But yes, it's all about you getting a little it's fine fine.
No, it's fine. Yeah, it's fine.
You've ruined it no more.
I don't even know if I want to talk about it anymore.
So what? Yeah, I'm just I'm going to go away now.
Star Wars, the trek and forces.
Wait, that's that's the what about who's who's losing more right now?
Trek or Doctor Who?
I mean, like money or viewership or quality, I guess, who in total?
Yeah. Oh, why you are not by quality, God knows.
I have to imagine Doctor Who in the UK,
I think they've they've dropped well below four million viewers now.
But like, yeah, that's what I heard, which is atrocious.
You know, I mean, even people who are like, you know, super woke and progressive.
I've heard them talking about it and they've been like, wow,
Doctor Who's kind of shit now, isn't it?
Like, yes, yes, it is how that happened.
I wonder.
I can change all of my settings for Efap again when a startup,
all the things I changed are now back to not being the way I wanted them.
Just use stream yards, man.
It's easier to this discord, OBS bullshit never works properly.
You're not actually wrong about that.
It is really fucking annoying.
Oh, do you find it reliable?
I know the fandom men is mostly user.
Yeah, it's fine.
I mean, it's like, you know, in terms of like ease of use, like can be can be better.
I've never had it crash on me or anything like that or slow down.
So on that.
Yeah, I just remember when we did a stream
and all you could see in the window was like the corner of the browser window.
It's like, oh, I can make it up for OBS like what the fuck is wrong with this?
Well, at least that stream went well.
It's all good. Wow. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I got to I got to I need like a little bit of a few minutes to fix this.
So if you're going to just carry on talking about like Star Trek or whatever.
But we try we try to do that.
And then you said, oh, let's let's let's do this live for your stream.
Well, now we got to talk about this.
Now we have to talk about you to fill air if the stream isn't live, can I?
Yeah, I guess we can talk about I don't know.
Uh, uh, y'all keep your phone in your front pocket or your back pocket?
Front pocket front.
Yeah, always in my left front pocket.
For some reason, it just feels natural that way.
Mine's always in my right, huh?
Because I always keep like loose change and stuff in my right one.
Just because I'm right handed, I can reach through it. I don't know.
Oh, how about that?
There we go. Rags, give us your insight into the great.
He has it in the back pocket.
Yeah, go for it, Rags.
Yeah, I normally keep mine in my back pocket.
I don't know. I just just sort of do it.
Do you ever worry that someone will sneak up behind you and rob you?
Sometimes, and I will transition it to my front pocket.
Every once in a while, but not normally, but every once in a while.
What kind of people do you find yourself around where you make that transfer?
Oh, black people.
We always knew that about you. Yeah.
On a more serious note, though, about Star Trek, I'm not actually
in any way connected to it, but maybe one day, maybe one day,
me and Rags can go through the entire thing.
How about that, Rags?
Have you been sitting there?
Yeah. Which ones?
All of the ones.
Just just watch TNG context, that video that they put out.
I did, actually, that's what you need.
But some crackers in there.
I just I love wharf just stood there like dressed in like Robin Hood clothes.
Like, I am not a merry man.
But yeah, I just I keep hearing bad things about Picard.
I'm like, what am I going to hear?
Good things about a modern version of a thing, you know?
The point I raised in one of my videos was right.
See with Picard now in terms of what they've done with his character.
You know, if you substitute his vineyard for like the shitty island
that Luke lives on and, you know, his wine for like that green alien titty milk,
then he is basically Luke Skywalker from like the Last Jedi.
You know, he's he's a guy who used to be awesome.
And now he's this kind of sad old man who who has had something bad happen
and then just kind of gave up on life.
I thought it was really funny in the in the the R11 video
where they show that clip where he's like, oh, I'm not an actor.
Like, I couldn't possibly.
And then in like the newest episode, he's like a pirate.
Yeah, a Russian pirate.
I was like, what the hell?
All right. Yeah.
That that was that was bizarre.
It's almost like, you know.
Improv acting studio with Patrick Stewart,
and it's like, what's what crazy shenanigans is he going to do this week?
You know, it's just the chance for him to just put himself into bizarre situations
without any real like thought for character consistency or anything.
They're they're bringing back more of the characters from what I've heard as well.
Right. Like more of the classic ones from TNG to get these episodes going.
What I think they do is like they give them a little guest spot
and they'll come in for one episode and then conveniently piss off by the end.
Like seven and nine.
Yeah, which was a really weird choice because it's like, you know,
Jerry Ryan is still hot as fuck, even though she's like 50.
But she and Picard never actually met before.
Like they've never been on the screen together.
So like the idea of them having this reunion just seems totally meaningless.
Like almost weird, I guess. Right.
You're like, oh, it's you.
Yeah, it's like like John Jobby Ray.
We're like, yeah, let's talk about all these crazy adventures
that we had off screen, you know.
Do you think Ray ever like sneezes and accidentally forced
lightning's people to death or something like that all the time? Surely.
Yeah, no disagreement there.
Wait, Mueller is a Star Trek fan. No, no, no, no, no, no.
I don't know anything. You know, that's according to Star Wars facts
that Ray had a holographic tutor on Insider 8080.
And that allowed her to learn how to pilot ships.
That's what I that's what I heard.
I mean, that is some genius writing like that right there.
So the explains everything.
I saw that tweet thread, right?
So that tweet went out from that account and then someone said,
so first of all, apparently different comments were being removed
and more than one person had linked my video
and that got removed from the tweets like hidden by the user.
And I was just like, yeah, it's fair enough.
So what else said?
If this is true, if she led all of this from like that computer
getting tutorials and stuff, how come she said, I don't know
when she was asked how she did all of it?
It's like it's because we made this shit up after exactly.
They made it up. They don't fucking know.
There's a new new thing.
Someone in the discord was directing me to this video
that was like the novelization of the rise of Skywalker, I guess.
Oh, my God. And it says it's from career.
It's from Kylo's POV when he first meets Palpatine.
And he says in the book explicitly that you could tell
this frail clone body was unable to contain the power of Palpatine
or something like that.
So apparently, according to the novelization,
he's absolutely a clone of Palpatine,
which just raises even more questions.
So why should you clone him?
Why make such a shitty clone?
Oh, not even just that, though.
It's just why should I believe he's dead?
He's just got another clone, surely.
Because the idea, apparently, is that his spirit
after getting exploded twice,
floated down to his clone facility, jumped into one of the.
And it's just like, why can you just do this forever?
It's like, no, Ray vaporized him.
It's like, did she vaporize his soul to you?
Can't just what about all the other clones that he probably has?
Yeah, I was waiting for an army.
It's a true truth.
He's probably downloaded into one of those
snook clones in a jar.
It's like, oh, well, that'll do. Yes.
What a nice case.
He's just going to sit chilling around in a bottle
for the rest of his life.
That's it. That was waiting until someone else comes by 100 years.
So keep them around in that jar.
Apparently, it's a dark empire that this happened.
And I'm just like some people were saying, like, it works.
It works in the oh, I've got something messed up in my description.
Thank you, chatter.
I will fix that in a moment.
The people like it worked in the in whatever other vision
that they did clones of Palpatine.
And I like expanded universe that Disney asked. Yes.
Did you copy it without copying it?
But I'm still fully in the camp that let him die.
Just let him die.
Let Palpatine die.
Make a new villain. Do whatever you want.
But in Palpatine clones, I don't.
There's a lot of problems that come with this.
Yeah, well, when people can just be, you know,
resurrected, well, you know,
like you say, there's no reason to believe that anyone's really dead.
And there's no reason to understand the nature of anyone.
Trailer for episode 10, it'll begin with data breathing and be like,
Oh, I was just thinking about that Star Wars fact site.
I'm sure these were the same people that put out a little info
by on Exogo, where they're like, did you know that Sith loyalists
indoctrinated the population of the planet to become servants?
And they're the people who crude the 10,000 star destroyers.
Like, well, like people live there.
It's like a barren desert that's in permanent darkness.
Corrupt minerals from the minerals.
I think my theory is on point.
They're eating snow clothes and generating shit tons of them.
They all just chow down all kinds of different versions of Snoke, Snoke,
cereal, Snoke, soup, Snoke on a spoon.
But if they're if they're from that planet, like, could you imagine
what kind of horrifying form life would have to take to survive there?
Like, it wouldn't look like a human.
Well, maybe they would be like a cave fish or something,
like some horrible, I'll be no slug thing.
But I don't want to help.
Doesn't want to be no slug fish.
I just want to be back to my sexy body.
I think it's indicative of how far it's gone.
When in Red Let Media's review, they were contemplating that
the emperor poofed all of that into existence with the force.
Yeah, that was their explanation.
That's the best they could come up with because of how ridiculous it is.
Like, that's where we're at, folks.
Yeah, when you're getting to the point where, you know,
there is no there's no resource constraints as we understand them.
There's no infrastructure for anything.
Stuff just appears whenever it's needed to like, OK, well,
there's no stakes for anything then because you can just make anything happen
if you need it to.
Well, yeah, it's like Ben dies to save Ray at the end,
but he'll be back probably.
Yeah, he'll be fine.
Death is at the end as we've established.
No, if Adam Driver has his way, he's done with that shit.
I was actually going to say the reason Kyla won't come back
isn't because of the narrative drive us better things to do
as if the narrative seems like it's not problems.
We don't have rules or anything. It's fine.
Don't worry about it.
In fact, I'm glad it happened.
And things could just happen.
You know, we've we've talked about how that film is the worst thing ever
and loads of people we previously disagreed with think it's the worst thing ever to.
And yet there are people out there who have made videos in defense of this movie.
And that is how I'm segwaying into in establishing.
Welcome to Efap 70 number six.
We're making a low.
I actually checked.
We're still on track for episode 100 being the two year anniversary of 77.
I can't believe we made it.
Oh, is this only seven of my retarded?
Seventy seventy five.
We made it three fourths of the way to a million.
I don't think that's how that works, but I'm going to agree with it now
because I didn't take a mathematic and bicentennial episode of Efap.
We're octogenarians now.
Did you know the mathematics in Welsh is mathematic?
Mathematic. Yeah.
Because they use eggs to count.
You know, so it just became shorthand of the easiest way to look at it.
Right. You just go.
So one egg plus another one egg equals. Yeah.
Simple.
Did you know that some animals can count?
Some animals can count.
I mean, some caters care.
I think I saw a video of like a swan counting its children, I think.
And someone was like, can swans count?
And it's almost like, I think they can.
They're going to take over.
That's just the first step.
One's counting its children.
They're airborne really short.
It's like think they're airborne without.
Yeah, swans figure out how to fly.
We are bone. Oh, shit.
Oh, my God.
By the way, swans are nasty assholes.
Yeah, well, you know, you know, you're in trouble.
Like a lot of that thread we're talking about that.
Like, I think there's a subreddit for it, too.
It was just like they're just assholes.
They get really angry.
Swans, swans, they're both dicks.
Yeah, they are.
Because there was this baby one that was stuck in some kind of fence
and a guy was trying to get it out.
And like the parent was just like, Brad started to attack him.
He was just like, hey, I go, geez, I can try and chill.
They just don't.
You're trying to eat my child is a delicious, tiny snack
to this new nutritious and good for you.
I know it's calm down and they'll they'll bite you
and they'll get up all in your business and they'll decide
that wherever you are is where they want to be.
And it's really they're just asshole creatures.
Yeah, you know, you don't feel bad.
I see that picture of a guy who was his dog was getting attacked
by a kangaroo and he comes in and just wallops it right in the face.
And it just looks at him like, try that again.
You're going down, son.
I just wondered, like, would that would that be a similar situation with swans?
Like, you try and hit it and it's just going to like bounce off it.
You suggest that we should watch a swan fight a kangaroo.
I'd love it.
Yeah, I think that's going to be someone needs to make that happen.
Humanity.
I was going to say, I may as well just get out of the way.
Introducing our our guests.
I'll start with our brand new guest, Mr.
Teal the hour.
I'm assuming that's how you like to go by unless you have one of them human names.
Well, it's normally just Teal the field.
There it is.
It depends how lazy you are about pronouncing it.
Fucking picture and everything.
I guess I'll go with told her.
There you go.
Hello. That sounds like a Welsh word.
Does it, though?
Told her. Told her. Told her.
Mathematic. Mathematic.
You've got to do the Welsh accent if you're going to say it.
Mathematic.
You've got to say Mathematic.
Mathematic. Mathematic.
OK, we get it there.
All right. All right.
OK. Hey, Drinky, you could appreciate this.
You've heard the Welsh accent, right?
I'm trying to teach these people graduands.
It's a really difficult accent to do for some reason, though.
I don't know. It's very that way.
No, no, you know, the Welsh are fine.
Yeah, the way the way they talk is fucking weird.
There's no denying it.
And then everyone gets to watch more, but more Gavin and Stacy,
so you can get a feel for the accent, you know.
Yeah, I'll do it.
That's like one of our biggest exports, probably.
Outside of Anthony Hopkins, Christian Bale.
They keep us on the bandwidth.
But yes, welcome to the first ever episode that you've been on.
I hope you're going to have fun.
You you prepped for this by checking out some Star Wars.
Let everyone know what you thought of the sequel trilogy.
How do you enjoy the Star War?
I wish I was dead.
Well, he loves it.
It's like the standard reaction I see.
Yeah, I I suppose I should explain for the audience.
I saw the rise of Skywalker for the first time on Thursday.
And then in preparation for this, I watched the entire sequel trilogy today.
And now I have no will to continue living.
Do you feel like your brain is getting raped by a man wearing a sandpaper condom?
Oh, no.
Wait, that would actually be pleasant by comparison.
You know, just just a nice big black dick in each year wrapped in sandpaper.
That would be preferable to watching the sequel trilogy.
See, we spread our misery out over three years, you know,
and just watching each of these as it hit the theaters.
And yeah, you've taken it all in one go.
That's just like a help group, you know,
a support group of recovering from what Disney have done.
Oh, my goodness.
Just discuss our our traumas.
Like, what did they do?
They destroyed Luke.
Yes, yes, they destroyed hyperdrive.
Yes, they destroyed the force.
Yes, yes. Yes. Oh, sorry.
So it's like they destroyed Jar Jar.
It's like, oh, well, no, he's fine.
He'll be fine for now.
Hooray.
I don't know how long Jar Jar will last.
I think I would actually rather watch a Star Wars story, Jar Jar,
than Rise of Sky Woke Up.
I think it would actually be better.
I mean, I'd find it funny as hell if they did it.
I'm actually sorry, Jar Jar story.
Would you? Yeah, it would just be the official backstory for him
where he goes and becomes a children's entertainer and dies of depression.
You remember the popularity of that that idea that he was Snoke, right?
And they were trying their best to justify.
It's like, I actually like unironically think if they had gone with that,
it would have been a better written story than what we got.
Jar Jar was Snoke.
And I would have described them as like so bold to do something like that.
Like, wow.
That really would have subverted my expectations.
If they really were super fucking hard to make it work.
You don't have to work hard if you subvert expectations.
Oh, yeah, it's true.
It all just sort of turns off at that point.
You know, skill.
But what can you do?
I guess this is the world we're in.
Stop complaining, everyone.
Just eat your slob.
It's just a movie about space wizards for children.
It's true.
What even like has been coming out recently?
We're still waiting for the year to pick up.
I'm in movies, but yeah,
there's kind of a call to review at the moment and it's starting to get really weird.
Like, I feel like I should review Parasite.
I just can't get around to it like.
Why do you hate Asians?
I hate subtitles.
Oh, no, I don't really.
Oh, it's going to be an interesting conversation, whatever.
Yeah, I think it's not the ideal viewing experience, but, you know,
it's enough to get by with if it's a good movie.
Yes, ideally, it's best to just know all languages.
Yeah, if we can just sort that out.
Get around to that at some point might be all right.
Where's that universal translator?
One day, one day.
Yeah, I suppose no reason not to get started
if unless anybody else wants to talk about anything in particular,
because I have now done setting everything up.
Talked about the card.
We talked about.
We did. Do we really have to talk about Rise of Skywalker?
Can't we talk about just anything else like
the state of municipal storm drains or something?
Go for it.
I want to hear your take on municipal storm drains.
Well, my opinion is on municipal storm drains.
They were pretty good initially because obviously a lot of the sewer system
in the UK came from sort of the 1900s after the industrial revolution
allowed for large scale brick manufacturing.
And of course, the way that the storm drains and well,
the entire drainage system at the time was constructed.
It was arranged around a projected population,
and we have now far exceeded that projected population,
which means in the next few decades,
there's either going to have to be a lot of work done at taxpayer expense
underneath very heavily developed residential and business areas.
Or we're going to start seeing a lot more backups and drain problems.
May even start contaminating drinking water.
I'm pretty concerned about that.
What would you say the the heyday of municipal storm drains was?
If you had to pick a decade where they were really nailing it?
Oh, probably 1910.
I think maybe 1920.
So they're well past their peak, then.
Absolutely.
Yeah, it goes to show how long they've lasted, though, right?
At least is that like some steady workmanship.
It's like the what is it, the 1911,
the gun that's been in like service for the longest time out of all guns, I think.
Rags, you. Yeah.
Uh, yeah, thank God we can talk about something else.
I found this topic really grating.
It.
Funnily enough, the first video on the docket is actually it is about stalls,
but it's also like I'm afraid Rags and I have seen this one already
because it's kind of infuriating, but it's from Wisecrack
and they are going to argue why we should be nice to the Star Wars sequel trilogy.
And their argument is going to surprise.
All right. It will surprise.
It's going to be fun stuff.
So I'm going to give you all the link in a moment once Watch Together behaves.
All right. There you go.
Teal, dear, have you used Watch Together before?
You know, it works.
Um, it sounds like something I've used.
I assume go in there and you can watch things at the same time as other people.
Yeah, we share the pause button.
We don't share the volume.
You can set yours to whatever you want.
Obviously, you pause it.
It was for all of us, that sort of thing. Very useful.
The show is not sponsored by Watch Together, though.
We would accept their patronage because they're wonderful.
The show is sponsored by Raid Shadow Legends.
They also hate Star Wars.
Rags, we will be the last people on this earth that are not sponsored
by Raid Shadow Legends if we have to be OK.
It's going to happen.
The revolution begins here.
It's it's infecting every YouTuber I watch.
It's like eventually they're just like, well, Quinta did it recently.
And I think like he was posting on Twitter about those people being like,
you sold out to Raid Shadow Legends.
He's like, what?
Oh, it's hilarious because like it's just the people.
I think it's it's it's associated now as a thing that you shouldn't shill
for, I guess, because it's shilled for so much.
Yeah, the only one I've been offered recently
that I actually quite liked was World of Warships.
And I was like, man, I actually like the idea of having my own battleship.
Quite good.
I want to see if.
Does anyone play Raid Shadow Legends like in on the planet?
I mean, wait, it's a game I've heard.
Anyone in chat, do you play it?
Because is it a lie?
Does no one play it?
Is it just actually a thing?
Is it just Russian bots?
Is that it?
It's bad, I mean, I wanted Jay to review it, he said he would.
Nope, no, no.
Apparently Jay has played it, though.
I did.
Oh, there is someone.
So how much money did you end up having to spend microtransactions to make it work?
One of the ads are like,
you can pay to skip like loads of the gameplays.
You can pay to fucking not play this video game.
Oh, great.
When you've been tricked into that, that's when you're in trouble.
You need to reevaluate like why you even play games in the first place.
Like, I don't know, I that's like, you know, if you go to the end cinematic,
go to the theater by ticket for a movie.
And then before you go into the actual theater, this guy says, you know,
for an extra $9.99, you don't have to watch this movie.
And you're like, you know what?
That sounds pretty good.
If it's a Disney Star Wars movie, I would take that off.
Yeah, that's money well spent.
Hey, that's a I saw someone in chat ask it.
I'm going to I'm going to do a variation of the question.
Let's say Star Wars episode 10 was coming out and the trailer looked awful
and that they brought back Vader, all this other stuff.
And then Disney emailed you.
And this applies to the whole panel here to show for the movie.
How much would they have to offer before you'd say yes?
More than my channel is actually worth
because I would lose like 98% of my subscribers, I think.
What do you reckon?
I mean, it depends on what the show is, I guess.
So let's go in full throttle.
You have to say, I love this movie.
I've had an early screening.
It's incredible.
The writing is impeccable.
They take this.
They respect the everything about Star Wars fully.
They fix all the problems.
They appreciate the fans.
The acting is amazing.
Every every element of filmmaking is amazing.
What would it take for you to say that?
I don't think I don't think any amount of money could honestly.
Yeah, I would just say no.
I'd be like, nah, I'll be fine.
You guys go ahead.
It's like, no, I think my integrity is worth more than anything you do.
One thing I will say is if they offered something like one point two billion,
you can actually be like depending on your contract,
you can do it and then be like, right, I'm going to go and invest this
in all kinds of like charities and to help the world
in really significant ways if you get to that level of money.
And I think what I would have to do is I would have to take the bullet
and say, I want everything.
I want full control of everything for ever.
So I could literally let all of your stock, everything, the entire company
is mine. Yeah, because that way it could be like, right, that's it.
Now I am shutting down your your Star Wars division.
You are not allowed to do anything ever again.
Just that I would use it to destroy Disney
and everyone could hate me as much as it was.
But at least after that, I could be like, look, guys, I'm so sorry, but
it was in service of the greater good.
Just fucking.
Yeah, I think that's why I would be like Thanos at the end of Infinity War.
You're just like, yeah, Shaq somewhere like, you know, I've done good.
Yeah, it would be.
It's like, you know what I have to do here?
You have to give me a thing.
I'm going to rend your company down to the final.
I sure as hell accept this.
They made me CEO of Disney afterwards because I'd be like, oh,
we're going to make some changes.
Lance, here we go.
It's like every single remake of Disney classic movies
would put them on hold.
It's like, oh, no.
I'd be like, but I heard.
I read some place that for this Mulan remake
that they were taken like Sheng's character,
the love interest guy.
They're splitting him into two different characters
because they feel like Disney feels in the age of me, too.
And having a female with a like a superior
that's also a love interest just wouldn't be appropriate for these times.
So they're just turning his character
into two completely different characters now.
Hooray.
This this movie's just got when written all over it.
Like they finished filming it or is it being filmed now?
Well, the trailer is so I assume it's it's done filming
because like this might go down as
like something of if it fucks up enough,
it'll finally make Disney bleed in the remakes department
because they're obviously bleeding all over the place with Star Wars.
The MCU is on rocky ground, but the Disney originals being remade
seem to be like immune to losing money, but this one could be the one.
Well, I mean, the original wasn't a big success, was it?
Like that was one of their their few failures was Mulan.
Was it?
I mean, I don't think it made like much money for them back in the day.
So you basically got a live action remake of a movie
that wasn't particularly popular to begin with.
And now you're you're woke of fine as well.
So it doesn't really scream like success to me.
You know, it could be another fun one.
Going back to the shilling for the new Disney saying in your contract
is sort of anything else.
I want you to make a remake of Song of the South
and be completely true to the original.
Don't change anything.
Duh, slavery.
See what would happen.
So Mulan's budget was 90 million and it made 300 million.
So, yeah, it's that's probably low for Disney standards, I guess.
But I guess it's still made a profit.
It's just, yeah, it'll be interesting to see how it does.
I don't know what to find out.
Yeah, I need to I want to find out if Lady and the Tramp
like lost some money or anything like that, because the reviews for that.
Remember that that just sort of flew under the radar.
It's just sort of disappeared and kind of ridiculous that it's out.
Yeah, but it it was not reviewed very well at all.
And it looked terrible based on the trailer that I saw.
But I think it's like a Disney plus thing.
So I'm not sure.
I guess if it's Disney plus, do they release like budget and
I don't know, anything really about I'm trying to find it now.
And it's like, well, it used to be like direct DVD sequels kind of thing.
Yeah, I wonder if like all of that is actually not stuff we can find out.
I'm really surprised they wouldn't have just tried to
release that as a full thing.
I guess they really want people to use Disney plus.
They'll release Lady and the Tramp.
Oh, sorry. It's not yet.
Adventure. It's on March 24th.
I was not even out.
Yeah, just under a month and that's coming out.
See, we thought it was out.
Release date November 12th, 2019.
Oh, well, the one I've got says coming soon, March 25th, 2020.
Maybe that's coming somewhere else for Lady and the Tramp.
Yeah, yeah, in the U.S.
It's November 12th.
Yeah, maybe that that is.
Oh, yeah, maybe it is the the U.K., it gets released. OK.
Yeah, that's the 25th of March.
That's that's when Disney Plus goes live in the U.K., isn't it?
Ah, that makes sense.
So, yeah, so I guess it was limited by that.
We've already been underwhelmed over here, but now you can look forward to it.
Hooray. Let's watch it.
I am excited.
It'll be great.
But yeah, I guess we can we can begin watching this wonderful video then.
It'll be a. So this is called
Star Wars, an apology. Don't.
I'm sorry, I feel like I have.
I think that they have a lot to apologize for. I agree.
Oh, yeah, well, I feel like this video or four.
Let's make sure it's working for everybody.
This video is brought to you by.
Right. Did that show up for everyone?
Yes. Yeah, this is my favorite part.
But this is also Wisecrack Edition.
Yeah, we were by honey.
We've I think we've we've we've watched.
Is it two Wisecrack videos over the course of the fab is either one or two.
They have some interesting ideas to put it that way, I think.
Right. We have one one.
It was a Game of Thrones one.
Wasn't it on something else?
Or was it again?
It was about the middle.
The reason they don't like Game of Thrones is because people like them.
Yeah, that was the one with the the ad for the Walking Dead game
that they play all the time.
And if you get it, then you could play with your favorite YouTubers, which is us.
Oh, that's Raid Shadow Legends.
Also, yeah, Drake heard one of these Wisecrack videos.
They argue that the reason people did like the idea of Game of Thrones
is because people don't like it when things end.
Yeah, that's totally it, guys.
They spent a really long time on it.
They talk about like the almost the history of like entertainment to a degree.
They even go back to like colosseums and stuff.
Their grasp of human psychology is firm.
Well, I just like is it possible that it's just really poorly written?
It's like, you know.
But yeah, they're going to explain to us
why we need to apologize to Star Wars, you guys excited?
Can't wait.
I'm very excited.
Let me actually turn on my AC and I'll be right back because I can't.
No problem.
I'm going to get another drink actually before we start this an alcoholism drink.
Yeah, I've got the kraken out tonight.
So if you do it, I'm going to have to drink something right.
I'll leave you alone.
All right.
I'm ready for you.
You got any beers?
No, I had one before I came.
I actually don't have any here.
I have another drink.
I don't have any beers.
Should I have some?
Well, if you're going to be drinking, then I do.
Are you like actually your character?
Do you actually drink all the time?
Probably more than I should.
I I like having you on.
It gives me an excuse to drink.
That sounds awful out of context, doesn't it?
Then again, I'm pretty sure Rags will give me an excuse to drink one beer.
And I feel like I'm several pints of vodka behind him.
You know, shit, man.
Now, I figure with last time I was sick.
Now I want to have a an efap where I am lucid and focused,
relatively healthy, where I can really devote myself
to just the content we're going through without alcohol getting in the way.
Very well.
Even though I kind of want to.
Oh, my God, someone in chat said I am and three is worse than Captain Marvel.
Ooh, that's a hot take.
I don't know if I agree with that.
Captain Marvel's one of the worst things
right to get that move.
But now I don't like I'm on three.
This was anyway, let's kick on.
This is going to be wonderful and exciting by honey.
This video sponsored by insect vomit.
Their intro, how could you say that?
Hey, Wisecrack, Michael, you're ready to hear the darkest abyss of all arguments
about Star Wars, the rise of Skywalker burst into theaters
and perhaps unsurprisingly, left public opinion more split than Darth Maul.
Like the last Jedi before.
See, he got split in half, guys.
That's what that reference means.
All you Star Wars fans.
Why did you why?
Well, I just feel like most people would know how Darth Maul dies.
What a strange edit.
It's just like, we should play the clip where Darth Maul is cut in half
in case they don't get it is a case they forget.
I think tells you everything you need to know about them, about their audience.
Super we can't just say it.
We have to show it because I don't think that they might have seen it.
His visual matched the thing he said.
That's such good editing.
I mean, I'm fine with it.
If they just didn't show the clip, they didn't need it.
Well, what do I know?
For it, the rise of Skywalker seems to be a love it or hate it kind of film.
Does it?
I don't think I've heard anyone say they love this film.
There is one person I've seen say I love it,
and it's actually one of the potential videos where you might respond to in future.
Oh, my God.
But it's the second video on the playlist.
Then yes, when we'll get to in the future.
I mean, all videos we get to are going to be in the future, Mahler.
What about once we don't get to?
No, all the videos that we're going to get to are going to be in the future.
Well, that could be in the past.
Why not?
Because that's not how time works.
Well, technically, they are all in the past because they will already exist.
So the videos are actually in the past now.
Your article videos that we're going to look at some point in the future
that haven't been made yet.
They're not yet in the past.
So we agree everything is simultaneously in the past and future.
Just all time is
like time is like a river,
a flower river circle.
The point was, I don't I don't think this is what we I would have.
We can see it as shit.
TLJ was loved.
Sure. And it was hated.
Sure. Rise of Skywalker.
I think that was just hated or people were apathetic.
I don't think anybody loved it, right?
Yeah, I think apathy was probably the main one.
I don't I don't think people vehemently hated it.
It was just more like, no, just shit.
Well, way less people love the Rise of Skywalker than love
the Last Jedi. Yeah, for sure.
There's still some interesting people who think that the Last Jedi is good
and they love it.
It was only like a month before we saw Rise of Skywalker
that we checked out a brand new video talking about how good TLJ was.
Like, they just they'll be making those videos probably to the end of time.
Rise of Skywalker people, though, they'll they'll peter out within the next month,
probably. Well, unless one of these amazing videos, you know,
has all the reasons why this could happen.
You know, or unless Star Wars just fucking apologizes for the price.
Star Wars should be apologizing to.
No problem. Is George Lucas?
We're going to pay you to apologize on our behalf.
As Jedi before it, the Rise of Skywalker seems to be a love it or hated kind of
film, regardless of which camp you fall into, though,
there are probably some choices in the movie that irk you.
Maybe it was the new narrative reveals or maybe it was the way the film handled
or mishandled the choices of the previous installments.
But what if all of these arguments miss the real point?
Oh, my goodness.
Only us at Wisecrack are smart enough to understand the real issues
of the Rise of Skywalker.
Well, explain them to you.
It's interesting because I feel like he's speaking to both camps right now,
like the the ones that think the film just doesn't make any sense
and the ones that think it contradicts T.L.J.
They're almost the two people he just referenced.
And he's like, maybe you're both wrong.
It's like you want to take on both of those camps at the same time.
OK, you want to be enlightened alt centrist fence sitter that everyone hates.
I mean, he's going further than that.
He's saying that it's actually good.
Oh, my. He's on the opposite side of the fence shouting at us for being,
you know, he's going to bring us over, though.
I'm going to get the man's making friends.
Not as a series of good and bad choices designed to make us eternally rage,
but as part of a long storytelling tradition.
That is to say, what if we view Star Wars as an epic?
And could Dustin Austin King as a storytelling tradition of producing shit?
Hey, man, if they've made it a tradition,
if we view it as an epic,
well, the first question we all have is like to fight epic, please.
Well, wasn't that a movie?
What epic is that a movie?
Yeah, wasn't that like a fairy movie or something?
Not a movie about gay people, like with like they wrote on like owls and stuff.
Fairy movie.
Like, I don't know. Epic movie.
Epic movie. Oh, epic movie appeared of.
Yeah. Not the one from 2007.
It's which one you're talking about.
What is is it the one from 2013?
Yes, from 2013.
Remember that I remember like of it.
I don't know. It was called Epic movie.
Yeah, it was. No, no, no.
It was called Epic. Oh, in low and lower case.
Oh, here, here, here.
Let me let me paste it right there.
You remember this?
Yeah, I'm hummingbirds.
They're like little elf people.
Oh, I I didn't even know this existed.
Yeah, I still remember it and don't remember it.
Epic. So what does that say?
A teenager finds herself transported to a deep forest setting
where a battle between the forces of good and the forces of evil is taking place.
Oh, my God. Jay is in this movie.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, Jay's going to fuck you up, dude.
Sorry, sorry.
Oh, OK. Oh, my goodness.
Epic. Jay, Jay, Jay seems on board, actually.
It does.
Well, at least at least you can always see Jay.
So let's move on. All right.
I just wanted to I just I don't know if I was.
It's one of those movies that I almost think is like a figment of my imagination.
I was like, did this, like, did this? Yeah, it's just a film.
If I just combining like four other movies in my head, it called it epic.
I'm not sure you should know better than to use the word epic
when being being responded to by you, you know,
drinking you there for that, right?
Yes, less daily.
I'm going to sue for you to let you.
Oh, my. Anyway, yes.
To say, what if we view Star Wars as an epic
and could dusting off some King Arthur manuscripts help us finally come to terms
with the sequel trilogy as a whole?
Let's find out in this one kid.
Does King Arthur hold the key to why Star Wars isn't acting?
King Arthur is going to be OK.
King Arthur is like, please do y'all.
Please do.
I have read the Mabinogion a few times.
Now, please, please link this to that.
I feel like this will be a thorough explanation of how
King Arthur explained Star Wars good.
I know this movie does suck, sir.
How do you look, dude, look how their faces kind of line up,
though they don't. But look.
So good on the rise of Skywalker and heads up.
Spoiler alert for pretty much all of Star Wars ahead.
But before we get into that, I got to give it up to honey.
Honey is the I got to give it up to honey.
Give it up to honey, boy.
Look at that. Add to Chrome.
It's free.
It's like I think you need to start.
I think Raid Shadow Legends ruined saying it's free.
It's free.
But best of all, it's free.
And best of all, it requires no commitment whatsoever.
Free browser extension that automatically applies discounts to see.
Honey is really great.
And everyone should have honey installed.
I imagine it probably is.
And it totally you're going to have a serious moment here.
Not like the constellation, but like grave.
Yeah, serious, serious black you could have gone with as well.
Serious black.
He was white, though.
The Harold Potter character.
Harold Potter.
Is his name actually Harold?
Like in canon, I'm not sure for it would work as well with it.
Is Harry really Harold?
You're a wizard, given me
is Harry Potter's name, Harold?
No, it's just Harry. Oh,
it's like when he was born, his dad was like, oh, he's Harry.
That's it.
They don't even ask for clarification.
They're like, Harry, it is.
They stabbed his big certificate.
And they're like, no, no, no.
It's like, no, no vaccines for the doctors, no vaccines.
You all heard it. He said it.
There's one thing you all don't know about me.
It's how much I like your baby.
You can never see them for obvious reasons.
But trust me when I say I have some really fun shoes.
Anyways, this means I like to look online and see what's new for my favorites.
Ladies, if a man tells you he has fun shoes, run away, run away.
He'll be able to chase them with his fun shoes.
Sure, please.
When I finally purchased a new pair, I use honey.
This is going to be like the first 12 minutes of the video.
I'm sure it won't exceed who buys shoes online.
Don't you need to like wear them to see if they feel good?
I guess as long as you've got your sizes right, you can just hope.
I'll just assume that's comfortable.
Braggs, rebellions are built on hope.
Hope is like the sun.
It's that called it burns you.
Hope is like the sun.
If it wasn't for the atmosphere, it would murder you in the most terrible,
horrible way imaginable.
It's like everyone's just curious.
Like, what about hurting yourself?
What do they try to say about hope with that?
So that it's terrible.
If honey is unable to find a code, they usually offer me gold
that I can apply towards gift cards to other stores online.
And so they have been used.
Get gold from the goblin.
Honey gives you gold.
Not just internet gold, real gold.
Oh, real gold and nuggets.
Save on your favorite sites, too.
They support over 30,000 online stores.
I just like to fuck at Walmart and even Domino's.
They're. Whoa. Domino's.
Whoa. Even Domino's, the niche company you've probably never heard of.
I imagine that's quite the appealing.
Even Domino's.
Do you think the reason he said that is to make everybody
who regularly eats pizza from Domino's to think like, oh, my God,
they appeal to me like I'm like the only person who regularly gets Domino's.
Even Domino's like surely that'd be one of the more popular ones.
There is no reason not to check it out.
Honey is a laundromat.
And the subscribers over 27,000.
Whoa. Whoa.
Can I get the gold from honey in Rachel?
And you can receive this in bars of gold.
The bars of gold.
We'll mail it to you for free.
You're like, damn, this is a good deal.
Thousand dollars.
We just give you money to install.
So there is no reason not to check it out.
All right.
Join honey dot com slash Wisecrack today to start safe.
That's Joe.
So go to Joe in honey dot com.
Joe in honey.
I'm Joe, I know, honey.
You open up the website.
This is a person drowning in honey.
Like, whoa, I'm Joe, help me.
My name's Joe.
Hang in there, Joe.
Hard it is to tread, honey.
Why did you feel the need to tell us your name, Joe?
He's a sticky boy.
And they're going honey dot com.
Do you remember what this video was about?
Star Wars.
Keep thinking about Joe and honey.
Back to the show.
It sounds like it's really better.
Sorry, he's come back to the house.
It's join honey dot com slash Wisecrack.
Now back to the show.
Well, the sequels were generally better received than the prequels.
I don't know about that.
I don't know about that.
Like, it's kind of hard to be definitive.
But if like if you guys were to guess whether or not the prequels
or the sequels were better received, which one would you put your money on?
Prequels prequels based on merchandise sales, if nothing else.
I mean, from memory, I know it's from the from like the perspective
of a small child, a small little doggo.
But man, my imagination went wild with the prequels.
I just I wanted the toys.
I went to the characters.
I wanted to know what was up.
I was like, oh, it's like a whole new Star Wars.
And it's oh, man, in fact, a lot of people will tell you
that the Phantom Menace was well received for a while.
And Chris Stuckman does that thing where he talks about how, like,
everybody didn't realize everyone was I think he calls it Phantom Menacing.
It's the process of being like you haven't come to terms
with how bad a thing is yet or whatever.
But if you compare, like, I would give you Force Awakens happily,
even though at this point it's kind of diminished.
But everyone knows TLJ was incredibly divisive.
And then if I can rise a Skywalker, like, that just got shat on by everybody.
Like, critic wise, I don't like it.
Comparatively, Revenge of the Sith was quite I'm not going to say
critically acclaimed, but enjoyed from my perspective anyway.
I think the difference is that, like, there really wasn't social media
back then like we have now.
So it's hard to know how that would have fanned the flames back then.
I think it would have been a bit different how it would have been received.
But yeah, I still think the the prequels were better received
overall than the sequel trilogy.
Interesting.
But he seems so sure of it.
I wonder what the metric he's going by would be.
Tom slash Wisecrack.
Now back to the show.
Well, the sequels were generally better received than the prequels.
Yeah, I'd be curious to read this article from Screen Rant.
Oh, yeah, let's let's get a pause.
Now back to the show.
Well, the sequels.
The Star Wars, I linked it in the in the discord.
I'm curious if they allow if Screen Rant allows comments.
More and more sites stop allowing comments
because they're calling out the bullshit all the time.
It doesn't seem like they're.
So are they citing their own article unless it has like, you know,
Screen Rant, is that like part of Wisecrack?
Oh, maybe not. Sorry.
I think I think I just saw the color and I was just the color scheme.
Yeah. OK. Yeah.
Well, my second point was going to be it wouldn't even matter if it wasn't this.
If the article doesn't actually cite anything metric, I guess.
Imperial, I should have said.
Imperial, what am I looking for?
Something that isn't someone thought this empirical.
That was the one of the.
Irrigal.
Yes. Sorry, Screen Rant.
That's they suck, don't they?
Are they like the worst?
Isn't that so? I think J's respect.
Yeah, I don't even like it.
It's just some rag.
Yeah, I click bait bullshit.
And then I am reading this this here.
Star Wars, The Last Jedi is the most divisive movie of the Star Wars saga,
mostly because of its choices around certain characters and its writing in general.
Taking a step away from the script for a moment, it's again clear
that this is on another level as a Star Wars film,
not since the Empire strikes back as the saga been so visually stunning.
The throne room action sequence
in an inventive lightsaber fight with indelible imagery.
Whoa. I had to look up indelible because no one knows what that fucking word means.
It means not able to be forgotten or removed,
as in like weapons from people's hands in post.
I say it's a this is this is a bad article based on this one paragraph.
I'm calling it.
So what are they what are they appealing to then as a whole?
Just that, well, if we want to I'll look at their little bullet points, I guess,
how Disney has caused the prequels reassessment.
The Star Wars prequel still have too many problems.
And they have Disney's Star Wars sequels are much better movies
and they show a screenshot from the throne room scene
where Ray is kicking three people with her one foot.
It's not just that she also deflects their lightsabers
because they kind of all go in at the same time.
She parries the blow.
So she is strong enough to withstand three guys twice for size,
hitting her all at the same time, just with her own strength.
And then she kicks them away.
The problem is bad enough that they all aim to the same spot.
So the fact that she was able to hold them all there as well.
It's like, wow.
Well, that's just that's just what you do in melee combat.
You actually aim for the other person's weapon. Mm hmm.
So I saw you nail it.
Even if the weapons on the floor need to go for that weapon,
even if the weapon disappears, which is very common in the Star Wars universe,
unfortunately, I just hope it doesn't happen to you at the worst times.
That's that's when it gets really bad.
But yeah, I think it's safe to conclude that the sequel trilogy
is has been received worse.
And if you wanted to say that's because of social media,
I wouldn't even necessarily disagree.
I should be like, OK, but it's still the truth, right?
Prequels feel like if I was an emperor man, person, clone,
whatever the fuck Snoke is, who knows?
I would want my my elite guards to have like guns.
I don't know.
Makes sense. I feel like, you know, it's call me stupid.
Not not to bring up something slightly unrelated,
but they do this in Star Trek Picard as well, where there's a character
who's got a sword, not even a lightsaber that can deflect
laser blasts or whatever.
Just an actual metal sword.
And he's the guy they recruit because they need help.
I need someone to fight for him.
It's like they can deflect phases.
No, it's just a sword.
Like literally, if you tell that up to a phaser blast, it would just get vaporized.
Well, it's cool, though, right?
That's it. It's just it looks cool visually.
And you get to slice people's heads off with it.
So that's that's all that matters.
There you go.
Those were generally better received than the prequels.
They've still attracted an array of criticisms.
Fans and critics alike have been over a lack of originality
and apparent disrespect to what came before.
Apparent. Apparent.
Yet it only seems that way, guy.
It's just that it's an overabundance of fan service
and a lack of character development for friends, both old and new.
This ongoing discourse is manifested.
Well, it's not so much the lack of development as in like subtracting
all the development they did.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, it was funny because Rich Evans described Han Solo
in The Force Awakens as he hadn't changed since the end of the OT.
And I was like, but he did know he's he's regressed.
He's a new hope on Solo, but incompetent.
Like they've undone his development
because he's like kind of an asshole, he's kind of crotchety.
And he's also a smuggler again with no connections to like,
you know, fucking people outside of Chewie.
And for some reason, he's not even good at his job.
People outside of Chewie.
I mean, you couldn't do it with that, how you want.
So like for their marriage apart,
you could happen to have a side of Chewie to do that.
So it spends a lot of time inside of Chewie with us.
Another another matter.
Yeah, like I would say they regressed him.
They gave him counter development, if you want to call it that.
And then Luke, they, they, whoa, whoa.
You want to go in there?
And then Leia is someone, I guess you could say, kind of stayed the same.
I don't know. They just didn't do much with Leia.
It's hard to tell.
She's got no personality and she does nothing through any of the movies.
Pretty much.
You hugged Chewie once, maybe twice.
Yeah, she talked to Han about getting a new jacket.
Yeah, that was something that happened.
Increasingly less impressive box office earnings
for each installment of the series.
With all that said, so be natural.
That's insane.
It is. It is because we could be looking at an alternate universe where,
you know, episode nine got like, you know, three to four billion.
There's no reason why I couldn't have.
The domestic for Star Wars, episode nine was only five hundred nine million.
I say only.
That's like how much solo and in total, didn't it?
Does it cost like over three hundred million?
But it, yeah, from episode five, seven,
seven, the Force Awakens to episode nine, the Rise of Skywalker,
they basically just cut their earnings in half. Mm hmm.
And the biggest jump by far was between Force Awakens and TLJ.
Yeah, and that that opened big, didn't it?
Because the expectation was there.
Oh, yeah, I still remember when I went off a cliff after that.
All of us were like, because after finishing the Force Awakens,
there was such a like a hope for what was to come in terms of all this new stuff.
And it all just got executed immediately in the next film.
It was like, oh, and then
you sort of lose appreciation for those things anyway.
The blurb for The Last Jedi here.
Ray develops her newly discovered abilities with the guidance of Luke Skywalker.
Like, no, she doesn't know that even that's a fucking lie.
Is that why are you lying to me?
Where they they ask Mark Hamill, what?
What was it like training Ray in the new film?
This is before Last Jedi came out.
And he was like, maybe I don't even trade it. You don't know.
I was just like, oh, my God, because he doesn't.
The warning signs were there.
Mark was trying to warn us of this.
Yeah, I think that if everyone had loved The Last Jedi,
he probably would have been saying more.
But it was it was so much shit getting slung in it anyway.
He was probably like, OK, all right.
It looks like people understand.
I'm going to bow out.
Interesting. Interesting to read the rest of the blurb here.
It's like she gets trained under the guidance of Luke Skywalker,
who is unsettled by the strength of her powers.
Yep, that's what passes for character development.
Like, she's too strong and too awesome for Luke to handle.
Do you remember?
I just love point this out.
It's like I wasn't scared enough there, but but I am now or something like that.
It's like, what do you mean? You tried to kill him in his sleep.
It sounded like you were pretty afraid of his power.
You remember that joke and mess this up.
Hope is so funny.
If he immediately tried to kill Ray after that training sequence,
he was like, you're the next Kylo Rad, but not again, Luke.
It didn't work last time.
She becomes dark from that.
We're like, oh, I can commit Luke.
What is sorry?
I didn't realize that all of it was stupid.
Meanwhile, the resistance prepares for battle with the first order.
Like, no, they're running away the whole time.
No, that's they're just preparing for battle.
OK, you know, it starts off with a battle.
They're preparing for the battle of Crete.
That's what the whole movie is doing.
Yeah, it makes total less impressive box office earnings
for each installment of the series.
With all that said, it'd be natural to have a somewhat pessimistic view
for the future of the Star Wars franchise with a warring fan base,
a burned out audience and sketchy corporate overlords.
Is Star Wars doomed?
We're going to go ahead and say, nah.
And not just because we're reckless optimists.
That's because the so-called problems that have and likely will continue
to plague Star Wars aren't new at all.
It could even be argued that our biggest complaints about Star Wars aren't flaws.
In fact, they're firmly established aspects of epic storytelling.
By epic, we not only mean the.
How do you even justify this is like the flaws are good.
They're in. That's that's just how it works.
You're like, what are you?
Because I'm saying this.
He hasn't made his argument yet, but I'm just like, oh, man,
this is going to be tough.
It's going to be a tough one.
This isn't going to be another one of the other stories have flaws.
Therefore, these flaws are fine idiots, is it?
I just I don't know.
He's going to be like, you know, in these in these epics,
there was lots of plot holes and character contradictions.
So it's OK that everyone.
Yeah, there there were like, especially in the.
So there are things that make no sense.
And people do just go to some weird places sometimes.
So those classic stories, like these epic tales,
like is it not just a result of them the way they were recorded?
Like they were they were quite often memorized verbatim.
And then, yeah, yeah, a lot. Yeah.
Story tells and they would put their own embellishments on it.
And what you end up with is a completely, you know, hodgepodge
of like different variations from from each storyteller.
But that's that's not what movies are.
Yeah, like that's that's why there's so many
not only variations of the stories, but why so many of the epic tales
of old are actually very, very similar.
There's something it was actually written by.
I want to say it was young, but there are a few other people
who have sort of expanded upon this idea.
And the idea is that when stories get transmitted through generations,
although they change, certain key beats stay the same.
And so what you end up with is basically a story
that has a sort of universality to it across time.
So whereas all the little details may change and some of them may update
sort of the core parts, like sort of core story arcs
for characters and whatnot stays the same.
And this speaks to a sort of human universal way of understanding things.
Like if you would teleport to an alien universe
and you retold the story of Star Wars, the original trilogy,
you'd probably change a bunch of details.
And then a kid that listened to you grew up
and did the exact same thing in a different alien universe.
It would keep changing.
But most of the significant parts would probably be the same.
Yeah, it would still be, you know, the the downtrodden,
shitty, stupid farm boy realizes he has a destiny.
He grows up, he confronts his destiny, and then he becomes a hero.
But you can change everything else about that.
But those core elements will remain the same
because they speak to people everywhere of all times.
Yeah, I think to some extent as well, there's a process of elimination there.
If you do certain things with the character,
then you start to remove the audience's appreciation for that character
and you reduce their likability.
Like if your character, instead of being a downtrodden farm boy
or whatever it might be, starts off as like an all powerful king.
People aren't going to empathize with that person
because they're already at the top of the heap.
You know, all these things they have to do
in order to build up your investment in the story and the characters.
It is that kind of process of elimination.
That's why you end up with that hero's journey
because it's kind of the slickest way to get that emotional response out of your viewer.
Also, Jay said, I come sorry.
Is he trying to say that's what this person is?
Because Jay, that's mean.
Okay. Very, very mean.
I wanted to make sure I highlighted how he's possibly the worst of the Efap people.
In terms of insult throwing, do you agree Rags?
Because I think so.
He's not very, it's not very good.
Not very nice.
Long narrative poems like Beowulf and the Odyssey,
but the other non-poem stories that resemble them
and have a knack for being retold over and over again.
First, let's get the similarities between the Skywalker saga
and historical epics out of the way.
Star Wars has captured our collective attention for more than 40 years
and there's every reason to assume that it will continue to be passed down
from generation to generation.
Much like the tales of-
Um, but-
Is this going anywhere?
But the OT was, let's just say for the sake of argument,
given to my parents in the theater.
And then when I came of the right age,
I saw those very same films with minor remastering differences,
assuming I didn't see the originals.
And then if my kid grew up to the right age,
I could then show them the DVD or Blu-ray of A New Hope.
That isn't the same as like spanning generations of stories being told,
Yeah, you get the same story because it's in a hard, fast state.
Like it can't change from what it is.
And if, I don't know if he's going this way,
but if he was arguing that like the sequel trilogy is the original retold,
I'd just be like, nah, it's a sequel, but it's a really bad sequel.
Like it's not this, it's not the OT again.
They came close to trying that,
but Rian Johnson wanted to go a different way.
And then Rise of Skywalker,
I don't even know what film you'd say it's copying outside of a couple of scenes.
That plot line, man.
Bold.
The story and its characters are so thoroughly integrated into pop culture
that everyone knows what Darth Vader sounds like when he breathes.
Or what a lightsaber is, even if you've never seen a Star Wars movie.
It's kind of like how, even if you've never read Homer or Virgil,
you know what an Achilles heel or Trojan horse is.
But that's not the only way the Skywalker saga mirrors ancient epics.
That's a very thin comparison.
You could do that with loads of shit.
Yeah, you know what something is.
Therefore, it's the same as these other.
I'm trying to think of like something obscure.
I guess he's trying to really say that, see, lightsabers are like in Vader's breathing.
They're like the phrases Trojan horse and Achilles heel.
One's just had a head start by a few years.
Just a few.
Yeah, but the problem is he's comparing pop culture elements to things which,
how do I want to phrase this?
What's the term for a phrase that actually sort of has a bigger meaning?
Like barking up the wrong tree.
There is a name for that kind of phrase.
Idioms or metaphors.
I think it might be idiom.
Yeah, he's comparing something which is just like a motif basically to something
which is there to transmit an idea.
Like you say something is a Trojan horse.
There's a whole bigger thing to something which you just recognize as,
like they're not comparable.
Yeah, like a lightsaber versus like the equivalent of that would probably just be,
I don't know, bow and arrow from something like the older stories as opposed to a lesson
or an identifiable aspect through a selection of words that just came from that thing.
It's a strange comparison, but even with that, you know, that's a very thin connection.
Yeah, it's also you're comparing things to something that you're comparing.
Something which is basically stories which are told to people again,
because there's a degree of universality to it.
And they have the point of telling them is to make people learn something like the point
of the story of the Trojan horse is that, you know, things may not be what they appear.
And sometimes what seems like it can be a good thing is actually a bad thing.
Because obviously the horse, it was a gift.
It was like, Oh, we're going to have peace.
And here is this amazing sculpture.
And it was full of people that killed everyone when they got out.
So there's a big lesson there, as opposed to a lightsaber.
It's like, okay, we're in Trojan horse, there are some people out there
who are out there that might not even know anything about Trojan horse beyond like,
it's it's virus.
Yeah, they don't know.
It's they don't know that it's from, you know, the Odyssey.
Yeah, they don't know the Odyssey, but they know the meaning.
They might even be able to tell you what it means as a result of reading that story,
but have no idea that story.
The Iliad, sorry, not the Odyssey, the Iliad, but they don't know that it's about,
you know, the Trojan War.
And they don't know.
And comparatively, if you ask someone and they do know what a lightsaber is,
chances are they know what Star Wars is, and that it comes from that.
Comparatively, Achilles heel, what stories that from most people be like,
uh, the one with Achilles, they'll probably say Troy.
Yeah, they'll probably say Troy, and then they'll be referencing the movie.
If they reference anything at all, they might be like, I don't know,
it just means a weakness, right?
Well, even if it was from Troy, I mean, that's still sort of, that's the story.
It borrows classic epic storytelling techniques as well.
And I guess before we go forward, I'm wondering what aspect of the sequels
is going to transcend time.
Actually, you know what, there is one, I've just thought of one.
A more accurate comparison would be to say comparing the Trojan horse to the
Holdo maneuver.
You say Holdo maneuver, people would be like, ah, suicidal run at something one
in a million chance to go through it.
That would be a better similarity.
It's fucking retarded, but that it would be more similar.
I actually think the other way that could actually end up being remembered
is the same way as jumping the shark is.
Yeah, it's like, oh, they did a Holdo maneuver in this show.
You're like, what do you mean?
Yeah, fucked it all up.
Yeah, it's something really, really bad.
But that that would carry the same sort of weight because it's you say this one
thing and you think of a big scenario and what you learned from it.
Guy Walker saga mirrors ancient epics.
It borrows classic epic storytelling techniques as well.
To understand how let's look to scholars Barbara Graziosi and Johannes Halvold
and their analysis of Homer's work.
As you may know, Homer was the author long attributed to ancient Greek stories such as
before we go down this rabbit hole.
Remember, this is why Star Wars is actually good.
And why we have to go.
We have to go to Greek philosophers to explain why Star Wars is actually good.
It's like, you know how things you don't have to do this with good things.
Just enjoy them.
You have to the rationalization doesn't get this is all.
But all right, let's see where he goes.
There's the Odyssey and the Iliad.
We once thought that Homer was a single person of one man story machine churning out culture
defining works.
But now scholars mostly believe that Homer was in fact a pseudonym for a group of storytellers
who built upon strengthened and further develop work.
Graziosi and Halvold developed a theory of resonance to describe the way these disparate
storytellers worked together.
They argue that in order to maintain a consistent world and a single authorial voice,
the various storytellers employed specific narrative features in each new tale.
These techniques included starting a story mid scene or repeating specific phrases like
high hearted men and swift footed Achilles or using precise formulas to introduce characters
or speeches.
Even the precise way a hero undressed was ritualized and repeated from story to story.
The use of resonance told the audience that this story.
So like, I'm wondering how much of this because we're looking at a when we look at the story
like the Iliad and when we look at combinations of stories that we've had for a long, long time.
We have the benefit.
It's kind of like how people say how music from like the 80s and stuff was way better
than today.
We have the we have the filter of time to sort of screen out a lot of the really shitty,
stupid ideas and a lot of the bad stuff about those old stories.
So we only get a lot of the good stuff.
And I'm wondering if at the time how many of these authors and writers who knew about
these stories pulled Ryan Johnson and completely destroyed characters in the narrative and they
rewrote things and did all this stuff and people didn't like it.
So it never got passed forwards and on and on and on.
And all that old terrible shit got passed that just got screened off and skimmed away
from the story.
Like, I think the sequel trilogy will be eventually sort of done to a lesser degree,
but it'll just be, you know, the prequels, the original trilogy, some of the other stuff
surrounding Star Wars.
That'll be the stuff that people remember and refer to because when people talk about,
you know, the glory of Star Wars, they ain't talking about the rise of Skywalker.
No, no, I think, you know, I guess the point he's making here is like when you pass it
through that kind of filter of multiple authors and being retold multiple times and stuff,
what you end up with is a kind of classic story with universal elements that everyone
can relate to and stuff.
That's that is your classic epic story.
And that's what you ended up with with something like the original trilogy.
It's a story that deals with universal themes and ideas, universal characters,
and it tells it in that classic epic way, which is fine.
But then how you can apply that then to the sequel trilogy, which doesn't have any of
those elements.
You don't have a hero that people can relate to.
You don't have the ideas of family and connection and stuff in any meaningful way, except
you have these you have these weird attempts at those ideas.
Well, I'm curious if you can so bad, you almost like forget that that was kind of what
they were sort of trying to do.
Is he going to argue that like to lightsabers and space battles and Jedi and Sith are the
equivalents like you see them throughout the other residents.
I'd be like, wow, that's superficial.
And I think as well, you can't you can't escape how these the sequel trilogy was made.
The fact that you've got completely disconnected storytelling from different minds and
different goals and objectives.
And so what you end up with is these three movies that feature the same characters that
tell completely different stories.
So it doesn't even function in the same way that the original trilogy did.
I wonder if you go ahead.
I was just going to say how he develops this because I'm not 100 percent sure where he's
going yet.
Got the first half of the argument, I think, like establishing resonance with these old
stories and how that matters to Star Wars right now.
We've got I mean, we're we're all we're all relatively young people.
And you think about us doing this for decades, potentially, you think, you know, 20 years
down the road, it is a very real possibility that we are going to be looking back at Star
Wars.
And I just I'm so curious what the fate of it will be in the future.
Like I mean, what will we remember?
What will we forget?
Will these things be treated like the new holiday special need to appreciate that image?
I love the smiley face.
Oh, my goodness.
The little dick drawing.
And as well, Jay just said, we've already forgotten Solo.
And it's just funny this meme that Solo wrote what I've been here as well.
Yeah, Solo, every time someone mentioned solo, I'm like, Oh, fuck.
Yeah, that happened.
Yeah, I kind of forget about Rogue One as well.
I'm just like, Yeah, it killed a couple of hours.
It was a movie like I never have any strong opinions about it one way or the other.
Yeah, the main movies really do dominate the discussion, especially these last two.
They've just been wild.
Wild.
Story was part of the Homeric tradition and connected to past and future Homeric stories.
At the same time, it implicitly promised the audience a specific experience.
Like the Odyssey, Star Wars is a saga helmed by various authors,
namely George Lucas, George Lucas, but worse.
I don't like sand.
JJ Abrams and Rian Johnson.
And like the Odyssey, Star Wars use resonance to remain coherent.
This is instantly apparent the moment a Star Wars film begins.
And the bright yellow.
This just seems like I don't know why you need two people to come up with this idea
that everyone's like, Well, yeah, this shit takes place in the same universe.
There's going to be a lot like this resonance stuff.
Even if you go back to the Iliad and stuff like that is like, Yeah, you can't all of a sudden
introduce completely new otherworldly things to it that don't make any sense.
Like things, it's almost like resonance is just the concept of yeah, things are
storytelling is going to be consistent with itself to some stuff you saw you might see again.
Oh, okay.
Oh, what's really resonant with Toy Story and Rise of Skywalker?
There's probably some stuff you could actually pick out.
Look, you know, I get a stupid video as they be like,
the character protagonist enters into like really vague terms.
And you compare two scenes.
It's like one for one.
Oh, my God.
You know, taken to the crazy degree, you get that Snowpiercer Willy Wonka video where they
actually like nailed it.
I just mean the drawing resonance between two movies, one of which is a sequel to the other.
I'm just like, this won't be hard.
It's going to be shit.
Tons of things you can work with.
Like, why is this a point?
Also, I love this drawing.
Oh, no.
Play it sealed here.
I'm Joe.
Help me.
Joe.
Man, that came up first.
Oh, my goodness.
Poor Joe.
Honey, Silo, 76.
We have massive silos.
We keep on.
Joe just fell in bad.
Damn.
All right.
It was inexplicably through space while the iconic score plays.
Hey, but this isn't resonance.
This is just this is a stylistic element.
I wouldn't say this is resonant because it's not actually part of the story.
It's a means of presentation.
So it seems weird.
These including this in resonance.
I don't know because he specifically said it was story beats.
This isn't story beats.
This is just how you present something.
Yeah, I'm just like the the do we even care about motivation for something like this?
You know why this stuff is here?
It's like because they want to appeal.
Like this is all it's like, oh, my gosh, just like the originals.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
This is the Star Wars brand.
Like don't change because it's the brand of stuff.
God has videos that like his videos.
Yeah.
Well, this is kind of what I'm getting at.
He's like seeing it as like, oh, look at look at these beats that are repeated in this wonderful
epic.
And it's just like they're there because it works on you.
It makes you say stuff like that.
It's
more examples of resonance are peppered throughout each film.
These range from scene transitions to character archetypes like the tragic hero.
Okay,
all right.
These archetypes can't be you can't say that these are archetypes that Star Wars resonated
through Star Wars.
It's like, no, this is just stories.
Yeah.
God, these are story beats which exist across time, because they are universally by all people
everywhere.
All cultures share stories with these character archetypes.
These archetypes are not limited to Star Wars.
Sharing wisdom and redeeming yourself.
These are like, very, you know, they're tied to the human experience in many ways.
Like, it's not hard to figure out why these things work so well, is it?
But like, be like, oh, Star Wars.
They're the ones that have got this resonating.
It's like, what do you mean?
Fuck it.
Everything has this or the sage mentor to visual images that deliberately evoke earlier.
Why do you think they did that?
Yes, because you're going to make fucking videos like this.
Did you guys know there's two sons in the last Jedi?
Do you know how many sons there were in the New Hope?
You know,
but you know, oh my god, this is this is destined to be one of those like 50 things you missed
about Rise of Skywalker films in the series.
First Lucas and now his successors deliberately use these resonances to establish Star Wars
as a modern epic play now.
Right.
I don't think you could say that they just like ape what was done previously because
they've got no fucking imagination.
And they're just relying on member berries to try and generate some kind of interest
from the audience.
Literally that even on my first watch through when he when he forced pushed Rey up to a
magnifying glass to show her her fleet dying to tell her there's no hope.
I was like, this is you've just taken this scene from Return of the Jedi.
Like, this isn't even.
Yeah.
Why do you have a magnifying glass right there?
There's such a gulf between, you know, using similar thematic elements
and just blatantly copying what's already been done.
Like, you know, there's no there's no smart like approach to that.
There's no kind of clever undertones to any.
It's just like we can't think of anything else to do.
We're just going to copy what we did before because that worked.
I'm picturing Snoke scooting his old throne all the way up to the magnifying glass.
He just does that thing where he grabs it on the sides and scoops his butt.
Yeah, it is.
So do you want some help?
You know, I can do this myself.
Now it's fine.
It's fine.
It's good for me.
Sure.
You don't want to monitor built into your throne or something.
No, no, I'll go over to the fucking telescope.
And would you rather not have a high definition?
No, I'm going to the looking.
And then you realize I'm old.
You realize the telescope.
The transports are supposed to be cloaked and you just seize them in his magnifying
glass like, guys, there's some transport like, oh my God, guys, look out the window.
That pesky decline scan again.
Yeah.
I mean, they can't run it all the time.
They have battery limits, you know, they could have 17 star destroyers,
but they can't have a large battery.
That's that's too much.
Fucking stupid.
Felt right before our eyes.
In fact, Abrams relies heavily on resonance in The Force Awakens.
No shit.
This is what I mean.
Like, yeah, they are beating you up on the head with it, aren't they?
They do not want you to forget.
They will not allow you to forget.
Remember Star Wars.
Yes.
Yes, I do.
I think we all do.
I don't.
I kind of wish I didn't.
And even more so in The Rise of Skywalker.
The Force Awakens.
These scenes are the same.
These scenes are the same.
Yeah, one of them has had Solo in it and the other one does as well.
Yeah, these.
Yeah.
Wait, what are the other similarities?
They talk to each other.
There is there's acting in these scenes in both scenes.
There's acting.
Rey is convincing Han to to help them.
And Luke is convincing Han to save Leia.
It's the same thing.
Yeah, they're both on spaceships.
Chewie is around in this room.
Both rooms.
Finn is like C-3PO.
Okay.
Both Luke and Rey are orphans from a desert planet.
But you say this like we didn't realize.
Like, oh, yeah, what a crazy thing that they did that's kind of like the original.
No, that's clever resonance.
These were the things that the film got fucking blasted for.
Like, I don't understand how you're highlighting them as like,
this is really cool, interesting resonance.
Because when he says the word resonance, it makes it sound better than they hit copy paste.
Yeah, this is a resonance.
This is copying shit.
Just because you're using a big word to describe it.
That doesn't mean it's suddenly smart.
You call it, you call your film star fights.
And it's the same thing.
And you're like, it's resonance.
Shut up.
I'm resonating.
This is genius.
You don't understand.
Warren Starkiller base are manmade planet destroyers.
And both the Empire and the First Order are wannabe space fascists.
Similarly, the rise of-
What do you mean wannabe?
Like, they actually are.
I was going to say, weren't they both very success?
Well, that's the whole conversation.
How successful the First Order.
It's like, despite their immense power and influence, they managed to fuck it up three times.
But still get to blow up six planets.
Of course.
So it's, it's a really like, you have no idea what their competence level is.
It just depends on whatever they need to do.
Vader would be so disappointed if he was alive and he was evil.
He'd be like, this sort of fucking suck.
You need like someone.
You can't move over the planet if you blow it up.
I mean, how is your officers to kill?
Like, how is he so young to be in charge?
You know, we were talking about this super competent.
He's super good at his job.
Because you've got like a guy like general pride who seems a little bit better at what he does.
Right.
More so done.
Like, why was he not just in charge to begin with?
Like, how is how someone so young been promoted over him?
Well, like, I remember reading in one of his wiki pages that his dad was like a really respected
first order general.
And I think that's what got him his position.
And I saw that they made like a mock up image because his dad is Brendan Gleeson in real life.
And I was like, Oh, man, I could really go for like a Brendan Gleeson character,
him playing a character in the first order who's super competent and threatening.
And I was just thinking about how like, what if Stiles was good?
It's like, what if Star Wars would be different?
Yeah, like what was Snoke's justification for having hooks around is just like,
well, he's a useful idiot.
Why don't just have a useful focus?
Yeah, like have a useful idea as like your personal assistant or something,
not as the commander of all your military forces.
That's just going to invite disaster.
Alternatively, instead of a useful idiot, a useful genius.
That's what I said.
Did you?
Yeah, I said a useful spot.
Oh, mine was less eloquent.
I will give you that matter on the same page.
Yeah, it's it's brains.
Our brains have resonance.
Well, this is the thing.
This thing I always want to highlight whenever someone says plot holes and making sense and
logic doesn't matter.
And it's like, well, what about when the film is clearly trying to explain things to you?
Does it matter?
Then she just ignore any explanation.
It's like, why have such an idiot on your team?
Like, Ryan Johnson thought about that.
And he was like, right.
I'm going to have Snoke say this to explain it.
And it's like, but that doesn't explain it.
That it's like, who cares?
It's like, well, you do.
You just gave us it.
You cared enough to start that.
He's like, you started it.
Exactly.
You thought it was worthy of a shitty explanation,
but we just pointed out your explanation was really shitty.
That just raises more questions.
It's like when Hux is on the bridge of his on the supremacy and they're chasing the rebel fleet.
It's like, what is the point of all of this if we can't destroy three little ships?
It's like, yeah, good fucking question.
It makes a big sound.
It's like, oh, my God, he's cinema.
What's going on?
Both feature a young Jedi training with a dying mentor.
So if we're going that broad, both both feature a young Jedi training with a dying mentor.
It's like, wow, probably get a dying mentor.
That's nice and vague, isn't it?
In terms of like dying for they're not they're alive, but they are they are going to die.
You're like, so they're dying very slowly of old age.
It's like Anakin is a young Jedi training with a dying mentor that is Obi-Wan.
Like he's not going to die anytime soon, but he's dying.
It's all residents.
Both begin with the rebels struggling after a crushing defeat.
Both begin after a rip.
What?
I mean, are they talking about so the beginning of T.R.O.S.
is the rebels recovering from a defeat that was in T.L.J.
But fully fully, they'd saved what they love.
But it was like a year later.
I don't know.
It seemed like they got forces out of no I don't know.
Like that's a weird.
They did just seem to start off by saying, oh, we have like an army now.
Yeah.
The rise of Skywalker's military situation is fucked completely.
Like it's so bizarre, because in The Last Jedi, they're like, oh,
we sent out this communication and no one came to help us.
Okay.
But then in the next film, General Pride specifically says about the final order.
This is going to increase our power ten thousand fold.
And somehow Lando goes and universe to charge face first into that.
Yeah.
Somehow.
Let's just play it out.
Right.
So you you come to me rags and drinking.
Let's just say we're three separate alien factions and you're like,
I need help to take out the final order.
Like, what's that?
It's this huge army of like a thousand star destroyers that all have death star technology,
but they're all on one planet.
If we all go there now, we can destroy them because they don't have shields
and they don't know to go up.
Just just go with me.
Don't they still have like shit tons of weaponry?
Yes.
Yes.
Don't think about it.
Please just come with me.
Don't worry.
Your ships are your candidates.
And how do you know it just would you need you need to do that over like three movies,
like justifying why all of the planets would come with you.
And what they do is the opposite.
They establish that the planets don't want to help the rebellion at all or the resistance, whatever.
So we just sit here confused.
We're like, yeah, and then suddenly the enemy is ten thousand powerful and everyone's like,
well, you know what?
Time to go kick some ass.
Well, when you turn into that area.
Sense of where, you know, what the First Order's real capabilities are either.
You know, like how do they have like, do they just have ten
star destroyers of their own left or do they have thousands?
You know, it's never it's never explained.
The Admiral was unironically defeated by horses.
He was like, jam speeders.
And it's like, they're not using speeders.
He's like, my God, what can we do against horses?
Only there was something that we do at like a range to disable these organic things.
Just save the horses and our bastards.
If only we could flip the ship slightly to one side and they would just all slide off
because they're fucking horses and the whole of the ship is pretty much smooth.
Well, you know, they could just do an even simpler thing.
Go up.
There is no atmosphere up.
There's so many things.
Just go up and watch the horses start spasming out as they can't fucking breathe.
Even, you know, if you didn't mind too much about your ship getting damaged,
you could just have a couple of TIE fighters come in and strafe them.
And it's like, okay, you're going to damage the hull a bit, but you're going to kill them all.
It would be funny if you said disable the horses.
He was like, what do you mean?
He just had them a blaster.
Like, just fucking kill them.
They're horses.
Just open the window, lean out and start shooting.
They probably have like little windows that could open up.
No, they don't have windows because they don't know which way is up.
Come on, right?
Oh, yeah, that's right.
They have.
Yeah, I don't know.
They are.
These guys have and it's like, we don't know which way is up.
We've got no shields.
We're under attack by space horses.
It's almost talking about idioms earlier.
Like when you say like, oh, he doesn't even know which way is up.
Like the implication.
Someone's like, lost their mind.
It was like, they literally do not.
Which is that's where we're at.
I can't believe they did that.
Speaking of resonance, do you remember that time in the last Jedi where someone couldn't tell
which way was up or in a new hope where someone couldn't tell which way was up?
Oh, it was when Vader was looking for Luke because he was hidden.
It was like, damn, where is Luke?
Which way is up?
That's what it was.
Yeah, yeah, beautiful.
And both feature a Palpatine concocted showdown between good and evil.
Detractors might dismiss this as fanservice or at best an over-reliance on the stalled
narrative.
But the way Abrams mirrors Lucas actually forges quite copy and structural links between thematic
and structural links.
Oh, I've got to hear this explanation.
I mean, yeah, he copied them.
This is what I call grasping at straws, desperate, labeled themes and structure.
If you ever get anyone in the chat, if you ever like plagiarize anything,
just give them this video and convince them that this is actually resonance.
You're just mirroring the themes and the letters.
Well, you know, if I get a copyright strike from YouTube in future, I'm just going to
reply with, like, as my, you know, plea.
I was like, well, it's resonance.
So learn about resonance.
Don't you know that there are philosophers?
Maybe this video would actually be, like, entertaining to watch,
you know, like, Quinton and Jenny Nichols and whoever, like, responding to it.
You have style just to see them get frustrated at this, because who's going to like this
argument?
Nobody.
Nobody likes every Star Wars film.
As far as I can tell, like, there's no prominent critics that I know that enjoy all of them.
They usually pick a selection.
Right.
So if this guy's making an argument for how all of it's great, it's just like, who are you
appealing to?
Maybe like one guy who's like, yeah, Star Wars.
That guy, Eric Butz, he probably likes all of them, right?
I would say, yeah, I can't I can't imagine that he just the way that he claps like a
fucking seal at anything Star Wars, there's no way that he doesn't adore them all.
He'll find a way that's the thing.
He will find a way to love them all.
It must be nice to have, like, that level of experience with Star Wars media, no matter
what, like, nice in terms of the experience.
But then also, like, I don't know, get ashamed of yourself.
What have I become?
I was rural myself.
We're all cynical assholes.
Yeah, not him.
I think we're pretty reasonable, actually, on the cynical.
Just bad people.
Really?
Well, naturally.
In the two trilogies, Abrams actually spoke to this during the promotion for The Force
Awakens, stating, we very consciously tried to borrow familiar beats.
What?
Yeah, you fucking just copied it.
Copied it.
You just copied it, man.
Everyone's just running in circles and tap dancing around.
It's like you just fucking copied it.
We all know it's not a secret.
A lady's like, you know, there was a conscious effort to to to borrow familiar beats.
So the rest of the movie could hang on something that we knew was Star Wars.
Residence also.
Yeah, of course, it was Star Wars.
It was like the movie Star Wars.
You just copied Star Wars.
The rest of the movie could hang on something we knew was going to make money.
I guess I should clarify for chat.
Yeah, when we say copy, we're not actually saying it's a good copy.
Yeah, very bad copy.
It's one of those photocopies that comes out all broken and fucked up.
Like someone sat on the photocopier while putting Star Wars there.
So the ass got like imprinted on top of it.
So I can ask coffee.
That's kind of where I'm getting.
Who explains Abram's strategic repetition of everything from central themes to incidental
dialogue?
I got a bad feeling about this.
I got a bad feeling about it.
Oh, wow.
Oh, my God.
He used memes.
Oh, Anakin says it too in the prequels.
Whoa.
But it doesn't account for the second complaint lodged by Star Wars fans.
Okay.
Why so many inconsistencies?
Well, for that, let's jump forward in time to medieval England and visit a.
Why so many inconsistencies?
Oh, shit.
We had medieval England.
Let's go.
Medieval England.
Go now.
Go.
Oh, Merry man.
I like it because like you kind of follow the argument for that one or whatever.
You're like, okay, so explain the inconsistencies.
What he's like, right.
I need to tell you about medieval England.
You're like, do you know?
But this is such a shitty comparison.
It's like let's let's compare the storytelling techniques of ancient Greece or wherever with
stories that were basically passed down from generation to generation verbally and totally
changed and there was no way to like produce a unified version of anything with, you know,
early 20th, 21st century Hollywood cinema where you've got all of the technology you
could ever need at your disposal to create like the, you know, the perfect streamlined story.
You've got like modern writing techniques.
You've got everything you could possibly need.
How are these two things in any way related?
Like obviously there's going to be inconsistencies for stories that were made up 2000 years ago.
You don't have the same excuse now because you have logic and reason.
And also because these stories are like years apart from one another and it's the same exact
people working on them.
Come on.
This is not comparable, but fine.
Let's let him compare it.
Because and also, well, I guess I might pop up later.
So we'll just we'll just sit on that.
Let's keep that very different epic.
Our three in Legend or Arthur Iana is what we call the total narrative surrounding King Arthur
and his fabled Knights of the Roundtable.
Arthur Iana is a particularly helpful epic for us because we can largely
I don't recognize any of these fucking Arthur movies.
King Arthur with Clive Owen.
I know that one.
This is the one from this is new.
Right.
This is the Guy Ritchie one.
Yeah, this one.
I've heard nobody say this is good.
It's not.
I can't wait.
Not like Guy Ritchie is pretty reliable, but like he should not be doing like medieval epics.
Yeah, it's a weird, weird choice again.
And the sword and the stone.
That'll be getting reminaged soon enough.
Oh, fuck.
Really?
Why not?
Probably.
Why not?
Oh, I hope not.
Track its development across the centuries.
And interestingly enough, it has a lot in common with the development.
Oh, that looks ugly.
What the fuck is that?
Yeah, it's bad.
It looks terrible.
Let's have a look at that again.
For us, because we can largely track its development across the centuries.
And interestingly enough, it has a lot in common with the development and evolution of Star Wars.
The first sustained depiction of the King Arthur legend appeared in the 12th century
when Geoffrey of Monmouth penned The History of the Kings of Britain.
For this, Jeff rounded up various fables and presented them as historical facts.
The TLDR is Arthur gets a thrown-
He knew you were watching this.
You knew.
He knew.
You fucking walked, mate.
You wanna fucking throw down, do you, son?
Oh my god.
I'll fucking bash you in the gabber, mate.
...mites a whole bunch of Saxons and chats it up with a wizard named Merlin.
Notice the glaring lack of magical swords, circular tables, heroic knights, and extramarital tryst.
Not long after, a rogue poet added the roundtable to Arthur's story.
In this way, the first Arthurian canon was essentially set.
Think of this initial Arthurian canon called the Matter of Britain as-
There's already completely different Star Wars, cool.
Like, this is not the same thing whatsoever.
Some guy wrote it, and then some other guy added a bunch of random shit.
And if you're gonna try and equate that to George Lucas and then Rian Johnson and JJ,
I'll just be like, it doesn't work the same way.
Because I don't think the bard guy was making a sequel.
He was just changing, almost adapting it, and adding his own shit.
Which, by the way, JJ can do.
Yeah, all the time.
If JJ wants to go and do that, he can.
Probably will do event-
They probably will remake the original trilogy eventually,
and it's gonna be devastating, but whatever.
That'll be for then.
The Audacity.
They will, though.
They absolutely will.
But yeah, a lot of this, I can already-
It's just, when those people were writing these stories,
it was almost like their version of it.
But when JJ talks about my version of Star Wars,
or Rian talks about my vision of Star Wars,
they're not using it in the same sense.
Because these are direct sequels with the exact same characters
and the exact same timeline that is happening chronologically.
It's the exact same story, specifically.
It's not like this is my take on an old story.
The way to nail this would be the nature of a sequel
is that it relies on you having seen the one before it
in order to create its payoffs.
As in, if you watch Empire on its own,
you'll be confused for a lot of it.
If you watch Return of the Jedi on its own,
you'll probably be super confused.
Though I think a lot of people actually did see
Return of the Jedi on its own.
I remember seeing a couple people in chat
saying that when we covered it before.
But the point is that sequels rely on their predecessor
or prequel, whatever, being in stone.
Those things happened, therefore I can make and say these things
because you have that in your head already.
And so if you counter those things,
you've just become antithetical to the entire point
of your position in the timeline as a sequel.
You're just fucking it up.
Because that's the difference between
if J.J. Abrams made a fucking TV show called Star Wars
and it was the first three episodes were in New Hope
and they're all an hour long or whatever,
or 40 minutes, whatever.
And it's a remake.
He could probably change some stuff.
It wouldn't count as a contradiction.
Like if Obi-Wan doesn't die to Vader in the Death Star,
maybe he stays alive until the second film or something.
He wants to experiment changing the story that way.
We wouldn't say you can't be alive there and dead
in the original version if it's an adaptation.
It's like changes and we could talk about
whether or not they're good and bad stuff,
that's what seems to be happening with the example
of Arthurian stories, next guy.
What we were saying before about the guy
traveling to different universes,
retelling the story of Star Wars,
it would happen that way.
Yeah, because it's not like it takes place.
For Star Wars, it takes place in the universe
where all kinds of different things
are happening and everything.
But with these Arthurian stories,
there is a very set Arthur as a child.
There is Arthur growing up.
There is him as king.
There is a quest for the Grail.
There's going off to Avalon.
There are specific characters that are part of it,
Mordred and Aggravain and all these guys.
You could keep it going on and on and on,
but no one really does that.
No one takes the Arthurian stories
in the same universe as the Arthurian legend,
but it's this random other character
whose people don't do that with these stories.
It's almost like it wasn't really made for it
in the way that Star Wars was.
They just retell the story,
picking and choosing what aspects they really like.
And then someone else does the same thing
and someone else does the same thing.
But each one's totally independent of the other.
It's era Star Wars.
Both were chiefly guided by one person
who crafted a unified canon,
though in Monmouth's case,
he synthesized quite a bit of folksy miscellaneous.
Disney even referred to the Lucas era movies
as immovable objects when they acquired Lucasfilm.
But obviously-
So much for that.
Yeah, well, that's clearly a fucking lie now, isn't it?
Well, apparently they hit an unstoppable force in that case.
Where was the link between the Arthurian legend to this?
Did I miss it?
I think he's doing it now.
Obviously, the Skywalker saga didn't end with Lucas
and Arthuriana was just getting started with Jeff.
Over time, new storytellers added more and more
to the Arthurian suit,
their tales spreading organically
and influencing one another.
Yeah, but those were their own personal adaptations
of the same core story.
Yeah, they're not sequels, are they?
Yeah, they're not a direct sequel.
It's like all of the original stuff for King Arthur
is very, very sparse.
It comes from the four branches of the Mabinogion,
which actually came before the text
which he's talking about,
which I think is the one called The Matter of Britain.
Arthur in the Mabinogion is quite sparingly used.
You can look at even things like the story of the Holy Grail.
There are stories of the Holy Grail.
The Holy Grail itself actually comes
from pre-Christian Celtic stories
and there's a variety of those,
most of them coming from Wales.
The original telling, as far as I'm aware,
was that the Holy Grail was actually just own.
And then the Grail became related to a cauldron,
which was a cauldron,
which if you put a dead man back inside it,
he would come back out alive.
And that was the story from Bran the Blessed, I believe.
Later on, the Grail then became something to do
with the story of the Fisher King or the Wounded King,
which is ultimately a pre-Christian fertility story
about a king who gets a wound.
It's always a wound in his thigh
and it's always caused by a lance.
And sometimes the lance is bleeding perpetually
as a result and sometimes it was bleeding before that
because it was to do with fertility and infidelity.
And then later on, the story of the Grail
evolved even further to be something
which captured the blood of Christ
because it got mingled in with the bleeding
from the Fisher King or the Wounded King story.
And then it became the Cup of Christ,
which he used at the Last Supper
because you drink this and it becomes my blood.
That all happened over about 400 or 500 years.
It's the same story, but there's so many different versions.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Do I know Arthurian legend better than the author of this?
Whoops.
I feel like copyright kind of kills this whole argument too.
It's like, why do you think there's so many visions of King Arthur?
It's like, oh, probably because they didn't have a patent
on the story when it came out to prevent people
from making loads of them.
Like if they did right now, if Star Wars didn't have copyright,
then people are making shit tons of fan fictions.
The EU was a thing until they got axed.
Like we'd have all kinds of different versions,
remakes, adaptations, and sequels.
It would all be floating around all over the place.
And there's a reason why we categorize them all differently.
Just like Arthur's, Arthurian different variations,
you'd be able to actually identify exactly what it is.
Like this is a sequel because I want to explore
what happened to King Arthur in his later years.
And you're like, oh, okay, cool.
So which of the stories have you chosen to make it a sequel to?
And, you know, they could either say like,
oh, this one specifically by this guy,
or they could be like, oh, it's just sort of,
I'll try and imply in my story,
the history that I'm going with,
mostly a shit understanding of what it is.
Like every time there will be a way to categorize it,
you don't just go, nah, it's just like Star Wars.
Ryan Johnson and JJ are the new writers.
Lucas was the old one. Makes sense.
Also, there's no such thing as a contradiction at this point.
Because this is them saying, oh yeah, well,
instead of this happening, what if this happened?
Instead of that happening, what if this happened?
Also, this doesn't account for inconsistencies
within their own stories, as in,
Rise of Skywalker can contradict the OT
according to this retarded set of rules,
but it can't contradict itself, right?
As in, for example,
Rey being able to detect Chewie like miles away in space,
but she can't detect him when he's like a half mile away from her
on the same place.
Remember that?
There's just a standard contradiction.
These Arthurian stories don't contradict one another
because they're not the same story.
Exactly.
But even if we were to take his argument as valid,
which it's not, it wouldn't be able to account
for inconsistencies within the specific individual stories, right?
This argument's gonna count for that.
Yeah, he hasn't answered the question
that he's posed for inconsistencies.
He's just brought up something else
that's completely different in almost every aspect.
And what a crappy standard as well.
It's like, yeah, you can take stuff from the originals
to use as rules you'll be banking on,
but then you can also break them whenever you want
because fuck it.
Because residents...
New addition to the legend scene?
The more it was incorporated into subsequent tales.
The best example of this was Precianditois' introduction
of the Holy Grail and the cuckolding Lancelot.
In this way, a democratic process of storytelling
crafted and updated Arthurian legend.
Democratic?
That's not democratic.
That's actually the opposite.
They're doing their own thing as they go.
Yeah, this isn't a democracy at all.
There's people just deciding completely arbitrarily
that they're gonna make their own version of the story.
Which is fine, but that's not a democratic way
to make a story.
They didn't all come together and decide
on what the story would be agreed upon.
Actually, it kind of makes it sound like a conspiracy.
Reasons for dare additions to the canon.
Notably, de Trois geared his work
towards the taste of the French court,
which fancied itself quite chivalrous.
Thus, de Trois' stories upheld good nightly virtues
like courtly love.
Authors like de Trois and Thomas Mallory...
They all upheld that virtue.
They all did.
The Celtic stories did that as well.
The original ones.
By one of the stories of...
I think it was...
What's his name?
Puerl?
I think it was the story of Puerl.
Where he goes into the other world, Anwen.
He goes there.
He exchanges places with the king of the place.
And the condition is something like,
you can become the king of my court.
You only have to go there in order to defeat my enemy.
And they do that.
And the king from the fairyland eventually comes back
and he's like,
Oh, you slept chastefully with my wife.
In other words, you didn't fuck my wife
when you were impersonating me.
Therefore, I'm going to give you the spoils of Anwen.
You're going to get a load of gifts from this.
Which is obviously a load of stuff from the other world.
So it's all enchanted, amazing stuff.
And with people...
That story predates...
I know, it'd be great, wouldn't it?
But that predates this guy's writing.
So the complexity is in all of these stories anyway.
But if we want to apply this theory then to what we have in current day,
by this rationale,
then you could have different versions of the Star Wars movies
released in different parts of the world as well,
to suit differing tastes.
Yeah.
I would say that the applicable version is something like Lovecraft today.
Loads of different people doing all kinds of stories.
The similar resonance would be horrifying creatures from a different world
or a world that we can't quite comprehend.
Ritualistic stuff, cults, elements of like magic or...
Black magic maybe.
I'm not sure what kind of categorization you probably put it in.
Obviously the eldritch influence
and then mystery, existential horror,
all these things are going to be typically in a Lovecraft story
but they could be completely different and contradictive.
Because guess what?
The fucking copyright ran out on those things.
So it's all over the place and everyone's got all kinds of stories.
It seems to be that would be the key element to all of this, to be honest with you.
The resulting canon and complete coherent manuscripts that were published widely.
Again, this mirrors the evolution of the Star Wars canon and the way...
Except it doesn't at all.
Though Lucas was historically hands off with the Star Wars extended universe
that sprang up after the original trilogy,
he did start to incorporate some of these new elements into the prequels.
For example, Aayla Secora.
I'm sure curious.
I thought one of the things about the extended universe is that they like
were compatible with all the Star Wars movies.
I think so, yeah.
From what I know is the problem of the left and bottom.
Yeah, and they weren't retellings of the same story.
They were additions to the original story that acted parallel to them,
that existed alongside them.
You know what's funny?
The novelization that we were talking about at the beginning of the stream of
Rise of Skywalker is almost a retelling because it's trying to fill holes
while saying the same storyline.
Which is funny considering everything he's been talking about.
It's like it's not a contradiction.
It's just a different version.
It's like what about a different version that's sole purpose
is to like un-fuck the contradictions?
They make a book specifically for that.
We could then make a movie of the book.
Yeah, adapt the book that was an adaptation of the movie.
I don't know.
That's how that's Disney's new strategy is they make a shitty movie
and then they have somebody write a book that fixes all the problems
and then they make another movie based on that book.
This is like iterative storytelling.
We'll just keep making it until we get the perfect movie.
Disney is somehow the perfect film.
They keep making it worse though.
They go in the opposite direction.
2347.
Disney has scientifically created the perfect movie.
Attendance is mandatory.
They keep like going left, right, up to all different directions from the OT
when they conclude at vision 9,643,102.
It's just the OT.
They're like, yeah, I don't know.
We got it right.
It's still like it's in some underground super vault on the Disney planet
in the core hidden away.
This is it.
The perfect story.
We've done it.
They're coming.
Do not let them.
The Amazonians, they're coming.
They cannot have it.
Hide it away.
Diznoids.
That'll be the race at that point.
The Appalachians.
The Diznoids protect the original story.
The best story.
Diznoids.
It could work.
It could work.
Next to Song of the South.
As the world progresses on, that film becomes like progressive somehow.
It all works.
We had it this whole time.
We were just, we just were too blinded to see it.
To the original trilogy.
He did.
Can we call Disney shows Diznoids?
Diznoid.
To incorporate some of these new elements into the prequels.
For example, Aayla Sakura, Coruscant, and Dooku's curved lightsaber hilt were all
developed by different authors, but Lucas was a fan.
Wow, so they're not retellings in any way.
He's just describing canon versus non-canon now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like if I'm walking down the street, halfway through having made my story and some guy's
like, hey, wouldn't it be cool if a giant snake monster attacked me on the street right now?
And I'm like, hmm, that'd be kind of an interesting thing to do.
Oh my god, did you write King Arthur?
Exactly.
And then I'd be like, I put that in my story.
And someone goes, you'll see this just, that's like the Arthurian legend.
Some guy told you about it and you put it.
It's like, no, stop.
Okay.
Just because Lucas read something in the EU that he liked.
And he was like, I'm going to put that in my mate.
Wasn't he okay with the extended expanding universe as well?
Like he, as far as I know, he was kind of like towards it.
He spoke highly of it when he was doing that interview with Kathleen Kennedy.
And he's like, you know, I'm handing all this stuff over to you.
That's like treasure trove of stories and stuff.
And she's like, yeah, it's good.
And he takes it into the back room.
He's got so broad now that like, I'm just sitting up my desk, writing a story.
And I see like a bug crawling around.
I'm like, I want to make a creature based after that.
And he's like, you see, just like an Arthurian legend.
No, no, no, no.
People categorization is very important.
Okay.
Just because you you've taken many influences in creating what is considered
the the mainline story, canon, sequels, timeline, a linear timeline of events.
Doesn't then mean that's the exact same process as someone telling the same story,
but over many generations with different tellers going off of memory or books that they rewrite.
Like it's a completely different process.
And how does this mean that inconsistencies don't matter?
Like what way for that dot to connect?
Permission adopted them.
And just like post-Jeff King Arthur storytellers,
diehard franchise geeks Abrams and Johnson creatively expanded the canon.
Expanded the canon.
That's what they creatively expanded the canon.
Sure.
That's what they did.
They creatively expanded the canon.
That description.
I don't know if it was a very generous one.
I'm going to go ahead and guess they thought that the sequel trilogy was good.
We're at the plot and Buda Thuriana with courtly love.
Abrams and Johnson made contributions rooted in their individual philosophies about Star Wars.
Precisely the problem.
They made their own movies.
They didn't care what came before.
Yeah, they made their own versions,
but they like lamented the fact they had to be sequels almost.
Yeah, it's like putting an adaptation into the sequel.
It's like, what are you doing?
It's like, this is not what you put this.
It's like, I don't know.
I just wanted to do this.
Like, what the fuck?
It's like the sequel to Raimi's Spider-Man one is far from home.
You'd be like, uh, I don't see the connecting tissue.
I'm very confused.
Of course, they have very different philosophies.
Abrams is all about evoking that warm,
fuzzy feeling that we all got when we watched our first Star Wars.
Johnson, on the other hand, seems more inclined to explore the complexities
of both the characters and the universe.
You know he does.
He wants to know.
He wants to know.
There is no complexity there.
If that's what you call complexity.
Yeah, I guess.
Complexity.
Some people can be good and bad and sometimes good and bad is just a point of view.
That was incredible.
Almost like that thing that I told you was true from a certain point of view.
I can't remember the thing that you learned when you were eight years old.
Yeah.
As soon as you develop a theory of mind, begin to understand that other people
also have their own experiences in the same way that you do.
It's called this now.
No one ever thought of this.
It's called resonance.
Yeah, you're right about that though.
It's like they're using that word.
It's the nicest way you can put it, but copy and pasting horribly.
It's such an easy on the ears.
You say it's like it's just the sort of thing.
It's like me, she will film student resonance.
You a pips just a little pleb over there.
It's the same thing.
I feel like resonance is just another word for like even it's almost like it's just your style.
Something is your style because it's something that you do repeatedly to a degree.
Everything from the text you use to the music that you use to the transitions that you use.
That's your style.
That's what it makes it your style because it's something that you do that's repeatable
and recognizable.
They're just taking something style and saying it's resonant because it does.
It's strange as well before, but more.
Because he's almost used to like how we typically use the word resonates.
We're usually talking about the effect something has on the person, right?
It's like, how does that resonate with you?
That sort of thing.
He's like to resonate through it's like the ripple effect through these films.
And it's almost like a subconscious thing that connects them all.
It's like, it's really not though.
Clearly a part of these directors choices like these aren't accidents whatsoever.
Even as that quote from JJ Abrams being like, yeah, you know, you know what we have to do.
You know, and I just, I just think that it's the nicest possible way to describe that.
I'm trying to think of like an example.
It's like, if you're like, oh my God, that person died.
You'd be like, no, they have simply ceased.
De-resonated.
Rise us as much as that time Vader dropped the old paternity bomb on Luke.
No, thank God.
He played the clip.
Oh, he said the thing.
I was, I was about to ask you guys what, what is he referring to?
When there was a big moment in empire with Luke and Vader.
Cause I was like, Darth Vader drew a blank.
Are the father.
Imagine like Luke.
Cause he told me you killed him and he goes, no.
And then Luke interrupts me.
He goes, you're my dad.
I know.
Wow.
You just could have said like, oh, okay.
Like you do.
He's like, yeah, I hope you want to tell me.
Oh, geez.
I said, you're really good friends.
Oh, okay.
So, um, you want to like,
you've been attacking me this whole time.
Would you cool with that?
Oh, what else did he say about me while I was.
Does he talk about me a lot?
He's like, you were corrupted.
He's like, oh, I was corrupted.
Did he tell you about that time that I choked my wife?
What?
Nothing.
No, she was into it.
It's, I, I mean, your mother and fuck.
Did he, did he mention young legs?
No.
Okay.
I'm glad about that.
I guess.
So Luke, now that we're done here, you want to like,
go get some tacos or something?
It's like, no, I still don't like you.
He's like, oh, well.
You blew up a planet last movie.
He's like, yeah.
That wasn't really me.
That was target.
I was there, but you could have stopped it.
He's like, no, not really.
I don't, I really don't know if I could have actually.
Yeah.
I could have maybe put my lightsaber.
I don't know.
It's not really, it's not confirmed.
It's ultimately an issue of heart versus head.
Oh, why are they versus fucking tell me about it?
Why are those things like they don't have to be opposed to each other.
If anything, they like in real life, they work best when they're combined.
Yeah.
I'm curious.
Like, don't make the head, the head, the villain.
Please don't do that.
We've had this before in so many different ways.
Do you remember like one of the earlier efforts where
someone made logic, the bad guy.
We were like, don't do it.
Don't do it.
Logic should be the bad guy.
It's going to be hard to explain that logically.
And each interpretation is as valid or invalid as the other.
But combine them into one trilogy and you get a series of conflicting interpretations
and clashing ideologies.
You can even sense a sort of jostling for power from film to film.
Yeah, there's a reason for that.
Maybe we all know why.
In particular, the last two films take previous plots and characters and
either ignore, redirect, or straight up, bisect them.
Arguably, this worked to the detriment of the trilogy as a whole.
Like I said, arguably.
Yeah, there's an argument to be made.
It's sub-arguably.
It did.
It just did.
With this in mind, let's take a look at where
Arthuriana and Star Wars start to diverge.
Oh, what do you mean start to diverge?
What do you mean like apart from every?
The year is 1123 AD.
You see, up to this point, both the Arthurian legend and Star Wars were pretty much the same
thing.
But let's look at how they separate.
It's like, no, you haven't established that at all.
It all began to fucking nanosecond the story of Arthur was created.
The second we established the titles, they already diverged, but okay.
It makes this whole thing try to undermine the really weak argument I've already made.
The actual property laws.
You know, those laws that let us buy and sell ideas.
These didn't exist way back when.
No one ever received a strongly worded cease and desist letter for writing a story about
King Arthur and his magical sword.
But today, Disney owns Star Wars, for better or worse.
Worse.
I wonder what the answer to that question.
It's worse, you fuck.
The franchise basically owns the entire process around the world as well.
You're going to own the film industry in a couple of decades, probably.
It's like Disney is basically the company that single handedly turned intellectual copyright
from, hey, I created this and I own it to the original author of this thing has been
dead for like a century, but we still own it.
Even though they never actually gave it to us, we still own it.
Like Disney is pure evil when it comes to copyright and ownership.
Yeah, they've been doing really shady shit.
Wanting to keep like Mickey Mouse and stuff like that.
Like so much of their stuff is out of copyright or it should be.
But because they just have so much fucking money, they keep extending it.
And it's the best lawyers and those lawyers fight tirelessly to extend those copyrights.
I mean, you know, it's the it's the rule, right?
The less of a thing there is, the more value it can accrue eventually.
So if you prevent Disney, if you prevent Star Wars from being made all over the place by
everybody, then there's only one source we can get it from, guys.
Even if that source is a big old poopy sludge, which is public domain in like 2073 or something
like that. So in our lifetimes, everybody in our lifetimes, chat, I feel like.
No, no, no, no, no, I was going to say they'll probably be extended unless they've killed it
by that. They don't give a fuck. They're like, it's not worth anything anyway.
They'll probably sell it back to Lucas for a dollar.
Robot Lucas, you have returned to me. They all do.
Makes one movie and it's like 10 times better than anything they ever make.
We're all just like, wow, we go.
You've been hiding your power level this whole time, Lucas.
Or, you know, like that time some guy created a fan movie that everyone really loved and
Disney was like, huh, we made that.
Remember when that happened?
Good times.
That Vader fan film. Still better than anything Disney's made.
That makes them the gatekeepers. That means they get to determine what stories do or don't
earn a permanent place in the lore. Consequently, they can decanonize thousands of pages of stories
with a simple press release.
And then steal their ideas.
Yep.
At first they were pretty laissez-faire, allowing Abrams and Johnson,
respectively, to make The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi on their terms.
Which makes no sense, doesn't it? Like they kill all of the EU and then they're like,
yeah, you guys go nuts. It's like, what? It seemed like you really wanted to control it,
but then you also didn't give a fuck.
The subsequent backlash compelled Disney to tighten their grip in episode nine.
That led to some serious backpedaling on previously introduced story elements and
some arguably overzealous course correcting.
Now, this would be totally chill if we were going by medieval standards of storytelling.
That's not, that's probably not true.
No.
Because again, you're talking about the difference between adaptations and sequel.
If you have like a big group of people in a bar, right? That you're telling a story
and it sort of ends, it's like a half hour thing, then you're like, and now what happened
after that? And you start the story again and it directly contradicts that first half an hour.
There's probably gonna be a patron in there that's like, hey, how's that possible?
Wait a second.
I thought that character was dead. It's like,
he's alive now because I wish to tell more stories about him.
It's like, what?
That fucking nonsense.
We start, I start, it works.
Um, outright.
You're dead, you're dead.
It's like, ah, but you see, no one's ever really gone.
Like, that's bullshit.
Gets his fucking sword out.
Calm down, sir. I'm simply telling my story.
Thankfully, knights and smelly armor are no longer a thing.
Smelly armor.
Knights and smelly armor.
These days, our society is completely saturated with media. As a result, we are a pretty savvy
audience with more sophisticated standards when it comes to world building stories.
What do you mean?
Like in theory, in theory we are, but no, we're not.
In practice, not even close.
Because there are idiots like this who will defend anything.
I think people cared about impossibilities back then, just as much as they do now.
With being taught.
I don't know.
I'm just, I'm finding hard.
Go ahead.
Yeah, probably their ability to rationalize complex plots and pick holes in them and stuff.
You know, like he's saying here, they had less media available to them,
so they probably just didn't mind so much back then.
You know, we've got some traveling minstrel who's telling us an amazing story.
That's fine to keep us entertained.
Like now, yeah, we do have higher standards in terms of what's consistent and what we believe
and you know, what we consider good entertainment, I would imagine.
Yes, he's just shitting on older people.
And by older people, I mean, really older people.
Then people.
Then your own people.
We weren't then this-
No, re-de-resonated people.
Oh, de-resonated.
De-resonation.
Probably wouldn't even be a thing.
Sure, multiple interpretations could peacefully coexist in Arthuriana.
But in-
Bring, bring me solo.
No de-resonation.
No de-resonation.
No, he must be delivered to be complete, deliver him to be completely resonated.
Could you imagine if this dude here was one of those bounty hunters and you just see him like
hang his head, like, no de-resonation.
Um, let me roll him back a sec.
With more sophisticated standards when it comes to world building and storytelling.
Hell, if we weren't, then this channel probably wouldn't even be a thing.
Sure, multiple interpretations could peacefully coexist in Arthuriana.
But in Star Wars, the conflicts within the canon and the-
Those are multiple interpretations.
Those are different stories.
Yeah.
A different interpretation of the same story is not the same as a sequel.
They wouldn't even be that though.
Like the original story would have been interpreted,
but then other interpretations would be interpreting the interpretations,
if you know what I mean.
Yeah, it's not like their interpretations.
They're just like, this version of the story just will be different.
Well, yeah, like if we were like, let's do King Arthur in space,
then someone's like, that's your interpretation?
It's like, it's not really interpreta- I'm just, no.
Yeah, but it's stupid.
It's like, okay, let's say we had different interpreted versions of-
Okay, Luke is not a boy.
He's a girl in this version.
And instead of having a lightsaber, she gets her father's nunchucks or something.
Like, it doesn't change the story as a thing.
And it's not set in space.
It's set in a small village somewhere.
And he sails across the seas to the people who are developing the dangerous weapon that is like,
oh, it's an Irish story.
And they're going to go and sail across the seas and fight the English,
because that's what always happens.
Did you break your laser nunchucks?
But it's just, all those changes that we've made haven't changed the story.
So it's just-
Yeah, they're peacefully coding.
Existing our Therianum.
But in Star Wars, the conflicts within the canon and the scenes of rebuttal
create a storytelling discord that is glaringly apparent to the audience.
That discord is compounded by the fact that we're all consuming the exact same version of Star Wars.
No shit.
Yeah.
It's almost like what I said at the beginning.
What was the point of this whole video?
Instead of, you know, hitting up our favorite local bard for a new, possibly inconsistent retelling.
It wouldn't be an inconsistent retelling if it was like a different vision.
That's kind of the whole fucking point.
If there is no solid objective text to go from,
all you're getting is interpretations.
There's nothing objective to reference back to.
And that's the difference here.
When it comes to these movies, we have an objective text to look at
and we can say, this happens, this happens, this happens, because it's there.
If you're just going on, well, I heard this story one time and let me tell it
and I'm going to fuck some bits up.
There's nothing to compare it back to.
No.
Mass media?
We're not as willing to forgive inconsistencies as the great Homeric fandom was.
So while Star-
Great Homeric fandom.
Okay, so let's be a...
So we have, I mean, how does he explain the fact that
there are like thousands of denominations of like Christianity?
Like, even those have like all these references and based on interpretations
and what they think of this and that and the other thing.
Like, are those all retellings of it?
Like friends, are all the different versions of the Bible, are they retellings or interpretations?
Or-
Sequels.
This is why there is literally things like the Testament according to James,
the Testament according to Peter, the Testament according to John.
This is why these all exist, but they all share the same basic stories.
They're just told in slightly different ways.
So what?
Are Wars suffers from the same repetitions and inconsistencies of your classic epic?
It does so in an extremely media-conscious society,
where every decision is held up to a Reddit-
Well then, surely, because if he's trying to argue it's because of our modern society,
it's like, well how come every film doesn't have this reaction to it then?
Like, surely we'd be dealing with this with all kinds of-
Not to say that we don't, there's lots of movies that this applies to,
but it's simultaneous, like just the easy go-to from even earlier on to try and match his argument.
Where's all the shit saying like 12 Angry Men is so inconsistent?
All of his rules are broken in the film, you know?
Terrible.
Like, nobody's saying that, or at least I haven't seen anyone say that.
Point being, it's just like, when it comes to Star Wars, it's like Arthurian Legends.
When it comes to things that make sense, it-
Oh, well, I don't know.
If I leave him alone.
Red microscope.
Viewed in this light, is it really all that surprising that the Rise of Skywalker hasn't
pleased everyone?
Star Wars is-
It's not about whether or not it pleased everyone.
Is the argument there that he's trying to say like it's hard for it to reconcile Force Awakens
and TLJ at the same time, because I agree with him.
But it's not like TROS didn't shit the bed on its own anyway.
Do either of you have any thoughts on such a thing?
It would seem Rags is having a call right now.
Oh, no.
This guy is saying a lot of words, but not very much.
He is speaking a lot, but saying very little.
Well, it's just like, it almost seems like a cop out to sort of be like, it's not going
to please everyone.
It's like, it's like when people say, yeah, okay, it's not perfect.
Like nobody, nobody wants everything to be perfect, right?
That's not-
Yeah, in a 13 minute video, he's basically reached the same conclusion that we all probably
would have reached within the first 30 seconds in that you're trying to compare two things
that are fundamentally different, like the Arthurian legends, which were in a completely
different time and a completely different media and format and everything with modern
day Hollywood filmmaking.
And you're ultimately acknowledging the disparity between the two and the fact that you can't
really compare them and that really, you know, movies are held to a higher standard.
And that you've got a movie that ultimately turned out shit from a combination of bad
writing and, you know, poor oversight and having multiple directors telling their own
versions of something that was supposed to be a sequential story.
Like this is something we all kind of knew straight away, but like he's just come really
like full circle in how he's actually getting to it.
And it's just, it seems like kind of a pointless argument he's making.
I'm curious if he's going to say the word apology at any point in this, or if this is
just going to be, we're supposed to interpret that we're supposed to apologize because
inconsistency.
This is kind of a different version of plot holes don't matter, isn't it?
Yeah, I'm still kind of waiting for him to actually.
Because so far his entire use of author, basically.
Well, there are different versions of the same stories over there.
Like, therefore, plot holes don't matter in the current era.
What? What?
Just fucking what?
This is positioned as a modern myth and uses the same storytelling techniques.
And yet it's judged by a completely different or exacting standard than classic epic Smith.
It's judged by different standards because it's not the same fucking thing, is it?
Because it's in a different media.
Like, yeah, it's it's it's up for this is shape.
Why don't you judge the random bard's tail the same way you judge a corporation series of movies?
Oh, I don't know.
It's a good question.
And this is like what you said earlier, the analogy you gave about a bunch of guys in a pub
like telling a story, right?
It's like if three different guys were retelling the same event and they were all pissed and they
gave like a different version of events.
You know, you're not going to buy the story makes one of them candid.
Yeah, but you can't hold that to the same standard as a movie.
Like, it's just ludicrous.
Yeah, and but even still, if you had a bard telling a story of some kind or traveling,
it should fucking decides to do it, whatever.
But if they're like I said, he has a character die, and then they're just in the next scene
randomly, it'll be like, people will still have issues with that.
Like, it's not just because of modern sensibilities.
And you might be like, oh, well, yeah, those inconsistencies.
And I'd be like, oh, so it's not about being inconsistent.
That it's about the degree of inconsistency, which I probably agree with to a degree.
Like the standard one, like somebody, I don't know,
they socks are really high up in one scene, but then they load down in the next scene.
Be like, oh, yeah, whatever.
Yeah, what's more contemporary storytelling idioms mean that Disney has to maintain a
strict controlled canon for a franchise that seems destined to defy the concept.
The rise of Skywalker and JJ Abrams worked within the confines of expectation and epic structure
and attempts to conclude a saga over 40 years in the making across nine.
40 years in the making is a bit like, that's not really accurate, is it?
They started creating from 20.
Was it 12? They bought Star Wars.
All right.
What is this?
Yeah, plus the OT was never created with the idea that the story would be concluded
by a different company, like 30 years later.
Yeah, like the idea that the work has been going for 40 years.
It's like, no, it hasn't.
This isn't a combination of jack shit, man.
This is a combination of three or four years of Disney half person.
This is you watch the OT in the cinema with your dad.
You come home and he's really drunk suddenly and you ask him to give you the next three movies.
It's another night.
And he's like, the next three movies.
Yeah, okay.
So there's the Ray, you're like, what is the girl on desert?
She's gonna save the world.
Like, why?
Like, just shut up.
Dad, can you just go back to beating mom?
Bro, you got to hear about the palpitism coming back.
You're like, how did he come back?
Shut up.
He's back.
He's cool.
Magic, dark side.
God damn it.
Johnny, you're not listening.
Movies while also trying to satisfy a passionate and outspoken fan base.
Let's see.
Christianity 12.
Well, fucking Force Awakens managed it, didn't it?
Force Awakens was widely well received, at least at first.
Yeah.
Rogue One was well received.
It's just that everything started to drop off after that mysterious film, The Last Jedi.
I wonder why that is.
Do you guys think why that is?
I don't know.
I want to go back.
What did he say about Star Wars is destined to defy something?
Like, he said something.
He was talking about, like, structure and consistency and was like,
Star Wars is destined to defy canon or something retarded.
I think it was about-
Can nothing classic epic myths and legends ever work?
What's more, contemporary storytelling idioms mean that Disney has to maintain a
strict controlled canon for a franchise that seems destined to defy the concept.
The Rise of Skywalker and J.J. Abrams-
How is Star Wars destined to defy the concept of having a canon that makes sense?
Yeah, I don't see why.
It is.
No, it is.
Star Wars is defying the concept that things make sense.
Yeah, currently it is, but that's not because that's not what they-
This is the most hilarious thing.
You have this guy standing in front of J.J. and Ryan, operating to an audience, like,
oh, it doesn't make sense on purpose.
It's all stupid on purpose.
You don't understand, guys.
After we let-
And they just, like, cut him off.
And they're like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
It does make sense.
It does.
What do you-
Go away.
You have no idea.
He's an enormous man.
Our work is incredible.
It does make sense.
And then he's like, no, it doesn't make sense on purpose.
They just start fighting with each other.
You're defending us for all the wrong reasons, sir.
It's like, stop helping us.
Worked within the confines of expectation and epic structure
and attempts to conclude a saga over 40 years in the making across nine movies.
It wasn't over 40 years in the making.
Yeah, we went over that as bullshit.
He's trying to make this sound like this hiculian task.
It's like, it really wasn't.
You could have had a guy at his base would make a better fucking story
than what Disney did with all of them.
They're three and legend.
A thousand years in the making.
That's what he would say.
Wow, it must be really fucking good though.
That's probably shit.
They've been working on it for a thousand years.
Oh my goodness.
Wow, that guy is old.
Who made this, Noah?
He passed it on.
It's entire generation.
You just can't finish it.
Someone's got to figure it out every son in the generation.
And daughter.
I'm not keeping them out of it.
I'm sorry.
Whoa, the whole.
Passionate and outspoken fan base.
Let's see Christiane de Trois give that a try.
What do you guys think?
Do you want Star Wars?
Do you really want to know what we think?
Yes, I want Star Wars to stay faith to canon.
I would like it to make sense and be internally consistent.
I'm sorry if that makes me a bad person, but you're a fucking moron if you excuse this.
Star Wars being inconsistent with itself is resonance.
It was terrible.
It was destined to not make sense from the beginning.
It kind of sounds almost like this guy's just thought up certain phrases and stuff.
That's like, oh, that sounds cool.
And then he's just like, I'm going to drop it in wherever.
And it doesn't matter if it makes any sense in contexts.
Like, yeah, just sound good.
Yeah, it sounds kind of like, you know, he's watched some YouTube videos and just got got
some phrases.
Yeah.
And it's like, oh, I like this phrase, but he doesn't doesn't know what it means at all.
Or is this a faithful to Lucas's original vision?
Or is it more exciting when new authors interject new ideas?
It stops calling them new ideas.
It's like, it's fine if they put in new ideas, but they need to be consistent with
what has come before.
You can't break already established rules with your new idea.
Well, I remember the first complaints about the force Skype call coming in and a lot of
the defenses were like, you just want the force to never evolve or grow or change.
You just want it to be the same forever.
It's like, I don't know.
I just wanted to make sense.
I didn't know the force Skype call was a possibility.
That's all I don't want to make the entire plot happen.
Star Wars, you're going down a path.
I can't fall.
Let us know what you think in the comments.
As always, a huge we made you a handy video for you to watch.
Hooray.
You'll totally check it out.
I'm sure of it.
Thanks to our patrons for making our channel and podcast possible.
Hit that subscribe button.
And as always, thanks for watching.
He didn't tell us to ring the bell.
What the fuck?
I'm not going to subscribe.
Yeah.
Fuck you.
What do you take me for?
Am I joking to you?
Tell me to ring the bell.
Later.
We did it.
I feel enlightened.
Yeah.
They have that watch more thing.
Does it say Star Wars explained by Wisecrack to you guys?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But what do you mean?
What went wrong?
It's just resonance, bro.
Maybe that's the argument.
He's going to be like, nothing actually did go wrong.
He's more like, what went wrong with the audience?
Why didn't they understand this?
What was wrong with you?
The audience instead of Luke out there.
Who stepped out of line?
I want to read some of these comments on the video.
Top comment.
Well, some of these top comments we got.
It was a poorly written best without any creative vision.
That's the problem.
But you see the like to dislike ratio of this video.
This is where the fun begins.
The prequel memes have more staying power than all of the best parts of the sequel.
Oh, absolutely.
Maybe if we can ignore bad writing,
if we can compare it to stories where inconsistencies were a feature.
I mean, you naturally have this whole argument is so terrible.
The fact you have to go so far in order to make sequels look good says it all.
That's kind of one of the opening things we said.
It's like, might be in trouble.
First, we have to go back to King Arthur.
So next up, right?
Do you remember, right?
Way back when Mr.
Wolf's last podcast, we covered a guide to Star Wars, The Last Jedi.
Do you remember that?
I think so.
That video, I think let me have a look.
I'm pretty sure it did it did relatively well.
Like, you know, ratio wise, and I guess view count.
And so I think it inspired someone else to to make one for the rise of Skywalker.
And they called it a guide to Star Wars, The Rise of Skywalker.
Oh, boy.
Let me top off my dranklet chair and we'll delve into because I feel like after watching
The Rise of Skywalker, I need a tour guide next to me.
Let me just explain how this film works.
Like, like the little earpiece that you click the next button when you get to the next scene
and it explains to you what the fuck's happening.
Yeah, you'd be in the cinema.
They show Palpatine that you have to press a button and it pulls and goes,
would you like to know more that you press the button?
It says Palpatine is a clone.
After he was killed in the Death Star, he managed to make his way to a local planet
in which a clone facility was engaged.
His spirit entered a one of many clones and he was operating himself until the body was unable
to sustain the power of Palpatine.
And so he started to fall apart and made his way to Exegol in order to say sustained upon a machine.
And that's where he met Kylo.
Reads plus play.
And you do.
Except you met Kylo in The Force Awakens, right?
Oh, fuck, I don't care.
Like, I don't know if it makes any sense.
I'm just saying that, like, every single minute of watching the film,
you have to pause and listen to a guy explain.
Novels are just direct fucking contradictions.
Dude, they don't elaborate on it.
They're like, no, we're just going to change that.
Like, they don't know which way is up.
And it's like, would you like to know more?
You hit pause, you look at the timeline.
It's like an hour explanation for how that's a possibility.
Would you like to know which way is up?
Drop something.
It's the opposite way.
He's like, oh, yeah, that's helpful.
People are arguing.
It's like, well, what if the gravity was fucked?
And then if you go up according to that, you might go into the ground.
It's like, okay, look outside then.
Just look outside.
I wouldn't even give that.
It's like, no.
How are you standing on the floor if gravity fucked up?
What if gravity spoke up?
Gravity only works one way.
Oh, man.
That film's so bad.
Do you remember how they conclude that because the stupid tower has been
destroyed that they're going to reset it?
It's like, why don't you just turn the other one on?
You fuck.
Yeah, but Finn had a feeling.
Reset it.
It's like if your car blows up and it's like, oh, shit, reset it.
The wheels fall off.
You're like, press the reset button.
Oh, my God.
How did that even happen?
Like, I get that he was probably rushed, but geez, JJ.
You're dealing with the idea that you've got to have an enormous army for the visual,
but also defeat it very easily.
It's tough.
I'll give it like I can picture him having a headache in a writer's room,
being like fucking don't know how to beat them without it being stupid.
And you're like, you could still have done better than what you did.
And then the bad guys forgot which way to go.
And in the leaks, I feel like we've talked about this before, but like in the leaks,
I could have sworn the leak was like it destroys the quote unquote mothership
style thing and the rest of them blow up or whatever.
And it's like, that sucks, but fine.
It's like, no, it's worse than that.
They don't know how to go up and they need the mothership to tell them how to go up.
And you're like, oh, why?
Why?
Oh, why would you build a tower on all of them?
I actually wrote this down somewhere.
I'm trying to find it in my notes, but they actually contradict that in the,
in the film already.
Like they actually show one of the star destroyers go somewhere.
Like it, like really low to a planet.
Yeah.
Cause it does one of the planets and it somehow gets away.
That would have that had the towel.
I don't think it did though.
Cause I think it was one of the other ones.
Borrow the tower for like one mission.
They had to bring it back.
Like bring it back.
The other star destroyers aren't going to be able to do shit.
Do you love the other rule though?
That shields don't work in atmosphere.
That's the most like mind blowing one.
Like, why would you even?
Oh, it's again, that's another one which is contradicted by so much stuff.
Not only to the little bike things that the first order have, have shields in the force.
The force awakens.
Finn even shouts at Ray.
Can you put the shields on when they're in the fountain and she reaches for the control
and says, no, not without a co-pilot.
So Finn knows that shields can work inside an atmosphere.
How about a star killer base, a planet that has a planetary shield.
Yeah.
It's like a star kill base.
It has an atmosphere and it has, why can't Exegol have a shield?
Because if they have shields, then the heroes won't be able to win.
Like that is as simple as that.
I was about to say clearly they don't have enough resources,
but then I didn't say it because that's fucking stupid.
Oh my goodness.
Remember like the original trilogy.
Like there, there were shield generators.
There were, there were shields on the, like the shield generators on a hot.
Yeah.
I would love to know what aspect of an atmosphere means that shields don't work.
Yes.
Is it something particular to Exegol's atmosphere
because it's electrically charged or something like that.
Like interferes with the shields.
But the good guys get shields, right?
Do you remember Scarif shield, the one that was like around the,
there was like a space station or whatever it is around the,
why wouldn't you just have that Palpatine?
Like you make all that other shit.
Why wouldn't you have shields?
And if, if, if you're going to tell me, oh, it's because it's Exegol.
You just can't have shields on Exegol.
Why did he set up on Exegol?
Because that's where he landed after he exploded.
Oh, I want to see him flying through space and splatting onto the ground at Exegol.
Be like, oh, that was painful.
Oh, sweet.
There's a thrown in it trying to find which one is evil enough for him.
It's like a giant planet with a big like evil looking face on it.
He's like, yes.
Perfect.
Is this space cancer around it?
Yes, sir.
He's like, oh my God, that's so great.
Only just one, like one tiny little portion that people can just fly around.
Enough to scare people away from it.
I want to see.
Surely they won't be stupid enough to fly straight through it.
I want to see the millions of ships simultaneously flying through the space cancer,
the mold blowing up.
Sir, there's not enough room.
He's like, we got no choice, damn it.
We can't just go around it.
Sir, this is really ineffective.
He's like, shut up.
We throw enough ships at it.
Some of them will get through eventually.
This is how we were going to win this thing.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
That was the recovery period, by the way.
It's time to delve back in.
Ready?
Oh, I actually found it in my notes.
No, it's Kylo Ren's Star Destroyer.
It's his one.
It's not one of the fancy final order ones.
The fancy final order ones that don't know how to go up.
They're like, yeah, it's like Ren's Destroyer.
But does not have one of those cannons underneath.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
So it must be a final order one.
Yeah.
And I actually just, my note just says Ren's Destroyer hovers above.
How does it get off the planet if destroyers don't know why is up?
You know, maybe that's why they have to blow up the planet.
So they blow up the planet.
It's like, well, there's no longer gravity.
So there's not a planet there anymore to confuse.
You know, what's funny is if someone like who really defended this film
and you told them that you were like, oh, fuck would they know which way is up
if they're one of the final order ships out there in the middle of space?
And they're like, they could just look out the window.
You'd be like, you'd like slam the table like, what do you mean?
They look at the fucking what did you bring me?
What did you bring me?
All right, let's do it.
I first began this script as a response to one specific video about the rise of Skywalker.
The video in question, if anyone is curious, was full of that video's hour and 41 minute
long spoiler discussion featuring this title and this thumbnail.
I agree with that title and thumbnail.
I agree with it.
Yeah, I agree with the question mark because it's it's it's close between that and TLJ.
Yeah, I agree with the sentiment of the question being raised.
I agree with this.
I agree with this video's theme.
This image is perfect.
It nailed it.
And that I didn't respond well to this.
It should be a little apparent that I liked Rise of Skywalker more.
I'm so sorry than that.
Actually, I loved Rise of Skywalker.
Oh, oh, no, it's retarded.
It's time to experience this perspective.
Ladies and gentlemen, we thought we said this would happen, didn't we?
Right.
One day we'd be responding to a video essay saying they love this film.
You thought impossible.
You thought I'd have assumed that no human being could have possibly loved a film so
terrible and broken on every core fundamental level.
But you are overestimating the human race.
You proved us wrong.
Well, right.
I don't know.
Fuck it.
Let's go.
It took me a day or two to really digest what I had watched.
And I saw it on two consecutive days just to help me process it.
The first time was the night.
That's not a good sign.
I mean, I had to pay Disney.
I'm OK.
I'm OK with some films leaving you a little bit like, whoa, that was a lot to take in.
The examples I probably use are something like primer or even the prestige.
Actually, that can be a film that people go like, whoa, that was a lot.
Um, right.
So Skywalker is a confusing vomit and you're like searching through it, looking for anything.
Really, I must have just missed everything in it, right?
He finds like he's like, oh, my God, a golden nugget in the in the volume.
You're like, no, that's frozen pee.
And he's like, oh, the poo, the lemon ice, the lemon, the lemon poo.
I love lemon.
Second was the day after at a cheaper, smaller theater where there were so many open seats,
I was able to lay down with my head on the aisle seat armrest without bothering a soul.
Needless to say, the split of my viewings did help me a lot to process the movie.
Quite a lot, actually.
The clapping, laughing crowd.
I couldn't hear all the movies.
Appreciate the film in front of me more even when.
Oh, and there were things I had to acquire a taste for.
In the second doing in a much more lax environment,
I get to buy my this preamble seems very unnecessary.
Yeah, I watched the movie.
Tell me more about that.
I have to talk about King Arthur.
It's in the video essay playbook, I swear to God.
How many video essays actually just start and discuss the topic?
The rest of the so many that are just like, I want to see the movie.
And then I saw it again, and I was able to maybe he's going to bring this back and be like,
everyone needs to say, Oh, do you remember that when TLJ was coming out?
Loads of people were saying like, you have to see it more than once before really commenting on it.
Like, you shouldn't be trying to review the film if you've only seen it the one time,
because TLJ is a film you have to see more than once.
I remember being like, wow, is this like a marketing strategy or something?
Like, I'm not gonna go fucking pay to see that movie again.
Like, who would?
Well, there's lots of people.
Tension based on the scenes I knew would need to sink in a little more
before I really grew to love them.
Oh, you would say they were now.
So you had to grow to love.
So basically, you gave yourself stock homes.
And you just kept going into the cinema until you like Star Wars is good.
I'll like it.
If I just see it one more time.
Yeah, just one more time.
Just one more time.
This does come across that way a little bit.
Kathleen promise you I do love this movie.
Just as much as I love both the previous installments.
Oh, no, you like them all.
Wow.
They do exist.
Yeah.
To the sequel trilogy.
I didn't think it was possible to love Last Jedi and Rise of Skywalker.
I thought it was like mutually exclusive.
Maybe maybe that's what this video is about.
Including the Last Jedi.
You don't have to agree with anything I say in this video,
but it's the unending torrent of negativity.
The Star Wars fandom is so readily capable of producing your shit.
The movies are terrible.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm stuck all the way back at like you would be saying that if it was the reverse,
would you ever was just like, Oh, it's so awesome.
Having so much fun.
Like the unending praise it seems to be getting out of the fan base.
It's like, well, I guess some people probably would put it that way.
I don't know.
I just, I'm still, I just don't like how much negativity.
Well, no, criticism is considered negative is frustrating because
praise is considered positive.
When I think that's a, they're conflating.
If you criticize a movie that makes you a toxic fan.
You can't just have a negative opinion of something after having like a balanced view of it.
Of course.
I guess this guy is a desired.
You're just supposed to lie.
He must be.
If you love all three like, man, you just start.
I guess I wonder if he's going to say he didn't like a Star Wars movie.
I'm curious.
The original trilogy.
I would, I would, I would half expected to see the prequels.
A lot of people who like the sequel trilogy hate the prequels.
I wanted to try and shed a light on this film.
Maybe answer a few of the questions bothering this film's attractors.
If they'll listen, of course they don't.
We will listen.
We, we, we will go through every argument, sir.
Give them up.
Let's go.
Have to, and given how poorly most of my non-fake content does in this channel,
this idea may prove dead before it even gets me anywhere.
But I'm going to dip my feet back into the world of video essays
and attempt to stifle a little of people's hatred for this movie.
In the process, who knows?
Maybe I can convince some people to give it another shot.
I gave it, I gave it a shot.
I gave it, I gave it two shots.
I, when I was reviewing it, you know, I.
You don't want to give this more than half a shot.
Maybe just not at all, actually.
I wish I had a full shot of alcohol.
Alcatisms.
Huge disclaimer here as well.
This video is going to be riddled with spoilers.
And while I don't intend to use any non-trailer footage from episode nine,
I will have screenshots of it here and there,
sometimes of pretty key moments.
Audio clips as well.
So be warned that if you're not seeing this film.
Great!
You are going to give evidence for your opinion.
Yeah, that's for sure.
Great!
Good!
I support you in this.
I am being positive.
We're praising the video right now.
Good stuff.
Yeah, I'm glad you let all those people know that you're going to be
potentially spoiling the incredible plot of The Rise of Skywalker
so they can experience it on their own.
This video will thoroughly spoil it for you.
I do recommend you watch the film at least once before watching this.
With that being said, let's dive in.
Here's a funny thought.
Rey has a villain's backstory.
And even if JJ does decide to give Rey a proper bloodline,
it doesn't change the fact that she grew up with no one and nothing and had only herself.
Let's...
Wait a minute.
It's like a video in a video in a video.
I think he's presenting an argument by looking at other people.
Because I kind of do this sometimes in my videos.
But I was just going to look at what...
This is cinema wins, right?
Because...
Maybe.
Well, we've covered him...
We covered him once, right?
We're going to cover more in the future.
We got joker stuff to do soon enough.
No one and nothing.
All right, there we go.
If JJ does decide to give Rey a proper bloodline,
it doesn't change the fact that she grew up with no one and nothing and had only herself.
She had only...
I don't know. There's a lot of people there.
Sounds like she kind of secluded herself.
Well, this is the thing that I think...
I can't remember if I've talked about it yet in my videos.
But now that we know the third film, I definitely have to.
Who was Unkar Plutt to her?
Was he significant?
Was he literally her dad for like 20 years?
Yeah, I mean, who did her parents give her to him specifically?
Yeah, why the fuck did they give her to him and sell her into slavery?
Which is what we were told, right?
Yeah, and she got no friends.
She didn't make any friends of all the people there.
You'd think that they'd stick together or form groups or something for safety and camaraderie.
But I guess she didn't. Did she just not want to fit in?
So many questions.
I mean, Luke had friends.
Thing and had only herself.
Here's a hot take.
Rey being a Palpatine doesn't contradict the themes of The Last Jedi.
It expands upon them.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
Okay.
Right.
Interesting.
All right.
We've got a very special job today, gentlemen.
We're gonna have to defend the idea that the rise of Skywalker contradicts
the themes of TLJ despite the fact that we think the themes of TLJ are broken.
Well, okay.
That's our task.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay.
If we separate like our feelings about the movie from this completely and just go on
the premise that The Last Jedi is correct when it says Rey is nobody.
The theme being that anyone can be a powerful Jedi.
It has nothing to do with families or bloodlines,
even though that was something I fully believe the prequels covered.
Yeah, I thought that was pretty clear.
In fact, I thought that was blatantly obvious.
Because discovering Rey's identity from my point of view was always about trying to explain her
power and the implication being if you're from the family line of a really powerful Jedi,
it gives you like a step up.
Just give you a bonus.
But The Last Jedi does actually say that bloodline matters because Snoke even says to Kylo,
I saw something truly special.
The potential of your bloodline.
So Snoke even says that.
Maybe I think TLJ fans would say, yeah, but Snoke was wrong.
But Snoke was speaking essentially as Palpatine.
Yeah.
The most experienced and elderly fucking character in this universe.
Well, I don't know if he's older than Yoda.
I assume he is.
I don't know.
Maybe not actually who fucking knows.
Either way, let's pretend for a second that that is the point of TLJ and that they nailed it.
Does TROS counter that?
So for me, it's too surface level.
It's like, oh, so she's a Palpatine.
That means you've ruined the idea that anyone could be a Jedi.
It's like, no, it just says that she's a Palpatine, doesn't it?
Yeah, that just is like, if anything, it's just she's you can be extra good because of your
bloodline, but also have the potential to be a Jedi regardless of bloodline.
It just sort of implies that really, really good Jedi are already in really amazing bloodlines.
Because this is new territory for us.
We're like the defense lawyers for TLJ, but we don't like our candidate at all.
Our defendant.
Whatever.
We just said that we don't like you.
We would rather prosecute you.
And it's like, you have to defend this argument.
But I don't even believe this argument.
This argument is poopy.
If Rise of Skywalker had been better made and you did have Ray, you know, she is Palpatine's
granddaughter.
Okay, does that factor into then her temptation to the dark side and and her the idea that she's
not all good and that she could be tempted to actually come around to his way of thinking and
actually willingly serve him.
If the character had been better developed, you could have played on that.
But there's none of that in this.
So it fails in what I think was one of the key things that was trying to put forward about
her that she is.
I can fall for the dark side, though.
And I can be conflicted.
Not to this extent.
If you've really I think I think what they're putting forward here is like if you are Palpatine's
granddaughter in some way, you're you're more prone to go towards the dark side because he was.
Yeah.
But is is that because is that knowing your lineage or is that just because intrinsically
if you're part of that, you'll be more at a true position towards the dark side.
Well, we know that we know the film's position on that, don't we?
We know the film's position on that is that it doesn't matter at all because she becomes a
Goodman quote unquote.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
But but she goes straight for the seaweed, but evil.
Apparently, that's not a badminton thing to do that.
Well, because I've always been confused by that scene.
He's like, you went straight for the dog.
It's like she didn't do fuck all.
She was just like, oh, there's there's a hole in the island.
What's that over there?
Yeah, it didn't even know what it was trying to say about her.
But then if you contrast that with like the original trilogy where Luke is
dark is Anakin's son.
And again, he's got the same conflict of like, you know, he is tempted by the dark side.
He he almost gives into his anger and so on.
And the two of them are in that constant back and forth trying to pull each other towards
the light or the dark.
And it's part of their lineage of, you know, I'm Darth Vader's son.
I could fall to the dark side just like he did.
I've got the same inherent flaw in me potentially.
So I think they could have gone with that with Ray and they were hinting at it,
but they just didn't know how to execute it.
Um, to refocus in aid of this this video, I guess.
For me, if you had because Broom Boy still exists, right?
And a lot of people would say Broom Boy was like the film definitively saying,
see, everyone could be a Jedi.
And it's like, yeah, we already knew that.
The Rise of Skywalker doesn't fucking go visit Broom Boy
and then establish that he didn't use the force to pick up a broom.
It was just a string that he pulled, you know,
like it's not trying and it didn't outwardly say
you have to be a part of a bloodline to be.
No, he could have been a Palpatine.
Yeah, Broom Boy could have been a Palpatine.
You're right, actually.
He could have been a Palpatine.
So this is kind of what I'm getting at.
Like, I don't know that TROS takes a definitive stance.
It just made her a Palpatine because I don't know.
I think JJ assumed that would be the most interesting thing to do with it.
Maybe.
Create some conflict.
Because, you know, what do we get as a result?
Scenes where she's like, oh my God, am I an evilman?
Am I an evilman?
I might be an evilman.
And you're sitting there in the cinema like, no, you're not.
No.
You're not going to do anything.
Come on.
Like, imagine they had a scene where they're just fucking killing it as a people.
I'd be like, how?
That would be a problem because, well, more reasons than one.
But I was just going to say in terms of like establishing,
yeah, if you're a Palpatine, you're just evil.
That's just how it works.
But we didn't, you know, we didn't get that.
So maybe we're going to end up agreeing with him
that it doesn't contradict the Thebes of TLJ.
Because I don't know.
I don't feel like making her a Palpatine means that no one can have the force unless
they're part of a family bloodline.
That's kind of what it might be.
The theme hasn't been explored enough to make a definite.
On the plus side, I found I did write a kid in in my review of that film.
My note is broom kid is stupid.
Fuck you, Ryan Johnson.
Mm hmm.
Sums up.
That's that's just what I had.
That blood isn't everything.
And you don't have to have a hero's backstory to be a hero.
Anyone can have the force.
And is it the last Jedi in Rise of Skywalker knew that Ray being a sis granddaughter
would muddy that water.
They future proof that lesson with a broom kid at the end who is in every sense of the word
a nobody.
Yeah, but we don't know that.
Here's the thing.
Yeah, that's what we're talking about.
Like that was that was Ray Ray was a nobody up until they decided she wasn't.
Yeah, like broom kid could be anyone.
Yeah.
And like, it's so many.
He doesn't get Star Wars.
He's not familiar with it because he's like, this is a big revelation.
He's like, No, it's not.
No, you see the amount of races and aliens and versions of all different kinds of Jedi
that were in the prequels.
Like, I don't think anybody thought that all of their litiges light up to either a
Palpatine and Obi-Wan Kenobi type or or a Skywalker.
It's like all of them come back to that.
It's like, uh, unless you want to make the argument that all of them come from blood
lines that are all Jedi and Sith and that once all of them get wiped out, there's no
more Jedi and Sith.
You should be like, what?
How did that even get started?
Rise also expands upon this with Han Solo showing up as a force.
He wasn't a force ghost.
He wasn't just a memory.
Yeah, he was.
He's a memory made manifest by Leia magic force power.
Yeah.
What was the explanation that she managed?
She used her own memory and memory of Kylo's memories of Han to generate him for Kylo.
I didn't understand that when I saw it.
I just saw that Leia reached out to Ben and then he got cheapshotted and stood up.
And then he was just remembered so low for some reason.
I didn't think that Leia was connected to that at all.
My assumption was just that Kylo was just seeing shit and he was thinking about.
Yeah, that's it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was very I think when we were reading through the some of the leaks and info that
were coming through or posted on like Reddit and stuff, one of those things that JJ hated
was the fact that in their cut, they made it really ambiguous as to what was happening
when in his version, it was supposed to be really clear that it was her doing it.
I mean, I think it might have made more sense if Kylo got stabbed by Rey and then he was like
laying on the floor, then the vision and then she healed him.
But I think that might have made more sense.
Perhaps because it'd be like, oh, you're dying.
What do you do with Rey that whole time?
Is she just standing there or?
Maybe I was standing there going, Oh, no, Leia's dead.
I think they had to have partied ways before he could have his revelation that we'd ultimately
redeem him.
Right.
Yeah, but if he was a good man before she left, he'd be like, Hey, great.
I'm a good man now.
Leia died and that's what made Kylo stop.
So how would she then use her force power to make the memory of Han Solo?
Yeah, that was my first interpretation of it.
I was just I don't get it.
I don't understand why he had that hallucination.
I will now in the sequels, I guess, like I said before, being dead is kind of an advantage
if you are a Jedi.
So maybe her force ghostness, like from the grave, she used her force powers to influence him.
But they just didn't have the budget or the care to make a force ghost version of her.
I'm surprised this guy is referred to him as a force ghost because that just
fucks with everything.
If you believe this is a force ghost, that fucks with everything.
Yeah, since the word a nobody.
Rise also expands upon this with Han Solo showing up as a force ghost and Finn feeling
Rey's death or the force.
Anyone can still have the force.
It's just that once he thinks that Han Solo is a force ghost, therefore anyone can have the
force.
Dude, that would be the force ghost everywhere.
They're all just walking around like, oh, fuck it.
Yeah, like they'd always be influencing everything.
God, could you imagine all the time?
Everything would be a massive tug of war by invisible spectral armies.
Like what can the force ghosts fight each other as well?
Oh, God, it just never ends.
Can they Doctor Strange it?
It's like a dodgeball game.
But when you're out, you can throw balls from the outside.
Just like, yeah.
What's the point of knocking them out?
Like, I don't know.
Fuck it.
Stay shit that I guess.
Just imagine you'd be a pain in the ass, like you're sort of driving to work and it's like,
oh, shit.
The ghost armies are fighting and they just run up the road at each other.
They're like, oh, fucking ghost artists, dude, where the astronauts are like moons.
What millions?
In a perpetual internal battle, aliens arrive and they're just like, what is what?
Why do you all have glowy sticks?
What is this?
A specific example has been changed while like three still remain totally intact.
Also, what's the point of him specifically saying he's force sensitive of everybody is?
Some people definitely aren't.
I guess his argument is that that's proof that everybody is, that Finn is, like, not really.
Yeah, well, well, that is it's the other stuff.
But with so, like, not everyone can use the force.
Some people are specifically force sensitive, but a force sensitive person can come from anywhere.
It's like Ratatouille with being a cook.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This matches and similarly, anyone can make a difference.
He might just be saying that because he thinks the force is something about destiny.
So crazy, because this video seems to be directed to people who hated the film because
they loved the TLJ.
So this is this isn't like meant for us.
It's so interesting to watch.
Because we're just like, on the sidelines, like boo to both sides.
Neither of you guys to win.
And similarly, anyone can make a difference in the grand scheme of things.
Anyone can be a rebel.
Anyone can be a rebel.
Yeah, that's not exactly news.
Is it Ray has just been used to explore another element of this lesson.
One that goes a little farther than The Last Jedi.
The lesson of the second film is you don't have to be special to be,
well, special.
And even later in Rise of Skywalker, when you say that they reinforce that, like,
really tell me where you're supposed to mean that you don't have to be special to be special.
So, like, conceptually, we'll ignore the clusterfuck that creates.
And go into.
So what was.
So Han was force sensitive because he just was.
Or what did he do that was force sensitive?
I don't think there is any.
I think he his idea that Han is force sensitive comes from his misunderstanding
that Han was a force ghost as opposed to a delusional hallucination.
Yeah, because Han they they very deliberately do not present him
with the blue hologrammy ghost.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's specifically I think that was so weird is because he he acted like one,
but he didn't look like one.
And I was at that point wondering, is this Disney fucking with us or making a mistake
or like I the meta aspect of it entered into my assessment of what I saw.
They have Kylo say you're just a berry like.
Oh, OK. All right.
I always felt like that was the film being like, this is not a force ghost.
This is not a force ghost.
And you're like, I understand.
I'm falling.
I'm picking up the lesson.
The second film is you don't have to be special to be, well, special.
And even later in Rise of Skywalker, Han and Finn both reinforced that.
But Ray proves something else entirely.
Even if your destiny was laid out before you,
even if you were supposed to be the next empress of the universe.
But you weren't supposed to.
I mean, like if if you ask Palpatine, sure.
But not if you asked anyone else.
Like, I guess the only the third movie that comes in like right at the end.
Yeah, like that's like this whole thing about destiny.
Is that even a thing in Star Wars?
Oh, somewhat because they had the prophecy for Anakin, I guess.
Yeah, it applies to Anakin, but that's about it.
It doesn't even apply to Luke.
People throw the word destiny around quite a bit in the movies,
but it's just their way of trying to motivate people.
Like it usually comes to nothing.
Yeah, it normally means like fulfill your potential.
Unless there's a literal prophecy where it's like you will do this.
Destiny like Palpatine had plans for her, but that's not her destiny.
Yeah, because she could just shoot herself in the head.
Do that.
Yeah, you know, well, I mean, she doesn't do those things.
You don't have to be special to be special.
Next, Empress of the Universe with evil power beyond any what came before you.
You can still be a hero instead.
Luke kind of taught us that lesson by being Darth Vader's son,
but Vader was still Anakin Skywalker at one point.
He was a Jedi first.
Need I remind you that when he betrayed the Emperor,
he was going back to the light, not to it in the first place.
Luke is a hero, even if he got bent the will of the devil.
Rey is basically the Star Wars.
He got bent the will of the devil?
Um, I'm not sure I follow that.
This is where he got bent to the will of a death.
So I think it's kind of, you know, Anakin was a fallen angel and then,
but he was still an angel because he returned to it.
The problem is this is several layers of argumentation.
We disagree with like with several layers back.
So this stuff is sort of just residue foundation.
We don't.
Yeah.
So we just sit there and even then it's just.
She still chooses to be a Jedi.
She still chooses to be.
Okay.
So you can't choose and have destiny.
Those things are not compatible.
Not to mention that her choice is so fucking not there.
What is your choice?
We don't know.
Become empress of the universe.
She's just like, I don't know.
Why would I want to be there?
Like we've got nothing to work with for why she would even care.
The thing is, though, she actually agrees until Kylo.
Kicked by the Knights of Raiden.
I always assumed that she's just toying with Palpatine, right?
Just delaying him.
Maybe.
She somehow senses Kylo.
I assumed that's what they were going for with that.
I don't.
The problem is Daisy really can't act.
Her facial expression is always the same.
So I can't tell what she's supposed to be feeling.
A hero.
Something's so strong with the blood.
Let's talk about Palpatine.
Was that line in the film?
Some things are stronger than blood.
Yeah.
Was it?
I don't remember that.
Most things are in the film.
Yeah.
Luke says it.
Luke said that.
The point is like, she's like, I'm a Palpatine.
Oh my God.
And he's like, it doesn't matter.
You can be a Goodman.
Okay.
I just didn't remember that line being in the film.
I was wondering if it was one of those, you know, trailer things that got cut.
Okay.
Me what the explanation for Palpatine being back is.
However, in case anyone was missing that context,
some of whom may even have seen the movie, but just not caught it.
Here's all the explanation you need.
You serious?
Really?
This?
Wow.
Okay.
Jay would be so upset about this.
Wait, what happened?
I missed the button.
Um, sorry, my watch together went all weird.
What time?
356 is where we're at.
All right.
Let me go to that.
356.
That is not 356.
Hold up.
I'm getting there.
356, right?
All right.
Is that where it's at for you?
Press play.
See if it pushes us there.
No, that's definitely not 356.
Um, because it just did autism with my watch together.
You, uh, is that working?
Yeah, I'm at 352.
You know, what's funny about using this as an argument?
It's like you realize that even in the film, you could tell it was fucking meme.
They were like, Oh, it just works.
Shut up.
That's what that is.
It's just, it just works.
It's just don't think about it.
It's just dark, evil stuff.
It just works.
It's evil.
I don't have to explain it.
Exactly.
Only evil people do it.
It's only things that even.
We already established in episode three that Palpatine knows the secret to immortality.
Um, how do you know that wasn't a lie?
Yeah, because he lied to him doing it.
He tricked Anakin as a whole thing.
Yeah, it's almost like he was just telling him what he wanted to hear
because he knew what his underlying fear was.
That's how you can manipulate him.
The important part that I think he's forgotten is when Anakin's like,
just help me save her.
And he goes, yeah, I'm sure together we'll figure it out.
It's like, what?
Wait, whoa, whoa, whoa.
You said you knew.
And he's like, no, no, I said that we could figure it out.
Yep.
This is like, I don't know.
Maybe I've got a stupid reading of the prequels,
but I always assumed the Palpatine was like,
ah, you, uh, you're concerned Padme is going to die.
Well, just putting it out there.
I know how to save it.
And you're like, you do?
And he's like, hm?
Yeah, maybe.
I mean, I guess he's going for the idea that at this point in time,
he knew the secret to immortality, which was basically just the dark side.
Are you going to reconcile that with the editing of this episode as well?
It's like, is he dead?
Is he really?
I'm so tired of this.
Their arguments are usually pretty weak as to how this makes sense.
But even if they win and they determine definitively that, yes, he is immortal.
It's like, how the fuck did you kill him?
You can still get killed by an explosion of Death Star.
That's the, that's the problem.
You go like, oh, he was vaporized.
It's like, like he was in episode six twice.
Like, you can't say this.
You can't.
And, uh, yeah.
Do not tell me that his hand lightning is more powerful than a star.
The Death Star exploding.
There's a clip of us talking about this in a previous effect before the film came out.
And I said, like, if they kill Palpatine in the new film, they're going to, like,
reduce him to atoms in order to try and convince us that this time he's definitely dead.
And it's funny because that's what they do, but it's still not enough.
You can't reduce him to atoms and conclude he's dead because you did that already.
Yeah, but this time it was dark power, sithness.
This time he did it to himself.
That's the only thing that can kill.
He's like Hitler.
All right.
The only person to kill Palpatine is Palpatine.
I love it as well.
It's like, how come the light digging into episode three just made him really ugly,
but in the next one he killed it.
Why?
It's like, because Ray used two lightsabers, obviously.
Idiot.
It's this supercharged lightning that can take out an entire.
Yeah.
Why, though?
Why any of it, though, I just get tired now when I think these movies and him being able
to survive an explosion of this scale.
Well, it doesn't really bother me.
What do you mean?
So I should bother you.
Well, we can't fucking do it.
He didn't survive.
He's looking at me as gas.
He's looking at me as gas.
He's not even in the picture anymore.
He's been vaporized.
Oh, like he's like, imagine you have like a an Olympic sized swimming pool and you
you drop like a little bit drop of ink in there and then it just turns to nothingness.
That's essentially what's happening here.
I just love the idea that you can bottle him.
You know what?
He's like, oh, it doesn't bother me that you survive.
It's like you wouldn't be bothered by fucking anything then, would you?
Like you just do it.
He just becomes a T-Rex.
You're like, I don't know.
Well, at this point, let's just hand wave away anything by saying it didn't bother me.
That's what just right used to do.
Well, it bother me two years ago.
I think now God's on my sunset.
Yeah.
Well, to be honest, this is a universe.
We're getting cut in half.
Doesn't kill you.
Shut up, you fucking retard.
People get cut in half in real life and survive.
They can't get vaporized in real life.
You cannot survive getting destroyed twice on such an insane level.
Survive D residents.
Okay.
D residents is permanent.
This is like in Star Trek.
When you get hit by a phaser and you just, you just vaporize, right?
You can't survive that.
There's just nothing.
There's nothing even left of you.
I don't know.
It makes sense.
They can't even scrape anything together to put into a little box.
You're just gone.
You can just deep de-thinged.
Palpatine's coffin just has its cloak.
Oh my god.
This guy's a god dead father to me that he survived.
He knows the secret to immortality and him being able to survive an explosion.
I gotta go.
No, it doesn't really bother me.
He still hasn't turned his light to know.
He just doesn't know how to do that.
He's got a real problem with that.
It's like three significant times.
It's like the one power he hasn't learned.
Like once you start, you just can't stop.
That's what fucking, isn't that what drinking, you said that like
after we just see the movie.
Yeah, it's like trying to stop pissing midstream.
Like it's like, well, I can try.
Oh my god.
Peas all over your face just because you're permanently.
I just got to go till I'm empty.
Oh, this video shit.
Yeah, yeah.
To be honest, this is a universe we're getting cut in half.
Now that's our universe.
We see there's plenty of wreckage to be used as protection here.
You can't do that.
Wreckage left is like, well, then I guess no one dies in car accidents.
There's so much wrong with that argument.
It's like, first of all, they invented that.
It was destroyed.
It was vaporized as well.
Secondly, there was plenty of wreckage to survive the explosion inside off.
What do you mean?
No, now that that adds an even different aspect to where he survives the trip inside of it after
being exploded and then exploded again.
He's still alive inside the wreckage as it plummets the planet.
He's hanging on for dear life.
He's going through the atmosphere.
He lands in the ocean.
He's in the galaxy, grabbing onto like a pole.
He's like, what a shitty day.
What a terrible day.
It's like after a week of traveling through space.
Why does this happen to me?
He's like, am I a bad person?
All of it crashes.
He survives.
He's just like, Jesus Christ.
Luckily, he had this nice soft ocean to break his fall.
Come on, dude.
Like your brain, the cognitive dissonance is exploding.
This doesn't make any sense at all.
At this point, then it lands.
Things calm down.
He starts swimming.
I'm just picturing doing doggy paddle the whole time.
He's like, I never actually thought I'd have to swim.
First things first.
Let's carve a knife that suits the wreckage as number one priority.
This person has honestly submitted that the wreckage of the deaths are
explicitly velvety survived.
He's swimming across the ocean.
He's thinking about his days in the Senate where he was nice and comfy and everybody
loved him.
He's like, what is fucking happened?
This is a shock.
He's like, no, no, no.
I'm like, he's in water and he's so.
He rides the entire planet.
The entire ocean.
The whole ecosystem is a million.
It's the fucking shocks for everyone who survived that that wreckage plummeting to
the planet and picture like this really sad Palpatine holding a fish.
He's dead.
My first friend on this new planet and I killed him.
How come all my friends die?
He's really against animal cruelty.
It's more of a like he's okay with human suffering, but so that I could never kill
another animal.
I'll go to a planet where there's no.
Sir Exegol has no wildlife because it's a piece of planet where nothing lives.
I want to live on a planet where nothing lives.
It's the only planet worthy of me.
I'm going to make my own life.
Snoke clothes.
This whole thing.
I'm going to explain it over time.
Oh my goodness.
I think this video is actually broken our brains.
I mean, this desperation is like, he makes sense though.
It makes sense.
I swear.
Like, like, I want to just a movie of where Palpatine gets up to between episode six
and episode nine, like where he goes.
Like he's a traveling bard or he's hitchhiking across the galaxy.
Like, please, you wouldn't believe who I am.
I just need to get to Exegol.
Have you heard of it?
I've heard nothing lives there.
I should go there and make a clone.
What are you going to call this though?
He just has this all planned out.
He's just like, yeah, I figured if ever this happened to me,
I'd make a fucking clone call it Snoke.
I don't know.
He's, he's swimming away from the Death Star and he gets on to some deserted island.
It's just right down all these plans.
It's like cast away, but with the help.
What would be the Wilson equivalent?
He's got a little beach ball and he puts Vader's helmet on the beach.
The Wilson would be Vader.
Oh yeah, that's right.
That was easy.
I guess elite coconut.
Vader's force ghost been watching him the whole time.
Like you're a fucking embarrassment.
He's like, shut up.
You died.
You're more embarrassing.
How come you didn't survive those two explosions?
Yeah.
How come Darth Vader didn't survive?
He's not as force force tisms as palpitisms.
Let's see.
It makes sense.
Oh my goodness.
And clearly, yeah, let's let's wind him back.
He doesn't look fucking unscathed.
Yeah.
Well, it doesn't really bother me to be honest.
This is a uniform.
I don't mean to just press on this, but how does it not bother you?
First, we're getting cut in half doesn't kill you for evil enough.
We see there's plenty of wreckage to be used as protection here.
And clearly he didn't survive unscathed.
Palpatine is physically blind, deforms to the point that he's basically a dead man walking.
He has to maneuver.
Well, I'm sorry to break it to you, dude,
but the new visualization, the novel or whatever says he's actually a clone.
That's not the original because the original got destroyed.
Yeah.
Sucks, doesn't it?
When those I like this point as well, he's not strong guys.
He's not like healthy when he's like, okay.
This is storytelling.
Checkmate right here.
Like doesn't matter what you do.
It's going to be bullshit.
Well, this kind of logic, right?
Let's just give me a contradiction from TLJ Rags go.
Um, let's see.
Let's just start at the very, very beginning.
The first order really, really, really wants to destroy the resistance,
but they don't just destroy the radis.
They couldn't fire on the radis yet because the there's a technician working on making
the cannons aim forward.
They can only aim down at planets, right?
And so he's currently working on making aim forward.
He hasn't done it yet.
So they had to shoot the base first because they had no other choice.
Oh, fair enough.
I guess TLJ was really excellent.
I just didn't know.
That's my novelization.
It's called TLJ.
It makes sense.
Shut up.
And that's what I feel like he's doing right now.
It's like, hey, man, you know, if you think about it, there's all these things.
I don't know.
What else can we do?
Like the disappearing knife.
We like actually know a lot of weapons, holographic weapons,
and they run out of battery after a decent amount of time.
And unfortunately for that guard, his knife ran out of battery.
The moment he could have used it to kill Ray.
Ah, man.
It's all in the books.
You have to read the books.
You have to read the books.
Yeah.
What else is there?
Space chase?
Why they couldn't just light speed ahead to head them off at the pass?
None of those ships had light speed.
Despite chasing them through hyperspace.
No, that's not light speed.
No, they, they could use it once.
It could use it once.
And then it has to recharge.
This is where it gets really funny because if you do a correction.
You were too busy powering up the decloaking scans.
Imagine you're reading the book and it says they had no hyperspace.
And then later on, it says, no, wait, no, they had one.
Like this is very poorly written.
Randomly correcting it.
Around on a crane.
We also get to see a potential explanation for what dark side force power kept him alive
all these years.
No, he steals life from all kinds.
Probably from those weird acolytes.
That's what he's been doing.
He's been eating them for your life force, please.
Good thing.
I have all these acolytes that we've just created for this movie.
So I can suck the life force out of them.
When he got to that planet, it was just a bunch of dudes that he's like,
do you want to be my acolytes?
He's like, yeah, sure.
I don't know.
We don't really do much here.
So, so basically I'm going to tell you this may involve me sucking it.
I just Palpatine basically just showed up to Exegol to become a truck stop crack whore.
He just lives by sucking off random people that come by.
State of Star Wars.
Hey, well, it makes sense though.
Makes sense though.
Totally.
Ray and Kylo.
This works way better than he expected it to because of their dyad nature in the force
and raw power.
But assumedly, if he was doing this on normal people or weaker force users,
it would only heal him so much.
You are extrapolating.
You're making shit up.
Desperation.
You're fucking making shit up.
You were just making shit up.
Just admit it.
Normal people, normal force users, they can only heal them a certain amount.
But a dyad, that's like super energy for him and it gets him back to normal.
Just the average day of Palpatine, he wakes up, grabs one of those acolytes,
fucking sucks him dry.
Next one.
So you have a cup of coffee in the morning.
He has like an acolyte.
Well, if he's been there for, if he's been there for, I don't know how ever many years,
and let's say he gets three meals a day since three acolytes a day.
Dude, those acolytes was fucked like buddies.
Oh my god.
He's in horrible shape.
He'd be rotting away almost as quickly as he could heal it.
And as such, he'd be desperate to continue the Sith beyond him.
Yes, you really should write the novelization, dude.
Go for it.
Get in there.
Yeah.
This is precisely the kind of people to learn.
But he doesn't want to continue the Sith.
He doesn't want to continue the Sith.
He wants to continue himself.
It's not the same.
I am all the Sith.
That's a lie, isn't it?
If he dies, his ambition might still live on.
This would also go away as to explaining why Padme died in Revenge of the Sith.
If Vader was stealing her life for us to maintain his own,
and oh hey, look, I'm not the first person to say that.
Something I've always found interesting about this scene is the time.
What?
No, I thought the theory was that Palpatine would have drained her life
and gave it to Vader.
Why would Vader deliberately kill Padme to save his own life?
That wouldn't...
Yeah.
That's retarded.
Surely with all of the Jedi getting killed and purged,
you'd think he'd have plenty of them to feed off of.
Also just random fucking acolytes again.
Just bring them in.
Yeah, I'm just like anyone.
Bob, come in here.
Bob has displeased me.
Timing of Vader's birth and Padme's death.
Vader was dying.
Why are Bob's clothes lying here on the floor, sir?
No reason.
Put them in his coffin.
He fell down a hole.
He took his clothes off and jumped out the window.
It's very strange.
Don't speak of this to anyone, though.
He said he wanted to keep it between us.
He said, Tim, they could find a way to beat death together.
What if, in his struggle to save him...
I like how Palpatine across all the V-Fab is just this goofy fucking character to us.
And then episode nine comes out and is like, yes, your fate is sealed forever.
Stay alive.
Vader used the dark side of the force with Sidious' help to actually take Padme's life.
No, why would...
Why the fuck would he...
He wouldn't act...
What?
His whole motivation was to save her life.
He wouldn't...
Why would he ask if she's okay?
He would know he killed it.
Plus, like, to drain the energy out of someone,
don't they have to be, like, physically next to you so you can do it?
Like, you can't do it from half the galaxy away.
No, you can just literally kill people at will.
That's a pretty useful skill, I suppose.
Yeah, you'd think Sidious would use that more.
You could win wars quite easily.
You see, you could only do it when you know the person's name and where they might sort of be.
Also, wow, talk about fucked up.
Imagine Vader drained her life before she gave birth,
killing the twins and her to save him.
I'd just be like, damn, dude, you're a hardcore.
But yeah, I'm actually...
I think they probably should have gone with the idea that Sidious somehow did that.
The problem is just logistically, how is that possible?
He's got, like, this...
You know, like, the little visual they do of having, like, a stream of air
that goes from his hand to Rey and Kylo?
Like, that stream goes from his planet all the way through the universe
and connects to Padme.
And Yoda's like, what the fuck is that?
The droids are like, um...
But they had threw it up and down, like, I don't know what this is.
I feel someone's life from it.
There's a weird ghost tentacle that's come through the window
and it's going inside the pregnant woman.
My training didn't prepare me for this.
Is this a sexual thing?
I just wanted to touch you from across the galaxy.
There's nothing weird about that.
But you think it's weird?
I don't think it's weird.
It's post on the perfect thing.
I think more people would do it if they could.
Oh, you got a restraining...
I've got a power...
I am keeping my 200 meter distance away from you.
What are you talking about?
I'm on the way over here on X ago.
Yoda's like, oh, it's Darth Sidious.
He's like, no, no, it's not.
No.
John.
No.
John Sidious.
John Smith.
This is a mischievous idiot.
Lit.
I'm a change fan.
It would be perfectly fitting for the actual meaning
of the Darth Plagueis story to have the opposite outcome.
Vader's life was saved.
Sidious never said how it was done.
Also, the plan was never to save Darth Vader's life.
He never said how it was done.
He's on the fucking operating table.
Yeah, it's right there.
Machines and medicine.
The life-saving surgery saved his life.
He has the equivalent of a modern sci-fi iron lung
that he's walking around in.
This is like when people like have a problem with themselves
and they get surgery and doctors spend like 20 hours
in surgery to save them.
And they're like, oh, thank you.
Jesus saved me.
It was those people from the herbal medicine.
The herbal medicine.
It was my faith that healed me.
He's like, bitch, it was the 20 hour surgery.
He's a guy that was scalpel.
Like, really?
Okay.
He's like, really?
All right.
Well, you know what?
Just don't even pay us.
We didn't do anything.
Something the emperor doesn't see.
Saved me.
He's a really good surgeon from Mexico.
The idea he's like, he drained the life from Padme
with the help of Palpatine and stuff.
He's like, you didn't really do a good job, did you?
Was all of her life force really not worth that much?
Because look at you.
I don't know when he drained her life.
It didn't have all the big blue thing coming out of him
like it does in episode nine.
That's what I was saying.
It goes through the whole universe and connects to Padme.
You could just hear the emperor's voice echoing through
like, let this happen.
Oh, yes.
Let this happen.
Oh, yes.
Boar.
Boar.
Don't stop Padme.
Yes.
Accidentally hits the wrong place.
It's just some guy in the waiting room.
Yes.
Padme.
Guys, I feel tired.
I gotta take it off.
This is weird.
It's like a weird air tentacle chasing me.
I don't know.
You don't feel like someone's watching you and touching you,
but they're not.
Filth.
I've heard people saying this movie doesn't take risks,
but clearly that isn't the case.
Face!
What?
Who possessed them to think that was a good idea?
Touching you.
He's like, that's definitely a face I could expect to touch me across.
After all the fucking stories we've been generating about it,
doesn't that face just match it perfectly?
John Sidious.
And he just said like, this film took risks.
That's like one of those big go-kart moments.
It's like took risks.
It's like, I don't fucking care what risks it took.
How did it execute them?
The decisions to bring back Palpatine and relate right to him upset so many people.
This was probably the plan all along.
And I just-
No, it literally wasn't.
No, it wasn't.
No.
How do you conclude that?
This was probably-
Oh, because they nailed it so well.
It must have been the plan they had all along.
A fucking interview where he's like, yes,
JJ Abrams called me like early 2019.
It's like, oh, it planned all along.
He called me up.
He plans to make that call all along.
Don't think it ever changed in this general direction
the entire time they were planning these films.
No, what?
Oh, shit.
How do you conclude that?
These films hate each other.
These films pretend like the others don't exist.
If you're stuck between two completely unknown things,
then the one that's true is probably the one that you want it to be.
That's science.
I knew it.
Yep.
People like talking about how much JJ railed against the Last Jedi,
but they somehow failed to mention him saying he wished the movie was his idea.
But there was an arc-
Um, so-
No.
Do you have a general plan for the three films I've posted to LJ?
So first thing I would say to this guy is,
do you think there is a single fucking universe
where JJ would publicly admit that T.L.J. is not something he liked?
Do you think that's possible with how his stat-
So, uh, I don't know if you guys know about this, but the fan-
The fan- 4 stick guy?
The guy who, like, spoke out on Twitter about how much-
Is it Warner Brothers or whatever ruined his film for Fantastic Four?
Yeah.
He doesn't get work anymore.
Or at least not the work he could have gotten.
Um, this is, like, an unwritten rule that you don't shit on anyone publicly when you're in this business.
You gotta be very careful.
The fact that we got what Mark Hamill said is amazing.
Like, seeing that shit.
And the best you usually get is the kind of stuff you see from the Game of Thrones cast,
where they go,
Hey, what did you think of the season finale?
And then they give you a face, and then they go,
I really liked it.
It was so good.
It was great.
And then you have, like, why would Tyrion think that hiding in a crypt when you're being attacked
by the undead was a good idea?
And he's like,
Huh, yeah, you'd think that he'd be smarter than that.
This is the kind of one I'm getting at.
It's like, see?
Publicly, JJ said it was a good idea.
It's like, yeah, did you watch his film?
Where he said, like, a Jedi's weapon deserves more respect.
It's like,
Ooh, are you retarded?
Basically, I don't think citing an interview where he's promoting the movies is a good place
to decide where his sort of opinions lie about TLJ.
That's that's all I'm saying.
Except for the trilogy.
And JJ said he loved Orion's script so much, he was jealous he didn't make it himself.
He's taken something very different from that.
I wish this absolute retard had never come through this movie.
And I was just given it instead.
How does he explain the fact that he turned the holdover maneuver into a one in a million
shot that fucks with everything in TLJ?
He loves it so much.
He took like direct pot shots at the film.
He hated it so much.
He tried to reverse it.
I can picture.
He got rid of Rose Tico, basically.
Like, that was brilliant.
I picture this quote, like someone saying, like, did you like it?
And he goes, uh, yeah, it's so good.
I wish I was making it.
You're like, you sound a little bit angry.
And he's like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not me.
Wish I was making that film.
You're like, oh.
You OK there, buddy?
He's like, no, yes, yes, yes.
And that he was inspired by The Last Jedi to fucking ruin The Last Jedi.
Yeah, I think that you might be the only person on the planet Earth who believes that.
Yeah, this is a surprising take.
Most people conclude that not only did J.J. Abrams not like The Last Jedi that he actively hated it.
Thus, as evidenced by the scenes in the film he made shitting on The Last Jedi.
And again, it stands to reason that publicly he would be saying very
positive things about The Last Jedi because he wants to continue working in Hollywood.
I don't blame him for that.
I could imagine there's a lot of pressure to keep your opinions to yourself when you're that high up.
Absolutely.
Be bolder with his final film.
Rather than try to interpret Rise of Skywalker to mean something that builds upon the meaning
of The Last Jedi, the fans have been quick to assume that it contradicts those themes
just because of a few changes to the building blocks.
Just a few changes.
It literally does contradict so much of The Last Jedi.
The outright retcons parts of it.
Yeah, again, I've said it before, but I'll say it again.
Holdo's maneuver being one out of a million means that she was trying to escape.
And she failed.
But thanks for fucking with his idea that she heroically saved the day, J.J.
Again, I don't care because I think Holdo's a fucking terrible character
and that the hold of maneuver shouldn't even be a possibility.
But for those who love The Last Jedi, including Rian Johnson,
they're gonna be upset about that, aren't they?
Because they're gonna be like, dude, you just recontextualized my scene, thus destroying it.
Like, let's just put it this way, right?
It's not exactly one in a million, but if I had like a relatively sizable...
Well, I was just gonna say, like, fuck, I'll just use you, right?
So we're in a street, Ranks.
I'm a mile away from you in a straight street.
I'm gonna fire a gun.
It's windy, but I'm firing it like 90 degree angle away from you, like from me.
So the only way that bullets gonna hit you is like the harshest of fucking wids.
I don't even sure it would be possible at that point.
But let's just say those are the odds.
There's a hurricane.
There's magnets.
There's Luxembourg.
So yeah, again, you're a mile away and you're told this is about to happen.
So like, do you start running for cover?
If I see you making that shot, do I run for cover?
You're told I'm a mile away and I'm doing that.
I'm aiming at a 90 degree angle away from your direction, from my position,
and I'm gonna fire a pistol.
Are you concerned that bullet's gonna hit you?
No, I'm not concerned that bullet will hit me.
Well, it's weird because even though that's probably more likely than one in a billion,
I don't know, fucking, I'm not a physicist,
physicians, that's what they're called.
Hux seems to treat it as though it's a fucking guarantee, doesn't he?
Yeah, he does.
He is terrified.
Interesting for one in a million.
Definitely interesting.
That guy, I don't know, it's almost like he knows something that we don't know.
You know, I just thought it was like, this guy tells you that's what I'm doing, a mile away.
And then you just go, fucking fire on that man.
Like millions of shit is just a firing missiles at me.
And I'm like, Rags, what the fuck?
Disaster averted.
You could have hurt somebody.
Dude.
Specifically me.
You could have hit me.
From over here.
Playing the game even safer if this movie didn't attempt to pull the rug out from underneath you
at least a couple of times?
Say what you want about it, but I can safely tell you that I never expected Ray to be a Palpatine.
And after digesting the story a little, I can confidently say that I'm very fond of how this
changes the meaning of this trilogy.
A trilogy, by the way, that does have a through line.
It's a story of unlikely heroes who come from ledgers soaked in red.
Men and women who fought tooth and nail to make up for their mistakes and not succumb
to the darkness that created them.
Yeah, that's all well and good, but you'd have to go through each of them and then
realize how faultily written it all is.
So Luke's failures are just something we're told about.
Poe's failures aren't failures.
Ray's failures are being too nice.
Kylo's failures are he's confused.
What a great story.
Yeah, we've really got some and the one person who is actually evil and terrible.
No, he's he's not really, though.
But no, no, he'll be OK.
You talk about snow.
I talk.
Oh, I'm talking about Kylo.
But fuck it.
Why not?
Finn was a stormtrooper who tried to abandon the resistance.
Poe was a drug dealer who got he never abandoned.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
OK, never part of it.
So Finn was brainwashed and a slave to be like he's got red in his ledgers.
Like, that's not fucking fair.
That's he broke out of the brainwashing according to this series of movies in the
scene we see him in Force Awakens.
That was apparently the force waking him up, right?
Which it does with some people sometimes, which is a terrible fucking thing to say
about just oh, my God.
If the force is a character, you'd slap him.
What the fuck are you doing?
He's your dick.
So yeah, that's you can't say that about it.
Like, what has Finn done wrong?
Can anyone actually identify anything he's done wrong in this trilogy?
Outside of murdering the stormtroopers, but you could say that self-defense,
even though it doesn't make sense with this character whatsoever.
But whatever the fuck I don't know.
The stormtrooper who tried to abandon the resistance.
Poe was.
Oh, so his mistake was trying to abandon the resistance when his goal was to save Rey.
Remember that?
Another resistance when his goal he wasn't part of the resistance to abandon.
And he he was to save Ray.
Man, they should really do something with these two characters.
They seem to really have Finn especially seems to really care about her.
He's just that that's where he's identifying the floor for Finn is that he tried to abandon
the resistance.
He's leaving out the context that he did it to save Ray and that he didn't fucking
join the resistance.
You can't like, just like someone not getting involved in this war does not make them an evil
person.
I can even DJ is like, they just shoot at each other like these people.
At this point, we don't even know what the first order ruling would even be like.
Yes, the their assholes and killing everybody, but
they're doing that to search for Luke and they want to kill Luke so that he doesn't
prevent it's like this all this context we don't know about because they didn't do any
will building.
But you know, from Finn's perspective, he's like, yeah, you guys can fight your war.
I'm just trying to save my friend.
I even think that's one to one dialogue from him.
That saved my friend.
Yeah, Finn was a stormtrooper who tried to abandon the resistance.
Poe was a drug dealer who got a lot of people killed.
Poe was a drug dealer.
I I can't help but I have to put this on record now.
You guys in a month's time.
Oh my god, it's exactly a month's time now because it's April first for me as of as
of a minute ago.
Wow, April Wow, you're really far ahead.
No, in a month's time.
It's exactly a month's time from now.
That's crazy because I'm about to make a point that's entirely relevant to that.
I am releasing to April Fool's videos.
Moopa is I mean, he's gonna he's gonna have control of my channel for a day.
He's going to be releasing a good episode naturally, but he's also going to be releasing
a different video that I've actually shown rags already.
And without giving too much away, it's parodying someone.
And it's going to make a lot of arguments in favor of Rise of Skywalker.
And I actually say in the video that Poe is identified by being a drug dealer.
And people laugh when I say that, because it's bullshit.
Like it's made out of nothing.
He was he was a spice runner.
If anything, you can call him someone who dealt drugs maybe.
Wait, I don't mean like an actual drug dealer.
I think it's the connotation is the point.
We assume if he's in a world that's I don't know.
This is the other problem.
I can't even make these assumptions because of we don't know how long
the First Order versus the Republic were in charge.
We don't know if the laws were fair under the Republic, whatever.
He ran spice with those characters on was it Kojimi?
And so I say in my video that like, that's part of his redemption or his identity that
he's a drug dealer, even though it's essentially like a throwaway thing
in the Rise of Skywalker that didn't even have like relevance in the other films.
It's just there.
But like he's using it as like a legitimate thing.
I use it as a joke in my video.
So like a lot of people are saying it would be a he'd be a mule
rather than dealing it, moving it.
I mean, yes, but he's not sort of in that sense.
He's not so different Han Solo.
Yes, smuggler.
I don't know why he does it anyway.
This is the problem.
We have no context.
Calling him a drug dealer is just like, damn, dude,
you gotta be careful with that.
You don't know exactly what's going on there.
I'm surprised he went with that instead of the thing people usually go with, right?
That he failed in the beginning of TLJ because he was too arrogant or whatever.
My point was, I'm looking forward to you guys seeing that video
and that I make this point in it, even though it's a parody.
So you might think that I make that point to reference this video, but it's actually not.
But I just I love how things work out that way.
It's fun.
It's not succumb to the darkness that created them.
Finn was a stormtrooper who tried to abandon the resistance.
Poe was a drug dealer who got a lot of people killed even after he came to the light.
That was cool.
Got people.
He got people killed.
People get killed in wars.
He got a lot of people killed after he came to the light,
implying that like any kind of smuggling job means you're a bad person.
Wait, who are we talking about right now?
I'm Poe.
He got a lot of people killed and he said even after he came to the light,
I find it so weird to refer to that as coming to the light.
Coming to the light.
Yeah, that is really weird.
As if if you're a spice runner, you're just a bad person doing it for bad things.
Got a lot of people killed.
Every general gets people killed.
Well, I mean, how many times have we been over this?
This is not a mistake in this opening.
If anything, he did incredible with the tools he had at his disposal,
which are these shitty bombers.
Half a TIE fighter kills three of them.
It's insane.
They're like the worst things ever and Poe managed to destroy the Dreadnought,
which he confirms as a fleet killer.
They'd all be dead if not for what he did.
And then the resistance.
Poe was a drug dealer who got a lot of people killed even after he came to the light.
Rey was supposed to be a Sith Lord.
Yet because of the good in them and they're supposed to be this.
He said there's red in their ledges and he described she's supposed to be a Sith Lord.
That's not red in her ledger.
That's the weird destiny that some guy told her she has.
Yeah, you can't say your father was a bad person.
That's a mark on you.
Like if we're going to take all the other arguments seriously,
it's like, Poe, you abandoned the resistance.
No, sorry.
Finn, you abandoned the resistance.
Poe, you got a whole bunch of people blowed up.
Rey, that guy over there says you're going to be evil.
She's like, what?
Why is that a...
What?
That's not...
He's like, you all need to redeem yourselves.
Go kill that guy.
Pretty much.
Fuck him up.
Show him who's boss.
Bonds, all three of them became heroes in their own right.
That is not meaningless.
And speaking of villains becoming heroes.
Meaningless.
I did not take your hand.
Ben's hand.
Let's talk about Ben Solo.
Okay.
Kylo starts this film just as unhinged and angry as he was in The Last Jedi.
As he finishes?
Kylo Ren is exactly the same in every movie.
He's confused and has no fucking clue what's happening.
It's like, yeah.
He's going to be a good guy sometimes.
Luckily, he is right before he dies.
So it's concluded that he's a hero.
It's like, oh, that's wonderful.
He's still reeling from his non-fight with Luke.
And he's never struggled harder with his identity.
Oh my god, I did.
He seems really, he seems really fucking committed.
My whole video.
I talk about the themes of identity.
I feel like this guy is like influenced me without having seen it yet.
It's like a rival.
He's the reason I made the video, even though I made it before I saw it.
Oh my god.
Challenges him on this even more.
Here's his chance to make a final decision.
Either overthrow the Emperor.
Yeah, it was a final decision.
Yeah, because all the other ones weren't final.
When he killed Han Solo, it wasn't final.
When he assaulted this base, it wasn't final.
When he was okay with blowing up those five planets, that wasn't final.
For most people, that would be like, okay.
If he had chopped Rey into tiny little fleshy pieces and then submitted to
Emperor Palpatine, and then 10 years later, he'd said,
actually, I'm good and chopped off Palpatine's head.
This guy would be describing the seat at the end of Rise of Skywalker's
being like, it wasn't his final decision.
That was him still thinking he might be evil.
It's like, uh-huh, uh-huh.
It's a really meaningful arc, you know?
Just evil until you're not.
I guess.
If he had died at any point along the way,
then the previous thing he would have done would have been his final decision.
What then?
Or rise up against him and win the war as a Jedi.
He tries to get Rey to help him win as Kylo Ren, but so much damage has been done.
He came this close to becoming Ben Solo again in The Last Jedi.
And not understanding Rey's choice not to take his hand,
he relapses right back into Kylo Ren.
Only something's not the same.
The mask has cracks now.
Yes.
This is what I argue unironically in my parody video.
I say it doesn't go against Rian Johnson's vision
because it's supposed to represent his broken personality.
Like, it's taking Rian Johnson's vision further.
And it's just like, I was fucking joking.
Like, this isn't supposed to be a serious argument.
You just don't understand how super galaxy brain smart you are.
Oh.
Whether he likes it or not, he did try to leave it behind.
He didn't understand how integral that mask was to Kylo Ren.
Like, Darth Vader before him.
He could only stay that way without the mask for so long.
Oh, it was like the actual mask.
Is he saying the actual mask is what's keeping him as Kylo Ren?
Yeah.
Just like Darth Vader.
Like, it's specific to the mask.
Remember how Darth Vader's helmet comes off and he becomes Anakin again?
That's how that worked.
It wasn't that he was Anakin and he fucking killed the Emperor.
Intimidate or to have a meaning or anything.
It's just, it's actually the mask.
Would any, like specifically that one or could it be any other mask?
It's one of the most petty decisions to me in Rise of Skywalker
because J.J. doesn't do anything with the mask.
He just drops it randomly.
Like, it's, I don't even, we don't even see it drop.
It's just gone between scenes.
And you're like, oh, okay.
Like, he brought it back just as a fuck you to Ryan, basically.
Like, screw you.
I'm getting my helmet back.
And you're like, all right, fine.
Have it back.
And then he was like, actually, I've got, I don't care about it now.
I need, I need it to go.
Like, there it goes.
Funny thing is he even puts a stupid little bit of banter about it with Hux in there as well.
Oh, yeah.
Hux is intimidated by it, I guess.
I don't know.
Yeah, Kylo's like, oh, you're scared of me in the mask and Hux.
No, it's fine.
It's cool.
And someone else is like, yeah, I like it.
It's just so petty.
Through, it was only a matter of time before he turned back.
Han's scene is the best thing in this movie, by far.
Vlad Harrison Ford agreed to go uncredited, so this would stay a surprise.
The scene is full of emotion and payoffs that were set up as early as The Force Awakens.
As early as The Force Awakens.
Like, whoa.
I mean, like, the earliest it could have possibly been.
Yeah, because Kylo didn't exist before.
Yeah.
Yep.
It's honestly my favorite piece of quiet conversation in this trilogy.
One of my favorite scenes in all of Star Wars.
The way Kylo's words from when he killed Han are turned against him.
The way he holds his lightsaber the same way he did back on that bridge.
And for that matter, the masterful set up to this moment during his duel with Rey.
How is that masterful?
And I love it.
But he's telling himself that.
This is memory of Han, you fool.
It's not a force ghost.
That's why it's a horrible scene.
No one else has forgiven him.
He's forgiving himself.
He's just like, he's just creating a cheap straw man of the person he murdered.
And it's like, you forgive me, right?
Yeah.
Okay, good.
That was a doubt there.
Oh yeah.
Dodge the bullet there.
I'm A-okay.
The actual Han Solo's actual force ghost did something.
He's like, I don't actually forgive you.
I've been watching a charade going.
You fucking killed me when I was offering help.
You piece of shit.
I hate you.
You killed a lot of people.
Then the memory is like, no, don't listen to him.
I love you.
He's like, who the fuck is this?
He's like, I swear it like a fucking sailor.
It would be amazing.
Like Han Solo's just ripping into Kylo for everything he did wrong.
But at one point, he's like, how are you a force ghost?
He's like, the dark side has many abilities.
You're like, you're at the dark side.
Because fucking at this point, you don't need any rules.
Because here, when Rey stabs her opponent in this fight,
it's Kylo who dies.
And when his body is reborn, only Ben-
His body is reborn.
That doesn't make any sense though.
When he was de-resonated, Kylo Ren died.
There was a little part of you that was evil
and I fucking stabbed it.
I guess I just stabbed the evil out of you.
So to clarify, do we not believe that Leia was doing it?
It's like, um, I mean-
She was though.
I thought that was the whole thing.
Well, no, that's what's been said about it.
But if you look at the scene for what it is,
Leia's been dead for a while by the time he sees Han.
Yeah, she dead.
So like, do I feel like if we go in strictly from what we see in the film,
it's like, no, I'm assuming that's just entirely Kylo seeing him.
It's got nothing to do with Leia.
Unless Leia is, as a force ghost, projecting Han there,
like puppeteering him, and she's just off into the corner of the camera,
standing on a platform, like going, ooh.
I just feel like, oh my god.
...and incredibly emotional.
This moment sees both of the proxies in episode eight
where Rey and Kylo saw each other turning come true,
and Leia's sacrifice ensures that Rey-
How does Rey turn?
Leia's sacrifice?
Well, wait, how does Rey turn?
She cheap shots him, I guess?
By attacking Kylo, she's turning to the dark side.
Oh.
Kylo's gonna kill her.
Well-
They're sword fighting.
Well-
What?
How is she-
It's a dark side.
But Kylo's evil.
Yeah, but she should have sensed that he was giving up,
and she should have just been like, oh, it's cool.
She's giving into the dark side, Rags.
That's what that means.
Oh, okay.
That's what it means.
...back to the light and heal the body
that Kylo can no longer haunt.
Again, to revisit-
Healing the body that Kylo can no longer haunt.
What?
This is some weird shit, dude.
Because remember, like Ben and Kylo,
this is the same person.
You just call this person Kylo when he's being evil,
and Ben when he's being not as evil,
or neutral, if anything.
Like, I almost feel like these people
are tricking themselves into thinking
it's actually two different people
who aren't responsible for anything the other person does.
Someone in chat said you're wrong more
than she doesn't disappear until after that scene.
She's dead.
She's dead, though.
She's under the sheet.
She's dead.
She dies.
Don't you think she sleeps like that?
She dies.
Whatever she rests.
Kylo and Rey-
She just turns into Dracula,
lays her right on a table,
and has someone cover her with a sheet.
Kylo and Rey react to her death,
not her sleeping.
She took a nap.
They're like, she's napping.
Mama's taking a nap.
To be quiet.
We don't want to wake her up here.
She's dead.
Oh yeah, the words have totaled.
She's fucking dead.
She's fucking dead.
At that, another huge plot point in The Last Jedi
is realized in this film.
Whoa.
So many people are still acting like
at retcons the one that came before it.
Oh hey, just footage it, bro.
Did you count Darth Vader telling Luke
he's his father as a retcon?
Sometimes the story is just partially untold,
and the answer you were going to get
takes a little bit longer than you thought it would.
I feel so sorry for this guy.
Lawrence, fuck your retarded.
He's arguing against TLJ fans.
Like, can you imagine that conversation
where they're just like, no, it's ruined.
He's like, no, it's not.
And we're just sitting there like,
it's all terrible, guys.
I would love to watch one of these debates
where each side is trying to know
which one is actually better.
Rey's parents were nobody.
From a certain point of view.
No, they're not.
They are literally, one of them is the kid of Palpatine.
That is specifically not a nobody.
No, that's a direct contradiction.
You can't get away with that.
Because they do that in the film.
Kylo is like, I didn't lie to you.
Your parents are nobody.
It's like, no, that's not how that works.
Sorry, if your definition of a somebody
is somebody with the surname Skywalker,
Kenobi, Palpatine, Windu, whatever,
then her parent being a Palpatine is a someone.
Okay?
What do you think nobody means in this universe?
Anybody who doesn't like being a Palpatine,
like being a person in the bloodline that they're in?
And that's a whole story right there.
Like how did that happen?
Palpatine had a kid and that kid decided
that they didn't want to be a Palpatine?
Like that's probably a more interesting story.
Yeah, that whole piece of backstory was so clunky.
You know, that they had to try and work in this idea
that her parents who, you know,
one of them was like the son or daughter of Palpatine
just suddenly decided, oh yeah, we don't want to be part of this.
We're going to go and live in the middle of nowhere
and we're going to dump our daughter with these people
and then leave like it's.
He's just got a face.
We feel like we can trust him just based on his face.
I certainly leave our daughter with him
and he'll take really good care of her.
As B. Coswell just said,
her parent was the heir to the freaking empire.
It's like, how do you get to be more of a somebody at that point?
Um.
Um.
Look, maybe Kylo just maybe Kylo just has really high standards.
If you're not Palpatine, you're nobody.
Yeah, you know Palpatine, you just don't matter.
It's all about him.
And don't you think Leia's acceptance of Rey
so quickly in the Force Awakens has given a little more context now?
Leia of all people, the daughter of Darth Vader.
Fuck off.
Even JJ Abrams said this was a mistake.
Who she is is a Palpatine.
I guess so, which.
Don't be afraid of that.
What's weird because the whole thing is supposed to say that
she has a destiny and bloodlines are like a big deal.
She fought her destiny Rags, even though that doesn't make any sense.
Leia knows what kind of burden Rey will need to overcome in the future.
She knows the path ahead for this girl
and she knows the one thing that could help prepare her for that.
Found family.
This is odd editing.
Yeah.
Poe and Rey were the first two people to ever look at Finn
like he was a real human being.
They broke new ground in each other's lives,
went to Exegol and back again,
which is basically hell if you think about it.
And Finn is like a branch between them.
No, hell is probably full of cool people.
He says that Finn is a branch between them
because the fucking writers didn't put them together yet.
It's like Finn kind of connects them.
Is that how it works?
Oh, that's how a trio works now.
Two of them know each other and the other person knows those two.
Well, no, the two of them don't know each other,
but the third person knows both of them.
And so they're kind of a trio if you think about it.
Last Jedi, he's easily the most mature, but they're real.
They're family.
Finn's easily the most mature.
How do you conclude this?
But they're not like a family.
Like Poe and Rey don't like each other the entirety of the film.
I mean, at this point in the story, they don't even know each other.
Yeah, in The Last Jedi.
Like, they don't know.
She doesn't know that there's a person called Poe.
Like, she's just like, oh, hey, at the end of the film.
Like Luke and Leia are to Rey by the end.
Like the whole resistance is to them.
Rey got sold.
Finn was taken from his parents so young he couldn't remember them.
We don't ever see Poe's blood family,
but it's worth noting that even after he left to fight in the war,
his other found family was still willing to come back
and stick their necks out to help them.
Yeah, and that's retarded.
Doesn't that fight your whole point, then?
He left his found family to find another found family.
He was like, what the hell?
But his first found family never stopped loving him,
even though putting a gun to his head and literally saying,
I want to see your brains in the snow.
There's love, guys.
That's a deep love right there.
Oh, you know how the families are, you know.
They'd be like that.
Is he trying to say that's the theme of the trilogy, found family?
Well, it's all, it's about family.
That's what I was going to say,
is you're going to try and connect it back to the O.T.
and be like, it's all perfect poetry.
It works. All of it works. Woo-hoo.
Incredible cost to themselves.
Some things were stronger than blood.
It doesn't matter who Rey's parents were.
It didn't before, and it doesn't now.
She has a family.
She has a legacy.
And it has nothing to do with Dark City.
Dark City is nothing.
I understand the words he's saying on an individual basis,
but the way he's putting them all together,
I'm like, I don't understand how you're getting to this,
this point of view.
It's just a really generous point of view.
That's pretty much it.
And very broad.
Stay away from those details.
It doesn't matter who Rey's parents were.
It didn't before, and it doesn't now.
It does.
That's why she's even involved with a lot of the stuff.
Apparently, that's sort of like the central core thing
about this whole, I think Palpatine wants her so bad.
Why do you think Snoke wanted her
because of what Palpatine needed so bad?
Wait, why did Snoke say that he needed,
nevermind, because it's all fucking stupid
and it doesn't make any sense at all.
I was going to say, the film's,
I would agree with him that that is the point.
Unfortunately, that point is made three times over.
The first film is like,
you know what?
Your parents, don't worry about them.
They ain't coming back.
Go to Luke.
That's what Maz Kanata says.
Second film is like,
your parents, you know how you already knew
that they're not coming back?
Well, they're dead.
Okay.
That's not dissimilar from never seeing them again.
So, all right.
And then the third film is like,
you know what?
They're not dead.
Well, they are dead, but they are Palpatine's.
You're like, oh my God, that changes everything.
And it's like, no, not really,
because that doesn't define you.
And you're like, oh.
So, the whole trilogy is just fighting with the notion
of what it means to have parents
that either are never going to come and find you,
are dead, or are evil people, but not really,
and are also dead.
And what does that mean for you as a person?
And it's constantly wrestling with all of that.
And in the meantime, we're like,
can you develop these characters, please?
It's like, no.
Well, yeah, this concept that Finn and Poe
are like her family now,
and they give her the meaning and purpose
that she needs.
Like, isn't the point of family that they support you
and help you out and stuff?
They don't ever help her out.
She has to constantly save them.
Yeah, and she always fucking ditches them twice.
She ditches them twice at every time.
Remember, she just fucks off randomly too.
She's like, I will go get the McMuffin.
They're just like, oh, okay.
And then she leaves and goes to fuck too.
Yeah, like they literally serve no purpose
from her point of view.
They don't do anything to help her.
Well, like I highlighted it in my video,
but Poe and Finn's journey up to the point
where they leave Death Star Planet and go back to base.
All of the film was pointless for them.
They didn't get a McMuffin.
They just come back as failures.
And they're like, damn it.
But then Dio and Rey's transmission
saves the day for them.
Like, can you imagine that?
How much you'd be pissed at Rey at that point?
Like, you just fucked off.
What the hell?
It's staggering.
They never question her about that.
She's just like, no, it's all good.
I killed Palpatine, I guess.
I'm like, okay.
Yeah, it's like, well done.
You just fixed everything.
She has a legacy,
and it has nothing to do with Darth Sidious.
The Skywalker line ends with Ben.
That's true.
It just restarts with Rey.
Because she calls herself a Skywalker.
So that makes her one.
Yep.
That's literally all it is.
Yeah, he just took his name.
That fucking...
People love that.
Yeah, that went down really well.
I'm Skywalker.
Fuck all the other ones you liked.
I think it was Jay that put out a poll on Twitter
being like, what would have been the worst answer?
And it was Rey Solo, Rey Skywalker, Rey Palpatine, or Rey.
And I think he put Binks.
And everyone answered Skywalker.
Like, they chose the worst one.
It's so frustrating that she chose Skywalker.
It's like, screw you.
Fuck you, lady.
You don't get to have that name.
They're just like, well, I did.
Well, everyone else is dead,
so I can just take what I want.
I did say before that a big theme in this trilogy was redemption.
Nature versus nurture and the like.
But there's another theme in these movies
that I think is just as important.
Family.
I don't know about you,
but there are human beings out there
who I trust on a personal level
much more than I trust most of the people I'm related to.
With that in mind, I can seriously get behind the idea
that family is about more than where your powers come from
or who your parents are.
Where your powers come from.
Why would that?
I guess that's the Palpatine thing.
You know, I see.
Because what he needs to do when doing analysis,
you use words that can both apply to real life and the fiction.
He said, where your powers come from,
as if for a second there that applies to real life.
Like, your ability...
I guess you could...
We don't really have powers,
but it's like, where do my powers come from?
It's like, well, my mom and dad.
They have powers too.
Like, reading comprehension.
That was boosted by the clan that I'm a part of.
The bloodline.
Rey raised Rey.
That's why she sees herself in the cave in The Last Jedi.
Because even if Palpatines are granddaddy, who cares?
What has he ever done for her?
I'm sorry, so...
Why should she do anything for him?
They're blood, but they're not family.
Okay, so why does she see herself then?
Because she brought herself up, is what he said.
He just said, she raised her,
which blew my mind for a second there.
Like, oh my god, Rey raised Rey.
So, you're supposed to see your family in the butthole pit?
Well, yeah, she said, show me my parents, right?
And he showed her her.
Because she raised her.
Because I'm just picturing...
Why didn't it show her pictures of her parents?
Well, it showed two figures.
Because they raised her.
Because they did raise her.
She raised her to the age of like four.
Technically, she would have shown Unkar Pla.
Yeah.
I want to see like that in fucking really high quality Unkar Pla disappears.
Rey, I am your father.
One half person.
I taught you how to be a hero, Rey.
I'll say that Palpatine, you're going to tell them how good I was to you.
You know this shot where it pads to show her and Kylo raising their lightsaber against Palpatine.
You just have the third guy Unkar Pla there with a lightsaber.
It's time to take you down, Palpatine.
God damn it, this fucking trilogy, man.
Rey raised herself, whatever.
You didn't do that.
Yeah, family means I'm not actually going to come there and fuck you,
even though that's well within my ability.
Instead, I'm just going to pretend to be there.
So that I don't have.
And then I don't die of exhaustion.
I'm not going to actually go there.
I could go on and I don't think this movie is flawless or anything.
Rose, for example.
I mean, I'm sure no Star Wars before this one
had two characters kids in a fashion that didn't pan out
and just made some scenes a little awkward later.
Oh, huh.
Well, I'm sure no story.
Are you comparing those scenes?
Fuck you.
So I don't know if he's seen the original trilogy or not,
but Leia kisses Luke in that scene to make Han jealous and push him off.
Here is the theory that those two can end up together because Han's so sure of it.
That doesn't pan out very well because she is actually interested in Han.
That's probably what motivated a kiss Luke in the first place, right?
Lots of interesting elements there.
The awkwardness, I suppose, is brought in by the fact that they're related.
But, you know, it's not quite the same as for that.
Yeah.
Not only did they not know, but like it's not like it's just kiss.
It's very quick.
It's not.
Yeah.
You know, it's not the end of the world.
It's fine.
There's lots to inform that Rose kissing fit is just you.
You feel Finn's emotions in that scene.
You're like, what the fuck was that?
Yeah.
It's like you foul creature.
Keep the dyed lips away from me.
Plus, look at what happens between.
Where does the relationship of Leia and Han go all over the place?
Where does the relationship of Finn and Rose go?
It just fucking dies.
Yeah, let's roll them back.
Did you try to imply the the hearted layer?
What is the saber tips of where it goes thing to save the resistance?
That is what family is.
I could go on and I don't think this movie is flawless or anything.
Rose, for example.
I mean, I'm sure no Star Wars before this one had two characters kiss in a
fashion that didn't pan out and just made some scenes a little awkward later.
Oh.
Oh, he's saying that their relationship didn't pan out.
We find out that brother and sister, dude.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They love each other very much and they spend a lot of time together,
apparently, and they train as Jedi's like their relationship does go somewhere.
Finn and Rose's is super.
Rose's just dies.
I mean, it just doesn't even like exist.
I think Finn would have had a problem with her for preventing him from
saving the entire resistance.
You know, that's that's my theory.
He probably would have been annoyed just to a little degree.
He would have been like, hey, that was a dick move.
Just saying.
And then she kisses him.
And he's like, oh my God, mixed signals.
I'm just so fucking confused.
Yeah.
I don't think I would have dragged her unconscious body back to base.
If I was him, I was like, especially not after she just sexually assaulted me.
Yeah.
Hashtag me too.
You got me too.
Yeah, exactly.
Huh.
Well, I'm sure no Star Wars ever had a successful first act so full of nonstop
action as rise of Skywalker's.
Oh, but wait, full fat videos made a whole s.
Wait, what?
What?
I'm sorry.
This I need to let's roll that back and rise.
The Skywalker had an action packed first.
What are wars ever had a successful first act so full of nonstop action
as rise of Skywalker's.
Oh, but wait full fat videos made a whole essay about one of those.
That's funny.
I will watch the opening action of episode three a million times
before I fucking touch TLJ's opening scene again.
I don't even know what he's saying.
I don't know.
How does this relate to what he just said about something panning out?
Like, I'm going to go for one more time.
I'm really not sure what he's saying.
Pan out and just made some scenes a little awkward later.
Oh, huh.
Well, I'm sure no Star Wars ever had a successful first act so full of nonstop
action as rise of Skywalker's.
Oh, but wait full fat videos made a whole essay about.
So he said, is he trying to say that a criticism of rise of Skywalker is
that it's opening is to action packed and yet the episode threes is.
So you can't say that is that his point.
Maybe there's something else after this.
Because if that is his point, it's retarded one of those.
That's funny.
Well, okay.
But there were no moments to breathe.
Except here, here, here, here, and here.
You, you get that even if.
What?
Okay, wait, let's look at those examples.
I think he's actually just fucked up.
I walkers.
Oh, but wait full fat.
Also.
Yeah, sorry.
We should finish this point.
I have no idea what his argument is here about this opening battle thing.
I'm confused.
No, it's something about rise of Skywalker's first opening act is really action packed.
But so is episode threes and something guy praise that.
So he should be praising this one.
Like I have not seen full fat guys video on that, but I would just say as an
automatic logical defense, it's like just because this action doesn't mean he's a hypocrite.
Yeah, like not all action is equal.
Some action is good because it has a story and it's well paced and you
can follow what's going on.
And some action is just the special effects team spraying diarrhea all over the screen
because they don't.
Anyway, next point videos made a whole essay about one of those.
That's funny.
Well, okay.
But there were no moments to breathe except here.
So that was when they were playing chess.
That's like moments to breathe.
That's just an interesting.
It's a couple of jokes like this.
That's about it.
If we're talking, I'm going to give the best benefit of the doubt to the people who probably
made the criticism.
The idea that you have moments for characters to just just talk and about everything because
I feel the same way about rise of Skywalker.
There's barely any scenes where like meaningful things take place between characters.
Off the top of my head, you've got been talking to Jana at one point about being
ex stormtroopers.
That's close to one.
Been talking to Ray about how she's doing weird things.
And she's like, I'm a palpitism.
I'm going to kill him.
And he's like, man, that doesn't sound like you.
Again, close, but not really anything.
When Poe talks to spice, run a lady about how she says the first order wins by making
you feel alone, which is a really stupid line because it's not about that at all.
It's about all of their lasers.
Um, then there's the part where they talk as a three at the beginning of the movie.
And for some reason to set up that Poe and Ray hate each other, but then do nothing with it.
This is what I mean.
Like these moments, if you call quiet moments when characters speak to each other,
I'd be like, I guess so.
It's just that compare that.
And this is the thing.
Even to the last Jedi, the last Jedi destroys this movie in that regard.
You have lots of longer scenes talking about what I would consider to be very important topics.
I just don't think they're handled well.
So the idea that you're showing screenshots of times where there is explosions on screen,
I'd be like, congratulations.
That's clearly not the point that someone's made.
Certainly not the point I would make.
Plus, they still do a lot of stuff.
A lot of planet trotting is going on.
A lot of things are going on.
Movies just all over the place are here, here, here, here, and here.
That's really bad that you could only highlight like six.
Yeah, that is actually pretty bad, especially because these scenes are just making us go.
What?
And a lot of these scenes are just traveling from area to area anyway.
Like this is when they're searching for Darth Uchi's knife.
I don't know what is meaningfully discussed in this scene between Poe and Ray.
This is the necklace from that ugly child.
Yeah, this is where she gets the necklace.
So it's not even a character moment.
It's just setting up a plot event.
Yeah, here's a random doohickey that you will need so that the plot can happen later.
That's all this scene.
You're just pointing us to a scene that's shitty.
It's just not shitty for the reason that you think it is.
It wasn't even needed, though.
I'm not trying to say you're wrong if these things bother you,
but hold back on calling this thing worse than Attack of the Clones, okay?
This is.
Well, you can't make those two statements.
You can't be wrong for your opinion, but don't say this thing.
Because our team, we would happily be like, you're coming up with bad references or whatever,
but if you're going to let everyone have their own opinions on everything,
you call it that.
It'd be like, hey, don't say it's worse than Attack of the Clones.
It is worse than Attack of the Clones.
It is.
Well, I guess.
So dude, calm down.
Seriously, breathe for a second.
It's not as bad as episodes one and two, and if you think it is,
then you should probably watch some more movies.
What?
That doesn't even make sense.
Why would watching more movies?
That's not an argument.
One and two are bad on almost every level and pretty much inwatchable.
I'm not saying they're good either, but that bad.
I'm sorry, Rise of Skywalker is like League's worst than any prequel.
Yeah.
It isn't.
Okay.
This movie has problems, but they're nothing Star Wars.
Oh, wow.
It is kind of.
Should probably watch.
You got quote to it.
Damn.
He came back at him.
Um, yeah, you should probably watch some more movies.
It's not like going to help you decide whether or not Rise of Skywalker is better or worse
than episodes one and two.
Surely that would just distract you.
Like the ones you need to see for that decision would be those ones.
Yeah.
Rewatch those, not watch more.
Watch other films.
It's just like, okay.
Hasn't had before.
Their problems integral to how Star Wars functions.
And like a lot of people were saying about The Last Jedi, just because the movie isn't
flawless doesn't mean it's not the same fare you loved before, given a new direction and
some different talent.
Maybe wait more than a day after it comes out to post about how garbage the movie is.
No, you can decide full fat videos.
I don't know.
Apparently it's the person this guy does not like right now.
Oh, okay.
This guy seems to be something as a hate.
So full fat.
I love you guys since diaper days, uh, when you barely had two viewers to put together
to make a dime or a Oh, shit.
Hang on.
Skipped some different talent.
Maybe wait more than a day after it comes out to post about how garbage the movie is.
I'm sorely disappointed in you for one chasing the algorithm with hatred.
Oh my God.
It's embarrassing.
Holy algorithm.
So when you give a review of a movie that came out recently, that means you're chasing
the algorithm.
It has nothing to do with your passions at all.
Yeah.
Can't be interested in it.
If you're a film reviewer, can't do that.
I mean, I wait a month, you know, wait about two months.
Ideally, that's what you should do.
Movie comes out.
Wait a good two months.
Don't want to be accused of chasing the algorithm.
Then you can get your review up two months after everyone else does.
Yeah, because this is the thing I, uh, you've forgotten.
I like, I like the idea of giving it some time before you share what you think and feel
and stuff, but I don't think that you should not.
Like so, for example, I watch a movie.
If someone asked me what I thought immediately after seeing it, I think it'd be really interesting
to compare those feelings to a week later and a month later, et cetera.
Like we've talked about it before, but, um, TLJ, after completing it for the first time ever,
I was confused.
I wasn't angry yet.
I was like, hmm.
I don't know what I think about a lot of these things, but you know, just give it a couple
of hours, days, whatever it, um, it turned to a fiery fuel of hatred, but, uh, to be
like you can't shit because like, you know, first impressions for people doing that sort
of vlogging thing on YouTube.
It's fine.
It's just funny when they fucking remember things wrong.
What's, what's the classic one ranks?
Remember from back in the day when, uh, a certain, certain character said that, uh,
I remember, I remember.
Um, so yeah, this person is mad at this person for reviewing a film and not even giving it
a day to sink in and consider your feelings.
Would you be saying this if they were positive?
I wonder, no, that's how it works.
You clarify, chase the algo all you want.
It's a business.
I get that got to do you, but to intentionally slag the movie in both the title and thumbnail
in an effort to get engagement from sour fanboys who can't stop sucking Lucas's dick.
Okay.
When the guy was garbage without his team.
Oh my God.
The bitterness betrays what I felt was the moral center of this channel,
which used to be dedicated to loving cinema and all of its forms.
You can criticize things and still like them.
Finding the joy is in a lot of people criticize things is because they like them.
Especially around star wars.
Now, a lot of the criticism is happening because people love it.
Bryce, this is embarrassing.
Finding the joy and beauty and seeds that not everyone paid great attention to on first viewing.
My sincere hope is that you have a feeling in the pit of your stomach that posting this was a mistake
and that you're being hyperbolic.
It's a dark fucking day when full fat videos is posting about how bad a movie is the day
after it comes out.
You are poisoning the well.
It's a dark fucking day when videos is posting about how bad a movie is the day after.
What if he saw it and it was bad?
What if he saw it and thought it was good and reviewed it positively?
If they don't acknowledge bad, like, do you think all movies are good?
If the movie's good, then make your then make your day after vlog video because that's fine.
But if it's bad, you need to seriously stop what you're fucking doing and reevaluate your attitude, buster.
Right. He's he's he's a Disney.
Yeah, I think I think this guy is a Disney.
You have to spell the Disney.
They're in the comment section.
Oh, no, not the Disney.
And the cannon.
If they don't acknowledge that how toxic their attitude in this video is at some point,
I may answer.
I'm starting to wonder if this video is they're actually like harshly criticizing it with like
loads of swear words excessively and saying how much the cast and crew need to die or something.
It's like, what made them post these comments?
Jeez, I don't need that in my life.
They don't like a Star Wars movie and they told us that they didn't like it.
Look at this.
They earned so much goodwill from me by talking about the good stuff in the prequels and rebels.
But this dashed all of that.
Oh, wow.
Talk about, you know, being hyperbolic.
You did one thing that I did.
But catalog of your life is valid.
God, man, I would suck to get this kind of comments like this is disappointing.
We assume some of the people upset with you for telling them how much the film sucks on.
Uh, yeah, he definitely he's definitely the one that here.
Okay, so he responds to this comment.
It's got nothing to do with chasing the algorithm.
That really irritates me, actually.
Why don't I make the decision for you and you can unsub immediately?
I don't want someone like you accusing me of that when all I've done is give you my opinion
that you don't like.
It's actually so boneheaded to say that the goodwill is dashed because I disliked a movie.
Next time I'll pretend to like something I don't just for you both.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Do you want to read this one, right?
It isn't the fact that you dislike the movie.
It's the clickbait intentional or not.
Clear hyperbole in complete lack of willingness to acknowledge the good in this film.
You are doing to this movie what people did to the last.
Come on.
The last Jedi.
I know you lampshaded that in your video, but that doesn't make any less frustrating.
Understand that I'm not trying to tell you you have to like the movie or whatever.
Okay, so exaggerated.
It hurts.
And instead of letting it sink in and digest a little,
you post this up like a day after it comes out.
I don't care if you saw it twice or not.
I'm allowed to think you're jumping the gun on.
Yeah, you're allowed to think it doesn't mean you're allowed to make opinions about how bad
your shit is, but you can't make opinions on how bad Disney shit is.
Okay.
Even if you see it twice, I see your thumbnail once.
Fucking did I watch it twice, though?
So it's okay to watch it twice and like it, but it's not okay to watch it twice and not like it.
All right.
But even then, I'm not insulting you here.
You don't like the film.
That's whatever.
I'm not the one going and calling JJ Jar Jar Abrams and insinuating all sorts of nasty shit about JJ
because of my feelings toward the film.
Maybe you walk back on some of this later in the video.
I don't know.
He didn't be finished.
He didn't even finish the video.
Maybe you should have balanced this better.
Oh, my gosh.
I'm not going to finish your video, but you should have balanced this video better.
Okay, if you wanted people who don't like to listen to other people shitting on things
instead of saying anything remotely constructive to stick around for an hour and 41 minutes,
you don't need to even say anything nice about the movie at all.
Just maybe this would have been better or I don't know something again, constructive.
Why are you putting this in your video?
This makes you look like it unhinged the lunatic.
I was going to say, why would you fucking fanboy consumer disnoid?
Oh, shit.
I just realized this is the guy, isn't it?
Yeah.
This is the guy who made this video.
Oh, that's so awkward.
He thinks this is a good comment.
He thinks this is him totally.
BTFOing full fat videos.
This is a this is a big old W in his mind.
Damn.
Oh, it makes you look so bad.
You have a complete lack of willingness to acknowledge the good in the film.
I'm not saying you have to say anything good about the film.
Would this like I'm picturing I guess the reverse of this would be if I praised like
episode 10, people would be saying this in the comments or something.
Because I'm guessing full fat never criticized the Star Wars movie up till now or something.
I don't know how else to explain this comment.
It's just like it's otherworldly to me that they're like, what is what is this?
I can't understand this attitude that people have this idea.
That's like something that I don't like.
Now I hate everything you've done is now invalid.
I'm not even going to give you a chance to defend yourself.
I'm not even going to pay attention to the thing you actually said.
My interpretation of this thing now means that you are basically cancer.
It's just bizarre.
That's the Twitter mindset of people as well is like a celebrity,
their favorite celebrity said something mildly controversial.
And then it's like, Oh, my God, they're dead to me now.
This is why don't go on Twitter.
Twitter is just a lot of what I listened to in this video was just you asking rhetorical
questions about the film and then insulting it.
Rinse, repeat that does not make me want to listen.
It's like, OK, don't.
Yeah, especially when some of those questions have easy answers and you just couldn't be
fucked to wait until after the theatrical run is over.
So your stomach ache could subside.
Oh, you're sorry.
You've let it he's let it he's let it slip there.
Because if you're suggesting that there are some questions that can be answered,
then there must be some that can't be answered.
Also, there must be questions that can be answered wrong and right.
Right.
This just opens up all of the the ideas that it's just a lack of information.
So leave him the fuck alone.
It's his first like impression.
Maybe he got some stuff wrong.
Like, why are you treating this like you have to literally just we've all seen it happen.
Everyone gets stuff wrong every once in a while.
And if this is true, let's say he says it's really dumb that Mace Windu was Palpatine all along.
We'd all be like, what?
It would make me unsubscribe.
It's a really disnoid thing for him to be like, oh, if you don't like the Star Wars movie,
well, then at least wait until it's out of theaters and you can't influence people to
not go see it in theaters anymore.
That's a really weird request.
Wait until its theatrical run is over.
It's like, no, that could be a month plus depending.
Star Wars was like didn't Black Panther and Joker and stuff.
They stayed in the cinema fucking ages.
Yeah, man.
And it's like, well, I can't wait.
Go ahead.
Is Disney like the kind of company that you need to protect as well?
It is noise drinker.
It's like, oh, no, they might lose a few bucks because I told people not to watch this movie.
Well, you have to remember from his perspective, this is a great movie
and the people are like preventing others from enjoying it.
It's just crazy because I'm like, do you really think that?
Oh, my goodness.
They don't know how to go.
I can't wait to go look at a movie after it's out of theaters.
I mean, if this guy was here, that's the first question I'd ask him.
I'd be like, why don't they know how to go up?
He'd be like, no navigation tower.
I'd be like, that does not address my question even slightly.
That's weird because I myself do not have a navigation and yet somehow.
Anyway, he says finishes up.
I know. I know you don't care if I'm subscribed or not.
It's not like I'm a patron or anything.
And even if I was as a fellow creator, I know what it's like when someone accepts you
and you don't care anymore about their creative support.
Oh, frankly, that's that framing.
That's terrible.
So like this, this reminds me of when someone says
Mueller and Rags killed film criticism.
They're idiots.
No one should respect them.
And I'm like, wow, that's kind.
And then someone goes, you really can't take criticism, can you?
You just sit there like, I'm sorry, that was criticism.
I yeah, well, maybe you can't take criticism.
So there.
Oh, well, that's the thing.
Like, it's just you don't get to do that.
You don't get to be a complete bitch.
Then someone points it out.
Then you go, I was supporting you.
No, you're not.
Frankly, I never expected you to read it.
I wasn't trying to hold my subscription ransom or whatever.
I was just trying to illustrate that.
I don't like how you express this.
What you expressed as whatever.
By the way, he constantly refers to it as whatever, which means it bugs him.
It bugs him.
I thought it was fine.
I thought it wasn't the how it was the what he said.
Like you've gotten questions.
You've been asking questions that have answers if you paid attention and waited a bit longer.
Well, it's he's saying if you don't like it, it's whatever.
When people say that, it's not.
No, it's not whatever.
It's not whatever.
It means it's not acceptable.
When people say, well, we say if you don't like it, that's OK.
Or that's fine.
It means it's OK.
It's fine.
When people say if you don't like it, it's whatever.
That's like a that's like a bitchy girlfriend thing to say.
Right.
The next line.
Oh, no.
Let's see.
I love the last Jedi.
And I've had to deal with people shitting all over that for two years now.
Oh, no, you mad, bro.
Why do you think this shit not it?
I can't do this for another two years.
Oh, how come I like things that are terrible?
One lukewarm take about Rise of Skywalker isn't going to make me lose my head.
I just wish that you didn't go and poison the well of discourse
the same way that made me hate this fandom two years ago.
Oh, he doesn't know poisoning the well means restarted.
Honey, you need to chill like this.
You know, you'll be fine.
Full fat videos is probably a very popular channel,
but he's not going to control the discourse on the rise of Skywalker alone.
OK, you'll be fine.
People will like the movie if they like the movie.
Yeah, Disney will make their billion dollars.
You'll be fine.
You'll survive.
You can like I'm sure that they will send you their heartfelt appreciation
in an email or a letter or a Disney representative will come to your house.
Knock on the door.
Thank you so much.
I got you the Blu-ray set of this movie that's still in theaters.
Thank you for your service.
You're doing a great job.
So, OK, I'm sure I'm sure Disney will send you a bouquet of rose tikos on Valentine's Day.
Why did he why did he put this in his video, though?
This makes you look terrible.
Don't think that you look good here.
You don't.
You look very bad.
I don't use terms like unhinged and deranged lightly because it implies mental instability,
but you actually look deranged like making these.
The fact that he's just said, like, I'm not losing my head over this.
It's like, you know, OK, I'm not losing my head.
I'm not losing my head.
You have to mention it just otherwise.
And there's just little things.
I'm not holding the option.
Ransom.
Why do you announce if you're subscribing or unsubscribing?
Yeah, it almost seems like that is ransoming it.
That's like I'm unsubscribing because you said the wrong thing.
It's basically like, well, I'll say leverage if you say the right.
Yeah, it's leveraging things.
It's such a dumb ass argument people make.
But they try it by one subscription.
Well, yeah, I would I would probably feel the same as for five videos if I've got someone
being like, you like something I did like about subscribing or vice versa.
I just be like, OK, you know, I don't know what to do with this.
All right.
You do.
The thing is, every time I've got someone like that, I used to say, OK,
you've already been replaced and then they'd be like, oh, but but but but but
fuck you, you only care about numbers.
I'm just like, well, you're the one that brought it up.
And second of all, you're not a subscriber of mine now.
Someone why should I care more about you than them?
If you want me to take every individual seriously, I've got more investment in them
because they're now subscribed than you.
So you've you've shot yourself in the foot here.
Not to mention the part where he says you don't care anymore about their creative support.
I'm like, that is your.
That's how you frame what you've done here.
OK, on Twitter aren't just mad at your hot take
and perhaps just wanted a chance to see.
Oh, so it goes on, I guess.
Oh, God, I literally had an aside where we spoke about moments we like.
I repeatedly said I wanted to like it.
Guess what?
It's garbage.
That's what I think.
You can't tell me what my intentions are.
I'm telling you what they are.
People think they can talk to creators like dirt for having opinions.
If you don't like the content, don't watch it.
I've been as accommodating as I can be.
I said I didn't mind if you like it.
What more do you want, man?
Oh, I'm sure this is going to be very.
I like how he had to screenshot the fact that he disliked that comment.
Get that in there.
You want to do you want to take him ranks the crazy.
Sure.
Let's go.
Could only be better if he liked his own.
I'm not talking to you like dirt and you don't need to preach to me
about that because I know I have 16 case.
I mean, that's that's not like, you know, again, like it's great success to have any
amount of subscribers, but like full fat videos.
Let me check quickly.
I'm pretty sure he has a lot more than 16 K full fat videos.
And there's a huge difference between 16 K and he's got 212 K.
Yeah.
It's just a different.
Different.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you're not going to make him swear by threatening to withhold one subscription.
Yeah, it's like subscriber counts on.
People really need to stop using them like they are,
especially now that we know that YouTube dicks those numbers around behind the scenes.
It does.
And I'm just going to tell this guy right now, you with your 16 K subs,
you have no fucking clue what it's like to have 330,
whatever thousand subs and have people hate you.
You have no idea.
Yeah.
The hatred is galaxy.
It evolves.
I can't imagine what I has to go through.
Like for every, let's just say there's a crazy person,
pair 100 people in the world that says insane shit.
The more subs you have, the more likely you're going to have those in your fan base
or at least your viewer base, right?
Not fans.
And you'll get shit like that one where we showed on eFap where they said it would be
nice if I was killed slash disappeared.
It's just like, whoa.
Okay.
Like you'll, you'll, you'll eventually have several of those.
And so if you, if you quote unquote slip up or do anything they don't like,
they'll start to come out real quick with lots of stuff as opposed to, you know,
16 K where you probably will have some crazies in there.
Sure.
But it's probably going to be a lot less likely to have the super crazies.
And again, this, this is like 10 fold for, you know,
one million subscriber.
And then like PewDiePie is a hundred million.
Has he got a hundred million?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
PewDiePie.
Imagine what he gets.
But fucking all of the crazy people.
Like you get to that sort of size and it's like you just have people
fabricating shit to hate you for.
Yeah.
They'll work really hard to hate you.
Yeah.
Like there are, there are people who will go out of their way to concoct grand conspiracy
theories about you to justify hate you.
Like you're, you're in the news.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I think guys like PewDiePie, the actual news media have gone after him
multiple times, haven't they?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like they will outright just publicize that the guy is a Nazi.
Yeah.
And I think that's where it gets kind of scary because like one dickhead on Twitter
is not going to make much difference.
But like, yeah.
But the news outlets publishing.
Yeah.
Like smear against you.
That has got to be difficult to take.
Anyway.
Yeah.
On that note.
Anyway, let's see.
Where were we?
Been on the site for seven years as a creator.
I know people aren't kind to creators.
Notice how I still haven't insulted you even once in this time.
Hang on.
Maybe no direct like you're a, you're an asshole sort of stuff,
but there's definitely been character criticisms in here
that could totally be interpreted as insults.
Like the accusing of poisoning the well, which was is an interesting use of that.
Yeah.
You can't say you're poisoning the well and that you feel it and be like,
I'm not insulting you, bro.
I'm just saying that you bad things with bad intentions.
Exactly.
That's kind of what I'm getting at.
It's like, how is that?
You're accusing of doing something that is much worse than saying, hey, you're fat.
Okay.
That's not an insult so much as a description.
Exactly.
So the, the insult that we've talked about this before, but like, say for example,
someone says, you know, bowler regularly lies about X, Y, and Z versus someone saying molds
an idiot.
Which one do you think I'm going to be more upset at?
The lies.
Yes.
And so just to be like, I haven't even thrown an insult.
It's like, I don't fucking care.
Like insults don't really matter, but yeah, whatever.
Let's see.
That doesn't mean I can't be upset with the way you have expressed this.
Once again, your opinion isn't the reason.
It's just you being so aggressive, hyper reactive and mean about it.
I also never said a word about your intentions.
But this is what this kind of thoughtless exaggeration does.
I mean, fuck from what you described.
This movie sounds like it's a recording on some dude's smartphone of cosplayers
sminging around brooms.
That's not an unfair description of the sequel trilogy, to be fair.
That would have been more entertaining.
But I'm not anymore.
But now I am again.
Why did you put this in your video?
Why?
This means you look terrible.
What more plus it's slowing us down.
What more do you want, man?
I want you to understand that me being upset here has nothing to do with your takes.
Did he say that he wasn't upset?
He said he was upset with the how, not the what.
Okay.
It's his behavior.
I've been a fan of yours for over a year now.
I'm not going to pretend I've always agreed with you.
You just chose to be a jerk in this video.
Isn't that an insult?
If you're mean to a thing, that's him being a jerk.
That's an insult.
He's acting.
This is typical Disney behavior.
They act like these.
They act like these movies are friends of theirs that they have to defend.
Oh, definitely.
I can't believe he said this about my friend.
He's like, they get delusional to the point where they come home.
They're like, T.L.J., home.
The T.L.J. is like, how was your day, honey?
He's like, it was good.
It was good.
It's like, I've got dinner on.
Because I'm the last Jedi.
Would you like to play outside?
Like, yeah.
Somebody said some mean things about me on the Internet today.
Mr. Full fat video said I wasn't very good.
Like, oh my God, that's terrible.
Don't listen to him.
You're perfect just the way you are.
He hugs T.L.J.
Let's go subvert expectations.
I love subverting expectations.
When I said I was going to make meatloaf, but instead I made lasagna.
When T.L.J. plays catch with him, he just throws the bull behind himself.
He's like, wait, how do I grab him?
How do I grab that?
He's like in this blue.
You're like, yeah, you did it.
It's shit.
It's not fun.
And I have to walk all the way over there.
But yeah, I expect you to do that.
I just feel like you're I just feel like you're subverting expectations so much.
I expect you to subvert them.
And now I feel like we're caught in this terrible loop.
You just chose to be a jerk about this video.
Yet you're acting confused why some didn't respond well to that.
Spoilers, even if you tried to like it, that doesn't excuse
literally any of what I called out here.
Oh, my God.
And just to reiterate it.
So there's no confusion.
This isn't about you not liking it.
I'm not talking down to you.
I'm trying to reach out here.
Fuck you haven't.
Interesting.
I'm not talking down to you.
You just sit and think about why this film is amazing.
Not talking down to you.
You just need to shut up and think about what I've told you.
Please tell me that this ends there.
If the film themselves before they heard people taking the piss.
Oh, God, Jesus.
Okay, so I'm surprised full fat videos keeps responding, honestly.
Yeah, I think it's like is crazy person.
I could entertain myself for a few minutes.
You're inferring that from my opinion.
I'm not saying it was shot on a smartphone.
You're taking issue with an opinion you don't agree with.
You're adding extra texture that wasn't there before.
I can talk about a movie.
However, I want.
You don't dictate that.
What I find ridiculous is when I went out of my way to say some positive things.
Insist people can like it if they wish.
Um, yeah.
And the commenter seems to be blissfully unaware of that
because he didn't finish the video, I guess.
Um, if you want to be upset over my opinion on a Star Wars movie, that's your call entirely.
And that you're ignoring the point.
Have a nice night.
I've said all I needed to.
You didn't dislike that one, though.
No, I guess he he posted the comment that screenshot it and then hit dislike probably.
Well, we can finally continue with the video now.
Maybe just express your opinion, but I don't know.
Don't be a buzzkill.
Don't be a buzzkill.
You must express your opinion in the correct way that the Disney.
Any.
That any any disloyalty to the brand will be reported to the mouse.
Look at this.
Why we're awake as a Jedi shot in film while rise was clearly shot in a crayon.
How dare you?
Why are you saying such mean things?
I can't believe it.
Oh, I'm not synced up.
I'm at 1213.
Oh, yeah, same.
But doing so, I loved Rise of Skywalker.
I loved it enough that this five and a half page script was done the day I.
Wait, wait, whoa.
I thought you're supposed to whoa.
I thought you're supposed to wait a while, dude.
Damn, he did this in the first day.
So you can spend a day writing a script.
But if he uh oh, I that kind of sounds like one rule for me and one rule for me.
You got to spend more than a day, buddy.
I heard that from a really good authority that you've got to spend more than one day.
You might want to wait until the film isn't in cinemas anymore.
Yeah, then maybe your stomach.
What's the opposite of a stomachache?
Your stomach pleasure will be over a stomachache.
Stomach pleasure.
I don't know.
I guess a stomach flusher.
Whenever whenever I eat a nice cool raspberry cheesecake, I get the stomach pleasure.
That's strong pleasure right there.
You ever just wake up and you just get you got that morning stomach pleasure.
Stomach orgasm is suggested in chat.
Belly gas.
Oh, are you talking about a stomach cum?
Oh my gosh, a belly welly.
That's what they call it.
It's killed in the process of doing so.
I loved Rise of Skywalker.
I loved it enough that this five and a half each script was done the day I started writing it.
Also, hi, I'm recording it the day I started writing it.
It's that's not something you should be proud of too much to not do this right now.
Wow.
He made a big point about her bad thing.
Why is he proud of this now?
You stayed awake till 417 a.m.
Salty video about some guy's opinion about a film that they didn't like that you love.
And this was a first impressions recording after seeing it.
Like, come on, man.
But you were fueled by the hatred.
It made you stupider.
You've joined the dark side, sir.
I started writing it.
It's three in the morning and I love this movie too much to not do this right now.
I'm not alone either.
And someday I think a lot of people will look back.
You're alone.
They said it for TLJ.
Do you remember Rags?
They're like, give it a few years.
People will consider it a masterpiece.
Give it a few years.
The only reason people think better of TLJ isn't because it's better or they think better of it.
They've just had fresher, more terrible poo that's been put closer to them now.
And they're looking longingly at the old shit.
The old shit's crusted over and it doesn't smell as bad.
I'll take my old poop.
Back on it fondly.
As to why I think that.
Once we've moved on to another trilogy, the kids watching these movies will immediately accept that
astral projection, space flying, and telepathic conversations are canon force powers and part of
the lore.
As MatPat points it out.
Well, I don't think they do, though.
I think you guys are very hopeful about the future of Star Wars.
They think it's cyclical, like the future.
People love the sequel trilogy.
Like people loved the OT and there'll be some new films that everyone doesn't like.
It's like, guys, the OT isn't going anywhere.
That's going to exist forever.
Children will watch it and love it because it's really fucking good.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
The sequel trilogy will be marred forever by its own existence.
It's fucking stupid.
Kids, like you're going to tell people, kids, what do you want to watch in this?
Unfortunately for them, the OT age is really fucking good because there's miniatures.
This is one of the best ways to age, you think?
Because CGI curses a lot of movies, unfortunately.
But this is one of the ones that show a kid Star Wars in 10 years from now.
They're still probably going to think it's pretty fucking cool.
The thing is, you can see this already, like,
you know, meme worthy as it is, though people are uploading videos of their kids watching the OT
and getting really emotionally involved into it.
There's nothing like that for the sequel trilogy.
And, you know, I even know people who have kids who have introduced them to Star Wars
and they actually say, like, yeah, the kids watch the OT.
They loved it.
They watched the prequels.
They loved it.
They just don't give a shit about the sequels.
Like, they can put it on and the kid will do anything else in the room.
They won't sit and watch it.
They'll sit and, you know, play with toys or draw or something because they have no interest in it.
They won't even buy the toys.
The kids won't buy the toys, man.
Yeah, that is the biggest sign, I think.
When the merchandise doesn't sell, then, you know, you've got problems.
I love the idea that a disnoid wears this hat.
Yeah, I can't do this for another two years.
I can't do this for another two years.
Those poor disnoids, they had to deal with this for so long.
And yet again, fight in the good fight.
Oh, apparently there's a newer version of that.
Sorry, hang on.
Oh, my goodness.
Themes evolved as the natural way.
Let's figure out the plot in the novels.
Submit expectations, Themes.
Hyper space ram is accurate to the world.
You just didn't get what you wanted.
Oh, my God.
The lightsaber as well.
It's adorable.
These may have created the fan response.
Someone watching this movie for the first time, even in, say, five years,
won't have read any theories and won't be invested in the plot threads that don't actually.
Why do you pretend like the OT won't exist?
Yeah, it's still here.
It's not going anywhere.
If anything, it's got the fact that it's so beloved now
when it's already had like 30 plus years to be around.
Like it's already withstood time in a way that we are a part of a generation
that those films weren't necessarily made for.
Like we're we're carrying them on from our parents generation.
So we're not carrying like you could argue we're pushing the prequels as well.
But, you know, our selection right now, I don't think we really are.
The OT is the Golden Guard for Star Wars.
That's how it is for us.
But why wouldn't that be the case 50 years from now?
I think he thinks that sequels literally replace the ones that came before.
It's not how it was.
Like maybe he thinks that maybe he thinks that he's upset
because the sequels were supposed to replace the other stuff and it's done the opposite.
Well, you know, if you give Disney long enough,
they're going to make sure because they're already putting out
only the updated version, the mouse updated version.
The Disney friendly version.
Yeah, the McClunky versions.
They're already putting those up on Disney Plus.
Like you finding the original unadulterated ones were easy at the moment.
I still have my old VHS copies of the unadulterated ones.
I think you can still get it through through the high seas, if you know what I mean?
You can. Yeah, the old versions.
Yeah, there are some what happens on sale is what you mean, right?
Yes, on sale. Yes.
High sales.
That's what I meant to say.
Yes, this happens.
13 year old me didn't scream.
What dark side force users don't have lightning power?
I've never seen that before.
When the Emperor's absolute in the last 10 minutes of the last film,
he wasn't a ghost when he did it.
Yeah, I was going to say these are not stop.
Also, the logic of a 10 year old doesn't fucking matter to me.
When I was super young, I didn't notice stuff.
It's like, OK, that's great.
All right, then said, whoa, cool.
It's a feeling.
OK. It's a feeling.
Oh, is that it?
All you all you have is OK.
Yeah, it was an odd abrupt ending.
All you have is just a feeling.
Oh, because that's what they say in the movie over and over again
to explain plot holes.
Oh, yeah, it's just a feeling.
It's just a feeling.
So many feelings.
It's so great when people make arguments like that.
Oh, did the film, I guess, said was wrong
and I need to reevaluate my life and kill myself.
Yes, we did it.
And before I decide to do anything else, I was going to ask,
how much time do you lads believe you have
before you might need to shove off this mortal coil?
I hopefully won't shuffle off this mortal coil just yet,
but I probably will come off the stream pretty soon.
Like we talk in minutes, hours.
For only minutes, pretty tight.
And Teal Deer, what are we looking at?
Yeah, probably about the same.
Well, then, right.
Well, we got there two videos.
I do have a question.
What is the third video?
The third video was another defense of Rise of Skywalker
from a different video essayist.
How long is it?
It's 15 minutes.
That's the longest of the three.
Oh, I'm doing it lads.
I'm in.
Well, let's go.
I mean, the entire sequel trilogy today.
I am not putting that time.
That time is not wasted.
I'm redeeming it right now.
Let's go.
What about poor drinker?
He's have to go.
No, I'm sorry.
Yeah, you know, you know, you can come.
You can come back.
Yeah, I can still be going when I get up tomorrow.
Both of you could.
I mean, they let me.
They keep letting me back on.
It's true.
Yeah, I talked to the manager about it.
Some waves going on.
And I've I've done terrible things.
Terrible things.
We give it out too much stomach pleasure.
He has the rags has failed to de resonate over this entire time.
There are a lot of new words in our vocabulary today.
Yeah, the defense of the rise of Skywalker.
You just learn new words.
So well, I was going to say we have options.
There are memes for us to go through rags, but I don't know if they'll work for Mr.
Tildia.
They're going to be weird to look at.
Obviously, we have super chats.
We could watch another video.
What do you what do you reckon?
My my advisor, my wonderful muse.
Well, I guess I'd rather have our guests with us if we're going to cover a video.
Well, I mean, drinker said no, but Tildia said yes.
So good.
What do we do?
It is 713 for me.
We started a little after two.
So we're doing about four and a half hours.
I'm OK to go on.
I guess it just depends.
Do we want to save this video for later or do we want to do it now?
I mean, I'm kind of down with whatever.
I feel like we've got a we got a full episode done here.
It's just and we can always save it for another time along with other things.
Sure.
So shall we go to are we going to do by the way, guys?
Some of the memes today have been really, really good.
I've been scrolling through the eFAT memes on the Discord and they are.
They are quite good.
I usually end up collecting them once the episode's over for the next episode.
I've got all the memes together.
I was just I just wanted to say, Chad, some of these are really good.
I know everybody wants us to cover more stuff.
I know they put a chance like more videos.
Do it.
Do it stream forever.
Never stop.
The fucking J one is so funny.
Oh, my goodness.
Yeah, I don't know.
I figure the smart thing to do is probably going to be we'll we'll be doing super chats
and then halfway through them.
I'll do some memes with rags, I guess.
Then the rest of the chats and they'll probably call it an episode there.
Yeah, sure.
We will say don't worry.
This video will get covered eventually.
Hopefully I'll find a companion video for it.
Like another Rise of Skywalker video that says, you know what?
You were wrong.
It's actually thematically strong.
You'd be like, oh, we really should find ourselves a debate.
Which one was better and just have them go at it and see if we can.
Like bring on two guests.
One that hates Rise of Skywalker, but loves TLJ and then vice versa.
Oh, yeah, let's get like, I don't know.
Like, oh, what if we got people from the past?
Like, could we get like a Major Lee?
Um, I think he likes does wait.
I don't know if he does, actually.
I don't know.
It's just an example.
My dream dream person would be Quinton.
Bringing Quinton on for team pro TLJ and TROS.
He fucking hates TROS.
He'd never come on, but I would I would I would promise him.
I wouldn't even make a comment in relation to anything just to listen to that happen.
It'd be so funny.
I don't know who we'd bring on for the other side, though.
Maybe this guy.
The one we just covered.
I don't know.
I don't know.
We've come across anybody who loves the Rise of Skywalker and hates TLJ.
Seems to me that anybody who loves Rise of Skywalker also likes TLJ.
Yeah.
Yeah, we should.
Yeah.
Let's get some suggestions.
Maybe we could find some people, cover some people.
Maybe if this guy wants to come on and defend his dog shit film
and we can get someone else to defend their dog shit film
and then they could just go at it and we could sit there and just.
Yeah, just sit back.
I'm proud of ourselves.
Get Ben Shapiro.
Create Ben Shapiro.
This is Quentin reviews about style.
Oh, my God.
That's actually perfect because Ben Shapiro thought TLJ was terrible.
And he thought Rise of Skywalker was really good.
That's the literal opposite.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, yes.
Ben Shapiro, please come on.
You've happened to make Quentin reviews and stuff.
You don't have anything more important to do.
We'll make sure it's not on the Sabbath.
Everything will work out just fine.
Yeah, you have no idea how much that's like now a dream by to see that happen.
But they don't mention politics whatsoever.
They talk to Star Wars.
Yeah.
Anyway, in that case, if we are going to jump to Superchance next,
would you like to eject Mr. Critical Drinker?
You can tell the old eFap chat about your channel for a bit, shall you?
Yeah, just before I eject myself.
Yes.
So I am the critical drinker and I do movie and TV reviews
and I do it usually after having a few drinks.
So it allows me to be a little bit more eloquent and belligerent at the same time.
And I've done a whole bunch of stuff.
Most of the Star Wars movies under Disney.
I'm reviewing Star Trek Picard at the moment and having quite good fun tearing that to shreds.
So if you're inclined to subscribe to my channel, then feel free.
Much appreciated.
We always like having you on, my good man.
And it shouldn't be too long before we just drag you back on again to talk about Star Wars,
Picard, Doctor Who.
We should, you should do something with Jay sometime.
He hates Doctor Who right now, too.
Yeah, I've seen him on Twitter talking about this.
Yeah, I think the current series is just coming to an end now.
So it's a good time to like look back on it, I guess.
But no, thank you for having me on.
It's always a pleasure.
And yeah, we'll try and get something arranged in the future.
Absolutely, sir.
Goodbye.
All right.
Bye bye.
See you later.
Bye.
And, uh, TLD, do you want to, do you want to hang around for a bit or do you want to
jump out?
It's completely up to you.
Like I said, I am down to continue the videos.
I must go and get a drink and many drugs first.
That would be it.
We're probably not going to do any more videos for tonight.
Oh, no.
I'm so sorry.
But I mean, you know, my motivation boner is gone.
You have to come back.
I'll have a boner for next time.
I was going to say, you know, we'll totally have your back if you want.
I might have to do that.
I may have to.
He might have.
I might have to come back to.
He sounds like a bad thing.
Oh my God.
So you might just have to eat fat more than once in your life.
Just to make sure we must fight the disnoids.
I love the fact that it needs to be a term now for the blatant Disney
apologists who just ask for arguments to excuse anything.
It's the perfect term for it.
I love it.
If it does, it does like its memes.
There's a good chance it'll at least be an eFap community meme.
I don't know if it'll get any further than that.
But it doesn't matter as long as it's somewhere in the road.
Yes, it's all
disnoids.
All right.
I'm going to I'm going to load these up.
Start reading them.
And once we get through a decent chunk, I'll I'll do some memes.
That's that sounds a good good plan to you, Mr. Ragu.
You know, that sounds all right with me.
Excellent.
All right.
Scrolling.
Here we are.
Yay.
And we open with Creamy Sheave himself as you guys keep saying how Gideon found the body
at the end of Mando, episode five.
But have you seen the video with evidence that it was Boba Fett who found it?
Oh, no, I just assumed they wanted us to think it was Gideon.
Yeah, I guess.
I mean, I what's weird is that they showed that as if it's unusual.
Anyone would find it.
Like, of course, somebody was going to find it.
There was a bounty and attracting Boba on it.
And of course, somebody was going to show up.
Kind of weird to imply that don't make me think about Mando.
We don't have to have the we still have to organize that second part of the stream
at some point.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
We got to cover the terrible, terrible other episodes.
We'll have to have to check out when Shad's available.
Barney is a dinosaur from their imagination.
Watch him in this Star Wars.
He'll be sheaves salvation.
Hashtag Star Wars didn't kill itself.
I don't know what we're supposed to make of that.
The account is John Ellis Bush Bush.
John Ellis Bush.
This one simply says hey, wags.
Hey, rags me again.
Pooping with the door open free Hong Kong.
Free Hong Kong.
But keep that door closed when you poop.
Don't be with the coronavirus floating around.
You got to get that door closed.
When you expose your Anus, when you do the poopings,
the coronavirus could go right up there.
Always exposed.
It's a it's a it's a matter of context.
Well, not if you wear a Anus cover.
An Anus cover.
That seems that's just that's just that's just don't seem right.
Not your thing.
Yeah, that's fair.
Why would you ever cover your Anus?
There's a lot of reasons.
I'm going to go into them.
They're very bigoted reasons.
It's probably none of them that could know.
I don't think anyone will check out.
Carry on.
Hi, everyone on Efab.
Also, hi, rags.
Hello.
Did you hear that Trost Cannon book said Palpy was a clone?
Yeah, I did.
Yeah, I heard.
I heard about that, which just I don't know if that clears up questions or raises more.
It raises more for me, definitely.
It's like, OK, where, where, where, why, why die?
Right.
Well, it also removes the stakes.
What's to stop him from going to a new clone?
Exactly.
If he could serve us thing, if he can survive the Death Star explosions,
he could survive anything.
Why was he in a Tism clone body instead of giving himself a good clone body?
And if you like, because it can't contain his power.
It's like, well, get a fresh one, at least like that one's.
Because I mean, on Camino, all those years ago, they had really healthy, strong clones.
Yeah.
Like, what the fuck?
How come he gets a shitty one?
Like, the only thing I can think of is the Camino clones, they like
age really rapidly, didn't they?
So I don't know whether it's supposed to be like, well, hang on.
That's by design.
Yeah, because Boba doesn't.
Yeah, it's like a fail safe sort of thing.
But so it's like he's seen.
Why don't you have a fail safe to have himself die faster?
I don't know.
In case his clone disagrees with him.
I don't know why I find that so for the idea of the Palpatine's clone.
There's one Palpatine who's just like, whoa, that guy over the fuck is wrong with him.
Thank goodness.
He all just pied apple on pizza.
That motherfucker can't be dressed.
I've probably been alive for like five years because you,
oh, I couldn't have expected my clone to be evil.
He's like running to his bed.
He's like, my clone is evil.
They're like, what does that mean, though?
You're pretty evil, buddy.
Like, you don't think I'm evil, do you?
Oh, you can see you can see sweat coming from above on top of their helmets.
Like, I don't you.
I don't know.
No, no, no word.
The good guys, sir, as I guess what I thought.
Thanks.
I needed you to tell me that I just needed someone else to tell me that.
His spirit was using a new body and it was falling apart because of his power.
Apparently.
Yeah, that's just whatever.
Well, of course, if you're shocking yourself, he keeps doing it.
He just doesn't know how to control it.
He's like, yeah, this is their time.
Once a trilogy, he shocks himself.
Oh, my God, that's a thing now.
Once a trilogy, Palpatine shocks him.
I've heard that before.
It's true.
Yeah, he does it once in trilogy.
Poor man.
He just doesn't know how to control it.
Oh, so this is this is some fan art so made a while back, I guess.
And it's kind of applicable.
Oh, yeah.
I remember seeing that I never understood it when I first saw it on the stream.
Why when I saw this with that context, I didn't know what the fuck was going on.
Where's the key for this?
Man, look at those horns.
I've got there.
There's like these are powered up.
Those are you are evil.
Mm hmm.
Chad did say red doesn't mean evil.
We've got to break that stereotype that that.
Yeah, it does.
Terrible.
Very evil.
More is American accent.
Sounds like American sicko.
S.I.C.O.
Does that mean something else?
S.I.C.O.
American sicko and psycho.
There's supposed to be psycho.
Oh, can you not actually write the word psycho?
You're not allowed.
Oh, my goodness.
Probably given how fucked YouTube is with comments.
Well, yeah, maybe I haven't seen that movie in a while.
Christian Bale, he's also a Welshman.
Did you hear the leaked page from T.R.O.S.
novel that Palpatine is a clone?
Guess you have to buy that third party material to understand movies now.
Oh, yes, that's been since TFA, by the way.
The novel tried to explain how Poe survives in TFA, which is fucking bullshit.
You should be dead.
What was the answer?
What does it say?
Um, I think it's that he got out of the ship, didn't see Finn anywhere
and just immediately left and then got a ride somewhere
and then managed to get a ship back to the base.
That's like didn't see Finn.
Okay.
All right.
I'd have to go and check it again.
It's bullshit, obviously.
The fin was like laying out.
Nah, no, I didn't see him.
It's fine.
Okay.
Okay.
He got out the other side and didn't think to check the other side of the crash.
Well, everything on this side is fucked.
Better just walk into the desert, I guess.
It's the only logical thing to do.
Yeah.
Afternoon, all my J words, N words, E words, and M words.
Hello.
Hey.
Would you rather watch your clone have sex or have sex while your clone watched?
Have sex with your clone or have sex while your clone watches?
Watch your clone have sex or have your clone watch you have sex.
My clone watched me have sex because I get to have sex.
Again, context was question.
What if it was like, you know, Jabba the Hutt you were having sex with?
It's like at that point, you're like, I'd rather watch the person, I guess.
Would you rather watch your clone have sex with Jabba the Hutt?
Than have sex with Jabba the Hutt?
Yes.
Well, I'm just, I feel like you, I feel like you adding Jabba the Hutt to this equation
takes it a little bit further than what is implied.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
I meant to say human intercourse, of course, not fucking.
Human intercourse.
Thank you.
I would rather have the human intercourse than have my clone watch.
Clone would like that shit.
I watch it.
Wait, I watch other people have sex all the time.
Oh, yeah, there you go.
But not with Jabba the Hutt.
Not with Jabba the Hutt.
Yeah.
I had something awesome to tell you, but I forget.
Oh, well, that's, that's all right, though.
You'll think of it later.
Hello, my fluffy Ewoks and rags.
Hello.
Hello.
If Mando was sent after Grievous, who would win?
Grievous.
Mando would try and hang him.
Singing one more time.
If Mando was sent after General Grievous, who would win?
Grievous, obviously.
Mando would be like, I'll try burning him.
And then Grievous would just hit him with the lightsaber and he's like, ah.
Ah.
I don't know if you grabbed that, but me and Rags think Mando sucks.
Mando's kind of an idiot.
I think I meant the person.
It's possible.
I still haven't seen it, honestly.
I don't trust Disney.
Like, anything Disney is just like, no.
Oh, you're not a Disneyoid.
Unsurprisingly, no.
Just fuck Disney.
Fuck Disney.
That's all I can say.
It is a terrible, horrible company.
Duck Fizzney.
If you could have any actor play any role, what actor and what role,
I want to see the timeline where Robin Williams played the Joker.
Hmm.
Kind of a cool choice, I guess.
Hmm.
That would be interesting.
I think that would work, though.
Yeah, he could do something fun.
I'd like to see Ian McKellen play.
Play who?
Gandalf.
Ian McKellen.
We already did that, though.
But he does.
Did we?
Yeah.
I want to see it again.
Oh, he did, again, in The Hobbit.
That's true, actually.
Yeah, he did do it again.
Okay, I don't want to see it again.
I retract my statement.
That is a good question.
I'm trying to think of what...
I think there have been times where I'm like,
damn, I'd love to see blah, blah, blah, do blah, blah, blah.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
I'm trying to think.
What was the question?
Just to be sure.
If you could choose, what out of all of them,
actors, would you choose to play out of all of them a role?
You know, it'd be really interesting.
William Defoe as Norman Bates.
I mean, that could work, yeah.
Yeah.
That would be fun.
Probably.
Probably.
I'm thinking Danny DeVito as Rocky.
Um.
I'm trying to think of where I would place Charles Danse.
I don't want him to do it.
I want him to do it.
He's like, oh, the Gandalf.
He's just this foul mouth little hobbit.
Hey, why would he be foul mouth if he's Charles Danse?
No, he's not Charles Danse.
He's Danny DeVito.
Oh, shit.
Okay.
Danny DeVito is Frodo.
I mean, yeah,
unironically, I would love to see that tricks or anything with him.
He's just Danny DeVito.
Harald Schwarzenegger is Frodo.
Oh, yeah.
There's so many choices to make.
Hey, William Defoe would make a great column.
Yeah, that could work really well.
I'm something of a ring bearer myself.
I give up.
There's too many choices.
I want like all of the things, basically.
I want to see everyone as everything just to see what we can get.
Yeah, all right.
Damn it, more.
I got to work in an hour.
Oh, well, enjoy yourselves.
I'll see your tisms later.
Goodbye, sir.
Enjoy work.
Hello, waggly, tagly, ragelton.
Oh, hello.
So do we think Bob Iger was interviewing baby Yoda on a casting couch on Epstein Island?
I'm not going to say it's impossible.
I'm not sure.
I can't say.
So, yeah, interesting.
Seize thumbnail.
Why do Ray lows exist?
One of those lonely, sad, pathetic people who have an extremely unhealthy idea of what
relationships are.
It's one of those wonders of the world number eight or nine or whatever.
It's just just makes you wonder.
Yeah, mostly fat single women on tumblr.
Wow, that's that's sexual harassment to those women.
It took all the foreign away.
Yes.
So they have to come up with these really weird substitutes.
Ray low.
Uh, very fine shipping is a thing is awful.
Hey, ifappers ass or boobs.
Ass.
Yeah, I am partial to honestly to both.
This just, you know, it's not an answer.
So the answer means that I like them both.
I don't know if that was unclear.
No, you got one one over the other.
So like gun to my head, I guess.
Like like the scenario is one of them has to be stripped from the face of the earth.
Just imagine that your girlfriend comes in and she asks you.
So which part of me do like you think is the most hot?
Which one do you like the most?
My boobs or my.
Mm.
You're looking at her.
You got it.
You got to tell her.
I think I think I'm going to go with boobs.
I'm so sorry.
Yeah.
I guess it depends because everyone's different, you know?
You know, what if they're like a really, really bad boobs,
but then amazing ass like what do you do then?
Hmm.
Well, I think I guess in in general.
You could ask things like, well, what do you face or the toe?
I was thinking, well, if they're it looks like they've been headbutting a belt sander,
then I guess I'll go for the toe.
There's a really good toe and a really bad face.
Like, listen, she's ugly as sin, but man, she has a great pose.
And you get those really awkward dates where it's like,
I'm sorry, I'm going to have to put paper bag on your foot.
All the ways I just come.
Can you please cover up your toe?
Let me take my socks off.
It's like, no, no, no, keep them.
I like the way they feel.
Yeah, that which I can't do.
By the way, I cannot keep socks on.
I got to have bare feet.
I always have bare feet because I'm a dog.
If gaming overcooked when it's not it's not two player.
I mean, well, that's not a reason not overcooked.
I've heard that's a very fun game.
Rags and I should look into it.
But then again, we've got we should we should do another gaming.
I say that once per month, I guess.
But yes, we should do another game like the cat with a newspaper meme.
Yeah, we should do a gaming.
We'll do that at some point.
We do need to do it.
We need to do another gaming pretty soon.
Milk me for my were rhino milk rags.
Uh, are you a rhino?
Because if not, then I don't know if you're going to have rhino milk.
And if you're not a rhino, it means I have to milk you
to get the rhino milk that you have, like in the fridge or something.
Wait, what deal that we have to milk them for the milk they have in their fridge.
What?
No, let you say milk me for like my rhino milk.
And if you're not a rhino, you're not going to produce rhino milk from doing that.
So I assume that you have rhino milk and like storage somewhere
like the fridge and in exchange for me milking you, you will give me that.
It's like a barter system.
Have you seen the new Patrick Willems Star Wars video?
It's the funniest thing I've ever seen.
I have not.
Perhaps we can give that a gander.
See what he says.
He's a he's a funny one.
Uh, have you guys kept up with Gorilla's song machine?
No, you guys listen to Gorilla's at all?
Um, not really here and there.
I've listened to some of their stuff, but none of their like newer things.
Uh, I rags.
Hello.
The DuckTales reboot is pretty universally liked.
Good characters, mature storylines and great humor.
You asked if there were any good new versions of old things.
Also, high regs.
Hey, let's look up DuckTales.
I mean, yeah, that's good news, I guess.
I guess it's like 2017 looks like or.
It seems to be rated highly.
Um, I don't know.
After after we're done watching another cartoon show
that we don't think is good, whose opinion you're not ready for.
Maybe we could watch some DuckTales.
That's.
Yeah, man.
It looks like it's really high scores.
It's fucking long, though, I will say we got a long guide list.
Yeah, it looks like the.
Yeah, it looks really highly rated.
TLDR or TLDR, I guess, is what I should be saying,
even though they've spelled it TLDR.
How offensive.
Hey, I'm so happy you're here.
Hi, I am also happy that I something.
I can't wait till you see mother tells in in the Clone Wars.
All right.
I can.
Yeah, I think I can wait, but I appreciate it a little bit.
Wait a little bit.
See old mama.
Um, why do you think interstellar is bad?
What's.
Yeah, Mahler.
Hang on.
What the fuck?
I should, like, could have saved that sentence.
I said to to Jeremy, and it's just my just the leave me alone argument for interstellar.
Um, interstellar is like the worst thing in terms of things that aren't the worst thing.
I'm being hyperbolic.
It's very bad.
The the navigation with love.
The giving the formula to control gravity through binary spiritually sent through time
into the clicks the ticks of a watch.
I find all of that to be complete fucking nonsense,
and you find that it takes place in the fourth dimension.
Like, how does that feel to you guys like being told that?
Does that feels like it feels it sounds like nonsense.
Because it is sounds like they're just making shit up.
Uh, someone asked what navigation with love.
So I think I've explained this before, but let's do it again.
You've got three planets to check out.
I think it's three for the sake of the argument.
Let's just say it's three because I can't remember.
Um, you check out one turns out it's bullshit,
and it fucks you up to the point where you can only check one more.
So rags, we did.
We check out the stats on the planets.
One of them says, yeah, it's all good.
Thumbs up.
The other one says 50 50.
Yeah, we can only go to one.
Which one do you choose?
Oh, we go to the one that would give us the high probability of success.
We'll go to the first one.
The thumbs up one.
All right.
Let's go.
Wait, wait, wait.
One of our crew members has just said that she would like to go to the 50 50 planet.
Oh, my goodness.
Why?
When you ask it, why?
Yeah, yeah, okay.
So she said that, um, you know, it could it could work out to be that could it could it's we don't,
you know, uh, and then you find out that her husband is on that planet.
Because the human is like, oh, okay.
So you guys the mission and the rest of our lives just to get to your husband.
You'd think that might have been a response, but no, she says,
Look, love is still kind of a thing we don't, you know, completely understand.
And like, if you think about it, it's pretty powerful.
It's kind of like it transcends like most things and maybe how much I love that guy on
that planet is kind of like the universe telling us that's where we should be going.
Oh, well, that sounds like some pretty fucking intense post hawking right there.
It's like the stupidest part of the whole movie that no one ever defends.
Oh, someone wrote that someone in chat said, but they tell her she's wrong, though.
One of the characters is like, this is not it's not a good idea.
She's like war and she's like annoyed at him.
It's the fact that they actually wrote that it's so fucking terrible.
Oh, yeah, and it turns out she's right. By the way,
the out of the two planets, the 5051 was actually the correct one.
Interstellar and this ended with also high regs.
Hello.
If the 2022 movie was suddenly being called Episode Seven, would you be interested or worried?
I'd be interested.
Say that. Yeah, what is it? What does he mean?
So if they made the next episode of Star Wars and they called it Episode Seven,
implying a retcon, would you be interested?
Very interested.
It would be so funny, though, like if it was bad again.
This person wants us to scream for Oliver like like infinity tisms.
Scream for Oliver?
Yeah, we know when they're like for Oliver in the in the in the finale.
No way is it episode four or five? I think it's five.
It's I don't know. It's all just kind of like a mushy, blendy blur in my head.
You know, for infinity tism.
Yeah, it's just all just mixed together.
It's hard to episode four, episode five. I don't fucking know.
It's all just I think it's because he dies in four for the second time.
Do you remember when the guy is like, I wasn't there for him when he died twice.
It's like you were alive with what didn't exist.
You fuck.
If only I could. It was my fault for not existing.
I should have existed.
It also had been there.
Oh, relax.
So that was that quote is from Bebo Baggins.
Bebo.
Glad to have drinker back.
Look at the R.L.M. most recent reply tweet to Rick Berman.
And who's Rick Berman?
Again, I forget.
Isn't that someone to do with Star Trek or something?
Red Letter Media Twitter.
Rick Gorman, TV producer, executive producer of, yes, of Star Trek shows.
Looks like T and looks like TNG, Star Trek, TNG, Deep Space Nine,
Voyager and Enterprise, as well as the Star Trek films.
And he ultimately succeeded Gene Roddenberry as the head of the franchise
until the cancellation of Star Trek Enterprise in 2000.
Born in 1945.
Can't find what the tweet.
Oh, there it is.
Uh, so Rick Berman put out a tweet saying, how's everyone enjoying Star Trek Picard?
And Red Letter Media responded.
I love the part where.
He got his eyeball ripped out while screaming and bleeding everywhere.
Then he almost got drilled into his brain by some kind of red hot skull saw.
Then seven had to shoot him in his heart and she made a 20 people to get revenge.
I love Star Trek now.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, oh, sorry.
Star Trek fans.
Oh, my goodness.
Afraid of that tweet.
Oh, yeah, hang on.
Wonder if we'll ever have a year where loads of good stuff comes out,
but like most of it, I don't mean like we get like one or two bad movies and that's it.
There's an interesting ratio on that first tweet.
Here.
Oh, like four point eight K likes and two point four K responses.
I'm assuming most of the responses are very negative.
I really love seeing my childhood hero reduced to limping around apologizing for stuff.
He hasn't done because the entire premise of the show is stupid and insulting.
Oh, man.
Oh, man.
I've been saying for years, decades even.
What if Star Trek had some guys with swords to, you know, cut people's heads off and stuff?
Never thought we'd get a visionary like Alex Kurtzman to make that happen for us.
Live long and fucking prosper.
Oh, my goodness.
I always thought Star Trek was missing torture porn to make it more realistic.
I think this is the the Chad Long guide versus the Virgin Desnoid.
Jesus logical statements. Long way.
Long critique is good.
Redrafts.
I like this trash gift.
The Chad Longnoid.
Hope is like the sun.
It burns you.
I can imagine that quote coming from this face.
Like it's like it's a clinical insect creature.
Yes.
Hope is like the sun.
It burns you.
Don't hope.
Hope is bad.
Uh, now that our original trio has become just a dyad,
it's time for our silver paragons of Efap to rise.
Garf ringy.
Don't disappoint wolf and make videos.
Metalicious Padawan of Mauler.
Tear John Wick 2 and 3 Limb from Lib.
Jay Sinsins will be kicketh by raggers.
Hello, rags.
Oh, hey.
Yeah, funnily enough, metal's video is coming along.
Shouldn't be much more than maybe like two weeks to a month.
Even though that's kind of probably a nice year.
The better thing to say is that I saw our first draft.
It's coming right along.
He makes a lot of good points.
I'm excited for him to finally get it out
and then tell him the second he hits publish
that he's got to start working on the second video.
He's going to love that.
It's going to be great.
But soon enough.
Oh, and I think Jay's making, I saw on Twitter,
he's making a new channel that involves lots of other creators.
So that's something to get excited for as well.
All kinds of things are happening.
Sup my e-words.
Have you heard about the new Star Wars project?
They never learn, do they?
Yeah.
What was it?
What was it called?
Star Wars High High Republic, I think.
High Republic.
Yes.
And that whole trailer is just.
If I was in that, if I was in that fucking universe,
I'd be high all the time, too.
If someone, if I had the chance to make a story in that universe,
I'd be like, do you mind if I just don't reference anything?
I'm just going to make my own thing, because, oof.
Also, Mueller, have you tried Disco Elysium?
It's a very, it's very geode.
I have not.
You know what Disco Elysium is?
It's an indie game on Steam.
Nido.
Super Nido.
Digimon Adventure is getting a reboot.
Nothing is safe.
Hopefully, Japan treats it decades old.
Media treats its decades-year-old media better than the West.
Also watch TNG Massives.
Rags has seen that.
I've seen it on your first four seasons.
A lot of really good episodes in them, too.
There's some good stuff in there.
So TROS completely ripped off an old Star Wars comic
that a lot of fans didn't like.
Imagine My Shock.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Yeah, that's why here is a lot of the ideas in the sequel trilogy
are ripped from EU stuff.
And the worst versions of it, apparently.
Yeah, badly ripped.
Just covered my GF with rhino milk.
It was glorious.
Oh my.
Oh my goodness.
Don't waste your rhino milk.
Yeah.
He's...
Exhore it didn't happen.
I'm sure he thinks that, you know, he could just drink it up
once it's been poured over.
You know, as long as he does a good, thorough job,
as long as she has one of them good faces, not bad faces,
probably have an easy time of it, I suppose.
Movie, movie blob is preparing for the dire beat down.
Wow.
The dire beat down.
The dire beat down would be his finisher, I think.
The dire beat down.
That's funny.
Snoke and pineapple pizza.
That's all this says.
Oh, well, fair enough.
Naming horrible things, I guess.
Hey, Teal Deer is finally here.
Been a fan of yours since 2015.
He is to many future efaps with you on.
Hey, you got a fan.
Oh, wow.
I never thought that would happen.
Yeah, I know, I know.
Some people have heard of you, apparently.
Oh, it's crazy.
Yeah, God knows why.
Kylo can regenerate like Doctor Who.
New actor, baby.
Yeah, maybe.
Maybe they'll do that to try and like...
They want to bring Kylo back so desperately.
They're just like, we'll use fucking...
He's clone of Kylo.
Jesus, yeah.
Everyone can come back as a clone.
If Palpatine can come back as a clone,
give me a fucking reason why anybody can't come back as a clone.
He's a darkside user, Rags.
That's why he could do it.
No one else can, because they're all like...
Anyone could be a darkside user secretly.
True.
Because, I mean, if Ray's a Palpatine, why not?
Yeah, why not?
Like, do it.
Have you guys seen the High Republic trailer?
Yes, we have.
Just mentioned it.
Yeah, it was.
It was.
We should rename Twitter to Swaner.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Is it because swans are evil?
That's what we were talking about earlier.
Really, earlier.
Swans are assholes.
Mauler.
I watched all of Buffy because of your constant praise,
and it was amazing.
Thoughts on Warren?
I don't know how much...
Let me read this first in case it's spoilers.
Um, no, I don't think you're supposed to like him.
He's a fucking piece of shit.
But I've not heard people who do.
Chat demands a Buffy stream.
I mean, let me show Fringy and Rags that show,
which I'm getting around to slowly,
because it takes ages to show someone 12 seasons of a thing
when they're not even that invested in it at the beginning.
But I'll get there eventually,
and then we can...
We'll totally do a stream talking about it
because we have Nudratic on.
Even Aiden too.
We could have the five of us discuss it.
Oh my god.
We'll have to see.
Hopefully, you know, I'm currently having Fringy watch it.
He's almost done with season one.
He thinks it's awful,
which is everything is proceeded as expected.
It's all good.
Oh, and I gotta show Metal it too, yeah.
Metal's like the only person who's escaped me
having to show this long.
So I've known him for ages,
but I still haven't forced him to watch it.
You know, Clockwork Orange style.
It's very strange, I should.
Oh god.
Has Ragsz has had three beers already?
No.
No.
I am lucid and clear minded,
and I am in full control of everything that I'm doing.
But I do need to use the loot.
So I'll be back in just a second.
Oh my god.
Someone said,
Buffy is good, but Angel better than Buffy.
That just reminds me of when Steve Shives said
that he prefers Angel to Buffy.
He asked his, I guess, girlfriend or wife or whatever
that does that make him sexist?
And she said, yes.
Yes, Steve Shives and his wife,
they have strange relationship.
She is one of those ultra insane people
where it's everything is sexist somehow.
Like literally anything and or.
Yeah, I'll be a tough way to live, to be honest,
because it would sort of wear you down, I imagine.
That's probably why Steve keeps,
he's just got that face that eternally is like,
you know, blinking for help.
Like it's like, I'm actually concerned about him a little bit
because every time you see him with his wife,
he looks so uncomfortable all the time.
Like he's always shifting his eyes around.
Like he's not sure what to do and not sure how to react.
And like he's sort of really feeling under pressure
and like really thinking very hard about what he's saying,
like proper on-edge shell sort of stuff.
It's a completely different attitude
to how he like does pieces to the camera
when he's by himself.
Did you see that clip of, is it Jimmy Fallon?
Like almost got canceled.
It reminds me of that.
He had RuPaul on and said she's a drag queen
and she like, well, he, whatever.
I don't fucking know who,
I don't know anything about RuPaul,
but the reaction is like shock and disgust.
And he like Paul, it's like a joke,
but he doesn't realize that at first.
And he thinks that he's just fucked up beyond all belief.
And I feel like that's probably
what Steve Shise has to do every day.
Like everything he says, he's like, oh fuck,
did I just do a sexism?
Oh yeah, definitely.
It's so funny people talking about that.
He blocked me.
He's blocked everyone.
I was gonna say, I've never interacted with him.
I'm sure he's blocked me.
Oh, I guarantee it.
There is, because this, it started many, many years ago
when he actually published a video when he was like,
he'd mentioned something like,
oh, maybe there is an epidemic of like men
being victims of domestic abuse.
And I authored a video responding to him
and I was like, here is the crime statistics on it.
You'll notice men and women.
It's about the same.
You got anything to say about that, Steve?
And he blocked me.
And then lots of us, because this was when I tried.
I'm surprised you were blocked already, I'm surprised.
I know me too.
But then some of us have started joking.
Tag blocked by Steve or hashtag blocked by Shives.
And it's still going.
The hashtag still exists, like six years later.
Because it just goes and goes and goes
because he blocks everyone.
Everyone.
Yeah, when I was on Twitter, I just said,
I disagree with some things that you say and he blocked me.
That's fucking harsh, dude.
That's extreme.
I texted the tweet to him and took a nap.
And when I woke up from the nap, I was blocked.
I'm like, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That Star Wars girl's in chat.
She's in Twitter jail right now
because she made a tweet describing her friends
as pimps and hoes.
As a second little friendly thing.
She got fucking banned for it.
It's like, what the hell?
It's amazing.
Twitter is a very tolerant place like that.
Well, this is the thing, right?
Like, I have to be very careful on Twitter.
There's a lot of things you just you can't joke about even
because what are just like, no, you can't joke on Twitter.
You can't because someone will take it the wrong report.
Yeah.
And then this stupid bots like don't tell the difference, I guess.
It's yeah, it's surprising.
Well, also not being surprising, I guess,
because every time you see it happen, you're like,
really?
And then you're like, yeah, this is Twitter.
I forgot for a moment there.
Yeah, Twitter is full of very exceptional individuals.
Special.
I once met a swan that was the kindest.
Hashtag not all.
All right.
Yeah, there's some nice ones out there.
Fine.
Don't want to be misrepresenting the swan population.
Okay, guys.
Nope.
Uh, prepare your cream holes, boys.
Creamy sheave clones are coming to force lightning your dangus
and make you very gay.
Oh, my goodness.
I don't don't force.
Maybe a little bit.
Oh, God, not too much.
There's still a lot of people who don't think Ray is a Mary Sue.
How do you come to that conclusion?
What do you reckon makes them think that other usually compared to Luke?
Lordly, they're like, Oh, Luke was a person who could pilot and stuff.
That means he's the same and you don't call him a Mary Sue.
Therefore, she's not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I suppose.
But yeah.
I find that if anybody manages to categorically remove here from the title of Mary Sue,
at that point, they've distilled it to a degree that like nothing is a Mary Sue.
And I just think that we use the term to usefully describe
all of the major flaws with Ray at this point.
She's practically redefined the term.
She's sort of the go to example.
Certainly, she has become that.
Rip my wisdom teeth.
Thanks for entertainment in these trying times.
Also, private comrade rags.
Oh, Privyet, I guess.
Oh, Privyet.
Um, yeah, damn.
Again, wisdom teeth.
Old is not fun.
I'm assuming that's what happened.
Hope you're all right.
Hello, Teal Deer.
Been looking forward to when you would come on this show.
Hi.
Also, hi.
I am here now.
Yeah.
And Moopa.
Hello.
Hot damn I'm behind.
I'm watching the first part of the Farewell Wolf eFap right now.
Hello, all my n-words.
Hello, Skull on Wheels.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Hello!
May the Dawn and the Cosmic Chicken bless you all.
Why, thank you.
May the Dawn be with you.
Drinker, you charismatic alcoholic you.
Have you ever watched any-
Oh, I'll save that for him.
Banana milk.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
Wait, what?
Banana milk.
Teal Deer, I want to see you get nice and pissed off.
We came close a little bit with some of these items.
That requires me to feel it more like it.
I don't really do that.
Not for deer wars, huh?
Well, just-
I'm too many drugs, man.
Too many.
Too many drugs, too many drugs.
They just started and I'm already sab-ay-oined drunk?
Oh, beyond drunk.
Oh, boy.
Hi, Rags.
Hi.
Are the prequels better because of the sequels, or were they more of a gem in the rug?
I think I'm in the rug. I think it big
More of a more of a gem in the rug
Obviously, I think they were supposed to say rough I guess but like damn jamming the rug. It's like a gem in the rug
Um
Yeah, so people looked back on the prequels being like damn these aren't actually that bad when you think about how bad it can get
But obviously the prequels haven't changed since they were made
The conversation evolves and a lot of people have different
Takes about how everything sort of works in them
So I would just say that the sequels are making people reevaluate what they think about
The good old prequels all of you guys might like the the Invisible Man
That is a Blumhouse film that came out the Invisible Man. The trailer looked okay
It's a spooky movie where someone's scared because she's being followed. I think and it's by the Invisible Man. Yeah
Yeah, it looked interesting. Not sure if I can be bothered to cinema it but you know
I'll watch it when it comes to like a streaming thing
Ah
If good storytelling be how I think it do can you really look at women at the end of the rainbow?
That's a lot of references in one that's
Prequels are objectively great. Yes, they are rag is
Prequels are objectively great. No, they're not. Well, no, I don't think so
I mean compared to the sequels they're golden
Yeah, they're you might even say they're a like a gem in the rug sort of thing a gem in the rug
They're definitely a gem in the rug
Is rags the child of Scooby-Doo and Raggy?
No, I don't think so
Where I don't even know why you'd say what aspects of those two mix to create me
They'd be like what's a dog? You're like, mm-hmm. Well, yes, the incredible cowardice and gluttony they mix together
Avatar the Last Airbender was a show made for kids yet
That show is leagues better written than the sequel trilogy and Zuko is what Kylo Ren was supposed to be but actually makes sense
Sure
Yeah, I would say well mauler do you think the sequels or
Avatar has better writing
Well, I don't think anything could be much worse than the sequel trilogy. We're dealing with
Infinity tisms is worse. I'll give you that I guess because they fuck with like the laws of reality
while Rise of Skywalker tries to do that sort of but not really not not to the significant degree of
Infinity tism. So if they represent like zero and one on the scale
It's gonna be pretty fucking hard to be worse than that. Is that you have to be desperate
So no, yeah, I guess so
Rick Worley has a great video on Star Wars reviewers
Have no idea who that is, but I suppose I can put a note in I want to say I've heard that name before
Huh
Space children intended for Peter Wizards. Oh my god. Yay
Critical drinker is a filthy dub watcher. Oh, he said that wasn't a for real thing unless unless he didn't he realized halfway through
He wouldn't want to take that position. Maybe who knows
Shall we ever find out?
I'm not for schnizzle myself. Mm-hmm
I mean, I guess with when it comes to
um
like anime I
If I it not that it really cares what they're saying or anything or nothing it matters
but I would say that I would prefer to
Have have it dubbed
But when it comes to live-action stuff I would rather have subtitles because there's so much more of an acting component I
I
Yeah, I mean
It really does depend on the quality of the dub
I just as it's just the natural assumption that the original audio is going to be what you want
the conveyance of
emotional
And I really have no problem with reading subtitles myself a lot of the time it actually makes me
Catch things that I might have missed even with English. So, you know
Hi
Um, I understand there's an ongoing debate. We won't be able to close it here. I just I'm a I'm a one of them
Sub purists for the most part just because of how bad dubs can go. That's all
Mola can you sound like a Welsh announcer while saying this, please?
Alright a man has fallen into the river in Lego City start the new rescue helicopter. Hey
Build the helicopter and off to the rescue prepare the lifeline
Lower the stretcher and make the rescue the new emergency collection from Lego City
You guys gonna buy that
Terrible things happening. Oh
No, it's getting a terrible things the next one says kick rags. Oh, no never
I've done terrible things and I'm still here
That's true
Did me high cheek sent me high put them up to this I
Feel like he's not me high. She sent me. I think he's the grand villain behind it all the puppeteer if you will this whole time
He was he was the real Palpatine clone. Damn you me high cheek sent me high
Dammit only your name was shorter
Uh
Thoughts on the Metro series. I have not I really really liked the last light. I played that thought it was really excellent
They are pretty good
There you go glowing critical appraisal
I want to remove teal deers bass
Deferens and wrap it around my throat while I choke on Batwoman's fallopian tube
That's graphic. Mm-hmm. I'm surprised that made it in
Like weird
Weird world we live in
Is it for here to where old guys what franchises would you point to new people if they had to start at low points?
Example Halo series with four Dark Souls with two and films like Star Wars with TLJ
Why would you want to start on the low points though? I guess Terminator with three
No dark fate or Genesis. I'll happily accept those two with threes better than those two
Yeah, they're better. But it's not like if you start at the low point
I assume they'll keep going and it's all terrible right because it's like a string of low points
Yeah, but okay, but you'd agree that I you know. Yeah, like those two are worse. Absolutely
but
Like even if but if you start people on the sequel trilogy, well, then you're starting them off with the force awakens
Which is technically the best. Yeah, I guess but why would you even?
Know would you want to start someone with the worst of what something has to yeah, I was like, why would this even person?
Let's show like really trying to convince something sucks, but at that point you're just being biased
Maybe the question is if they had to start at the low point, what franchise would you direct to people? I
Guess Buffy so start you at season one. So
That works I
Guess the only the way I'm interpreting this question to be more interesting is like what franchises still work despite
starting with their low points
Hmm because Dark Souls
Yeah, if you started with two it wouldn't ruin one and three, I don't think
You
But if you start with a low point of Star Wars
I think it would damage your experience of the OT cuz you'd be like, oh I guess
Anymore I'd be done. Yeah, I don't do that. Don't stop. Why why did you do this?
Oh, yes Star Trek I think is applicable to that right a lot of people say that the initial series seasons are the worst ones
of
Not so sorry not like as the show as a whole
I mean the individual
Series is if you know, I mean so like the worst of TNG is the earlier seasons the worst of the originals of the initial
Episodes that sort of thing. I guess but yes, they all kind of take a while the going
I think that's the same with any series
Um
I think well actually Game of Thrones is best season is probably one or three
You
So Game of Thrones that won't know with yeah, so Game of Thrones is the opposite I suppose
Trying to think yeah, I mean I
Get maybe Star Trek I guess
You're trying to get people into something but you can only use its worst aspects
Are the worst versions of it essentially the worst parts of it? I don't know
Yeah, I guess
Star Trek is still well with a card or like discovery. Oh
Right, yeah, that's
Start with this is the thing is like if that we're sort of splintering the question a little bit
But it's like imagine that you were like you're you're allowed to get the person into the franchise
But you have to start with the shitty parts
For Star Wars, that's just not even
Is it worth it? Do you think putting someone through all of Disney Star Wars to get them to the OT? I?
Think if you started them there, they wouldn't care. I feel like they lose interest by the time they hit the OT. Yeah
They just wouldn't yeah if you say no, no, no, it's really really good from here on
Yeah, and it would be depressing to see these characters that they love and know what they end up being
Yeah, imagine they were like oh this. Oh, it's Luke again. He's young now
Okay
He's like, oh
He's supposed to like him
Um, yeah, all right. There we go. I think we nailed it. We got we got nice chunky answers out of that question
All right, so what's on aoe2de versus wc3dforge?
Sorry what age of empires actually released a functioning game, um
Blizzard fucked over their customers with reforged. Oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah
A lot of people are getting pissed off at blizzard for saying like hey
We own the intellectual property of the of the thing that you make in our engine. That's it's kind of weird
not something that's very uh
typical at all
I would imagine like you'd probably find that you'd find that I reckon in small print of a lot of other games
I would imagine
No, uh, I think it's like a
It's sort of a thing that they made a big deal of as being
Not a usual thing. Huh?
Possibly I I don't really know I don't
Uh when I heard about it, it was basically just like ha ha you guys
Dota, I completely understand why but ha ha
Uh
I'm guessing you guys never played war three
I know i've heard like all the terrible stuff about it. Well, I did warcraft
I've heard the original is an amazing game and the remake is just in fucking yeah warcraft 3 and the frozen throne expansion
Some of the best rts games which have ever been made. They were fantastic. The stories were amazing
Fantastic just characters plot development is great. It all expanded out very nicely in
warcraft game
basically, just blizzard
Fucked everyone over when they created the rerelease because the rerelease was broken
There was that shit about like oh you create stuff in our engine. You you don't own it
You don't have any say to it. Everything goes to us so they can get money
basically
Um, yeah blizzard is a terrible company. Everything about them has gone downhill since
I'm gonna say wrath of licking everything past that point is terrible
Because at that point they ran out of ideas. They became intellectually bankrupt
They just started bringing whatever shit back that they had it basically went kind of like star wars just like
Whatever stupid shit we can think of we're gonna we're gonna pull it all out the air who cares
Cataclysm. Oh, yeah, you know that
Killed off too. Well, he's back even though he died not only in that game, but in another one as well
and then pandas
Chinese pandas because you gotta gotta capture the chinese market and get those gold farmers in
That's where the real money's at
Oh, and there was diablo 3 in the always on d
People got really pissed off about i'm gonna stop talking now. Otherwise i'm just going to end up slandering blizzard for the next half hour
Okay
No blizzard is terrible they used to be so good as well. That's the problem
All right warcraft 2 was amazing warcraft 3 was amazing
Diablo and diablo 2 were amazing starcraft starcraft even starcraft 2 all great
And then they just fucked it over. They fucked it over because it stopped creating. Well warcraft as trs games
Or rts games. They stopped creating those which I think was a big mistake because in a lot of ways it was
uh
Technically superior to starcraft when it comes to the variable economy that you get throughout the game
I know this means nothing to youtube, but it yeah, it was great
And then they they stopped doing it because they were like nope
We're gonna do we're gonna do starcraft as the rts game and we're gonna do
world of warcraft as the gold farming mmorpg and that's where we're gonna get our money and they
rested on the laurels of that game for so many years and that is when they got lazy
And that's when they started pulling whatever shit out of their ass that they could to pad the lifetime
Of world of warcraft because it was such a big cash cow and in doing that they basically became creatively bankrupt as a company
Rip blizzard I said I was gonna stop. Otherwise, I was just gonna keep
like
Yeah, they're gonna actually gonna stop
companies that really did just
You just what happened they just turned to evil
Palpatine took over
I would take control of a computer game
I actually think the existence of blizzard would be a very compelling argument for palpatine's evil twin
Yeah, that's what he got up to
And palpatine was doing that stuff in riser skywalker his evil twin decided to make blizzard
And
He was like i'll trick people into thinking they're a good tism and then i'll turn it on them
The evilest of plans
Rage shadow legends actually looks somewhat fair for a mobile game to be honest its main competitor star wars galaxy of heroes charges up to
$2,000 for a character
$2,000 just because it's better than that does not necessarily mean it's still good
Like, you know, it's like this mitter isn't so bad. He doesn't he only kills 100 people not 10,000
Yay
But uh, yeah, that's fucking expensive. Holy shit. I don't know anything about uh star wars galaxy of heroes but
Oh man the mobile market that's um, that's a whole other thing
Um
The youtuber some black guy plays rogue shadow legends
Does he though
Like I assume that a lot of people who tell you they're playing it may not be playing it. That's just you know
I don't know maybe
They they dip in long enough to use the free currency that get from meaning
Never again
That's what I assume is that I mean
Pretty tough to stick with mobile games a lot of the time unless they're designed to be addictive which is another reason why
advertising for it is uh
Questionable. Yeah
Really tough to keep keep at it
Readings everyone. What are your favorite soundtracks from movies and video games?
Oh, we've answered this before but some of the ones that come to mind are
Stellaris mass effect on legacy
Tron legacy. Yeah, it's got good ones. Uh, let me see
Echo
There is lord of the rings
Oh, yeah
Obviously star wars
There's some there's something that you started, uh
Frank klaklaki
From the command and conquer games or just klaklaki stuff in general. It's all great
Yeah, if we go composers, uh ramen dijwadi is one of my favorites just from all the shit that he makes that's really good
Obviously han Zimmer people like him make good shit
How would quake soundtrack?
quake soundtrack go by nine inch nails
damn good
The dark souls soundtracks are always glorious
There you go, that's a whole bunch someone in chat says xcom let's be honest the only one you want
battle theme
Seven I want to say I think it's battle theme seven. That's the only good
I mean, they're all good, but that's the one which really stands out that everyone loves
Um
I mean i'm just gonna have to read this out, you know
This is the job. I gotta do it. Oh boy. I gotta do it
Oh boy, if boss nass shat in your mouth, would you say?
Oh yum film a bum or I am screaming from your big big brown creaming
I'm screaming from your big brown creaming
Oh
Whichever one you try surely it would just be hurt
Yeah, I mean I guess that they're saying post swallowing this is your question slash exclamation
Show me that boss ass
Uh, so yeah, I guess he's asking would you be in approval or disapproval of the event
of the event
Well, I can't frame it as the event
The searing the breaking the great disaster as they're calling it in uh,
Star wars thing or whatever
So we're gonna get an answer rags we have to think about it
Uh
Uh, they'd have to offer me the presidency to shill for that version of episode 10. That's a quote from jeb
Nice. Oh, wow jeb
Man's got principles if there was any reason to add a times four option on youtube. It is the long man
23 days of content and counting
Oh, is that what we're up to?
with efap
Let me check
Oh, yeah, uh with this efap we'll be
Uh, we'll be yeah, we'll have passed into a full month or well
Not a month. Sorry 24 days to
Three weeks
Three days
That's a special right rags three weeks and three days. I think it's special that sounds special to me 24
If in hours would be a day if in days would be a month. That's totally how it works
Oh happy day
I wonder how much we'll be up to by the time we hit that uh, that 100
Man that's gonna be that's gonna be a long one, isn't it probably gonna be
All day, baby the long man right there
I'm currently on efap 75 and infinite earth's part five right now
But just wanted to pop in to say hello to teal deer. Love your content. Also
Hi rags and jik. Kay
Oh rihags
rihags
And jik. Kay. Hi hags
Yeah, they said they love the content there you go. Oh, thank you. Hi. Thanks. Yeah
Yep, I don't take praise very well
Check out the coat of arms of lap land. It looks pretty hilarious for such a dark and cold place also high wags
hello
Coat of arms for lap land or of lap land
Oh my
That's
Have a look at what they described this as
That looks pretty hilarious for such a dark and cold place
All right
This is the result I got I assume. This is what they wanted me to see
Interesting if that he looks like he looks like a welshman
He kind of does especially with his his uh, his dating stick. Well, that's for his dating stick
Take that on a night in the oh my god, look at his legs. Oh jeez like they're melting
Like they're melting
What is that
Please tell me this is the actual
The image as well. This is peak masculinity, I think
This is the ideal male body you may not like it
This is it
Look at his toes
They look like thumbs
He just has thumbs on his feet
All the better to grasp women
Take them back to my cave my welsh cave
Oh, the chest is so fucked I don't know he's got tiny little boobs in the middle. Yeah, they're very scary to look at
I
Don't know if you noticed but the bible is held up to this same level of scrutiny
Can you believe there are people that think that isn't real?
I mean like the scrutiny that's held for the sequel trilogy because yeah, I mean
People like stuff to make sense that Noah's ark, you know, that one's weird
Nobody's fallen for that one except my ari teachers back in the day
Okay
Please draw ryan and jj drunk in a bar arguing
I mean
Are they old enough to drink? I don't know about that. Yeah, why not? Just might just be laws against it, you know
If you're a director you're not allowed to have help if you're ryan johnson or jj abrams, you cannot have welcome
Yeah, specifically the law was made for them
um
Some uh fast work that thanks you
Oh my goodness
Let's take a look
Humanism. Oh, no
Oh no
With job of the head. Oh, he's got the collar and everything
I have to watch my clone having sex with job
Oh my goodness job looks so happy though, it's so awesome. It's a good time
Of course, he's happy. It's a good time
Do you guys think star wars has crappy alien designs, how would you change them if you could?
Um, i'm happy with a lot of them
Yeah, i'm sure a lot of them just seem really strange to me like
I'd have to fish through for some specific examples, but some just seem
Really out there where you wonder
How do you like do things do you function?
Yeah, how do you function?
Yeah, because to a degree all of the services and you know
Things that everyone goes to the kind of humanoid ready if you know what I mean
So if you have an alien that's not humanoid, it's like I wonder how you do your things
That could be something to do in star wars though an interesting thing to explore
Like building it so that places are a little bit more
Ready to take in all kinds of uh aliens as opposed because most aliens seem to be humanoid in that universe
And that's something they seem to be committed to yeah hominids of some kind
Human intercourse with job of the hut even though there's no humans involved
That's fucking rude he's a plus-size human
We made these movies incorrectly as a joke
No, I mean if this is commentary on that first video we were looking at that also I have accidentally skipped
Couple but don't worry. I will go back
Check out the coat of arms of lapo. Let's see there you go. I'm back on track now
Yo, Moolsbury, you ever consider doing an objective analysis where they focus on themes and subtext on some weird artsy movie you enjoy like the lighthouse
Um
It would need to be a movie that i'm particularly passionate about I feel like someone will make that video while i'm making the stuff
I want to make
Like if I if I was particularly in love with the lighthouse, I probably would
I mean, I think me and rags have talked about um
On an e-fap previously like what we how we liked it and what we thought uh, a lot of it was
allegorical toward um, that house is good
But I uh, I don't see myself making that video
Yeah, I don't have like any like love for it. I think it's good
but
I mean i'd recommend people see it but I don't have any like real personal investment in it to that level
Yeah, I would have to try and like
I can see what the point of the question is though. They're like they want to sort of apply the uh
extensive analysis style onto a movie that's
Less conventional I suppose it would just i'd have to find the right movie to want to do it with
It would be possible with a lighthouse. There's loads of references to use. It's just the
I don't want to make that video that much and I feel like
I probably shouldn't work on
Projects that i'm not particularly hugely passionate about because it might it might risk not being completed
I know you're gonna meme. It's like you didn't finish the tfa one being made
Coming along. It's taking time
Though seriously that is coming along
You
Should have glassed china when we had the chance. Oh my yeah, shut up. I think that's a reference now
You got the corona virus
Now we all do we have to all deal with that one
Uh for one billion us dollars I do just about
anything
the weird thing
Anything just about anything my integrity won't matter since i'd be monetarily set for life
I
Mean if someone gave me one million, I'm like, yeah, I could do enough good with a million dollars to
One understand. I don't know. It's supposed depends where you
I was gonna say yeah
One million for sure that you are if a billion. Yeah, but a million nah
Well, I don't know you put a million dollars in the bank and you could live off the 30k interest a year, you know
And I mean where are you to get interest rates like interest rates usually have a cap they don't represent
Yeah, but they have a cap
Yeah
It may be three percent, but it'll be a maximum of x amount
I don't know
I don't know about banking and money
Well, I got a million bucks
I'll pay a banker to make bank
You pay a person to tell you how to control that million. Yeah, you could probably you could probably
Invest the million right and then never have to worry about some things or whatever. But um
If if your only concern was being set for life, I suppose that would make sense. Yeah, uh, depending on where you live though
Tildir is right if you were like in the in the heart of
Um, I don't know l.a or new york city. It probably not lasts forever or a million
Yeah, any pretty much any big city west like a million one lot wonder you
But here in arkansas, man, oh you'd be a king you'd be a god among mortals
Screw disney mulan don't go watch it. Yeah, i'm not gonna
I will be curious to know how it does but I do not have any intention of watching it
Hi rags
Hi, sorry. I know I asked this before but I can't find said stream
Is there a way to recommend people for you to cover in commentaries?
Yeah, you could send me an email or go on my uh discord and let me know there you go
But sorry, i'm sure you've answered this before. Uh, not just for me. Yeah, sorry, isn't
easy answer
Why aren't there any black people in mulan remake because they're racist because china hates black people
Like unironically china actually
I mean they don't even like it wasn't the whole point of um
Like american like hollywood tries to appeal to asian
Culture a lot or at least their asian film industry and stuff
And so they they have like asian characters put into to mainstream stuff and it just doesn't always work and they're just like
Constantly trying to figure it out. Like what do you people like?
Oh my god giant fighting robot. Yeah, that's an easy way to do it
Uh f in the chat for our fallen brother ra doing this till he comes back. Uh,
Yeah, we haven't seen him in a while now
I assume for realsies. He must have fallen to the banhammer or something
What videos of yours do you recommend people watch? Uh teal deer
None of them they're all awful
I suppose an intro could be the uh the stalls when you did about surviving in space and how it's totally possible and easy
for Leia to do right
Yeah
Uh either that or I have a weird session some
Antidepressant drug which was marketed as a female veto drug. I've been talking about that one for about four years now
There you go. That's funny
Or what is it called? Yeah, yeah addy. Yeah that one. Yeah
Oh god, that thing won't go away. It's come back recently
what part
Oh, they did like a
Um, well because you know, obviously they want to make money because um
Uh, who was it?
Valiant took on basically the billion debt to get it
You know now they need to recoup their loss because they're on the federal investigation for price gouging
Um, they started up. Um a new thing called what was it?
Right to desire
They're banging on the feminist bandwagon again
Yeah, that women have a right to have a a sex life have a right to a satisfying sex life
Um
Yeah
Well, yeah, that's the thing it's like no no no one has a right to have sex with other people
No, we call that right. It's not allowed
If you have to get it from somebody else, you don't have a right to it
Yeah, but that that's what they're pushing now because obviously, you know, it's a female sexual health thing
So lots of people are jumping on it. Like yeah, if I ain't fucking
Yeah, it's like yeah, women's have a right to this and so
Yeah, that that's how they're pushing it now they're trying to hide it behind some
Like fancy show company thing, but if you just look under the surface, it's like oh
It's you scum fox trying to price gouge your customers again
Yeah
Stop it. Your drug doesn't work. I have objectively proven. It doesn't work referencing numerous studies. It's terrible. Wow
Yeah, it was
I remember when I first came out in the studies where we're going on. It was like one
out of every is like
Some tiny chance at getting perhaps one better sexual encounter every year or something crazy like that
half to one
So you might have half an extra
Sexual satisfying experience per month that you take. Yeah
What does that even mean? The fair play was great. I don't know
But yeah halfway through that old as of you're like, wait this sucks
I don't know. It just I I feel like like hot like and then the other problems are
Functions like an antidepressant because it is an antidepressant. It's not actually a libido drug
It has horrible interactions with alcohol
Insofar as it makes about half of people who drink when they're on it black out which you know sounds great, doesn't it?
It's like yeah, this this drug it's supposed to make you horny and if you have a single beer
It's going to knock you out. So hey, you can't see how that could go wrong
Hey, they can't have a disappointing sexual experience if they don't know they're having a sexual
It's true. It's true. And um, I wonder what were the other terrible things about it?
Oh, yeah, it makes the contraceptive pill not work
Yeah, which is that's just not only did you not like it but now you're not
Yeah, it's just everything about this everything about that drug is
So i've had a slightly autistic obsession with proving why it's wrong
And the worst bit is there were loads of like international women's rights organizations that got behind it and were like
Oh if the fda doesn't put this through approval
It's because they're sexist and they hate women because you know, there's male
Labido enhancement things that exist even though the male ones are things like viagra
Which is basically just a vasodilator, which is totally fucking different to how this thing works
And yeah, and they actually had to come out and post statements saying
We didn't read the research and didn't know what this drug actually did
We just supported it because it kind of aligned with our vague idea
Which was hilarious to me
So, yeah
You can watch that that one's fun. Thank you
There's also another hilarious
Uh thing you can watch it's more stream focused. It's called a black anality
It is a feminist academic paper which talks about
Black women having anal sex and it features the line
I use the anus as a window
Oh
Because they they they use the anus as a
No, yeah examine cultural stereotypes and and attitudes. It's it is fucking hilarious
I do it with a co-host on the uh
On the stream and we both lose our shit over it for about three hours
It was possibly one of the funniest things i've ever done in my life
Well, see you don't even need to explain it because I just I get it that makes a lot of sense to me that someone
Yeah, that's fair enough. I guess makes sense natural thing that humans would go to at that point. What else is there really?
Yeah, the last frontier the final frontier even
The anus
Yeah, the anus the final frontier
It is the window through which you view the world
Same for all of us really it is a window to the ghetto
as well
Yeah tilde thoughts on the great stink of 1858 and the raising of chicago
Raising of chicago is hilarious
Just just
Oh, they actually lifted a city
Like just actually built everything up like by several feet
Just raised all of the buildings and all the street levels to level everything out
It's just you you look at it and you're just like that's a whole shit ton of effort for not very much
But it happened
Did it wait is that to do with the great stink of 1858?
I'm, not actually sure if the two are really
I I remember the raising of chicago. I'm just picturing like loads of shit smells are on the floor. So they raise all the cities
Just bury it all under the
That'll do it can't get poop through concrete we all know this
Also high ranks hello. Yep. Do you think lucasfilm is gonna ruin indiana jones? Yes. Yes
Yeah
I don't think there's anything to that. Haven't they kind of ruined part of already? I've I've kind of forgotten
um
The what was it kingdom of the crystal skull, right?
That was an adventure
Efap 50 part 2 at 7 hours 21 minutes and 15 seconds at a quarter speed on watch together
I beg you long man. It's tonal's version of the kamehameha watch dragon ball zu absolute massive
Want to join the watch together rags and we'll we'll see what this this business talking about
Yeah, let's give it a little clicky here having to look at our disgusting history
I
Preemptively disavow efap 50 bro this time
Look at our stacked roster
Those were the days
Now we we you know everyone hates us they've abandoned this yep, they're all left
7 21 15
One that's close enough. All right, I gotta go slow knolled
Oh god
Um
My nose coming
Oh my god
You
Oh my goodness
Oh
That fucking gap is glorious between two and billy
The anticipation is incredible
And you could even hear him start the billy is like
It's like oh my god
Oh so good so perfect
We have to explain our memes to people yeah, that's not um go go to the website
You'll understand people who worked very hard on an incredible website that is no business being that good. Yes
Wise crack smoke crack through their ass crack damn or ass cracks
That's fair enough, though. Yeah, let's up my n words. Hello there. Hey, what's up my n word?
Hey rags, what type of bf do you prefer personally? I like some sturdy dom to take care of me
Oh damn, I should not be writing this on top of a roof
Oh my goodness
I think like most people someone who's versatile
Not just in the bedroom, but who's who can be independent who could take care of themselves who doesn't need me, you know
But who can act like they really need me, you know, that sort of thing
Whether that sense, uh, yeah, I can actually go with either honestly just a yeah to be saying like job
like java
Oh, I thought I thought you said something
I thought you said like java. I just you just like casually like yeah, java. Yeah, he's pretty good
Yeah, I said like java you can take care of himself
Java he's he he he eats a lot
In that plus size that's all that is
Uh, we want drunk doggo. Well, he said he wanted to have a nice normally fab, right?
Next time next episode i'll drink. I actually don't even have any
I'll I do actually I have some alcohol. It's too late now to get started though, but I remembered that I have a bunch of
um
bourbon in the uh in the
Yeah, I like uh, there's some wild turkey make some honey stuff that's really good
I'm gonna be like john and i'm gonna be in the honey later
That was like joe. I mean joe. I mean like joe and help i'm joe
That's so funny dude when he said joe in honey
The alcohol is bad. Okay drugs are also bad. Okay, that is south park. Okay
Um, this episode of efap is sponsored by skillshare shadow legends skillshare
Uh
Disney removed songs and mushu their excuse was for historical accuracy
And yet is full of inaccuracies along with a witch. We know the real reason why
Because it's too magical for party values. Yeah, whatever like
I hope that
Movie does terribly. That's that's that's where i'm at. I kind of do too kind of more than any of them
Probably because i'm at this point becoming legitimately bigoted towards china and I hate them
I mean, it's not going to take long for a lot of people to feel certain adabosti considering the coronavirus. It's like
Who did this who fucked up? It's like, uh
I mean china, you know health standards. I mean, I don't want to say that there's no hurry on curing coronavirus
But you should you should um forest wittaker for mulan's dad save the dream
I wish he saved the dream
Happy birthday at mark the cyborg part. Happy birthday. If uh, if it is yeah, good job living that year, man
Greetings to the long man from florida man
Hi rags
Hello
Opinions on 10 millimeter auto for pig hunting and or on the high point
1095 as a hunting rifle
Uh, i'm not familiar with that rifle and I don't have any guns in 10 millimeter
But if you're hunting hogs with them, I would go bigger than a 10 millimeter
I mean like arthur you might want to actually check the laws in your state because a lot of game has a minimum caliber limit
So make sure you're not breaking the law you're thinking about using that i'm not sure what it might be but double check
I wouldn't use something like that. I would use like a rifle round for killing hogs, man
You'd use a thousand millimeter rounds when you I would use a 30 caliber enough
I don't know thousand
By like 1.2 billion
1.2 billion millimeters 1.2 billion caliber
It's just a planet
Just drop a moon on him it's like is this okay to hud pig
Like yes, he's like sir. It's pulling me towards it. It has crap
Uh
Why are sjw's mad about disney removing slash changing mulan's love interest because of hashtag me too
Isn't this what they would want? I could understand disney's concern, but sjw seem to think it's scapegoating
I think a lot of you need to understand that a social justice warrior doesn't have what we might refer to as a
consistent worldview consistent principle
Yeah, it gets very confusing please well hence that clip i was talking about
Shit happens, but they're never going to be happy. It's nothing minefields
They'll never be satisfied like double standards and hypocrisy is the mainstay of their
It's about the fight not winning
Yeah, there's yeah, well it's the whole outrage culture thing right it's just like find someone else to be angry at go
This is why so many of them are actually addicted to being angry at things
Gokunaru will be coming on when so he was the planned guest to do the van helsing thing with uh
There's no reason why we can't set that up sooner rather than later. I think efap is relatively freed up right now. Um
But there we've already got next week's episode set. So yeah, you know, we'll work with something
We got we got we got some plans down the old pipeline
Lots of different guests, but we will try and get him on
Um, hey rags want to share your opinion of avatar?
It's shit from what i've seen you mean the james cameron movie?
Oh that too
Listen y'all need to wake up
Listen I know you're gonna hate me but man we can fucking bust out some references here
We
Might want to have to devote an entire efap to it if we ever get around to it
But man from what i've seen of some of this show, I have no idea why people think it's so amazing
I've heard it's so great. And from what i've seen it is just awful rags. Look at that chat. Look what you've done
All right, that's fine
It can be like that. ER is actually a
That's fine. It doesn't change the stuff that i've seen
Ah
The actual retardation that i've seen in these episodes and clips like I don't know how y'all do it
I mean, I guess i'm glad that you guys like it. But man, I don't think i've ever
You know, we got sequel level writing here and people get a pass
That star wars girl
I think we should just bring our own and we should just watch the tard fight that happens. Oh my god
That is very upset rags. Look what you've done. That's all right
They can be they can be upset because they are giving it a special pass
Oh my goodness
I'm i'm being consistent with my standards. It doesn't get a special pass
Execute order 66
Doesn't get a special pass because it's anime and because you watched it when you were 12 and you were impressed. Sorry
So it's good you're a sequel level writing they are not happy
Okay there yeah, it's about yeah
I
Maybe I missed all the really maybe there's some really amazing stuff. I haven't seen yet
I'm sure that's the case. But from what i've seen i'm like damn y'all like I don't get how this
I don't understand how this show gets a pass from you people
You're gonna have to be more consistent with your standards guys
I'm saying this with a smile on my face because your tears they are like a delicious
I love how you summoned y'all from the ether. He just like appears. That's right
That's fine
Uh
Thoughts on the browning hp rags
The browning hp. Um, I do not have one
I've heard it's really good though. That's from creamy sheave. He says he's got one and he loves it
Oh my goodness. Yeah, i've heard really good stuff about him
I heard it's way better than avatar
The browning hp superior to avatar
Oh apparently did you say that avatar's an anime?
Yeah, wait didn't er actually defend that uh avatar is an anime?
Um, if I remember
Well, if it's not an anime tell me what it is
Well the the idea being that it's an american written show, but it is animated in japan, right?
I can't I can't like you chat you're gonna have to teach me about american written. Oh, yeah. Well, yeah
Um, but who cares if it is counted as an anime? I don't care words. I don't I don't care who wrote it
It's terrible. Oh god
Uh, y'all need to have some more consistent and better standards
Mola, are you interested in jurassic world dominion? Yes
I will just like jurassic world fallen kingdom watch all of the jurassic
franchise before going to see dominion
And then probably make a video because jurassic park is a fantastic film and it keeps getting shat on just like terminator alien and predator
at a portion of every year and I seriously doubt
The dominion is going to be great. But uh
I'll give it a chance. Do you think that there's going to be a good you think there's going to be good
dinosaur movie
Hey, man
Dinosaurs are cool
Yeah, they were the first one
Now they're lame and weird
I don't put feathers on them
Um a good video to tear apart cinematic venoms got a really bad lord of the rings video
Uh, I feel like someone's mentioned that before I will put that in notes never look see
Yeah, apparently someone doesn't like lord of the rings that's upsetting to hear
Well, he does really wow. All right. Yeah, we could uh, we could
Go for that. Fuck it
Also, mary mayhem still wants to get pregnant off mola's voice
I that's just not how pregnancy works
Maybe one day when innovations in science take place. I don't know
I don't know
Uh, what do you think of novels fixing tros?
Um, I mean I appreciate the effort
Just like well you tried, you know
Yeah, basically is like well I can I can appreciate that you tried. It's actually kind of
sad
Like I feel bad for those people I guess
Because you shouldn't be in a position where you have to your job as a writer is to fix someone else's mess constantly
Like that's it for you. It's like that's fun
So, you know
Sorry people who have to do that. But hey, I guess um
You know you get paid for it that's yeah
And it could be worse right like you could just not have a right job at all
You could probably you could I would I would take the opportunity to throw some jabs at the sequel trilogy myself
Have characters be like wait, that makes no sense. And then the scene just ends
That would be amusing to me, um
To understand how star wars the rise of skywalker is a good movie
We must first understand the secret behind mario's jump. It's just that simple
It's just only
Only we can find out
Apparently ches in episode nine was a clone
ches
Ches who's ches i'm trying to think of if that's some abbreviation for palpatine or it's like ches
chesi chesi cream creamy ches
She
Ches she I don't know
Chief
I'm a sneakerhead. I buy shoes online people do a good job about documenting how each shoe fits on the typical standard of sizes
Never had a problem figuring it out. There you go ranks
Hmm. I just I always figured the way that they're made like on the inside
Yeah, because it's not an issue of like getting it to fit
It's also like how the sides touch your feet and how the soles feel and stuff like that
I just feel like that's not something you'd want to risk, you know, I because shoes are very important
That star wars girl said she was like, yeah, no, I know it is spelt chev
Or ches
Maybe that's what he said when they asked him what his name was when he was
Sucking the life out of padme. He was like i'm ches
Had two children she even chev
Uh
Iron man should have died the moment a tank shall hit him on the face
I'm, sorry, but armor doesn't make people immune to momentum and blunt force trauma
Yeah, I don't like that. I don't like that. They did that in the movie. I think they should have
Done differently to have that scene. It kind of fucks with his um
Abilities
F word here you teal deer dominos is great
What oh, I guess he's did you say something against dominos at some point?
Uh, no, it was um, it was in the video. They said also dom even dominos get a code
Yeah, but this person's saying like fuck you teal deer dominos is great. I'm guessing he said something disparaging toward dominos
Do you not like dominos?
No, I don't I think it's nasty garbage, but I didn't disparage them in the video. I would never disparage dominos
I mean, I just didn't think to comment on their terrible pizza
Dominos give me a sponsor efap. Give us free pizza. There you go
Okay
Be mad over something. I didn't say that's fine. It's all right. Maybe it was something else. I don't know
Maybe you said that they were okay instead of saying they're incredible
It might have been where I doubt filthy plebs who eat dominos
No, that's what the person in the video is basically saying where they're like even domino. All right, dude, dude, dude
No
Like just because people eat dominos and have a questionable taste in pizza
Just just leave them to it. It's fine. Like I get it if you're about to like starve to death and you have to eat dominos
You know, I I understand it's it's not it's not like it's not worse than death
You know what I could agree with that actually I don't think it's worse than death either
I guess depending on you, you know, some people
Might consider eating a pizza while they're on their death bed to be worse than just dying like if they're in a really horrible position
so
There's interesting nuance there interesting nuance. Yes
Yeah, I guess so
I mean
I don't know that you dominos than die
I'd rather I'd I'd rather watch the last airbender than die
That's showing good at all
What a chat said if I can't trust when rag says anything is good from now on I have no idea what his standards are
Yes, you you do know what my standards are. You just need to be honest with yourself my son
Uh anyone think this guy's facial movement is weird. It's like his face is split in half upper half totally dishonest and mouth moving
To what?
He's trying to sell way too over exaggerated. Don't judge me, please
Um, he probably didn't write any of this. No. Yeah, he probably didn't
Uh new law of joe in honey nice well, they did it to us, okay
Um, how close is ruby rose's batwoman to overtaking brie larson's captain marvel for the title of plank
Um
It's interesting actually because yeah her acting is getting seemingly worse
Stiff and wooden. Yeah, I could see the blank getting applied to her. I really can
But she's so much more evil than captain marvel
She is kind of like it's actually complicated because captain marvel killed a lot of people too that you could definitely call innocent without showing
any kind of guilt or remorse, but then
batwoman is completely unaware of how
Her actions lead to people's deaths and that's bad almost as if she does know and she doesn't care
Yeah marvel she's captain marvel clearly like goes out and kills people
Like knowingly but batwoman kills people so regularly through her incompetence
There is an aspect of like is she actually so stupid. She can't fathom her own responsibility in this matter
Because captain marvel does it and she's like having fun. Yeah
She's smiling and laughing and she's having a great old time
Uh
Also, hi ragels hello i'd like to touch him in places
Oh my goodness
You are welcome
I think this is the earliest i've ever caught one of your live streams mauler. Anyway, what do you guys think of jedi fallen order?
I've not played enough of it to have a decent perspective, but it's yeah, it's fine. It's probably what I would say
so far
Um, what are the general perspectives on it? It ranges from like, okay to pretty good, right?
Most people are pretty happy with it. Yeah, some people think it's really good. They're like calm down
I've been playing it a lot recently and absolutely love it. It's probably the best star wars thing post disney also maren's hot
It was maren
I guess it's a character in uh
The star wars game. He's talking about fallen order fair enough. Um
Well, i'm glad you're having fun with it. Good stuff. Yeah, I'm glad you are enjoying your game
uh mauler in your hello ladies and gentlemen voice, please say
Hello mary mayhem, you're a beautiful work of art
Adam
There you go
Pretty please also hi rags. Hello rags is sexual relations better with hemorrhoids
I'm, sorry what
Rags is sexual relations. They should be they should be saying human intercourse, but is sexual relations better with hemorrhoids
Well, I don't I don't know what human intercourse is. I don't I can't I don't have human intercourse. Um
But is it better with hemorrhoids? I what a terrible question to ask
There we go. That's what I was expecting. He's like what an awful thing you say. How dare you ask such a horrible question
Uh better received the prequels gave us expansive wheel building amazing characters good stories
Merchandise spin-off sequels gave us a white man burning a black man with a lit cross. What the fuck disney
Listen some things are universal. No lie. Oh imitates life. What do we do?
Uh, no seriously night sister maryns is super hot stay massive you hacks man. I believe it
Yeah, I'm okay. I'm gonna agree with that statement just from the person saying they're just so passionate about it has to be true
Um
You guys should drag arch into a stream with teal deer so they can talk 40k
But what do we do yeah, I guess we'll just listen I mean, you know, they can do that in their own private calls
Yeah, that requires me to like talk to people though and i'm just talking to people hard
Agreed, um also hi wags
Hello
I'd rather have sweet sweet unprotected hornet's nest intercourse than even think about the sequels being better than the prequels
Yeah, that is a that is a tall order my dude
I think the greatest strategy tragedy of batwoman is the strategy of dark play just the plague is the lies
Uh is that there are so many ways they could have made kate's arc interesting
I mean sure batwoman could work. Yeah, there's all kinds of cool stuff. They could have done with her
And there's there's all sorts of cool stuff. They could have done with the characters around her to help influence teach your lessons in some way
But they do not give a fuck
I would love to see a series about a hero
Who's incompetent and who doesn't care about saving people the issue is that the show never acknowledges that she's terrible
What are your thoughts on this?
That hero a hero who's incompetent and doesn't care about saving people. Uh, the boys that show has got a lot of characters
Well, I think he means like that the show is aware of oh the show's aware
Um
Yeah, no check out the boys if you haven't I feel like that might that might uh scratch that itch
And yeah, I I who why not right experiment with all kinds of um
Ideas, like what about a hero who is super strong?
But in a wheelchair, what about yeah, what about a super strong person, but their legs don't work
I wonder how that
translates what uh
maybe they
They go out at night and
Can still help I think that's gonna be way too awkward. Is that how do you portray that you need an ironman suit?
That'll sort it out
Or maybe it's a show where he's convinced that being disabled isn't actually being disabled
Like those people who are deaf but who don't want to be cured of their deafness because they're fucking retarded
I read somewhere that a girl had her eyes tattooed and she's gone blind as a result
So
Well, you're filling up your eyes with ink I need I read that and I was like
But just get contacts they make contacts that are like different patterns and designs I guess she just wanted
They just didn't want to see anymore
No, they did. It's the whites they do. It's not the the iris and the pupil they tattoo the white
No
It's fucking retarded but attention whore is gonna attention whore
Then they do stupid shit and you get told she's getting a lot of attention walking around banging that sticks
It's a blind person
It's all the blind people in the audience. I don't think that's actually why would you tattoo your eyes though?
If you're blind in the chat because you tattooed your eyes though, then
I don't know. I don't know what's going on here
Um
A new hope earned more than empire and return of the jedi made less
Oh
I guess they're trying to say
But how much yeah, it would be it would be interesting to know how much because we're like we're talking a like a billion dollar difference
Where the force awakens made two billion
for so, uh
rise the skywalker man
So it is a huge drop
And nowadays that now that it's built off of you know
The cultural juggernaut that star wars actually is and still losing that kind of money
That's kind of insane your eggs. You deserve to go blind if you tattoo your eyes
No, you don't deserve to go blind if you tattoo your eyes
Just kind of an idiot. That's all you're just a fucking moron
You don't deserve to go blind
Uh, any plans to ever have the birdman on his banter with jay would be legendary also bonjour la rag
Ah bonjour which birdman are we talking about?
I I think it's one of the he's like someone who responds to cinema sins as well. Um
Birdman could be a possibility. We'll bring him and jay on and we'll cover
cinema cinema sins
I think we can't cover cinema wins with jay or the birdman because they're on good terms that that community
um, oh well
They don't want to fuck up those terms because if you criticize a friend that means you're not friends
That's fine. We'll uh, we'll just we'll we'll we'll bring on different people for cinema wins
I know plenty of people who hate it when people say nice things about movies because we're all toxic, right?
Yep, yeah
Uh, I hate people
Oh almost forgot prequels also gave us the hf droid. Oh the hail fire droid
The rags doesn't like it. Okay. I just think it seems like a silly design to me
I think it is probably a very silly design from someone who can tell me exactly why I just I just did. It's kind of cool
fires, yeah, it's kind of nifty, you know, it's like it's nifty it's cool, but
See that's you can't even say that about the stupid bombers in tlj. They're not even cool looking. They're just kind of meh
Like, okay
Just put a big snake on it. I don't know
And they can't even say yeah, they look kind of meh, but it's all utility
You know, they are purpose-built machines
Oh, you can't even say that there's nothing you can say it just cynically and
And does you know at every aspect?
engineeringly
Uh, is this going anywhere? No drinker. It isn't
Oh, that's a
Nice chunk of
flashback from that particular video
Finally finished the soul sucking slog that is uni have some darsh on me as thanks for helping me
Keep somewhat sane these past months. Also. Hi rags
Hello
Glad you like very much
Rags mauler and drinker. I love you guys. Sorry. I don't know teal deer. Uh
I've only been efapping for a month and wanted to know where I can find the april fools videos much love
Uh, they're on my channel. They're a gedelb
Just to type that easy to say acronym in
stands for game developers essentials lessons book a very important series
Teaches you all about gaming designs and essentials and mechanicals
Um, hi ags
Hi
They jake skywalk at him is now a thing. They holdo maneuvered could become a thing as well
Oh, yeah, who knows how it'll all go eventually with this sort of stuff
You'll be referenced forever
How not to do it
Um, I just saved three dollars on my super chat with honey. Oh my gosh. Wow, that's incredible
Everyone should get honey and send to a super chat
Is that how that works it's like you buy honey you get free money like but wait you get it for free, honey get free money
That's your that's your catchphrase. It's your tagline
You buy it and they give you free money. You're like, wait, how much do you buy it for? They're like, that's not important
I'll just put it how much do you want?
Every single time we need to look to me high cheeks sent me high. We need to look at hygel
We must mention begidious. How many chromosomes these soy comers have? Oh my god
Um, yeah, you're you they they always reference somebody um
And it's usually briefly too
The the the one that will never be
What the fuck are you okay
Yeah, that was um, a wooden bracket falling off a wall behind me and smacking me in the back of the head
Damn. Oh my god. Are you okay? Are you wouldn't be surprised if I actually have a bleeding out the back of my skull
No, we're done. Oh my goodness. That was terrifying. Go in uh
Take care of that call somebody if you need to
No, that was just exceptionally painful
Fortunately, that makes it worse. That's not a good thing
It's it's just it's just a few kilos of wood smacking me in the base of the skull. It's fine
Put a band-aid on it or something
Or wear a helmet whenever you're at you need a drink. You just sit down
You probably are sitting down
Ow
Seriously, you could if you need to go do anything go for it like oof
That's not a painful
I I think i'm all right all things considered. Yeah, like an ice pack or something. I don't know
Or a doctor or doctor that could do it. Yeah that that could be a useful one
Oh no
All right, what if started hearing fall asleep on efap when I started hearing the noises I thought it was in my room that something was
Oh no, and i've knocked my headphones out. Oh, that's everything's going. That's the worst part of it all. That's not good
Can I hear the things again, I believe you can
Excellent. That is wonderful
Yeah
It's more depressing because it knocked one of my guitars out
Maybe it was like fine an efap fan trying to kill rags for his evil avatar opinion and then they accidentally hit you
Oh, that that is a possibility they they got the wrong target
Is fine as long as you're alive that's the important part for the most part I think don't worry about it
The disnoids are attacking
The disnoids hurt you
Um, well, so what fell off the shelf is it like
I'm assuming stuff
No, it was um
It's a wall bracket, which I installed
Um to hold some guitars on the wall
Some guitars
Yeah, and that just decided to come down the guitars. Okay as well
Uh, yeah, I think so
That one's fine
Now all of his memories of efap are going to be destroyed painful memories and head wounds
Yeah
It's this is fine. It's just a few thousand pounds worth of gear falling on another few thousand pounds worth. This is fine
There's there's no part of me that's panicking horribly
Nope
I guess that anything you need to do you do it. Okay that I guess
It could be worse
Um
Why is the ot the poop end of the horse
It was a well written well drawn picture. It doesn't matter. It's the poop end
Okay, but I I think it's so that they can get that retarded face on the horse at the end
They don't want to draw a retarded ass, you know
It makes sense
retarded ass
Sounds like he wants to say disney is the horror the homer of today. Stop the world. I want off
He kind of did. Uh
That was kind of the argument
Hmm hi rags. Hello explain to maula your dog harness
Yes
My dog harness and how it's not snm
But made in a leather shop and have maula replaced dev during childbirth because gas mask maula
all right, so
Uh, we're playing uh a game. We're playing a an rp
game
Vampire the masquerade. We are nazi vampires. It's
1941
All right
and
I can transform into a wolf
But the rules are there there are there are particular rules for whenever you transform the stuff that you can take with you during the
transformation and appear, you know reappears
and
So in order to follow those rules better
I had
Someone make a custom harness. It's basically load bearing gear that I can wear as a human
So that when I transform into a wolfie, right? It will still hold all of the equipment that I might need
grenades and landmines and
submachine gun and some magazines
Um, it is not snm gear. It is nothing to do with any fetishes
There's not a sexual component in it in any way other than me. Of course
It is just purely utility based
And I use it to kill communists. There's nothing unreasonable about this. In fact about this. In fact, it's very it's the opposite of unreasonable
It's reasonable
It's a very straightforward thing to do that makes sense in every imaginable way. I mean i'm convinced
Yeah
What was the second part?
Oh, that was pretty much it
Was there the part about uh dev?
Oh, well having me replace him during childbirth. Oh, yeah dev is pregnant. He got uh,
He went out. He thought he would just uh get himself a piece of uh, nazi booty
Yeah, so now his character is pregnant. That's what happens. You see
And he's gonna have some sort of weird vampire baby. I think in the official vampires can't get pregnant
But I don't I don't think I I guess we're not following those uh, those rules
Arconian rules that prevent happiness from reaching the people
Yeah, it is kind of it is kind of uh oppressive
Um god damn tilde hit puberty his voice is deep now
No, I think that might be the um
Bog which I was telling you about like how it makes my uh,
Like how discord fucks my audio sometimes
Yeah, I think I saw a couple people interesting you sound deeper
Yeah, that'll it's I think it's some sort of sampling error
The uh mic software which i'm running and discord like I think they
Uh pick them at different sample rates. So I think
Discord sample rate is like half
What my microphone is actually picking up so it pitches it down a load for like no reason at all. Hmm
It's a weird bug but not entirely on
I had no idea. I just kind of noticed you're a little different
I didn't want to say anything. I wanted somebody else to say it so that then I could comment on it
So that you didn't feel awkward about and i'm just gonna be like well, I was like wow all of you are so mean
I just you know
I figure I was I was walking on thin ice with uh, what was my avatar commentary?
Which is correct, by the way
And here come another set of colors from chat colors don't run
Uh, you need to member the member berries it's surprising how member berries have made it into like
Cultural conversation even though. Um, where are they from? They're from south park. I didn't realize that many people watched south park
but cool
Uh maula
Our efap mini how it should have ended rise of skywalker when
Why do people want us to see that so much? Like I said, it's the um, it wouldn't be much of a reaction
because they do a lot of jokes that uh
um that we've kind of played with in the different streams and
You know, it's just it's kind of a standard ishi video
Maybe I missed something
Eat your slop and be grateful you get to look at women stop complaining stop asking questions and eat the member berry slop
nice
Uh noted if I get eber no, wait if I
Is that I guess that's supposed to be either if I
Ever get called out for plagiarism. I can just call it resonance lawsuit avoidance. Yeah, absolutely
It is a literary term
Exist it's real. It's a thing. It's a strategy
Get it resonance
Like like food like soy
Wow, like yo soy lily it went over your head yo soy bajo
Uh teal deer fix your mic we know you're no lennard cohen
What I guess there's no person saying you're too deep well, uh, probably it yeah, like I said sampling error there's nothing
It it's just discord being shit because they don't let you pick the
Uh rate for your microphone. I know because i've looked in the audio settings
That's where they would probably be. Yeah
Well, it's either that or it's buried under some fucking retarded
Menu where it has no right to be
It's like it might be maybe it just has maybe you just uh have to do it in windows or
Possibly sometimes it also happens when it's
Like you pick different audio outputs
like like if you've got the global setting that's like to the external sound card and
A program setting is going to the speakers. Sometimes that can do it as well
Uh, it's like pottery it rhymes stop fucking complaining. Yeah pretty much
Um, this is super saiyan levels of mental gymnastics
The the arthurian legends compared to star wars video. Yes, it's some some
Oh, no, not the themes not the themes. Ah, they're in my films my films. Ah
Excellent reference. That was from john ellis bushbush again
Oh
Uh fyi the invisible man is bad. It's a quiet place all over again
People like it because it looks good and had an interesting premise, but it's bad
Hi rags
Hello
Yeah, I guess I think a lot of people will forgive
A lot of failings of a film if it has an interesting premise
This may seem like a silly question, but how do you redraft what does the process of redrafting entail?
So if i've got a script and then I start reading through it
Um, maybe i've got some notes about things. I kind of want to add at certain points
Or i'm simply looking at how i'm presenting arguments how i'm supporting them even this the the
grammar and punctuation of everything right like
How are you going to deliver certain lines? You could even like try and speak it as you're redrafting looking through it
Be like does this work?
and um
I don't know i'm always surprised by the amount of things I usually change on even
A second redraft i'll be like yeah, you know, actually I kind of want it to be this way or wow
I've completely fucked up that you know the structure of that sentence or paragraph or whatever and I need to sort that out
or the
Really important one where you're like
damn i've got this here this I think I say it in my new video, but um
When you complete the end portion of your script and go back to the beginning you might be like, oh
This doesn't quite fit as well. I need to move this around or I need to
Refocus redraft and finally just additional information putting it in
um
That's essentially what it entails and with videos if you were to have a version
You watch through it and spot anything you think of maybe like visual or audio mistakes or things you want to change
Just give it a give it a rewatch and then you might end up redrafting it depending on what you
Sort of see lots of different things you can do
Um, but if you know if you're particularly good at all this stuff, you might not need to who knows
It's just uh, I just recommend redrafting um because it can help iron out mistakes. That's all
Oh, and if you're a fucking multimillionaire
Writer for like the biggest franchise in history, maybe do a redraft of your script
Maybe just saying
Could be useful
Could end up avoiding some heavy ass mistakes
Um, it's not a photocopy it's a ditto I get it because it's like the original trilogy but with that awkward ditto smile
And we're just like I don't trust that shit that is not the ot
Oh, no, i'm an hour and a half late just missed the intro at least i've got another 10 and a half hours to stay for
Uh, maybe I don't actually know how far along we are now
We have hit the seven hour mark
Seven hours seven whole years
Um efap on my sister's 24th birthday catch y'alls later
Fair enough
Hey, there you go. Hope she has a good birthday
Hey
Sponge knob square nuts watch it. I dare you
the sponge knob square nuts, I'd
I guess i'd rather yeah, if my dick was like square shaped that would be odd sponge knob
sponge knob square
Oh, no
At this point it wouldn't even have to be a sponge. You could be really anything just with a spongy knob
It could oh my gosh, it could be a door though and it it could have a knob that's not sexual
I don't know about the square nuts
This is like a condition, I don't know
Uh, this is just false equivalency brought to us by not so wisecrack
Pretty much
Uh, are we still talking about star wars? My jab is tired
Well, that was actually the problem with the video. It took a while to actually link it back to star wars. It was mostly just
trying to argue about
adaptation
versus
sequel versus
Well under the the umbrella of how copyright works
Lots of lots of things to talk about that weren't star wars and that one was weird
Mouse lee have you seen?
Blue shades video how video essays are deceiving you thoughts or potential future efap. Hi wags
Hello
Um, I feel like I might have seen that before i'm not sure but I will
make a note
Um
I recognize that avatar. I think I did see that at some point
I just joined the stream and my brain has already become a warped dilapidated
Mosh pit of despair for the continuation of the human race, but not the same as cinema
Blobber tose maximus
Blobber tose maximus. Hi maula. Hello drinker teal deer
Also, wait oh and hyrax there you go, hello hello
Uh, you want to know what this comparison would actually apply to the expanded universe
It's probably more applicable. Yeah, I don't really know i'd have to know more about how it was written what the
The relation of it was to the ip holder, I guess
Uh, my favorite part of ruby rose's performance in john wick 2 was how she had zero spoken lines
damn
No wonder she was more pleasing because you didn't have to listen to her go stop that don't do that. No
She's um a very versatile actress actress
Yeah, i'll stick with actress
Just wanted to thank you all for these streams been marathoning whilst i've been ill the past two weeks
Can't say i've been lucid enough to follow all of the arguments, but I appreciate the entertainment nonetheless
Well, i'm glad you're enjoying it and uh, I hope you get better. Hope it's not corona
Yeah
Illness meme
Um
Nearly two hours in I have no idea how
trateen did toa
Or and sit on this
Mallory have anything to do with tros
It they explained why tros is good
How did you not see it?
Also once more we're feeling is the best buffy episode ever
And that other one is good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah both of them are top tier
One of the best tv in the world
I look forward to rags seeing it one day. It's gonna be great. I swear
Give it a few years rags. We'll get there
Yeah, you're gonna have to get through season one
King arthur versus the disnoids
I mean i'd watch it you could make it an adaptation, right?
versus the disnoids
Um
Can you fellas can you fellas wish me a happy early birthday? Thank you
Yeah, have a happy birthday an early birthday. It's from mike tester. So yes, happy early birthday mike tester. Have a good one
Uh, what was the dumbest thing you guys did as a kid?
Hmm dumbest thing I did as a kid
I'm immediately going to like how i've hurt myself. Oh
Yeah, I uh
This is kind of hard to
If I could draw it, it would be easier
but I was
Um try and think of like a a banister like a walkway
But I kind of want to draw it. I think it'll be easier. Let me get paint up a second
Hmm
Dumbest thing that I did as a kid
Um
Geez, um
I probably did a lot of I I don't know anything specific, but I probably did a lot of
Climbing around on shit. I really shouldn't have been climbing on
uh, I was uh, I was quite the little monkey I was always getting up here and getting up there and
trying to climb up high on things be they trees or
equipment and
Even buildings if I could I I just I was a big climber and a lot of it wasn't safe to do
And if I was a parent watching my kid do that, I would have freaked the fuck out
But you're a kid you don't think about that sort of thing. So luckily it all turned out. Okay
So this is terrible. Um, I'm just gonna try and do this quickly
But oh, yeah, you have to pull up the stream if you want to see what i'm trying to draw here. So
Think of this as a walkway, right?
These these these little feet prints this way you're walking
This this is the thing you hold on to the rail if you will
and
all of this was concrete like base
so I
like a good little human was hanging off of this
and uh, I guess I was kind of like
Like like rocking back and forth on it, but I my back went too low
And uh, my t-shirt was like, you know going up and down as as as gravity would pull
and I scraped all of my back across the concrete so fast that like it was like I tore about
I want to say like
Enough to make all of it bleed but not too much that it couldn't heal well
And like I didn't even feel pain. Uh, my sister was was messing around at the same time
And she like I stood up and I was like that felt weird and then she was she like looked at it
She was like, oh my fucking god. I was like what just like you
Gotta tell parents because you've just done a thing. I was like, oh
So, uh, that's probably the dumbest thing I ever did. Um in terms of physical harm, I think I can't there's probably other stuff
I just can't remember
Because i'm drawing to myself
Um, I mean there was the two thing that i've talked about earlier. I have a fake tooth
One of my teeth is i'm a cyborg going on teeth is fake
Uh, but I I remember once
I was uh, I was actually in boy scouts. I was a very young scout at the time
And I we were at a river
Uh spring river actually and I was throwing rocks
Right and then for some weird fucking reason I have no idea what possessed me
I threw I just like changed directions and threw rock a rock down the river where a bunch of us were
I have no idea why
and
I just threw this rock
And then it hit one of my buddies in the back of the head up on the top of his head kind of near the back
and he was like, uh
And it and he he's like, oh something's like something hit me
right and um
It actually made his head bleed kind of like teal deer
Uh, his head was the back back of his head was bleeding because I hit him in the back of the head with this drone rock
I hold you responsible for this, right?
so
Yeah, uh, he was fine
He actually he actually because we took him back to the camp to get first aid
And he was like, you know, it doesn't actually hurt that much and then he looked at his hand and saw there was blood on it
And then he instantly yelled. He was like
You know when he saw blood and there wasn't even that much he just really freaked out about it
So, uh tlda is now it's your choice your thing what it was the stupidest thing you've done oh fuck knows, um
Yeah, I actually have no particular idea. I didn't do a whole bunch of stupid stuff when I was a kid
Um, I waited till I was a grown up to do that
So, what did you do
Drink excessive. Well, I think stupidest thing that I did as a kid was growing. Oh, I get it. Ooh
Um
Yeah, i'm done with my incredible drawing now
I think it illustrates the drama of the situation
Who's that on the right?
What do you mean I thought it was all self-explanatory
Get the gun
It's my sister. Obviously
Oh, of course. I guess I should spell that out killed. She shot you in the back, but you made it bleed sister
Get an arrow there and then I will put the
This is I don't see what there's there's nothing left to interpret at this point
Also, it was uh, the entire scenario was uh, it was above this is all around a bed of lava
Glad we've really sorted that out
This is important that I got all that out it's
God turned up he saved the day as he does often
I don't know about you, but I
Whenever I got a bad report card as a kid. I would try to hide it from my parents. I'd like
It which is dumb. You can't like they'll they'll obviously know what your grades are. I just thought that as a stupid kid
I had some level of control
Like if they didn't see the actual report card like they they wouldn't know it it would be a secret forever or some shit
Um
They'd always find out I just delay it by a day or so
Uh, what about the longoid attack on the disnoids? It's a system we can't we can't afford to lose good rapping
Now let's jump forward to medieval europe brought to you by raid shadow legends
Uh, who should replace wolf in memes from now on
It wouldn't it wouldn't be a replacement. It wouldn't be a replacement. It just wouldn't be him
Um
Glad to see you all ripping into this terrible video and with teal deer of all people
Uh, unfortunately, I can't stay too long because i'm visiting family in florida
But i'll catch the rest on the upload when I get back home. All right, good stuff
Somewhere down under shad is blowing a fuse over the term knights in smelly armor
Yeah, I could picture. He was he wouldn't appreciate such such commentary
Um
I think I caught up to the ones where I was reading ahead
There we go saw that wisecrack video right after it came out and commented in before
Uh efap covers this awful ship. Call me a prophet also nihau ragu
Hello
Didn't I figured you'd say nihau back but you know, all right me how how is your knee
How is my knee yeah I was asking how your knee is
Which one?
Well, I I figured you would you were able to choose that I guess I have two knees and two elbows still
It's because I am a dog. So
um both both of my knees
Both the left knee
And the right knee are in tip-top shape. They're excellent
Yes, they feel good
Uh do you also do you enjoy the clone wars tv series?
I have yet to consume a significant portion. I saw all of season one
I meant to continue it and I kind of gave up. Um, I will try
And redo it at some point just so much things to consume
Boom
Padme from avenger the sith is how I vocalize my feelings after tlj. You're breaking my heart. You're going down a path
I can't follow stop. Stop now. Come back. I love you. It hurt, man
Well hate me
Yeah, I mean, you know, I wonder what the re uh, what character would sort of sum up your feelings toward riser skywalker then
Jabba maybe just about everything. I'm just like
Just
Metro exodus unbridled praise when
Um
Have to get it from somebody who's actually played it. I suppose
Oh, I still gotta play it. Let me uh, check. I think it's on steam now
You know metro
Exodus 40 bucks
Yeah, I need to uh play some of that shit right there
But on my it's on my wish list
Um reactor exploded pump more water into my core. Oh, that's a chernobyl reference, right?
Uh core me daddy here
Rice cousin kiss sunny. Hi rags
Hello
Here's a little something because I love you guys. Thanks for keeping me company on my train ride. Hello teal deer long man and
drinky also high regs
Hey, hello. Hello
Mola, please make a review of the prequels
I'm tired of hearing it's bad because it's bad and I want someone to tell me what is actually wrong with them
Uh, I do intend to get around to them one decade, but probably not this one
I don't even know if that's actually true at this point
No, it probably will be this decade. I will I will say that with confidence. It'll be this decade
I got 10 years I can do it
Uh shields don't work in atmosphere
Sure gungans just imagined them in episode one also all dried because imagined they had shields jj is dumber than jar jar
That's really bizarre when you have all of these very clear examples
In shields and what they were thinking with the atmosphere like who do you think is going to believe that?
Which is worse shields don't work in atmosphere
Which is worse realistically, sorry you what were the two choices?
Don't know which way is up or no shields in atmosphere. We don't know which way is up. Absolutely. Yeah, okay
Yeah, at least I was just wondering is there a competition here?
You could kind of fix that one. So you'd have to say the
I I hate this like the electricity in the air of exegol the constant lightning strikes are disabled
Shield some frequency some bullshit. Yeah, but with the up one it's like oh, you know
I don't know
How will I look down at the planet and I don't
There's so much fog everywhere that was that's that's how you could possibly fix it
But like that's clearly not true from the film. You just have to put fog extreme fog everywhere for some reason
The ships can't tell what I fucking hate that like I would hate that to be my job. It would be so painful
Um
Hello ragolds
Hello
Why do you complain about them not knowing which way is up? This just happens to be a story where they don't know
Which way is up?
Just just so happy. Well, here's the thing the fact that they are
standing
on the ground
Kind of I just I don't buy it
Like if you don't know which way is up you're just you can't function you can't know which way is down if you don't know
Which way is up, right?
Yeah, because if you know one, you know the other it's
The other way therefore if they don't know which way is down
They're like up is the way that we're not standing. It's just it's so stupid. I can't rationalize it. There's no way
Is it's made I think even worse by the fact that all the stars
from like plane above the ground, it's literally just
look out the windows
and and and go up
like
what
How did jj write that and don't not think man this is retarded
It plus isn't it weird that all of the star destroyers are
On the same level like in terms they're all facing and oriented the same direction
like none of them were accidentally flipped over or upside down or
The wrong way tilted they're they're all where they need to be. So how do they not know which way up is?
They're all oriented directly
Yeah, that's what makes it even worse
Actually, we can we can bring this back to starch
Did did anyone else when they were watching it think it was always weird the ships always came at each other like the same way up
Um, they never encountered each other upside down or anything like that
I guess there must be some sort of standard way of charting the stars or something
But it just always seemed I always pictured that they just did it for the satisfaction of the audience, right?
Yeah, um, I would imagine that
In a in a more a realistic situation like that. Like if I was writing
It would just be a common courtesy thing among ships
It's just something you do that you both orient and it doesn't have to be anything specific
But you both orient your ships to be level with each other
And you could do that on the fly as you approach a ship because you know
It's going to be there before you probably even can see it
So you orient yourself or there's going to be like tildir said
probably a universal axis that's just kind of
Accepted by everybody in whatever commonwealth galactic federation, whatever it is
Just some common direction that people do
And if not, then they would just orient to each other as just as a shine of good faith
It's like a almost like an in-space handshake in a way
to show that you're friendly or
Actually
That actually makes like quite a lot of sense as an explanation because I suppose if you're if you sort of like universally
Come to face each other at the same level it kind of like hey, we're not sneak attacking you sort of thing
Yeah, it's the implication if you're upside down they're like they're sneak attacking
They're upside down it's the universal sign get them the spaceship equivalent of a middle finger
Like yeah, hey, what's up? Yeah, like
And it would be like a and if there were two factions that didn't like each other
Then it would almost be like a power play
To be the one who doesn't orient and the other person orients towards you like they submit that your direction is the quote unquote
Correct one and then acquiesce to that and so there'd be dick measuring contests in that regard
Yeah, you could actually use that for some fun stuff
Yeah
But then again something that would be really good for some just sci-fi expanded thing just just get shoved in there somewhere
Yeah, it would just make there would be a lot of stuff like that when it comes to space travel and
I think that that's an interesting thing that I like to see explored how people
adjust to the the culture of space travel things like that because we have rules for how you behave on airplanes and
On subways and on cars like in driving and stuff like that
And like you tap the brakes to say thank you and someone lets you through is all this little things like that
And there'd be space equivalents of it. I wonder what they do
Uh
Easy way to work out which of tlj and ros's wis. Would you prefer if the entire trilogy was done by jj or ryan?
jj
jj, yeah
jj's would be shit, but like ryan's would be
horrifying like
Maliciously bad destructive. I don't see how ryan could do more than film
Yeah, like surely he would just have one film in which he subverts everything and then has nothing
Uh, is it a sign of too much efapping when in my dream my corgi slash shiva was talking in rags's voice
Is blindness next?
Is that a dream?
Could it be reality?
my god
Last question, I promise how would you rewrite the jedi order in the prequels to be less ignorant and stupid and still have order 66 work?
Um, that's gonna be tough. That would be a very long
Set of details probably and I would I would try and I think I would give palpatine some
significant acolytes
that are like
assassin type things
That are very threatening establish them early and then they're hidden within his higher ranks and they're
basically have him
thoroughly infiltrate all of the jedi in such a way that like
It essentially becomes his trilogy at that point
um, because I would want to do loads of work to fully explain all of it and talk to those people experiencing how like
a sort of
that kind of
Government and military would be infected slowly over time and really
Have that order 66 moment kick in hardcore with all of the different plans that have been set up for years sort of thing
Because yeah the jedi do seem to
Just be their judgment is clouded. I believe is what they say the dark side clouds everything. It's just like, okay
I
Still at 69 I might catch up at like efap 80 also. Hello deer of color. I like your videos
Hello, you are the only one
Um an explanation a weak one for the shields not working could be the constant lightning strikes on the planet
However, the film does not say that yeah, the film says
Shields the wicked atmosphere. It's just stupid line
Yeah, that should have done it for everybody shields
I mean it does right? Nobody's using shields in that scene. I don't think
I thought one of the x-wings get hits if you hit a few times and there's shields
Maybe from memory. I don't think so, but maybe yeah, I I don't remember seeing shields on anything
but
there's so much
shit pooped onto the screen from the fx department anything could have slipped through honestly
I commented on the second video about you responding
Very well. I hope you guys are nice and friendly. We don't want to don't upset the lad. He does seem to
Have um an interesting approach with the comment section. Let's just say that much
I guess huzzah. Hi ragises
Hello
Greetings mube schlee. Hello and welcome to your dear
Hi, uh, just wanted to say hello gonna watch afterwards. All right, good stuff. Enjoy it
Broom boy is a snow clone
Yes
She couldn't be a force ghost because her body hadn't left yet till kylo died just a thought
This is kind of what I mean. They fuck themselves over. She's not a force ghost, but she's also dead
So what the fuck's going on with layer at that point?
Astral projection maybe like I don't know
Yeah, it it's weird. Like why did her body take so long to disappear? Why did ray but not kylo's
Yeah
Whatever. It's whatever the path is to fuck up
JJ doesn't understand star wars. I think he wants to
No, it's my writing
Mall would you like to write for a metroid film?
I don't know how how well metroid translates to a movie. Um
Because I think you'd have to change it significantly
Like watching someone run around a world collecting upgrades and fighting different bosses, you know
It's like it's such a video game. Like I don't see how it translates bio shock comparatively
Like this bio shock would work there's so much you can do with bio shock
But I don't I don't know about a metroid film. I feel like the amount of changes you'd have to make
Would almost take take it to something else. I don't know maybe
I don't think about that one
So there's supposedly been a leak from the novelization of tros and it confirmed she was a clone
Not sure how credible it is. But anyway
Yeah, yeah
Talked about that. It's just nice that they put that in a book
God forbid they put that in a movie
Um a pamphlet and just hand it to you when you walk in the theater like here's what you guys need to know
Han Solo is the secret skywalker that explains kylo
We're all meeting each other I was gonna say like oh god implications
Imagine kylo is a girl and luke snuck into her room that night and started stroking his meat would defenders understand the character betrayal now
I don't think there would be other issues people would be having with that. Um
Yeah, you have to wonder how far you'd have to push luke before people like no, he wouldn't do that
Like oh wouldn't get a hand job to his nephew
would he
Or would he if you look at the episode blah blah blah blah blah he clearly holds
Hold the lightsaber in the same way. He would hold a piece of meat the way that he looks him and looks at kylo and scene four
it's just
You can't tell me that there's not some underlying
incestual desire
Uh
He couldn't have his sister he'll have his sister's son
Hey there long man and co for the next defab
I suggest you guys check out why you should worry about whiteness and how to beat it by morghoth reviews
I think you might enjoy laughing at it
Why you should worry about whiteness
Hey, i'm white sort of i'm one of those when you call the fluff
Sort of whitish i'm one of those creddins
Yeah, all right. I'll make a note
Uh, I just can't stop picturing palpy falling through the stratosphere and he can't stop pissing lightning and he's just
He's like on fire and crying that he poops out of fear
And cries his lightning
This is the worst experience ever for him
Uh, someone supposed to lightning fish milk
That tells you where we are at this point
Uh palps hanging on the falling death star piece. Yep. That's me. I bet you're wondering how I got into this situation
Like, you know the freeze frame it all began on nebu
Uh somewhere out there there's an ecosystem of all snoke clones, snoke dogs, snoke whales, snoke antelope ferrets, snoke rydos
I would that universe would be perfect. Snoke ferrets utter
perfection
imagine
Um, am I the only one who thinks riser skywalker palpatine looks like mr. Plinkett
What uh
You might be I guess uh, there's there's similarities in that they they both sit down a lot, right?
Uh, we got cowardly suicidal luke from tlj and non-buff no-gun cupcake making luke from batwoman hashtag not my lukes
We got the fucking lamest luke ever for the two shitty luke
points guns at people takes care of others is ripped the luke that we got is some
Fucking prissy lame cupcake baking nerdy subservient
Yeah, there was hope for that moment of being like oh my god replace our luke please but then he didn't
There's just nothing interesting about our luke and shit
Well, you know what's funny? It's I didn't even consider like it was almost a joke to consider him a character and I was like
Oh, yeah, I guess if we're being serious. Yeah, so he's just like
A plot can like a plot device at this point. Like he's not actually a person
He's just a he makes gadgets whenever it needs to happen or they whenever they want and whenever she needs information
He'll be there to be able to provide
Exposition about a camera or a scanner or an analysis thing. Just like yep. Yep. Yep. Great. He himself has just
He's just my could be anybody
He just has to be completely weak willed and he has to acquiesce to all of her demands and the shit
I once dreamt about episode nine ending with force ghost war prequel characters were there too and ghost nylus shows up and
Dick kicked ghost ig 88
It was a ghost ig 88 he kicks him his robot cock. What are you talking about?
Is his robot sponge knob his robot sponge knob
He can have square nuts. Yeah, who makes sense with him?
His washers and bolts sacred. Jedi text
the sacred jedi nut
testicles
Texticles best part of waking up is giving acolyte the suck
Oh, yeah
Is anakin's head still invaders helmet in the sequels?
If his body was turned to ash the helmet would be more deformed
If not, it'd still be welded shut so they have to decapitate him to get it
Um
You don't know what that helmet's made of no, it's made out of some strange poly
bicarbonate fibrous space material like glass steel maiden. That's what it's called
Steel maiden is um the best material
I think that's a hearthstone card. I want to say it is I don't know
Related to
I don't know. Um
Yeah, I mean the helmet
Whatever, it should have been lost forever, but it was just like put in the trailer
Have the breath sound it'll be great
This one just says nice
Uh nice palpatine draws the energy with a four sippy straw from loopity loops. Oh with loopity loops. Yeah. Yeah, that'd be great
You will enjoy it yes palpatine daddy drain me harder, oh my god
Oh my an r-rated star wars movie
Hi rugs
Hello episode three is best star wars movie change my mind
Really better than four and five. I don't know about that. Yeah
I I would just four and five. Okay good, but calm down
Uh, you must watch what do we want from a star wars movie parts one and two by patrick willams?
Do I have to?
Rick williams is um an interesting human like I said
We'll try and give it a shot at some point
Uh drug runner poe
The spice must flow
I know drug runner poe the spice must flow
read quicksand house by carlton melick the third
Oh, there you go ranks go read it
Oh, all right, um, let me uh, get it here i'll start reading let you know how it is
Um, wow this house is made out of quicksand that's that's insane now they did this
Pretty cool. How much of the new trilogy would you have to change if fin was killed during tfa?
Nothing really
I don't think i'm trying to think of something. I guess he blows up the ship in uh, the lost movie, right?
So someone else has to do that. I guess
Yeah, because he just like throws it in but there were plenty of rebels around who could have done it
There's no reason it had specifically him at all
Does he
Doesn't I thought I thought it would no it's the the woman that's with him
She puts the belt and the the grenade in at the end of the last one
He doesn't do it he's just there
Oh
well
He makes the whole fucking starship or whatever. I don't fucking know
They do I suppose the grenade drop is to knock out the tower. What do they do to knock out the ship again?
I can't remember
Oh god, no, I actually can't remember he's like because he says rose go i'm gonna knock out the ship and die for it
Whatever, but what is what do they actually do to do that? I can't
No, I can't remember
I don't know that I like chat help us out
um
Going to see the my hero movie i'm sure they reprogrammed the turret, but she did that as well
She hacked the turret and pointed it at the bridge
Oh
So even fin didn't do that if fin vanished the only thing they'd miss would be his feeling he killed phasma
Phasma was incredibly important to the story
Oh, yeah, we had to have her. She was very very important. That's why they gave her all that armor
Going to see the my hero movie i'm sure you masses will still be going once it's
Done. See you then also high regs
Hello
Ray stabbing unarmed kylo doesn't have consequences
Can you imagine anakin sewing duku's head back on in rise of uh return to the sith revenge of the sith saying my bad
That's not the jedi way
um
well
That's how jedi healing works force healing even so uh, yeah
Get used to it. Just rescue people from wounds like that
That
Video or vid ryan johnson crafting the perfect plot twist
That is
Uh, I think that's just right's newest video talking about knives out which
We're planning on seeing relatively soon. I was actually supposed to talk to drinker about that today. I guess that worked out
Uh, we're we're gonna set that up as well as trying to set up getting those lord the rings uh efaps out now. I think
That'll probably be the goal next week because uh, there won't be a new batwoman reaction yet
And I mean it's about time right after figure out how to release those exactly
Once per week or once per day
The three of them. I don't know. What's the right way to do it?
Hell is probably full of cool people rags 2020
I mean, I believe it
Is
Do either of you have any issue with that statement
The statement being which
It was your statement so I would assume you wouldn't have had any problem with it hell is probably full of cool people
I said that that when now when I said that that was highly contextual, but
Yeah, there's probably plenty of cool people in hell
Uh tlj is some bad people not all cool people. It's not just cool people
There's some evil tisms in there is what you're saying
maybe
See evil people in heaven
Um
Tlj is dumb. Of course jedi can come from anywhere. They have to procreation was against the rules
The sequels invented the importance of bloodlines
I don't disagree with that
I think the prequels pretty much made it clear that it can come from everywhere and that if you're not having the sex tisms
Then how are you making kids?
Exactly. You're not allowed to have sex and make babies, but they clearly had no problems filling the ranks up
And they probably weren't just growing jedi on trees
They were just going out and finding him or people would find out that their kid was force sensitive and be like
We're going to take you to the jedi temple and uh
Assuming they wanted their kid to do that
I met a lot of parents were like
And we don't want you to do that because then you can't you know have like a family life and everything and you have to follow
All these horror, you know
Obviously a lot of them. He was very prestigious to be a jedi, you know
How does that work though you like walk in you see your babies levitating a pile of orcs and you're like that's it you're going to jedi school
I guess so all the jedis find you by detecting your midichlorian count, right? And they're like you're a jedi now and you're like, oh my god
I don't they never really talk about it in the movies how they I assumed it was I mean, there's no reason that it's almost
purely voluntary
Yeah, it does seem to be voluntary right you can't as long as it kidnapped you
Um, but that means that if if they only train you
Because so this seems a little odd that they'll only train you if they can get you really young
But i'm thinking like if you live to be
70 80 in the future probably a hundred years old if you're a human without a problem
Then if you're 20 years old, then you're going to live with the forest for the rest of your 80 whatever years like surely
That's worth training somebody over
Because if you don't train them or if you don't talk to your kids about the forest then who will?
But if they experiment with it on their own like couldn't they hurt somebody or themselves or something?
Ooh
like surely there's like
like if if you're 20 25 30 35 and you
Discover you have the forest or something surely you'd want to train these people
Or just at least keep tabs on them so they don't suddenly turn into a new sith cult
Yeah, uh, hi, what is y'all's first console and what was your favorite game on it?
I hope you guys are doing well and as always send my love to wags
Hey, um first console that I bought was an xbox 360
Um, i'd played the gamecube a fair amount though before that someone else owned it, but I played it very often
Uh, so I kind of do both, uh for the gamecube. My favorite game was probably resident evil four
uh, and then bait and kato's eternal wings in the lost ocean
And for the xbox my I guess officially the first system I ever bought for myself
Xbox 360 to be specific. It's probably
Bioshock or
mass effect
Uh
For me it would be if the gameboy doesn't count that would have been pokemon gold on there as well
But we'll go gamecube then and my favorite games would have been it's a toss-up between
Resident evil four super smash brothers mealy. Um
Yeah, mealy was good
I really loved maricot double dash simpsons hit and run like there was a shit ton of care for double dash
I felt like the driving in double dash was kind of
Floaty and inexact did that make sense?
Uh, I didn't
Yeah, I I liked it, but I didn't well I it was okay
Um, but I I didn't like the driving in double dash. I don't know. Maybe someone in chat kind of knows what I'm
What said you played pokemon gold I played
uh blue fist
Then yellow and then gold that was my order of pokeman's
So i'm just asking how did I how did I get introduced to halo?
So I was introduced to the first halo because a friend of mine
Had an original xbox. Oh shit metroid prime
That's also metro prime would be my favorite gamecube game probably actually
Oh, yeah, don't forget metro crime. I played the second one. I liked it a bunch never really played it first, but um
A friend of mine had an xbox had halo on it. We played that that was the first first person shooter i'd ever played
So I still remember being young going over there seeing it and learning how to like look and move around
For the first time with controllers. I got the hang of it fairly quick, but it was really weird at first
You know that stuff you take for granted now, but first time you do it's the first time you do it
But it was like wow
You
Deal deer. Do you have an answer to this question?
I feel old now. Uh first console computer thing I had was um
thing
What thing?
The atari box thing. I can't remember what how they branded it in the uk
The magnavox
Atari
Maybe it's honestly I can't you remember what games you played on it. Maybe that was narrow it down
Not really because they were old and shit
so you
Like it's very hazy
But I I remember it existing
I I really don't remember very much my child
So it's it's kind of pointless asking me about it. What are we saying? Atari 2600?
Yeah, I think that might have been it sort of the big brown wood
Colored thing. It was awful
He doesn't remember the big brown wood from his childhood
No, I don't that's probably why I don't remember
He did some stupid things as a child
I got an atari right here. I got an atari if you suck my
You play my joystick
My square nuts
You joke about that I think I actually still have the joke from that thing so I think
Somewhere
Why isn't jay brought on stream when he's in chat
Why isn't jay brought on stream when he's in chat because if we had that logic then there would never be any fap
that wasn't full roster would they
not just bring jay on and
Metal and that star wars guild just because they're in chat. What kind of lunacy is this?
It'll be anarchy anarchy in the streets and in the uh
The houses that's pretty much everything streets and houses
Um, it's kylo's informal name kylo solo or ben ren
Ben ren because it's funny. Yeah, I don't know i'm thinking special k
Special k. Yeah, we'll go with that
Ray skywalker is the most hilarious example of her being a fanfiction self insert mary sue it fits so well
We should all just agree to rename it
Yeah, the name is just so
Uh such it's such a slap in the face star wars
Sorry about that star wars
Need a shop of the delightful children from down the lane from kids next door as the knights of ren
Always walk around as a group and can't be more than a foot away from each other at any time
Um
Yeah, that would probably work I guess if that's what they do because all the knights of ren do
This keyboard warrior stuff is kind of horrifying
Yeah, the fact that he put his screenshots in his video where they were really embarrassing comments like don't do it
Hap
Why did the knights of ren not have lightsabers or powers because they're not that they're knights of ren idiot, you know, but they
But they are
Oh are they now?
Yeah, like luke says he had a school of a dozen people
Like kylo went to the dark side and took six of them and they were his it actually says there is actually a line
That says they they were his students. Why don't they have the force or lightsabers?
Why do they use stupid medieval weapons?
Why are they so dusty?
Why are they covered in dust all the time how are we supposed to answer these questions we don't know
knights of sheath
I I don't I don't understand the types of ren at all
Like I just see them in the film. I was just why do you exist?
Would have been better if they just forgot about you entirely
I want to see the knights of frick
That would be awesome
Night knights of frick as in barbie
Your six guys just walking around knocking on hello
Hey
We didn't deserve babu
The annoying thing is that little shit is probably one of the better bits about that film just because he's an annoying shit
He could be he could be in something good. Just he's just so he's such a star wars character now
Oh
Never stupid little shit making weird noises even pops up at the end of the cockpit and here I didn't actually blow up
I didn't actually blow up. Hey
Fine guys, if you're worrying about me
Never go full diz tard ewok tony stark
Yeah, that makes sense
I didn't watch the whole video, but here's what you did wrong in the video. Hey mauler. It's one of your haters
So this tard made this video because he's a massive and a spig who had a problem with the channel
He liked making a video with different view than him
uh
Yeah, well, I mean it does seem to be that he's very unhappy that they were disparaging toward the rise of skywalker
He couldn't quite handle that that that took it to the next level, you know
Get short fat otaku on efap also hyrax
Hello and yeah, we should get uh, we should get him on it's always going to be a possibility. We'll get around to it
Really? Uh, yeah, really like to have him on
Rag says let's subvert expectations when he comes
Subvert expectations
Disnoid dinosaur coming to a star non-pro war near you
Oh, I get it. Remember when on the on the whiteboard it said star wars is not pro war
Okay
Uh, the ot gives me stomach pleasure excellent stomach pleasure
You're the real alphastagged you'll dear
Hey, not bad alphastag I've heard worse
Is it just me or is tilde's voice much deeper than usual? Yeah, apparently so discord ish yet
Uh, what do y'all think of ash versus the evil dead? I have not seen it
I forget. I've never seen that episode of pokemon
Yeah, I know. It's really good though. Like I wouldn't
You should have seen it by now, but I will forgive you for not having seen it
Um
Yeah, I've only heard good things apparently people like it so, uh, hopefully the fans got what they want to know but
Respect your guest and do the video. Well as you can see this is why I started doing this like, uh
If we had done the video as well, I don't think you would we got two videos done today
We got two different videos done
That's incredible complete videos
Uh, there are hot ben shapiro's in your area
Sweet I can give him some of my free ipads
Yeah
Star wars disnoid retard fights
I'd be okay with watching that why not
Disnoids turning on disnoids
How horrifying watch the third video you lazy boats. Oh my goodness
Did you guys hear about sham you've heard of this
but
This I I think I have yeah disnoids
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, all right
Did you guys hear about shan lee being opted out of mulan because of me too disney as a disgrace to the entertainment industry?
And I live in orlando
No, i'm sorry
Don't worry. Sorry about that. They won't have the monopoly on it forever. Right guys?
Yeah, right guys
Your guest tldr prepped for this and you should you and you should all right you screwed your guest tldr
I'm upset. Come back. Let's do the rest
It's fine chill. He'll be okay. I mean, I think he got a good blast of it out of those first two ones
So it's all good. I'm not mad. You didn't watch the next video. I'm just disappointed at you and rags both
Poor tldr. You failed him. Also, hi rags
Hello
Hello
I've always wondered and it is off topic. What kind of music do you lovely men listen to?
uh
So the genre I typically say that I listen to is symphonic metal
The two favorite bands I have are rhapsody slash rhapsody of fire and avantasia
Go rags I
I listened to all kinds of different music. Uh, everything from
I really like
Mash-ups, I listened to soundtracks. I listened to classical stuff
a lot of
some electronic music
I listened to
It's all kinds of stuff all kinds of stuff
Um, don't really don't really listen to a lot of pop songs or rap songs
And i'm not big in the country
But a lot of other stuff i'm big into very varied
And
Yeah, I I would say that the
There's nothing I don't like definitively from every any genre this stuff that i'm liking like all kinds of stuff all over the place
I'm not that picky when it comes to music honestly
Yeah, it's like a song by song thing for me. Mm-hmm
Um
Uh, hi rags
Hello. Love you more than how kind ps you guys had me in tears from laughing tonight. Thanks. I needed that
We had some good ones tonight. Yeah, that was a weird one
Lots of crazy shit was happening
Uh, i'm not oh wait, uh sheaves evil clone. John Palpatine
Such a shitty
Because you have someone who works in accounting John Palpatine
This sound evil still I think you know, he's gotta be evil in some way evil accounting, you know
Uh
I shall evolve and become john ellis battle bush to fight the disnoids for star wars and for toenails battle bush
We will support such an endeavor go battle bush
Uh testing if I can write psycho. Oh, there you go psycho it worked
Oh, there you go. Huh?
I used to like wisecrack tlj reveals the pretentious channels from the intelligent ones. It's truly a test for critical thinking
Um, I mean they seem to be okay with all of the sequel trilogy
Don't even just tlj like it's so weird to see them defending the rise of skywalker too. It's just like oh
That's quite the hill you're dying on it's gonna be a vicious death
Uh pineapple pizza is good who disagrees with uh, whoever disagrees can fight me
Yeah
Well, shit internet fights it is
At mauler, uh midnight's edge is still wanting you
wanting to guest
uh
May very well happen at some point
Have to have to check the old schedule arou. We've got a lot of people we're going to be trying to guest. Um
Like I said earlier gokinara is one of the people that I've tried to get to guests for the past thing a year and a half
or whatever so
You know we're getting there
um
Speaking of red lightsabers tell shad that apparently kyber crystals are alive and then being red means they are bleeding god
I love star wars
You know, he did. Uh, we did talk to him about that. I think the last time he was here
We mentioned the whole type of crystals bleed to make red. You know in case i'm imagining that I will save the question
The fucking shad questions are enough to have a whole podcast at this point. I'm not sure what to do with these
Like what do we do rags? We can't if we have him on
You know to have an actual episode and then we have to you know
Just have him answer all the questions then we get like three hours in with those like what am I supposed to do?
What am I supposed to do? Tell me what are the answers?
I
I'd love to have one just to answer questions
Yeah, like call the stream shad answers your questions. That's it. Shada answers all of your questions
um
Avoid the disnoid now. That's an old reference
And I don't even know it because I know of the noid. I just know of simpsons which knows of the noid
Funny how that works
If I could choose one actor to play one role in one film i'd have mark hamill play luke skywalker in dlj
I agree. That'd be great
Uh, it'd be great to see
Uh poe couldn't find fin because he woke up at night. You ever try to find a black person at night. Wow
Could have been wearing bright clothing. You don't know
Yeah, you don't know you mean like all of his stormtroopers. Yeah, you could be wearing a stormtrooper outfit. It'd be fine
He was wearing his stormtrooper outfit. Exactly
Okay, mola, where will efap con be hosted?
um
I think I was on metal stream when this is like being joked about I was like
No, we I probably want to call it long con
Because not only is it like double meaning it also makes it sound like it's a bad thing to go to
It's like the long con but the long con, you know
Maybe just end up calling it efap con to make sure people know what it is. But yeah, either way
Um, but I don't know where it would be hosted. Honestly, I don't know what would be best
I figure the majority of our audiences are actually in america rather than europe. So
You never know how to check them demographics
Uh rags you're the mccartney to maulers lennon j is probably yoko. Oh, no
j
God damn it j
If you're not a rhino, I have to milk you for the milk. You don't have
the quote from rags apparently
That's a strange quote but I can see myself saying it yeah, like I wouldn't be surprised you said it at some point in some way
I prefer a nice rack rags. Also. Welcome tilde. Ah
Hi
Most people don't put tilde. They put tilde
Well, that is because that is the the actual format of the name. It's just if you're lazy and you say
Tilde
The just kind of go
Yeah
Tilde
However the letters kind of come out
something along those lines speaking of which I think i'm actually stuck out now because um
Time is getting on and I do actually have to wake up in not too many hours
So I would like to get maybe
an hour of sleep
Before I have to do all this shit
You want to uh, tell the chat about your channel and why they should subscribe
Nah
No
I mean, it's completely obscene. I'm just like geez
Yeah, I I run a channel. I very rarely make video it frequently deals with
politicking and
Far too long academic studies which most people can't be bothered to read
If you like listening to people listen, if you like listening to people talk
With a really dry boring voice going through lots and lots of numbers. You'll probably enjoy it
Well, then there you go people. I'm a great salesman as you can tell you could probably um
Start with this layer video because they're all star wars fans. I think to a degree you might have some fun with that
Yeah, that's probably the best one you get to hear about people who got blown up in decompression chambers. It's great fun
And obviously uh
Make sure your head's all right. Yeah
I think it's only a minor lead
I
I think going to sleep with the concussion is probably a bad idea. But you know what is gonna be fine
Either that or i'll never wake up again
Oh, so, you know, I I feel like flipping that coin. Let's go for it. It'll be
We advise him that he gets medical attention here just so that it's in audio form
Oh, it's fine, it's it's just a piece of wood
It's fine. It's just going through the skull
It's fine
Well, then yeah, it's been fun, sir. I'm glad you you popped on with us appreciate it and um
Well, hopefully I can have you on again in the future at some point
Well, that would be enjoyable. We can actually get through the third video at some point
That would be great because I getting through three videos on efab is a rarity
yeah, but man I I am curious as to the stupid shit that people are going to pull out to defend this film because
I I don't actually think there is a single legitimate defense for the right of sight
I actually do not even think there's not even the themes really
No, I don't even think you can do it with that
honestly, because of how
badly
It not only contradicts the previous films but is also contradicted by the previous films
I I do not actually think there is a single valid defense for
Because king arthur yeah, oh shit. I didn't think of that. I thought it was obvious myself
I need to think about more middling texts. That's the answer to everything
Damn it
Anyway, i'm gonna go and sleep on that and I will hopefully see you fine gentlemen and your
In the not too distant future. Yes, sir. Thanks for coming on and have a good night. Hopefully
Yeah
It'll be better if it's a good morning
Oh true. All things considered, but thank you very much. Anyway
Yeah, man. See you around
All right. See you later
And then it was two once again
This always happens, you know, we always eventually get back to this point
Well, I suppose I shall continue on uh
Yeah
Is it wrong to ship maula slash aden and rags slash star wars girl well both of them are taken
I'm not no, not you the the two females the disnoids
Well, they'll be anti-disnoids. I think that's not really there you go for it
Well, yeah, I mean, I don't think there's any rules to shipping. I don't think I don't think it's immoral
You know what who are we to stifle your creative artistic juices I knew you'd say juices I was waiting for it
created
Juices your muse juice use juice. Oh, no. Yeah, just fucking let that muse juice flow. No
On the upside to the
Palpit clone thing this means technically that anakin is still the chosen as he killed the real palpatine while ray got the sloppy seconds
Not really
No, if ray is vaporized the like core of palpitine while anakin only destroyed his body
Who's the real palpitine killer at that point?
Also, it still fucks with anakin because that means he didn't kill palpitine palpitine was still alive
He just went into a different body still doing stuff. Why do people think this fixes shit?
This makes it worse
It's the in the book. It says like his body the clone body couldn't handle his spirit
And it's like so that means he was dead. That's the same palpitism god damn. It's not like a
Why why why
Uh, what would you guys give blade runner 2049 out of 10 talked with glib about it and he gave it a seven
Oh, wow, that's surprisingly high. Um
Uh
Like I like I usually reference I was given a very
long extensive and referenced filled
Uh discussion with someone who hated it
And I was very convinced. It was a very poorly written film. Um
But until i'd watch it again and the original I probably wouldn't be able to give a number that I would feel confident about
Yeah, i've heard a lot of why it's bad, but I haven't seen it since the first time I saw it
So i'm definitely willing to be swayed
Yeah, i'm i'm afraid I can't answer that in good conscience I would give a number that wouldn't uh
Be representative of my assuredness
Um other gibberish answer there you go
Also that makes no sense
Doesn't make sense. What does it make sense? Explain explain to us. What sense is not made explain yourself explain this bullshit
I would pay money to see molar and ben shapiro discuss movies with rags as the mediator ben is really good debater
But also an awful movie critic
I mean if he wants to say riser skywalker was good
Yeah, uh
I'm really like ben shapiro. They couldn't tell which way was up. Do you think that was good?
I'd be yeah. I don't know like surely he would have a problem with that. I don't know
Oh the person was saying it made no sense that the clone body is breaking down when sapping more power made him youthful
Uh, no, the logic apparently is that his spirit is so powerful. It can't be contained within a clone body. And so the clone body is deteriorate
I can't I can't be contained in this body
And thus sucking the juices out of kylo and ray make it so that his body is fully capable of supporting his
powerful spirit
I can't handle this body. I need your juices. Yes, the juices really just that's what they do
I need your life juices for my body
Um, I had a dream that sargon was trying to sell me fried chicken with a side of octopus wearing a googly-eyed chicken costume
I blame you massives
Yeah
Yourself in your mind for all your strange fetishy wishes wishy wishes
Palpatine's evil clone has a goatee doesn't flush eats kitten fetuses grills newborn puppies cuts off blind children's hands
And says the dawn isn't that great
Damn that's a bad person a really even see even palpatine was like no, that's just too evil
I blocked steve shives before he could block me nice
That'll get him shit
Uh, has anyone seen tmm's comments about doomcock being trolled? Tmm grifter gets grifted
Who's tmm?
uh
Is that the mundane matt or
I can't think of who that would be an acronym for the bad
the the
massive monster
Maybe someone in chat knows
Who is tmm? Am I having a tism? What is what is that an acronym for?
Are you tisming?
Are you retarded?
Has anyone oh, yeah a jab in the rug in sims cinemas near you
A jab in the rug is worth three a gym
I realize that this is my third super chat today
But I just need to say that some dubs are absolutely fantastic. Some american voice actors are amazing
Yeah, i'm sure they are absolutely
You
Are there any games you guys are looking forward to playing this year? Yeah doom eternal, uh
Yeah
I'm curious about halo, but i'm not like excited i'll be interested to see how cyberpunk does see what people think of it
That's coming out this year, right? Or is it not?
I think it might I think they delayed it, but I think it's still coming out this year. I'm not sure though
Apparently tmm is the mess ionic manic
I do not know that person the mess ionic manic. I have no idea who that is
If you want a great dub watch sao abridged
Oh, there you go folks
Sword art online. No, thanks. Yeah, but it's abridged. That means it's better
If it has to be shorter to be better, I don't know
I can count dubs that are better than subs on my friend's fingers and he has no arms
But how many fingers does he have 17 000
I feel like that's excessive. Hey
Hey
I was right back from the movie and new masses are still going lol. Yeah still going
Hi again for the fifth time maula you've inspired me to do videos essay series on marathon
Thank you for the tips last efap on how to do it all wags. You're adorable and need to do more sheave bits
Oh, thank you. Um, I will do more she bits. Don't you worry?
Uh rags are there open world fps games any recommendations? Thanks
Open world fps games
um
I would recommend
A far cry 5 actually I would recommend that
Um
That's sort of open world
I would say middle gear saw oh, that's not a third first person
Hey first person
I'm sure I could think of some. Uh
I liked borderlands too
I don't know about the third one
Um
First person shooters that are open world
I don't know. Um, I was gonna say I don't think i've played many at all of fistpuss and open world fallout, uh new vegas
Fallout new vegas is good. You should play that
That's a good first person shooter. That's uh open world. Fallout 3 is okay. Uh, they'd say pretty good
Fallout 4 with mods is good. I'd recommend that I would recommend that. Uh, fallout 4 with mods
Um, let's see if I can think of any more first person shooters
Oh minecrafts
Minecraft absolutely that is the a world so big you will never finish it
But
Yeah, I guess I started with a few some of the far cries are really good like I said five is good
Um new dons. All right, if you liked far cry five then go for a new dawn as well
You can have some fun with that
Let's see, let me look at my steam list
Um
If you are into it
Dayz
Definitely a unique experience there. Uh, I I mean that in earnest and not for everybody that's for certain
um
The forest sort of open world that might be worth checking out
Um, oh, uh seven days to die seven days to die is a good one
It's not so much a shooter, but it is first person
I would definitely recommend that
um
Ah
Trying to think
Of games that fit the bill the deus ex games aren't really open world
but
they're they're they're
Quasi open world same thing with the first and second bio shock. They're oh not open world
But there's a lot of exploration involved in there
um
Ah
I mean if you want a blast from the past would be far cry too. It's got some tisms in it, but it's ultimately pretty good
You yank bullets out of your arm in that one
Yeah, you do
But
I don't I can't think of any
I can't think of any more but it's not a long list as it is. So I mean that's pretty strong list. I reckon
Yeah, I think that's a pretty strong list
Oh shadow warrior two is sort of open world. Uh, that's a good option there shadow warrior two
I feel I must remind you that bungee halo games all have outstanding soundtracks
I find them to be as good as an and iconic as star wars soundtracks
I mean, I like the halo, uh songs every once in a while. I can't halo's got incredibly good music
Yeah, like I I wouldn't disagree with that. Hey, that's good shit
Shout out to vinicious
Niches that's that's mr. Vin the death pond will be completed on schedule
Trust my bustiness also wags sit on my face for an hour and play a video game
Mmm, that would be amazing
I'd love that
Uh, did you guys skip my super chat asking what you thought of jedi fallen order?
If not, then I really must be blanking. No, we covered that you must be blank and we talked about it
I said it was all right. It was fine
I said I played it for a small amount of time
But that uh from what I played of it, it was cool and that I know that people really love it from what I've heard
Are you guys gonna efap cinema wins video on tros would love to see it
Oh, that's probably gonna be golden material because he's gonna have to stretch like
Motherfucking stretch. I'm strong to make that video
Even remote he's gonna be doing stuff like you have to admit
Harrison ford's portrayal of hon solo is very touching in this scene
And then at one point it'd be like you have to admit the visuals in rise of skywalker are incredible
Like stuff like that expensive. Yeah, they spent money on it
We'll just be like backpedaling the whole time like yeah, I know it's not very good, but there's some stuff. That's okay, right?
Please help me
Film is a visual media ball
Uh
Rax I sent you an email asking about how to get into your discord but haven't received a reply. What should I do?
Um when did well i'll send me another one just in case maybe it
Got filtered in a different way. Just uh, resend it real quick and i'll uh, i'll get back to you with it
Because I don't recall. I don't ignore those so
Uh
Hey, misha calling a neptunia body pillow not safe for work is
Artar dead also pancake is a cuck
I'm all affix your discord. Hi rags
Hey
Um, I just watched jojo's bizarre adventures and jojo rabbit today. I had fun
Yeah, they both yeah jojo's uh jojo jojo's rabbit is great jojo's bizarre rabbit is
somehow
Commies to the wall
All right
Hey chat. What's your opinion of the ghost stories anime? It's tonal's favorite not because you're a bunny, but because you're black
Hmm
Oh, yeah, there you go a question for chat. They're welcome to answer that at their leisure
Yeah, go for it, man
Oh god, here we go. I wonder if you're gonna be able to guess
What happened when I start reading these ones?
finally a correct opinion on avatar
Rags unintentionally subbed er into the chat. Yes, he did kick rags and replace him with j. Oh
You you be careful what you ask for don't know what show you're on about rags, but I agree
Yeah, well that's a just a good that's just good stance to have when i'm giving my opinions disagree with me
He'll probably be right
Kick the rags man. Oh, no
Rags avatar take is jay's space ball take space balls take no, it isn't
So jay's says space balls is boring right which as long as he's keeping that to himself
That's fine, but it's still just like mind-blowing
If I can reference the comb joke as a bad joke, it's like that's so fucking good
He was like a boomer joke
Jay's a boomer when when they get the close up he says we ain't found shit. That's funny as hell
Because why would they found anything by combing the desert? It's fantastic
He's he's he's welcome to find it boring. But if he says
The poorly written jokes, he's gonna have to try a little harder than that, isn't he?
Watch anomalies revenge of the prequels
Um
And I can have a look see
about
more specifically what that is, I suppose
I
Is that uh, because I I think
Anomalies the one that has responded to
The cosmonaut variety hours tism take on the prequels because we're we're eventually going to be here. I think so
having a look see it that ourselves
And I want to stress because this is not my perspective, right? This is taken directly from cosmonaut himself
He said he thinks it's one of his best videos
I should probably hunt down that tweet just to make sure i'm not like misquoting him because that's going to be really interesting to think about
Uh when covering that video because I checked it out
Um, I think half of it with fringy and we were not impressed and me and fringy are not people who defend the fucking prequels
That regularly at all
So, you know
interesting tisms ahead I would say
Uh rag says we need better standards while saying dead space is good
Dead space like the video game dead space is good
dead space is really good
It ain't perfect, of course, but like I would be curious as to why
You think it's um not good. I I would be legitimately curious why
Thinking dead space is good as a lowering of standards
Honestly, i'm i'm i'm curious
Rags needs to be taken to the vet. Oh my
Why so I could
I guess just to make sure that you're all right, and then that vet will be like, oh god
I guess these these opinions must be well founded. How can a dog be this healthy? Yeah
You can't exceed health standards. It's like oh my god. I don't even understand. Is this some kind of a
Fucking robot or what is this? Um, kick the walrus
Also, don't ever fall for mert. Oh mary mayhem's bullshit. She's trying to use you she's horrible. Oh my
Um, oh, I I don't even know I was gonna say I don't I don't know her very well at all, but I uh, obviously
I don't even know if that's just maybe even a beam within the community or whatever. But uh,
She's she's she's been very friendly to me. I don't I don't know anything more than that. I'm afraid
Um, hi mauler and then dot dot dot rags
Hello
Hello, uh rags are showing sides of sickness with that comment time to put the dog down. Oh
No, and I I just don't understand it. I don't know if you guys are ignoring the stuff i've seen or I don't know, man
Rags, you might want to reference what you saw instead of being a drama whore either that or you're automatically dismissive of anything anime-esque
I'm not my opinion on anime has not been because
I have like i've seen a lot and i've i've hated a lot that i've seen
I just don't like a lot of the tropes and stuff and this goes with japanese games as well. Um after
Because mauler is going to show me a particular episode that he's been dying to show me
So I want to see that
especially
There you go, but then we will uh, we will proceed onwards
Uh rags how much did you watch and what are the issues show gets better as it goes, especially when book two starts
Yeah, do you do you agree with that mauler
I think season one's the best season
You think yeah, does it get so it doesn't get better as it goes. That's not how I would phrase it. No
Hmm interesting
Rags is no longer a member of efap. Oh, no
Oh
Sorry, your
Anime cartoon show is very poorly written and the fights are terrible and some of the plot's nonsensical but all right
Uh, so weird. You just read the super chat asking about jedi fallen order right as i'm playing it for research for a video
How about that goodness?
Good luck on that. Uh, good luck on that. Uh that video there good luck on your your video game review
Hello there now that i'm caught up. I started watching literature devil. He's actually pretty good unrelated
Do you know who shay may or white light are they both have analysis videos over seven hours?
Oh my goodness. I know white light by name. I've not seen any of his videos yet. Um
Shay may I don't know who I guess jay may
But it's not shammy, right
Shay may i'm guessing shay may is a different youtuber. But yeah, you know fair enough
And their game analysis videos specifically also high rags
Hello
Um
Light speed ram happens cut to person in one of the shuttles looking out the window and going wait
How does that work tlj novelization by maula?
I'll be
That's all I do. That's my fixes. I just have characters and I would say that's stupid
That's dumb. That's stupid
Can you give me a sneak peek on next week's efap the plan is to run an interview style efap?
If everything goes to plan
We shall see
Let's hope um, and it goes it goes that way you never know, you know, some things can fall through but let's you know
That's the way life is
Always great to come home from work to some fresh baked efap. Thanks for the best show on youtube guys. Also high rags
Hello
Uh maula, would you ever do a collaboration video with matthew mitosis?
You are probably the two most thorough game analysts even better yet get matthew mitosis on efap
I would happily do that. I don't think he'll be interested. Uh
He's rather
Seclusive from what I know and I don't I don't know if he's not a fan of me because of uh
I take shots at different reviewers. I think he might not be a fan of that from from memory
I can't remember if he's got if he even knows I exist or if he's cool with coming on podcasts or whatever
I don't think he's on any podcasts, but um
I can give it a shot. I can send a message see what happens. Yeah, I'd be really interested to
Have all matthew mitosis on he's a very very interesting reviewer and I really really enjoy it would be great
Uh captain marvel attacked teal deer
Yeah
Didn't kill him though. He's fine. You'll make it. He's all right
Um
Southpaw's new sonic review mentions a pretty cool movie at the time stamp
755 you dumbo should really watch it. Oh, I know what that movie is
I know it's gonna be hardcore henroy
Um
Uh, it's official efap is more violent than joker
Oh my goodness, he's right
What is it with brits sargon joins efap and kills the stream teal deer joins the stream and almost it almost kills him
It's a stream getting vengeance the dangerous place for a youtuber
Uh
Teal deer's voice is deeper since I last watched him. Yeah, apparently that was discord giving him the flisms
Efap casualty counter one
Yeah, I mean we sending enough people to sleep, but now we're killing people nice
I only watched
We weren't uh, we weren't satisfied just putting them to sleep. Not enough
I only watched the first half of the mandalorian. I was wondering when it would get good, but apparently it only gets worse
Yeah, I feel like it's worse
Hmm
Sorry, my dude as daniel hagman would say teal deer best brown paper and paraffin oil ought to do it
I don't know if that's directed. Maybe that's something he would understand. I don't get it brown paper and paraffin oil. I'm not sure about that one
Yeah, I can't say I know exactly what that means
I know you guys have already seen it, but I think the best anime is full metal full metal alchemist brotherhood
I also recommend eye shield 21. Most anime is bad. I just saved three dollars by splitting that up
All right. All right. Well you you gained us
Um, but yeah, I I liked full metal alchemist brotherhood quite a bit
Rags is moray reincarnated confirmed get him joker
Joke er
What do you get when you shit talk avatar? I'll tell you what you get you fucking deserve
Yeah, be careful avatar is going to get what it deserves and then you're gonna
Learn about it and you'll come to accept it and you'll be come very uh, well, I don't know disillusioned maybe
That's right. Just a part of growing up
So you're good
Um, how do you miss the rags? Hope you enjoy my video heart. I tried
That's from a british to potato. I can't remember. Did we watch something of theirs?
We probably did I forget which one it actually was because we went through quite a bit
um
Let me check and see though. Um, sorry, there's just so many to keep track of once I see it i'll recognize it
Uh, oh my god, please watch sponge bobs sponge knobs square nuts mall. Well, that's like an actual thing
Well, are they asking me to watch the the show or oh, it's a porn parody, right?
sponge
Sponge cock
Sponge knob and his knobby
spongy
knob
Oh my god, is this like the full thing? Oh, it's just like three minutes of it on youtube, I guess. Okay
Um
That looks pretty ridiculous i'm gonna lie
Okay
Okay, yeah, uh, that's on youtube, I guess they don't show anything without the nuts that's really fucking weird this dude
They fucking dressed him up in that outfit. Yeah, he's like a full on
spongebob cosplay
That is
That is really creepy
I don't see the behind the scenes on this one
Uh molar i'm confused. What do you mean the falcon nose dives into endor? They destroy the millennium falcon in this movie
Uh, oh if I said I meant I guess I meant to say, um, oh, no, wait. Yeah, that does kind of happen the falcon kind of
for some reason
Brashes into endor. Do you remember that when they don't have landing gear? They just fucking plow it into the ground and it's like why?
The the falcon can learn it down. Yeah, even without landing gear it can fucking land
They don't destroy the millennium falcon though it survives
Um, yeah, hooray
The only undamaged thing. No, it's got that for robot in it
How would you guys feel about the mandalorian if his armor covered more of his body so that he was basically invincible to blasters?
I feel
Better because it would remove the element of men you're lucky every single time you're shot then it becomes an issue of he's not good
He's just that he just has yeah
He's getting to like two minute levels where it's just like oh, no
How will he defeat this enemy with his immunity suit? It's like watching iron man, but mandalorian
When he's supposed to be this like hardworking bounty hunter that's trying to make his way in the universe as opposed to a literal billionaire superhero
That can do whatever he wants. I don't know. It just
Presents alternate issues and that's outside of the other issues that
show has
Most underrated funniest rags joke is from efap 29 four hours seven minutes 26 seconds
My goodness
What is it? I guess after I closed watch together. Do you not remember?
Well, I have a theory but i'd rather confirm it
I have a theory
I'm sure it's the one I think is the most unappreciated joke is
I mean, it's not like you've told
You know five thousand jokes or whatever across all of this, you know, nope
Not me just just
One subtle one all the time
All right. Let's have a look here. Take a look. Let's fucking listen to my subtle ass joke
You
Diddling with these times
Efap 20
All right guys, we ought to pretend to like each other hang on that's a good intro
Uh
40726
You
You're as strong as han and leah in the empire everyone agrees dear god literally everybody agrees
Fuck oh, he's gonna take something dude. That's the look of a serial killer, bro
This swiggy swooty i'm coming for that booty
I
Did he make anakin such a creep even the lines he says are creepy
I want to come on her face when she sleeps. There'll be one. Oh shit. You're here
Think addressing everyone then realizing he's actually there like what the fuck
Oh
That is funny fuck dude
I think it's because you match the uh, the clip i'll shed your hair
Draw a story from your job at the toy store
perhaps
One day in the future if if I re I mean most of the stories don't require visuals from the toy store because they're very simple
to visualize, you know
I was I was thinking how do I visualize me hanging on like a rail whilst sort of
Swinging and then hitting my back on a the concrete thing. I was like, I need I need to describe it with a picture
um
Invisible man bad
He literally goes from throwing huge guys across the room to being beaten by a small girl and most cops forget how to use guns
Or investigate also the I am doesn't get hit
from getting hit with pans
But gets hit from pepper spray despite the full face mask. He's wearing it's bad
Oh, yeah, okay. Well, this is for what the invisible man
Well, maybe the pepper spray like gets in his mask hole
Yeah, maybe it just goes through that mask. It's just not thick enough to prevent it, you know
Uh
Mayla can rags, please say, uh, yes, I will paste this to you
It's probably not that bad no, no, it's not that it's just the um, so that people don't see it coming
Don't do it in your most seductive voice
It's not too bad
I I think so much worse of what my audience will actually do
Is lay with me. Oh fair lady tiko
Knows what they'll use that for
You knows lay with me. Oh fair lady tiko. I like how it says. I don't need it for a meme or anything
but somebody might
Well, you know what?
That's a man of the community right there
Exactly man knows who his friends are
Uh, obi-wan that's contributing obi-wan. Well, have you noticed the shields are still up anakin?
Which way is up master?
Master skywalker which way is up which way is up
The way you're going to heaven
Yeah
Both conditions are bad since they should afflict the rebel forces as well yet
They don't but i'd say can't tell which way is up is worse. Yeah, I'd say someone's saying that they don't affect the rebel shields
I could have sworn
that I
You know, I I mean you might be right i'd have to see the movie again, but in good tisms
Yeah
Uh teal dia. Let me use the loo real quick. I'll be right back. That's all right
Deal dear will your streams ever feature those cool thomas the tank and soviet anthem memes again?
Rip warcraft 3 I can save that for him if we manage to get
Uh him back hopefully he can give an answer to that one
Is this guy related to the last epic guy
Maybe so maybe he was influenced by the closer look to make his video. You never know
Um
all right, uh, well
Thank you gentlemen for the stream. I will have to watch avatar again to see if rag's take is correct
I remember really liking it as a 12 year old kid, but now i'm a 22 year old kid. Anyways guys. Good night
Good night, sir
Um, i've skipped over one. That's for rags. I will keep it until he returns. I love man j
Yeah
Rags please say hello like mrs. Doubtfire. Thanks, mate
Hello
Anita Sarkeesian also, I love your take on
Oh
Hey, oh, uh, wasn't it knights of ren?
Your take on knights of ren
I don't think our takes on the knights of ren are particularly yeah, they're not that interesting
They're shit. I'm kind of thinking what core would be other than that though
The lights of ren the knights of ren
Hey knights of ren going around not doing nothing investigating searching the town again
Uh
Greetings
What sci-fi space craft star wars halo any would you personally like to own assuming maintenance was not a problem?
Hmm i'd have to really think um
Um, we get to I mean are
Or maybe the millennium falcon would not be a bad choice
Seems like it's got enough room
Um, I probably won't i'm sure there's a lot of the star destroyer. I feel like yeah
I guess if it was more like uh, like a personal vessel like uh
a more
Reasonable size for myself and a few others or a small crew of people
um
hmm
Trying to think through star wars of some vessels that would be good to have got enough room and stuff
Hmm
Help me out here well if we so large scale we got the super star destroyer small scale
um
It's kind of hard to think outside of stalls a mid small tier like is the is the normandy for mass effect too much
um
I'm i'm trying to think of uh
Let's see, um
The
No, the kellian's too small
uh
What is the name of the?
Ship and dead space three that they used to get to tauvalantis. I forget the name of that ship, but it looks pretty nifty
It seemed pretty reasonable
Um
Let's see, what else have we got?
Hmm
The one from
Fallen order isn't so bad. It's got a weird shape to it though. I'll say that
I don't know. There's probably a ton of answers, but I might be drawing just a little bit of a blank
um
Yeah, I think normandy is definitely up there if we can have something that big if not
If you have to scale it down the millennium
It's hard not to choose the falcon isn't it?
Yeah, because it's just it's it's a nifty ship
It seems to be very capable at all sorts of different things. It could house a decent amount of people
Uh, you could probably refit it in a lot of different ways with room
It's got a lot of space you can work with how do you get the factor of hey, man?
Millennium falcon is pretty cool
Yeah
Yeah, i'm i'm sorry. I might both my choice is probably from stalls, but it kind of tells you uh
I'm swayed by my attachment guardians of the galaxy ship. Is that the benatar? Is it benatar?
You're like I can't remember too much about its interior
It seemed to be all right though
You also want to say that you long men never cease to bring me joy, thank you for all the tisms i'll see you around
Oh, absolutely. I'm glad to hear it man. Thank you very much. Hey rags. Love you whistling. Keep it up
I will do my best
A lot of times I do without thinking
Teal deus sounds like a chain smoking whiskey drinking jay
You're a chain smoking whiskey drinking you how about that?
Oh a jay, they're completely different. He said that he said he said what did he say?
Uh, uh, a jay, you know those creatures yeah manage efap
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I saw him. He was in that movie epic
When are you guys going to do the second part of the blandalorian analysis stream with shad?
That could potentially happen in the next two of them. Never know i'll have a chat with him see what he's up for
I would like to because that show is the worst at the end
Yeah, it gets very bad at the end. Uh, I just need to say that I found the rags emojis. Hi rags. There's a little
Hello
Yay
You gents can hold long con at my house. I'll put out chips and salsa
All right
Howdy rags
It's like a plan
Also, hello. Can this dollar count as my dowry?
Oh, you're gonna have to what you what kind of doggo. Do you think I am a dollar for a dowry?
It's five five dollars. That's you know, it's something. Wow. Oh my goodness
Yeah, you're gonna appreciate that. I have to do a little better than that
Especially because you might have some stiff competition
Saving private sponge knob. Please make sponge knob e-fuck
Spongebob e-fuck
Mola, what happens if rags thinks buffy is bad and says it has sequel level writing e-fap civil war
He would be able to say that about a lot of the things that happen in buffy. In fact, um
But I doubt rags would deny the best things that happen in that show and there's one particular episode
That I would think rags would love uh for the emotional tisms
Yeah, notice notice that mauler and I kind of are using the same system and standard to judge things
And we for the most part walk away with really similar
judgments on media
That is not an accident
What do you mean nobody would ever know what we think of a thing uh based on the thing alone
It's always a surprise. It's never about things making sense or not
Um, but yeah, it wouldn't be honestly, uh if rags actually hated buffy
Even if he watched all of buffy and angel and concluded that he hated it. I'd just be like well
the whole point was to try and
uh share out the the good experiences of it, right because um
Fucking wolf got the the best experience out of it that I would have hoped he would get
He had all the field tisms from all of the biggest moments
And that's what I hope that fringy and rags will get but if they don't it's whatever it's not like
It's not like i'm showing them to validate how I think
Buffy is in terms of a quality show. It's it's more so like I want you guys to have as much fun with it as I
do and uh
talk about the many
complicated subjects it highlights
but um
I don't mind. I don't mind. Uh, if there's a lot of things that can really bother people about buffy
Specifically the world building and a lot of the plots. They're very dumb
And if rags ever gets around to watching it with me, uh, well vice versa. I mean i'll force him one day
You'll get a whole dose of that from season one and you will ask what everyone asks
How the fuck is this your favorite show and i'll be like rags. I swear season one. It's just not representative of the whole
I swear
Uh moolah you're gonna do an unbridled
Unbridled rage video for season eight episode six of game of thrones. Please say you will I am now a 50 patron member
Love your work. Thank you. Oh, wow. Very very generous. Uh
Yeah, the the plan right now is making tfa part three
Then joker praise that's still what I want to do
But obviously things can change depending on what releases at what times
Then probably tfa part four and then tacitly right now
It could possibly do the game of thrones episode after that to square off all of it
But it's going to take a while because I need to watch the whole show again
And collect every last note. I want to make about
that fucking
season
Finale because that's going to be the last ice have to say about game of thrones probably
But yeah, I do want to make that video. Um
Give it time tfa part three is going to take some time
Uh, i'm i'm getting through it. Well when we close out i'll probably talk a bit about that. Um
Just finished a full shift at work and you're still going praise be long man. Also. What's the best location to send you efap memes?
uh
So the ones I never miss are in the efap memes
Channel and discord because that gets noted like, you know, it gets the old thing
That's like there's new stuff here and I usually cycle through it so I can collect them from there
And to get them on there
You just have to get one of the mods in the discord to post it and to do that
You just need to post them in the discord. I think trash is where they can be collected
I don't remember exactly but that's that's one of the best places. Uh, the subreddit I don't typically miss
Many things in the subreddit. I still kind of do and then twitch is like
The worst place but still viable. I because I twitter notifications are really fucking annoying to filter through
um
But I I do pick up memes there as well
Oh as theos just said ping a mod in trash with your meme and it can be placed into efap memes and then it'll be
filtered for the
viewing pleasure of the public
Uh do do
I stand with rags. It's called loyalty or stupidity. Can't remember which one tism
Hmm
Anime is garbage rags is right. Kick. We've chat
kick. We've chat
The compera has spoken
the compera
creamy sheave
That's not yeah, the cream is actually john. Alice bush bush that said that
oh
That man knows his cream
Dead space is really mediocre. The combat is repetitive. The story is terrible
They blatantly copy things from re4 without doing anything new with them
And the only thing the game can do is scare you to scare you is to drop you in doom esque arenas
No, I disagree with almost all of that
I don't think the story is terrible at all. I think the story is actually one of the best parts
It's really cool. I found the story. Um, yeah, I suppose
I would have to play it again to get my references sorted, but
Um, the combat is repetitive. I don't know that I agree with that because of the amount of weapons
You can shoot yeah the amount of weapons the different kinds of enemies learning to prioritize the it's a game that really does
Managing your resources is very satisfying in that game
Absolutely. It's very satisfying game to play and do well in
Like when you play dead space and you do really well in it, it feels really good. You feel
Amazing and the whole blatantly copying things from re4 without doing anything new with them. Uh
I'd be curious what you're referring to
Yeah
I mean just like do you concede that re4 is better than it? I'd probably be like I guess but
Uh, I would say in certain aspects. Yeah, but
I almost want to feel like resident evil four
like really
Influent did a lot to influence things. Um
But I don't know they're both so good
If I had to be stuck playing one over and over again, like if I had to play through one right now over
They're both so good I
Yes, I don't know maybe dead space probably because i've played resident evil four more so I wouldn't play dead space again
Um give this to glib because rag's bad hi wags
Hello. I'm not bad though. I'm actually really um kind of fucking tits actually
End whore I hardly knew whore
I got him. I knew whore cry face
Okay
Uh glad to hear tfa part three is releasing this week
No, yeah, that's great. I'm not gonna really
Coming along it is coming along watch beaver and butt face. It's prono prono without porn
prono without porn
Beaver and butt face
Thank you guys for checking out that episode 29 rags joke that's all right
That was funny I made me laugh
Um, would you be ever ever be willing to do an efap on the old tropes versus women videos?
I know they're old but I'd like to see you guys rip into them
um
I think the the thing is they've kind of been thoroughly responded to by basically everybody. Yeah, they've been fucking dunked on to death
It's not that they'd be bad for efap. They'd be good for efap. Just
They're a bit old and I feel like they've been just done to death
It all suck easy
I would like to own either a republic or imperial tx 130 fighter tank for personal ground vehicle. Look it up
It's a sexy vehicle that was introduced in the expanded universe
All right imperial tx 130 fighter tank
Oh those things they're in um
Well, they're in a lot of star wars content. I quite like them. Yeah
Well, usually the gameplay with them is quite um
Easy to control and they're powerful and fast and mobile
Um, yeah, all right, they're like one of the clone tanks
Slave one bubba fett gotta be my favorite ship
I mean I like
uh
The ship itself in terms of a unique design, but I probably wouldn't want it myself seems very
Awkwardly designed
Do you remember slave one rags?
Yeah, the ship
Just seems strange. I don't know if i'd want it for my personal ship even though I wouldn't
I think that taking off and landing in that position all the time would be a pain in the ass
And I wouldn't want to deal with that shit
I want a ship that's very livable and comfortable and has a lot of
You know, it just isn't a pain in the butt
What do you guys think of future armor, uh pretty great I think yeah liked what i've seen when it got resurrected
The comeback like set of
Movies or whatever it were like the longer episodes. They were pretty cool
Then it started to falter a little bit. I think it's last season's like not too great
But the finale tied it all together. It has quite a good ending that show
Um, but yeah, like the first four seasons or whatever there's some strong shit and bender is one of the best
characters bender's fucking hilarious
Hashtag bender wins. Um, hey rags. Hey
If you had to choose one us state and its people not to be deleted out of existence, which one would you choose?
What does that mean though if what happens to america if every other state is deleted
It turns into an ocean he's like that is one
Significantly powerful island for a moment. Actually it wouldn't be because america would lose all of its resources
All gone
Uh, probably just go with the biggest state, right?
Why the fucking why would I save california second biggest state?
Um
Maybe texas
Texars
Um, yeah, maybe texas
Because I want to save a lot of people but
Like I don't want to california nation
Yeah, that'll be america at that point you're fucked no matter what like almost everyone's dying I guess I guess uh,
I guess texas
There you go. I don't know
It's a good mix of
Uh, yeah, I i'm gonna go with texas
Efap porno spoof where they review other parodies
Is
Oh like the efap porno would be people reviewing porno like this I guess how that would work
Uh, can I get explanations slash origins slash meanings of gedelb something about chickens kick?
Oh, you want explanations of all of these?
So gedelb is the parody, uh show that I run once per year stands for game developers essentials lessons book
Um, the next one is something about chickens cosmic chicken that will be originates on jay's channel stream
Where we were just discussing the lore of the universe
It began with the cosmic chicken that's quick kick j
I don't even know how kick jay got started
I feel like it just it was like a bleed over from kick v and just people just started saying kick j
I have no idea what the origin of that is specifically
Uh, hi rags is rags super chad to efap saying hi rags
Yeah
Uh, the spiders is um, they can tell the future
um
Use of the word tism
Tism is a is a versatile word that can be used for everything. It can replace anything anywhere. It's amazing
And er is racist. I mean that's just ask the world about that one. You'll get all kinds of answers
Some very very bead
Yeah, all this stuff's on the the website by the way
They actually add a log it pretty efficiently and they even have like time stamps and episode links all this stuff. It's kind of amazing
That is nuts
Regags video when yes
Uh, hopefully soon i'd get around to it
When I get around to it, I think you guys will like the clone wars, but oh boy
Someone looks very generous saying the show gets way better after seasons one through two
Uh, there's so much tism to come. Oh my
I will say though she has great moments in the clone wars
At least she's doing doing good tism. That's all right. Always good to see she doing well. I mean that man
He's got some ambition
I hope he clones himself and lives forever
Um
Uh
If you had one superpower, what would it be and why?
Time travel
The power to have any power I want at any time
Yeah, fuck you
Time travel would be fucking great. Yeah, this is a complicated question because I would actually
I need to know the rules on what constitutes a power
Um, and what my limit like what if you just said, you know the power to live happily forever
Like you know, I mean so but I think the question is probably more like invisibility flying super strength that sort of thing
um
I mean, yeah, if you want to go with time travel, they probably allow that one
What about if yeah time travel is super fucking op though, um, how about
What if like you could only
You could go back in time, but only like five seconds
You only go back in time but by five seconds
Yeah, I would and that that would be my power
Oh, so do you mean like it would essentially function as just a quick error correction
A little restart. Yeah, like a like a quick save quick load thing where if you want you can go back five
Hmm. Yeah, I mean you fucking know everything there would be lots of awesome things that could happen as a result
Uh still this is it is pretty op, but I think we're allowed to have that one
I'm not sure honestly. I'm trying to think of like all the what is the best one. That one's pretty good
I
Think though i'm surprised you didn't go for more than just five seconds though
Well, I well, I was just saying because if I would just have straight up fucking time travel if that was the case
But even if that was a restriction that I just created I still think that would be crazy
Useful and I would want it. Yeah, uh
I'm trying to think if that would be the most useful it might be i'm trying to think of a cool conventional
Superpowers
Oh, no. Yeah, and if just increasing it to like something like a minute would be crazy
Maybe like the power to heal that'd be pretty fucking great. Wouldn't it like?
Yeah, they don't touch people and get rid of their
And obviously yourself too. It would apply that you could just heal yourself of whatever and then everyone else and
That could be really good for the world
There you go, there's our answers
uh
Have you considered the power to clone dinosaurs for an amusement park and have it work, okay
Have it work. Okay, that's the important bit. Yeah
Uh, have you considered making a tlj lover type gudelb?
Technically, that's kind of a video i'm releasing this year just for tros. So, you know
I suppose the answer to that is yes
Reviewing porno now that's soldering
Soldering. Yeah, boy. All right, that's stroke
Mula, I demand you answer my u.s. State deletion question. I would have deferred to rags. So I guess I would pick texas too
I mean, I don't know enough about those stanky states to be able to give a good answer as to why
Texas people are nice every time I go and I will wait my stipulation is rags moves there before we engage with this
Yeah, yeah, if I was going to be like, uh, hold that thought i'm gonna get my car
Uh as a doggo, do you still not like beards and why?
I don't really like beards in terms of like, uh
Sexual attractiveness like they look fine just for an in a handsome aspect
But I don't think they're sexy
Um part of it has to do with like smooching and stuff
Don't like that on my face, you know touching my face things of that nature. Um
I'm just not I guess i'm not into in that regard like hairy burly men
Just just on the face especially
Other places i'm finding is, huh?
Yeah, I mean I do but
I just I don't like beards. I just I don't like the way they
Feel on my face and not really the way that they look and a lot of the times
Maybe my um, maybe my impression of them would be much more positive if people kept up with their
facial hair a whole lot better
Consistently, but as we see on youtube all the time, it's like people with long hair. They do not maintain their bodies
And it looks shit. They don't wash their hair and it looks all greasy and stringy and they don't trim their beard
So it looks all nasty and a little
Theo said course rough irritating it gets everywhere
Um
There's a clone wars episode where r2 goes to a spa
That sounds better than the sequel trilogy just saying yeah, i'd rather watch r2 in the spa than watch luke get fucking murdered
Uh female robots give him a massage. It's so weird
All right
Sounds interesting
Uh chat, please press f in chat for uh for rah. I miss him
or
sad face
for rah
rah
Uh kick v is from warsky's channel when sargon and sticks debated richard spencer
It's funny without richard spencer. They may not be a kick j meme
There you go. J. You kick j came from richard spencer
Uh, john, alice bush bush said f I think that's for rah
In the super chat, uh wanted to give you guys some money tisms for all the swag daddy
You provided me i've been studying for chemistry for chemistry exam all day and efap helps
All right
stuff
Hope we're not too distracting because I know chemistry can be rather complicated
With all them compounds and those things and periodic tables number magics and matha
Mathematic
mathematics
rags like some feminine
No, not necessarily at all. Just not
Beards that much like I I don't mind some short well trimmed
groomed facial hair at all. I don't mind that
um, but like beards
Not a not a fan. I I they can be very handsome, but I don't find them sexually
Uh, rah drank my gay cream then died of aids rip sad face
Yeah, that's
ironic
Uh give money make long high wags
And that doesn't just super chats
moving over to
the stream
laberes
Uh, let me see. What was the last thing we read on this one?
stormlords
do do do do
Um, I don't remember I should really make it it's really confusing because they can be submitted whenever super chats have to be submitted while
We're live. I guess so I can tell where we left off
Oh, welcome till dl. That's gotta be something we haven't read yet
uh
Do
Oh, there we go. Okay. I think this is from the u.s
Hey rags mauler and guests. The next time sargon is in you should
Abso-tismally review the red letter medias. Uh
Review of starship troopers. Holy fuck the fucking tisms. Oh my oh my god a gov that'll give you a choice to serve or not
What fascists?
Um
Yeah, again, I I mean it would be cool to have that conversation with them
I would like to just ask them a couple questions about how it all works and see how they
Deal with it. We went over it with that stream
Like people were like that's clearly what uh his intention was as a director and writer and it's like but that's not what's presented in
The film like he kind of screwed that up
With like there's a lot of elements to it that are not very fascistic. Um
In fact, didn't we like come down to things like?
I'd be curious if there were any. Um
I I would I honor I
Really like to actually live in that system. I think it'd be very good
I think it would seems to be like it works really well, uh seems very
Fair for everybody. I I like it a lot. The only good bug is a dead bug
Yeah, but that's just like our world too. Yeah, we don't like cockroaches
They're the worst and except when we manipulate it so that they can outdo another problem
Like when you got an infestation of something and you're like, oh if you release these things it'll counter them all
It's like sometimes bugs can be used that way right bugs are cool. Sometimes maybe
I I read a thing on twitter about how they're trying to
Synthesize like cream from bugs now instead of from dairy or something
Maybe bugs have the answer to our future and we become the bugs from start of troopers. How about that? Hmm?
Also
ER submitted his own meme
Would you like to to pull that up ranks
All right, well
I I see it. I see it, but I have I've I don't know. I you've seen it mauler
I've seen it. There's some rags bad people are outraged because you haven't seen all of it in totality
I see all of it
Oh, yeah, I see every single episode even though the the stuff i've seen is fucking abysmal
I gotta see all the episodes before I can say it's bad. You really just want to you want to wind up chat today
Don't you?
I don't know. I I
I don't care. I
I think that people need to understand someone else's opinion on anime means so little to me
I don't even think I can put into words how little I think about your anime opinions
They said it's not anime though rags. So now you've really done it is it is absolutely anime. How is it not?
I don't know. I don't know what qualifies anime. I don't know. I don't know how it works
Like because I know that I remember from er's video
he like has to clarify whether or not it's counted as anime because
Is it does it have to be created in a particular place?
Animated in particular. I don't fucking I don't really care
Like i'm just like I don't know if it's categorized that way or not. Just tell me if it is or not. I don't care
Like I don't have i'm not on any team for that one
That's not something we should probably care about I just uh
It's just funny because people are getting upset whether or not you consider it an anime. It's like, I don't know is it
Apparently there's a big debate about that theo just tell me the answer is it yes or no
Yeah, i've seen a terrible things
I can't believe
I have seen terrible terrible things. I'm shocked that based on what i've seen people like it
Maybe there is incredible
Golden perfection hidden away and I haven't seen it yet. Sure. I can believe that maybe
But it must be pretty fucking good to outweigh the horrible tisms i've seen
Maybe i'm just holding it to the same standard that I would hold everything else
Apparently it's not anime. Okay, fine. Fine. It's not anime. What do you mean? It's not and of course it is
Well, well, how would you define anime then versus a cartoon?
Well, that's a start. Well a versus a cartoon. It's a specific cartoon based on the style and the mannerism
The tropes that are included in it. It's like a genre in a way. It's like how you would define a genre
I guess i'm not sure how to define it
I just assume it has to I think people usually define it by it has to come from a particular area of the planet
I don't know man. I don't i'm not that invested in this. That's why I don't really
I just want to make sure i'm getting it right and it's apparently you're not supposed to call it an anime
But do people are people okay with me calling it a cartoon then or no, I don't know what they'll be like
No, it's not a cartoon. Yeah, I feel like i'm gonna piss someone off. I call it a cartoon
I'm just like it's like cartoon. Would you rather us call it anime or a cartoon?
Specifically a a movie about airbenders meant for children
A cartoon about fantasy
element wizards
Designed for children. How about that? Is that gonna rile up chat even more? I just want to press their buttons now
Oh, you you've been pressing them you go. I know and the in the you've seen five second clips. They're full of shows
Like yeah, oh, yeah five that's what we watched smaller we watched five second clips
That's what we watched. Yep. Mm-hmm. They were all just five second clips. Mm-hmm
You know what the the the stupid
centipede buffalo is dumb and the flying monkey is dumb and all of the it's in it's
stupid
and there
So
The next one says I want to use teal deer's urethra like a silly straw
Oh my goodness gracious. Welcome teal deer and welcome back critical drinker
I watched event horizon based on your recommendation and wanted to thank you. Yeah, there you go. Yeah, that's good stuff
Uh, also high rags and moebles. Hello
Someone needs to make an edit of mauler as michael scott from the office reacting to the batwham and train scene
No, god, no batwoman train scene
Like they're not even trying to have us leave it that was one of those like reality is being broken right now stop
Reality is pulling apart. No
uh
Also when they referenced mr. Robot in the episode I almost had an aneurysm they are not worthy to even speak its name
Hi rag
Hello
If emergence aka metamorphosis aka
1770 13 was a movie made by some european director in black and white debuted at can
It would be hailed as a masterpiece of tragic storytelling and the perils girls face in our society sig the massive
debate
Hey, I don't know what to do with that. Yeah, I don't know. I haven't seen that
so I mean i'm absolutely
Ready to believe that indie films and you know smaller stuff that people don't know about can you know?
You wonder if this was shown to a big audience if it just had the screen space and a lot of
You know big blockbusters had you know, would they be huge?
Cultural phenomenons and I think a lot of them would
but
What would you guys think of a kantuku prequel film
But good with him training a young qui-gon showing his grow growing discontent with the republic's methods his relationship with palpatine
And eventually turning into darth tyranus prior to episode one irags
Hello, i'd be up for that if it was good. I'm up for any star wars content. If it's good. That's the problem. It's like
Could you could you watch it?
All be bad like do you guys like a charger movie could be good
If this is this is what we're getting. Yeah, what are they gonna do ruin jar jar's character?
No, I mean they buy it actually
But they probably won't
I don't think
It would be certainly more difficult
They'd probably find a way they'd be the only people who could manage to destroy jar jar's character
It would be legitimate jar jar fans upset like that is not what jar jar would do
Uh more ammo for mando debate part two you probably noted this but just to be sure
Episode seven ig 88 is left to defend the ship and does nothing to help
Uh quill quill. I can't remember what his actual name is spelled k-u-l-i-l
We k-u-l-i-l sorry k-u-i-l
quill quill quill
Quill quill
Right outside the door episode eight ig 88 catches up to the scout troopers on foot to save baby yoda shake my head
Yeah, I don't know there's many things that's uh
kind of
Yeah, it's a bit
Yeah, there was the when uh
The ship how do you get back so quick? It's kind of a lot of questions a lot of questions
A lot of questions hail all my resonance mongers of the homoerotic fandom big idioms. Oh my god
Hello have all of you seen uh, henry cabell's
Okay, ville's uh comments on the toxic fandom. He's one of us
Yeah, man is from one of his interviews with which is uh, yeah, he's a cool dude. Good stuff. He seems like a really cool guy
He he could have joined the he could have done the cool elite thing and just dunked on fans, but he didn't
And I really do appreciate him doing that. That's a very nice thing to see from somebody
He's very down to earth. Very very approachable
Example of restrictions helping creativity the best written time travel films are low budget primus 7000 coherence 50 g
Time crimes 2.6 million predestination 9 million
Triangle 12 million. I remember triangle
When you can't splidge on cgi and period sets the writing becomes more important
Um, correct. Oh wait, is this person saying triangle was good?
Because uh, funnily enough. I watched feyless review triangle and he kind of ripped it apart. Triangle makes no sense
Um, but it was a fun movie if I remember correctly, um in terms of a time travel tism
Surviving being cut in half isn't even an argument because that is a disney retcon as much as palp's living is
Oh, yeah, I guess. Oh wait, is it though? I thought that they had darthmore survived before disney bought star wars
It's not necessarily
I want to say yes
Either way disney's made it official and plus even if it wasn't like
Like I stand by the fact that clearly first off one of them is possible to survive. So that's all you need
Vaporization compared to having your bottom half cut off. It's like very different
Lol, I read some shitty fan fictions about hux ending up pregnant with kyla's love child
And even those did a better job of portraying them in a consistent and fitting manner. That's how bad cat it is fair enough
Uh, what the fuck is he talking about vader big luke's father was literally a goddamn retcon
I I think he was trying to say that we've
Father was a retcon. Um
What did it was a retcon in the sense that they didn't intend it until they got to empire
But as long as it doesn't fuck with anything
Yeah, it didn't contradict previously established information
except the line from obi-wan being the
Your father is you know
What a dead and stuff, but I still think that lines up completely that obi-wan would consider anakin dead and that vader's all that's left
Yeah
and if you think that that's a problem then the whole
Ben being one person and kylo being the other person or that then that flies out the window, too
So you can't have one but not the other if you follow under that category
Uh watched knives out last night the political commentary was hilarious not too heavy-handed felt like the grandson should have defended himself against the alt-right troll
Thing by saying listen tlj was not that great. Okay
If tlj exists in this universe, we're gonna check that out soon. I think that is that is something we want to do
Uh rags butter my biscuit until it crumbles and we have a tummy nut together
Mm tummy nut. Yeah. Oh, I like that tummy nut
Have one of those people love the ot so much. There are groups dedicated to
Despecializing those movies and turning the originals into hd. Yep. They're the visions. I use in my videos the
despecialized ones
people really don't like
The meddling, you know
roof in some of the changes are totally fine. Some of the changes are just like what were you why?
Damn just woke up and missed the whole stream
Well, you know, you got a little bit left. You got a little bit left
Uh roof hang on there roof in peace raw
And yeah, I guess so
roofing in heaven
Hey rags and mauler. Hello. Hello as a senior citizen 49
What is tfa and defined? What is tfa?
That is the force awakens
um and define tism like I said earlier tism
Is a systems like the word smurf
Is it
Yeah
Oh shit from the I thought you meant like how we use smurf. I was like, we don't really
No, it's like how smurf sees the word smurf. Yeah
It's just kind of whatever it needs to be
Yep, tism is the most flexible word in the english language. Well from the efap dictionary anyway
Um, thanks, uh, go watch legends of the galactic heroes
I have no idea what that is
Legends of the galactic heroes probably some shitty anime. It's an anime avatar
With its flying buffalo. Oh my goodness. You're upsetting the chat again. Look at them. That's all right. I don't care
Uh in beehoven's
Federation you need military service in order to get a license to have babies if you have a non-military family you have no descendants
Is that true don't recall that ever
That was one of the things we were asking in the stream, right? That's the europe. That's not the hind line universe
Is that here right? But if we're going because rico's parents
weren't in the military and they had him and they were like rich high class citizens
I'd have to watch it again
But I remember I was talking about this in the stream and I think people concluded that
They said service guarantees citizenship, but it wasn't clear exactly the many ways you could acquire citizenship from the movie
It doesn't explain but in heinlein's book, it's there. There's these civil versions of it
It's not just military service
Um by rags you're done for oh, no
nope
All animation i'm a very resilient doggo
All animation is anime spongebob is anime spongebob is anime. I mean if that's an anime so
Yeah, there you go
This one just says rags wrong
Uh, that is not correct. Uh rags is correct
Check my meme and efap podcast talk quick
This is probably podcast talk quick there's probably a lot there. How do we know which one's yours?
Let's see
Who said who what's the name of the person who said that
Uh creamy sheave
creamy sheave
Uh, let's see
Here let me post it for you
Oh
I
Agree that's perfectly balanced because the last meme was about how you were wrong
Well, the meme about me being wrong is wrong. So how about that? How about you take that to the bank and smoke it?
um
I can't take rags opinion 100 because he said he's only seen clips maula has way more credit bill cred credit table
Uh, all right
No, no, no, no, let's let's leave it there. Let's leave it there. All right, so mauler. Tell me about avatar
Well, i was gonna finish the super chat it says because I know he's been watching it with wolf
Oh, we can we well, we can't bring wolf in but wolf would agree with it
You'll have to trust us that wolf agrees with us on
You
Listen, okay. Listen, right? I know y'all ain't ready for our fucking anime ass opinions on your cartoon your chinese cartoon
I heard that was the most triggering thing
chinese cartoon
Chat said call of chinese cartoons. It's really triggering. So uh, we
We can go wait rags. I'll will will once we finish up all the super chats. We're very close
We will leave them with a bombshell. Okay
It
It'll be the it'll be the talk of the town until the next
Efap that'll that'll be what happens everyone's like, oh, I won't trust rags on it
I'll trust mauler even though their opinions pretty much line up pretty much all the time because they use the same methodology to determine objective
Quality and things over some reason which was bull or better
Oh, oh if you thought if you thought he would save you if you thought that you could go to him and be like
No, no what what rags is saying? It's not true, right mauler. It's it's just a joke
He doesn't really mean it, right? I can I can
Oh sweet sweet summer child. Oh, no, no, no
No, no, no, no. No, there's literally there's only like ready. There's only like nine left
I'll get through them. Then we'll just give them a quick update on the works coming
Yeah, and uh, and then we'll just give
Just a little bit of info just to let just to clarify. All right, so I want to I want to wrestle some jimmies
Uh, it's okay rags. I stand with your take on avatar the anime and your decision to save the people's republic of texas
Kick er. No, there you go
Two w's for me
Um
You need to cover venom's lord the rings film rings
Need to cover venom's lord of the rings films video
I think was that the one they mentioned earlier
Uh, I watched the first 10 minutes. It's really bad says there's no good characters in poor writing. Oh my god
The lord of the rings
Poor writing for look you've better had some you better have some arguments ready strong ass references to the poor writing
um
Thoughts on hayden ghost at the end of episode six
I don't know. It's just I can't make any like criticism from
Like consistency. It seems to me that the ghosts just look the way that
Can we say the ghosts look the way they want to I don't know
I don't know or is it are they asking if it's
Something we like just the ghost
Being there like like visual ghosts. Well, let's answer this there in spirit
Let's answer this to the both questions
I think this would be asking so first being
Do you personally like the fact that they updated episode six to have hayden christiansons ghost there instead of the original version of vader?
uh
No, yeah, i'm not a fan of that
does it have any
like fuck ups in terms of consistency upon
The i the laws of force ghosts and stuff would be like, I guess not. I don't know. I don't really know
If it lets you come back as whatever
You want to?
Then I don't know why his obi-wan been man this whole time. I know the meta answer but
What why wouldn't it be ewan mcgregor why wouldn't it be handsome strapping
Him yeah, I mean, yeah, I just I don't like that they switched I don't think they needed to at all
I don't know why he did that but lucas wicks
In miss
We can do it like any change is good no matter what it is
All my changes are improvements clearly
Mola, have you seen belated medias? What if the prequels were good trilogy?
Uh, I believe I did when they came out. That's that came out a while ago
Uh, he comes off a bit pretentious and I don't agree with everything he says
But I think it's a good vehicle to discuss the good and bad of the prequels
Uh for a more low-key efap like 75
Uh
Well, I mean we'll probably be able to talk about the prequels soon enough in the future when we cover the cosmonaut video
That's not too far away. Yeah, uh, it shouldn't be
But the the belated media one like he just he comes up with like he tries to alter the prequels to
Make the story a bit more fleshed out. I think character wise and stuff. I I
I'd have to watch these videos again, but I remember thinking they were neat in terms of ideas
Uh, I like it, but I still think rags is funny ha ha uwu
ha ha uwu
Christ i'm late and I thought rags was talking about the movie avatar not avatar the last airbender
That's the greatest cartoon ever made you fuck why? Oh, oh, no
No, no, no
Me thinks you are not you not being objective
What is your vision towards animation?
I mean you love the marvel movies and those are cartoons with live action segments sprinkled in
I'm not fucking a version towards animation
I guess because
The whole does he think that when I say anime, I mean all animated things
Uh, if spinge boss an anime then is spongenob a hentai
spongenob
Spongenob spongenob
Um, I like rags, but this ain't it chief
Damn, thanks. It's just getting annihilated. Oh, it is. Oh, it is
I never said maula would save it
But at least he can give us direct references for why he doesn't like it instead of spigging just to trigger people
We should shall we get some because i've just been triggering people
I got two. I got two left. Okay, so yeah, if I remember correctly texas doesn't have constitutional carry so they can get f-worded law
Is that true what no way I think that's open carry state
Um
Yeah, as of 2016 holders of a texas concealed handgun license or
Ltc, which i'm not actually sure what that is are able to openly carry handguns in the same places that allowed concealed carry with some exceptions
Uh shoulder belt hose holster existing concealed handgun license. So he can carry with a valid license
um
Let's see
I
Can seal care for without a license in the case of disaster evacuations after natural disasters and stuff apparently you can carry without a
license
Um, yeah, I had to look at some stuff
Here, but I think they're pretty they got some of the better gun laws. Um
Da da da da
Criminal offenses
I wonder if they let you carry. I wonder if there's like a sword
New law to allow open carry of swords and machetes in texas. Hell. Yeah now you can carry swords. Absolutely. What an amazing
That's some fucking amazing. You should always you should be allowed to carry around a sword
daggers spears and machetes
Um nice
You tell them rag is
I guess that's in reference to avatar. I don't know
Just tuning in and decided to start from the beginning. So I gotta say what the fuck rags who keeps the phone in their back pocket
I don't know. I think it's just a
I i'm not sure sometimes I just do it and sometimes I don't but I usually do
Let's keep them in my pocket, I don't know is just something I do. I don't normally think about where it is
Sometimes i'll put it in my front pocket though
Uh maula any thoughts on alternating which is read out first, uh, the super chats or the stream labs maybe even
Uh number efaps super chats first and odd stream labs are first that way there's less stream labs
So only the end super chats would get missed versus missing all of stream labs sometimes. Love y'all
Uh, we well, the only times that things are getting missed was when we had the overflow. We should be all right now
For a while and like I said, it's just more pragmatic for me to do super chats first because that's where the majority of messages come in
um
I just I just think this is the best method. That's all
Because it seems to be
From what I can tell five accounts that come through stream labs. Um versus
We're looking at like
You know potential like it's in the many many hundreds that come in through stream labs would get done a lot quicker
I mean this this this the idea is that it all gets done in blocks
So instead of like mixing them in or I mean I could try doing them first
But then if any more come in do I do them as they come in or do I do them after super chats at that point?
I don't imagine you'd get many as you did them
Either way. Oh, well i've been so since we I started reading out the uh stream labs ones
We've got one two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen additional to do now
Oh my goodness the stream labs ones. Yeah, I assume that when you start to read out the ones that people have sent in
They'll be like ah, so if I send them now, they'll probably be read faster, you know
So maybe that encourages them to send more in
Either in either case. It's just like I don't know
The most efficient way of doing is all i'm looking for really
Um
But yeah, like I said, there's no way to do it perfectly. I think it's it's uh,
Anything would just be nice if they could all just come into the same
Big thing, but uh, either way we're gonna be able to get through all of them, right? How far are we going, right?
My god, i'm we're at nine and a half hours. I don't think we would have been able to do another video on top of uh
No, that's the thing these take up a lot of uh
Rags quick make another avatar take for more super chats
um
The combat is really shit. Oh my god
Yeah, the fights are terrible too. If you like that because of the the you think the fights are cool
Then look you can't criticize
The throne room fight from the last jedi and then say that the fights from avatar are good because if you do then you're being
Inconsistent you should be ashamed of yourself. Thank god. You are gonna make some enemies today
That's all right. I just want to I want to make people angry and upset
uh, I know you said you didn't want to
Uh streamlabs people feeling shafted
So I thought that might be a solution since I know going back and forth based on delivery time would be a tism
Uh, love you all either way. I just thought I would give the suggestion higher x
Hello, I think we'll be fine as long as I get to all of them in each stream going forward
The overflow is uh, probably not going to happen again. Hopefully as long as I think we just need to make sure we
stop content between
As in video content between five and six hours around there
We should be able to get through all super chats at that point
Before the cap kicks in star wars episode 10 the new order rains. They have conquered the galaxy with 80s british synth pop
All right
um
There's a video on marvel entertainment's youtube channel called captain marvel tldr. It's
234 long and it features the guardians of the galaxy and star lord's new dad
Jason or j dash sun
Plus aliens are mining vibranium the fuck you guys need to watch it on stream
What is that captain marvel's tldr?
Star lord's new evil dad jason
I have no idea what lord's new evil dad jason. I mean it will
Evilist of death names. I will have a look at what that's possibly referring to
Uh after stream probably
The reason warcraft 3 tos thing is so bad is a you waive the moral rights to your own custom creation
Meaning blizzard doesn't even mention you and b they own and make 100 of any revenue a small percent split with credit would be totally reasonable
There you go, I mean there's a reason why everyone's pissed at it right lots of reasons I imagine actually
Including them rags. I work at an electronics repair store and because of corona virus halting shipments
We are rapidly losing business because we cannot get parts for it in for repairs
And reports have told us we may be waiting until april. The new consoles may even be delayed
Yeah, the corona virus could be uh
Call some issues for a little bit
Well, I remember uh seeing a thread talking about how certain islands shouldn't they be locking up by now?
And someone was saying like you don't understand locking out like
The world from your island has like drastic economic results that it's almost worthwhile to risk corona virus
Even getting like a guaranteed infection if you can just remain open and maintain your part in, you know
Global trade it's really fascinating how much everything gets affected when something like this happens
Um
Moira, I re-watched Jurassic park over christmas for the first time in many years and I found a lot of the characters were consistently retarded
In order for the plot to happen. I was getting big my client is insane vibes. Am I objectively wrongtisms?
I just give me references. I suppose you could be right
From what I remember most people are uh, unless you're talking about like for example the guy who runs to the toilet
To hide from the t-rex like the not the smartest decision ever
Um, there's a couple things that rely on people being a little bit idiotic
I will I will happily concede that but I guess he thought he'd be safe if he hid in a place
I don't know what the reference might be
Um, I have a mental picture of two star destroyers passing each other
The first ship is full of old uptight prunes of the empire
The second star destroyer is upside down with all the young officers and they're looking out the window dabbing as they pass by
And high regs
Hello
Hashtag not all slitherins. They aren't bad traits are ambitious shrewd cunning strong leaders and achievement oriented
Merlin was a slitherin in universe sad when a whole group is made to look bad by one terrible person like the nazis with movie bobbit
Um, yeah, no, uh rags did read out the traits
Eventually, um, I was I was like memeing that they're the evil people
Hi rags
Hello
Enjoy a rooster in your donkey cat. Also, give me the secret to your power. Also have cool dollar numbers. Also. Hi rags
Hello
Secrets are my powers. I can't tell you the secret to my powers. Yeah, I just can't everybody
Should have known that
And some origins that should not have been forgotten were lost history became legend legend became myth and for two and a
Half-thousand faps the memes passed out of all knowledge
That is the fate of efap memes eventually
Hi rags
Hello
Enjoy. This is literally the same one. Enjoy rooster at your donkey cat
Also, give you the secret to your power. Also have cool dollar numbers. Also. Hi rags. Why though? Hello
yay
Uh, would you rather one you can fly but you can make
You can fly but you make a really loud mosquito buzzing sound or two you can run at super speed
But perception is that everything is frozen and you are jogging around at a normal pace
Well, what's the downside of the second one I guess the
I don't really think that is a downside because like yeah
How would I be able to conceive of moving super fast? Anyway, wouldn't I give me a splitting headache?
Well, if you were able to move around super fast, I and I assume without any ill effect
Of court to to the perception
Like you can't be you can't move super fast, but
Be moving at normal speed while everything's frozen
Like you would have to freeze the perception of the people around you for that to make sense, but that's not really how it works
Like you would be super quick to normal people they wouldn't all of a sudden have everything super slow except for you
Is that what they're trying to say the
That there when you move super quick
Everything else around you perceives things extremely slowly and you're the only person moving at normal speed
Um, I guess at that point it's almost time travel
Time travel
I mean, that's essentially it's if if it's it's just a matter of perception to them because no extra time actually passes
It just says that the perception of other people essentially changes and flying would be cool that mosquito loud buzzing sound probably wouldn't be though
Be quiet, I mean especially if you're flying far away from people, you know
You won't be able to
Speak anyway, would you?
I I think I'd go number two myself number two
Yeah, it's sad say so because I guess it implies that
Does it mean that you have really?
Really super fast like reflexes too if you can super speed run
Because I would like to have that I could use that every day. Yeah, let's go with that. Why not?
I think I'm flying would be cool. I don't know
Can you give me a video essay checklist I need to tick um
You can actually find the bingo card. I think that someone made on the efap.me website. Uh, if that's what you're referring to
but if you if you need a video essay checklist, just you know all of the standard stuff like
appeal to themes whenever something doesn't make sense, uh, call in some kind of
historic figure
And reference a quote from them that in some way
Connects to the larger point you're trying to make. Um
Have random clips that don't necessarily have anything to do with what you're saying
Have uh visuals that contradict what you're saying
Uh, make sure you screw up references
You know all these sorts of things. Like I said, there's a lot of them in that uh, just do all the wrong things
Put sponge knob and rag smug smiling in the thumbnail
I mean possibility for the how I feel
Ragu will you tell the plebs how the simpsons is the greatest anime of our generation?
The simpson is the greatest anime of our generation. It tells the story of
different characters and
Their motivations and how they do the things that they do despite their shortcomings and how people use their traits and
Their ingenuity to overcome problems and how a community can resolve its issues
It has a very bright vibrant art style and the jokes that are
are are all a super super duper funny sauce and
Um, I mean really what do you need after that? What do you need after that? Just writing is just boom. It's on point
The characters are so great. So lovable despite all their flaws so well written
Um, also does mola have a mooch I am hoping to get it together. I'm still getting it together
It's taking a while to get all the designs i'm looking for. Um
Perhaps in the future
uh
Give me give me some months maybe one maybe more
uh
This is creamy sheaves saying rags is right
Please I am right. I am right er versus rags dawn of tisms
Uh, I high rags goes on muzzle
On my rags goes on muzzle
Um, ah, so you're deliberately being pricky about this
Not me
Lol, I I I see people getting very angry about it and it nurtures me it's it it fills my life force meter
Um
Lol last jedi ros and batwoman have really taken a toll on rags mental state
I mean they make uh
You've really pissed people like that's the no chase was right people
Fucking get they get so attached about their stupid chinese cartoons
It's fun to rile them up
Especially when I could just go and pull up these clips and be like see this this is fucking dog shit
And if you ignore it you're being inconsistent
All right
You could always call avatar weeb garbage
It's just a flu bro
Rags what's your primary complaint about avatar the last airbender or at least a main point?
uh, the
Fighting that i've seen has been really really bad powers have been extremely inconsistent to the point where how they use their powers
is
Is inconsistent so that a plot can occur so that events can happen that wouldn't otherwise happen
If their power that they're actually consistent with what their powers could do. I think the writing's terrible
Uh, this then I don't like a lot of anime tropes
Uh, it's not really not a fan don't think it's a very good show based on what i've seen
Maybe the super masterful stuff one day I will witness but
Oh as it stands really not impressed do not see what people see
Long man quick throw rags off appa
nope
nope, uh, nope
You constantly tell us to use references and examples and then where are yours rags give us examples instead of being reductive with no evidence
You're coming across this biggie. I know you can do better
I can't handle my my examples. You can't handle my exam
They would blow your mind every single one of the many I have
Uh, why is willow bad asking for a friend that would be
From memory, it's just I fucking i'd have to rewatch it's been too long now. I think it's been like a year
Yeah, um, uh, what year what year is it like 90?
Yeah, I want to say 90s. Let me give it a checkeroo
Bill because I have not seen it because i've heard everything from it's bad to it's good to it's a timeless classic
1988
1988
Ron howard box office was 110 million. Was that a flop?
Let's see
Willow box office. I guess I can go to reception
Or whatever on the wikipedia page the box office
Um
It was it was not the blockbuster hit insiders had anticipated it was not however a financial flop either
It made a profit because of strong international home video and television sales
So it didn't lose money. There you go
Which is more than many things could say
Yeah, uh, I i'm just not a good source for why I think we talked about it on past defabs
When I I would have been able to remember more of it, but at this point
I really can't even think of what my issues were with it anymore. The it's failed to remain in my brain
What was that sorry, do you not like little people does it have a suspicious amount of midgets in it
There's a suspicious amount of women in it
It's just a matter of women and midgets. Yeah female midgets. That's the big that's the big ano
Rags please cite the bad fight you're talking about
The bad citations you can't handle them. I told you you can't you can't handle it
I've seen you people so far in this chat. I've seen people in the discord
You can't handle it. You see just just the idea that it's bad is blowing so many people's minds
If I were to prove it with my examples and to point it out and to make them watch this stuff
I'm afraid i'm afraid for what they might do
And I don't want anyone to get banned from youtube
I don't want anyone to get banned from discord and I don't want to be held liable for what happens
When weaves find out that their chinese cartoon isn't really that good
Um, the amount of people don't know rags is at the wind up
Wind up wind up. Yeah, sorry, um wind up
sponge sponge knob
Wind up by not giving references is a bit concerning
Oh my god king of the hill is the best slice of animu life
King of the hill is the only good anime
That's some good quality american anime right there
Maybe classic country values
Maybe anime should be a banned efap topic
Like
Maybe I I would I mean if we decide if we decided that we would stop
About bad things then we can talk about star wars or batwoman. You can talk about any of that stuff
So I say i'm fine with it
Uh
Rags no more chase he's turned you to the dark
No, I hate anime
I think you might have us confused. I I don't like anime. I don't like chinese cartoons
Uh, that's what that's what chat said to call him because it
chinese
the coronavirus
animations
Uh rags you're doing fine chase was an actual idiot. Oh my god
I rat slaps hand and no that dog is aggressively untrustworthy and baiting superchats. No, go get my gun old yellow needs a nap
my good
I ain't I ain't making nothing. I have no idea why anyone just that or insinuate that i'm so much in earnest
Clarification everyone sees you zip past but for you you are jogging along and it's boring. Sorry if that was confusing fun
So I just so I run at normal speed for me like my perception is that I run normal one
This is kind of what I mean
Your power at that point down around me your power at that point wouldn't be that you're running fast
It would be that time slows down whenever you decide you want it to
It would essentially be like time slows down around you
But like momentum and inertia would be you know a certain way and you would get used to that. So
If that's the case, that's actually even better which because that means that you're able your ability to perceive and react to things
Is super quick
So think of like how good you'd be at video games and stuff like you'd be
Unstoppable your reaction time and the the amount of time your windows to do things would be just crazy
Yeah, you'd probably be able to get a career going
probably be
like almost legit unstoppable
Like you would pretty much never miss a shot because everything in the game would be moving so much slower
And you have so much more time to react to it and think about things. It'd be you'd be
unstoppable
Fun super speed is your reflexes and perception of sped up
So you feel like you're zooming without losing ability to process info. Yeah, I still out of those two choices would probably go with the um
The speed one
The speed one I would if anything that explanation makes it better
For reasons I just highlighted
Having never seen avatar. This is highly entertaining. Also. Hi rags. Also mola. Have you seen the wind in the willows?
1995 movie when you were younger, what did you think?
Let me have a look sounds familiar
Sounds familiar to me too. I don't think i've ever seen it though
The wind
In the willows. I feel like I have seen that
but like when I was a kid and
I just don't remember a lot from it
Oh, is that the ones with the uh, I know with I i've heard of this. I never saw the movie
um
I I know of this
You
Yeah, all right, yeah, uh, I don't remember anything about it to be able to comment unfortunately, but yeah
Uh, yeah focus is on far anthem of my first animal mole rat toad and badger
Lear answer is super speed with frozen time. That's just flash's powers
But if you're going that fast taking a step would obliterate the ground
Yeah speed speed is a bit
Yeah, speed's crazy. You gotta have special rules for that because the super speed is
That's kind of op. Uh, hey rags. Does it jiggle?
Oh it jiggles it it jiggles and when I clap it
They just like clap them. They just go doing doing doing you can hear them
It's my superpower
They wiggle they jiggle got an ass like fire. I won't fall for rags bait by super chat. Oh, wait
I got it. Oh, no
No, so close
Only you could have stopped yourself in time rag explain to greg why he's gay and that's bad
To greg why he's gay who's greg?
I don't know who's greg. Are we talking about like?
I don't know. Who's who's a greg? Uh, onision's called greg, right?
Yeah, and um armored skeptic is right. Oh, that's another greg. They're both gay. There you go
They're both both gay both of them both of them get very they're not even like vicarious. No, they're full-blown gay
full-blown gay
terminal
Flight of the dragons is the best isekai anime
Well flight of flight of the dragons light of dragons
flight of dragons that
That's looks terrible
Let's see. What are you sure not the flight of dragons and 1982 fantasy adventure too?
It just says flight of dragons, but it could be that
Wait, if it is maybe it looks oh my guess. I want to show you the cover of this. It's insane. Why?
It's just like so oh my goodness my god
Oh my god reminds me of the uh, the zelda cd thing
Well suck, what is that like it's like a cd game for zelda that always gets memed this reminds me of it
Yeah, I know. I know what you're talking about. It does remind me that it does seem to have like a similar sort of
Look style to it
Well, this is 1982. When was the zelda zelda?
cd movie rom the cd rom
that was
19 oh cdi that's what it was. Yeah cdi zelda cdi
Um 1993
So they were like wand of ganilon is what it was
Huh, they're about five years apart so
They're not unreasonable, but they kind of have the same that same really simple old school dnd kind of high fantasy look to them
Uh
Is greg supposed to be alfred that's a good question
Ever seen sort of the stranger?
It's amazing. I have seen sort of a stranger. It was
All right. Oh my god. I don't know really trophy. It was fine. I but I have seen sort of a stranger
It was fine
Rags, I love that you say belch when you belch I do something similar start as a bad joke now
I say why it's when I burp without thinking
Why it why it all right? Why it what but why it?
Why why why that like it's pretty odd. Why I say belch when I belch is just crazy. You get that why it
Do you just?
What do you say when you sneeze like?
I don't know
So many options
Thimble
I don't know. Oh, I will say that yeah, I like the music for sort of stranger
car plot
Car plot against palpatine. I am all the portions
I know the portions. I am uncoupled. Yeah
I
Am all you get a quarter portion because I am all the portions
More says greg you're gay because your parents are divorced
Greg you're gay. Oh, is this like a person trying to get us to say this to their friend or something?
Greg you're gay because your parents are divorced. I feel bad if that's true
Gay greg your parents divorced because they found out about your gayness
I
Marriage cannot handle your homosexual tendencies. I can't believe it. If only our son was straight this marriage would have worked out
But it cannot be
It cannot be
More salt in this chat than there was on crate
Jesus it tastes so
So good, man. It tastes like just a big jug of mixed nuts. He's reaching there. You know, he just
um
When you were dead, but your son banged the girl who killed the guy who defeated the dothraki on an open field bobby b
I see this as an absolute win
Yeah, I think he'd be laughing in the game of thrones heaven at all the shit that happened throughout that show
He'd just be like well, at least I got to go out as a good character
Um, and that's it
So I was just gonna say to wrap up that um, i'm currently working on tfa part three. It's huge
It's taking a while. Um
High editing tisms lots of references it's harder to make than any rage videos because it's got
like shit tons of different movie references part of why i'm trying to like if i'm talking about I don't know how throwaway lines work or
what the purpose of adr is
And how we notice when it's fucking up or what it can tell us about a a scene
And then obviously getting like audio commentary references documentary references. I've got all of it in my notes
It's just hard to get all of the quick clips
So it's going to take some time
I really wanted to get it out before april fools because the last thing I want to do is like have people think that all i'm
Doing is making meme videos even though the two videos on april fools will be well edited. I promise you. Um
Or at least as well as my standards reach as well as das bullshit's
Standards as well
He's much better at it. So the night um the but i'm not sure i'll be able to finish it before this month ends
But by the time we hit april first tfa part three will be very much closer to completion
I suppose is the um the worst case scenario
But um, you know i'm gonna try and get it done by then. I'd i'd hope to
And uh, yeah, well, have you got anything to um, I don't know
Bait in the timeline there rags. What have you got coming up?
I guess I don't want to bait because I don't want to promise something's gonna be out and it won't be there
But I i'm I want to get videos out soon. They'll be out when they're out. It's not like i'll i'll say it
there you go, uh
Another streamlabs came in saying my 100th dollar redo message. Good night. Good night. Um, of course. Oh
Thank you all so much for your uh, kind donations and and uh, just hanging out with us tonight
We had some fun for coming and uh, thanks for stopping on by I think
Video we got two of them done too. Not just one not just half a one. Thanks to a
critical drinker and teal deer
Hanging out. They'll um
Might even have them back again. They'll be in the description if you want to check out their channels and
I guess there's one more super chat
Uh rags poo bait
Don't worry
I'm gonna so I said like i'm gonna give the the quote unquote
Somewhat someone's saying uh, what I see rags i'm sorry, but saying belch when you burp is not a reason
Unless you force it. All right, so
tautologically examine that sentence structure, but
I want you to understand that I legitimately do it without even thinking because i've done it for so long already
And because it's what my dad would do all the time
I don't I don't think about it when I do it
Sometimes I will know that i'm going to do it, but i'll fucking do it anyway, but most of the time I just do it
I just do it
Because i'm i'm super cool and fun and I have the right opinion on all Chinese cartoons
Good baits tonight rags
I have no idea what you're talking about. All everything i've said is totally real and true and complete total earnest
So right, so i'm gonna i'm gonna cut off the stream after I give this this bombshell
Okay, i'm really gonna say it and then i'm gonna hit end stream because holy
We won't be able to have them. We can't have them dealing with this while we're live
They need to be able to absorb it. Okay, so oh my okay
The deal the deal that me and wolf made was that I was desperate to show him this tismy goofy show called buffy
And when he found out that it would be 12 seasons and that a lot of it is actually considered pretty bad. He was like
Yeah
Not exactly enticed to do that and I was like, yeah, I know
That's not the funnest thing ever. Is it? It's just like
You don't even know like I even tell the people i'm showing it. You might not like it
It's like why would I like for reference rags? Okay, there's like 22 to 24 episodes in each season
They're all 40 minutes long
Wow, that's a lot of time to invest
That is uh, that is quite a commitment. Someone's making there and all you've got I wonder where the story leads us
Well, you've got to work with is my word that it's a good tism at least in part, right? So yeah
He was like, okay
I'll do it on one condition and I was like, what is this condition?
And he was like you've got to watch all of avatar the last airbender with me because it's oh my goodness
He said it was I think at the time his favorite show of all time
And that uh zuko is possibly one of if not the best characters
In history of like fiction and he referenced this in his videos
uh, very very positive about
those elements
Um, i'm just gonna i'm just gonna answer these last two super chats and then tell the second half of this story
All right, because I don't want to miss these but
I will get to any I missed next time. I promise uh
Someone says I love that you guys are realizing that having a certain degree of super speed basically makes you omnipotent omnipresent
Especially with the speed force protecting you in the environment from physics
Yeah, there's a lot of bonuses
a lot of bonuses
uh
Sorry, yeah, just okay
So we we watch all of buffy and angel it took ages because that show takes ages
And he uh, he loved it wolf did
uh, he didn't like a lot of it obviously, but the parts that he loved he like super loved and
It was pretty cool because I got another friend of mine to check it out and enjoy it
Which is which is a plus for me. I like to talk about a lot of the um
The thematic elements of buffy. How about that?
And so I was like well then sounds like sounds like wolf really really likes this buffy show
Well, we even did an encore which was that we looked at a list of the episodes of buffy and angel and we selected our favorites
and we decided to watch them over as a sort of like say goodbye to the show because we've just watched it all of the um
The cool bits it was fun. It was good. We got to the end of it and I was like well wolf
Looks like it's time for me to get a link for the both of us to get downloaded in that avatar last year better
And uh, we did it and we managed to watch all of it within I think two weeks
And uh, just gonna hover over that end stream button
Wolf's perspective on that show
Is a little different. I guess i'll i'll say mine first, which is that
It's got some issues
I'm gonna i'm gonna talk with some people about them and then maybe
We'll have an efap where we can discuss some of them
naturally
wolf's perspective
Is that he kind of hates the show now and thinks it's garbage and that zuko
Is almost as badly written as kylo ren
Goodbye, everyone
