I haven't done any kind of sound checks. I'm just gonna do that in the opening 10 minutes as you guys speak
I will change levels meticulously and you won't even know
Wow
Or anything
Notification for what for life? I don't know how things work without notifications smaller
Um, you just gotta just let it flow be yourself. Let it go. Let it go
Just let it go let it go
Let go of the list smaller. Oh, no knows every lyric to let it go. Let it go stop holding on to it
Please that's definitely the lyrics right there. Isn't frozen suit or is that already? I don't remember the trailers
I've been seeing pop up in places
It's coming out soon. It's it's gonna make a ridiculous amount of fucking money and I have no interest in
Hearing or listening to anything, but I will say the frozen to store section or the aisles in the store are way bigger than Star Wars
No Star Wars toys, but Star Wars is doing great everybody that's a lie Ethan Van Skyver is a very good
Customer to the to the the products of Star Wars like roast eco dolls off the shelves
He is single-handedly responsible for all of the rose deco action figure cells
Imagine that was that actual reality? We found out it was like 70% of the dolls were bought by him. She's like, oh my
Honestly who buys a rose deco doll outside of collectors
Okay, maybe I'm assuming too much
Yeah, I remember she was complaining about
The something with rose deco action figures and all of a sudden
She was pretty much just trying to praise rose deco and the the merchandise and then itchy Baca commented below
He said hey, Ginny mind posting a picture of your rose deco action figure
crickets
Never bought it. Did she ever bought one way? She was like praising rose deco stuff and she didn't have any yourself. Okay
Over rose deco
Well folks are better than rose deco and from what I've heard that's just a meme
There was some comments on the view saying you guys didn't realize her buying all that merchandise was just a meme
I was like, okay
Apparently it's a joke apart of a child. She buys which dice it displays it because that's
That's ironic. I don't know. I I I don't watch enough of a content to know but apparently there's like there's extended jokes on your
channel about buying merch, so
Okay, hello all my jeb words
I'm, so sorry. There's some high rags in the channel. It's like he's not here yet any moment
I'm certain of it
um
But yes as well as the people flow in welcome to efap number 60 and people are like wait a minute
Wasn't there a different 60?
There was a different 60. It was claimed by the evil monsters at the bbc and uh until I get it free
Which has taken it's probably gonna take the entire month of claim time
That efap is locked away, which is sad because it's five hours of memes
It's just us looking at meme videos and pictures. I had like this
I had like a thousand fucking meme pictures to go through I've got a whole bunch today as well
Ranking our efap villains and that was those fun times. Oh, yeah, we ranked we ranked the efap villains
So anybody who's not here seen that you've got some fun on the way now
What's gonna happen is they'll free it i'll download it re-upload it to moolah and then it'll fight for another month
against claims so it can literally just be in its original form if they
Decide to take it further, which I don't think bbc typically do I don't know do they do that jay?
Do you know more about this than I do?
I've never fought the bbc
I've just I can't be bothered to I just removed the clips and then re-uploaded one night when they when they came after me
Fair enough. Uh, which means like i'm hoping have you marked this episode kit friendly or is this
I marked all of moolah and moolah as a non-kid friendly because to be fair. It's not
Should my kid watch this i'd be like no
And you know, it's whatever uh
Parental guidance that if they want their kids to see some of my videos on my main channel go for it. But um
Yeah, this this whole thing with youtube looks dodgy
Like if you have a video you said is okay for kids and then they spot one word
But they don't like
That they're going as far as being like you understand lawsuits can happen. You're like, okay. All right, just chill out like
Good times
so
Oh, sorry, go ahead. That's good
Well and the fact that you can't it's not gonna run targeted ads or anything. There's no comments
I just think that it's pretty easy that I mean i'm i'm gonna mark my channel as not for kids and just
Not worry about it ever again
Yeah, I just you know, i'm mostly on if it like took all the way by revenue i'd be like, holy shit
I didn't realize the cold was going for children
But I think we'll be fine, um
It's a weird thing though
It's as weird as that emote thing that was going on too, which has stopped now, right from from what everyone knows youtube fixed it
You should have
So like well, I was banned. I was banned for six months for using emojis. Um, i'm glad
Ah, yes, you just hate speech like people should be able to spam the dons in chat, you know, if they want to
Yeah, full haircut emoji, but uh, be careful folks. Maybe use one or two dons. Don't use
17 dons just because there was this weird thing that happened where youtube were like
Deleting google accounts if they spammed emotes
because that's normal and reasonable and um
Um, don't assume my emojis don't assume my emojis either, please
As far as I know didn't they get that fixed? I think markiplier. Yeah markiplier complained about it. Youtube looked into it
I think it's fixed for now. So you should be able to use your dons. All right, it should be fine
Next though, so just never do anything ever to be i was gonna say careful posting words because words, you know
Yes, yes your account becomes inactive they may delete it so just
Just don't have an account
Words are indeed violent. I haven't told so
The phenomenal idea just don't have an account. Oh, yeah, don't just don't
Just don't anything just don't like they're coming for jed next be careful the single commandment handed down from god. Don't
like okay
That was the one that moses dropped
We'll just use these other ones for a while, but that was the main one
But yeah, so when he's fab 60 is released for the second time
It's like a you could call it a non a non-plot episode of efap, right? There's no nothing dramatic happened
It was just a bit of lots of laughs so it can draw it can drop in at any point
And once it finally does it'll just be given a new number
Um, but it was fun and it's sad because we spent like an hour and a half ranking memes
supposed to be time but
It'll come back we found yeah, yeah, we found out that uh, just right is actually god-liked here. That was oh, yeah
He's been right. I didn't expect to see that but like yeah, and brown table's pretty damn high brown table
Just right and tonal. They're like our favorite three creators on efap now
Yeah, tonal was no surprise in his rank
the few that can't like okay, maybe just right can be kind of enraging but
Like tonal and brown table are just like you can't get mad at that. No, not at all. It's so much fun
I can't wait to see it. I'm doing more sad that i'm not seeing more tonal. Well, yeah, tonal hasn't made a video now in two months
It's like no
He's
Support tonal on patreon or don't
Be careful that he might fucking just not make anything because you know rags has been getting his monthly thrust denied
You know, he's not getting his monthly thrust and
If anything, that's something that everybody deserves to get if they're paying for it. That's that's my
Take if you will especially rags
um
Yeah, I suppose that that covers that
So yeah, like I said
The reason why I went into that tangent even though that doesn't seem like a tangent was me trying to introduce this episode
Which is efap 60 now
this one will be efap 60 efap 60 is now decanonized and it'll be recanonized because
We own the ip of efap. We haven't sold it to disney yet
So they can't decide but they will one day that's the that's the concern everyone has is the you know
A lot of efap will be decanonized second. I sell the rights to it. It's gonna be a gonna be a sad day
They just keep the the last few episodes people like no
Completely fucked up the continuity. Where are we gonna go from here? We do need a lot more diversity here
We need some representation and a little part of the toxicity around here a lot of male toxicity
What's kind of funny?
It's funny because if if disney did make an efap move you have to buy the rights they would if I was in it
I would probably be like, you know, it doesn't really matter what a thing is. It's only about how you feel about it
As long as it makes you happy
You ruined his character
The podcast is only an hour long. Yeah, the film is two hours. They're like, this is ridiculous makes no sense
um
But yeah, so welcome welcome guests the only the only we have a new person here
I'll introduce first instead of you other regular boring people. Um
Mr. Ryan kennel, is that how you pronounce that?
That that is how it's pronounced. Thank you. Thanks for having me man. Welcome to efap. Uh,
I suppose since since you're a guest I gotta be doing the thing you may be aware of this thing, but
I'll see that question
The wonderful quite which the question is going to be gone in a month's time now
I can't I don't think i'm ready for that question. Which character do I think is going to look
Consistent and rise of skywalker?
Is that the question that you could sort of trade the question out for like which one do you think will be ruined the most or
Which one do you think will be behaving the least like themselves the sort of thing?
But that's kind of what we're going for
Um, and you're not allowed to pick kylo palpatine or lando. They're disqualified
Um
God, you know, I I watched if I should have known I knew this question was coming i'd even think about it. But um
You know, maybe could it be fin or as fin is fin?
It would be crazy to me if fin had a different story than he had in the first two movies
I think they've just established he's going to be the same person over and over again
um
so
Maybe
Maybe it'll be fin. They'll they'll do the black guy dirty like he was complaining about on twitter
Oh, what do you reckon they'll do with him? That'll make him different?
Um, I think
He'll be white so he said
I think that
So to me fin is like such an empty person because he
We thought that he was going to be a big part of this trilogy and he's turned out not to be
So now I think they're going to force him to be an important part and try to get him to be with ray
For a lot of the time
Traveling around with her and I think it's not going to feel earned. Um
In a way, so maybe fin
That's my guess right now
Although that wouldn't really make him an inconsistent character though
Would it like at the at the time like he was still into ray and he was still doing that stuff
So yeah, that would actually be consistency within his character. Just not within his story
Yeah, I agree to be consistent within uh, especially like back to what we thought it was going to be with force awakens
and then last jedi everything
Went off the rails obviously and uh
He's falling around rose. Mike. I guess will rose even be in this movie or she's gonna get killed off immediately
Good question. I think honestly, I think she's gonna be
An important leader for some thing. She'll be contacted at some point. She'll have limited screen time, but she'll be doing great
She's just gonna be doing great. She's gonna be the secret skywalker or she'll be the new princess. Yeah
She's gonna be the secret skywalker she's the rise of skywalker rose tiko i'm telling you right now rose skywalker
Watch it y'all. They're here first on efap
This is even though there leaks out
There's still gonna be surprises even with leaks, you know, I think that we'll come out soon. We're like no way
with something or other who knows
Remember our conversations when we saw the game of thrones leaks and you and I both said there's no way it's this bad
There's no way. Yeah, it was it was worse in terms of watching the execution happen
But it was the leaks were 100 spot on it was just worse. Oh, yeah
I wish I could like find that clip. I remember reading them out and being like
fucking uh
Do you remember the one where it was like seriously execute smith sunday and it's like how the hell does that happen?
That makes no sense at all. Other than it did
You and I were streaming a few times over on keys and gamers and I remember us being vague about it with people
you know, we're like we've read them and they are horrific and people like
It can't be that bad and we're like if if this is even halfway true guys
This is going to be the biggest collapse in entertainment history and people like it
Were y'all watching the leaks when episode five, uh was around and did you like see the danny thing coming?
Oh, I think we knew all up
I'm pretty sure the leaks did specify that but it was the kind of thing where you read it and you go
Oh, they'll probably contextualize it a little bit better than that
Of course
Because I think what was it does it after episode three is when we read the leaks smaller
I think it was after three because that's when we gave up I believe
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think we were the same on that I was like i'm not gonna read
I'm not gonna read them and after three, I was like, no that's all done instead. I'll read them
It reminds me so much of what's going on right now where you're looking at you're like, I just don't give a shit anymore
Let's read it. Let's read the leaks. I have no interest in doing anything other than laughing and uh
I think that's what we'll be doing a little bit of today
Oh definitely and to clarify so you're going you're going for finna
Yeah, I think fin we'll go fin I don't know if i've heard him be
Well, I was actually gonna say I don't know if you're aware of this, but he's the most cobbidly voted
I'm one of the people who voted for him
There you go
I think the the thing with finn is they've never known what to do with him and in this film
It's going to be something completely different again. Like he's going to be this
Someone's going to be going on with him that will be like what?
I don't remember that being a thing. I feel like like po
He's probably just going to be guy who hangs out with them and then does good piloting at one point
Um, well, I don't want to say anything else because we're going to read the leaks which will disprove any speculation I have potentially but yeah
Who knows?
Yeah, and you know boyega actually just the other day he's been kind of crazy on twitter lately. It's been awesome
But uh just the other day he was talking on twitter
How he wished that he had had a bigger part and he thought that he was going to have like kind of a bigger role
And people started flooding him in the comments like hey
We did too like I hated last day. We wanted more of you and he's like, well, I didn't even know people felt this way
So it was really interesting to see that on twitter
It was uh, it's a really great window into how insulated a lot of the actors are from what the actual complaints are
Not the nonsense like I hate that there's so many women in this film. It's like no, it's not it's not that
It's like very much more specific and it comes from a place of appreciating the characters
We thought you would because yeah
I think most people would agree fin is probably the one with the most potential in the force awakens when you look at all
These characters you're like a rogue stormtrooper. Hell. Yeah
Give me played by john boyega as well. Oh, I mean, yeah, this is the thing
He's he's pretty damn good in everything that i've seen him do
It's just that he needs some scripts, man
He needs some scripts that are gonna get him doing some stuff. That's a lot more interesting than falling over and going whoa
Oh
Let's cast fucking john boyega as a rogue stormtrooper and then make him a clown
Like one one of these three things is not like the others
It's so disappointing but very few people literally, I mean, I don't think there's anybody that has any
Real following a real relevance that has had a blanket claim that it's there's too many women
It's the way that disney is, you know introducing it and the fact that that argument carries any weight to these
Nonsensical people that believe that it's rampant sexism is why people are upset with disney star wars is unbelievable
it's it's literally character assassinations and no respect for the source material and
An episode of the fact that it feels it feels like they specifically cast for diversity and not for story
when they began the sequel trilogy
And I guess that's why people now are looking at the mandalorian after two episodes and appreciating that it looks like they were
Casting for story and writing for story and not for a social commentary
And it's just not complicated to make good content when you are worried about the story and not the diversity aspect of it
Yes, very very grounded for now in terms of like there's nothing I can see in the first two episodes that are like
You're pulling me out in that in that regard
But I do want to wait a bit before I fully judge mandalorian
I was gonna say we we would talk about it, but rags has seen the first two episodes. So as soon as he arrives
Would be a better time to jump into that topic
So as long as everyone hangs out, you know for a decent amount of time as soon as he gets here
We'll cut right into a mandalorian discussion. It'll happen. It just uh
Yo, there's a transgender i'm calling it now. I need to like throw rocks at rags
Is anyone gonna really good throwing on looking like travel states? No
States
Why do I bring you guys on jesus maybe counties I don't know about states
I don't know that phone number yet
Well, here's the thing about um, like them casting for social commentary if they actually like were skilled and wanted to do social commentary
This isn't what they would have done. Anyway, it's just that sort of that whole like shallow thing of
Uh, oh, well if we have the like really shallow image of having social commentary
Then people will buy tickets if they wanted to do social commentary, they could have done it. Well
True
Absolutely
I mean well, what's better? What's better? Yeah, what's better for your social commentary to to put a a
Bland generic female character into a role with no story arc and and and no understanding of the the history or to actually
Put your female character in that honors the mythology honors the story and respects Luke skywalker
You know, I think that that does more for your diversity push, but they don't understand that they don't care
So, um, this wasn't necessarily planned but I do I it's just too funny not to put it on screen so, uh
Hey j since rags isn't here. Do you want to read this tweet out from movie bob? Oh sure. Oh, oh, no
Yes
So
I guess I guess we should we should read both of them
To be to be fader and give them all of the context j
Oh, there's three of them. There's really read what he's quote tweeting
um
Sure. Okay
The best thing about cap. Amelia is that he didn't just hold it once or swing it
He wielded it like a dam as guardian og makes me wonder if uh cap watch lowkey study
Hang on. What cap watch lowkey studying four skills in avengers post-battle tapes
Like uh mj on the dream team avengers endgame. So it's just some guy being happy about cap and mjolnir
All right makes enough sense
Bob comes in oh some gail. Sorry my bad
Yo, bob
And bob comes in it's gonna be such a moment when portman gets to lift this. Can you even imagine?
And like that on its own it's like all right bob whatever but the next one
I'm sorry
It's like oh, you know, uh when the character we've been following these 10 years left it that's okay
But when this like girl who's been in a couple of movies lifts it that's gonna be the big deal
People don't even know who she is. They've forgotten her character entirely
She was written out with a she was written out written out with a throwaway line and nobody cared. Nobody cared. No
Uh, in fact, it was funny when he's like, uh, she dumped me. I dumped her
It was a mutual dumping
Uh, but then he goes on to say call them not cinema if you like
But consider how the mcu has forever claimed milnea
Thor's hammer away from possible symbolic use by white nationalists or neo-nazis worldwide
And in the next one, they'll see it wielded by a jewish woman beside a black queer valkyrie
The only responses you're gonna have is just question marks. You're like what?
What what that's a that's a good response i'll respond to him with that now
I I love some of these responses, especially the image. This is nadia. Please just a crumb of pussy
People just like this the fuck did I just read this is my favorite response to it
Yeah, the 38 year old consumer
I see it
Don't ask quite yeah this movie bob he's such a fucking weirdo
Because like you have all these like characters in the in the what you could call critic sphere or just reviewing sphere
Whatever you want to call it
Like uh the night i'm talking about like all of us movie bob all the rest and stuff and it's just like he's that one guy
Where you're like, what the fuck is he saying?
and you
I was very concerned. He just says some stuff and I wonder if he ever like regrets his takes or if he just
Moves right along be like I was right feel regrets. That's you trying to say he's not human jay. That's very
I would love to be able to say that but unfortunately I have to accept him as one of my own
He's such a
strange man
Like because this is the thing if you had a friend who had that take about mjolnir never being in the hands of nazis
What even would you say?
Kind of representation
I just feel like why did you think it was
Why was it because is it because cap is white? Is that is that what's happening right now?
Maybe there is a thing of it is do we know definitive like
It's like I would believe from anyone else. Oh, yeah, sure. Maybe that was a thing. I just never heard of but it's bob
Yeah, like there's some comic line that happens
Yeah, i'm now really looking forward to all of the uh, all of the far right, you know
Neo nazis that are going to be, you know lifting the hammer just to spite movie bob at all their rallies
So let's look forward to that
Oh
Which um, they do not operate within reality. They really don't I suppose that leads me right into uh
The first topic of the day, which is to essentially recap
Now the efap audience may be aware of this but the last efap caused some trouble
Just a little bit some people are upset with it
Um as you may know
It was a strict 12 hours of mirags and wolf bashing jenny. We didn't talk about a video even it was just here
It was a paused frame and that's all it was it was tough. I'll admit we had you know energy drinks and um
We had to take like there was just these portions where after we'd spoken for two hours non-stop
We were like, you know, take a breath in make sure you
Get some breaks in but that happened. Um, and and we got in trouble on twitter. I say we uh
Wolf and rags don't have to deal with it because
I mean they made the wise decisions of not having twitter at that point wolf wolf actually got one back
During it. I think
I can't actually remember time to do that
Hmm what a great time. Oh, yeah
So wolf got a twitter account and he came back for his face fully efap the same time
We got the biggest drama we've ever faced
And he gets his twitter background the same time too
And like and he started dealing with some of these people and he got like a small suspension to nyx used to know know it
Oh, I wasn't aware of that. Yeah, did he already get a full suspension too?
Oh, yeah, you got you got one for the stupid ass reason but yeah
Well, I got one because someone reported me and then I wrote to twitter's like helpline and they just straight up re like
Gave me back my account immediately without sending any message which makes you think is there a reporting system automated? How does that work?
Mike well, I sent them context what I was saying to like prove that it wasn't just some like
um
random personal attack and then it was based in fact, so
I maybe that was what it did. But you know you since when does twitter care about that?
Fair enough. Um, but it was funny because uh, I was just chilling out and then I noticed suddenly the
Like the the ratings on the last efap had like
Well, plummeted and I was like, what the hell?
Did like do we piss off a bunch of the audience with covering jenny or something?
I was like, I don't think they didn't seem to care in the live chat that much like the
You know, some people can be defensive if you cover a certain creators
And I think that's totally natural. So I was just like maybe we we stepped on a niv with jenny
But I was like, oh all the top comments are still positive
Like the yeah, I noticed that too
I was like, where's this coming from and then and then uh
Just looking around and found out that jenny had tweeted out the stream or at least a screenshot of it
And she was like someone made an 11 hour
A video on me. It was like oh
Oh, no
Because when you when you're a very popular
Pearson and you make a tweet like that
The second I saw I was like, oh we're gonna be dealing with a lot of messages now
a lot of
A lot of assumptions and that's that's what I had to get to work for a good
I was editing batman episode five batwoman episode five when I was dealing with twitter stuff
It was such a bizarre tonal shift going back and forth with twitter
because
You go back to like ruby rose delivering a horrible line or some stupid plot point that makes no sense and everyone laughing at it
But then back to you run an alt right nazi podcast where you hit women's feelings regularly. It's like, oh
but
you know
natural internet experience, uh, what do you get to this point of
I don't know guy if you have you guys done this before criticized a woman. Have you done that?
Uh, I I tried to declare you're not supposed to do that. Well, that's what I was saying
I was saying have you ever done it? Like I know you're not supposed to
From what I understand efap specifically only focuses on women according to jenny nicholson's fans. That's what i've heard
Well, and uh, i'm a little upset and a little triggered right now
Oh, i'm so sorry. I mean ultimately like, you know, what am I supposed to do?
She she didn't tell me she was a woman before we went after her
You're supposed to do that
Um, but yeah, well, I mean like
Well, I mean just like being within the the star wars, uh, you know criticism right now
They they will say that we only focus on like criticizing ray and rose and kathleen. Kennedy
But we pretty much criticize ryan johnson every day, you know
We're not fans of a lot of the characters whether they're male or female
But it's when they can build that narrative around a woman and they can just pretend that you're woman hating and I saw this happen
I mean you guys covered nothing but men for the most part when you fat you cover a prominent female once and you're all of a sudden
Just building your entire
Uh, you know show around hating women
That's how it goes and
yeah, just
Like a lot a lot of labels floating around and I was just gonna say like
Like we're bullies. We humiliate people and we're we're like in cells and stuff and i'm just like
Calling rags an incel. Really? I don't know
It doesn't really match up. But then the whole like humiliate part is just like we listen to people's videos
If they humiliate it's not our fault
We didn't force no bullshit to say that it was sjw to have a large midget in in infinites war
He said that on his own volition
Um, but he was he was a guy so it didn't matter like that, you know doesn't
Besides he's one of the people they probably hate anyway, so
Um, but yeah, I was just going to show you some some random comments
Um, the way I started seeing on the video because I was like wait, what's happening?
um
I don't up to you. We'll start with a
Almost ambiguous one. Do you guys think this is serious or a troll because I i'm still undecided
I don't know if it's just poorly spelled or if it's trolling
Should I read it or uh, go ahead
As if I want to see more videos of men mansplaining things to women
You should be ashamed of yourselves and hide behind the rocks
That's a troll
No, it's hard to tell it's hard to tell it is hard to tell I don't know
It's on the it's like the straddling the line. It's like
behind the rocks
I love it
Um, that is hard to tell but either way that's the beauty of it. Mm-hmm. That's the beauty of it
So it's got to be a troll john snow 1 5 4 6 5 2 1. That's his name
I mean you could have you could be a guy out there with that name like why not? I don't know
He's only a fantasy's name
All right
I'm checking out chat. Are we thinking troll? It seems I think I think most people assuming it's a troll. It's fine
Let's check out
Uh, I don't know. Jeremy. Do you want to do the honors for this one?
John snow again
The stream is a bunch of mean-spirited personal attacks against a fun and friendly youtuber who is popular and weird
And unique and makes a lot of fresh and fun content. How many ands can you put? Oh my god?
Um, i'm not with the canceled culture
I just realized I haven't hit read more. I'm pretty sure this one was really funny and I and I accidentally
Snipped it without hitting me
Damn it
You got another one you want to you want to yeah, I do have I have a backup one
So have fun with this one. Jeremy screw that one
There we go
All right, here we go, uh maddie doggo
You spit 11 fucking hours six of which related to the video about some youtuber god damn your
Apathetic fucking joke hilarious that you have literally
I hate everything and the fury so
In the closet, what the fuck? Uh in the closet. He missed
Guessing any time a woman exists
Whatever here comes the 12-hour response to a youtube comment. Hope your channel burns and you
also
I don't even need the rebar though. That's just great. Okay, that one's real. I
Think that was real myself. That one's real
So deep in the closet. He missed the turn to narnia. That's a good line. That's a good line
I just think that any time a woman exists you cry like a bitch
What
Hope your channel burns and you
Yeah, also
A bad rep mauler's biggest crime he gives a gas mask a bad rep
Um
So it's got another one. I don't know ryan. Do you want to check this one out?
Oh, yes
Oh from matt frank 11 hours this thing
Is 11 hours long
I started listening to it and
It was so weird, but I could actually see my own life shortening
The precious grains of sand that gently flow through the hourglass of life actually sped up for me
I was literally dying faster as I listened to whatever the hell this is supposed to be
Anyway, joker was kind of bad
I love that. That one's that one's fake. That one's fake. That was fun. Anyway jokes kind of bad
I
Good cinematography though
This is what I mean like
There's lots of just the 11 hours thing and I got confused by because the video was 11 48
So you'd think they'd go with 12 wouldn't you but the narrative was 11?
I guess they gave us that 48 minutes as oh, that was probably time they spent, you know with intros and outros
Well, you know, they they glimpsed. They basically glimpsed that too. So
Yeah, I didn't
Take the time to
The glimpse the 11 part of it. They're like, yeah got it
And that was that was the thing that was so ridiculous about this whole thing that was going on on twitter like
The people would be like I can't believe they spent 11 fucking hours complaining about a woman and then you or someone else would say
Uh, you know the whole 11 hours wasn't about that. It was about this this this this and this and they're like
You think I would actually watch it
That's the response they just admitted they have no idea what they're talking about
Who's that columnist the new york columnist verified on twitter that retweeted you guys and was like, uh,
Imagine being this upset about who was that? Do you remember his name? There was some cock from the huffington post. Yeah
I remember I cover the name. But yeah, I simply retweeted him. I can't remember his name
Uh, let's say his name was john for instance. I said she's not going to fuck you john
Talk to nickelson because that's these people are so pathetic
So, uh after after a bit after that we got this this thread got made on reddit
I don't know if you guys have heard about this one because I tweeted out because I was blown away by the existence of this
Like so fucking dishonest but
Funny to say the least i'll link
I can link you guys it but obviously uh, it's
Down for now
Yeah, it got shut down after you retweeted it. Is that what it was?
Yeah, and don't don't mention the only fucking comment that's still there because i'm gonna i'm gonna reveal that to the audience
because I know they'll love it but uh
Yeah, like uh, so just so people can see it. It looks like this like the thread but the thread read
A red pill youtuber makes an 11 hour long response to a jenny nickelson video where she gave her opinion on why she didn't like joker
so like
red pill like where the hell did this come from like
And um, yeah, like the account that made this fucking hates efap
Uh, there was like a a lot of comments in relation to it. I was just like, oh my goodness like
You you me and rags will be infinitely surprised at how much people despise us. Um
We shouldn't be but you know this exists. Uh, luckily the the when you make a thread on on reddit
It's like permanent or it can be archived or whatever
Um, so so I can still we can check out some of the comments on it in a second
But um, I was gonna take like the the the top comments are just filled with how disgusting and horrible we all are pretty much and um
Reading through it was interesting because it was just like any of you seen it
Any of you seen it?
Just just put up a hand
No, no, no, no, I mean any of the comments have they seen
the show
And uh, because I really wish I would have read this uh
Really with the show would have read the I remember when you posted it
I just didn't click on it, but I would have loved to have seen but um the reason it got booped
Was because it broke rule one, which is content must depict an embarrassing interaction between two or more people
Now it was between three people
So it wasn't that it was that it didn't depict an embarrassing interaction
Um, it wasn't this is on cringe the subreddit and the the moderators I guess decided that this is not cringe
so
Rip I guess like there's nothing more satisfying than knowing that the guy who made that thread who hates efab was told that
It's not cringe
So, yeah all that remains on the thread, um, I mean you guys have already seen this if you've looked at that link
but i'll just show the audience is uh
One comment that says, uh, just as the spiders foretold
Fucking greatest meme ever for this thread
Like
I don't know how that happened, but it's like the best thing ever
It's the only one standing amongst a sea of removal
Like the you know, obviously the mods saw that they're like, oh, yeah, no you can't you can't delete comments about the spiders predictions
I like to think that's what happened. I like to think it was a mod who knew about efab and thought
Stay
The fucking mob is a fan of efab. Yeah. Yeah, he used a dog whistle. Hey, that's how we can wake regs up
Oh, yeah, do it
Everybody shoot up your dog whistles. That's that's what you do with the dog whistle you shoot them up
Anyway, uh, so if you guys click this it's essentially like
Gets you into a reddit thread that's been deleted and oh wait, why has it changed now?
They've all been censored
What oh no wait, they're back. They're back. Oh god for a moment
I was like the whole point of view is to show us things that get deleted not delete them
um
So you got top comment, which is pretty fair. Yeah, i'm not watching this. It's like yeah, that's fine
I wouldn't ask anyone to watch a level hour stream just out of randomness. But um
Then you got how dare someone not like something I do and lots of other people's do I must pwn this crap in with my immense brain
So that's how they see discussion now interesting
Like uh, we didn't say she was wrong for disliking joker. Anyone can dislike it. It's all good
Then you start to cycle down a bit more. Um
Oh, yeah
I'm skipping over all the responses by the way because there's a shit ton of arguments about how like this is wrong
Because there's a lot of efab fans who do not like this, uh being the the narrative
Uh, jesus christ ain't nobody got time for that. It's like
I don't know. It's just over 100k views at this point like some people do
um
Uh, let's see, but this is the whole thing about it
I mean, why am I why are you and I and wolf and rags or why are we friendly now mainly because wolf?
You know put me in a video on something. He didn't know opinions of mine. He didn't like and I responded
The way I respond and then wolf was like, oh, yeah, like, you know, we were cool
We had a discussion about it. You know what I mean? And like I told you I was claiming like I met him by taking a shot
so
pal, I was gonna I was gonna work into that because when we had the discussion about
You know how he and I met and then ultimately got to come on efab. Uh, you told me how you guys met
Conversations are not attacks
Challenging your opinion is not an attack
It's it's discussion and you can either choose how you want to handle that and if you want to play the victim
You you clearly can do that. You can always paint that narrative around it
But i'm sure
That if she wanted to have a discussion about her opinion with you
And you guys sure you would have it. She doesn't want that. Well thinking about it. This wasn't actually planned
I just thought it was like you and jay both technically people who
And now have come on here semi-regularly and regularly and uh, you started out as being people who could be considered antagonist to a degree
Uh differing degrees, but it's just interesting how that
Happened and then other things can happen
Uh, for example, i'm not watching 11 hours of red pill bullshit. I can guarantee this is cringe
The entire subculture is cringe. We're some fairies because at least fairies don't shoot up mosques or schools when they're not getting laid
Like if you if you watch the efab when we're talking about that and we're making all these jab memes and just hanging out
having fun then that's someone's takeaway you'd be like, uh
Ah jab those school children must pay
Yeah, then you've got like
Comment we're starting to get to this all comments now that are like, hey, this isn't actually what you're saying it is
And then like molar is a red pillar
Like ball is a black pillar
He's in more of an alt right capital g gamer i'm like the quartering uh clean prince gaming apparently, okay
Um
It never comes to the conclusion after watching one of his videos it's because yeah
Red pill is the whole like
Uh, what is what is the base does anyone here know what like the basic tenets of a red pillar are?
Well, I think it's in reference to the matrix
No people people in the comments were saying it was you are a men's rights activist
Um, yeah
I don't remember that coming up
But maybe it's because we criticize jenny and she is a woman therefore. We hate women and love men. That must be the uh
The through line there very solid
Yeah, I mean like
I think it's clear that this is not a red pilled podcast if you look at what you titled the stream molar
Um, it says rep pilled podcast. Oh, no
So you're definitely not red pilled. Uh, you don't even know how to spell it. So I think that's
You know
You know what i'm gonna change it as chat has honestly well suggested it should be jab pilled that is
Oh
Someone in the someone in the reddit thread here is on it. They're like, um, you're you're confused. They're not red pills
They're ends. They're just in cells
Okay
I love the idea. They're like i'm helping you efaps like no, you're not okay
I don't know if they thought they were helping or not. Well, that's true. Yeah
Rep pilled it was setting the record stream. Maybe they thought that was nice
You know, I I shouldn't complain it's better than the rest of it. I suppose
um
Yeah, unlike look at the god I used to watch rags not proud of it. It's like wow
There's so fun
I saw one that's like I think his force awakens intro or his criticism with the force awakens intro video
It's longer than the film itself. That boy ain't right
That's all
I mean if you put all the time you've talked about anything
To like one selection and it turns out to be longer than the thing itself. You need help guys. You need help
Can't be doing that. Okay
I can't talk about moments in a movie without it going longer than the moment itself and therefore you're bad and need help
toxic
What if you just like you're you're disabled and you can't speak fast. That's not an ability you have
Nope, you're psycho. Look at this. It must be hard being a female youtuber when you have things like this happening
What we've we've got after 95 percent men
No, no, they're saying it must be difficult for her because she's a woman. Oh, because women are weak because women
Yeah, okay. If only I was a man and strong enough to take criticism
Someone says excuse me a woman had an opinion. I need to go screech for 11 hours straight
And then someone responds. I don't appreciate you misgendering angry joe
Oh, yeah, because we cover him for a portion of the uh
This is it though that they believe they believe women can't stand with their own opinions
They believe they have to have white knights come after them
They they discredit women every time they have an opinion they don't agree with I just posted, you know
But this video the yeah that darth barbie posted her last why don't like last jedi in the comments
You're letting jeremy from geek to gamers influence you
What?
Focus because if a woman has an opinion that says the last jedi sucks
You must not have came to that opinion herself must be the toxic man
And then like a woman can't be a youtuber because you can't criticize her
It's so tough for them
I'm just thinking I don't know if you've seen her video guys get more hate than anybody
Oh, yeah
Well, um, I think lindsey alice recently came out talking about how horrible it is to have like onslaught of people
Ragging the shit out of you and then getting to the point where they stop you from being able to have friends
Of difficult political positions, which is something that happens to guys as well
No matter what political fucking position you hold and it's just like you guys, you know kind of did that to us
But okay, you know, we're fine. We'll laugh it off
uh because most of this is coming from people who literally have no fucking clue what the video is or who I am or who rags is so
like it can't actually
Get to us on a personal level because it's not actually entered into the personal realm yet. They based it off a thumbnail
Which is kind of an interesting social experiment, right?
It's like could you just make up a thumbnail post it to cringe and be like look at these people beard
gross
People like wow
Were they men? What if they'd hang on like the title was
Red pill youtuber. What if wolf and rags because they wouldn't have known what if those two were women?
No, that doesn't that doesn't matter. Well, i'm i'm sure the poster was familiar with efap, right?
Um, yeah, the poster was
But he says a red pill youtuber. He didn't even specify that i'm a guy
I guess if you respond to jenny nicholson you have to be a guy like why else would you is that the
This is complicated. Okay. I'm trying to keep track of the rules
Right now
It's a never-ending rabbit hole of nonsense
Dude, you're trying to you're trying to keep up with consistent rules here. Come on, dude. I'm sorry
It's just not it's just not going to work. It's it's a fruitless endeavor. Just stop
um
Yeah, we had
so that the huffington post guy, um
Cosmonaut variety hour linkara, um some theories
lots of
uh, I guess well known like twitter people because they were getting like
100 000 thousands upwards of tens of thousands of like
Likes and retweets about how terrible efap is and i was just like how is this happening like?
Is it just that that's how much a screenshot can spread I guess. Um
But uh, I do want to mention linkara and cosmonaut variety. I both
Pulled their shit back. They were like, okay
May have jumped the gun. This is clearly not entirely what I thought it was
But you can see why I assumed it was right and it's just like yeah
But you're wrong and it's like, okay good
So though I may have actually watched it. Hmm
and uh, yeah, the uh linkara removed his
His blog about how terrible it was and I think cosmonaut just put out a tweet saying that yeah, he was wrong
Um, so that was cool. It doesn't doesn't happen often, but uh, we got there with two people
out of the thousands
Progress, it's full steps guys. Okay, so you make it sound like it's impossible, but it's possible
Um, yeah, I saw linkara come out and I immediately linked. Uh,
Medikir's I think is that guy with the glasses episode three. Oh, man. That's
Green mmm. I don't know what the fuck to think about that. Uh
It's just another uh twitter take
um
Yes, who hasn't read stuff that's bullshit now you got to do it
all right
As somebody who actually has watched a couple of efap streams all the way through
And has sat through a couple hours of maller's content. I can tell you right now that they are not even worth touching
It's content for people who think cinema sins is funny and follows people like ben shapiro and steven crowder
Like their words are gospel. It's worthless content and they are garbage people
So a couple things, right?
Yeah
One of our most consistent guests got started on youtube by ripping into cinema sins
Yes
That that's a thing like I do not get this take that it's like oh they're like citizens people
It's like no, we don't like cinema sins. We have lots of issues with cinema sins like
Okay, are there where does this shapiro and crowder thing come from like what?
What it's the classic right there. That's the paint to paint you the the conservative alt writers right there
That's where that comes from
It's like ben shapiro is a fucking clown
that's
Well, then apparently we're clowns jay. How do you feel?
Ben shapiro stars in joker
I'm not political
And and that's the thing it's the everything everything turns into incel nazi alt right whatever it may be when
First of all the alt right hates ben shapiro for reasons
Obviously, uh, they hate steven crowder. They're they're constantly at odds
So just the the constant trying to lump people in with all these groups of people that you think other people hate
As a way to discredit them. It's just disingenuous and shitty
I mean they they don't like crowder and you know shapiro's then they're like, oh, here's another group of people
I don't like these people must be connected to the other people. I don't like
They must be fans. They must be supporters because everything in my mind has to connect everyone in the same boat
They all are toxic and they're all far writers. Jeremy. Do you want to jump on this one? I think you'll like it
Sometimes the toxic nature of straight white men on youtube will never cease to amaze me
Imagine hating on the best youtube channel of all time
for 11 hours straight
And being this passionate about a fucking clown movie
Fragile men are simply a disease. There's no other
explanation
Wow, so jenny nichol said has the best youtube channel of all time. Hmm. Not bad
And damn it sucks being born a white man because you just got a toxic nature
There's gotta be a way to get rid of that right guys. There's gotta be a way
Yeah, so imagine being this passionate about a fucking clown movie. Yeah, imagine being the media
Hoping for a mass shooting around a clown movie and then being disappointed when it didn't happen because that's the type of nonsense
The clown movie has been the fucking talking. What the I don't even like this. I
Was the space wizard movie it's like give me any movie
Then i'll just you could just find a thing in the movie be like oh, it's the that movie
Exactly. Exactly. You can take that build that narrative around anything. I mean, I love toy story for instance
Oh, I can't believe he's passionate about a fucking toy movie
Yeah, I mean literally any movie you can build that narrative around it's just nonsense
I don't know like what's the most like serious film that ever existed and then we just have to find something stupid in the film
Like so a guy reading a book and be like fucking book movie
Okay
Meanwhile meanwhile
Imagine being this passionate about a youtube channel that you don't like which is what this person's doing
They're upset that that someone's passionate about a fucking clown movie yet
They're showing equal passion for a youtube channel that they don't even understand
Just because of a headline that they're looking at and not taking time to read the context and of course you're all straight white men
um
No
Because that's fact everybody who disagrees is a straight white man and you're toxic
And you're an alt writer. It's my favorite thing when people like try to go. Oh you fucking straight white man to
Uh to someone to try and discredit them and they're wrong
Well, like what like the fact that fucking both rags and wolf are not straight white men. So
The yeah, what when you know, they're not straight or they're not white or fuck it, you know, they they've recently come out as trans
Oof, that would be really awkward then when they because then they'd be in trouble like
too much assumptions
But um, I mean one thing I've noticed with uh, you know being a member of the fandom in us and and even obviously with geeks and gamers
Is uh, if you are not a straight white male, uh that has an opinion that they disagree
They just don't acknowledge your existence at that point
You know, they're either going to brand you a straight white male
For your opinions regardless if you are not then they find out if you have a prominent voice and you you know
Say oh, I don't like this movie or I'm not against that or i'm not for this
They just don't acknowledge your opinions if they can't build their nonsense around it
They just you're irrelevant to them at that point
Or they go the extra step and they call you either like a race trader or a
Right. Mm-hmm internalized blank
So they can use the word still yeah, so it's like yeah, it's like so uh internalized homophobia and there you go
A gay man is now the enemy
Exactly. Um, so it wasn't all bad. Uh, there was some
Fucking hilarious takes on twitter. I've never seen before I do not believe this guy is a troll
I think that we've found what is one of the most
Like genuine boomers in the wild. So i'm gonna read this one out because it's too fucking funny
But uh, so this is during the whole jenny thing
Someone weighs in on the conversation about effep
I don't understand how these people got youtube accounts in the first place
What youtube executive decided to pick up these shows? How did these people slip through the interview process?
Do you uh
Do you think do you think that's how it works, mate?
I assume they either self-finance pilots to pitch to youtube or get funding from television distribution companies
Or produce on spec scripts same as any shows on netflix or nbc or whatever
It's youtube. You just sign up for an account and you're good. Literally anyone can do it
You can't just make your own videos, dude
Cameras and sound recording equipment and lighting equipment mixing boards cost tens of thousands of dollars
Not to mention the cost of film stock videotapes or transmitting to broadcaster. I worked in this stuff in the 90s
You have to be trying
Come on
Oh my goodness, i've never seen someone so lost before
I can confirm my channel has over 200 000 and I have a 75 web cam from target and i'm very proud of it
Wait, who produced that? How did you get funded who approved of your show idea?
Yeah, I mean I had to go there was a there was it was a really strict process
I had to go through six months of background checks, uh drug tested every single day
even tested for the uh
You know the type of drinks that I couldn't drink soft drinks for six months during the approval process going to youtube
Uh couldn't masturbate which really sucked
It was really it was a tough time. But hey, I i'm here now
And those six months of hell it's all worth it
So thank you to you for approving me and by the way, susan is great. Susan is wonderful. All hell susan
Yeah, well, that's that's all well and good. But come on, dude
You do that exactly you actually spoke to them
I mean, I I spoke to youtube. I mean they they came to my house. They blindfolded me
Okay, beat me and gagged me for about six to seven minutes
I woke up I woke up in uh, like a it was just a padded room
Uh, and susan walked in with sunglasses. She never took her sunglasses off and grilled me for about 45 minutes mainly by voting preferences
Uh, you know am I gonna support bernie things like that? Uh, you know, what what how did epsin die?
And clearly i'm still here today so I said the right things well, I was just gonna say it was really stressful the day
I walked into the board of directors and I was like, I just put a big white board and I just put efap on there
And then they were like
What's that? I'm like, let me tell you a story
There for a good few hours
But yeah, I got funding and I got 100 episodes approved and we're waiting to see if we've got the next 100 in the next
Few weeks. So how about that?
Are there specific questions or are you alt right nazis? Okay, cool. We approve of those all the time. Yep. Yep
Up you go
Yeah, jay was there obviously as manager. He uh
Was was was given a lot of the reins in terms of in terms of how I was on I was one of the people interviewing you
That's how I became manager. Yeah, you you saw the potential you were like guys. This is gonna work. This this is i'll pick this show up
Can imagine think imagine thinking a youtuber has to go through the process
The only way any youtuber can get youtube's attention is to go on twitter and tag them and have your followers retweet
So you can get an answer from them
You have to go through that process even markiplier for crying out loud can't get youtube to talk
I just like
Imagine this guy down and showing him like how youtube works and how you do it and how simple it all is
I could just be a hit see him being like oh my god
I'm gonna be like, why did they get the cameras though?
Does it make sense?
I assume they're either self-financed pilots to pitch to youtube like
If you look through youtube and see all of the idiots on here
All of us that are just uploading whatever we think and that's the assumption you come out with
There's no way that this dude is any less than 70 or 80 years old
There's no possibility
I mean most people say he's he's old or or he's just uh
Fake like he's a troll and i'm like, I don't know man
It's a good troll if it's if it is a troll because I it's just it's how that person would behave if that person existed
The one who worked in tv in the 90s and then was put on pause until now
Like what is this internet you're all talking about? It's probably says seventh generation new yorker
It's that that's consistent with what we've seen, right?
I wonder if he ever like this was the day he's been on twitter for ages that he was just like
I should look into this youtube thing
Oh, you know what it was it's what he probably saw all the late night shows on youtube and he was like, oh, yeah
Yeah
stuff like minefield and yep
That's like when my when my grandma found out that I had a youtube channel she text me how did you get on tv?
That is exactly the response I expected this person would also have
Ooh rags has notified me. I believe he may be here
Hey
Rags isn't real
What wait, is he not?
Did he get one? Is he just like some little puppet I have then in the in the efab like board room
I had the ef thing and then I had like a wolf and rags puppet and I was like this movie
So this this video is so bad. He's just very very like what do you think?
It's true
um
All right, he he is on zuwe
Uh, let's see. I think I think we're near the end of the twitter saga. Um
Oh, yeah, this one's cool. So, uh, this is a nice one I got on the on the the jenny
Oh, no, not that was the it was the following batwoman mini. So, um
I don't know who wants to read this out. It's a nice one. I'll take it
I must apologize to you lads a couple days ago. I fell for some reddit crap
Framing you as incels and made an unpleasant
Comment on your video. Let me move this over. Hang on. There's something in my way here. Sorry
And made an unpleasant comment on your video after watching a few hours of your content. I can admit I was wrong
My bad lads my bad. No, so I just want to make sure i've gotten the story straight so far. Okay, that's not
Oh, yeah, that's fine. Uh
Because long shanks is very invested in us covering batwoman. Uh, he's
He's ready to come yeah, but so like just the idea that um
This probably didn't work out very well for the people who hate efap
Like we would have we had a bump in in subs and it's what it's our second most popular episode now. So thanks
Um, and we'll we'll get over the incel comments. It's not really something that's gonna bother us
They destroy everything that they try to help and then they help everything they try to destroy
I mean
Like look the joker, you know bill your first billion dollar film, you know rated r film
um, they they all these crazy lunatics
obsessed with identity politics and
Uh white men being the the most awful things in the planet
They they complained about the joker and all they did is elevate it all they did is help efap
Gave you guys some of the best traction you've had ever so yeah, which like I said, thanks. Thanks
I guess and the the twitter war was worth it. I guess and obviously, um
thank you to a lot of the people including ryan and jeremy and j and
uh
There's there's lots of names
I don't want to try and name them because i'm gonna miss people and then i'll feel like an asshole
so all the people who lent a hand and uh
Looked into all this nonsense during those fun times on twitter. Uh, thank you very much
I appreciate it and it all has calmed down until of course we cover jenny again, which
when
When that happens after wonder how soon that'll be it sucks because like we pretty much capped it with that one the 12-hour cap thing
Like we can't really go further. I was like, oh, let's do a fucking 24-hour jetty stream
But uh, uh, yeah, it's been it's been fun. Hello rags. How'd you do?
Hello, um, I do well
we've been uh
Recanting the fun times that twitter had us had for us
Yeah, we had a we had a great time and um, um
Rarely does a day go by where I say man. I really I really miss being on twitter. Mm-hmm
I was watching some of that in parts and i'm just all like I can't be bothered to even read all of this
Fuck twitter, dude
Oh, yeah special mention I guess for uh for anna that star wars girl
She actually made a video covering this going over how ridiculous the whole thing was like appreciate that as well
Um, luckily the narrative just died like it just didn't work for very long because the second you look into it, right?
And this is the funny thing that um, I had a lot of people talking about so it's framed as a horrible sexist
Monster in cell podcast and the um in the opening 10 minutes me and wolf are discussing how much we love buffy the vampire slayer
It's like like so people who've been sent there to hate it and they're like fucking i'm so ready to rip into this and they're
Listening and they're like talking about how much they like buffy. Okay, that's sexist
Probably
And um
Yeah, you could skip around and you can there was a guy I don't know if you any of you saw it on twitter
But there was a guy who made that four minute compilation of all the worst things we said
Which involves stuff like she's she's being retarded or she looks kind of like an android or the lighting isn't good
It was just four minutes and then and then like basically every comment was like so what about the other 11 hours and 44 minutes?
Is there anything else in there?
Um, yeah
Is that the one where they clipped anna's stream also yes, and um, it didn't it didn't work out very well
shell in
Um, one of the points she made I just wanted to highlight this was funny
One of the points she made is that she went into a drive-through viewing of joker and she said the reason for that is in case
There was a shooter
Oh my god, so you might have the question as we did
You'd get that your car doesn't stop a shooter, right? Like
That like that's a weird line of logic and she was asked that on her video and that was her response. Um
If it's not showing up. Oh, yeah, there it is
It said uh, jenny
Uh, you do know that cars aren't bulletproof, right windows, especially not bulletproof and she said car drive over man with gun
Now i'm sure that'll work great
Just talk about conveniences
Uh, so the man decided to not only allow you to start up and drive your car forward into him
But he also stood in front of it as well
Like this this shoot doesn't sound very intelligent, but all right if that's how it works out, you know
Yeah, I think that's one of those those fantasies people have in their head
That they have when they haven't considered reality in any way shape or form
I'm sorry. No, I refuse to believe that that's her actual that that was her actual thought process
Oh, i'll i'm gonna go to a drive-in one
Uh, so if there's a shooter I can run them over
like that's
That's how justifying it after the fact there's no way that's actually what she thought at the time
I think this is shooting at the drive-in theater. I was just fucking run him over with my car
I just assumed she realized it didn't make sense and then she was like I could defend it this way
Then she probably read that back was like oh fuck
It's just the person that assumed or said that it was a bunch of men clapping in the theater, um
Weird weird common. You know this I know a woman's clap. I'm a woman. I know what a woman's clap sounds like
For anyone that's been to a drive-in
Getting out of there is the biggest pain in the ass in the world because there's a million cars trying to drive through a little area
It's exactly the same as a theater a crowded theater trying to get out
So I don't even think she actually went to a drive-in
But uh, I guess we can't oh you reckon she didn't even go to one. Yeah, like
I think she's just saying that well for me. I just be like, did you go to one?
She's like yeah, and i'm like, okay, that's fine
But like you didn't go there to prevent a person from shooting you right? That's a really weird thing to say
Overall, it's just the the whole takeaway is that she thought that the articles were real about people
That's going to shoot this movie up and really that's
Just ridiculous on its own. Honestly, she's a gullible lady then
Um
So, yeah, I was just gonna
Yeah, so just the amount of uninformed people I think that's the general takeaway
Like every person we saw on twitter talking about that. I saw people being like it's clearly some sort of sexual reference
It's called efap. I can't believe they're talking about it. I'm here like that
Just people have no idea what's going on. We let the audience name it and by god
They came up with a clever name. Like what can I say?
It's it's like it's like three layers of referential like we couldn't we we had like a poll
We had some good ideas, but efap had just won and I remember when I announced it on twitter
It was a guy was like, I don't know man
That's um kind of makes you kind of it kind of brings your podcast into like it was like a sexual podcast
And I was like, yeah, that's the point though. It's so great
Like wait
There's a podcast called efap that covers video essays and discusses like philosophy and ideas about themes and breakdowns
Thousands of people watch it. It's called efap. Like I don't know
It's the thing you just don't believe
That's what's so wonderful about is about family
Efap's about family
That's the theme
Fucking with other people's families. We have all of the themes in uh in efap
so
Uh, there was a guy I call this by chance and he has no idea i'm probably going to do this
Um, but I thought it was an interesting video. He made an edited version of the stream
Which i'm now going to place into the description if you guys want to see
Which basically just has all of the arguments presented and counted from jenny
Uh, well from us from jenny if that makes sense. Um
it comes to
three hours 19 minutes
So that's how much we time we actually spent on it
Um still monsters agreed still disgusting creatures, I know
but um
I'll give you guys a link to the
Watch together. We're gonna he made like a little commentary video about it
We're just gonna check out like the first half of it because I was amused by it
So if everyone jumps in
If you haven't used watch together before it's just you just click that and you're
Dropped into like a room where i'm gonna play a video and
You can change the volume for yourself. It won't affect anyone else's but if you pause it pauses for everybody. Um
Funny pandas epic laughs. I don't know why that it I don't know why that makes me giggle every time
Fucking pandas, dude
Whenever I whenever I see that the the epic laughs, I remember years and years ago how epic fail was the big thing
Ah, yes, yes
Epic laughs is the new thing
Yeah, just uh, just check us out and then we got a meme video
That's specifically about the twitter thing and then I will happily say that at the end of the twitter thing
But not quite yet. Hi, my name is car and I am human anyways today
I wanted to talk about something that has been bothering me for a while now at the beginning of november of
2019 a video stream was presented by the epheb crew
Consisting of molar wolf and the episode's guest rags
The topic of the stream was jenny nicholson's video titled
Well, I didn't like joker and while the stream itself lasted 11 hours the part that addresses jenny's video
Itself is only three hours and 60 minutes. How do I know that?
Well, I cut it up
I cut the whole thing up and here the six simple steps
I had to go through first step download the video and put it in the editing software step two rough cut the jenny part step three
Cut the remaining five or six hours into half hour segments because my editing software was on fire
It didn't want to work step four and five cut all the stuff that wouldn't impact the statements made double statements dead air size
Breathing and other stuff with precision cuts cut all the things that could be considered offensive
And topics that had nothing to do with the video. I'm looking at you rah and you fucking rooftop
So no one can claim
Long my bad. Are we cool? Did anyone get that? Can you tell that this was very tedious work probably can't
And while I try to cut as much as possible
I have this strange feeling that sometimes I made precision cuts like a surgeon and sometimes I just butchered the video
All right. Now that we got all that out of the way
Let's move on to the thing. I actually want to talk about I think I would like to
Baptize efap period and yes, this is a fucking sexual joke. This video is not for kids
I'm also extremely pissy right now. So shut the fuck up
So what is the efap period the efap crew reacts to an bad take on the internet
The creator of the video either a comes on the podcast and the people talk it out
Like a painless period or b doesn't come on the podcast and a just stay silent
Which was would be like a math period or b pulls along and bad
For those who don't know what along and that is here's a quick explanation
Some guy made an 11 hour response
Wow, that's only likes tweet count. We don't use this word
Maybe that's that's a we are a pill of a scary color
But in this case, I would say jenny is actually not a bad one in this story
Yeah
Believe it or not
Because I checked the original tweet from jenny and she just didn't want
To watch the video because she takes the land for the video automatically implies that the view is unstructured
Well, I can't understand and that is why I cut the whole thing up. It's on the internet
You should look it up. Check it out. Probably also in the description. I don't know i'm tired
I just want to get this done. So why jenny did pull a long man bad
She didn't felt defended from what I could see and she didn't send anyone to harass the efap crew
so
Yeah, the negative reception came actually from the people that engage with miss nicolson's content
Here's a problem though on the internet. I never know if someone is trolling me or not
So I just assumed they're trolling me a hundred percent of the time
But but there was one tweet that brought the spotlight to the thing. I actually want to talk about
a tweet from comfy with lexie
They watched literally like 10 to 15 seconds of her video before saying she looks like a murderer
She looks like an android except no some androids are nice looking
They also said I never seen her before but I know I never want to see another video from her
I assume this is that's something your side would never say. No, I might be wrong here, but
But but hear me out
These parts of the video don't make the criticism less valid. I cut them out because
I could definitely see why someone could see them or deem them as offensive. I think that offense can only be
Taken never given you can call someone a murderer
And if that person isn't a murderer for clarification, by the way the comment
From wolf being like I don't want to watch any of the content from now on
It's like they had like a huge problem with that and i'm like anyone can say that
Anyone could anyone could just go. Yeah, I don't want to watch this person. It's like yeah, that's fine
Yeah, same time for people said i've seen one of ranks's video or i've seen one of maller's video
And I never never would have seen any of your their videos ever again
Yeah, and the response is just okay
Before you got here rags somebody was like it's hard for me to admit but I used to actually watch rags content
It's hard to admit
I know I can't admit it in front of my new friends who definitely wouldn't judge me over that sort of thing
And yeah, and as for the like the android comment
So she was overexposed because of the lighted it made her look super pale like unrealistically like smooth and pale
She kind of looks like how androids are often portrayed. I believe I said this in the video
It's like it's not supposed to be going. She's ugly. It's just like wow your lighting kind of fucks you up
That's that's mainly what the point was and then um the comment about how the way the way it's framed in that tweet is uh
Some androids looking nice the point
Uh, I think it was wolf was saying it to rags or vice versa
That there are androids in movies depending on which one you're looking at where they like
Look one-to-one like real people. So saying she looks like an android doesn't make sense in that regard
But we meant the ones that don't yeah that yes
What we what we really meant was that she looks visually indistinguishable from a human. Yes, that was our comment
In fact, we we probably might end up making that comment a lot
I just like you know with context for all them just like it's not really that harsh like as insults go
And really like the comment was more along the lines of like what her lighting was and how overexposed it was to make her skin
like just look plastic and
Yeah, just not skin
It was just mostly a lighting comment if I recall
It was just unnatural for her like the production value that she usually has and everything
And size of her channel all that it was strange and that was all your comment was
But like the the channel's been around for a while. So it's like to have lighting that like atrocious
It's like come on. Really?
She looked odd
She had she had she had an odd looking face
I suppose it's good that
They highlighted how much of a horrible comment that was so it gets us to essentially
Re-explore how bad her lighting is over and over again. It's like if you want us to do that
We will it could have been a passing thing
But no it has to be like the focus of it now
And yeah, and then I guess the point that he's trying to make is that even if there is an insult like say for example
Two plus two is actually four you idiot. You don't then go idiot. I'm out
Like oh, I mean you don't have you can you know, everybody has to consent to the conversations they're having
I'm not saying that's not the case, but
Yeah, this thing got blown out of proportion and they were desperately searching for idiot all insults we had in the um
in the coverage of it, but yeah
uh
Thanks to that guy for making the cut
so if you guys actually want to watch the cut up version you can find it in the description of this video and um
he
Concluded like I said, there's just over three hours
Not quite 11 or 12, but you know
I can't wait for the for the
People from huffing and post tweeting out. I can't believe this guy spent days
Cutting out 11 hours of content about making fun of a woman. How dare he?
I'll be the next thing
Um, and yeah, so as a as a finale, this is a meme that got made
about the whole thing
jabs for jeb
she's jenny nelson made a made a joker video and a lot of people wanted us to cover it because
The between the three of us we i'll say we enjoyed
Great I really liked it. That's right. Yeah, that's some that's some of that good stuff that joker. We're gonna check this out
Uh with all of you along with us. It's gonna be fun
Check out what argument she has and how she felt the video is called
Why I didn't like the joker, which is fine. I want to get that out there, you know
Find not like it. It's what comes after that is usually the um, yeah, it's the why is she made out of plastic?
um
Oh my god, okay, it's happening
That is like way too many hours this what being an alpha loser looks like
This actually is a master class on being a dedicated imbecile. Holy shit. I can't stand small snippets
How do you survive like this? Imagine being one of these men having a fursona with that
Woman for her personal appearance and interest why did I
Rip jenny's comments forever except they were never good cuz she's a woman online with opinions
Our five sexist rant part 10 or 10 i'm still right. She's wrong hour 11
What the fuck is an opinion? Just my guess of the structure you three are the definition of basement dwelling in cells
You have girlfriends you have your own apartment slash houses 12 fucking hours
Not a single goddamn person will sit through this anyone who says they have is a filthy liar
Six hour takedown of the last jedi when your angry response to a thing is longer than the thing itself
You can't be a very skilled writer. Oh my god. I can't trust an idiot
He's also very
Stupid
within an hour of irrelevant stuff before getting to your video
Then begin by saying assist white boy nerds do because you like the new star wars
Well, maybe if you actually at least try to watch the video
You would find out that the actual response is only about two hours long since they don't just talk about your video
I know it may sound wrong, but they genuinely give you good criticism on your really bad points
This is you
I regret this. I skim through it out of morbid curiosity
They like to play three seconds clips of your video with no context then argue against said grip with strong
Attacks for 15 minutes. What a bizarre way to attempt criticism
The sad thing is his fanboys have created a dumb meme
I am still amazed each day at the length shitty youtube man will go to harass others
I know this is nothing new, but my god, it hasn't gotten any better
He recoils in terror figuratively from having a coach of thesis and demonstrating it with focus
It is contempt for his audience by not actually making a premise and just reading a grocery list of things
He doesn't like what the actual fuck did you just say to me right now?
I really really want you to acknowledge what random obsessive men see as objective folks in your subjective tasting films
Please go on a show with dudes who call people retarded. This is not at all a trap
If you're feeling suicidal and you come to the right place
Oh that explains it you are a literal nazi
Now holy fuck are you being an idiot intentionally ever get so mad at women you go alive for 12 hours
They do what they normally do but to a woman. They are sexist. Fuck it. I'm leaving with I don't know if and when i'll come back
Oh, that was great
Oh my god
Um
I get it
Yeah, go ahead check this video it's called long bad bad jab dickels edition, uh
Excellent shit
No, that's the first video you edited. That was amazing. That was really good
I can still I can still hear jay's voice in the wind
He wants this already
Uh shame he's gone forever. Yeah, that's the first video you've edited man
Yeah, man, that was uh, very very good. I love it as a um,
If someone was unaware of what happened all over twitter just like just watch that
And I love the guy who's like they've constructed a meme where they
They prevent any criticism. It's like you guys made the meme for us like
He's he's like they played us like
Guys don't say it's long that's what they want. It's long man. They're aware that's stupid
Um, oh man twitter is a shit hole it is
an absolute
Just it's just a dumpster full of the worst of humanity
Oh my goodness
The the the computer voice is just the best. Yeah, do they even have any apartment slash houses?
I didn't know that it was so easy to tell whether or not somebody could have sex or not. Yeah, just like that
It's whether or not they like the last jedi if they like the last jedi they're slaying mad poon
Apparently
Um
Which yeah, it's like we can't really follow that up
Now we're going to be moving into something that rags and jay are aware of but we have to share with the efap audience. This is um
So we covered him a long time ago. Mr. No bullshit. They remember. Oh, yeah
Ms. Will explain your history a little bit with him jay nice and vague so we can slip people into this
when I was um
When when I was like starting out like mostly my first year I made a few videos covering his old channel
Which is called brooks show, which is terrible. I just covers media his new terror his new channel is terrible, too
but uh
His his old channel is like I mean they're both really something
I covered him a lot and I was like wow, this guy's actually a piece of shit
I'm like, I don't really want to link to his videos. Uh when I cover him
Uh, so I I made a video announcing why I wasn't gonna link to his videos anymore
And I think is that is that the necessary context?
Yes, uh, we've got you know, we'll play what he says and then we can play. Um
What you actually said because i've got the time stamps for that as well
so we can do that if you want just because
I think people will find it pretty amusing but the let's let's listen first. So this is a psa sitch friend of efap
Decided to have no bullshit on his show to discuss claims that no bullshit was racist and um
Let's say during that
Some other topic comes up, uh strangely so i'm just gonna let this play talking about because you've already
He said he wants to
Much different is much different than like a possible mixed percentage
But the whole point is I don't care about that shit
Like I don't talk about like white ethno nothing like you're the one bringing that shit up
And then that's why i'm asking why did you go on the screen?
You trick me into talking about it and then now all of a sudden you're like saying oh now he's one of them
It's like fuck you dude. You're just making shit up
So why did you go on the stream with terry mccarthy if this isn't your concern?
What why why not? Why do you say why do you say I can and can't stream with certain people?
I'm not saying you can't why is that a crime?
Whoa, where did I say you can't i'm asking you why you did?
I'm not saying you can't do it. You say it like it was a crime committed
So i'm saying like like in my opinion explain to me the context you've yet to do
I could say the same thing about you. Like for example, i've seen some of your other streams. Why did you stream with mauler?
The silence is like my favorite thing ever because like wait
What?
Because I like his content. What does that have to do with anything?
Well, i'm just saying I mean he's a known leftist and he has some pretty shady people on this show
Wait, whoa. Whoa. Whoa. You said mauler is a known leftist
Mauler is like totally anti-estudate. His co-host is rags. What are you talking about?
rags is a leftist
What are you talking about? How is rags and mauler leftists? They're liberals. They're liberals. Okay. So, you know what liberals and
It's like I learned a new word today
So like before because there's a bit more to this but before I could see I was just like we did it
I was talking to jay about this. We need one more now. We've got um
Remarkable republican and no bullshit have both called it. There's a leftist podcast if we can get one more
That's a complete pattern of both being called super lefty and super right
So uh, then we'll have them all on at the same time
They can argue over what we actually are
Remarkable republican and we'll have knobs and we'll have
I don't know the zombie of ronald reagan. They'll all be on the podcast
And we'll go over why we're all
leftists
But like yeah
for reference
Go ahead
You know, you go you go about a week and a half two weeks of being called red pill end cell
um
Yeah misogynist racist
Nerds, right and then sure enough here comes knobs from left field. No, no, no, no. They're leftists
It was kind of a nice change of pace. I know. Yeah, it was refreshing to say the opposite of
Well, I'm like the opposite of stupid because they're both stupid but
Man, he's always there to brighten up your day with some incredibly stupid comment, but I like that
I don't know. Yeah, I I don't I don't have any issues with him directly. I've never had any issues
He's been supportive of my channel. I've I've never had any issues with him per se
But if you're leftist what the fuck do you have alt right jeremy on your?
stream
I thought that that was the narrative that we were hard right, you know, like
I guess I don't understand what the hell he's talking about
Why would you have the trump supporting jeremy from geeks and gamers on your channel? Uh consistently and it makes no sense
Yeah, he said we had some shady people on but like we we looked at our list
from
Knobs's perspective what he who would he consider like a shady person to have on?
And I don't know what if we found anybody it's me it's me i'm the shady one. I I guess it is jay
Well, no, it's definitely jay
but notice whenever
No, no, whenever whenever anyone like says like oh efap is this political thing. It's always to demonize it
It's never like oh, I like efap because it represents my politics, right?
It's like apolitical. Well because nobody's gonna like it for that. That's not really what like why people
People totally like stuff. No, sorry. What I mean is nobody's gonna like it because it's all right or because it's leftist
Or because it's left or right or blah blah blah
It's you know, like if we win. Yeah, that's what i'm getting at
Who hate the mandalorian because it's not political enough
a joke
Yeah, I mean if it isn't political or if it's the wrong political then they just won't they won't like it's bad
It's a bad thing. The themes were bad. So I can't it can't watch it. It's bad
Is there any have you guys had any issues? I mean, what's the what what is the history with no bullshitting you guys?
Well, we covered we covered it infinity war video and holy fuck dude
Like that's one of my favorite highlights of all of efap
We basically he's trying to explain how there's loads of woke elements to infinity war
One of them includes the fact the vision is kind of like a human kind of like a robot
So he's obviously trans he's like the trans character
And it's like the trans
Yeah
Visions trans they're trying to put in their trans propaganda
Wait, I want to so wait. Wait, because they've not heard it before actually got a daily, right?
So, you know how?
You have a lot of characters in the film a lot of just just characters in general and they're they're of different
You know, like some are male some are female you could say that right?
Yeah, that's a pretty it's pretty easy thing to agree with. Uh, no bullshit's commentary was uh, there is a suspicious amount of women
Uh
I just hadn't heard that one before, you know
It's good to know that in the mind of knobs if he was making a movie review one of his points would be
There's a suspicious amount of women i'm curious
Like an ironic comment that there's there's I don't know. I ain't saying it's wrong
It's just really suspicious how many women
It's not about the content it's not about what actually happens or whether it you know, it's good for film
It's just about the gender of the cast. That's what matters, right?
I'm curious like what the number is for him like you can have this many women. Okay. Oh, oh, wait
Wait, peter dinklage eat if you forgot you got oh, I did tell him about this earlier
But yeah, the top comment the top quote was the um, he described having a large midget as being something of an sjw thing to do
I
Complain about sjw nonsense constantly, but i've said this before if everything is sjw then nothing is sjw
Yeah, and so we've been criticized as the geese and gamers for not
going after the
Gay scene in it chapter two because apparently people were like that's woke that's sjw. No, no, it's not
What the fuck are you talking about? I'm a I'm a gay in the book
Yes
Yes
Yeah, so people were criticized for bending the need sjw used it's like oh my god
You really think geeks and gamers does that also when we were doing the gameplay for jedi fallen order?
There's a black female in it and somebody says here comes the sjw park and of course this part comes in
What's the sjw part? Like see black woman like
The game's dull and boring enough without having to make stuff up so you don't need to do that
Oh, yeah, the black woman equals sjw then uh, well she's the
She's the chick from the wolfenstein movie they made a few years ago
Yeah, yeah, so that's why I saw her and i'm like, oh not you
It wasn't because she was black is because she was a fucking annoying stupid character in the wolfenstein movie
See now you can see with when you know, no bullshit. I mean he sees a woman he knows it's woke
That's why he thinks that you guys are just about as far left as fucking possible
Because he doesn't understand how you can watch this and not be offended by the wokeness
Well, and that's the thing we're just sitting here like oh, what are we today general public? Okay
Thank you chat. That's why her eyes do scare me. Yes, like her eyes are
Unnaturally large and they are legitimately
Uh strange to look at
She can she's she's she's actually he's not she doesn't play a human in fallen order
She's actually a a bipedal humanoid race, but their eyes are shaped so that they can see behind them
They're like a donkey, you know where they could see all around them kind of at once
you know
Um, you can't sneak up on them
A predator prey thing prey has the eyes on the side of their head and predators have them on the front of their head
As long as you don't say she looks like an android, I think we're good
Yeah
I was actually gonna say I can I can pull it up
Um as a sort of it's just it was funny
So let's see if I can do this because to remind the audience of no bullshit's uh
Commentry. Oh, see we're already laughing at it. Stop stop. Uh
According to my notes. It was two three seven fifteen. All right
This is a blast from the past people
The point is they chose the most well-known film for that joke exactly
It's not obviously it was like. Oh, yeah, everyone's seen that
Then movie knowledge they're not fucking pushing the sjw agenda. Oh, yeah, was this when he said that?
Uh, the movie was sjw because they mentioned the film aliens and that's the film led by a woman
Oh, was that one of the arguments? That was one of the arguments
He's amazing that saying the world through a lens thing
Yeah
Yeah, his lens is bender's movie a week ago saying it was too male
No less and it looks like marvel has recognized that too. That's why they're over correcting now. There's also a giant midget in the movie
Oh
You know
Yeah, see I undersold it it's the way that he delivers it in a list format like
We always we all understand that giant midget actually they'll be moving on
Oh man, he elaborates on it too
Yeah, he does what does he say? Do you remember what he says because I don't know how long we talk about that
it's stuff like oh
um, we we all know how much sjw's love to have representation like disabled people are totally a
A group that they weren't represented and like slick stuff like that
I was like, that's probably why he's here. Well
And this was the funny thing that um endgame has that
all-wammon scene
and um
He like his take of endgame was pretty positive like we watched a bit of his video
He was like, yeah endgame was great and it was like you fucking ripped into infinity war
But like the most bizarre things that I don't know his
His his takes on exactly where the the sjw's are are very interesting sometimes. That's um
for instance
If you'll call out that all-wammon scene in endgame, then you're just
I saw several women calling it out and funnily enough. I think I told
Some of you guys a comment if I said on efap
But my sister said that that was the most frustrating part of the film for it. She thought it was so awkward
I was just like, well you're supposed to like it. So
You're a woman you will like women on big screen you're doing it wrong like shot her face into the screen clap
And
It's not to say there aren't things to you know
Maybe take a look at in infinity war when you look at the way that surrey treats. Uh,
Bruce banner and stuff like that, but
Fucking tall midgets. I I don't think that's I don't think that's a wolf problem
I've never heard that one ever that is fantastic. That's what caught us off guard so much
Um, but yeah, i'll just I think there was a little bit more of this i'll just play the rest make sure
Why did you stream with mauler?
There is a little bit because I like his content. What does that have to do with anything?
Well, i'm just saying I mean he's a known leftist and he so I didn't realize when I saw this
He was on the stream where you covered him
Oh, yeah, yeah, sitch was sitch was on the stream we covered him. Yeah, that's great. I love that. I love that
Dude, that's why I believe that's why he actually has a problem with sitch
But he's just trying to connect this weird puzzle together to be like instead of the fact that you laughed at my retarded
Takeout a fucking movie. It's instead you're an asshole
Because you connected to mauler who's connected. Well, i'll let him finish. He has a line of logic here guys. Get ready
Are you familiar with j xc
I don't know what that means
It's a youtuber who was also streamed with mauler
No, I don't know who that is
So he also streamed with mauler and he had an interesting video about me that he privated
Because of embarrassment served the right to speak and some of my views are so controversial. I shouldn't have a platform
He got a lot of bad feedback about that and I just thought since you associated with him and his friends
Do you believe in freedom of speech? Yes, that's his line of logic. So
First of all that video wasn't private
Second of all, I don't think it got any bad feedback for it
Except maybe like the odd cover which like or you always get you know, it was overwhelmingly positive
at brooks
And
Should we get it? Have you got the I do? Yeah, we can we so we can play what knobs is
discussing right now
So this is where I said that he's not allowed to have a pit like where he should be removed from the platform
Should be removed from the platform say his shouldn't be free to speak
All right. Let me just get the timestamp
Considered to be harmful now
I would like to make it very clear that I do think he should be allowed to say these things
I don't want to take away his freedom of speech or prevent him from having the right
To express his beliefs or even hold these beliefs. I think that he should be allowed to do all of that
I will defend his freedom of speech as I hope he would defend mine and turn
However, I don't think the things he does or says are acceptable
I've decided to completely stop linking to any of his channels in any of my videos while I usually link to the
So like yeah
Sounds a little bit different to me
Oh, this is a two-minute video bear in mind
Well, I mean I would love for brooks to to uh talk to me about uh
If he's got a problem with me streaming with mauler because he's expressed interest in wanting to talk to me before in the past and
Complimented my channel. So
If if streaming with longman bad is bad. I would love for him to uh, talk to me about that
I'd love I'd love to hear also see with mauler into the far leftist
His issue honestly seems to be with uh with jay specifically like and he's drawn that the fact that i'm friends with jay
Means i'm bad and if you're friends with me, it means you're bad. It's just like whoa
This is guilt by association
To the second degree
Like you were on the podcast of someone who knows somebody else that I have a problem with
And why I have a problem with him in my description. He literally said the exact opposite thing
I
I was surprised that he's freedom of speech wanted to comment on the fact that it's like it opens with a beard like
He should be allowed to be on here. It's like oh
Like you're literally
If you're just gonna tell a blatant lie about someone what why have the middleman just say that
Sitch is the one lying don't say sitch knows a guy who knows a guy who said a lie
Why why even go that far? I mean just go for it. Just cut out the middleman
Um, yeah seems like a lot of bullshit to me
This um and then just to show off how fucking great no bullshit is uh because I listen to this video because I
I'm fascinated by no bullshit. Um
So just check out check out this portion
Right here
And there was a good comment in the chat
Uh brooks isn't a debater and that's what i've always said. I've never said I was a debater
I don't do debates. I don't even do very many live streams on my channel
I just do this for fun. And yeah, if i'm a bad debater, so be it. I don't give a shit debates are gay
And
Debates are the big gay btfo
Fuck down gay boy
What what do you do with that
I was trying to have a debate and the next thing I know was being rammed in the ass like what can I say?
It happened. I did it
We need someone is I hope someone does a meme where it's just just knobs his face and the little quote thing on the like
the black
Before this you'll have like an abraham lincoln quote and then a gandhi quote and then knobs debates
I love just reading the chat as you know, because I have the chat up on screen going by one just says knobs huffs paint
I think he's huffing more than that. Like this is something else going on
Oh, he is legitimately the worst debater that i've ever seen in my life. Well good rags because debates are gay and he's he's an alpha
I want to seem to debate major lee
Oh god, it's gonna be like a black hole
Future lee came and talked to you guys, right? He did. Yeah
That's one of the women a suspicious amount of women
He didn't respond to the request to come on the common ground stream. Oh ryan. So he didn't respond really
Yeah, no a bunch of people tagged him. So
You think maybe one debate was enough you'd think that would be the like he
With how I understand major lee. I would have thought he'd love to do that. He seems to love doing that kind of thing
I'm so disappointed. I would have watched the show out of that
Well, there will be another because there's there's no uh shortage of people that really want to talk to jeremy
Uh, it seems like who uh half of them end up backing out
Is this how it comes because debates are gay. So that's why
Yeah
Nailed it. I'm pretty sure there's another one of these in this video as well. I've got I think he says twitter is gay
Let's have a look. Oh my god. I want to debate him on the idea that debates are gay
That's like a
Gay debate inception right is with you with rephrasing questions like you just said jokes have truth in them
Yeah, so when you say a joke that's kind of racist. What is the truth in that joke?
I don't I didn't say a joke that's kind of racist. This is what i'm saying
Did he just say he's never said a joke that's kind of racist. Oh, fuck it
It wasn't even the point of this clip if you want to watch this nightmare stream
Was that the quote was that the quote if you want to watch this nightmare stream?
There's a shit ton of terrible quotes that come out of his mouth. Go for it
I need to write down that timestamp. This debate is playing next to every joke
He's ever made where he's like, you know what fucking?
Jews like that's
Just the jokes he tells well, I mean there was a point in the stream where sorry where knobs
completely straight faced
Right off right out right out of his mouth ass. Sitch, which one are you first jewish or white?
And i'm like holy fuck maul and I were watching it and i'm like
Jesus christ my jaw hit the floor
Like I could ever even imagine asking I like if I can't imagine asking freeny
He's like, which one are you first black or australian?
like
I do have that question
Wouldn't even occur to me. He actually he asked it so nonchalantly
Yeah, yeah, he he's like he phrases it like it's like that's a very normal question to ask and it's like oh
Oh
Just try to make a pin on them and you're telling people they say shit you're doing that fucking reporter lady bit that interview
Peterson the chat is the chat is like
All over the place man. It's like oh have I gone past it someone in chat said twitter is gay
That's what I was actually going for. Oh my goodness. I'm so sorry
I gotta I gotta hear him say twitter is gay
There's another one that says twitter is also jewish by the way
Okay, who cares about tweets twitter is gay dude
There it is
I agree twitter is this the big gay twitter is
Suspicious amount of gay
All of the gay, uh, and then i've got
um, this one's a little longer, but it's him like flipping the fuck out because
I think if this doesn't include the context, right?
So what what's happening is that I think psa said she's asking no bullshit. Um
How can we didn't speak up in a stream where someone was saying that like interracial marriage is not okay
Interracial relationships aren't okay when he's got an asian wife because you'd think that would be the kind of thing
He would be like hey, you know, that's fucked up. Um, wait, is she 3d?
I've heard
Can't confirm. Um, but yeah, let's just check this out because he loses his shit mine and the creativity. Okay, so
Do you think right?
Your conversation was racist like if you're uh, I don't know who that is
The guy you had the conversation with ontario's stream who said that miscegenation should be illegal
That sounds pretty crazy
If you agree that that should you agree that being anti-miscegenation is racist, right you agree to that
I've agreed with you the whole day, dude. I'm not racist like get over it
Well, no, but you agree that anti-miscegenation laws are racist
What is that?
anti interracial marriage laws
Yeah, of course. I mean people can marry whoever they want. Okay people can live wherever they want
Like I i'm not racist like that's why didn't you call him out on the stream when he was insulting your wife and your relationship?
Dude, fuck you
Wow
He has a little wheel he spins in his head and it landed on angry and indignant
So he had to take that position regardless of the situation. He was actually him
Like he gets up in the morning and he walks upstairs and his mom's like oh, oh brooks
You look so nice today. He's like, fuck you mom. I don't have to take your shit
He talks like I talked when I was 14, I think
I don't like I'm like god. That's
The way he interprets everything modern warfare 2 except we stayed there and we never left
Yeah
But this is the thing like if you were to pause it right I go why are you offended what are you offended by?
But look how he like loses shit
Hey, he wasn't fucking insulting my wife. Like get out of here
He said he thinks that all interracial relationships should be illegal and that children of interracial relationships should be kicked out of the country
He's telling you whatever. I don't give a fuck what he said
You need to stop talking about my fucking wife
Asking him why he didn't defend his wife. Yeah the irony behind all of this
Like somebody coming up to you and saying hey this dude, I know this dude
I know called your mother a whore. He's like you stop fucking talking about my mom
They're like wait, why didn't you get mad at that guy who actually said it
Literally just hear the word wife. I think so. Yeah, he went he went into husband mode. I guess I don't know
I I feel like he was just kind of trying to get some outrage going to shut the conversation down as quick as he could
It's definitely a pivot. That's what he does all the time. That's what he does all the time
like
Out of your mouth that i'm offending you now and that the guy who doesn't want you to be legally married your wife doesn't offend
This is very strange
Like this fight is well that guy actually if you want to if you want to get down to it
I don't agree with what he has to say, but he was nice and had a cordial conversation with me unlike you
Oh, he's so classic
You didn't speak up about you imagine saying this shit like imagine saying oh he was fucking nice to me
Fucking loser like
As if as if like guys to me what he said my wife was really
Putting that much value on being civil while we're like yay fucking loser
At least he nicely told me that I shouldn't be married to my wife and our potential kids should be kicked out of the country
Is there a nice way to say that
I suppose evidently I went over pretty well with him
Oh shit, why don't you tell me sit sit sit fuck you?
You're a bitch sit. Do you have a shit channel and this isn't gonna get you any fucking attention?
You're not the next destiny. Let's hey, oh, it's not gonna get him any attention. Oh my god
Oh, I love this
So much it is knobs is he's legitimately a pain to listen to because he's he actually is that stupid
He can't grasp the most basic concepts
Um, it is equal parts
Frustrating and entertaining to listen to just about insanely stupid. He is childish outbursts
He better was like a comic relief character in a cartoon
Like he's he's a one-off episode he's a one-off character in an episode of rick and morty who rick kills
Oh, he would be the antagonist probably but he wouldn't be aware of it or gay
You know what? He kind of reminds me like he'd be like a bit pot like gearhead. Oh
It kind of you know, it kind of reminds me of that guy at the lighthouse during the purge episode of rick and morty
He's got the script going and he's like I want you to go ahead and tell me what you think of the script
Don't worry. I can take it. Don't be gay. Well, I
And then morty's like, okay
Well, maybe you shouldn't start your stories in the middle and maybe go at the beginning get out get the fuck out
I told you not to get the fuck out. Just get out the middle is gay
Um, it's too much middle, but yeah, that's it for the for that
Saga, I just I just like to think that no bullshit doesn't like us
And I imagine it's because we covered a tismy video also we're friends with jay. We didn't agree with him
Um, we thought we thought what he said was stupid and therefore we're super left
Dare I say no bullshit is welcome to come on if he wishes to I don't think he will want to so it's you know
It'll be fine
Not after today. No
Look no bullshit if you're listening to this all we did was play your quotes, dude
We didn't do anything else
I would love for him to ask me about my far left friends mauler and rag. Yeah
Love for that question to pop up
I was just asked by scrump if debates are gay earth and traps
That's an interesting question
Um, I do not know was that traps weren't gay. I want to draw attention to a cool and then kind of I guess
Sad thing so we got efap is on imdb, which is cool
But um, it's got a 3.7 out of 10
uh from 50 reviews
apparently judging from uh
Where is it the review link? There we go
You're the first review which is apparently the most useful review there right now is efap is a good name since it's literally a circle jig
It will probably take a few years to watch the first five episodes if you have no life and also no taste
Efap is definitely the podcast for you
Chances are this review will have a 59 hour response from mauler and the other guys since he is incapable of debating himself
As evidenced by his interactions with jack saint but debating by himself. Sorry simply put it's mauler
What do you expect?
Nine people found that useful. All right
Um, but yeah, uh, this is ignoring that well, I was gonna say that there are some positive reviews as well
Uh, we got we even got a long man bad. Um
In quotation marks, that's how you know that they're fans. Uh, yep
But yeah, they it's still sputtering up this this is uh, there's getting everything in order and we've even got like a narrative going
so you got um
Like episode one three old friends gather on a new platform
And cover the already infamous gerry genesis and the law behind his inner sanctum
They also cover downward thrust a man who speaks many words, but with a little meaning
Like it goes through like when we get to like the the tro bit
It's like uh, the mastermind behind it all is finally revealed the progenitor of patrick is here with uh,
With his assistance of the dreaded quinton all fire. He's firing all cylinders wolf is injured in this devastating assault
That uh wolf down for the count the defeat this it's a whole narrative. There are seasons. It makes total sense
Go and check it out. Uh, give it a negative review if you feel efap sucks
Give it a positive one if you think it's good and engaged this person obviously
uh put some effort into making this so
Uh, it's cool stuff and who knows maybe it'll get fleshed out and you'll have a full-on guide to efap the internet
TV show as i'm sure it can be considered
Internet tv show we did it. We did it. Yeah, we did it
This is what we wanted all along this to be called the internet tv show
And I think it worked out so well for everyone trying to do this in the past
We figured we'd throw our hat into the ring. I guess uh, I just looked geeks and gamers has one and we have a lower rating than you
guys
We have a 2.9 out of 10 bullshit
Everyone go immediately to the efap imdb give us one star
Yeah, we got to get lower the geeks and gamers
Yeah, it's a race to the zero
Um, I will pop this in the description so people can check it out
Which by the way in the description as well is the the subreddit and the efap.me website
There's a lot of like fan-made things in relation to other things to keep track of now
So i'm sorry if it gets all
Chunky in the description, but all of the relevant links will be found in there. It's um, chunky is gay. Yeah
See, but yeah, dude, I don't I don't see any positive reviews
If you scroll all the way down there's one guy that says jeremy sjw slayer
He's a bright light of hope and change of something on youtube in this rust era of our generation
Uh 205 found that helpful. Oh, well
You must have done something to get you up to a 2.9
I'm gonna make a video on this. Oh, I love it. Thank you for whoever created that and thank you mauler for
I was like, you know, just keep some gamers have one. I feel like somebody told me we did pretty proud of that 2.9
Oh, you know what?
You've just made me realize I should probably look into it a little bit more for the details
And you could probably do the same because on so i'm just gonna look through this again. This is
Uh what I mean, but like cast and crew
We got um, I guess
Wait, oh, so these are all the people who are in it molar is executive producer jax's manager makes sense
I'm just trying to see if uh, the producer credits. Why is this linked to it?
Like all the cast it's just everyone castes himself. Yeah
Country uk or a documentary i'm curious if james maul would be cited as a
producer
And then that review is just there that's a that's a thing. What do the other reviews say? I probably should have looked at uh reviews
Um
Uh, the memes are the best my favorite episode is episode 21 with weekend warrior watch efap
There's no way to explain the absolute quality of this podcast series to someone who hasn't heard of it
See no wonder they got upset seeing these reviews. They were like, oh, we can't have this
Oh look, there's a review for this episode up there already
Oh my goodness
Wow review made on a live stream plot twist at the end
Oh, that's great. Oh that the the sickle jig review is going down now
Well, yeah, you're just uh, yeah, like I said, it's in the description, uh, it's cool as a little like thing
And um, no, it can't be going down there because apparently your vote will be counted and appear on this page within 24 out
Well, I guess now is within 20
Yeah
Never mind that is within 24 hours
Time is gay. Yeah time is gay the big gay
Um, I was I was also made aware by the way on um two different episodes. I haven't got the specifics for them unfortunately, but um
apparently smud boy says like a year ago
That uh the way they're going with disney star wars is that they're starting to just ignore all of the things they have in terms of like
Uh the world like like what tools and abilities they have and instead
They just do things because they look cool without thinking about it. And one of the things he says is we're probably going to see them riding horses
Um, instead of using any kind of vehicle at some point and it's like oh shit
And we joke about it's in the doomcock episode the first one I think episode honestly
It's the it's literally the most popular episode we got because we cover major lee's
Um, quote unquote video. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Uh in that we all joke at one point that ray is palpatine's granddaughter
Oh really? Um, I haven't got a link for that either yet, but yeah, I just thought that was
We did it oof
You know when we when we make a joke disney, you're not supposed to
Supposed to do it for serious. That's how they're doing it. They're uh,
They're like just looking up
Uh, he's watching efap they're looking for like people joking about what will happen next and they're using that as the writing room
That's all the abrams can really do is just repurpose other's ideas. So now he's gone to search in the internet for it. So that's
That's what we've got. I think it was um, I could be wrong on this but the the writer for westworld
Uh said the someone had guessed the ending
In in like a reddit thread and so he wanted to change it from seeing that
It's like this i'm pretty sure that's actually like a real thing for writers. They're just like no
They know that ray is the granddaughter. No can't have that it's all wrong
um
So yeah, we're finally there the uh, we we are now poised to read these leaks
Let's do it excited looking at them. This is so this is the I guess it comes in three portions. It's the um
And it's all been updated and expanded how the fuck did did they just leak the script at this point?
You said three you said three portions and I couldn't help but think about knobs again. I don't know why wait. What?
Because you know, he's not
He's a larger man. He's not
He specifically has
He's uh, he squirreled out of that question with destiny. So who knows?
The portions question you just yeah, all I've got is what jiggy is
Well, but there's like videos of him like he can't get out of that. I know I know he's clearly a bigman
Does he identify as a bigman? I haven't you know, I didn't know identifying is gay
I've never been on a scale that's gay
So, uh, just to clarify right so, uh, jeremy ryan you both have read through this at some point. Yeah
Fortunately, unfortunately
So this is new for me rags. I believe that's bullshit and jay. Yep
Um, oh wait, I posted you guys twice. Okay, as long as you follow along
So which one do we do you want us? Do you want to use the first one?
Do you want to should we take turns in reading or do you want to do it rags?
I knew you like reading. What's what's uh, what should we do?
Like a take turns. I like taking turns gay
Free is gay sort of debate totally women. I could actually hear him like in this voice saying reading is gay
Just ask me if I want to read. Fuck you
Fuck you. Take that reading out of your mouth right now. What is this? I'm kind of a trial a test
Gonna be a suspicious amount of reading that you're like, you can read syllables in some of these words
You can't read right bro, because he's like fuck you
Oh
I was just asking you a question. Of course I can read a b c d e f g c
That's not the order they go in
lies
you
a b c d e f g
mostly
Um, so I mean yeah, I can I can go first if you guys want this should be uh
Interesting act one
two minutes
game of thrones leaks
Yeah, the was the funny thing was that the game of thrones leaks were like bullet points and there was like seven
And they were very simple. This is like somebody this is detail
Yeah, I was gonna say somebody's learned a lot about this. I guess so
Yeah act one the past unknown location. So I guess we're starting with a flashback then
Uh luke is training leah as a jedi lightsabers are involved
Leia reveals to luke that she is pregnant and leah makes the decision to end her jedi training
due to the impending birth of her son
All right, uh, I could have slowly already that ryan said that uh, she didn't get any training
Um at some point
JJ's like oh, yeah, you destroyed my guy's mask. Well, fuck you
It was it was either that was jj or ryan
But yeah, it doesn't matter I guess because uh, go behind your back and make the things you wrote make sense you cuck
When i've been making this for your themes
Yeah, because like it feels like a rap battle between jj and ryan
Where like one of them drops a movie the others like oh, no, here's my rebuttal and then jj's like ooh collin
Travaro got fired i'm coming back and i'm going to i'm gonna drop another first on ryan
I mean, this is a fucking disaster. None of this shit makes sense. None of it ties together
It's a cool thing contest between two stupid
little men
So and so one of the things that makes me like wonder when I first saw these leaks is we were told over and over again
That they were going to be using repurposed scenes from force awakens and tlj that didn't get out there
They weren't going to do any recreation for kerry fissure
So does that that has to mean that this scene was already filmed at some point?
either that
Either that bullshit and every line she delivers is facing like luke if you know what I mean
And uh, and they're all like a voice that doesn't quite sound like it because i'm assuming they didn't entirely use only lines
She'd already recorded. They must get like an impressionist or something
No, no, they're gonna they're gonna uh, they're gonna cut. Um, like there's gonna be a loud noise as layer speaking
And then luke goes what's that? You're saying layer you're pregnant
You lay it just speaks in barks
Layers layers typing a message to us lairs typing the message there. Look we're fucking a well. We do it over emison
Lawl i is preggers yo
What
It's all really awkwardly chopped up footage
So it's like layer saying I and that it cuts to like her saying am in a completely different location
I am with a son and there's a break it and then none
All right, so then it goes to the present so that's going to be an awkward
Opening if it's literally just I have a son i'm not going to train with you anymore next scene
Oh
Because it feels yeah, this is strange. It's like this is odd placement for this scene feels like this probably should whatever
So the present the resistance jungle base years after layer has picked up where her brother left off and has been helping ray learn that
Yeah, all right, she got the books I guess picked up where her brother left off
On the second day
She picks up the book the book has like a one to 100 guide on how to be a jenna and she's like
How far did loop get then ray is just like you've opened the book. That's further than he got
Step one throw the lightsaber step two be a dick. That's as far as we got
I mean, yeah the trailer because again, this is already matching the trailer
She's definitely training with layer and it's just like why are you training? You're already
You're already the best at everything
Is this is this establishing that layer has been trained as a jedi so that ray can continue being trained by layer?
I guess even though it just said that layer didn't finish her training. I guess she's a half jedi
You can train ray to become a quarter jedi or something
Teach ray how to fly
Yeah, I mean she's gonna be like
These are the things you could do as a jedi like a huge list that they're all ticked for ray
And she's like have you got anything you can't do she's like can't fly yet. Like all right. Let's try it
All right. You remember that mountain you picked up earlier just tried that and he's like, oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah
Then
She's like, okay
Push away from earth and that will make you fly just like okay. Cool. She ends up pushing earth away from her like it's that powerful
Lay's like oh shit
Um, I wasn't scared then but I have now so when ray jumps she just pushes the planet down
Yeah
And then it returns to her
Everyone else like whoa
Like oh shit
But ray is first seen doing some med meditative mental force training, but it's struggling with it. I
Okay, that's how you don't these leaks aren't real that can't be true
Her lip twitched she's struggling
In frustration, she asks layer if she can do a physical training course instead
This is what we see ray doing in the jungle forest in the d23 first
Look, it appears that ray has more physical fortitude than she has mental strength. Uh,
Okay, I don't think that's true
Of course, so I don't pretty sure her mental strength is through the fucking roof
But yeah, I mean like at the very start when she started using it she beat kylo at it
With her mental strength over his and he trained. Yeah
Yeah, she was able to resist kylo's probes. She well and she used that moment
They later explained right in all the novelizations that they she used some force download method
That's explaining how like she she it makes sense. It makes yeah, she
They had to make it makes sense. So she downloaded all that she knows from that mental link
Uh, but evidently she's even more uh has even more prowess physically than mentally
Oh gosh, that's some lazy storytelling right there
Yeah, so then we moved to forest planet bathed in red light
So I remember that in the trailer as well supreme leader supreme leader kylo ran around forest run
So he's the supreme leader now, all right has been made aware of a dark power supreme leader in the last one by the end of it
right, but
Yes, but I just like it just
It doesn't change anything
It also sounds awkward. Yeah
Like what difference does it make he doesn't take orders from snow kyle ben wanted the exact same things
Anyway, uh kylo ren has been aware of a dark power behind his predecessor and former master snoke. Yeah, well
Yeah, okay because snoke himself wasn't that powerful really
He's a loser
Uh kylo's been spending his time as leader of the first order with the purpose of locating this power
Generals hux and pride have been following kylo around on his quest
And are beginning to get frustrated with what they see as a fool's errand
um
Fair enough. They see this as a waste of the first order's time and resources. Well
I'm curious what they think the first order should be doing i'm guessing
It'd be the first time they'd acknowledge the fact that the first order want to rule the galaxy. Yeah, I don't know
Yeah, they've never really acknowledged what their purpose is. We just want to be doing general nazi things
Yes, like can we kill some children or something gosh?
Yeah, we're just being evil in space
um, also, yeah pride is played by um
Fuck i've forgotten his name
Very very no very popular older british actor. Um, well matt smith not necessarily popular but awesome
But a lot of people pointed out. He is a white man named pride. I wonder if there's something going on there. I was just like, oh
When we catch up with the villains of our story kylo is leading an assault
On this planet with the purpose of finding darth vader's wayfinder device. What?
Wayfinder halo. That's what I just think of halo. I know it's way through a website, but I just think halo
It was it's just like it was a macguffin in the first one and jj's got it again
It's like it's a macguffin again, but it's darth vader's macguffin. You're like, oh
The thing that this character has it is about to a thing
Um the past let it die
Unless we need marketing the device reveals coordinates within the
Unknown regions and kylo is confident that this will reveal the source of snook's power
Okay, because it's not like because you gotta have a source of power. You can't like train or anything
You can't actually become skilled or knowledgeable. You can't, you know practice god forbid
And you're you are the power. No, you have to take it from somewhere else
Oh, yeah, you have to be plugged in to something else richard e garand. Uh, that is the name. I was thinking oh, yeah
Oh, he's he's good. What's he doing in this? Yeah, I know I know
I was about to say rohan atkins
Uh
Kylo Ren slaughtered his way through the natives and has eventually led to the oracle who gives him the way fine
Oh my goodness the oracle
We always need wood. Oh, it's got it's like please be a spider you can click on it
You can click on the oracle spider and then it leads us to
Oh, there's a chance right? There's like there was a chance that they like that they think
That it's going to be like some spidery alien
I hope I hope there's a spider in this place. Please be a spider in the scene of some kind
Go big or go home. The oracle is the spider
Fine. Yeah. Oh, no, wait, if there's a spider in the scene, like the oracle is a fraud
It's just listening to what the spider says
Uh, actually
Well, apparently next to the leak that if you click the oracle it brings up another thing
And one of the bullet points is when we pick up with kylo story in episode nine
He's still struggling between the light side and the dark side
like how at what fucking point I
What light side thing has he done?
Um, he thought about it before he fucking killed hon. I suppose
He didn't kill his mom, I guess that's about the only thing
Um, well he he failed to kill her as far as I know but he tried
So, I know you guys mentioned spiders, but uh, so evidently this takes place in a swamp and we scroll down that oracle thing
a trek
it says, uh
Let's see. I'm personally into it feels a bit of inspired by ralph mccquarrie kind of like a mix between the digger bus spiders
and the digger bus creature
Give us the spider give the spider
Um, I was gonna say who wants to do the next well three or so, I guess
Uh, i'll do it
sure
All right
So asteroid base we pick up with finn and po on the millennium falcon accompanied by a handful of unfamiliar alien characters
Traveling to an icy asteroid base to meet the first order
Informant the informant an alien is acting as a middleman between the first order and the mole and our heroes
Oh the first order mole which is supposed to is that going to turn out to be hux. That's what I've heard hux. Yes
What hux this is the thing hux might be the most inconsistent character already just from these leaks now
Uh-oh, it turns out all that your mom jokes really swayed him
Dude
I'm gonna do the psychopath thing and watch all of the films before watching the new one
Yes, the last jedi will be viewed again
And I know for a fact when they reveal that he's evil i'm gonna be like, okay
I got a few questions to ask about like a lot of these
I love the idea that his incompetence is now they're trying to explain it would be like he's a good guy
It's like but he seems very invested in killing these people. It's like nope. Nope. Nope. He's just about
It's just an act just an act and you fell for it. Ha ha ha see
Okay
Reach for his gun when snoke is unconscious kylo. And yeah
All right. Well, I mean that you can explain that by him being a yeah, I know I know you can
I know I mean that's the explanation ryan was probably going for but like I don't know the ryan was going for this
I don't know
No, no, no i'm saying that ryan was almost certainly going for hux just being selfish and wanting power. Yeah. Yeah
um, but like
Would it be inconsistent if he's a mole?
I I think that that's kind of the way that they are probably going to go about that they're going to do it
Whether it's jealousy or whether he wants to take it over from kylo
I think that's probably what they're going to go for. Um a character
Secretly being a traitor the whole time is the equivalent of at the end of the film they woke up and it was all a dream
Oh, yeah, it's it's well, not if it's well full of shadowed, which it isn't
Yeah
Because I was gonna say this this is such a fucking thing to be like aha all of your criticisms were wrong now
And it's like no they've just they're just different now like all of this
What is what is with that scene then where he's like?
What's the point of all this if we can't kill all of these people and he's like, sorry
We can't catch up to them. See it. It's just like oh, that's a that's a thing for a mole to do
And so it is it is a time jump so
This is just what I think it's gonna be stupid either fucking way
But what I think is that it's going to be like after a couple years, right hux and pride
Whatever this guy's name are pissed off that they're not doing anything
So maybe he's going to work with the resistance to uh, to try to get kylo taken out of power
Maybe that's his like end goal
Yeah, it's going to create issues no matter what but I think that that would make more sense than him having been a mole
The whole time that's going to be funny if they make that happen
This is like this is like the second best player
on a soccer team
secretly paying off
someone on the other team
To injure the star player so that he can be the best player on the field on his own team
What you said made more sense though because what he's going to be doing
They're going to destroy the team and like that in forward will be like yay now i'm the best on this team that's destroyed
I mean is that hux the one who blew up five planets
Yes
Yeah, which by the way, um
If he would I would have a problem with them letting him get away with that if he turned out to be someone who was like
Oh, i'll help now
Yeah, yeah
He got a tremendously long hill to climb my friend
but yes
so moving on
Kylo is struggling between the light and the dark
They've touched fingers once and that's a struggle my friend
That's kylo's story in every movie
Like do you remember when force awakens finished a lot of people were happily concluding. It's like yep. He's on the dark side for sure
And then the clj they're like, well, no, no, no, it's 50 50 and at the end of it
They're like, yep, he's on the dark side for sure
The third movie
No, no, no, no, no, he could do he's stuff
No, no shirt off in front of woman see struggle
God this this is going to end up being this trilogy is going to be
So going to be incredibly disjointed once it's all said and done
I mean it already is we know that but once we actually see this film
I think this is going to make the last shot eye even worse, which is amazing to say
Yeah, I think that's a guarantee you said said and done. Uh, I don't see it done
I mean, oh I guess well he said this trilogy so
Yeah, we'll see
Uh, you know trilogy is a loose term. You don't really know how many films are going to be in a trilogy
Well, yeah, do you guys know didn't jj originally intend to get two parts to this film?
At one point you mentioned. Yeah at one point because I remember reading about it
He he quoted saying you were those rumors the rumors were out there
But I don't want I don't think I don't think jj's ever specifically said anything about that
I I made a video a long time ago talking about the only way this movie could even be
Acceptable as if it was two parts
That's the thing. That's what I would ask for if I was given the reins. I'd be like, can I have two?
I might be able to fix it in two not one
I don't know if I can do this in one. Yeah
Yeah
Because there's no way you can fix the last jedi and complete this the story in one movie in one two hour two and a half
Hour movie. This is just going to be a disaster. And again, i'm still lobbying for creed to do the opening crawl
I want to hear creed seeing the open crawl
Why not rebecca fred rebecca friday rebecca black that's it she should do
because
First of all scott step needs to work and I want to see them use that wind machine where he's got his shirt unbuttoned
And it's blowing in the wind and he's just singing the opening crawl. That's my dream come true
I want to see this happen
Uh, and i'm not going to give up on hope I believe disney is stupid enough to do it
So i'm going to keep lobbying for it
I'm with maul. I want I want rb rebecca black out there
It's star wars
Gotta get with that star wars
What the fuck's happening with star?
It's about space wizards for children children
Just go back to the mandalorian
Well, that's the funny thing about the mandalorian
It's like we're all gonna have a discussion about it, right?
Like it's to be disco while this film we're all just looking at this giant film with a clown face
We're like, oh there he is. Look at him
Oh, yeah, that's right the the main movies
Yeah
Right then my my ideal ending I think to episode nine would be
It all ends. It doesn't even matter how it ends and then the final scene
Is a young luke skywalker wakes up and he's sweating and like a fever dream like he had a terrible nightmare
And then he looks around and he's on indoor and there's a bunch of partying e walks and he just had too much
Fucking e walk booze to drink
He passed out and had a terrible terrible dream and I was like, oh luke. Are you okay?
He's like, yeah, I just had this fucking terrible nightmarish fever dream
Thank god, it's all over and it didn't actually happen because that would be insane if it did
Oh, he like holds up a mirror. Oh my god. I'm not awful
I'm so glad to be me
Yeah, there were so many memes like that
So as a big expanding universe guy when they you know 2014 was like, yeah, we're doing our own thing now
There's so many memes like that of uh, you know, luke waking up in bed next to mara jade and being like
I just had a terrible dream list off all the shit that's not there anymore
And then she's like what did it he was like, it was a fucking mouse. She's like, let's kill it
So that that would be perfect
Anyway kicking on I guess with the next I don't I don't want to know anymore. I've already read it
We got rebecca black we're good
It's like a video game when you start thinking about how this old thing plays
It sounds like a video game where you have to have something that tracks you to this certain location
Yeah, he thinks that they got the story after or like a tracking fob to lead you to the exact location of a bounty
Yeah, pretty much but then the bad man shows up. Ooh
I thought I was dead, but I was wrong
I really won't that's either
His hands high in the air and his fingers wiggling
Don't you know ray?
Like a ghost when they find him
Did you guys know a terminator video game came out like this week? Yes. What's that? Yeah
Oh boy, i'm gonna have to look into this now later. Is it any good? I'm guessing not it's it's 86 positive on steam
But fall in order is like 90 percent. So who the fuck knows what that means
Fall in order like fine. Do you not like fall in order?
Six out of ten
I haven't I haven't gotten too far into it, but i'm enjoying it so far
It's not a shit show which at this point is what everyone's looking for from star wars. It's not a shit
I haven't heard of this. How did this a terminator?
Game came out because I have never heard of this because it released the same time as pokemon and fall in order
Like what the hell is it doing?
Go next week, dude
My wish list to not because I want it because I don't want to forget about it. Yeah, me too. How interesting
Maybe it's not terrible. Why I watched a couple videos about it's been about what it looks very meh
The mechanic it's the first person shooting the gun mechanics like okay
There's a like rpg light elements you can upgrade like how how well you can lock pick
But then, you know, you're thinking to yourself like oh, that sounds kind of cool
But it's like oh there's only like select things to lock picks. It's just not that meh
This is the this is the little
the description
Terminator resistance is a first person shooter set during the future war scenario
That was only glimpsed at in the iconic films the terminator and t2 judgment day
The machines are destined to lose but at what cost?
Well, I guess they're ignoring everything else. That's fine with me
All right
Just like right just like anything smart would do
except anything bad on dark fate
The bad people are gonna lose don't worry, but it would cost
I don't fucking know. Are you gonna invent? Are you gonna invent a character for me to give a shit about in this video game?
Terminator props to you if you manage to pull it off consider me dubious
dubious
Yeah, i'm gonna keep an eye on that you'll see
So, um back to the leaks here
uh
Disinformant an alien is acting as a middleman between the first order mole and our heroes the first order arrives and begins attacking the base
the assault causes forces
our heroes to make a hasty exit by what was described as
light springing
Away, okay. Wait, wait, so this film really close to the beginning has the resistance
Are the rebels fleeing from their base after being attacked by the okay?
Mm-hmm. All right light springing away
So light springing involves making the jump to light speed without plotting a course or a predetermined destination
So wait a minute. Hang on if that's a thing then how have that how has light speed collisions not happened yet?
If that's a thing well han warns that they're a possibility right in the new hope. I mean because the chances are
astronomically low
but it's still not a wise decision, uh, the part that was getting me I read ahead a little bit there was that um
It makes it so that uh, the first order can't follow their trail. Um
That's what that was the thing that was the thing I was talking about where
Because of ryan's stupid new rule of a hyperspace tracker jj was forced to be like
How do we prevent a hyperspace tracker now?
And their idea is you do a bunch of hyperspaces all over the place that aren't even coordinated and it throws them off
And i'm just like oh so that's like it's weird because that's considered in a lot of science fiction
especially if you go back to a lot of the short stories that were
made back even going back to the
60s 70s
When you had you know, the I get you some call it the golden age of science fiction stories
but
The idea that you would just make a wormhole jump or a slip space jump or whatever a warp jump
And not plot a course was basically suicide
Because you could end up anywhere and have no idea where you are and you have no way to get back to anything
And most of space like 99.9999999999 percent of space is just black void anyway
that essentially you're essentially committing suicide by
jumping in space without having a
Coordinate set in I just love the idea that that stops you from being tracked like it's like how how are we not able to follow?
Them? Well, they didn't know where they were going when they left so
Does the tracker like hack the tracker reads their minds
well, no is is the tracker supposed to be like a bug
in the um or like a like a mole a virus that
uploads the
the coordinates
That would have made more sense if they literally just had a tracker on the ship
Like it's been I still think which can happen in star wars
They should have made holdo a mole and she planted that onto their ship moldo moldo. Yes
But we can't do that. That would have ruined everything
for
And like like you said rags and pretty much all forms of science fiction including a lot of star wars before
You know disney bought it. Um, it was considered suicide and because you could run into a sun you could run to a black hole
You could run to a planet whatever the hell if you didn't use coordinates
But it wouldn't stop it from tracking you because they're just going to look at the angle you took to determine
Where you're going?
Um, because uh, you know that that's how it works how far I guess and yeah with the with the scale of space
It's one of those it's it's like picking it's like having it like a map of the universe. Hang on
And then you just randomly throw a dart. That means
They could have just light sprung in tlj, right?
Well, yeah, and then they I they could have just then the film wouldn't be able to happen though. What the fuck you can't
Boo
Problem god damn it also they call it light springing
Why not?
They kind of come up with something
I'd just like to point out that that this conversation and the specifics you guys are discussing is proof that you hate women
Oh shit, sorry
Damn it. You got me. I ran right into that one
You fooled. I don't need proof of that. I was I was just set up. I was setting you all up
I was letting you talk about the specifics. Was it the power I said boo? That's like a really big anti-women dog whistle
That's like that's half of the word boobies. Yep. Those aren't
Those are those are like, you know, you're trying to say men kind of boobies
No, no, no, no, no, no, but women do have those well a lot of the time you guys boob out of this damn it
You guys remember that the first halo game
Began essentially with the pillar of autumn making a blind slip space jump into space
Okay, then because that's basically again, like that's basically suicide to do but they do it to get away from the covenant
That's how like that's like in the halo books. That's such a big
That's a big deal making a slip space jump without any coordinates
Just to lead them just to get them to follow you somewhere random in space essentially
Like that's a big big deal. That's how halo begins essentially hold it light spurting
Just to make us all uncomfortable whenever they say it
also, um
Uh southpaw highlighted what if it like in this film they established that they only discovered this recently as a solution to the lights
hyper stripe tracking thing
Yeah, that's the only way they can explain that's the only way they can explain it
Yeah, I should hope so. Especially we got we get light squirting. How about light squirt?
Light smirking
Uh, all right, that's coordinates. I I didn't did did they did the pillar actually have
coordinates to installation 04
Uh, it's been a really long time i'd have to relook stop light splitting
All right, um
Also, how far can you so are they gonna explain to us how far?
You can go with the single
Jump because jumps still take time. Well, I think we have to wait for the film on this one
This sounds dumb and i'm sure they're gonna fuck it up
Yeah, we're definitely going to fuck it up. Yeah right now we just kind of have the cliff notes. So, um
Light spring involves jumps at which speed of course a pretty different negotiation as we all remember making a light jump
Making the jump to light speed with without precise calculations would have dire consequences such as flying right through a star or bouncing
Too close to a supernova
The falcon makes a handful of these springs to throw off the first order off their trail
But as a result, they are forced to deal with the consequences of such risky maneuver after surviving fly into a sun
How do you deal with the consequent
It sounds like they're gonna have the ship is gonna be like this
Gonna be like you're either just fine or you're just dead before you know, what happened. There's gonna be an alarm sounding
There'll be pieces of things falling off. There'll be like bits of gas going
And they're like, oh no, like oh what happened? Oh, no
status report, uh
But it'll be fine. It's just gonna be screaming
It'll be fun
Now that we know what happens when a a ship hit something else going at light speed
You have a whole galaxy of people doing this constantly
Like it's a normal thing to have hyperspace engines on your ships like man imagine the chaos and the carnage
Yeah, and yet although was the first one to crash through ships in light speed. Uh, bullshit
Have you guys heard that she's gonna be in this in rise of skywalker that lord dern's gonna be in
For fuck's sake she better not be a force ghost. Oh, it'll be so funny
She appears at the end for like the victory lap of the trilogy when they're like looking to all great characters a good met along the way
So that's her appearance. Yeah, they have um
uh
You know they've got
actually
Jay your idea
I prefer the idea that we're seeing that like poe and fin and ray are all standing like everyone's like clapping
It's amazing. We scan through different people who have survived. They're all there. That holder was just amongst them as the camera passed
Just offered to be there and it's like wait, but didn't you die doing the hyperspace ramp?
Hyperspace ramps are impossible. You fucking idiot. Oh
All she says no, I just I just autopilot today. What am I stupid?
I jumped out
I just wanted I just had to have you believe that I was dead
Because oh no, no something if palpatine is back to life
Then the light had to rise to meet it and that's her back to life as well. Oh, no. She's the ultimate good person
Or it's like that simpson spit what ralph. I thought you were dead. Nope
Oh my goodness
All right. All right
After surviving the dangers of light springing our heroes plot a course to the secret resistance jungle base
lucky
Yeah, all that all those
That crazy carnage happens and then when it's over it's like oh, no, that was that was a thing moving on
We turned it we won the lottery on that one guys
Well, I don't why don't people do this more often man. It's that easy
The unknown regions exegol
after obtaining vader's device
Kylo travels to the space the place specified by the wayfinder
It takes him to the unknown regions and the and a dead planet of flat black rock. I previously reported
Huh?
That just sounds like video game
Well, why don't they why do they call it the wayfinder it's just it's just a set of coordinates
Yeah, it's a map to luke skywalker
It's a map to luke skywalker god jj fucking sucks
Jesus
You know he'll make a ted talk about fucking
MacGuffins and you'll talk about how important they are for people and how we love macguffins since since the dawn of time macguffins man
We need them. We love macguffin boxes
What are macguffins but mystery boxes
I previously reported that the planet where kylo finds vader's wayfinder was called exegol
Since then my understanding has evolved. Okay, who's talking here?
This is the guy I guess doesn't understand the leaker the lights the lights squirter
Someone's talking here. They don't really specify since then my understanding has evolved that
I've been told that this planet actually bears that name
Kylo lands outside a giant cube floating just above the ground and begins walking toward it
Kylo walks between the cube and the ground and once he reaches the center
He discovers an elevator leading down below the planet's surface
What the fuck is this?
So I imagine this like monolithic thing. Yeah, just above the ground and he decides to fucking walk under it
You can guarantee there's gonna be so much stylish like look to this whole thing
Like it's gonna be filmed in such a way that's gonna create such well-composed shots
And we're just gonna be so mysterious. It's gonna look cool. I'm sure of it
What the fuck is even happening right now the cube
the cube of geju goo badongo
ancient jedi relic
Exegol sounds like a star gas station exegol
All right, so he
Come by get him a guffin
Yeah, he follows tail lift down that's a typo
Down and finds an old man near death and lying in bed. You know, it's not a fucking new ass character
They made up on this spot. You don't know
Is this gonna be tail lift is a is an alien
This is a fucking emperor in the yeah
Yep, tail lift the emperor
So tail lift down and finds an old man near death and lying in bed and being tended to by a cloaked aids
my sources
Aids oh no, not aids the full hang of the full gate of aids
Oh no failed
Aids
My source believes that these aids to be referred to as sith loyalists
Do not call my aids sith loyalist it's offensive
In our defense, it is funny
Full-blown sith loyalist full full-blown syphilis
It's
Uh, i'm sorry the old
The old man identifies himself as darth
He was here it's old man winters the whole time you're on this planet having a vacation
Kylo initially dismisses the old man knowing that the emperor has died over 30 years prior over the forest moon of and
All right. Yeah, when we have the film being like no you're dead fuck up film. I know you bring it back. Shut the fuck up
This is so bad
Feeling that this must be it. This is not good at all. This is veiled aids right now veiled aids
Cloaked aids close syphilis
Still syphilis
Feeling that this must be a trick kylo claims that there must be some other explanation such as this man must
Such as this man being a clone
My sources specifically tell me that the that the palpatine
Refutes the idea of him being a clone and affirms that he survived his fall. Fuck off
Well, it wasn't just it wasn't just the fall. There was a subject
Plosion that should have finished him off
I like the idea that he's like explain how you survive. It's like I survived the fall like okay, but there was another thing that happened
So like after the fall when the the planet sized spaceship exploded into nothing it was annihilated
I got I got better. I used the forest to reform my atoms
Stick it
This is why you know when they brought when they brought mall back when they brought darth maul back in the clone war
You know everybody freaked out because they love darth maul
But when you bring a character back who's been literally cut in fucking half and fallen like kilometers down a shaft
You can fucking bring anyone back. Yeah, well, maybe
Maybe the maybe it was like cloud city when luke fell it ended in a slope at the end
So it's he slowly slid, you know
Wait, maybe that's what happened
half of his body slid
And he couldn't he didn't have any legs
So well, I guess the legs fell with him, but he couldn't move him. So his he could
Couldn't stop himself. He just had his two arms and he was a little little out of it
You know, he's a little confused. What's going on
um
Naboo didn't explode as far as I fucking know. I I I hope one of those planets wasn't abu
actually, fuck it. I hope it was I don't give a shit and
and I guess just
You he he got better
He had a wayfinder. He had a wayfinder
Palpatine survived because the fall uh when he you know fell that gave him aids
Uh, but then the explosion gave him aids again and it canceled out. I was gonna say space aids act differently
That fought other aids. Yeah
How much do you think this has to do with the fact that that ryan killed snoke and they just don't have a they don't have
A big baddie. So they're like hey, let's bring back palpatine. Yep. Exactly 100 percent that
Yeah, it's like what if kylo's our big baddie? He's going who oh, right
I've always pictured that um
Like if just picture jj didn't see tlj don't know anything about it up until it was released and he was like
What'd you do with snoke by the way and he was like killed him?
He's like what do you mean?
He's like it was never really about snoke he's about kylo and he's like, yeah
It was it's a dart just about kylie. It's about more than one. Just what are you why? What are you about family?
So kylo's the big problem now, right like no kylo can't win anything
God fucking damn it, dude. That is true. That's sort of both our faults. But um
What happens?
He's back
He's like the one thing i've got is that yes, she beat him in a sword fight
But in a force fight kylo is going to destroy her and then again ryan's like
I can't do that at all. It's like what what do you mean? She she beats him in the foot. What are you cut down?
Yeah, think about this mauler
You remember you remember the uh the the little bit of text you sent me yesterday on the notes for today's show
You know, we you've planned out efap better than they did this equal
trilogy
I mean as with your little bitty couple of sentences, we're gonna cover this this and this jeremy
When this film releases as much as jj is gonna get a shit ton of all kinds of comments from all different kinds of fans
He will probably be like it's done
It's fucking done. I can live my life i'm fucking free of the star wars
I can go live my life in peace and happiness
Well, except he's going to warner brothers to run the entire dc universe. So we have that to wait. He is
Yes
Well, that needed to be worse. Oh my goodness. I didn't I didn't I didn't I need to hear that
Yeah
First trailer for the first movie done by him. It's like, you know batman had this device
No, no, no, no, no
Batman so open batman had a map to luke skywalker. He's like no jj. No
Batman it's not right
This is um star wars everybody this is it's just like fucking joke the whole thing
Oh, so yeah, there's
Keep going on i'm curious of the leaks explain if kylo's like oh you survived the how i was gonna say
We've got so much left. This is exciting. There's so much to work with here
Let's hear this explain
So after his defeat at endor he left the known galaxy and traveled to the unknown regions to rebuild his empire
Okay, so we're not gonna talk about the explosion
Yeah, he he survives the exploding death star
catches a ride someplace
lays low for a little bit, you know
He doesn't do this
Opportunity to regroup the empire
I can't imagine how awkward the exposition is going to be in this scene because this is something that we all have wanted to hear
Since force awakens and it's like
How did I survive did I went to a place?
Rebuilt the I could just imagine it's like after the explosion
He's just like this ship is just kind of floating through the area and then palpatine like is against their windshield and knocks
Hey, can I have a ride?
Like like like thor and in uh in infinity war. Yeah, exactly
I guess it's it's weird if that's the reason that he gives because wouldn't the best time to
Why why would he not?
Immediately go back to the rest of the empire and say all right. We're not done like I still have an empire
Right. No, like we're not finished
Yeah, because this was the interesting thing about the empire a lot of people like you kill the death star
It's all gone. It's like no, no loads is left. But the interesting thing is that you cut the head off
So what all of the lower sections do do they panic do they split apart?
And that seems to be something mandalorian is exploring. I don't I don't know what it's going to do with it
But um, I like that it's cool the idea that the empire splits into different smaller factions
So yeah, the emperor building in the first episode of the mandalorian then in all the sequel trilogy
That's what get us
If kylo asks any kind of question along the lines of like try and make this make sense
The emperor is just gonna be like starting to giggle like come on, mate
I can't make this make sense. No, really. I don't have an answer
So who was snoke? Oh god, are they gonna answer that is he gonna
Is snoke gonna be like a puppet or some shit from what I hear and I don't I don't know if it's in these leaks
From what I I don't think it's in these leaks. There was another uh leak I heard where
uh, kylo's explanation will be said but it's going to be a bit of
Uh, like a dialogue of like passing dialogue. It's not even gonna throw away line throw away. Yeah, i'm gonna get a throw away line for snoke
Yep, yeah
It's it's probably gonna make me explode in the cinema
Snoke was a hologram
What the
All right, so so star wars it's great it's still good it's still good. It's still good. It's still good
It's still good. It's great. It's not bad yet. I don't know what you guys are talking about
Three second rule
Three second or three movies. Yeah
Yeah, six depending on your point of view or seven or eight movie rule
So despite his skepticism palpatine begins to reel kylo in and subsequently tells him of something
Something known something known as force dead
Oh my god, could that just be why is he false dad?
Oh
Gosh, what is this? Keep keep reading keep keep going
But yeah something that consists of two elements or parts
Okay, dad, come on, you want to read it read it read it
The force produces two incredibly strong users and when they unite together both become a stronger than either one could be on their own
So it's it's dbc fusion
This is happening we're doing it grow
This is one of those things that as he explains this like we're in the audience like no, no, no stop stop
Stop roll it back pump the brakes pump the brakes. Stop it
I would like to see the the last the last little shreds the the the few tiny remnants of something you love
Just get crushed on screen
Just I never thought it would be pal palpatine is the ultimate villain because he's taking
Just the the last remnants of star wars and he's the one who's killing it. Truly palpatine is the ultimate villain of star wars
Killing star wars itself
You see here in the theater just every person is like getting upset except for like the three relos that are there who are just going crazy
Oh, yes force diet. I do it. Oh my god, they're gonna have to have sex to defeat palpatine. This was my dream
I can't wait to role play this
Will you be my force dad
I'm so sorry. I don't know why oh, yes, eric. Fuck me harder kill the emperor
All right do his voice
It's killing me really
So
Oh my god, let's let's uh, let's go over that one more time
The force produces two incredibly strong users and when they unite together both become stronger than either one of them can be on their own
Mm-hmm. The palace really has turned into the mcguffins like the force just oh my god
Okay
I guess I remember when it was like special that anakin was like made by the force
Remember that was a special thing like now now the force is just cranking them out whenever they need to happen
Palpatine believes that kylo Ren and ray to be the two halves of this
Ed shares this knowledge with ray note
I previously wrote that palpatine wanted them to become master and apprentice
Since then this has been clarified to me as palpatine seeking the two members of the diad
Wait a second. Wait, wait, so palpatine shares this with ray when?
Uh, well, I think like he's sharing this with kylo and ray is like unaware right now
before skype
It said that she it's shared with ray who's sharing this with ray where's she where's she there?
like
Did I she was one of the aids and shares this knowledge with ray? No, you're right
It says that alpatine believes kylo ren and ray to be the two halves of this diad and shares this knowledge with ray
Yeah, so where was ray? Where the fuck is ray? Is she like eavesdropping?
It might be a skype call skype call could be in yeah
Yeah, she could be she's typing in totally these guys begin watching all this play out right then and there
She thought she was going to see another shirtless kylo
And uh, well, I would love it if they commit to it and like the shots
The shots of ray having it explained to her all of her face like shoulders and up
Then when the scene is over it just pans back out. She's on the toilet. Like this whole fucking time was very serious conversation
She was just like
Probably have the same look on her face
Her pants are down nowhere equal now, huh?
I'd love for that to happen. And then she said how I haven't seen all that would be great. How dare you?
How dare you how dare you you stole my child know that
Seeking how between seeking the members of the diad what the fuck is this?
The members of it's a it's a mission in world of warcraft. You have to reform the diad and see
Something space bullshit magic spell fucking bullshit
You'll never awaken a dreamer blah blah blah
right
so palpatine claims that he seeks the diad because
He is weak and dying and wants wants the diad to rule together once he's gone now. He's weak and dying. Yeah, okay
Okay, explosion really took the energy out of it
Yeah, because i'm i'm really i'm really wondering how old he is at this point. It's like jesus christ. It's around a hundred
Yeah
He's like i'm almost dead. That's what dying does to you
He's been bleeding out for 30 years
I have a lot of blood
I have it still falling
It's called forced blood if you collect it all you can make a forced diad
Palpatine orders kylo to bring rey to him and turn her so that the diad will be strong
unified forces of the diad
What the fuck is happening it sounds like a like a die like an actual like
This this floating cube is the diad that they have to power it or something. We're just like what?
See, so this was the thing about uh, the the ninth episode
I remember talking to this about this with the whole like to repair
Is gonna take a lot of work, but fuck it. They're just doing their own thing. They're just going with it. It's like going
Repairs, I don't think so. We're just we're gonna the diad. That's what we're doing with the way fight
Just wait diad strategy diad strats
Just wait to the last the next sentence. The next sentence is more ridiculous
Okay. All right. So palpatine also reveals that he has been amassing an army of star destroyers equipped with darth
Star tech death star tech. Sorry i'm i'm
My eyes are blurry here each one capable of destroying a planet on its own
Bigger more deadlier
this is
This is more dude. This is the meme jj
Are you unaware of this like this will be to think of you you're like
I could destroy one you get one death star one planet in the originals
Okay, one death star one one planet at the end of of the originals
You're like, oh, yeah, so they kept it the stakes are relatively the same new one one planet
One one well one planet death star five planet kills you're like, oh
Army of them infinite planet kills infinite
What each boom boom boom boom boom? It's gonna be oh, can you imagine he's gonna fucking palpatine?
What are you what are you ruling over?
They're all if you're gonna blow up all the planets. What's there to rule over?
Dude i'm picturing a scene we're gonna live on
Asteroids i'm picturing a nightmare scene for one of the characters where they imagine what happens and it's just this like this is a billion dollar cgi
Scene where it just blasts all over the universe and rocks and fire everywhere and jj is just like this is star wars
Have you guys heard the rumor about ray lifting the death star over jakku
Jakku is it? Yeah, it was jakku
Wait, what?
Well, so when we get a little further down, I think that there's I think that was a misinterpretation of the leaks
I think that it's going to be on this plan that we get to later in the leaks. Okay. Okay. Yeah
I thought it was jakku at least that's the first one that I saw but uh,
Am I get it mixed up either way either way? It doesn't really matter what planet it is
The fact that that's even out there and the fact that that we can actually believe that it's possible just shows what type of nonsense
I swear to god if this is a parody
This is a parody if she moves it like a star destroys the point of like crashing it or pushing it whatever else in the
Cinema, I want someone in the cinema to throw popcorn at the screen, please
No
Because so a little later on they're gonna because this fucking wayfinder leads them to a part of the death star and it's
This massive piece that's randomly in an ocean. I'm pretty sure we're gonna see her lifted out of the water
Yeah, probably I hope at this point. I do hope it happens. I mean the more nonsense the better for me at this point
I have no
Expectation for this movie other than to laugh at it. Yeah, go for it. Just fucking go
We take alcohol to the theater
It's comedy. You can you can do that. I'm gonna put it in a bowl
I'm not gonna check your pockets. It'll just be vodka and i'll be like this is plain water
Just take it in a medicine bottle
Yeah, the only the only uh only bringing my medicine in the theater what I need it for my diabetes
Was joker, so I think it'll be good
Anyway, this is the movie that really has the shooting at it
So, yeah palpatine what is that next line what rounding up children so pal
Yes palpatine reveals that he has been amassing an army of star destroyers equipped with death star tech allowing it capable of destroying a planet
On its own generals hucks and pride are tasked with rounding up children in large numbers to train and staff is armada
rounding up children just
And I was gonna highlight children tend to have adults around them, uh, and those adults can be pesky
Now we've already established that there's like planets of slave children, that's okay
You can't even specify that it just it makes it sound like they just visit random planets like godly kids will take them
They visit with like a like a wave
The black ships from war hammer
Well, all they gotta do from planet to planet and take all the kids and they'll be back in 10 years or whatever
They can start with uh, they can start with canto bite with all the unrescued children. Just take those
Oh
We're not the horses you monster take the children instead, please
Just take our horses
Ooh
Whooey, I think we're uh
Almost halfway through this right. We're already dying
All right, uh, we ready to move on sure uh, yes, all right
so
The resistance is jungle base
Finn and po return another base
This is the one that ray was being trained on is it the jungle I believe so. Yeah, okay
Uh, they return to the resistance base burying the knowledge obtained from their encounter with the first order informant
This duo brings this knowledge to general lea and tell her what they know about kylo's mission to the unknown regions
But without any leads to where he went or how he got there the resistance is at a dead end again, man. I was gonna say
Remember like she carrying fishers dead
Well, this is gonna be odd
We're gonna be watching all of us gonna be watching this confused like exactly how what trickery is being used at all times
Also, I like that it says the resistance at a dead end
It's like how many of them are even there to acknowledge this? Is it 20 still or have they just got a brand new army from nowhere?
Actually, they're gonna have a brand new army brand new army. Yeah
brand new army
Laya mentions that she has a contact who is seeking a link in the unknown regions long ago and may be willing to help
Laya dispatches the two of them along with ray chubaka bb8 and c3po to passana
To meet with her contact and see what help you do. It's vital that you you go with him c3po
I know how reliable you are. Well, he's he's gonna be the most important, right?
He's gonna get that upload or whatever's happening in the trailer. So I guess it's like r2d2 c3po
I really need you guys to go with them for reasons
Well again, I don't know where the hell r2d2 is
Uh, but bba and c3po are gone
So sure laya mentioned she has a contact who was seeking a link to the unknown regions
Long ago. Well, what does that mean? Exactly these days her? Yeah, forget it. Yeah, i'm confused too. Uh, all right
next up so
I'll read the next one too passana when our heroes arrive on the planet. They discover
That a giant festival is going on
What they thought would be an easy mission has now turned into a much more complicated affair. Oh god. No, there's a party
It's gonna be so much harder to blend in with all these people outside
No, this is our festival of no violets ever for any reason
I was like, oh shit chewy. What are you holding there? Is that is that a weapon? He's like no
uh, no, this is uh, um
A cigarette lighter there's uh, it's like other people cooking utensils
They they attempt to lay low and blend in
Unsurprisingly chewbacca struggles with blending in because it's very difficult to hide as seven foot
Damn good storytelling right there. So he's damn fine. I guess not all aliens are welcome then it's more of a
I I guess because they said it's hard to blend in it's like don't you just require to be a
Well, not even a human entity. You can just blend it. I guess these people are like hey
You're not one of us
One of us, uh, I suppose it depends. Yeah what what the planet is or whatever they have any visitors, but
uh
Ray encounters an alien in the crowds who takes a liking to her. No way
With the hand made necklace as a gift. I hope she just slaps out of his hand and beats a shit out of
I just I just like as a for a change
One of the characters that ray encounters is either interested in her or likes her what a crazy thing to have happen
Yeah, I would interview him later and be like so what actually were you interested in?
Just out of curiosity. Like what did you what did you see that? I cannot see the guy like reply that she's the protagonist
He's a protagonist. You're like, oh
I just really take a liking to women whose mouths are just a little open as they gaze into nothing
Yeah, I can just sense how fucking pure she is at a distance and I wanted to be some of that pure
Poon tang, I guess
Exactly. Just likes her so much. Just hands her another my alien cock in her amazingly perfect aura
Just in her aura yeah just in her aura her orifice one might even
Uh
She's asked her name and she responds ray when asked her family name she replies that she does not have one
Oh, this is a setup for a thing
She's a solo I have a doubt no, no, she's gonna say ray palpitied obviously
What a great thing to set up halfway through the last movie of your trilogy
uh
Let's see. Where was I? Uh, she probably she doesn't have one
At this time kylo establishes a connection with ray through their bond
Wait, so they can still do that even though
My god
He was the guy who did that. How do they have a bond?
Because apparently he opened it up and he left it open like a phone off the hook. That's how it works
Yeah, I I guess if you start a skype call and you die during the skype call it does stay
It it does stay open
Sure
What the fuck ever? I'm totally using that joke in the film. That's like the dialogue that they have
Wait, isn't isn't snoke dead and then they literally write
That's how they justify it's like it should be closed off it's like well, you know how skype works
Anytime they're not using the bond you see very faintly in the background
Do yeah just
Now kylo can watch you whenever you take a shower
All he did was uh, look at his uh force monitor and get her force contact number and that's it
I just like this is the time has passed right?
I just pictured that they got really like boring and normal for them to have these calls and eventually she like
They just have a call just like seeing new episode of batwoman. He's like no
No, it's better than a show
We didn't confirm that this takes place a year after the last jedi. Is that correct?
Yeah, it's at least a year. Um, yeah, but think about that. This entire trilogy is is like a year. It's all
Oh my gosh a lot of stuff happens in a year, I don't know
No for character
Including surviving a death star explosion. That's a pretty big one
Yeah, that's the fucking thing. I don't even understand what the fucking first order is
I don't I don't think we're gonna get an explanation of it in this one either
But I guess i'd have to read 80 million books in comics to figure it out
But yeah, they have no structure
At all and they don't you don't get a grasp that they're intimidating at all
They feel like they're they do feel like a parody of the empire, which is what they are
But they don't feel that it doesn't seem like they have any control in the galaxy and it doesn't seem like they're taken seriously
At all, we don't know anything about the government. It's just a joke
You know
It feels like the first order lives in a bad neighborhood and most people just stay away from it
That's kind of how it feels star wars, you know, like as those guys they shoot people every now and then just drive around
You know just so be in a space bad neighborhood come to you
All right, so their conversation ends with kylo grabbing the necklace from around raisin neck
Oh
assault
Sexist right there sexual harassment. Are you fucking kidding me?
This necklace proves to be the key for the first order to discovering their location
What? Oh
Okay, a random ass villager just says whoa. I like that chick. Here's a McMuffin
I'm so out of it. There's a mcdonald's nearby
Space mcdonald's
And a necklace
Yeah, just I mean, you know as much as that's fucking hilarious like
Hey ray, here's a necklace. Okay next seed. I know that necklace. Oh the bad guys find the good guys. Oh, wow
How unlucky how
Planet and the one fucking person on the whole planet who had that one device just happened to give it to the
genuinely
JJ doesn't know how to not write in a contrived way like a wonky donk
Going through the force awakens in excruciating detail. Like everything is a coincidence
Every single fucking event in the whole film is just like oh, that's just how that happened. Wow
Yeah, it's not like the story is built off of a coincidence that happens. No, no, no, no, no
It's all coincidence. I just love the idea that kyla grabs a necklace. He's like, I know this fucking necklace
I used to gut them all the time like from that planet
Well, and it makes me like so are they saying are they now saying that
During their four spawn when they're like telepathically like he can physically interact with the environments
Like is that what was established? They were yeah tlj had the rain on his hand if you remember
Oh, yeah, I guess you're right. Yeah
Are you sure that it wasn't just his incel sweat?
Because he was talking he was talking with a girl
Well, I mean, you know, there is a bit I don't know how the rules work because you remember ray shoots at him
In the first we're at the point where we can't deny that some oh no
Well, I've been I mean your thing is probably 100 true
But what i'm talking about is she shoots at him you remember and then he goes whoa
He's not actually shot and it's just like oh lucky that didn't transfer your web
Yeah, and that's what I mean
Like when so and the same thing with like luke and tlj when he is doing the force projection
He's able to interact with things like how does he have those fucking dice? I don't get that. Um
But he's able to interact with things
But he's not able to be interacted with kind of I guess with the lasers and the lightsaber through him
I just don't make any sense the rules. Yeah, the dice disappeared. I guess the dice do disappear
Which means the necklace will disappear
No, there's a different force power they're using they're using skype force
Luke was using holy moly, dude
Like this is something that they should have tapped into like we can literally transfer things across the universe in split seconds
If we harness this jedi and it's like no only snoke was powerful enough to do that
Except with snoke. Oh, yeah, that's what I mean. It's like these these the only one who could do it like he's dead
Like oh
So wait, what happened? How does snoke fit into this uh, like ultra powerful force user situation?
It's just not part of it
Wait, what? Oh, do you mean with with the he seems like he was more powerful than ray or kylo
You mean the dyad?
He was a dyad with the emperor palbertine but palbertine's not gay. So but neither of them are light
It doesn't matter. He's not gay
Oh
I don't know. I don't know if they have to be light because the emperor wants to turn ray to
Have like yeah, he said he needs to do another dark part of the dyad
Oh
Okay, fuck it knows that nobody understood guys hot take this isn't gonna be good
You don't say you just hate women oh yeah
Yeah
God all right. So the necklace is the key to the first order discovering their look
Um after the connection ends ray warns her comrades that the first order is on their way and as they must
How does that happen?
I should she rejects it or something. Oh, she revokes her
I believe she revokes her consent. Can you imagine this you're like you're like on this really awkward mission trying to get
Any kind of foothold for the fucking resistance because this first order this pesky first order just has infinite resources
And you're like your friend just entered a skype call and told the enemies where you are. You're like ray. What the
Really? It's embarrassing. He does uh, kylo recognize the necklace. He also makes it very clear to her that he does
It's like oh, I know exactly where you are now
Yeah, unless she just she knows that he will know from that necklace where they are in the universe
Specifically you know that aren't they in like the outer reaches as well as something because they're contacting somebody who knows stuff about the fucking
Out out out out land like yeah, are they in the unknown regions?
They could be like an uncontacted society and that's why they can't be aliens there, right?
I'm this is the thing, right?
We're reading this and i'm like, okay
Maybe the flesh on the script will explain this and i'm like, this is probably the fleshed up version what we're reading right now
The flesh on the script is going to make it worse
probably
Um, so race's first order is on their way
Uh, and it was hurry to find lay his contact
It is at this point that instead of finding their contact their contact by the guy that you'll sell
Well, their contact reveals himself to them after having spotted an old wookie friend of his out of the crowd
It's lando calrissian
So that that's who leo was referring to that this is I forgot he's in this too. Yeah. Oh my god
The nights of rin haven't popped up yet
Yeah, remember that's a thing
How am I going to be able to review this film in under 12 hours like
It's there's no way now, dude
Won't land out a flirt with ray so bad
No, they'll they'll fuck him up but I once fucked they'll fuck him up
He's going to be like I would hate to be inappropriate, but I believe you to be attractive
Do you do you uh, do you give me your consent to compliment you
I think it's far more likely he tries to get it on with
Well, dude you're gonna want to keep lando away from the falcon like dude, hey, whoa, okay
Look, we're on a mission. I know you want to mess around but
After okay, so they keep walking on like they keep walking in on lando with his dick in a different part of the powder
Oh, I just realized what if what if l3 comes back? No
Oh my god, and then she speaks to the p.a
Oh, it's so nice to see you again, it's like no we don't care no one cares
Stick it in me one last time. Please tell me the exhaust pipe, please
Lando tell me the robots have rights now. Do the robots have rights yet?
I would love to see one of the droids and say you look absolutely beautiful
I just start sexually harassing r2d2. He's gonna kiss your interface
Just like oh well, thank you, sir. Uh, I can see a prank on people
Uh, all right, he's heard about mother's board you got there
Uh, you don't be even better than him flirting with ray. If if he if he sees rayann's like i'm good
Well, she she's like expecting it she does reputation she's like hey and he's like, okay
All right
Watch that capacitor anytime
And I I think so I think that everyone's together right so it's po fin and ray finally all together
Uh, oh, yeah, that's a big deal because
No, it's not
It'll be interesting to see how fin deals with someone flirting with ray. I
That's still a thing. I don't know
It's kind of hard to remember the dynamics for any of these characters because there's only there's only room for one black man in this relationship
It's kind of crazy
The if you if if anything significant happens between ray and fin in this which seems from the trailer to be a possibility as in like
They're hanging out. They may have a moment. Whatever. It's just like, oh, yeah
We had that whole film where they just skipped all this time that they could have made their relationship meaningful. Huh? How about that?
Yeah, yeah well
greetings greetings and introductions are exchanged and lando tells them of
A dagger that may help them find what you're fucking kidding me
a dagger another macguffin
You mean like like a like a sharp pointed medley short bit it's gonna be a special dagger that has coordinates in it, right?
Oh, so it's like the the data knives from titanfall, okay
And then when they get the dagger like this dagger will lead you to the obelisk and you'll be like, oh, okay
One of this one of the top comments on the post is that there are what there are like five fetch quests in the first act
Um
And see false awakens was just one big fetch quest that both sides were interested in now we've got
How we've both had three we've had the kylo one, uh after
No, no, we have four. We literally have four
Kyla for the wayfinder then kyla for palpatine and then we've had uh
The resistance for lando then the then the resistance for the dagger. That's four. We need one more and it's five
Oh
Just given each character a fetch quest and done them all at the same time
Well, that wouldn't be better
Well carry on I guess
Many years prior lando and luke went in search of this dagger that was owned by a syph loyalist named ochi
Spelling not confirmed
They tracked ochi to passana when the trail went cold
And evidently landos of sauna. I tried evidently he's still fucking there years later
Uh, we met with the question of why oh, here we go why he never left the planet after the search like ochi
That's just like ochi
Classic ochi am I right guys ochi's fucking dead rags pay attention. They're talking about fucking lando staying there god, who cares about ochi?
Classic lando stay appreciate there. You need to pay some respect to ochi. Fuck ochi. I hate him
I'm taking a I kind of like ochi. I think he's on the right side in this thing
We established what gender or race or pronouns ochi uses ochi?
I'm, sorry the more we say ochi the more of a fucking goofy name it becomes like good old ochi
Ochi's the secret skywalker ochi the dagger maker
Ochi sent me high
Oh
nice combo meme
Fucking ochi ochi has the mcmuffins. That's probably that's the relevance to the plot here
So so yeah, how many so we've got three mcmuffins now we've got
We've got a tracker a dagger and a necklace
Dude check out this law like read on what is this law?
I know so
Uh the search for or when met with the question why he never left the planet after search for ochi and his dagger ended
Lando tells the team that he had a young child at the time of his and luke's quest and everyone glances at fin
No, no, he's adding that but that's what we're all thinking it's like is it fit
Please don't be fin
When they were out searching for the dagger the first order stole his child after oh that makes sense
Abner failed to protect his child from the first order
Lando and luke parted ways and he stayed on passana ever since
All right, it's been here for this conversation
The story strikes a chord with fin
Having been stolen from his own family at an incredible young age as well
Lando points them in the direction of the last known coordinates of ochi's ship where the trail went cold all those years ago
Wishes them luck and succeeding where he failed all those years ago
But decides to sit this one out
Why?
So he stayed on the planet because his kid was stolen
Yes
That doesn't make sense lando
It also doesn't make any sense if he tells them hey, this is where the trail ran cold
But I wasn't able to find him after the trail ran cold. So i'm gonna stay here
You know, okay. Yeah. Well, yeah, but like you're on you're on a planet you have a kid you're searching for a dagger
You couldn't quite find the dagger. You've got you've got a lead, but it went cold and your kid is stolen
What do you do stay on the planet?
Fuck it. I didn't like him anyway though
I like his fucking face reminded me of his mom
Also going to reveal that lando was mace windu's son
Can you imagine can you imagine if fucking mace windu ain't alive after getting
Dude I take it at this point just have samuel jackson reacting to all this stupid shit motherfucker
Black people are related. He's like, oh, yeah, he sees palpatine
Fucking walks into the room pal. He's like motherfucker. You still alive. What the fuck?
I do you have a fucking building. You chopped your arm off and he's like don't you give that shit to us?
I watched the damn movie motherfucker vibe
People are actually going to argue that this ruins tlj because you've got like low
Yeah, you've given important lineages now. That's gotta be so much fun to watch. Oh, yeah
Yeah, it was the tlj fans tear themselves and ironically episode nine looks like it's gonna power efap until well past me and rags are dead so
Dead from veiled aids god, uh, our heroes when we are dyad
Our heroes follow the trail that land of uh fin po re chubaka bba
I assume right. Yeah, our heroes. I forget he it should be quoted our heroes
Follow the trail that lando pointed out to them and eventually they happen to ochi's ship
Uh, I guess oh
Wait, what hang on it's ray sees the ship and it triggers memories. Okay
Okay that woman
yay
But like it's gonna have nothing to do with her, but she loves jedi memories and it'll lead them to the next clue
I hate you. JJ can't make a story to save your life
But well, that's the next part
You got to realize what he's working with. Yeah next part
Okay, there's like if if I hand you a bunch of like rubble and i'm like make a house, you don't have piss all over it
So here's the thing it's the same ship that we see leaving jack
Oh my god, i'm dying
So ray and fin's parents just happen to be in the same place. Hey, man
It could be anyone's sister one of their brother and sister
We have not got confirmation. Okay, it's who knows who fins. I don't want to do it. I don't want to do this anymore
I want to listen where you decide to steal them the film
We just listened to jake paulin instead of reading the rest of this, uh every day bro or something
That would be better at this point like this is how bad this is. This is so bad
What a twist
Well before the implications of this can sink in the ground beneath them gives out and the crew gets sucked below the surface
Okay
Of course that happens
below my surface
Uh, they find themselves in a series of underground tunnels where they discover the remains of ochi
And the dagger and the dagger that lando luke saw it
So literally all that happened is they've walked to the point where lando pointed and they find the fucking dagger god. That's so shit
That is so shit also I love the idea that one of the characters is like heavily invested in ochi
Like they see this skeleton. They're like
Oh
They just walked to a random place the ground came like oh, hey that's the thing we're looking
Thanks planet god fucking damn it dude, she didn't deserve this
Ochi did not deserve this
Ochi was my favorite. I like
Uh, again, jesus ray feels a very strong connection to this weapon
You feel pretty bad about that disrespect towards ochi now don't I do ochi does it better
Ochi was the most interesting part of the week. And now here we are
Turns out ochi is just like a codename in the script for jaja
Chat hey f's in the chat for ochi guys
Oh
G was the og
Oh, man will be missed sad will be missed pretty sad
Let's see so uh again a strong connection to can articulate it jesus. It's almost like we had that in the force of awakens
Um, the dagger has writing on it in a language that nobody can identify
It's then handed over to c3pl. Thank god. He came
Uh who identifies the writing as a syph language?
But reveals he's unable to translate the writing due to restrictions in his programming. What?
Okay, well i'm not allowed to tell you what this says
Then just give us I can't say the
I
Must be given the inward pass by my creator
Creator again. Oh, yeah, remember fucking darth vader built you don't forget everyone ever
Let's not forget darth fucking vader built c3po and he's just here. Everything's connected
The force
I need to give a shout out to the efap for a making a more interesting character in 10 minutes with ochi than disney's
in this entire trilogy
Oh, she was a fucking legend. Let's be honest. Yeah. Yeah
Wait till you guys find out that the mandalorian leaks that ochi is the mandalorian. Uh, oh
i'm on board with this
Um
God i'm honestly surprised ray wasn't just immediately with the knowledge to just read that shit. So
What a twist
Yeah, she's like, oh I met someone who knew that language. I downloaded
Downloaded it from skype someone else learned that like someone else learned the opposite language
So my language knowledge rose to meet their opposite language knowledge
That's how the force works now
Look at this though at this time a plan is made to hack
C3po's programming to bypass the restrictions. Like wouldn't you just do this anyway? Wouldn't this have been a thing to do?
Why not why put right the restriction in there if you're going to immediately remove it
Yeah, what the restriction is he can confirm that he can read syph, but he cannot
One last look scene, right? It's read only rags. He can't he can't speak it. Yes
I'm fluent in over six more million forms of communication
Uh, but I can't talk about this one
Well wait at that point, you know, maybe i've misunderstood this but could you just trick it and be like, okay
C3po don't think about it. Just describe to us in english a different completely unrelated thing
But also describe the thing just just do it just to say random english words
You know, I mean like like a weird way of bypassing it like I don't know if you heard about this but
Um, there was a conversation was leaked between two people where it was illegally quote unquote recorded
but what the guy did
Was transcript all of it from his recording and then delete and deny the recording ever took place and just say it a really
Good memory and he wrote it down, which is not illegal
Oh, yeah, you can get like what i'm trying to say is if c3po's are they he could confirm to them that he can read it
but he cannot
Translate it. I just be like, okay
Don't just do a completely random different thing that also happens to be the same as this one. Can you programming allow that? I don't know
Yeah, I can see c3po being a fussy little bitch about it though. Uh, and not doing it
Find a workaround because then it shares a fucking good thing that c3po was randomly told to go with them
Yeah, it must well lay ahead intuition through the
That's what happened. I fucking guess I guess she just knew the whole time
From the trailer. It looked like he's gonna have to die to do whatever they're doing
All right. He has to die to say the n-word. I just well, yeah
Like he's like taking one last look about he's like shut the fuck up c3po you're actually getting killed for this
Like why would that kill you? I don't know. I'm asking too many things without knowing enough yet. So
He's just gonna go blind. He's gonna go blind. That's what's gonna happen. He's gonna turn into ray charles. So what he's talking about
So luckily so they need to make this plan to hack into
Luckily poe mentions that he has an old contact that might be able to help them out. Of course he does
Chewbacca randomly takes possession of the dagger and the group's attention shifts randomly
Okay. Yeah, okay. Give it to chewbacca did something
Yeah, you can't make him useful
Yeah, um and the group's attention shifts to finding a way out of the caves what is also what is with this I have an old contact
Oh, okay. It's just land giving the n-word pass. I have an old contact too
All right finding a way out of the caves and didn't they get in there because the ground caved in can't they just like climb
Back out. No, there's gonna be a way out. That's normal
I can't believe this has happened like what the fuck just saying
There's a group
Randomly throughout this how did we get here? Yeah
During during their escape attempt. Oh the team runs into a giant very aggressive sandworm who presumably
who presumably created the tunnels
Wait, hang on. So why was the skeleman down there then?
It was from the last time it came down
Okay
A battle with the sandworm ensues and our heroes end up backed into a
Preparing to meet their fate when ray notices a detail
The worm is injured in a display of previously unknown power. I'm gonna stop you there. Oh
In a display of previously unknown power, okay
What is she doing is just deleting it like I don't even
Well, she's able to heal it satiating the wind and providing the heroes a chance
So the worm is happy to be healed and they can escape
Because that's how animals work. Dude, dude, dude ray has false healing now
No, no take take your animal to the vet and see how much it likes you
I would be died for nothing at this point. So she's doing the
Born in the lion's paw story in this shit. Yeah, it looks like and I mean that hasn't been done before so that's totally cool in you
Ray wanks off the worm and it's like
Idea how much I needed that I don't have arms
Thank you for tugging on my sandworm
I can't believe the idea that she's unlocked a previously unknown powerful ability. I'm like ray. Stop it. Stop it
They're trying to make it canon now that she is like just a magic like prophecy force user like hanakin was
And that that's why she has all these new abilities. So they have to keep giving her random
You say you say like consistent you say like ada kid was ada kid was very fucking limited when he was
I mean, it's interesting. He was a magic child with magic ability. Like, you know, he was
Prophesized to be very powerful not quite like on steroids with ray
Yeah, I was gonna say he wasn't a dyad though when you're a dyad, that's what you you know
How is it that she defeats kylo?
How does she defeat kylo so easily several times if he's a part of the dyad as well?
Because he's just a bit of a wank. Okay
He called him a boy he called him a boy
Fucking legendary debate
Debates again. Yes, so so is twitter debates and twitter a gay
Uh, I think that this is just
I was gonna say do you want should we trade it over who wants to take up next rags jeremy or jay?
Who wants to go next?
Well, let me use the loo while I fucking
Speaking of leaks
Nice
Um, I got it once the crew exits the cave system they see a first order star destroyer in the sky
They arrive quickly, I guess yeah
Good stuff. All right
And know that kylo ren has found them once they realize
This they correctly reason that the first order would have already found the falcon
Making that plan
of escape impossible
The falcon is boarded and subsequently taken over or taken by the star destroyer in an act of desperation the crew boards
ochis should
Returning to lore as only ochi can sorry
But so when they knew that the first order was coming from they didn't have somebody go and get the ship
Like stay with the ship do something with the ship. They're just like oh fuck it
But they probably
Correctly reasoned that it takes literally days to travel in hyperspace to different planets
So maybe they didn't think they'd be that close
Yeah, i'm interested to see how far away the first order were when they found this information out
But I don't know that they're going to provide us that kind of information
Are they going to keep it consistent that kylo hates the falcon like blow that piece of junk out of the sky?
Oh, right. Yeah, he hates the falcon. He's kind of rationally angry when he sees it
Oh, they hate that ship
What
But he's got a few times you get a feeling about something
Sometimes you get a feeling about something and I knew ochi or ochi
I was gonna say ochi
Ochi
Ochi got out the uche one airy by the way
The ochi and scratchy show
Oh man, oh that's good. All right, uh, the crew boards a uchi's ship
And attempt to get it working. It's on the ship that the crew discovers the new droid dio
Oh the hair dryer this is the hair dryer one. Okay. Have you got seen this one? Yeah. Yes. Yeah
What hair droid?
Hair dryer droid we have those they're hair dryers. It's in the no
It's in the trailer. It's the little green thing
Listen the last fucking thing that I need is to have my hair dryer giving me lip at the beginning of my days. All right
Uh, and you commentary from my appliances all day
It's returned right rags. Uh, so, uh ochi has uh returned so oh, right
Yeah rags get you caught up, right?
All you missed was they got they got away from the creepy whim obviously
And then the first order arrived on the planet and they correctly assumed that it's too late to go back to their ship
Because that'll be captured and it is and so they decide to go on to uchi's ship
Oh ochi fucking I don't even care anymore and they decide to get that working and that's that's where we're at
Okay, I'm having trouble
Uchi's name now because I've never been reminded of uchi
Say it now
Ray says that kylo is coming for her so she takes oh no
Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, no, no skype
To confront him and buy her friends some time
This is where the thai interceptor flips sequence from the first teaser takes place. Okay
While kylo and ray are engaged
Ooh, ray like I do
Raylo confirmed right he's he's coming for her and then they get engaged
Start beating off out there on twitter, um, while kylo and ray are engaged the knights of rinn there they are
There they are there they are the knights of ram head for ochi ship
They're just here now, okay
Yeah, we finally have the knights of rinn who were announced before the fucking force awakens
We finally have the knights of rinn now in the fucking sequel trilogy the knights you didn't read the thai in comic book
Jeremy thai in comic book
Oh
Damn, we should read the book
While kylo and ray are engaged the knights of rinn in the first order head to uchi's ship
And our other hero ochi ochi ochi ochi. It's ochi. Yeah, ochi
McMuffin guys
First order head to mcmuffin guy's ship and our other heroes jubaka splits off from the group
And the knights of rinn in the first order head to mcmuffin guy's ship. Oh, I read I read the same fucking line
But it captured the dagger is taken from him and he boards a first order prisoner transport
Ray and kylo
Someone just sent me this on discord
Oh my goodness
Are
He's begrudgingly giving him the pass okay
Left arm
I'm I'm I'm opening up to save I open it up to save it to my computer and it just says n word pass
Listen all black people have two left arms
It's either so good a basketball I guess
That's the secret is to have two left
Oh
Oh, this is the thing
Memes are just oh my goodness saved. Oh my goodness. Yeah, that needs to be saved
Oh
Oh my god, my face hurts
It was good that was good. Oh my goodness, man the joy of this fucking image
Is the plot of this
If you guys are not aware this is one third that we've nearly finished a third where's the rest
Yeah, i've got i've got the links to the two
Just to be about wrapping up fucking hell
Well, like this is the thing
I said that we'd be covering what happened on twitter and then the star wars leaks and to jeremy and he's like
Oh, yeah a couple of hours like probably like 10
It just kind of seems like with the way things are going it looks like everything's being hastily wrapped up
Which is why I thought this was no we got two more acts to go through
Oh, wow, it's not all about oh gee
God damn it
Thank you, it is about ochi, okay
not
Not disrespect the great ochi all the sacrifice mcmuffins and uh
jokes
All right
Ray and kylo both notice chubaka being taken captive and being brought into the transport ship during their competition
Chubaka get caught
Well, it says chubaka splits he split off from the crew
All right, he split off from the crew and convenient randomly. He was the one who got the dagger
How is it the chubaka will be able to delay the knights?
He's just gonna get killed how is it that he doesn't get killed also, why the fuck yeah
If his whole thing was delaying the knives, why would he take the dagger with him?
No, even in the script even in the leaks is like they randomly give it to chubaka is like yeah something's gonna fucking happen
Yeah, yeah
Wouldn't they wouldn't chubaka been like i'm gonna go delay the knights guys take the knife, you know
Wouldn't it would be like no, no, no, let's all stick together as a party also that
God damn ship takes off ray shifts her attention from kylo to her captured friend and begins to use the force to stop
The transport and pull it back to the ground. What wait i'm sorry. What is this?
Oh, no
Isn't kylo right next to her isn't he just gonna fuck her up?
Remember when yo that he gets one of the guys guys kylo attempts to counteract it by pushing the ship away
It's just gonna break the shit. Why wouldn't he just attack ray?
Because he's dumb
Okay
Because he's struggling with the dark side the light side is a wood killer
It does say they're engaged. So they're clearly like that means to me that they're in light
Yeah, they're right. They're right next to each other
Yeah
and I and I it's
Remember in episode two attack of the clones
Right the movie star wars movie
When at the end there's the dukie fight and yoda he stops
He stops the rocks from falling and he's and it's like a big fucking deal that he stops like a rock from falling on
Obi-wan Kenobi
Right. That was like a huge deal like while he was straining to do it
It's really tough because rocks are heavy as shit because they're mad at rock
So and so it was like a big deal and now ray's like nah, just this whole fucking spaceship
Nah, you're not you can't leave. I am more powerful than your hyperdrive mega engines
I think it is time we addressed what comes next
What happens next go ahead
Control or let's see. So kylo attempts to counteract this by pushing the ship away
Control over the ship becomes a battle between kylo and ray much like their battle for anakin's lightsaber. Oh
Well, we know who wins this explode and they die
Keep going
Kylo begins to gain the upper hand which angers ray in her frustration lightning shoots what?
What I don't want to talk I don't want to repeat this
I don't want to do it
Do it you have to don't give in
Do it so
Please delay it rags talk. I don't want to I don't want to do it
So just to confirm you said that lightning comes out of her
Yes
One of the most renowned and difficult to master sith powers
Force lightning and she fucking does it by accident. She's just she was frustrated
I don't know how she loses anything to kylo
Oh, I know she doesn't she's she's worried about losing i'm sorry
I spoke too soon. She's concerned that potentially
I guess she's concerned that potentially the plot sort of forgot for a moment that dude
She fucking is and so she accidentally forced lightnings. Did she kill chewbacca?
Yeah, yeah, so we didn't even get to the the real part
So lightning shoots from her hands destroying the transport ship and killing all its passengers. What what kill chewbacca?
What
That is what you well
That's what you're intended to think on screen. Yeah. Oh is it that he's not actually dead because yes
Oh is that was?
That's what'll happen later and no one's ever really gone
Holy fuck dude
like I came
Devastated by what she did ray collapses while all this is transpiring po fin 3po and bb8 get
OJ OJ is a ship in the air just in time to fly motherfucker a distraught ray
Wait, wait, wait, where's kylo?
I know where the fuck is kylo
I guess he's like laughing. He's like, oh he's fucking dumb bitch or or is he just he's like devastated
You killed chewbacca
I specifically told my knights of red not to hurt
He could be attached to chewbacca for all we that's what I mean. I'm like it is he's really sad about it
You guys seen that comic that robot had tweeted of like chewbacca and kylo. Yeah, i've seen that
That's so cute
At the end where he like hans he just kills han and he like is aiming at his head and then lowers it to his stomach
Yeah, that's the one yeah, I like that it's a really awesome little comic and it's trying to explain some a dub
He didn't kill kylo
Has more character to like the sequel all of the sequels
It's six panels. I'm curious
This is like people who remix the batwoman soundtrack like they have for some fucked up reason they've got more passion and care
Than those the people who actually have control of the franchise
I'm being told there are updated leaks for all of this as well in relation to the reshoots
um
Fucking hell i've been delivered a manifesto of leaps. I don't want them to change this. Okay. Yeah, look wait
So it's perfect. What we're gonna do is read these out
As if as if taking seriously and then we'll deal with whatever they actually release
So this is yeah, so f uh, well psa
Everyone who's listening this is not actually 100 nor did we expect it to be this is just a
Let's call it a skeleton that may change
Um, oh, she's skeleton
And there'll probably be a little more context to make sense of some of the more retarded stuff we hope we'll see no that won't
Um, all right. Well, yeah, so yeah, uh, no lando no foul no lando
It's not like they can't go and get him, right? He's just
Eating chicken playing basketball not worrying about his kid. So all right. Oh, no, you're right with his no
Oh, no
I would say that I would say that there I would say he's actually is worried about his kid because that's why he like
Stayed behind me. He's worried about his kid. I'm fucking do anything about it
That's how they play off. It's like oh, yeah
I I stayed here because I was so concerned that I didn't do anything
It's like I totally haven't been avoiding child support payments
No, I don't know if I'm gonna do chubaka our heroes limp away from the desert planet
So that's it for act one apparently
And this is the thing, right?
Like this may be very different when we get to the final version of this film
But this is still incredibly amusing that someone thought that any of this was a good idea
Oh, so this is act two
At least it might have more than one draft so oh, yeah, yeah, there you go
Oh, yeah, um, that's true. I guess ragzell jade you want to take this one or
Uh, i'm good. I'm not the best reader out louder. Oh, right
Because i've been listening haven't been i've been looking at it. I've just been listening a lot
Uh, because I I don't want to read ahead. I don't want spoilers even though this is one big fucking spoiler again
All right, let me roll here. So
This is where it ends
Oh, yeah, so go from act two
Uh kajimi, I guess
To is that another thingy? Yeah. Yeah another link. Yeah
Or the side of the reddit page
Is in the discord code and expanded act two
All right. Here we go boys and girls
Okey dokey, I guess I gotta click
Okay
Due to the fact that ryze the skywalker is currently going through a round of additional photography in the base
Stop from act two kajima
If you do not want to know what happens in episode nine read no farther
There anyone who missed it. Here's act one act two kajimi
We're at kajimi's house. Okay. Oh cheese wife kajimi
All right at kajimi the heroes of the resistance
Make their way to the snow dusted planet of kajimi
To execute their plan to discover what secrets the dagger held
Despite not being in possession of that dagger anymore
3po
Tells the crew that he has the message committed to memory
So all hope is not lost
Poe tracks down an old contact of his zori bliss
Oh another old contact
Yeah, another old contact. Oh, I guess that is the old contact he was talking about. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Yeah, it brings them to it. Well, no lando was a contact as well. Well, that was leah's old contact
And then there was the old con. Yeah now then there was oh ochi who is different
Oh
Lando was leah's contact zuri is
Uh pose contact
Oh and the sith are 3po's contact
Okay, uh zuri bliss who brings them to a small creature named babu frick
Babu frick
Babu fricks can never be quenched
Oh my god, what a embarrassing game
Jory brings him to a small creature named babu frick
To hack 3po's programming to read the sith language on the dagger
All right frick frick
Frick tells everyone
That he can unlock the message to be read but in doing so
C 3po's memory will be white why?
Why
Why don't they just make a copy of his memories on the usb?
And then put them in after they're done
This is dumb
Why doesn't doesn't make a babu of freaking sense
Why
This is such a forced drama to kill c3p
Dude, if if like so if they did folk kills chubaka in that scene and he's gonna come back leah
Imagine being a fabian like so chewy's dead c3p is about to be killed hod's dead
Luke is dead leah's dead irl. He doesn't even remember the old characters
He doesn't remember these people either
wiped from memory
Oh my god, doesn't remember leah doesn't remember han doesn't remember luke doesn't remember r2 d2
Well, he's I mean he's getting wiped c3po no longer exists once this is done
Yeah, c3po is dead. If you lose all your memories, you're essentially a new person
They run out of characters to ruin. Well, so like this is
This isn't like this is this isn't necessarily rude. This is just a straight-up assassinated like kill. This is like we want to move
Yeah
C3po's memories are just wiped. He's no longer c3po. He's some other robot now c4po
Well, he's gonna be the fucking psychopathic murderer c3po, isn't he?
Oh my god, please I want to see that it's gonna turn into hk47
Okay, well
Frick tells everyone that he can unlock the message to be read but in doing so c3po's memory will be wiped
Still reeling from the loss of chewbacca
The heroes argue about finding another way to get the job done
But in an act of self-sacrifice c3po voluntarily consent to the modifications. I mean that's
redundant voluntary
Knowing that for all intents and purposes the droid we've all known for years will essentially die
Okay
According to my sources this scene is reportedly one of the most emotional in the film followed by the word frick
Frick completes the hack and 3po is now able to read the message inscribed on the dagger
What if it was like a troll message from the sif like lul you thought it was like important
getting wrecked
This action creates the red-eye c3po scene in the footage
Uh, so the translated text points them to the location of the emperor's own wayfinder
Wait, so not to the emperor to the wayfinder of the emperor
the translated text
It points them to the location of the emperor's own way find wayfinder
So it points them to the location of the thing that will point them to the location of the emperor
yes, yes, um, what the fuck having served his
is having served his purpose, 3PO's memory wipe begins.
Oh, but why?
Oh, then it happens.
Okay, interesting.
So having served his purpose,
3PO's memory wipe begins and he shuts down.
Once the memory wipe is complete,
3PO reboots with a completely empty memory.
Damn.
Star Wars.
Fuck all you love.
Fuck the things that you care about.
Fuck your old characters.
Your old characters don't even remember.
Sorry, they want to kill him off,
but they also want to be able to parade around his corpse.
Yeah.
We haven't seen that before.
And you know, one of the big criticisms, right?
When this all broke and you had that scene,
I'm just taking one look at my friend.
You barely fucking know these people.
Yeah.
But they, yeah.
I would love to.
But they point to the fact that there's a scene of,
sorry, there's a scene of Chewbacca in there,
being like, oh, he was clearly talking to Chewbacca.
Well, that is not from this scene.
As you can clearly tell,
Chewbacca's fucking, they think he's dead right now.
He's not there.
So that's bullshit.
He is talking about these new characters
as his friends that he's so worried about losing.
I just love the idea that you're in the room
and he says like, oh, my friends.
And you go, 3PO?
And he's like, yeah, anyway.
What's her name pointing to red?
And 3PO's like, that's, that's oochie.
Someone sent me this, this little meme.
Someone sent me that little meme.
All right.
That's great.
Someone has also, someone's also sent me this.
Oh, God.
Oh, it's the McMuffin.
It's the McMuffin.
Yeah, it is the McMuffin.
Very good, Jay.
Good, Jay.
That's part of that meme is the handwritten yum.
That's yum.
That really sells it.
That really sells it.
I was gonna say, I've been-
He wrote that while drunk.
I've actually been collecting a lot of neat memes.
We'll have a section for that
as soon as we get through all this for sure.
Oh, my.
But yeah, there's been some good shit.
I'm not gonna lie.
Anyway, where are we?
Wile on Kijimi.
Kyle, Kylo, sorry.
There you go again, Kyle Ben.
Sorry, sorry.
Sorry, I didn't mean to do that.
I apologize.
Wile on Kijimi.
Kylo initiates another mind bond with Rey
to try and divine her location a second time.
Kylo spends much of this magic necklace.
Yeah.
He's just hoping for another magic necklace.
You know how I have those fucking hip-hop necklaces
with the time on them?
She's wearing one.
She's wearing one that has her location just at all times.
Yeah.
I just like the idea that he pops it
and she looks normal and he's like,
so did you pick up anything around you?
Do it a day you won't.
Wait a second.
You're at Kijimi.
These snowflakes, I remember these snowflakes from my child.
They're the exact same snow
that fell when fucking something water cycle.
Just keep reading, there's some lore coming up, I think.
I think so.
I think we're gonna have some cool lore.
All right.
Wile on Kijimi.
Kylo initiates another mind bond with Rey
to try and divine her location a second time.
Why he isn't abusing the fuck out of this, I don't know.
Kylo spends much of this time antagonizing Rey.
Some of this conversation revolves around her parents
and the truth behind the dagger.
It was once used to murder her parents.
Okay.
Rey.
Cool.
It was once used to murder her parents.
Many years ago, Ochi was sent to murder Rey's parents
who were trying to hide Rey from the galaxy.
From the galaxy?
What?
Ochi succeeded, leaving her parents
as nobodies to be forgotten by that galaxy.
Where Ochi failed was with Rey.
He could not find her.
So he left her behind on Jakku.
Wait, so he knew she was on Jakku,
but he couldn't find her on this, so he just gave up.
I guess.
I think that's probably just bad writing
by whoever, like, wrote the leaks.
Okay.
He couldn't find her, so she just ended up-
This might be bad writing.
Hope so.
Yeah.
This is what Rey remembers.
The ship leaving in the wake of her parents' murder,
not her parents abandoning her.
Rey lashes out at Kylo during this bond
and their lightsabers clash.
Okay.
So we're doing the Captain Marvel simulation thing now, huh?
They don't even have to be-
Wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
He finds out the location from that?
It says having gotten everything he needed
from Rey doing that session, he cuts off the bond.
What did you find out?
Where she was.
How?
He saw the guns.
He's like, I know that mountain.
But doesn't it want-
It's Kajimi.
Okay, okay, hang on.
Okay, so Kylo taunts Rey by telling her
that parents weren't actually like,
didn't actually just sell her for drinking money.
And actually they were like trying to hide her
because she's really important
and they were murdered in the process.
Wouldn't she like hearing that?
That her parents are dead?
Well, they were dead anyway.
He told her that they died or whatever.
They did just for drinking money and-
She knew they weren't around.
Surely the best reason for that is like,
not that they abandoned her, but they died.
Like, that's gotta be something at least.
I guess she's angry at him because he lied.
Is that, is that-
Well, why would you even believe him?
I was about to say,
why would you even believe him this time though?
Maybe she has confirmation
because the fucking dagger gave him memories.
Maybe she's mad that he keeps sneaking peeks
while she's on the shitter.
I would imagine that might,
maybe that's why she's so upset.
He just likes to watch girls shit.
Just to be clear,
he doesn't like to actually watch the shitting.
Just watch her as she shit.
Like the, it's implied.
And like, he tells Palpatine this.
He wants a solution to him.
Palpatine's like, I'm not prepared to deal with this.
Oh my god, don't.
I start to feel as if you're not using this ability
to this fullest potential.
We're ready to see him as well.
So she's just like, whatever, she's taking a shit.
She sometimes just looks up and sees Kylo
just like sitting there.
But she's gonna hope he's just sitting there.
Yeah.
But, but Kylo like pretends to look away.
He was like, as he starts whistling,
doing something else.
Well, we'll just like silence for a few minutes
that he just goes like, does it hurt?
Oh, he was forced pulling.
Rise of Skywalker reminiscent of that screen scene
in The Force Awakens
where they're doing the force battle
in the beginning of The Force Awakens
where he's trying to get in her mind
and they're both pooping, but they're both straining.
This is exactly the same way.
They're like, we're gonna close ups,
close ups it on their faces.
They do the, they do the force battle
they did for the lightsaber, but for Kylo's dick.
Oh my god.
They're both, he's like, he's faster than she is.
Pulling on his cock.
She's pushing on his cock.
He's trying to get it away.
He's trying to get it out.
She's trying to put it away.
So someone in Chad said, he would say like,
wait, don't flush it yet.
That fucking voice man.
This turd is one of the most massive
I've ever seen in the galaxy.
We need the turd for the dyad.
Oh my goodness.
What is, what has become of us?
What turd has become of us?
That's why he puts the mask back on the phone.
We are the Phantom Men.
This is what happens when you have
an alt right leftist stream.
That's what this is.
Yup.
Alt right, like alt W-R-I-T-E.
Alt left.
No, alt leftist, right.
Am I right?
Right, right, alt leftist, right.
Yeah, it's all pretty, it's all pretty gay.
Right, alt left.
It says though, it says the star destroyers arrive.
Are they the super duper planet destroying ones?
The super super star destroyers?
Super duper.
So from what I understand, they need children to crew those.
So it's probably just the first one.
All right, Timmy, now ease it right into position.
Yeah, now press the red button and let it go away.
Wouldn't that be the best thing?
You see these things finally take off.
Children fucking ran into each other and stuff.
They're all crewed by small children.
You can pick, that would easily be a parody movie.
For their heads.
Oh my God.
We had to.
All of this would easily be at a parody movie.
It'd be great as well.
I would laugh my fucking ass off.
It'd be so good.
Like Ray tries to help Chewbacca
and she obliterates them with the force.
Oh my God.
I'm like so fucking sorry, man.
I just don't know my own strength, sorry.
They're looking for something
and they just, the ground caves are way below them.
They're like, oh, there it is.
Oh.
Yeah, at the very end.
Cuts a black next scene.
Oh, I can only read this if you kill me.
Oh.
I really hope we keep this in
because I want to talk about that for a while.
The idea that the only way he can read it
is if he also disappears, like he's deleted.
You're like, that doesn't translate at all.
The fact that they're like, he has read it.
Now he shall be deleted.
You're like, no, stop, don't do that bit.
Like, no, no, just stop here.
I'm just doing it.
Yeah.
They're like, okay, let's program
a post-culture as a translate language is right.
Okay.
You should have the ability to translate this language,
but he shouldn't be allowed to do that.
No, it's sick.
We're gonna code it in so he can do it,
but he can't actually say it.
Let's make the pro, let's code in the ability
and then forbid him from doing it.
Yeah, he can, like, he can understand the N-word.
He can read it.
He just can't say it aloud.
And his penance for saying the N-word aloud
is that to have his memory wiped.
Or George would just ask him what they should do on,
like, don't get into translators.
Just be like, okay, so what should we do
sit with the information?
Like, what should our next course of action be?
I'm lost.
Why did they even need the dagger?
What were they hoping to achieve with it?
Lando said the dagger does, no.
He said to go find Uchi, right?
Ouchy.
No, no, they were looking for the dagger, I thought.
Were they looking for the dagger, I think.
Yeah, they were looking for the dagger before they found it.
True. Okay.
Because it leads to the wayfinder.
That's generally the order of it, yeah.
If C-3PO can't translate it,
okay, just take us to where it tells us to go.
Have they found that out without translating it?
He's saying just tell C-3PO.
No, but he knows what it says.
He just can't tell them.
Can he write it down?
Yeah, why don't, yeah, that's a good point.
Why don't they just go, okay, don't tell us what it says.
Just, just go, just go there.
Just point on a map, point on a map where the thing is.
Just, you can do it.
That's so stupid.
I can read it, but I can't tell you what it says.
It's so JJ, though.
If motherfucker could play these games with us.
It's so JJ, and if you said to JJ, any of this stuff,
and you would just be smiling the whole time,
you'd be like, can't do that.
No, it doesn't work that way.
It doesn't work that way because-
You have to try to figure out how any of this makes sense.
And he's like, well, if you do it that way,
then you won't have the emotional moment
when C-3PO dies.
And you're like, oh, okay.
JJ Abrams has your last week of talent.
JJ, talent is brilliant.
He's a talent black hole.
Like he has like, what is the opposite of talent?
Like, not just like an absence of talent.
He has anti-talent.
Anti-talent.
Everything around him just becomes incompetent.
What is antonym of talent?
Ryan was a great director before he met JJ.
According to Google, the two words that are opposite
to talent are inability and clumsiness.
That about sums up JJ.
He's JJ.
He has the inability.
That's his skill.
It needs to be exiled for his clumsiness.
It's coming full circle.
All right.
Where were we?
All right.
Here we go.
Bop, bop, bop.
Oh yeah.
The star destroyers arrive on Kojimi.
Yeah, after having followed our heroes there.
As Kylo makes his-
Wait, sorry.
We skipped some parts, right?
No, no, no.
It's just that I thought he got the location
from his Skype call, not that it just said
they followed the heroes there.
Well, that's sort of following.
Well, I thought that it was implying
that the first order followed their group
as they escaped or something.
I don't know.
Which by the way, why can't they do that
with the Hyperspace Dragon?
Yeah.
God, that's gonna present an issue
in every single Star Wars story set after The Last Jedi.
Stop thinking about it.
No, you.
Your thoughts are causing problems.
My thoughts.
My things.
Army of thoughts?
How could-
Your thought army.
That's what multiple thinkings is.
It's a thought army.
So anyway, yeah, it's okay if I kick a god.
Oh yeah.
So the star destroyers arrive on Kojimi
after having followed our heroes.
I guess they just waited for him.
I don't know.
As Kylo makes his way down to the planet,
Zori helps the resistance escape
by employing the use of something.
There's gonna be another McGuffin.
I'll bet.
By employing the use of something described to me
as a first order passage device.
Something that transmits a signal recognized
as friendly to the first order,
allowing the ship to-
Oh shit.
Okay.
Oh shit.
Just fine, sure.
Sure.
It makes no sense.
Hey, how come there's one ship coming away
from the planet towards us?
Well, it says it's friendly,
so I guess we're just gonna fucking let it do that.
Whatever.
But sir, it's clearly not our ship.
We have windows.
We can look out and see it.
No, it doesn't count.
That's not it.
We'll have to see the context for this,
but I'm calling.
Well, what's the point in calling bullshit?
The whole thing is, you know.
So as our heroes make their escape,
we sat as in as happens a lot.
As our heroes make their escape,
we see that Palpatine's orders to Hux and Pride
are being carried out as children are being rounded up
by soldiers of the first order.
Oh no, the children think.
Wow.
Oh no, no.
Someone think about the children.
I'm just glad that these children finally fucking
have a chance at a future.
Jesus.
All right.
And also, at this point,
do you not have like planets under your control
that you can just like enlist people from?
Like, don't fucking tell me.
Or remember, the supremacy has millions of people on it.
Are those all kidnapped children?
It's literally an army of kidnapped children.
The first order reigns supreme.
I don't.
Guess.
I think it's maybe because Palpatine's fleet
is so fucking big.
I don't know why they're taking kids.
That doesn't make sense.
I guess you can control them.
I just don't understand.
Like, the Empire had an army.
They enlisted people.
Like, from planets and stuff.
Yeah, be part of the Empire.
You get like money and you can go up in the ranks
and you could have a future for yourself.
And, you know, all that army stuff
that people get from being in the army, you know?
Like, there was a reason.
Clones have got to be better than kids.
You can accelerate their growth.
You can program them to obey your orders.
Yeah, you can do that with kids, too.
The first order would prefer to run around in a white van
and round everyone up to endless accelerated growth.
But it's only mental growth.
Their bodies are still of children.
It's basically like having an army of midgets around.
Oh, no, large midgets.
Oh, no, physical growth without mental growth.
An army of free target.
But they're all, mentally, they're all 60 years old.
So they have a total body.
Well, at least they're the ones that can enjoy it.
They've explained so much.
Rags needs this seed.
Just just out of a whole army of tall, 60 year olds.
Now, when you see a planet, just press this button.
This button?
Now, got it.
Now, red button.
God damn it, Billy.
What color is red?
Like this.
What color is red?
This is red.
No, no, that's blue.
Oh, oh, my goodness.
This is running around.
I don't know what the fuck's happening.
Watching their friends die.
Oh, this is going to be worse than The Last Jedi.
And then there's a bunch of rooms like with like kindergarten
play rooms all over the supremacy and the Star Destroyers
with like puzzle mats and pegs and I don't know, in 64s.
I don't even know.
You just see one of them one of them batting at one of those
like mobile type things with the they spin and the little things
of dangling down.
He's like, they're literally they're literally playing T-ball.
Oh, my goodness.
I am my throat hurts.
OK, think chat chat.
Do you think this could be worse than The Last Jedi?
Oh, yes or no.
Goodness.
Yeah, just do yes and no.
I think it's possible.
I think yeah.
There's a good chance.
Look how intensely complicated the plot is.
I think we should do a straw ball.
We're not even halfway through the fucking plot.
This is a tangled fucking web of nonsense and oochies.
I mean, it's fucked up.
TLJ was downright simplistic compared to this.
Oh, my God.
A lot of shit happens in this one.
Like a lot of shit.
Like this is crazy.
And I mean, we do have, you know,
like Dukakis, you know, you know,
had some reports that he had rumors that 75 percent of this movie was redone.
You know, well, so this is the thing.
Everything we've read today might actually just not even be a thing
because of how desperately they're trying to fix it all.
I know, but it'll probably be even worse.
You don't even, you know,
be safe bad instead of like stupid, ridiculous bad.
Yeah, she and the McMuffins are canon.
I don't give a fuck what anybody says.
I will not accept things.
That's the end.
She and the McMuffins.
She and the McMuffins.
She and the McMuffins.
Imagine if we get there, we're all interested.
This is the only on this scene.
And he doesn't show up.
And we'd be pissed if we need this.
Anyway, we're all right.
All right. So, oh, Kijimi, back on the surface of the planet Kijimi
and having grown tired of a fruitless search for a
Wait, have you jumped over the or or did you read all the previous one?
Oh, no, I have. Oh.
First order stardestroyer above Kijimi.
Yeah, big fat.
As the heroes escape on Ochi ship,
the group makes the decision to use the passage device
to board the stardestroyer and recapture the falcon.
Oh, OK. All right.
The device works as advertised
and their ship lands without question.
But they're on Ochi's ship.
The ship lands without question.
We I really need to first order ship before I can really not a fully judge this.
I really need to see the context.
I don't know exactly what their device is apparently able to just make them
look like a good guy to the first order, right?
It's basically their transponder signal is what it sounds like.
So the friend or full identification broadcast like a signal
or a rebellion.
I need to see what they actually specifically do.
But like what Rags already brought up the whole like, oh,
there's one ship heading toward us.
It's one of ours. OK.
Like there's going to be it depends on what they do.
Look at it. It's clearly not a first order ship.
Maybe they can't see it.
They can only scan it.
And if they be they surely then hail it and be like, who are y'all?
Unless Ochi was allied with the first order.
They're like, oh, gee, man, you're alive.
Oh, my God.
Contact in the first order.
Did it. Well.
And you also remember back in return to the Jedi when they had a guddle.
They still needed codes, you know, for authorization.
So obviously it's where it's a long time removed from this.
It could have changed.
Yeah. That's what I would look at from, you know, established war.
They don't need to look like a ship from the first order,
because remember, the first order is an army of adult children.
Oh. Mm hmm.
Man babies.
Yeah. OK. All right.
Uh, that's that's that's just babies.
But basically some babies to die.
The device works as advertised in their ship lands without question.
On board the Star Destroyer, the droids log onto the ship's computer network.
I guess they just let them walk around.
Oh, OK.
The droids log on to the ship's computer network to locate the Falcon.
But in the process, they discover that Chewbacca is still alive.
Oh, OK. He was.
Oh, he was on a different one the whole time.
He was on a different one.
They just didn't notice he was on a different one or two.
Yeah. The team hatches.
Because Ray is fucking stupid.
Yeah. Yeah.
The team hatches a plan for a rescue mission.
But Ray splits off feeling as if something is calling to her.
Meanwhile, the others find Chewie, but the rescue attempt fails
and they are all taken captive.
All right. Oh, OK.
The calling Ray feels is caused by the dagger.
Which draws her to it in Kylo's living quarters.
Oh, about you going.
Oh, man.
Is that Kylo poops with the door open dagger?
I don't even know.
Oh, my God.
I like how not Kylo isn't the calling.
It's the dagger.
This fucking piece of sharpened metal.
All right. So Kijimi.
Oh, Kylo's not here.
Oh, yeah, that's right. Kylo's in here.
It's the fucking dagger doing it right back on the surface.
What if it's like Kylo's toilet or something?
No, I have to be like, oh, I have to shit here.
The catharsis, this will bring me this.
He's not. I hate Kylo.
I was here. I I shat in your toilet and I flushed it.
I didn't even leave it for you.
Ray finds Kylo's toilet and it's just wired up with loads of hidden cameras.
He likes to watch himself.
Oh, no, Kylo, why are you so weird?
People back as he can and then feed them loads of food and be like,
Oh, no, don't leave. You don't leave yet.
I've got a I've got a bathroom here you can use.
It's funny. He tricks people into using his bathroom.
Most ninety nine point nine percent of the time.
It's just random stormtroopers walking up and down the hallway.
This is what's up.
You look busy. You need to take shit.
You need to stop it for a bit to spend this time
hanging outside like the door to his court.
So you did it.
It's really easy to convince them because they all have total state of the six
year old.
So they're like, Yeah, sure, Mr.
I'll go poop in your house.
You have to take a seat.
Oh, you did.
They never indoctrinated them to not talk to strangers.
I got some free candy in my bathroom.
You free candy, but only if you shit it out in my bathroom.
Oh, kind of weird, dude.
Shit.
I'm getting a dream that I will for the movie.
With utmost confidence.
Oh, OK. All right. OK.
So back on the surface of the planet and having grown tired of a fruitless search
for a Kylo initiates another force bond with her.
So you can just do that then whenever he wants.
Whenever. All right.
It's literally it's literally a cell phone plan.
Oh, no, I just bought Endor down there.
We're going to Endor at some point.
Oh, shut up, shut up, shut the fuck up.
All right.
He discovers that she is on his star destroyer in
and a lightsaber duel breaks out between the two of them across two different locations.
OK, I just fucking don't.
They're fighting each other well, being in different locations now.
Oh, yeah, man.
From the trailer where they destroy something random while fighting.
Yeah. But how does that how does that how?
How how how? Remember, remember when is it just?
Argue light sabers used to be melee weapons.
Is it just apparently you just argue with them?
The bond got that strong.
They're just every can you just grab her and pull her into his.
I don't fucking know, man.
This sounds weird as hell bathroom.
Yeah, why? Why? Why would she like just walk in here a legend?
Yeah, yeah.
Like there's no way the landscapes light up completely.
There's got to be some kind of fuck up
grab her and just give her a fucking swirly.
Oh, I'm already picturing some kind of crazy CGI and sanity with this
that they put like JJ's just like have like a fucking animal
like charged towards Ray and her wheel.
Then she grabs Kylo jumps into his temporarily.
Then jumps back like some kind of goofy shit. I don't know.
It's like it's like kind of like Doctor Strange.
And yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that's the thing.
This all of this, if they're doing it like this, it just
it makes everything that's written after that and before it.
You kind of just makes you question what the hell is actually going on.
What are the rules? What are the stakes?
That's the fucking problem with this trilogy.
I'm picturing like if he explained this to Palpatine, like Kylo.
He's like, oh, yeah, I have these like this connection.
He's like, how did that happen?
It's like Snoke did it. It's like Snoke did what exactly?
It's like he connected us.
How what do you mean?
It's like he put our brains together like we can
and like Palpatine just this dead pan face.
Look at him like this doesn't make any sense, dude.
Are you sure you're not imagining all this?
He's like, no, it's definitely real in our brains.
He talks to Ray and Pearson about all this.
And she's like, literally, I've never what do you mean?
I don't know what you're talking about.
None of this has ever happened. He's like, oh, liar.
Of course you would say that you're a Jedi.
OK, all right.
Kylo on the surface of Kijimi and Ray aboard Star Destroyer,
the fucking force lightning fight lightsaber fighting in the fucking visions.
All right. During this encounter,
Kylo reveals that there is more to the story behind Ray and her parents.
Oh, boy.
Oh, OK. Ray is the granddaughter of Emperor Palpatine.
Oh, no.
So when did Palpatine just reveal that to her?
How does Kylo know this?
What if her parents, one of her parents, then
was the Emperor's son or daughter?
I guess they don't. OK.
All right.
Well, they fucking led.
That must have been interesting.
Oh, yeah. I'd be more curious about that character
than I am about anybody in the sequel trilogy.
Like, what was it like to have Palpatine as a parent?
And what was it like post his his explosion?
Well, he was saying so much the same.
Well, no, what I'm saying is like, were you in the position
where you had to like hide yourself from people?
You're like, oh, I'm not a Palpatine one.
No, I'm not related to that guy.
No, because I guess bad.
I mean, like if this if this trilogy gave a shit about world building,
then you would want to hide the fuck, you know, away from the galaxy,
from people finding out you were the son of the evil Emperor Palpatine.
You would want nobody there.
People would there probably be assassins after you all the time.
Bounty hunters, unless nobody knew.
I guess nobody would know.
Probably kept a secret or something.
Palpatine was probably just like, you know, fucking a lot.
He was a he was a player he had.
Yeah. Oh, that's why they called him creamy.
Creepy. She.
Oh, my goodness, God.
He had a button in the throne room like the pleasure barge and Ragnar.
He pressed the button.
It's like it's like Quagmire's couch and gun.
Oh, you're probably wondering why I summoned you here.
Suck it. Suck it.
Oh, it has the same button in his.
This isn't the only explosion I'll survive.
OK. All right.
We got to focus, you know, focus very serious work we're doing today.
OK, this is this is important.
All right. Well, raise raise the granddaughter of Emperor.
Of course, he tells her that they are meant to join together on the dark side
and that it's all part of the Emperor's plan.
It's clear that it's clear that by this point in the story,
Kylo is fully committed to what the Emperor's mission for him is.
Once Ray and Kylo's force bond dual ends.
Fuck Kylo makes his way back to his ship and Ray grabs the dagger
and Chewbacca's bandolier and bolts.
What? How does she get?
Oh, she's just oh, no, she she she grabs Chewbacca's bandolier
and then bolts as in she leaves, not also his bolts.
That's what I thought it was originally.
She grabs his bolts.
Like what? Crossbow bolt doesn't actually shoot bolts.
Oh, OK. She how did she find these specific things?
Chewbacca's naked.
If they just bandolier, like in the indignity.
Oh, my goodness.
How did she find those specific things?
Was she just told where they are?
She's right. She.
She had she sent something polar to that room.
Oh, wait. Smell some shit.
Right. His bandolier, this
the aroma. Yeah.
It smells like smells like wet dog in there.
Let me investigate the pleasant Wookiee musk.
All right. Finally.
All right. Once Ray, blah, blah.
Chewbacca's bandolier and she bolts.
All right. Ray bumps into a fresh-minded C3 PO along the way.
OK. OK. Just walking around. All right.
Hands him Chewbacca's effects and the dagger
and tells him to make a run for it.
Something at C3 PO is good at, by the way.
Hands them the stuff tells C3 PO to run for it while she stalls Kylo.
It's the second time that she's done that.
And the first one, she she sent them right.
She sent them to the ship to be like, I'll hold them off.
The same fucking thing again, I guess.
When it appears that all is lost for our heroes
that have been captured by the First Order.
General Hux arrives and surprisingly not only allows
escape, but points them in the direction of the Falcon.
Hux was a mole within the First Order that Finn and Po had received information from.
Of course.
I hope this is right, because if so, that means that I was correct.
No, it doesn't.
No, it doesn't.
You've got stiff competition, my good man.
This is not over.
Where's where's Finn?
Where's Finn even been this whole time?
Oh, yeah.
Where are those motherfucker?
Hux being a mole is actually a pretty consistent leak for a while.
No. Well, like I'm sure he will be the thing.
I'm curious how they're going to argue it, right?
Because if they say he's recently turned,
that's much less egregious than he was always a part of the resistance.
I don't think they're going to try to explain it.
I think they're just going to try to make it happen.
They're clearly not worried about explaining any fucking thing in these movies.
Even so, even if that is the case, as they walk by and they're going to be like,
what the fuck are you doing around all these kids, motherfucker?
He's still actively rounding up children for Palpatine's army.
And he'll be like, oh, fuck off.
It's that's I didn't do anything that rose to go didn't.
Didn't John Boyega say that, like, Finn gets some stuff to do in this film?
Like, where's he been?
He's following people around again.
John is like, my character, he gets to do things.
Yeah, me.
This is what it feels like to be a protagonist.
I run places with other people.
Yeah. Yeah, it's great.
We did it. Hooray.
All his vanity.
OK, so that's the Hux was the mole within the first order
that Finn and Poe had received information from Ray and the other heroes
make a break for the Falcon and escape after they leave.
Kylo kills Hux for treason against the first order.
Wow. Really?
Just just like that.
Yeah, I'm the hero now. Boom.
From this point forward,
General Pride is the sole commander of the first military.
We got a new person, the new persons.
Why even bother with this?
Like new persons in charge.
This is so dumb.
The Emperor contacts Pride and demands that he uses one of the specially
equipped star destroyers to destroy Kijimi as an act of loyalty.
And Pride complies Kijimi is destroyed.
OK, bye Kijimi.
I hardly know why.
We get to blow up a planet.
Speaking of blowing up a planet.
Endor, the information
gleaned from C-3PO's translation of the dagger is getting.
That's not a phrase you expect here in Star Wars.
Here we are.
Leads the location of a second way finder device.
Oh, which turns out to be aboard the wreckage of the second death star
on the forest moon of Endor.
That's not how that works.
We've all been over this.
You don't get to have wreckage of that death star.
Sorry, it's good.
Blo just floated.
Also, any of the parts that were left like Endor's fucking
like the pieces of that thing are going to rain down on.
And like, it's actually terrible.
Don't think about it.
It just evaporated from the explosion.
That's so much better than the chunks and pieces landing on whatever.
Whatever. Yeah, it's great.
But Endor has low gravity, so the chunks can.
No, no, the chunks landed on the side of a mountain
and they just slid nicely and they landed in the ocean.
Yeah, now that we've seen on me, we've seen the fucking pictures
right of the enormous chunk that it is.
It's not like it's it's not like it's a ship size or something.
It's a third of it.
It looks like it's.
It's got the big disk part in it.
The little the big gun, a ray thing.
Firing disk. Yeah, I think.
All right, I guess the explosion just wasn't quite as explosiony as we remember.
It didn't even kill the people on board.
Tell the gravity anymore.
Oh, our memory must have been failing us.
Clearly, this is the Mandela effect.
All right, they re-released the original trilogy with loads of changes.
So this stuff makes sense.
It explodes. There's no real fire.
It just splits into three really bad PNGs that float away.
And then you just see the emperor going like, oh, it's like the Marines
when the ship blows up and it clips through your ship. Yeah.
Oh, that would be OK if we got those all those changes to make this make
so long as we got the McClunky with every single one.
Just like we got for Greedo.
That would be OK.
Greedo stuff that you're opening up a whole another can of worms.
Yeah. So along their way to the wreckage,
the crew comes in contact with a person named Jana.
It is revealed that she was press ganged into first order service
as a child, but eventually escaped and found her way to Endor,
which she has been living for some time.
Ten bucks says she's an insane badass.
I don't know what press, but I don't know what press ganged means.
Like forced, I guess. Yeah.
Let's see at this time, it is revealed that she is the child
that Lando lost to the first. Oh, OK. Cool. Cool.
Man, Jana provides Ray with transportation to get to the Death Star wreckage.
Still seems pretty fucking convenient to have bumped into his.
Wow. We just ran into Lando's daughter on Endor, where she is.
All right.
All right. It's a small galaxy, guys.
Yeah, yes, it is. It's like a couple of meters.
The galaxy. Yeah, it's just 12 people in it.
OK, Ray makes her way to the Death Star wreckage
and begins climbing her way through its twisted remains.
It's possessive. That is not how it applies.
One of my sources told me that this scene feels very reminiscent
of the activities we see Ray doing when we are first introduced to her in TFA.
She eventually reaches the Emperor's throne room.
And and discovers a chamber connecting to that room
that contains the second way finder.
Ray approaches the object and picks it up,
which induces visions of a possible future for herself.
In this vision, we see a version of Ray that has been enveloped
by the dark side has seen in the footage before.
So not a show, which is like imagine putting that in the fucking.
My my sources have also told me
that the voice of Palpatine may be heard during this scene.
The vision shocks Ray and she stumbles back into the throne room
where Kylo Ren is waiting for.
OK, Kylo takes possession of the Emperor's wayfinder, destroys it,
and indicates to Ray that the only way to get another wayfinder
is to go through him and take Vader's.
Vader's got a wayfinder. Yeah.
No, I need to stop a second.
OK, so she came to this place to get the wayfinder.
Why are the two wayfinders?
What if I miss? Why am I confused?
Why are the two wayfinders?
One of them is Palpatine's and one of them is Vader's.
I don't I don't really know what to help anything.
I know, but I don't understand it.
Well, no, there's one.
But there there's there was one more, but there are now there's the wayfinders.
Just call this just call this episode nine.
The Revenge of the Wayfinders.
Yep. I guess maybe the wayfinder leads you to this random
where the square is floating in the middle of nowhere.
They're seeing the hideout, right?
Can video game as what this is? This is a video game.
Yeah, this is this is so stupid.
What is the over and under that you guys
think this is actually going to be reminiscent of what we get?
Well, this is the thing, right?
Like, as much as do you think these leaks are, there will be reshoots.
Sure. Fine. And they'll shift everything around.
Sure. Fine. But some of this is making it in.
80 percent and all of it is garbage.
So we're getting nothing redeemable about any of this.
Yeah. And imagine imagine being told, OK, we have to we have some reshoot time.
You know, we can we can change a few things.
How the fuck do you fix this?
With by reshooting some scenes?
Well, again, that's the thing, though, is it's no matter what you did
with this movie, it was not going to be good.
I don't it's like us.
Like I said a while back, what someone told me, it doesn't matter
if The Force Awakens would have been a good set up and it doesn't matter
if the Rise of Skywalker would have been a good ending.
You still got a piece of shit in the middle of your sandwich.
So when you bite into it, it's still a shit sandwich.
So nothing they do with this movie was going to be good.
But now it looks like they're just chasing their own.
Yeah. Series all type of shit into this.
The series does feel it does feel light.
It feels it feels like shit scraped over too much bread.
I mean, with the whole shit sandwich analogy, it's like, well,
what if this this piece of bread is damp with shit like this?
It was pissed upon before the shit was applied.
And people like, oh, look at that shit in the middle of the sandwich.
Like, I think we should be concerned about all of the pieces at this point.
Someone that crust is salvageable, don't worry.
You know, the smell could be better,
but it's not all a shitty, pissy mess.
That should be the quote they put in the trailer of the film.
It's not all a shitty, pissy mess. Yeah.
Not all a shitty, pissy mess.
Look at that theme.
Look at that shot.
Look at those colors.
Look, the falcon. You're like, no.
Notice, just see how the yellow and the brown mixed together to create.
Oh, with how much of a disaster this film is, by the way,
there will be video essayists doing videos
about how these amazing themes in this film is going to be somebody.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
The theme is going to be like probably like at least 50 percent of the people
who loved the old they're going to have to convince themselves
that their fucking stupid retarded take from The Last Jedi was actually wrong.
And now this new stupid retarded take is the right one.
Like they're going to have to try.
People are going to have to try and convince themselves
that their vehement impassioned defense of The Last Jedi, that turd
was actually wrong.
And they're going to have like a crisis of the mind.
Well, I mean, if that was happening,
when they just conclude that JJ ruined everything.
Who knows? They're going to like they're going to like both.
They're going to they're going to like to look at all kinds of
there'll be people out there who love all three of them,
people who hate all three of them, people who prefer TFA to the other two
and all the other combinations.
She made people who are right.
Correct. Did you say that?
Yes, correct, man.
Quick note before we get back to it.
Every frame of applause is six point five on AMDB now.
Yeah. Hey, damn it.
Yeah, we we're we're we're losing against geeks and gamers.
A bunch of I can't believe a bunch of incel right wingers
went there and brigaded it with positive reviews.
Oh, man, it's those Russian bots.
Yeah, you guys better not fucking go to Efap on IMDB
and give it good ratings.
That would be fucking wrong.
That would be gaming the system.
It would be unprincipled.
That would not be an epic gamer moment.
That would be just the gamers has improved to two point seven.
And I don't really appreciate that.
They're from two point three point four.
We were at two points.
Now we're three point motherfuckers.
There you go.
It's just how Efap was.
Yay.
We appreciate that.
Should we continue?
We shall.
Should we? All right.
We shall.
Here we go, ladies and gentlemen.
We doing this.
That's that's that's that.
The vision shocks you, Kylo.
Kylo takes possession of the Emperor's wayfinder, destroys it
and indicates to Ray that the only way to get another way
through him and take Vader.
I guess that's something he's just carried around with him.
A lightsaber battle ensues, beginning in the throne room
and eventually transitioning to exterior wreckage among the crashing way.
It's like the trailer.
Yep. Looks like we're at the third act again.
We've got to think that we thought the movie was going to be done
after the we thought the first act was like the whole film.
Like so much happens and we're like, oh, OK,
this will be it. No, all right.
OK, so we go to now the resistances.
Jungle Base.
All right. Often another part of the galaxy.
Often a different difference. What?
Yeah, often another part of the galaxy.
Well, Kylo and Ray are right.
Light in the universe begins to fade.
Leia is dying.
What? Just randomly.
Why?
She she was hit by a Death Star explosion 30 years ago.
The radiation.
It's going to be a pillow of Terry Fisher's life.
It's going to be death sticks.
The cocaine death sticks.
I look like I'm sorry.
I just I feel like there'll be something in the movie.
I'm sure of it, right?
There'll be something to explain like, oh, like she didn't just cut to Leia.
But she's like, I'm dying.
What? What needs to be it?
And it's just they couldn't find those two words next to each other.
So the game clip, it's just like, I'm dying.
It's like the I'm is the old layer and the dying is the young layer.
I'm dying.
Oh, somebody
somebody has messaged me saying Skywalker means wayfinder.
Sorry to message, but I remembered that in the canon books.
Thrawn's species.
The word for wayfinder is Skywalker.
Yeah. OK.
Yeah, that's disgusting.
All right. Well, I'm dying.
That's a poop sandwich.
Also, someone has sent me this meme.
I would like to express my enjoyment of this meme.
That's one of them saying the N word.
It's like a big written name.
Someone has someone has sent me this meme.
Stop sending him memes.
I'm supposed to collect them and show them all later.
Now you're going to fucking show them.
Also going to alter all my fucking memes.
Piece of shit.
You don't have to show these on the street.
What the fuck am I going to do?
Have it all of you laugh at something they can't see, you fucking idiot.
That'd be rude.
That's the stream.
This stream has been us laughing at things we can't see.
What are you the fuck are you talking about?
We can literally see what's on screen.
Right. The leaks are right there.
They have no context for these ones.
There we go.
It looks like it looks like Disney stole a fan's tie design
and named a name for the rise of Skywalker.
The tie dagger.
They stole a dagger design now?
I don't know.
I saw that. There's a video about that.
They stole a tie design.
Yeah, they're basically some guys, like little fan, fakey design, some tie.
I don't know what he called it.
Oh, yeah, I'm sure it is.
And he was pretty fair.
He was like, to be fair, like all ties kind of share similar stuff.
They have these certain angular wings.
But yeah, it does look a lot like it.
God, please show us what's making me sad.
Jesus.
What the hell, Kyle?
Kyle, why didn't you do it?
I didn't even notice that, Kyle.
Does it hurt?
Oh, my goodness.
It's beautiful.
OK. And then and someone someone and someone send that one, too.
Oh, goodness gracious.
There we go.
All right.
Show the meme again.
Nope. So.
No, you're not sure.
No, can't show me.
Got to save for later.
Where are we on our leaks?
Let me see. Oh, yes.
Leah is dying.
Leah is dying, everybody.
Leah is dying before her death.
We hear the voice of a familiar hero come to bid her farewell
and pass on one last bit of knowledge.
OK, hopefully, I guess they're referring to.
Mace Windu, I guess.
I don't know. So I've gone in.
That'd be Luke, right?
I think it's going to be Luke.
I think it's going to be Luke coming back and be like, hey,
just, you know, if you want to talk, well, after the afterlife,
this is how you do it.
That's what I think it'll be.
We get lightning, though.
Who fucking knows?
Well, isn't he in this supposedly?
Who fucking knows?
We'll just we'll have to move on.
Who knows?
Hi. Hi, Kylo.
He's a daughter.
It's what you shit.
All right. So on indoor,
as their battle rages on, both Kylo and Rey sense the death
of their respective mother and mentor, they both react.
But Rey recovers from the shock sooner.
Which makes sense because wow, that doesn't make sense.
That is so clunky.
The dark side.
That's but Kylo is the dark side.
Of course he would recover sooner.
Yeah. Why should he care?
Didn't he try to kill her?
If anything, the light side.
People are. Does she get a cheap shot at him while he's grieving
for his mother? You bet.
She recovers from the shock sooner and leverages the moment
to take Kylo's weapon from him and stab him through the chest with it.
What? Oh, they take that.
Wow. That's what you get for caring.
Imagine Luke doing that in the OT like Darth Vader finds out his mom is dying.
So it's like, yeah, I got you now.
But yeah, you're dying, parent fucker.
What an aftermath.
In the aftermath of their concluded duel,
Rey declares to Kylo that she will never be like him.
What do you mean?
You just killed someone while they're grieving for their mom.
She exercises her newfound healing ability.
Oh, my God.
Steals his ship along with Vader's wayfinder device.
Abort it and takes off, leaving her in any.
What? She's a fucking dick.
Fatal blows.
No, it's just a chest stab with lightsaber.
That's never killed anyone.
Honestly, can you just heal anyone like with any wound?
She can heal a worm. She can heal Kylo.
You're dead, Jake.
Also, wow.
You know those like those that veterinary animal planet
shows where they go around healing farm animals?
That's just what she becomes after this.
She just goes around the galaxy healing all the race horses and sandworms and shit.
Healing her butthole after her.
The script is intensely bad, dude.
It's so bad.
OK, as after Ray leaves the forest moon,
the remainder of the resistance crew boards the Falcon
along with their newfound found ally, Janna,
having spent the duration of Ray and Kylo's fight repairing the ship.
So did she never go to Lando because she knew that Lando was.
Is Finn in this film?
He's in the background.
He's in the background, frowning constantly at C3P0 for saying.
He's still here because there's a shot in the trailer of when he deaths wreckage
like while they're having the fight.
I'm pretty sure he is saying he's death star wreckage.
Yeah, and he's running because he does.
He runs and screams Ray, which is just what he does.
So he's definitely there.
Important characters.
Anyway, having spent the duration of Ray and Kylo's fight
repairing the ship and returning to the hidden base on the jungle planet.
Broken and defeated.
Remember how it took Mandalorian and his amazing mechanic friend
like days to fix their ship?
Well, that was different.
I don't because I didn't see it.
OK.
Broken and defeated.
Kylo Ren remains on the wreckage of the second death star
when he is visited by a vision of his father.
Han Solo is a vision.
We doing it.
Han speaks to his son, telling him that it's never too late
to return to the light and make the right choice.
Oh, my God. So funny.
Please, please, let this happen.
Please let this happen.
Please let this be real.
Please let this be real.
Force this might be the greatest moment ever.
Magic Han Solo.
This conversation has a profound effect on Kylo,
and in a symbolic gesture, he discards his lightsaber
and walks away from darkness and the identity of Kylo Ren.
Oh, so that's all it took.
That's all it took.
It's like guy goes up to this.
Hey, stop it.
And he's like, OK.
I actually should be like a try from Han.
I was like, Han, I killed you.
I don't know.
All it took was a pep talk from Han Solo, old Han Solo.
And yeah, Kylo is good.
Kylo is a good man.
He's going to be evil again.
Kylo is a good man.
See, I still I still think Kylo's.
That's why we disqualified him.
Kylo is so inconsistent.
It's insane.
His character is inconsistency.
So we're doing this ago.
Now, hey, guys, would it be better if if the Force goes Han Solo
was Alden Ehrenreich and not Harrison Ford?
They could bring that.
That's that's what I'm hoping for.
Oh, my God, boom.
I just dropped the bomb on you right there.
It's going to be Force Ghost, Alden Ehrenreich.
You just blew up your star destroyer knowledge.
I will come at this moment ever right here.
If you imagine that.
You're really ejaculating.
If it is that with everything else that's happened in this tismy film,
especially audience members will just be like, they're just little
tongue is out of their mouth drooling with like, they're just like, I can't take it.
I mean, too much bad.
I can't do it.
I want that to be.
I want that to happen so bad.
You know, Harrison Ford probably charged fucking 20 million dollars.
Because he does no interest.
So I got to be funny.
But this is just let us remember for a second.
This is fucking if they try to make this like a Force Ghost,
Force Ghost, Normie Han Solo.
You can't that doesn't make any fucking sense.
He's like he's confused.
He doesn't know what the fuck's happening.
He doesn't know where he is.
He's like, I thought I fucking got out of this.
I'm sorry. How is Han a Force Ghost anyway?
Doesn't that like that's what I'm saying?
Yeah. Wasn't he ever did no force shit?
You don't have to to be force sensitive.
You could just be everyone's force sensitive.
And we're really doing this again.
A force goes up and just undoes like years upon years of being fucking shit.
Like, yo, Jamie didn't talk to Kylo like years ago.
That's what Han says to Kylo.
It's his teacher.
Failure is he does that as well.
And you know, the last literally a couple of paragraphs ago,
we just read about how committed Kylo was to the Emperor's plan.
And all it takes is to get his ass beat and then healed
his ass beat again and then healed.
And for Han to say, hey, fuck up, kiddo.
And he's sometimes you just got to stab someone so that they see things your way.
I mean, that's that's that's the theme of the film.
I just I love how much of a pompous ass Ray is going to come off in that scene.
It's like, I could kill you, but I'm not gonna.
I'm not gonna.
Grieving man.
The top comment on this is Kylo and Ray fight three times in this second act alone.
And then someone says, well, I guess JJ wanted the.
Lightsaber battles to end for once.
And it looks as though he doesn't win a single one of them.
Yeah, no, well, dude, there's so many questions, but I guess we'll have to kick on
because a lot of this is missing due to the fact that it's not even all confirmed.
But all right.
Also, if if Han Solo, OK, so Leia is dead.
She is freshly dead.
And so and so like once Leia dies, this happens.
Leia's body still warm, probably from the cocaine.
And so Han is the one who comes to her in a force vision.
Not Leia who just died.
Yeah, it makes no weird.
Leia never gets to see her son.
Well, no, it could have been like she wouldn't be able to.
Dead, you know, she is dead now.
That's why he got stabbed.
No, but as in that's why it would have been her, but they couldn't get her in to read
the lines because well, they've gotten her to do all this shit.
Yeah. Well, they had they had.
They had all of the things that allowed her to do all of these things.
OK. Well, that's what they did have, because if it's true
and they've not reanimated her, then apparently that's what they had.
Is this your argument right now?
Like, oh, they just do it because they reanimated like a dead
Carrie Fisher to serve his bidding in the afterlife as an undead thrall.
If they are claiming to, if we believe that they are only using unused footage,
then yes, that doesn't mean they don't they don't have to.
That doesn't mean they can't use made up audio by some other actress.
They could have done it if they wanted to.
It's weird that they didn't.
I actually think that would have made more sense.
It's an entirely like the we only see the force goes from behind.
Yeah, it's going to take 60 years of cigarettes and heroin to be able to
replicate Fisher's voice.
They're going to be damn good actors.
I'm sure you could find one on the street.
Just for him, the guy at mauler, the guy was telling you, the guy
that made the video about me and it was going after Anna
and a few other people, he deleted his Twitter account now.
Oh, well, he only created it the rest of the year.
He only created it just a few days ago to harass us.
And now he's already deleted it.
So typical T.L.J. fans for you right there.
Wow.
Hey, kill the past.
Delete your Twitter account if you have to.
Are we kicking on with the pot three?
Let's fucking do it.
Only if Alden Ehrenreich's Han Solo force goes shows up.
That's my new thing now.
I'm dropping the Scott Stapp movement.
But Leia's still like old Leia, not old, good looking Carrie Fisher.
Yes, that's what's so awesome about it.
What the fuck?
How how that's so great about it.
I mean, you just press F12.
He gets like a story character and force goes for the hardest with Kira.
Like that's his true love.
And Leia's like, wow, I do not see the dice.
The dice are a thing.
I told you I told Luke to give you the dice to tell you
that I don't love you.
I love her.
Someone says it's not over.
Oh, no, it's just.
Oh, no. No, no, no.
Two. It's actually time.
We're ready for this.
We've it's almost like a whole trilogy.
And and this one is fucked, so it's going to take a while.
This is awesome.
Ryan, is this is this the one where it ends with Ray saying a certain thing?
Yes, the n-word.
Oh, my God, I can't wait to get to the end of this, motherfucker.
May the end would be with you.
All right.
It's powerful, nigga.
So back to our two following her experience on the Death Star,
Ray returns to the island on arc two.
So this is the the Stupid Tism Island that Luke was on in T.L.J., right?
Poor, poor girl.
Throughout the course of the film, she is given into her aggression.
OK, you know, Ray, apparently when stabbed Kyler.
She used force lightning.
Yeah, OK, fine, fine, fine.
Sure.
Nearly killed her friend by unleashing a stream of lightning on a ship.
Learned that she is the descendant of a Sith Lord who reduced the Jedi to numbers
that they have yet to recover from even half a century later.
Saw a vision of herself as a servant of darkness and stabbed her enemy
through the chest in anger.
I mean, she still healed him.
Yeah, she healed them.
Also, they it's they were fighting lightsabers.
They were fighting.
Is this actually like her her through line of thoughts?
Who is she talking to and expressing this?
Well, I don't know.
Or is this just a commentary from her?
Yeah, OK. Her most recent encounter with Kylo was the last straw.
And Ray has now made the decision to follow the example set by Luke
and exile herself on the island with a Jedi began. OK.
What? What? Really?
What? I don't know, man.
But that's do we have other things to do first?
Emperor of the First Order, all of your fucking friends.
Also, is that not that's not actually Luke's example?
Because at the end of T.L.J., he totally isn't doing that.
So, OK.
All of that is the movie says.
Yeah, he was wrong to do that weird race scuttles the ship.
She stole from Kylo and throws the repaired lightsaber
originally constructed by Anakin Skywalker.
And why does everyone keep disrespecting this lightsaber?
What is wrong with you people?
I guess really good lightsaber.
I hate it more than you.
Oh, what is this?
A ghostly hand, a ghostly hand snatches the lightsaber
out of thin air as it's being thrown.
It's Luke Skywalker, Luke's conversation with Ray
is said to be encouraging, yet realistically grim in tone.
What is what's realistically grim?
I don't know.
It seems like the leaker doesn't really have details, I guess.
And yes, that's just what he's been told.
Maybe he's going to say something like, you know,
a lot of good people have been horribly murdered
and assassinated in a character way.
So, you know, you've not got much to work with, but you can still try.
I can just imagine he catches it and then she turns around.
He's got a glass of green milk.
Hey, what's up?
But I guess we've sort of glanced over that.
He caught a lightsaber as a force ghost.
That's interesting.
They fuck it with what Yoda did, right?
Yeah, Yoda did with the sticks.
So even that was like getting something else to do something for him.
Well, no, no, no, he actually like he hit Luke.
Oh, yes, hit him with the sticks.
Yeah, he just looks as to Ray.
Don't worry, Ray.
All the other characters have been assassinated, but you're safe.
You never really had a character to begin with.
She's like, oh, my goodness.
That pushes it.
So Luke knows firsthand what it's like to face Palpatine.
And that's not an easy task.
Ray must confront Palpatine in the same way that Luke once had to confront Vader.
What? What?
Try and convince Palpatine to be a good guy.
That's going to work out.
I can't believe it.
If that is that what they're trying to do, I guess we'll read on.
Luke encourages Ray by telling her of the faith Leia had in her.
She saw the potential within her and hoped that Ray would be able to restore
the balance to the force once more, just as Anakin once did.
Anakin didn't really, as evidenced by this film, he didn't really
he didn't really do a good job, did he?
He sort of Anakin kind of fucked it up, actually.
And that forces balance for, you know, a couple of weeks.
You know, it's balanced for as long as Palpatine doesn't show up or do anything.
That's yeah, that's powers.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
Because he didn't fucking kill him.
So where's the balance?
It would be so awkward if Luke said that.
And then she's like, Anakin didn't really do that.
And Luke's like, OK, well, you know, it's subjective.
Really what it means to balance.
She's like, no, objectively, he didn't find out that Palpatine is still alive.
I guess he knows he doesn't seem to give a shit.
Oh, imagine how much pain those assholes never learned.
I guarantee you Mark Hamill on set when delivering all this shit was just like,
let's just get it done, like snatches the script out of somebody.
And he's like, all right, what do I say?
Palpatine's still alive and you can kill him because you're the one.
It's all been about Ray.
I genuinely believe he will still be trying.
Like that's the kind of soldier he is.
I guess I'm trying to represent his mental state.
Yes, he'll probably be the best actor in this film.
Like it's a good chance.
Adam Driver's got talent.
I get him driver as an actor.
Yeah.
Well, it's a lot of silence, a lot of silence then.
It was a lot of silence.
Oh, yeah, good job, guys.
I just can't say that, Adam.
We said something nice, that's right.
We said something nice and fuck.
Now we do it.
Adam's good in the other stuff I've seen.
Kylo, he just seems to emote a lot to me.
He's very.
Yeah, that's that's.
Yeah, you know, it's like you're doing great, Adam.
You're doing great.
Anyway, Ray supposedly.
Sorry, go ahead.
I'm just going to say a lot of these character like Boyega.
We've seen him do stuff before Oscar Isaacs.
I love Oscar Isaacs and a lot of stuff he's in.
But his character just fucking.
Oh, yeah, three great.
Why are you both saying Isaacs?
It's Isaac.
I said Isaac.
I didn't say I said I said I said Isaacs because I like him so much.
No, I like Ouchy.
Ouchy is my favorite.
Yeah, Ouchy.
Oscar was the old plane in JJ, the jet plane.
Thank you, Rex.
See in the movie, how much I got called JJ, the jet plane at fucking school.
Never met another little guy like this.
So much love with the sky like this buckle up tight.
It's magical flight to JJ, the jet plane.
How did you know that?
Because I'm the oldest of four, motherfucker.
I know all the songs.
All right, then JJ was a fucking little bitch.
I think we're even from this nonsense.
We're reading. Oh, yeah.
Brains have melted. This is true.
Oh, yeah, no, my mind is fucking good.
Mine is soup right now.
Seriously, I can't keep up anymore.
I don't want to be here.
Well, honestly, I mean, I mean, in a planet where this trilogy exists.
That's where I'm picturing the critique for this.
I would have spent like 10 years at every scene.
They'll be like, right.
There's a lot of things to talk about with this one word.
Ray supposedly asks to speak to layer at one point,
but Luke responds by telling her that Leia has not yet completed her training
and he cannot yet feel her distinctive consciousness within the force.
Wait, Ray hasn't completed her training.
She gets better.
Oh, Leia. Oh, Leia.
OK, you know, you know, the dead character.
Oh, no, I'm confused.
I remember more.
Apparently, when you become a forceman, you can train to become a forceman
that can be seen by others.
OK, one. Well, but Horan has completed his training.
Yeah, I can be his training.
I'm so complete to this force.
Fuck off movie.
All right. Now we're seeing some reshoots.
That's that's an actual problem, though.
Can you imagine being the dude who's like the law guy on the set?
Because I'm pretty sure they do have it, but you just fucking give up at one point.
You slab the ground with a face like, why?
Like, why do you like that?
That's our seventh law guy this week who gave up.
He's had to just tell us whatever we do is fine.
That's what they hired them for.
They're just like a legal thing.
Like, yeah, we had a law guy totally.
Yeah, but that's why, you know, that's why they, you know,
we got away with the hyperspace base ram and TLJ.
The law guys are like, yeah, she'll do it.
I don't care. Yeah, whatever.
It's I just I just changed the water and the water cooler.
And they're like, hey, he's five bucks.
Can you do this in Star Wars?
Just write down everything is fine law wise.
Yeah, then sign your name here with your initials for legal reasons.
Thanks to get legal legal to do it.
Yeah, I'm going to assault this water cooler.
I'm going to watch this water cooler shit.
I'm watching it pee.
It's only OK to watch someone shit if it's a woman watching me.
Anyway, I just.
Oh, so by the end of the conversation, Ray is re-energized
for the seemingly insurmountable task that lies ahead of her
and agrees to leave the island.
I don't like that.
So we keep getting the force goes pep ups here.
What the fuck? They need them.
They need force goes to be like, hey, do it. OK.
None of the alive characters are good. Yeah.
Remember the dead characters we ruined? They're back. Yeah.
No, they're better when they're dead.
They're better when they're dead.
Just just like they're better when they're dead.
This is so fucking ridiculous.
Luke raises his X-wing like the fact that they're able to interact
with everything that is just it doesn't make any sense.
Why fucking Obi-Wan couldn't help out Luke
during the entire original trilogy.
Yeah, you just pictured him throwing things at Palpatine while the fights happen.
He's like, stop it. Stop it.
Eat a wrench. Here's a pipe.
Pulls a bucket of sludge all over.
He's like, ah, what the fuck is this?
Oh, my God.
Having destroyed the ship she used to come to act two,
Luke raises his own X-wing previously seen submerged
in the coves of the island to allow Ray to face Palpatine.
Even Luke's X-wing.
Who would have been like underwater for 30 years and it just works.
I don't know how long it's been there, but yeah.
Any amount of time would be suspicious.
She flew oh, cheese, maybe.
I know. Well, I guess it's
I guess I guess if it's built to be insulated from the vacuum of space,
it could keep water out.
I've been told that is not how that works.
Yeah, no, it's a precious ship.
Oh, yeah, that there was like a significant role in this film.
It was like a Futurama bit on that and like, oh, well,
how do you know this spaceship is going to work underwater?
Well, it's a spaceship.
So the pressure should be between zero and one.
Yeah, and then the pressures of the war are completely different.
Anyway, yeah, in addition, it's not the pressure
because it's like right by the surface.
We're still very different to a space.
Also, yeah, yeah, I don't know the specifics on this,
but having water surrounding it versus just nothing or whatever,
like there's there's differences.
I don't know what they are.
Not to mention some fucking rust, man.
Surely that shit would rust.
No, no, they don't have a stainless steel.
Yeah, they always say that you know, they should keep pressure in.
So like spoons.
Go Google it, Rex.
Find out if you're right.
I don't know. I'm just I don't know how spaceships work.
And I said, I said, go Google it.
He said, I don't know.
It's good. No, no, I thought.
No, it's like I'm not I'm not that invested in this.
Oh, I mean, it's not going to corrode or anything.
Fuck. This isn't my this isn't exactly my biggest problem with this film.
Really? What else is there?
Most of it is great.
I was fact that I don't know is is actually this is my only problem.
Yeah, they fix this and it'll be airtight.
Haha. All right.
That many reshoots. It's all good.
In addition to the star starfighter, Luke.
He feels the X wing.
And this actually is the fix.
It's probably going to be a new Luke gifts Ray with a lightsaber
that once belonged to Leia.
Why don't you just give her the one I had a lightsaber?
Wow. How the hell did he get it?
Well, lightsaber, it was in the it was in the beginning at all times.
It was in the beginning of the movie.
Say they trained Leia.
So I guess what it is now.
He tells her how Leia left his saber with Luke when she stopped training
and Luke kept it on him.
But how does that translate to when you're a ghost like how to walk?
Maybe he was over his heart.
Hey, I kept it up.
OK. Oh, I thought he grabbed the lightsaber she threw.
Why don't you give him that one?
Because you're talking retarded and that one's not good enough in cold ships.
You can use the lightsaber to fucking lay.
I had a lightsaber. OK.
He then points Ray to where he kept it in.
Oh, it's in his it's in a hut. OK. OK.
That that makes it make more sense.
Ray boards the.
I bet that lightsaber was definitely there through all.
Yes. Yes.
Ryan was very aware of that lightsaber.
Ray boards the X-Wing armed with the coordinates for Palpatine's location
obtained from Vader's wayfinder and leaves the planet.
Oh, right.
The Resistance Jungle Base.
After returning to the jungle base, several things happen
after seeing the sacrifice made by three p.m.
OK. Several things happen because enough hasn't happened.
Too much.
I thought it was happened.
R2 reveals that he has a backup of C3 POs memories at his archives.
Of course, of course, and he didn't bring it up when it's going to happen.
Listen, it's just what it's what droid friends do.
They back up each other's memories.
I mean, it's just like he was there.
R2 was there for the scene where C3 POs memory gets wiped.
So why didn't R2 be all like, oh, it's no big deal.
Just go ahead and say anything.
This is going to be hilarious.
OK. He wasn't there, though.
That was just that was BBA.
No, he was being a he was being a pal.
And he wanted R2.
He wanted C3 POs that have his hero movement moment, not hero movement.
That's right in Kylo's bathroom.
But I'm talking about C3 P.O.
Like like R2 is such a pal.
But like this is what we suggested when we were reading it.
Making the hero moment.
We were like, just have a copy of it.
But then later the film was like, there was a copy the whole time.
I was like, fuck off.
OK. OK.
It says it's an older C3 P.O., but it's better than no three P.O. at all.
Sure. It's an older code, but it checks out.
Lando, wait, why couldn't
if they know that data could be copied, why didn't they all think to copy
his memories before it happened?
Well, that's that's part of what we brought up.
Yeah. Yeah. R2 is there.
R2 is there while they're wiping his memory.
We'll have to do that, too.
He's actually standing next.
Well, no, hang on.
Let me send you a timestamp for it in the trailer.
Yeah, you know, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter, though, because they can still edit it, Jay.
They could still not be that.
Right, because Chewbacca is also there, right, Jay?
And we know that you ought to be dead.
So they added that in.
So you think that he's actually friends.
Why would see why would you not be there, though?
Wait, no, hang on. I'm watching the scene.
No, Chewbacca doesn't look like he's there.
Oh, it doesn't matter anyway.
Like I said, they could still change it.
But you're right.
If if they keep him there.
But the leaks at the moment.
No, yeah, I said like I said, you know, if I can help, I said if he is there,
it will be stupid, but I'm pretty sure they're going to change it.
Also, Jay, you just cited the fucking trailer, not the leaks.
Yeah, Jay Jay. Oh, yeah.
Chewie is there in the trailer.
Never mind.
Retarded blue plane.
Got him.
So Lando reenters the story.
OK, having changed his mind,
coming to the jungle base and wanting to help however he can.
Fine. Get everyone together.
Yeah, it's going to be a big final battle.
It is at this time that Ray begins transmitting coordinates
to the unknown regions, obtaining from the obtained from the way finder
to the resistance resistance mobilizes,
readying themselves for the impending conflict.
This is so everybody's going to team up to attack his army of death
stars, destroyers, while Ray and Kylo team up to fight Palpatine.
That's probably it and then.
So how many star destroyers are there?
It's one point two billion, maybe.
There you go.
Give or take a few.
Ray follows the coordinates found in the way finder to the same spot
Kylo did earlier in the film.
I guess she found the cube.
Ray lands outside the giant cube floating above the ground
and makes her way through the same underground passage.
The cube composed of black rock floats several meters above the ground
and is so massive that one corner,
whoa, one corner cannot be seen in the frame
when the camera is at another. Whoa.
That's a big. That's a big thing.
Yeah, that's so big.
That's not even in the film. Wow.
It's the big for the green.
Are you guys impressed by this green?
Oh, man.
Think of how big it is.
You can't even see all of it.
Woo wee.
As Ray travels down into the depths of the planet,
giant Sith statues can be seen
where Ray and Kylo's experiences begin to differ.
Come in with where Ray discovers Palpatine.
Palpatine is not in the same chamber that Kylo discovered him in,
but in a huge arena surrounded by Sith loyalists
and dark cloaks in the grandstands.
OK, the aides are back.
Oh, are they here?
I mean, the aides are up and running, I guess.
Yeah. All right.
Yeah. Palpatine is being supported by some kind of mechanical arm
possibly connected to him, connecting him to life support machinery.
Ray begins to confront Palpatine.
You need life support after what he's been through.
Just a bit. Yeah.
Like maybe maybe just some morphine should be right.
Yeah. During this conversation, Sidious
let's not high spell Sidious reportedly confirms Ray's lineage
and goads her on to take up a lightsaber and strike him down.
Very much like how he encouraged Luke to do the same thing 30 years prior.
I don't know if you guys knew that.
Did you guys you didn't know that?
Oh, wow.
Didn't didn't even seem familiar to me at all.
It's like poetry. He's really happy they put that in there.
Telling her that only in killing him will she gain the power
needed to save her friends.
Palpatine also apparently makes statements alluding to the belief
that Vader could not betray Luke due to their familial bond.
And that same kind of bond would ultimately cause Ray to do what the emperor wishes.
What? So so so it wasn't Vader's choice.
He just sort of had to because he was a family member.
I don't think that's how that works.
But Emperor's well, you're made of Michael.
Yeah, fuck. Yeah, Darth Vader didn't even choose to do the heroic things he did.
So fuck you.
He was related to Luke. He was fucked.
Fuck you, old character. You suck.
During his taunts, the sickly Sith opens the roof of the stadium chamber,
revealing that the sky above is filled with star destroyers
soon to be embroiled in combat with the approaching resistance.
How exciting. Wow.
As as the battle wait to hear how they all get destroyed.
Oh, yeah, it's going to be great.
As the battle between the first order slash empire,
I like that they've just almost given up.
Call them the first order.
It's like this, like an empire.
The resistance begins to rage in the skies above them.
What resistance?
I don't know. The 20 people that now have become like a thousand people or something.
How is it from Star Wars Rebels?
Yeah, that's it. That's it.
They all got together.
Like, because we've seen the pictures of all these fucking star destroyers.
How do the what are there?
There's like how what ships who?
Well, we get the shot in the trailer of literally it looks like
they just took every style of ship they'd ever seen in a fucking Star Wars movie
comic game and pile it all together for one fucking shot.
So the whole galaxy of misfits are joining together to resist this.
I don't know.
Uh, OK, Ray gives into the Emperor's commands and decides to strike him down.
Through me, like what?
She's what got all of these ships to assemble.
I don't like the destruction of five planets, not do it for you.
I mean, it's not it's not really covered in this.
I don't know what brought them all together, I guess.
Just we got to beat the thing.
Does someone steal skin?
Good reference.
Lando, Lando knows a bunch of people.
They're just a bunch of old.
There's a bunch of old contacts.
Yeah, he's like, I got in touch with some old contacts.
Fucking damn it, dude.
Well, we've we've been told Wedge Antilles.
So maybe Wedge knows some fucking old people from back in the day.
They're going to come assassinate their characters as well.
Like a series of elderly people like, let's do it.
We've got this.
They're fighting for a good current.
So in some chat said parents angry that their kids have been kidnapped.
So they're going to go kill them.
What the fuck?
They could kill it.
No, they're angry at the kids.
They're angry at the kids for getting kidnapped.
I see this is this, by the way, if this was the movie, again,
the idea of having a cinema full of people who are ready to laugh at this.
Can you imagine the laughter erupting in the audience?
It would be so great.
I want to go.
I want to go to a special like, yeah, obviously,
it's going to be shit screening full of like minded people.
That's what they call it.
And they're like the Odeon sort of listings like the the obviously
is going to be shit showing like Odeon.
Odeon is going to be a company over here.
Oh, she's going to be in Seattle around that time.
And, you know, being Seattle as crowded as it is,
I'm wondering what the crowded theater is going to react to a lot of this.
If it's true, if it's true.
Oh, my God, at least we're close to the what you could call an end, I think
through means that are still a bit foggy.
Ben Solo was able to leave the wreckage of the Death Star
and his former persona behind and travel to Exegol
with the purpose of joining Ray to help face down Sidious
before leaving the Death Star.
Yes, he destroys his first owner.
He destroys his first suit.
Yeah.
Before leaving the Death Star wreckage, Ben abandoned Kylo's lightsaber.
So now he's walking into a war zone with no weapon. OK.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
When he arrives on the planet, he encounters the Knights of Ren
who are guarding the entrance to the arena where Ray and Sidious are.
Ben reportedly dispatches each of them using only the force.
What was the point of that?
All right.
That's consistent with what we know about.
Oh, my God. Ray was not Ray.
JJ was so happy to bring him back.
And apparently all they do is like stand around in one scene
and just get killed later, like, oh, all right.
Yeah, because I thought weren't they like, I guess maybe I don't understand
what happened to them.
I thought they're in the shuttle that Chewy, they thought Chewy was in.
But all right. Yeah, I guess, yeah, it will have to see the movie
because this is like one of the most inconsistent set of leaks ever.
Like, this isn't just contradicting stuff we already know from other stuff.
It's like this script itself is so confusing.
But it's so detailed.
It has to be fucking.
Yeah, like I'm so I'd be surprised if all this was made up.
I seriously doubt it.
And it's consistent with what we see in the trailers as well.
It makes all of the stuff we saw in the trailers make sense.
Yeah, like in a narrative way, which it's really hard to do from just a trailer.
Well, we're at the point where nothing is too nonsensical for Star Wars now.
So that helps.
Yeah, space was just for children, guys.
Yeah, talk, talk, think about it written on a T-shirt.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
He did do that, didn't he?
Rags, do you know about that?
I think I showed you right.
The the Patrick Willett shit where he's just got it's a space movie.
The space was it's meant to fucking now.
I can't even speak anymore.
It's the very best bro.
The jail, bro.
Just like just like fucking Freddie, fucking princess for fucking kids, bro.
He he he had the that sentence that Jay just said.
He's put that on a T-shirt and he's selling it to people.
Oh, the sentence.
Oh, no, it's such an embarrassing fucking sentence.
That is why would you want that on a T-shirt?
That is embarrassing.
It's an insanely stupid thing to say, especially with somebody
who loves the film to death and he can't get enough.
He argues it's a masterpiece with like incredibly deep themes.
And it's how do you say that that while simultaneously being like, guys,
stop caring about it.
And then for children.
And then that just brings it the whole, why can't you care about
something that was made for a child?
What?
He also has a shut up about plot holes, right?
He was so wrong about that, too.
He told him he was wrong and put them on a bed.
Shit on a shirt, he's he's he's going to be like a review from a white guy
probably isn't going to have much to say about Black Panther.
Yeah, I noticed you didn't put that on a fucking shirt.
Oh, well, that's that's this next one.
If he makes a shirt about the rise of Skywalker, he's going to fucking
the fonts can be really small, though.
Fucked up about this movie.
Oh, yeah, the name of this film is Rise of Skywalker.
I know what we're getting to with that.
All right. All right. Let's let's just get to the.
Let's kick off after doing this.
He enters the arena as Ray is about to strike the emperor using Leia's blade.
Ben grabs Anakin's lightsaber and warns Ray to reconsider what she's about to do
to to not kill the emperor in anger.
Kill him in happiness.
Seeing bed arrive pleases Sidious.
He then uses his power to bond them together and begins to siphon
power from that bond and direct it into himself.
Oh, OK. What?
We need to start siphoning race power when she was.
I guess you can only do it to the dyad rags.
It has to be the dyad.
Oh, there you are.
As the power flows into him, the once silky and decrepit Palpatine.
Why does this say silky?
Silky.
Silky.
The once creamy and decrepit Palpatine stands tall.
Strong once again, restoring himself to a much younger, healthier state.
Creamier states.
We get we get original chief back.
All right. Well, we get untestically.
She's got to be a typo.
What the fuck does silky mean?
Silky and creamy, I don't know.
While all this action is happening on the ground,
much more explosive events are happening in the sky.
The resistance and the first order are locked in battle.
The details I have on what happens during this branch of the plot
are a bit sparse at the moment.
But here's what I've been told.
The resistance arrives and they are confronted
with hundreds of Palpatine Sith Star destroyers.
Their goal is to take out the flagship of the destroyers
where General Pride is located.
Taking out the flagship will supposedly sever communications
with the rest of the fleet and prevent them from being able
to navigate the perils of the unknown regions.
Wow, that's convenient.
What? That's because they're manned by children.
You think about how many people are on these ships
and how big these ships are.
And you're like, can't they store information on these?
No, they have to have that one ship lead them all.
Whatever. Let's just remember the TLJ's logic of all ships
have trackers, but only one of them is ever active.
Yeah, that makes sense, right?
So dumb. It's so all of it's so dumb.
But yeah, a convenient way to knock them all out at once.
You just got to knock out the big.
I just like the idea that it's like General Pride.
This seems like a weakness in our set of ships.
And he's like, no, no.
Just seems fine to me.
But our data plan can only afford to have one.
Also, this means they can't navigate.
What is it? Navigate the unknown regions,
the unknown regions like, OK, so well, is it implying
that there's like a there's like an environment of like rocks
and shit or something that they'll stay here, win the battle.
And then when you're done, like, I don't know.
That out. Yeah. Yeah.
Sort that out. That has a communications rate.
Yeah. That's really dumb.
At one point during the battle, Finn and Janna or Janna, Janna,
joined by others, but exactly who is not clear to me right now,
land on Pride's flagship to destroy it.
They recognize this as essentially a suicide mission.
But Finn and Janna in particular see the price they may have to pay as worth it.
I think that's supposed to be worth it.
And they're doing it because it will prevent more children
from being abducted like they once were.
Oh, how thematically relevant.
They're really pushing this child in this film.
It's like so fucking cheap is like you don't want children to be abducted.
Do you? That's a bad.
Wouldn't steal a child to download a child downloaded.
One of my sources described it to me
like a D-Day type mission for the resistance where they attempt to land
on a moving star destroyer amidst the battle scene on horses.
Right. Space horses.
And then of each other. Where the fucking horses come from?
The movie about space horses intended for children.
I actually think that I think there's part of this.
I think that like the Star Destroyers we saw in the trailer,
they're like fucking underground or some shit
because you see a scene of them like bursting up through.
Oh, I think that they're going to be the whole space horse thing.
I think they're like just riding horses on the planet
when the fleet begins to come out.
So they're like happening on top of one could be right.
Yeah, that's what I've always thought, which is, you know,
the space is stupid, it's really fucking dumb.
But I think that's how that scene comes about.
Oh, anyway, having returned to full strength,
Palpatine then shoots lightning into Ben,
forcing him to fall into a bottomless abyss.
Well, we know those are fatal anymore, so he's never to be seen again.
Yeah, that's it.
He's fine.
That's how that's how he dies right there.
No, no, no, no, no.
It's he'll be fine if the planet they're on after explodes
because that'll cancel out the aids.
That's it for Kylo.
He just falls off a fucking cliff.
Oh, that's one less shit character.
But I want to hear the Wilhelm scream.
I want to.
I need to know,
like, what Kylo fans think of that.
They don't care about quality.
Yeah, they don't give a fuck.
They're like, wow, what a great send off to my great character.
Yeah, you've seen the videos, right?
There's loads of and this is such a deep, well fleshed out character.
Yeah, this was a really deep video essay about Kylo,
about how amazing he is as a character.
It's like he turns up and he falls off a fucking cliff like that's good.
That almost seems like JJ's fucking with him.
I don't know.
Really?
Part of it, there's no there's no Ray low bullshit.
No, no, no, as he's falling off so far, as he's falling off the cliff, he comes.
Just a spiral.
It's like it's like reaching out hand.
We should floor skype him on the way while he's down and gives him, you know,
flash, it's a long, it's a really long fall.
So she has time to force Skype in before he dies.
One last force ball.
One last time.
Yeah, all right.
Like, I don't know.
I just I needed time to acclimate to that.
I think Mueller is broken.
Mueller is broken.
The idea that he falls, he just falls off a cliff.
That's insane.
But OK, yeah, that happens.
I can't believe you care about what happens.
It's not that it's it's like watching someone you've never met before
shoot themselves in the head.
I'm like, whoa.
You mean like predator?
And then you're like, why do you care?
You haven't met that person.
I'd be like, I don't need to have met them.
Yeah, but still like what?
It's it's literally like subversion of expectations, right?
We have all this build up of him in this movie.
He finally seems to make a choice.
He's turning back to the light side for good.
And then he just is unceremoniously thrown out of a cliff.
Fucking dead.
Yeah, we've been right all by ourself for now.
But no one's ever really gone.
Oh, my God.
Imagine him coming back in the sequel sequel trilogy.
Or he'll just come back immediately as a force goes.
Yeah, or he'll just come back at the end of this kind of stinger.
Yeah, the last scene in the movie is just him like he's just
falls to the bottom of the cliff.
And he's like, oh, that hurt because honestly, when you see
something like this happen, however, they film it, it's the kind of
you remember Gollum getting flung off by Frodo just before she loved
her shit? It's kind of like, oh, he'll be back.
And I love the idea that you see it and you're like, oh, Kyla will be back.
And the credits rolled.
You're like, hello, where are you?
But the end of the movie, he's sitting on like a branch at the edge of a cliff,
just like they do in the cartoons.
Oh, no, he's at the post credit scene.
He's like Ramesses at the end of Prince of Egypt,
where he's just like on his rock cursing.
And that's just how it ends.
You don't know what happens to him after that.
He's just angry.
Sidious then shoots lightning into the sky at the resistors.
That's a real thing that happens.
That's the picture.
Remember that picture? Oh, my God.
That's going to happen.
I'm going to have such a huge grid on my face in the cinema when that happens.
If he's doing it with finger guns, I can forgive this whole movie.
It's going to be jazz hands.
Yeah, jazz hands.
As long as it's not clapping.
I mean, good Lord, this is like you have to take a step back sometimes
and just be like, yeah, this is real.
Yeah, it's like we're not in some alternate universe or anything.
Yeah, it's a real way when you read it.
It's it's very much kind of like Game of Thrones.
You really like, oh, it can't be like that.
And I can't wait till we actually get to see it
because it is going to be this bad.
Really? The Game of Thrones.
Oh, it's probably going to be more fleshed out than that, though, isn't it?
He's going to be like that.
They got to get the most of the people saying, like, you know,
it might turn out to be a lot different.
And I'm like, what if it turns out to be one to one with this?
Oh, oh, my goodness.
I would be so happy.
So I think that the ending is going to be the thing that can change
based on what we've heard.
Looks like the ending is where.
All right. Well, I guess, yeah, we'll get to reading this.
So he reportedly continues making statements about how Ray will join him.
In defiance of this, Ray grabs both Anakin and Leia's lightsabers
and Palpatine turns his wrath on her.
It's a lightsaber versus lightning at this point.
Well, it's like this lightsaber at this point.
And when it seems like all hope is lost for Ray, the specters of Luke
and Leia come to her aid.
They jointly work toward overpowering on.
Oh, no. Overpowering the Emperor,
deflecting lightning back toward himself,
killing him and unleashing an explosion powerful enough
to make the arena start to crumble around them.
Darth Sidious, the last of the Sith Lords is finally dead.
No, he was dead a long time ago.
He was dead a long time ago.
How how does that kill him?
But the exploding death.
This is actually terrible, by the way.
Having the force ghosts fuck the fight up completely,
because this is exactly the same as the hyperspace Kamikaze.
You don't do this because nobody else has done it.
And if you do it, you fuck up every fight that's happened before now.
Thanks a lot.
And now if if they kill him now,
then he'll just come back as a force ghost and he's even more powerful.
This is a joke.
Like this is this is every possible like stupid you could do
that would remain after Ryan had done all of his stupid like,
what else can we fucking ruin?
How can this force ghosts being able to just alter fights like that, really?
Yep, I still can't get over the fact that this doesn't
like contain further explanation.
No, what I survived what the leaks are.
This is just this is it.
Honestly, looking more forward to this film now after we've read through this.
I mean, you you you read this already, right?
Yeah, yeah, I'd read it.
But but just going through it and really picking it apart.
I'm now more excited than I was thinking.
No problem.
At this same time,
Finn and Janna complete their mission and succeed in destroying Pride's flagship.
I guess that's just something they can do.
Of course they do. That's something two people can just do.
They fired their horses.
They figured it out.
They found the horsepower.
They went into the control room and they pressed the button
and it exploded everything. Nailed it.
And 10 bucks says that in this sequence,
Finn will be useless and Janna will be the most badass female character
who was ever badass ever.
And she's just insanely good.
She just kills all the stormtroopers and does all the button pressing.
Do you like how Finn is goofy about it?
He's like, Oh, what? You killed people?
Well, this is the super basic screenwriting thing as well.
They're like, what can Finn do in this movie?
We need to make it make some like sort of arc.
What was his thing again?
It's like, oh, he was like a kid who was made to be a stormtrooper.
And he escaped, I guess, like, oh, make it so that he stops
the first order from stealing a bunch of kids, I guess that'll work.
What should you do up to that point? Nothing.
Oh, no, he just came in at the end there.
Damn, John, you're going to experience even more messages
for people saying they were disappointed even more.
This right. Yeah.
So the two are prepared to go down with the ship,
but they are rescued in the last second by the Falcon, because of course,
Ray escapes the crumbling arena.
Could you imagine Ray just died or none of us would believe it?
We'd be like, no, no, they were not going to happen.
She's having having a one day.
It ends with everyone being a force ghost.
Luke will just hang it out.
And everything's better.
Even Sidious is there.
He's like, so now what?
You want to play Monopoly or something?
I call the hat.
They all start battling over who wants the hat.
I'm the hat, goddamn it.
I'm a Sith Lord.
I don't take this shit from people.
That's fine if I can be the cop.
You're the plane, the jet plane.
There isn't a plane.
Apparently, what's been altered about this is that
Ray's on the floor and she hears the voices of Obi-Wan, Leia and Ahsoka.
Ahsoka, yeah.
And she like channels all of that into herself and beats Palpatine herself.
How the fuck, who does she?
Oh, that fixes everything.
I was going to say, that's just fucking terrible, but okay.
That's even what she doesn't know who Obi-Wan Kenobi is.
Does that matter?
She didn't even know like Luke Skywalker would feel like a year ago.
She didn't even know who Luke was.
It's ridiculous.
So we're nearly there.
We're nearly there.
So having won the day, obviously, the survivors of the battle regroup at the jungle base and
celebrate what follows is apparently celebration across the galaxy.
Once again, mirroring what we saw at the end of Return of the Jedi.
Well, of course, because that's all this ever was,
was it didn't quite end in Return of the Jedi.
Okay, now it's ended.
Yeah, now it's ended.
Now we can have our new-
Now it's ended for realsies this time.
We're not going to have a real-
Until Disney wants more money.
I don't know if they can make any more money.
When is the galaxy going to get sick of these evil empires destroying planets?
When are they going to do something about that?
I thought the rules were that now that there's a bunch of Jedi,
or at least Rey, the force is going to bring up a new Sith of equal power.
That's how this works, right?
That's how you balance the force.
Yeah, it's completely fucking wrong.
It's for Rey to kill herself.
No, because then there'll be someone else,
and no one's ever going to be better than Rey.
So she needs to stick around as well.
But doesn't she want to become better?
And who replaces Kylo?
Is Kylo good or evil?
He's a good man now.
He's dead, isn't he?
I guess.
He's a dead man.
You see, the thing is that he fell off a cliff, so he's fine.
No, no, we're not in this fucking universe.
I need to see a body.
What do you mean you just see a body as if that'll change anything?
No!
When have we seen a dead body that came back?
Yeah, it depends on what constitutes a dead body,
because, like, does Maul count?
I see a corpse.
I want a corpse, and I want a doctor to confirm that it's dead.
We literally had Palpatine obliterated, and you're like,
Exactly, there's no body.
Exactly.
There was no, we didn't get a body.
Why are you obsessed with the body?
Because we need to confirm visually that there is a corpse.
I'm suggesting, though, that that doesn't fucking matter in this universe.
They will.
You don't need to confirm there's a corpse.
You need to fucking, like, see the corpse and then see it be slowly, like, cut apart.
Separated by atoms.
Hold on, didn't we see?
If you see it, that's fine.
Once you've got to have the body first.
I like the idea that they're doing that with Palpatine.
They're cutting him into atoms to make sure he's definitely gone
as soon as they finish the camera pans up and Palpatine's, like, as a ghost.
Yep, he's gone.
Like, fuck's sake.
Gosh, it'll take me, like, four months to reform.
Yeah, he's definitely gone, except I have forced body heal.
I was just hoping you would say, like, oh, they show them cutting up Palpatine,
so he's definitely gone.
And then just the ending of the film, as it pans up and Palpatine's still there,
like, I survived.
Jesus, Ray, what the fuck are you doing to Palpatine's body for the months?
This is getting a bit weird, Ray.
It puts the lotion on its skin.
It's just that montage where they're all cutting pieces
and Palpatine's one of the people doing it.
He's cutting the piece with them, like, they're really upbeat music.
He's cutting this dick off.
Dude, what the fuck?
Okay.
I need to cut my dead dick off.
Here we go, here we go.
You're cutting off the creepy shit.
So bear in mind, this is probably not going to be what the actual ending is.
There could be a whole bunch of endings, whatever.
This is one we got.
So for the end of the film, the heroes then travel to where everything began.
The desolate, sand-swept planet of Tatooine.
Oh, no, that's Naboo.
I mean, yeah, Naboo's where it began, yeah, technically.
That's where all the story began.
Yeah, the space, the space over Naboo and Naboo orbit.
That's like they haven't even seen Phantom Menace.
Disgusting.
Between defeating Sidious and this moment,
Rey has disassembled Anakin and Leia's lightsabers
and used their components to construct one of her own
that I'm told contains a gold-yellow blade.
Okay.
It's a holy blade.
Rey buries the leftover pieces beneath the Tatooine stands
at the site of the Lars homestead.
I'm going to bury your lightsabers with your bodies,
but not the useful bits.
I'm keeping them.
Yeah, I'm keeping them.
As Rey turns to join Finn, Poe, Janna, Chewie, R2, 3PO, BB-8, and DO,
because everyone loves DO, a stranger calls out to her.
The stranger apparently speaks of how nobody has been
seen around this land for a very long time and asks Rey for her name.
This is the second time in the film that this question has been posed to her.
But unlike her response to Pisana, on Pisana,
Rey has decided who she is.
She gives the name Rey Skywalker to the stranger,
adopting the name of her masters
and revealing the primary meaning of the title of the film.
Hear that though?
Rey has decided who she is.
This is all going into you can identify.
Whatever the fuck you want to identify as.
It's a social commentary.
I identify as the character people love.
Bullshit.
Fuck you, Disney.
This is her choice.
Fuck you, Rian Johnson.
Fuck you, JJ Abrams.
Fuck you, Kathleen.
Molly, you said that this could all be up for change,
but they can't change the title sake of the film.
Well, it could be something else.
I don't know.
The part that people have been talking about is changing
is the battle sequence between Kylo and Palpatine and Rey,
because evidently the first screening,
like Rey just...
It was described as Rey curb stomped Palpatine,
and the audiences were like,
are you fucking kidding me?
So they re-shot it a couple of times
with different cast audiences.
That's the rumor.
Honestly, guys, I feel like this is probably it.
This is actually the film, most of this.
I feel like this is what we get.
It makes sense that it would be this.
As Rey begins to rejoin her friends,
she catches a glimpse of some familiar going figures
watching over her.
The assembly of heroes look off to the distance
of the horizon of the desert planet
and watch the twin sun set on a universe
filled with hope.
Fuck you.
I hope we see Force Ghost.
Until 20 years from now,
and we need another new evil galactic empire
to blow up some more fucking planets
until there's no fucking planets left.
I hope we see...
Watches.
I hope we see Force Ghost.
Jar Jar.
And yeah, apparently there are more from this guy
that'll like changes, edits,
and redos of whatever information
that's cycling in and out and stuff.
But I mean, that's probably the chunk of it.
Adam Driver seemed pretty excited
about the direction of his character
just for bed to be thrown off a cliff.
I'm gonna get down to hell,
but I think this is terrible.
Don't worry, buddy.
We're right there.
Who read this and thought it was great?
Please tell me.
Comments are all just like finding issues with it.
It's just it...
I can't...
I can't help.
Like, um...
I want this film.
At this point, it seems falling into an abyss
to your death in the Star Wars universe
just means you will come back even stronger.
Yeah.
Somebody says,
Darth Sidious, and they quote it,
Darth Sidious, the last of the Sith Lords,
is finally dead.
Finally.
Man, I was so stressed out at the end
of Return of the Jedi, I'll be...
They look into the sky with the fireworks,
the music, and the happiness.
They're like,
what are we gonna do with Sidious still alive?
I like how literally nobody on the planet
thought that Palpatine had survived.
He's finally dead.
Boom, he's back.
He's already finally dead.
They are a bunch of cunts.
Like, there's no other way
to fucking look at this.
Like, how could you?
Star Wars is really awesome.
Like, it was really cool.
I like how...
This is a good comment.
Say you're saying,
Force, Ghost, Leia, and Luke,
watch Ben get pushed into the abyss,
but they help out Rey.
That's like...
Oh my god.
My mentor that I think I failed,
and my son.
Ah, fuck him.
Let's help out Rey.
Jesus.
If this leak is real,
remember that the story
is written by the same guy
who thought it'd be better
for Leia to mourn Han's death
by hugging someone
she's never met instead of Chewie.
Chewie probably smelled a bit.
Where was Matt Smith
in this whole thing?
He was playing Onision.
No, he was the Frick character.
He was Ochi and Frick.
He was every character
that we haven't confirmed,
like who they're played by yet.
He was Kylo, fuck it.
Adam Driver was excited
about playing Kylo
because they're working
towards something
in particular with him.
I think I'd have picked
a different favorite character
if I had known
that something in particular
meant being used
as a reenergizer battery
and then yeeted into the abyss.
So bad.
Someone just says,
thanks, I hate it.
Yep.
Sweet and to the point.
Taking out the command ship
renders the rest of the fleet
unable to navigate.
You fucking serious.
Can you seriously make the F.O.
more incompetent
than they were in TLJ?
They're so non-threatening
and they're going to be
even more non-threatening.
This is like,
they've actually managed to find it.
They've managed to find the movie.
Everyone fucking hate this.
What a trilogy man.
These TLJ fans,
but people who were turned off
at TLJ,
people who were turned off
Force Awakens,
everyone,
everyone's going to hate this.
This movie was made
for fucking Eric Butts.
This is who this movie
was made for.
It's just stuff.
Things happen.
Fuck it.
Shit.
Eric Butts is going to love it.
Laugh and clap.
Consume product.
Cheap.
Also, this comment here,
Luke's X-Wing
was functionally didn't use it.
This is really going to sit well
with the TLJ haters.
This includes myself.
Yeah, it was.
So it was functional
the whole time.
Oh, fuck.
I completely forgot.
Yeah, those people are arguing
it wouldn't have worked.
Yeah, but yeah,
this is confirmation
that Luke could have just fucking
left whenever he wanted.
Yep.
But you know,
pulled it up out of the sea
probably is better than ever
and has some barnacle blasters on it.
Barnacle blasters.
Yeah.
Can't wait to see through
say the N word though.
Oh yeah, that's the big part of it.
Well, that's the that's the leaks
and I know that people are like,
hey, there's more.
There's difference.
There's there's like,
I think we've covered the bulk
and it looks like the differences
significant,
but mostly like running
along the same track,
if that makes sense.
I don't know.
What do you guys any other thoughts
before we move on?
I thought it was great.
I really liked it.
It's my favorite film.
No lie.
People will I mean,
what people I mean,
with all this.
Yeah, I mean,
that's the whole thing is
there's not the people
that are going to be left
to dip in this are going
to not be taken seriously at all.
Whether you again,
I was a fan of The Force Awakens
and then after the force
or after the last Jedi
kind of ruined
The Force Awakens for me,
but there were people
that hated The Force Awakens.
Initially, you've gotten every
pretty much you've gotten everyone
at this point that hates
this trilogy is that
for a few mindless zombies
and this is just going
to confirm everything
we've been saying
about this trilogy.
I can't wait for it.
I'm looking forward to it
and I'm serious.
I want Alden Ehrenreich,
Force Ghost Han Solo.
I'm calling if it is just like this.
This film is going to be
talked about for a while.
This is this is bad.
This is going to be like
the fucking this is going to be
the beginning of the end
for like this kind of shit
happening in Hollywood.
And a lot of these comments
are pissed off at Ben's death.
It kind of keep getting away with it.
If they keep, that's why I was stunned.
And then they made shit films
and now they've made films so shit
that even the people
who love those shit films
are pissed off.
There's a comment right here
that I think we're going to see
a lot of this person says
I've been a huge defender of the series.
I argued for Ray said that much
of her journey was similar to Luke's.
Now I feel like a fool.
I was that I was hoping
this last movie would validate
what I was really did the opposite.
Yeah, that's what we're going to see
a lot of.
I would be curious to ask
what that person was gunning
hoping for, because this mostly seems
in line with what we've seen.
The idea that she's got
all these powers that she can just do.
The fact that she's the most important
word person in the world.
Everyone likes her.
Like this is all stuff we've seen before.
You know, we're going to get
we're going to get people saying
that this is this film is so bad
because of the backlash to TLJ.
Oh, that'll be a take.
Yeah, this is bad because of TLJ.
It's like, no, it's bad
because everyone hated TLJ.
So they got JJ.
And now we have to deal
with this shit film.
Thanks, TLJ haters.
Everyone specifically say
that he couldn't help Luke
as a force ghost.
He says I cannot interfere,
but some people like to try
and interpret that to mean
he chooses not to on a moral level,
which I think is bullshit.
Let's make the galaxies at stake.
That's some stupid stuff.
Well, yeah, and that doesn't
that only addresses him.
What about the rest
of the fucking force ghosts?
The fucking cavalcade on there.
Yeah, remember, there's a whole
Jedi order thousands of Jedi.
This is the thing.
If I had taken over
before episode seven was even made,
I'd be like, so this whole force
ghost thing we cannot let them
be massively influential
because that will ruin everything.
They have to be limited.
Otherwise, our whole universe falls apart.
Yeah, it needs to be like the original
like the originals.
It needs to be ambiguous as to
if they're even there
or if they're just appearing
in the mind of the observer.
Very, very, very amorphous.
Very, yeah, yeah.
But if Yoda can use force lightning,
why doesn't he just come back and fight?
I don't understand any of this.
Oh, exactly.
They're ruining everything.
All of this.
He wasn't force lightning people.
Exactly.
Like, why are you?
Okay, you're there.
You want to blow up the whatever
that was on the last Jedi,
and then we'll go back
and fight the first order.
Help Luke, you know.
Go ahead.
Do your thing.
This is fucking broken.
It's broken.
Why didn't he help the first fight
against Palpatine?
Like, this breaks fucking everything.
They say Star Wars does not make sense.
Again, keep doing it.
Like, again, to reiterate
what I said before about the whole,
like, oh, this film,
if it's gonna repair,
it's got a huge,
hefty hard job ahead of it,
but it didn't bother with repairs.
It just broke everything even more,
at least from what we've seen.
So chat.
Are you happy with what you've seen today?
Like it.
What do you guys think of
what might be episode nine,
Rise of Rey Skywalker?
The sandworm pleaser.
I thought that was a thing that happened.
Oh my god.
This film's so dense.
There's so much in it.
Like, there's a part where
Rey heals a giant vicious sandworm.
Why?
Just out of nowhere.
This comment's good.
So the last film of the Skywalker saga
ends with the last Skywalker
being thrown into a pit
in a Palpatine
taking the Skywalker name.
Jesus.
Oh, that's painful, isn't it?
Did you guys agree that Kylo
is probably the most popular character
in this trilogy?
Yeah, of course he is.
Yeah.
And yeah, with them,
if this is how he dies,
and I think it's,
I think we all think he's gonna die.
Every leak has had him dying,
if I'm not mistaken.
Ryan, am I correct on that?
Yeah, he definitely dies.
That's gonna piss off.
The one thing that you've got this,
at least got a few people on board,
they're gonna piss everybody off
with this film.
I love it.
I can't wait.
Yeah, this is a moment of
join us.
Join us on the team of
this was always bad
because now you will feel that way.
Because, you know, like retroactively
speaking, a lot of people
feel that Force Awakens
is pretty terrible too.
Like, and it's a matter of
just going back and looking at it
much more critically instead of,
and this is the thing,
I feel like it's like
waves of being tricked
is not working anymore.
Like, a lot of people didn't fall
for Force Awakens.
A lot of people did.
Loads of people didn't
fucking fall for TLJ.
A lot of people did.
I don't think anyone's falling
for this film apart from
people like Eric Butz.
Who the fuck's falling for this?
So in the third act,
so do we, in the third act,
do we simultaneously have
the revelation that Leia
hasn't finished her
Force Jedi training
and Luke can't feel her presence
in the Force
and then at the end,
she is a Force ghost.
She finished her training at the end.
Yes.
Well then.
Yeah.
So I think they,
they're trying to say,
it's stupid.
I think what they're trying to say
is he like,
she can't feel her presence yet.
Like, she's still like
continuing her practice.
I don't know what the fuck.
I think he's the one that's coming
to her for one final lesson
before she dies,
which is how to transition
to a ghost.
More transitioning.
But I think that's what
they're going for.
It's stupid,
but I think that's their explanation.
What's the advantage
of being alive?
That's a great question.
I can't believe she just dies though.
Are they going to explain that?
Like, she just,
does she die of unhappiness?
A broken heart.
I just love like,
my people need me.
That seems to be what it is.
It's like,
just like,
it's like just Disney.
The ultimate fuck you
to the old stuff.
Like, no,
Ray is Skywalker now.
Yeah, so this fucking sucks.
Yeah, there's a sense of,
I want to wallow a little bit.
This is a bit like a,
yeah.
Because it hasn't happened yet,
but the thing is like,
this reminds me of
the Season 8 Game of Thrones shit
where you read it all
and you're like,
no,
that's not what it is.
If you tried to write something worse,
I don't know if you could.
It probably ended up being funny
because of how bad it is.
This is not the case.
This is just bad enough to not be funny.
I think I'm going to laugh at least once
in the cinema for this one.
Oh yeah, it's going to be funny.
There are going to be flies
cut in half in this film,
or equivalent.
That's the thing.
We're just talking about
how bad 2019 has been for films
and it's like,
the fucking,
the masterpiece of bad
hasn't even come out yet.
Like, the one that we're really worried
about right at the end of the year,
just to cap it off.
Joker is the one thing
this year could do for us
for mainstream movies.
Did you wait?
Shaft came out this year, right?
Yes.
I liked Shaft.
I'll tell you what,
Ford versus Ferrari
is a fantastic movie.
I know that's not going to appeal
to a ton of people.
I mean, it might
because of Bale and Matt Damon,
but that is a great movie.
There you go.
Three movies
that were decent enough.
El Camino.
That counts too,
because it's not like
everything else that we got.
That's going to be a thing.
2020, guys.
What have we got?
What's the good news?
2020.
Black Widow movie.
Trump.
Trump.
Black Widow movie.
Yeah, we got Black Widow movie.
And then everything else is going
to be like.
Do we have reason to believe
the Black Widow movie will be good?
No, it could be good.
Not at all.
Especially not with what
she's been coming out
and saying lately about
her being hyper-sexualized
and everything.
Yeah, I read that.
She said something like
it was because of dudes.
Like some dudes,
but I was just like,
I thought she was very
on board with it,
but OK, I guess I was wrong.
Concerning what she wears
to red carpet events
and things like that,
I don't think she has a problem
at all with it.
That was that's my take anyway.
So you think she's like been like
coaxed into saying it
by people working on the film
thinking it's good press.
The fucking MCU is so full
of like strong female characters.
It's like not apparently
not one of them
is allowed to be sexualized.
Like you can it's allowed
for characters to
allow it to be sexy.
Like what?
Only for men.
Sexualizing every character.
It's fine.
Well, if you remember.
There was that thing.
I can't remember if it was in a video
or like in an article or something,
but Chris Hemsworth said
that he didn't want to take
his shit off in the third Thor
because he'd done it
and all the other ones as well.
And Taika Waititi was like,
we've got to get bums in seats.
Like it's going to end up
in the trailer.
We got to do it.
It's just like, oh,
that doesn't get talked about.
That's not a thing
people discuss really.
It's just like,
oh, that's fine.
Sexualize the man.
Go for it.
But I mean, that's the thing.
I know where the fuck
of you sexualized men.
That's great.
Sexualized Palpatine.
I was.
Yeah.
Creamy cheese.
Show me that creamy cheese.
Creamy Steve.
We're about we're about to watch
a mainstream Star Wars movie.
This got a lot of Palpatine in it.
It's about to happen, guys.
It's weird to say the least.
All right.
I got a bit of meme collecting
I'm going to do for the next minute.
So you guys got to entertain yourselves.
Okay.
Okay.
I made a straw poll.
We put it in the chat.
Oh, yeah.
I think Rags can do it.
He's a mod.
Get it.
Get him to do it.
All right, everybody.
I am going to put this straw poll
into the chat.
Everyone answer the poll.
I need everybody go to the poll.
Pokemon go to the polls.
She actually said that.
She said that.
That's that's going to be a light
in the in right.
That's the please clap of Hillary Clinton.
All right.
The votes are rolling in.
The votes are rolling in.
Oh, that's button.
Click the button.
Click the button.
Go, go, go.
Click the button.
Oh, it's not winning.
We still we got 250 votes.
We got 300.
Keep going.
Don't stop voting.
350 the 80 percent of people
think it's going to be worse than TLJ
out of a group of people who hate TLJ.
Everyone vote.
We have 500 votes.
Let's get to at least a thousand,
least a thousand.
Come on, everybody.
There are somehow four and a half thousand
people watching this.
So I'm going to need less than if I know.
Right.
I need a less than a fourth of you to vote.
But that means you.
Come on.
No snowflake thinks he's responsible
for the avalanche.
Click that link.
Vote in that poll.
I got to say, JJ, you're doing something special
if you can cause this reaction.
Let's just think about it.
This is a subset of people who fucking
hate TLJ and 80 percent of them think,
oh, yes, it's probably going to be worse.
Yeah, I don't think you will find a more harsh group
when it comes to the opinion of TLJ than this.
A more wretched hive of scum and villainy,
wouldn't you say?
How stupid do you have to be to fuck up this hard?
900 votes.
100 more.
If you haven't voted, then you are not doing your duty.
I can't.
There it is.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, it's coming out in 2020.
50, 950.
Come on.
Let's go.
Let's get that four.
Let's get that fourth digit.
Come on, you bunch of freeloaders.
Vote in the poll.
Pull your weight around here.
What do you think you do is sit on the internet
commenting all day.
No, work, work, work, vote, vote.
And we've got in 2020, we have Disney Plus,
Winter Soldier and Falcon, where we get to see everyone react.
All right.
We have a thousand votes.
Here's the result.
At 1,020 votes, we have 81% saying that Rise of Skywalker
will be the worst film.
Not even close.
That's impressive.
Major statement.
Not even close.
JJ is like...
Do you think this is because it's fresh?
Is that what's happening right now?
The fresh is going to be a part of it.
Ask people a year after this movie's coming,
which one's worse, and I think we'll probably
get a closer split.
But man, this film really rubs it in.
Yeah, man.
If this is anything close to the real plot,
then this is bad.
TLJ is bad.
This film is conspicuously bad in ways that it fucking...
This film is teabagging you with how bad it is.
Suspicious amount of bad.
Too bad, too bad.
Suspicious amount of bad.
I think that you're going to see a lot of people blaming TLJ.
Like we said, you'd be like, well, it could have been good,
but what could JJ do after TLJ?
I think you're going to see that kind of shit.
Oh, yeah.
It's not that bad.
It's as good as it could have been.
Yeah.
They did good with what they did.
All right.
So anyway, I've got some memes.
Got some wonderful, wonderful memes.
They're like an ambrosia in this sea of bad.
So this was referencing how I said when I was pitching
Efap to the boardroom and I would have little wolf and rag puppets
and doing their voices as a sort of pitch before they were brought on.
Okay.
I am I am my doggo.
This is one of Pikachu's drawings for those future telling spiders.
There we go.
Look it out for that Oracle.
Be a spider, please.
Yeah, that was so long ago.
I forgot how stupid that was.
It's a rendition of what's been happening with the Batwoman.
Yeah.
Oh, my goodness.
The head.
For Gem's sake, I'm better.
Gem's sake.
Fringy's out.
That's so good.
It's a terrifying Batwoman, but I love it.
It's a bobblehead.
Somebody cosplayed as B for Halloween, I guess.
That would be pretty much most of it.
That's how you get there.
I hope you spooked some people.
And I hope that I hope that several of the houses you went to were like,
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I know that that character.
They weren't like Patrick Willems house.
Immediately slabs the door like fuck off.
Like, oh, God.
I quite love this one.
It is another rendition of that alien that Fortia drew in the TKO match.
This one, it has blinking eyes.
That's awesome.
Oh, look at him.
Yay.
That alien.
Just wait to be scanned.
It looks like Marge Simpson.
I'm assuming he based it on that.
I don't know.
I'm guessing this is based it on the shirt.
This is that's what I mean.
This is the in relation to us being a leftist podcast, I imagine.
Jesus need to pull into behind that.
This is we've had a lot of work from from this guy says,
realizing my current avatar is a little too elaborate to just throw into my meme.
So here's another rags, big titty rags.
Glad you guys enjoyed my work.
So this business done a whole bunch of awesome stuff.
I have some big old titties.
You've probably got some back pain rags.
Damn, I know.
Right.
And I've walked on all fours.
So those things are just dragging.
Baywind draws me with like eight.
I like down.
I like the he's right.
It log bad, bad on the page.
Shit.
This is another one from that artist.
Let me spider.
What does the future hold?
Well, we've gotten a big blast of it today.
So not looking good.
I like the future is super into drawing the blinds that don't really have anything
to do with what you're doing.
It completes the image.
This was in reference to a part in the beginning of the stream.
What am I missing?
Why am I not getting it?
It's frozen.
Frozen.
Let it go.
Yeah, we were talking about frozen too.
But is like what am I singing you to?
Is it you're being thrown?
Is that you guys in this in some way?
It's very detailed though.
Yeah, no, it's still like a 3D drawing tool thing.
It's pretty cool.
He does a couple of them.
We've got a couple of them to show today, actually.
This was a quick meme for the mishap, but suitable nonetheless.
I like that we've had like two of those now.
And they were both just like grabs of an image where they have the background.
We've got a whole bunch of Jay, Jenny, Jeb, and the Dawn memes coming.
We got a big meme section here.
Okay, you're being warned.
But these are all these are all up to date memes.
For example, debates a gay hates Trump, the call would end me.
Out left or right.
Whatever we need to be that day, that's what we are.
Will be your villain.
It's fine.
Pikachu drew this up.
Everybody needs something to fight.
So your will be alt centrists.
You seem cool.
Have a McMuffin.
I got a couple of McMuffin memes.
I think that it was only natural.
Yeah, I want to make muffin.
I think this is a variation of the one you saw, Rags.
McMuffins at home.
I'm going to say I can say the N word.
Muffin guy there as well.
I think that the C3PO saying the N word is such an amazing.
Speaking of which, Rags, this should probably be your favorite fucking vision of that meme.
It's fucking perfect.
I don't know what it says.
It's just a different language.
I can't possibly share what it says.
It's just gibberish.
Shout it out.
It's tagged as N word past.
Robotic sweating.
Twitter is the big gay.
I mean, format is a whole bit gold.
I told you there's a lot of McMuffin memes.
Expertly crafted meme-age.
This is actually a Deep Simpsons meme.
It's when Homer and Vince all has Pucci and he's like,
everyone should be asking, where's Pucci?
But they've docked out the P and the O.
This, this, I don't know if you guys are prepared for this one.
Oh, no.
Don't stop.
Oh, man.
It's so good.
Oh, that's what makes it good.
That's such a good drawing.
I know.
I'm going to say it had word.
I look like there's a big meme to come out of the stream.
C3P is saying that.
Does he have a bulge?
Robot has a bulge.
Be the pitch meeting again.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
I have proposition for a podcast.
What's that?
Let me tell you a story.
Blah, blah, suppose misogyny, blah, blah.
I'll be the long man.
And that's Efap.
You got yourself a YouTube channel.
Oh, yeah.
Rags doesn't know about this.
The fucking guy.
There's a guy we covered, Rags, who doesn't believe
that people can get YouTube channels without producers and executives.
Yeah, I have seen that.
That can't be real.
I mean, I want to believe.
I want to believe, Rags.
I still don't think.
I still don't think.
I don't believe it.
I want to believe it, man.
I don't believe it.
We used to have read all of these links and you still don't believe
people could be that stupid.
I don't believe people can be that.
No.
C3P knows no depth.
That is the second gate.
There's going to be a lot of gatefinders.
Oh, yeah.
By the way, this is like apparently concept art
or a possible leak thing for the Oracle person.
So we got some spider stuff, maybe.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
That is a spider.
That's a fucking spider.
I mean, we don't know.
We don't know.
Yeah, we don't know.
We don't know.
No, it is spider.
Get excited.
If the Oracle is a spider in this movie, we know J.J.
Walsh is a fap.
We know that as a fact.
Confirmed right there.
Dominating this elf pig.
I don't know what he's doing to it.
This is a strange image.
But the gym smells great.
Rags.
Thanks, babe.
I like the big titty rags.
Freeze hanging out with the chat.
He's like weekend warrior hanging out with J.J.
So good.
Yeah, it's a big family.
Smells great rags.
Oh, the Jeff has an exclamation mark on it.
Excellent.
The Jeff smells great.
Jeff, Jeff, Jeff, Jeff.
Creamy sheath.
Best player on the galaxy.
He got around.
Yeah, boy.
Wanna suck the emperors, dude.
Gotta get them in with me.
Oh, God.
Oh, that three P.O.
Also, Iman gameplay has been making some good rats, apparently.
Excellent stuff.
Army of good rats.
Stormberman.
I'm just glad he knows the difference
because brown table certainly didn't teach us what the difference was.
Yeah.
Chadniks got some of them good rats.
J.J.
The Jeff.
Well, your childhood's back to haunt you, my friend.
So, O.G., it's just passing out the McMuffins.
What does this mean?
I love that that stock image exists.
Yeah.
Mine is that stock image.
You can see it's fucking real chair.
We all see.
Oh, yeah, this is this has been mocked up by somebody to try and make fun of, I guess,
ifap, but they've made a mistake.
Apparently, if I was to make a breakdown of this film, it would be under 24 hours.
That seems pretty ridiculous to me.
What do you guys reckon?
Part one of seven.
Yeah, but, you know, the first part under 24 hours, really.
Might be that bad.
It might be that bad.
Something's going down.
Well, that's what I see.
All right.
Well, either way, I just I just think it's an accuracy.
There should be a colon and another two numbers at the front of all of that.
I agree.
They're shortening some time for sure.
They clearly have no idea what they're talking.
If you're gonna gun for the long man, you could at least make your thing long.
Since my that's just my.
So this is a this is a set of memes now that we've had since
since the legendary thing that happened two weeks ago.
So we got loads to catch up on nothing but exciting artwork and memes.
First being I think some people might not even get this Georgia picks up massive
baller Jared Wilson for twenty twenty one classic.
It's a lot of significant words to eat up in that piece of news.
All right.
Someone spotted this on the road.
It is excellent fruit and produce.
Excellent fruit and produce.
I think we're being ripped off.
Right.
You got some excellent fruit on this podcast.
True.
Well, molar over here claims to be an advocate of gender equality
and then boasts about how Ray is a Mary Sue.
See, this is an anime reference.
I can't be expected to understand them, but.
Sorry, titties.
Oh, I love titties.
This is going to be very relevant.
Because there's a lot of jab memes.
Send your jobs.
Wait a minute.
What's that in the background?
It's like a.
Is that the spider?
Yeah, the little the character above it does look a little spidery.
Now that there's a little character above the spider.
Who do you think it was?
Ray that guy.
Puppet.
It's killing my brain is soup right now, but who's the puppet fella?
Yeah, that does not look like boxes.
Just above the spider.
Racists think all puppets look alike.
I don't think it helps that the image is kind of small, but like.
I don't know.
Shut up.
Okay.
Boop.
Those are pretty cool.
Don made it to be the time person of the year.
I don't know if you guys knew that.
It's pretty.
The man who inspired thousands by being an apex heterosexual.
Oh yeah, straight pride worldwide.
It's just neat.
You know, good job, Don.
I think he deserved it.
I'm glad he got out job.
Yeah, yeah.
Um, so you got Clinton zero Trump zero objectivity is 100% I guess.
Now there's a lot going on in this.
You got, um, I'm not even sure what game this is because that's how out of the loop I am.
That's probably some weed trash.
Since nobody's recognized it here, it must be a weed trash.
It must be waiting for chat to tell me exactly what it is.
Jeremy's the Nintendo guy.
Yeah.
And I don't know what that is.
Gran believe our emblem.
Is that what it is?
Oh, fire emblem.
Oh yeah, probably.
Yeah.
There you go.
I've had a couple of memes sent to me.
I don't know what show this is, but there's like a gas mask character in a suit.
So I get referenced a lot.
Oh, it's that new, uh, it was that independently animated thing.
Is it the hotel or something?
Has been hotel.
Yeah.
That's the one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Apparently I'm a main character and it neat.
Yeah.
Congrats, man.
Ideal female body.
Have a guy.
Let this be.
Yep.
Film Robert.
This guy with a funny mustache.
There was just no flattering picture of this man.
That's the scary thing.
All these pictures are flattering.
And you want, you don't want to see what he really looks like.
His, uh, film Roberto's nose and glasses.
Look like the silly ones you pick up at a store and put it on.
Yeah, he really does.
I just keep looking from his face back to Don Harrison, but, uh,
he looks ridiculous.
Good old Robert.
Oh yeah.
This is a, this is a hyper specific meme, but, um, uh, I was like working my ass off to get
things done in, in the, one of the streams when I was a human for the gaming thing.
And all of chat was constantly like balls of daily balls of daily.
I wasn't for at least one of the rounds.
It's a relevant thing.
This, this picks a little bit funny.
Just like the jab in the corner.
I love it.
Yeah.
Um, all right.
So this one's interesting.
Um, you guys are going to have to sort of sync it up with me.
So it is a Reddit post.
If you go to zero and then, um, prepare to press play, if you can.
Loading for me.
You might have to click this one to bring it into an actual browser.
Oh, there we go.
Ready?
Um, ready.
Everyone on zero.
Yeah.
Three, two, one.
Play.
Jay has been kicked.
Poor Jay.
Blue, blue checkbox attack.
You've got this.
Riles got his house.
He's ripped up.
Um, I got another great Simpsons meme.
Um, I can't remember if I showed this already, but, uh, sometimes the rotation gets some doubles,
but you kick Jay and he's right back.
He's back.
This was great.
So yeah, the gay destroy it.
2019 says no.
Considering what we just read, uh, 2019 does not want to give up the gay.
Did someone say die for the dawn?
Which would absolutely be with within the parameters of effect.
Um, I really liked this one.
So you got, everyone's complaining about if you have 59s length, you've got 50.
Like you're not as sick of legs.
Oh, you know, nothing.
I got my Rhino milk and objectivity.
Nothing.
I take down a whole police force.
Apparently it was probably me on Twitter, I guess.
I don't know.
There was, there was a, the mini gun was required.
Got a seat busters.
I'm afraid of no themes.
I would watch this film.
So rare image of tonal being sworn in.
Uh, we're able to get this thanks to a lot of people.
Okay.
Yes.
This is the face he uses on the majority of his fucking thumbnail.
I don't know what thoughts are within his name.
Very serious about this job.
Got a nice picture celebrating all of the, the cast of Efap.
I suppose you even got big idiots in there.
So many.
Why am I a sexy tiger lady?
Yeah, that should be right.
I'm not against it.
Yeah.
I'm a sexy furry lady.
We can worry his gun in for that dawn cake.
I mean, tonal cake, but oh yeah.
He's one of the wings of a dragon, I guess.
He's one of Joseph Anderson's wings.
I don't know what that means thematically, but I'm not going to stop it.
So TKO is a thing and this was one of the fits that was made and someone decided.
Yeah, no context.
Someone decided to draw up a vision of it, uh, themselves.
That's a little different.
Oh my goodness.
So we got this turned into this.
I wanted that.
That's so much.
Yeah.
I wasn't expecting that.
You thought it stopped there, didn't you?
That's what you thought.
So this is another shit that was made.
Oh, this, this, this man decided that, well, this person decided to cook up another image.
Oh, no.
That's actually terrifying.
When you take a children's drawing,
you go terrified that bottom face.
We need this line from Ray.
I think shut up.
Sheave.
And then he extends his creamy tongue into her brain.
So, uh, we actually showed this one on the meme stream,
which is currently locked in the pits of hell, but it was a pixelated.
Now we've got like the, the full version.
So you got, um, how many e-fabs have gone without memes?
And I said about four.
And so, uh, this is my meme collection at this point.
It's like, geez, are you serious?
Like I assure you, it'll be fine.
I open up and, uh, got us a meme overload.
The first election just saying, jab, jab, jab, jab, jab, jab.
We've got a lawful jab, the full metal jab,
Jeb strikes back, chaotic, Jeb, uh, competitive,
I think is in there.
Black pill, the king of Joker drive a video when we'll get around to it.
I suppose this is me trying to keep track of all of my memes.
Oh yeah.
We had angry Jew.
Can't forget about that.
So this is like a, I guess a pre-existing movie called hot.
She a dog's tail wags a Jeb's tail.
Oh, yeah.
And there we go.
All right, which leaves us, which leaves us with the main portion.
And after these, we will be done with the memes for now.
I can't believe we've gone this far.
I'm going to post this and just tell you guys, don't, don't actually think it's real,
but it's wonderful.
Yeah, it's great.
Yeah.
If you're always welcome on Efab, okay.
We'll talk about weird shit.
I assure you.
It gets better.
Jeb held some other things to say.
I don't think about sex.
Please, please look at the retweets.
Oh my goodness.
This is like fucking more than double the retweets that there is likes.
One billion retweets.
According to the sources, the Oracle sequence has been removed from the film.
No spider oracles.
But they thought about it.
That's what's important.
Yeah.
So many people have just PM'd me this.
I've got like, I was like, oh, what do all these PM's are?
Like several people.
The Oracle scene has been removed from the film.
Sad.
They want to make sure you know, this is a very sad thing that's happened.
But yeah, we've got Jane Anderson on Joker and then Jane Anderson on Fantastic Beasts.
She liked Fantastic Beasts, you know?
Yeah, she comes for it.
She comes for it, yeah.
Weird comment, but you know.
And here come the Jeb memes, starting with a wonderful Kylo Jeb.
Oh, wow.
So simple.
If I told you, Mola was a Jeb-pilled YouTuber.
Ending with a little Jeb.
The glasses.
So many Jeb memes.
I don't see no Thebes.
Like I was just made with bbatic in the bottom left.
I have no idea what that is, but hey, you can make memes with it.
It kind of looks like Bruce Campbell in that photo.
He does, actually.
Wolf loves the Jeb memes.
See, that's where the trouble began.
That smile.
That damn smile.
And then to make it even better.
Everywhere I go, I see his face.
We've already got this far.
Many people work hard to make these things.
That's our podcast.
It's incredible.
Look at these.
Just so many Jeb memes.
She'd be bad and clapping.
Of course, that would upset him.
Oh.
Poor Jeb.
Better not ask people to clap anymore.
Then we've got a Jeb exe.
I had to show that.
It's important.
Oh, that was glorious.
There's a random Major Lee meme in here.
I mean to order these, but sometimes it doesn't always work out.
You get to look at women, and you get to look at women.
Though, suitably, this is right after it.
This is actually a thumbnail from Down With Thrust.
Put Jeb on it.
Oh, that's perfect.
This is for you.
So I think now begins our selection of movies about Jeb.
So we got Jebbing Miss Daisy, Summer 2020.
That is really good.
Jebbous, The Hands of Fate.
Oh, God.
You've got Jenny in the list.
Please clap.
I don't even know if people have seen some of these movies.
What's Eating Jebb at Jebb?
They're all Jebb.
I guess all the main characters, because I mean, of course.
So watch that movie.
I don't know if you guys saw Joker, but yeah,
it's just a screenshot from the trailer, I guess.
I've heard of it.
Oh, you're up for that senior.
Candidates of the election, Curse of the Black Jeb.
This is an awesome movie that came out a while back about pirates.
I like how everyone else has faces cut out.
The Jebshank Redemption.
Jeb can hold you prisoner, Jeb can set you free.
He's got Jeb Bush and Morgan Jebb, but...
Morgan Jebb.
Jebb can set you free.
This is obviously like where that the origin of that pose came from.
Oh, I got no idea.
I have no idea.
I got no clue.
Because it's in this one too.
It is some campaign appearance.
Maybe the one where he's taking a sweatshirt off.
That reminds me of the whole Howard Dean screen.
Escape from planet Jebb.
Oh, it's such a great moment, the Howard Deeds.
This film didn't do too well.
If you guys remember the Jeb Busters 2016 movie.
I was always very impressed by his work playing all of the characters though.
Do you like Black Jebb?
He's like, he's a perpetual shadow.
Leslie Jebbs.
You guys, you must have seen Jeb and I-Man, right?
That was, it was a powerful meme.
Like, there's no fucking denying it.
You got that shock movie, Jeb.
I'm just so badly dead.
Dude, it's in spin.
Spin, no expense.
Mr. and Mrs. Jebb.
Wow, that's a crop.
The massive black porter.
Have you ever seen the Jeb Bush cringe compilation on YouTube?
I've seen a few.
He's a Jebb man into the Jebb.
Oh, everyone remembers G.I. Jebb.
He's so happy to be here.
He looks like a badass.
He looks into it.
That Fallen Order game came out.
Jeb Fallen Order, I think it was, yeah.
Me and Rags lended our voices to that game.
Obviously, once we found out Jebb was involved, we couldn't refuse.
Absolutely.
Just, we did for free, just to work alongside the great one.
I love the simplicity of this one.
I love that, yes.
Like, who wouldn't go to see this?
Then, just like Fallen Order, the new Star Wars movie.
Starring Jebb, of course.
He's a lot of the characters again.
He's such a versatile actor.
Yeah, I know, right?
There's no role he can't play.
Excellent, excellent stuff.
Again, Jiggly.
I don't even know if people fucking knew this movie.
We got Jabbly.
Jabb doesn't play by the rules.
Jabbly.
Jabb-Jeb-Afli-Jebflick?
Jibniford Lopez.
Jibber.
Jiblover Lopez.
I really love this one for the silhouette.
It's so awesome.
Yeah.
Private Jeb.
You need to know where that image came from.
I really need to know where that image came from.
It's like peak memerate.
You guys ever see that, that Jebb Brothers movie?
I always thought Jebb Brothers was really good.
I love Brothers.
Because of course, Bionicle seems to slip into a lot of our memes.
Mask of Jebb the movie.
Hero will be revealed.
I like how all these used to be just the things we were laughing at in tax.
There's so many movie posters of these as if they exist.
Oh my goodness.
You mean as if they exist.
Look at Jebb's hair.
What is that movie?
I don't know it.
It's got Kevin Hart and Will Ferrell in it.
I can't remember the name of it though.
Oh, you know Will Ferrell could play Jabb in a movie sometime.
Get hard, get hard.
Yeah.
That was one of the best Bond movies, Jebb 4.
I think you guys all remember The Good, The Bad, and The Jebb.
Yup, The Good, The Bad, and The Jebb.
I mean, you know, it's a maligned film for sure,
but his performance was fantastic in The Last Jebb.
The Last Jebb.
That beard looks good on him.
I found the origins of that image,
but it was someone posted it to Reddit in the Donald subreddit,
but I don't know where the actual original.
Yeah, the pose in which like he found it necessary.
Yeah, that's what I can't find.
Where did the actual pose come from?
I was fascinated with this.
You think you can simply find a treasure like that?
Oh no, it is older than time.
I was expecting it to be Beauty and the Jebb,
but I'll take it.
So this one, this one's a controversial film
that I really thought was great for his career.
Yes, actually.
50 Shades of Jebb.
Again, that's not what I thought Jebb would be, all right.
Well, you know, a controversial film,
people thought that it was one of his worst roles.
I think it was, he was exploring a part of himself.
Like, can we not, can we accept that
about actors these days, please?
He gave it a shot.
It worked out, I think, you know,
and it led him to getting a role with the Dawn
on that Wild Hogs film or whatever it was called.
Oh, with Medea and Tonals, of course.
Stop sexualizing Jebb.
Wild Hogs was a thing.
You guys ever see the Big Jebowski?
The Big Jebowski?
This movie in my life right there, especially.
Oh, I need that movie in my life.
Again, just one of those really talented actors
who can sort of just absorb the role he's in.
This is probably one of the most impressive roles.
I think he ever did.
Jebb with Mark Wahlberg.
Well, Jeb Wahlberg.
Clap.
Please clap.
He looks into it, you know.
He looks happy.
It leads us to our Jeb pills and Jenny pills.
You know which one's the correct pill to take.
Take the Jeb pill.
Now we've got a fucking assortment of memes.
I guess this one's J specific.
God, there's so many more legs.
This is the a live depiction of us choosing
what videos to cover.
Sometimes it's hard.
Legend of the Guardians, the Owls of Kahool.
Oh, no.
Because Nickelback did the music.
So yeah, Wolf and Rags were unaware of, I guess,
the specifics of Dark Fate.
And I revealed to them that Arnie's name was Karl.
There was just this silence for like a few 10 seconds or so.
It was it was dramatic.
Again, this is like a poster version of what happened on Twitter, I suppose.
Toxic Brood were right behind me.
So it was all right.
That was the editor, by the way.
I don't know his name, but.
The one with the black and white sort of image.
Yeah, the guy from Huffington Post.
Right.
I don't know why Jeb's there.
I think Jeb's on your side.
Yeah, Jeb's probably going to be supportive.
Everyone has a Jeb.
We know this.
He's he's the the mall.
This is a pretty cool screenshot from the game Alien Isolation.
Yeah.
It's Jeb and all of us.
So check out Alien Isolation if you guys want.
Android.
Yeah, it's a spooky Android from Alien Isolation.
Nothing else about this image.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
I just want to point out that I don't care that 99% of these memes have been men.
The fact that you're featuring a wahmen.
I'm so sorry.
You are sexist and you should go out.
Go outside.
Yeah.
Go outside and think about sex.
This is Epic Coast.
The Efap Wars 2 Attack of the Clones.
You got I guess I'm against the the clones.
You got a lot of the the Isle of Man flag floating around.
And lots of things going on here.
Tonaled is in the stars naturally.
Stars.
Living that cosmic life.
I like these memes.
They're fun.
The Efap is a leftist pop culture podcast.
Rags is a far right neo-nazi dog whistling.
Who will win?
They can't decide which extreme I am.
It's like he's on your team.
No, he's on your team.
The Last Jedi was an enjoyable movie.
Yeah, that's fine.
The Last Jedi was an objectively good movie.
Like my fucking Efap axe.
So this is a bat wahmen meme.
You got brutally dispatched multiple people.
Yeah, that's fine.
Steals a dead person's skin and fucking cake goes nuts.
And just level.
Oh man.
Shit rags.
We got that tomorrow.
Oh my goodness.
You're right.
Nothing but fun ahead.
I'm so ready.
And look at this.
I find this meme to be inaccurate.
You got good morning sunshine with Efap mini heading towards Batwoman.
Batwoman is a huge hearty cow.
These buckets Efap is carrying aren't enough.
Like that's not even close to enough.
She's a creamy milky cow.
She's just gallons weekly.
Bursting at the seams.
Gallons weekly.
So this is an interesting story, right?
This meme, you got what white knights think Efap 59 is.
And it's us beating up Jenny.
And it's like what it actually is.
You've got a terminator, angry Jew, I guess.
B rags wolf, Jeb, the Owls of Kahool.
The 8 out of 10 think for J.
So it's great.
The guy who made this,
he posted it to movie circle jig.
It's a subreddit that despises Efap and they upvote it.
They thought it was a meme against us.
Oh no.
Like I think once it got to like 50 points or something,
they started to realize they were like,
oh wait, because what they interpreted it as
was what like Efap white knights think we're doing,
which is like destroying Jenny's opinions.
And what it actually is this embarrassing nonsense.
Like that's how they took it.
It's just so funny to be like, that's one of our memes guys.
Like this is one of us.
I'm so glad that they like our memes.
Yeah, you know, it just proves how good
the Efap audiences are making memes.
Talented.
So you got the scan me, I dare you.
Fucking the fly reference.
Oh God, it raises too many questions.
I think that's talking about when I was in the commentary
saying that if you teleport somebody,
it raises a lot of questions about what you're doing to them.
Um, we got, I guess Tonal's pretty happy about winning
the election again.
I personally, I vote for Tonal's.
That's just me.
That face.
Look at the excitement in his eyes.
That's his exciting face.
It's a really terrifying face.
What's he gonna do?
That happy face.
I feel like Wolf has seen this one on his stream,
but he's sort of toted the blind jab.
That new game, uh, fuck.
I forget what it's called.
Something strannic.
Tone Stranding.
That's a bagidious game.
It's got Tonal on his arm as well.
The Dawn is the baby.
What a bagidious game.
Oh yeah, look at that.
That's a bagidious original.
Good raps.
Um, our stream was getting suspended on the meme stream
and then you got the Dawn trying to protect it
and it came back up temporarily.
Good shit.
And yeah, that's proof by the way, for those who don't know,
the meme stream did exist.
It was a thing.
It will come back one day.
It's just what we're doing right now, but for like five hours.
It'll be like Woodstock where more people claim to have been there
than we're actually there.
I like how applicable that is.
Well, with the word change.
Arrested for Link, right?
Arrested for Link.
Oh no.
Got the assassination of the Dawn by the coward, Carol Danvers.
I don't know if you guys have seen that.
It's a very good film.
Dom was just a humble, noble guy
and Carol did it for the, for the fame.
It's terrible, really.
I'll get her in the background.
Yeah, the good, the bad, the Dawn.
And of course, Don delivering presents to the orphans on Christmas day.
I thought that was quiet.
I don't know how you got this picture, but it's wonderful.
He's a good man.
No, that's absolutely a real thing that happened.
Let me go this, this banner of, I guess, just Efab doing its thing.
I'm surprised Aiden is displayed as not sleeping in this picture,
but I'll take it.
I'm some fucking close.
I'm a sexy tiger girl again.
Why do I get, why do I get boobs now?
I've seen this one before.
I'm a tall person.
Maybe we did see this one before.
You might be right.
Oh, this was on Twitter.
No, there was, no, there was one similar that had like this type sexy tiger lady in it.
There was like the, oh yeah, it's just the, we checked out a couple of these on his Twam stream.
Oh.
So I don't know if you guys checked the local news when that Efab went out,
but you've got Long Man Bad condemned over remarks on Jenny.
I can't quite, this is the original highest death picture I got from them.
Single and loving it.
There is description here, it's kind of hard to read out all of it.
Attempts by Mauler to draw a line under his remarks that the victims of Efab 59 were
taking things out of context have drawn a furious reaction from survivors and campaigners.
The rapper Jeb Bush joined Rell.
Can any of you understand what that says?
Including the verified, I don't know what that word is,
but including the verified people on Twitter who died after being attacked by the toxic brood
in angrily dismissing the Long Man statement
that they should watch the stream for context.
The notorious leader of the toxic brood issued a tweet saying he'd been taken out of context
after daring to stream for 11 hours about Jenny's review of the Joker movie.
Quinton Reviews, who has previously been harassed by the brood, said Mauler was an idiot,
whose remarks revealed how terrible it is to have to deal with Efab.
Mauler's response is too late.
He told the Guardian, we already have, we've already seen that he is evil and will not
bother to watch his video because context doesn't matter.
Also, here's the thing, I fucking hate Trump.
The Justice for Jenny group described the Long Man streams as appalling and Jack Saint
called Mauler's comments crass and insensitive.
Long Critique is not Deep Critique, the brave YouTuber tweeted.
Jeb Bush, who has long been a defender of Jenny after his victory in the 2020 election,
spoke out against Mauler's response to the live stream saying, please clap.
This is about the people who live stream lacking the most basic humanity or empathy.
Yeah, made the front news, but you know, what can you do, man?
They always spin it.
They always take you out of context.
These rags, as they say, for magazines.
That is amazing.
The detail.
Jenny, where are the themes?
There's actually a couple of theme images here.
I quite like this one as well.
You got, are you afraid of the opinion hold?
No, I'm afraid of what's inside it.
The theme of Joker is that you should stop taking your medications.
No, it isn't.
I mean, you know, it's just her opinion rags in the hell.
Yeah, it sure is.
I quite like this version in relation to the themes thing too.
The jabs that Jenny Douglas has had trying to find the themes of Joker.
It's all over.
You know, this is in reference to the good old mainstream copyright strike.
Who would copyright strike this stream?
I mean, it's not like they're dying it.
They probably publicly announced that they destroyed that stream.
But it will return at some point.
Oh, look, a meme about me talking about how you can use badges in order to teleport lots of tech in Terminator.
They could just, you know, if you can.
Just take a badge from there.
What about a beaver?
Whatever works, right? Whatever works.
One of those wonderful big hideous memes.
I respect women as representatives of femininity.
Thus, the more pretty a woman is, the more likely I am to defend her.
So, I'm from Big Idios.
I think that's very applicable.
Late in the year 162 AD, it came to the attention of Big Idios
that a group of proles on the forum had engaged in a conversation for 11 hours about shepherding.
In this conversation, they had negatively reflected on the musings of Jibaya,
a young poetess who claimed that sheep are a type of fungus and the wool can be curdled into cheese.
So, Roth was Big Idios about these attacks on a noble woman of high birth and fetching looks
that he published a public proclamation.
Thus, it spoke, imagine being so mad at women that you talk for 78 hours about what bitches they are.
After posting it on the senate door, he appeared at Jibaya's villa to comfort her,
bringing a vase of wine and some flowers with himself.
Well, I hope it worked out for him.
Defending Jibaya, um, Big Idios is an intellectual.
I'm not going to take it away from him.
Yeah, this is like a classic, I guess.
I'm literally starving to death.
I literally died when I saw your message.
That girl is literally a pig.
And Rags is like, keep using that word.
Don't think you know what it means.
Man's gotta stand for something.
Oh, yes.
All right.
Just gotta, oh, this was like fucking the greatest shit, this meme for,
after all the Twitter crap that happened.
So you got, nobody panics when things go according to plan.
If tomorrow I say that Ifap will cover brown table or that movie Bob has a take that's puretism,
nobody panics because it's all a part of the plan.
But when I say that Jenny Nicholson has a Joker take that shit,
well, then everybody loses their minds.
It's a pretty much one to one.
What happened?
We've made very long streams about a lot of people.
If some reason we did it about here, it was a dodo.
And this also represents that you got.
Yep, that's fine.
That one.
Yep, that's fine.
Oh, look, that's the one that you guys were on before.
I mean, Jeremy, you got a 36.
That's fine.
Oh, I should give her a crown.
This is just one of your standard renditions of wolf and just right beginning to battle.
I can't say I know what the result is, but I could guess.
I guess this is a Linkara gunning for Ifap unbeknownst to him.
I am on Twitter, so it didn't work out.
Yeah, like I'm still quote unquote on Twitter, just basically as an observer.
My god.
This is something someone found in a restaurant.
It's a wolf eating pizza.
So they felt that they needed to tell me about it.
And I think that's fair.
You just picked it up and drawn something.
Ifap related and then claimed the whole thing was yours.
But they didn't do that.
They didn't do that.
They could have.
They could have.
I'm not sure what to think of this.
Help me.
Help me think about it.
Oh, my goodness.
Gosh, it's like a Salvador Dali.
Oh, it's so.
Wow.
That is something else.
Your existence looks painful, mauler.
Total the total tea.
That's rough.
So you have some 3D drawings, which I guess I made with tilt brush.
Then this is me trying to take get my video away from the copyright bots.
But obviously I wasn't successful completely with Ifap 60.
I'm getting there.
And we've got I guess you click this one to see the the parts to it.
But I'm trying to remember all the context for this.
So this is the stream official barriers of blockage.
Angry Jew.
Dangers of a broken jab.
This has got to be episode 59.
Angry Jew is killing.
Is that French French bug?
And then there is a French like a fly or a spider, a French.
Someone is burning a brain box.
There's a lot of there's a lot to deconstruct you.
A lot of themes.
A lot of meaning.
Um, the friend.
Okay,
French or the Frenchman is the rendition of metal trying to explain that his airplane
was actually a swan in the alien game.
So guys, it makes sense.
I quite like this.
You got so massives.
They have opinions.
They have thoughts and they are long.
A level five critic or, you know, an evolved critic does not have opinions.
Does not have thoughts is not long.
I'm representing this to my class, obviously.
Um, this is just the undeniable truth.
And if you notice, uh, on one of the windows is sort of spelling out some form of a message.
Can you make out what that says?
Anybody?
I don't know.
It'd take me a while for me to put it together.
I got to translate it.
You see, here's the thing.
I can read it, but I can't tell you what it says.
Oh, you could write it down.
I'll give you your Epstein pass.
Oh, but that means you're going to delete rags if you do that.
The 3d art rendition of what we've just been reading about.
He's just falling off the thing.
Like goodbye, Kyla.
Jesus drew all that in such a quick amount of time on this.
Well, actually, funnily enough, this was drawn.
This was drawn before this before the stream, but it's just because he read the leaks and knows.
I got is a sign of tripping hazards.
Not even that could warn him.
I have no idea what this was made in, but a guy's made like a version of me, I guess with.
I want to say like, it makes me think of car parts for a weird reason.
It must be the shine.
But it's like a spooky or some badass thing.
A couple of couple of versions or shots that to him.
So it looks like, yeah, the head, the head was created in a game and then the rest was drawn.
It looks like cool.
It's like a nice little amalgamation of the arts.
Yeah, right there.
That's really cool.
I could be a villain boss in a game.
We totally do it.
Your boss fight would be.
I will.
I will throw Kylo Ren down a pit.
Do it.
So this is Biggidius with his book of good rat and Freudian be able to share what our
memes are and they spread into the ether.
And I assume they come right back down into Efap.
That's how the that's what's the that's the how it all works.
Basically, in case anyone didn't know.
This is the the pixel artist, but putting all of the different pixel versions together.
Cool.
That's desk bullshit in the bottom left.
I see.
Yeah.
There's a swastika in the middle.
Well, the problem is that could be referencing a lot of different memes, actually.
The Isle of Man was made into a swastika a couple of times, right?
That is the the drawing one of us did on that that game little stick man.
It's spelled out.
I think it might just be the eyes in the mouth.
Is that the eyes in the mouth of the ER is the same thing.
I was thinking the same thing.
Oh, like it's like it's ER.
See, that's ER mouth in the middle.
And then like the eyes like diagonally in the opposite direction.
Yeah, a lot of people in chat saying CR.
There you go.
Yeah, has become a swastika.
Yeah.
Jay's got his lightsaber.
I have a gun.
I think it's all natural.
Little weekend warriors smiley face.
Al for tear.
Whole bunch of recognizable cast and then the effect logo.
And I like to go the TGP, the great British podcast guys.
All as a three, but there as well.
Yeah.
Pizza and C.J.
All that.
Who's next to Froggold?
Is that robot head?
Yeah, yeah.
That's right.
Kind of looks like weekend warriors giving a thumbs up like critiquing Wolf's ass.
So this is rise and alien, I'm guessing.
And oh, he's a squid Billy.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, sorry.
And he's collected the the head of is that Dale?
I can't remember who that most looks to.
I think it looks like Dale.
Ra really liked Dale, though.
So I don't know what that could possibly be.
But Ra likes Dale.
Yes.
Ra loved Dale.
One hundred and ten percent.
It was one of his favorite guests of all time.
I'm not being sarcastic.
Also, this was someone drew this one.
Jay left Twitter.
I like this one.
It's cute.
Jay hugs.
It's sad.
It's sad and cute.
You're sad.
Yes.
In this picture, it's sad.
So apparently, how I hug is to wrap my arms continuously around someone.
I'm sure they don't find that terrifying in any way.
The long arms just roll from.
I'm sorry.
The most disturbing part about that hug that you're just like wrapping your arm
continuously around is that it's like a rope.
Instead of sitting next to me, you have squatted with one.
Hey, man, I'm a long man.
How else how else could I possibly do it?
Sit next to whoever you're hugging.
Sure Jay, you're happy now.
This is footage of you after you break on Twitter.
So I like this drawing.
You got Efap 55.
The Efap's tismic thesis.
Congratulations.
I think that's the Aiden one.
The thing is, I can't specifically remember exactly what this is
because there's a lot of it.
I was drunk stuff, but I just like the drawing.
A lot of that was drunk stuff.
Bilt, congratulate your belt.
You got Efap on air that
USS Liberty 30 out of 50.
And I'm like time for super chat.
Oh, God.
This one says old Jews.
Oh, okay.
This is from Ross.
Jesus.
Oh, right.
It's giving you the super chats.
He's given these.
This look like you better read all these motherfucker.
There you go.
I suffered raw.
I guess I would use raw against certain enemies.
It makes sense.
Are you saying that raw is the cosmic chicken?
Um, maybe you're addressing the cosmic chicken and you're like,
I summon raw cosmic chicken.
Then that'd be a common.
Well, this person isn't great with punctuation.
That's the only way I can explain it, Jay.
What do you want me to do?
If you're watching, confirm or deny whether or not you.
Please give us your take on the cosmic chicken.
It's a Pikachu's rendition of Jay getting kicked.
Uh, oh, it's cute.
I'm like, oh.
Oh,
she's actually made fat art.
Well, art in relation to uncompetitive.
Good.
Also rags is racist.
The wall should have stayed God.
So you fucking serious.
I like how look at my casual clothing in that one.
I guess I'm drinking a tea.
Very cute.
Very cute.
Uh, I have discussed the usage of both forms of the n-word
with black friends on the gaming podcast.
I am a panel member of, and they were shocked with Jay logboat and said she was a racist.
Okay.
All right.
I'm sure they did.
And then, uh, I think you've seen this already,
Jay, but it's a Pikachu's rendition of you.
It's very cute.
I like it.
Happy, friendly Jay, all restocked after a Twitter vacation.
And of course we've got a Christmas rags too from Pikachu.
Yay.
This isn't something birthday exists in the cold December.
You have to apply our Christmas icons in like just over 10 days.
Oh my goodness.
Oh yeah.
We're almost there.
We're getting close to getting close to Jesus season.
Mm-hmm.
This is the close to Christmas icon Christmasy time.
This is our Efap mirror verse.
You got the long man versus the short man.
The dog versus the cat.
The Jay versus the jabbie.
The jabbie.
And the dog versus the plague.
Creepy ass porg.
The porg is terrible.
Porg's been lobotomized, please.
There's so many cool things I have to save now.
I know it sucks so much to catalog and file.
It's wonderful.
We have to catalog our memes.
I want, I wanted, like, if Efap was like a cartoon,
I desperately want to see this episode where we read the parallel versions of.
Jabbes.
Jabbes in the back.
Look at him.
It should have happened.
Jabbes is a harsh judge.
You just didn't like it.
It takes a joke at what?
No, they were terrible.
BB-8 is saying, help.
Help.
Somehow, like, even though BB-8 is normally a big ball,
somehow in that one, BB-8 looks obese.
Yes.
This is a, I think,
Pikachu's take on Rags meeting Taksin.
I'm you but a pussy.
That is funny.
And yeah, that mostly does it for the memes as far as I am currently aware,
but there's always going to be more.
Oh my goodness.
We got the super chats to go through.
Yeah, unfortunately, I don't think I'm going to be able to stay for those.
I got some fucking work to do.
I was actually going to say there is there is one more meme.
I mean, okay.
Rags.
What do you think?
Holy shit.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my goodness.
Oh man, can you show that on YouTube?
Too late now.
I guess Rags is ready for the monthly thrust.
I never got my monthly thrust from Tonaled.
Please, Tonaled.
Huh?
Are you going to pass on that, Tonaled?
Yeah, who would pass on that, Tonaled?
Come on.
What are you, gay?
Debates are gay.
I never got my monthly thrust.
I gave him $5 a month to get that monthly thrust.
And of course, I signed up, right?
Kind of when he did his little break thingy.
Here, let me check his Patreon and see if there's any news.
I was just going to say, it's so sad that you would have gotten your monthly thrust
if only you'd signed up earlier, probably.
Yeah, that's the thing.
Imagine you buy a hooker and they charge you per thrust.
Just depositing the pennies as you go.
I keep putting Tonaled instead of Tonaled.
I don't even think about it.
Tonaled.
Not downward.
Thrust.
Here it is.
All right.
Posts loading up here.
September 11th was his last update.
Yeah, it's the same one as earlier.
There's been no new ones.
Oh, obviously, we need to send him.
I need to send him this image so that he will bring it to me.
So he'll bring it to me.
Dude, if you tweet at him and say, where's my monthly thrust,
it might push him into doing it.
You'd be like, oh, no, somebody's missing their monthly thrust.
I would tweet this to him if I could, but I don't have a Twitter account.
Do you mind a lurking Twitter account that doesn't have your name on it?
No, I can lurk on my old one.
I can still see everything.
I just can't comment or like or message or retweet.
Oh, can I can I?
Oh, I could message him.
I'm going to message him.
Do it says the dawn said no video made meme.
Sad face.
I'll try and see if I can sort that out for the next defap.
The video ones.
I just need to cycle through them and see which ones have copyright and which don't
and then split them into two different groups.
So I can essentially do a mini for the ones with copyright
and then do a non mini for the ones with not copyright.
It's going to be great.
But yeah, it's just tough to get all of it in line, you know.
But I will say we're we're essentially in a position where the we're probably going
to be jumping into super chance now, which is going.
It's going to be tough for me and rags to finish it in five hours.
OK, that's that's where we're at.
So like what I'm saying is that this is the point where you are absolutely all
welcome to make very adult decisions such as doing things that involve other
things in life, because this has been seven hours and 10 minutes.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, I didn't actually notice too much of that.
So I honestly kind of flew, even though my brain is soup after those leaks.
Oh, yeah, that was tough to read.
So, yeah, second time, second time is not funny, but I'm looking forward to the movie
more and I blame Mahler for that.
Yeah, I'm afraid so.
You're blaming me for having more excitement.
I accept that blame.
Say one wrong reasons.
I am going to I'm going to balance because I've got some stuff to do with.
Well, I was going to say we'll do it.
We'll do them one by one.
So that's bullshit.
You want to do you want to tell people where to find you before you skedaddle?
My channel is kind of in stasis right now, but you know, you'll find me over on
YouTube dot com slash that's bullshit.
I do like GMOD animations right now because I don't know how to do Maya right now.
So but yeah, it's kind of in stasis.
Don't expect anything to be uploaded yet.
Yeah, that's that's that's what I do.
I'm not really known for reviewing or anything like that, but except when he comes on he fed.
Except what I can hear.
Yes, sir.
But yeah, you know, it's been good shit.
Thanks for popping in again.
You're on the meme stream, too, and that's currently dormant.
But you'll shine once again with all of us.
Yeah, that was that was that was a fun time.
And this was a fun time, too.
And I'll see you on the next one.
Absolutely.
Mr. Jeremy from Geeks and Gamers.
Where can people find you?
You can find me on Geeks and Gamers, my YouTube channel, along with my team.
It's not just a Jeremy channel, even though Wolf didn't know that when he called me out.
But you can find me on Geeks and Gamers.
You can find me on Twitter at D-Day Cobra.
D-D-A-Y-C-O-B-R-A.
And that's it.
So Mahler, Rags, Jay, you guys, I appreciate you having me on.
I'm always, always love being here.
And I appreciate you guys having me on.
So no problema.
Thank you for coming.
It's been an interesting seven hours.
McMuffins and all.
So anyway, I'll see you guys later and enjoy your super chat.
Still probably going to make you talk about those leaks even more.
Which is probably the best part of the show.
So all right.
Have a good one.
You're on, dude.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
All right.
And would anyone else like to eject?
Yeah, I think I need to get going, dude.
I got my wife giving me stares because I've been talking for seven hours.
I don't understand what the problem with that is, right?
I don't see what the problem is.
Is your wife long man batting you?
She is.
She's long man batting.
And she's like, you're supposed to play with the kids.
And it's a big thing because I don't understand how I have kids.
I'm supposed to be an incel on this podcast.
Doing it all wrong, dude.
I know.
I got to get gem-pilled.
I don't quite understand.
Gem-pilled.
Well, yeah.
Tell people by channel where you're at.
Yeah, you guys can catch me at my channel, RyanK, RK, I also do stuff on Geek and Gamer,
also on Sports Wars, Jeremy's other channel.
And I talk about Star Wars, talk about comics.
During this, I don't know if you guys noticed, during this we had a huge
nighter cut movement going on on Twitter with Ben Affleck,
Gal Gadot, Jason Momoa all coming out in support of it.
It's pretty crazy.
Number one training in the world.
Are you guys getting any closer to having it released?
We'll see.
I hope so.
We'll see what happens.
But I'll probably make a video on that tonight.
Yeah, it's been awesome coming here, hanging with you guys.
Nice talking to you again, Mahler and Jay and Rags.
Incredible honor meeting you guys and being on here with you.
Oh, hello.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's been good shit, man.
You survived the seven hours.
Not many guests can take that claim, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I did a six and a half hour stream talking about an expanded universe,
Dark Force Rising, just last night on my show in preparation for this.
So my body was ready.
See, and you tell us you're not jab-pilled.
It sounds like you're jab-pilled, I don't know.
Well, maybe I am.
Maybe I took it.
But yeah, but thank you guys so much.
I appreciate it.
And I'll talk to you guys later.
Yeah, man.
See you around.
And then there were three.
Jay, are you abandoning or no?
Here's the thing, right?
Well, I'm pretty tired.
I'm pretty sleepy.
Yeah, I fucking love jab.
Well, I don't know.
That's fine.
What I can do now in my new place is my desk is right next to my couch.
And I'm pretty tired.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna swivel my mic around so it picks up on my couch.
I'm just gonna lie there and I'll probably fall asleep.
But I'll be on until I fall asleep.
And rags, have you got you up to anything or?
Um, I mean, I'm just tired, but I'll hang in there as long as I can.
All right.
So it begins.
And so it begins.
I'm gonna go grab some supplies.
I will I will open with the Streamlabs ones.
And then and then I will tackle the super chat.
Okay, so I missed one from when I was playing a bit of that video game on stream and it said,
molar, I'd like to propose the official evolution of the critic movie Bob dot dot dot.
And it just says movie Bob.
I don't know if they were gonna make a joke like movie blob,
and they didn't end up spelling it that way.
But it just says movie Bob.
So I don't quite get it, but I think I understood the goal with it.
I would like to propose the official critical evolutions of Bob Chipman, movie Bob,
film Robert, cinema Roberto motion picture Robertson.
I guess that they corrected it with this stream for later.
Because it's five hours late.
Wait, it was only five hours late.
Okay, it doesn't matter.
Also, where is wags?
Wags is back.
Yeah, I am back.
My, my alarm just didn't didn't go off.
I guess the volume had been reduced or something like that.
But yeah, you might even say the alarm was being a massive.
It was being a massive pain in my side.
Jeb Nichols has a spider review video.
How did Jeb become so entrenched in the sacred law?
See, I don't know.
You can trust her review of spiders.
That's my that's my controversial take.
If I'm being completely honest, be careful with that.
I can't believe some guy made a 1.2 billion hour response to my video.
Biggidius Boggins.
Well, I mean, again, we're kind of students of Biggidius.
I don't think he'd have a problem with it.
Unless he's referring to someone else.
Some other massive.
You get to look at women.
I don't care, dude.
Looking at women is gay, if that was true.
That was no bullshit response.
Looking at women is gay.
Gay.
Supreme Leader Kylo Ben at Galaxy Burger.
Can I get one order of cosmic chicken nuggets with a Sith McMuffin?
Galaxy Burger.
Rex, since you're a fat whoa, I accidentally clicked a thing.
Rex, since you're a fan of Isaac Asimov's Foundation series,
you might be interested in just Wright's recent video about Asimov,
Game of Thrones and sociological stories.
Oh, I don't think I will.
No, I don't think I will.
I I'm not into Game of Thrones.
Not into just right stuff that I read.
I don't I just don't want to sit through a just right video.
I'd rather just lay in bed and stare at the ceiling and think about it myself.
And I'd be more productive, I feel.
Yeah, I think Theo watched it.
I asked Theo what what he thought.
I can't remember what he said, but just ask ask ask Theo for the take.
And I'm sure that'll you'll get all your answers.
If you have a short synopsis, you could DM me.
I will I will read that.
So I looked through the comment section of the last Efab and I stumbled upon someone
planning to do a video exposing Wolf and his poor take on Guardians of the G'hul movie.
Oh, no, I've got to defend Guardians of.
Yeah, I mean, Wolf will snap back.
Guardians of the G'hul, man, that's that's his bread and butter.
That's his whole thing.
It's Zack Snyder, right?
So there's going to be someone out there.
Zack Snyder cut of Guardians of the G'hul.
Oh, I remember those people who had like a block list of one hundred
one hundred and forty YouTube channels.
One point two billion.
Like block everyone who said shit about Zack Snyder they didn't agree with.
Hey, maybe if you made good films, that would be a problem.
Oh, Jay, you can't say that.
What?
His films are bad.
Like, why does why do people you do get?
You're lucky Ryan just left.
He's like a super pro Zack Snyder.
Oh, he's lucky he left.
We would have had a wall for a second there, guys.
Jay, this is Ryan.
Me and Rags would have just looked on in wondrous wonderment, wondrous wonderment.
All right.
Now is the super chats and I've just scrolled all the way to where they began on the stream.
Man, I don't know if we don't make it to the 12 hour mark,
depending on how many there are, we'll have to do to do a second stream.
I don't know.
I'm just let's let's get going.
Hail Ryan, which is, yeah, fair enough.
If Ryan was here, indeed, it's from Mary Mayhem.
I believe I met Mary.
That's one of the members of the fandom menace.
I'm ready.
Also, Mola, tell metal to give me his tism.
I don't think you can I think you can do that.
You can't just ask a man for his tisms like this.
It's a little bit fucked up.
The first live stream in a while.
Happy to be back.
Walk to your jabs.
Yes, happy to be back.
Yeah, we were gone for two weeks.
That was partly to do with trying to get that 60 stream sorted.
We were unsuccessful in that.
And also because of the the jab jenny stuff.
But good news is in that time I managed to get TFA part three redrafted fully.
And I'm going to be recording it possibly tomorrow.
More days than just one.
Because it's three hours.
And that means that I usually do double takes as well as making mistakes.
So that's going to be like seven hours of recording at least.
Spread across more than one session, I imagine.
Even though we just passed the seven hour mark on this stream.
So, you know, maybe, maybe not, maybe not.
But yes, things that were back and there should be like no more weak gaps for Efap.
And you'll get a bonus episode eventually with Efap 60,
with the actual 60 getting changed into 60 whatever as time goes on.
Anyway, this is an amazing panel.
Hello, everyone.
Love all your channels.
Excited for the stream.
Oh, I hope it was a good one.
That was said seven hours ago.
Also, I want to read that one ahead of time.
Jay, you think Spaceballs is a bad movie.
You have no room to talk about whether it's Zack Snyder film or any other film is bad.
You massive.
I'm trying.
Why do people around me keep liking things that are bad?
Is Zack Snyder make Spaceballs?
I would be surprised.
Oh, my God.
You're going to piss off it.
Jay just said it wouldn't surprise him if Zack Snyder made Spaceballs.
Just because it's bad.
I think the chat.
I think the chat will take care of that.
Yeah.
Chat will probably take care of that.
Weirdly, I didn't expect this.
We got kick J in the chat.
Spaceballs is good.
That is a take to have Jay Spaceballs is bad.
I'm surprised.
This is a movie you're not allowed to not like.
Did you not get the memo?
Probably makes more sense in episode nine.
Spaceballs.
Yeah, definitely.
There is much more of a narrative.
Kick him now.
One person in the chat says hashtag ice.
I'm going to kick J kick J kick J.
J has the big J kick J kick.
J does have the big J.
That's true.
Why would I talk to Jay, dude?
He's got this gay.
Just gay.
Anyway, petition to reman the chat.
I guess it's rename.
Mauler's right wing death squad.
Press one to sign.
Oh, my God.
It would have to be mauler's right wing,
leftist in cell death squad.
You're going to get all of it in there.
We got to come up with like a funny name.
The letters.
Hello, all my Jeb words.
Jeb Nichols logic didn't have very strong.
And just all of the Jeb words at this point.
Everyone's a Jeb.
He's got a Jeb in all of us.
That was that's what I meant to say.
No, he's like Jesus.
Everyone's saying one.
We can't explain all of the law that just happened.
Jay, you really expect it's just repeated all.
Jeez.
One for you have terrible taste in films.
Yeah.
Why would we tell you about something narrative related
when you can't even understand good narratives?
What about that?
Silence.
Jeb Nichols logic didn't have very strong feelings about the movie,
but still shot and edited a 33 minute video to criticize it.
I mean, it's not like you can't do that.
It would just be like have something to say.
Well, she did have something to say.
Just wasn't very great.
My celibacy is not involuntary.
What am I then?
A voluntary celibate celibate also.
A volatile.
No, that's different.
In a voluntary celibate.
Would it be V cell?
You know, somebody says doesn't want to have sex.
Oh, yeah, they're looking for the name, though.
V cell, right?
Celibate isn't celibate isn't isn't celibate.
Someone who does it intentionally, like by definition.
But I want to make it sound cooler with V cell.
V cell is cooler, Jay.
It's just sounds a resource.
A celibate.
I mean, a celibate is a noun as much as.
A celibate celibacy is voluntary.
That's why they put involuntary celibate.
If you have too many butts and you would rather have less butts
and more money, what do you do?
You sell a bit.
You sell a bit.
Is that really?
You celebrate.
Why would you celebrate having too many butts?
Like, right.
Rags, you got his terrible joke, right?
By definition, too many of anything is bad.
And even so, I wouldn't celebrate too many butts.
But how many butts is too many butts?
I don't even think I have the answer to that.
And I love me some butts.
All right.
I'm butts for days over here.
What if they're like kind of smelly, like kind of like, you know,
when butts like go in the way and like they're going away,
they've got like a they're a funny shape.
And they're like the funny shape.
I can't describe the funny shape I'm thinking of.
It's like funny.
It's not Parrish.
Not Parrish.
Parrish is like the ideal shape of butt.
So they're like, like, pumpkin-y.
And they've got those like more than one crack.
Imagine that like the butt is significantly narrow in the hips.
So like the the cheeks don't like the cheeks like
clamp in towards the center of the butt instead of being like nice and rounded.
Deport J. Imolate J.
Because he's a flamer who doesn't understand butts.
Um, all right.
So this is a four-part super chat.
You got OK, Muslet.
I'm heading to Japan and I'm looking at a 17-hour travel day
because I'm an avid efapper.
I've already seen all of the faps.
Because of this, I thought I'd ask the efap hosts, you and Wolf,
as well as a recurring guest, Rags, and Manager J,
what your favorite faps are for the flight.
Now, I thought this would take care of all my free super chats,
but I have an extra one now after this.
So do me a favor and kick J.
Um, all right.
All right.
Yeah.
So well, it lets me it lets me check his profile.
I can mention him, message him, and I can add a note.
I'll add a note to kick him later.
User volume.
Mute.
Invite to server.
Show activity.
Show on activity feed.
Remove friend and block.
No kick, though.
Well, you can just do all those things, I guess.
Yeah, I could do all of those things.
But yeah.
So the question is, what is your favorite fap?
I'm assuming he means which fap episode.
I really liked the episode 50.
Oh yeah, episode 50.
We'll get you the whole way through.
Yeah, you could.
Part one, two, and three.
Rewatch 50?
Yeah, that could work.
I love that.
The drunk one with Eden was pretty good.
That was it.
Maybe we're biased because that was just fun for us.
But I haven't actually listened back to it.
I don't know if we sounded like idiots or not.
Well, I think the more fun it is for the cast, the fun it will be for the listener.
Theoretically, yes.
Yes.
Chat.
What was some of your favorites?
And don't just spam random numbers.
We're not going to do that.
No, no, no, no.
Let me finish.
I'm going to say I'm not going to pay attention to number ones.
You have to be a number and then a dash and then a reason for the episode.
That's how you know the trolls from the voles.
So let's see the results.
But that's that's nonsense.
I hate it.
You know, I'm still with 50.
There's so that's think there's a lot of good ones.
That's if you have one J wasn't in it.
You're actually there's actually a lot of good ones, though.
1559 was one of the better ones, I think.
But, man, the 24 hour, the E5 anniversary one, man, that was.
29 out.
Well, 176 for the glorious future it represents.
That doesn't make sense.
Let's go for 50.
Not so great debate.
That's only going to last him an hour, though.
Aiden one was really good.
Yeah, there you go.
59 rags lost his mind.
True.
13 the major leave video because the video was so stupid.
It was incredible.
So here's a strong choice.
Loud soup with Jay Longbone.
That one was pretty good.
That was a good one for the best quote of all time is,
I think the milking my favorite moment of all of Star Wars.
Oh, that's is that three.
That is a good one for I think that this is four.
Yeah, that was Patrick Williams.
Good old Patrick.
Aiden one was mind melting.
Yep.
Well, I mean, alcohol does stuff.
Well, yeah, there you go.
There's a lot of options.
I think we're going with 50 is our choice.
It's my favorite.
Yeah.
All right.
But there's also loads of other streams.
If you type in, I typed in today to try and find the E5.
I typed in more streams, a playlist of like all of the extended,
extended universe dreams.
It's got like the debates on it.
It's got wolf streams.
It's got it's not got it.
It's not got metal streams, but they should be there.
They're just on a different platform.
Was it just like all streams that have me in it?
No, it's not.
Not all of them even have you in it.
That's why I thought the playlist day was kind of weird.
Uh, it's got it's where it has like, hang on.
Oh yeah, I just saw it.
It's got, um, it has to be the stream.
I did by mistake before the stream with Patricia tax on.
And you got the stream wolf did with a fan or is in there as well.
Oh, it's even got my stream playing full in order.
All right.
It gets updated news.
They're probably watching the stream right now for all I know.
Anyway, well, probably anyone who's, who's into the stream is enough
to archive them all in.
They could be asleep, Jay.
People do sleep.
All right.
Oh, I thought you meant like just watching when you say watching now.
No, I meant right now listening back on the very moment now.
It's very hard to believe that a decade ends in a month and a half.
Amazing how culture can change for the worst in just 10 years.
Mm hmm.
That is kind of actually kind of, kind of crazy.
Yeah, we're entering 2020 folks.
Don't be fun.
I look just like Jenny Nicholson, Bilbo Baggins.
I don't think he said that personally.
That's, that's my, I've read Lord of the Rings.
He never says it.
I've read all of the Harbor.
He never says it.
I've watched all of the movies.
He never says hello.
More.
Any review for the new terminator?
Yes.
Once I get my hands on a blue.
Cray though, looking at it, episode nine.
If episode nine is anything close to what we read in those leaks,
that's going to absorb a lot of my interests for a decent chunk of time.
Hey, Massives.
This Wednesday is my 21st birthday and will be getting my first ever gaming PC.
And I'm beyond excited.
What PC games would you guys suggest?
I play first to test it out.
Praise the dawn.
To test it out.
To a good testing game.
A good testing game.
Let me see if I...
I was going to say, you could probably find that out easily online.
If you're looking for advice on which games that you think you should just play in general,
it's like there's a whole bunch.
It really depends on your interests.
Oh yeah.
One good way to find out how big the improvement is,
is to play a game that you used to play on console,
but on your PC now.
Yes.
And then you could probably see the difference.
That's one of the things that I did.
And it was like, I think Battlefield 3 was that game for me,
where I would play it on console and then I got a PC and played it.
And it was like, fuck.
Damn, this is what they've been talking about.
This is what them people say.
Oh yeah, but everything from like even a lot of old games,
like Left 4 Dead 2 is a great example where it runs insanely well.
And a lot of people still play it and it still holds up pretty well.
Yeah.
So playing that on a modern like PC is wow.
Doom is an excellent example.
The 2016 Doom, as well as 2016's Titanfall 2,
both of those are really excellent games that benefit from being on PC quite a bit.
Go for those.
Give those both a shot or those three, I guess.
Give those a shot.
Yeah, because the reason I'm stuck is just like, what genres do you like?
What pace of game?
There's just, everything is available.
So go have a-
You have just had a massive, dare I say it, world opened up to you.
All sorts of genres.
All sorts of things.
Can't wait for eFap66.
66 may actually line up with the Star Wars one we're planning.
So we got, we're on 60 now.
61 next week, 62.
63, 64, 65, 60.
Oh, so 66 is currently lined up to be on December 5th.
If everything goes the normal sort of way it does.
But if that meme stream comes out, 56 would end up being on the 29th.
And I believe we're planning on doing one soon after the release.
So yeah, it'll be close to being the one that thing you released on.
I'm not sure if we're supposed to do something special for 66.
Because you know, like Order 66, right?
What are we supposed to do?
What's the specialisms?
Kill.
Kill you?
Kick all of the J's.
J's side.
Janus side.
Oh, and then there's episode 69.
Are we supposed to do something with that too?
I don't know.
It's supposed to be too hard to keep track of all this thing.
The spider's foretell salutations ragamuffin.
Oh my god, they predicted muffin.
The spiders, man.
They know what's up.
Hello, all my boomers.
Hello.
Hello.
Viva la ifap.
Yeah, that's just wonderful.
The assassination of Jesse James by the Jeb.
We actually had the assassination of the Dawn by the coward Captain Marvel.
I actually quite like that version, yeah.
Cowardice.
Jeremy has time for ifap, but not the High Council.
I know that meme, and I know he'd appreciate that.
I'm afraid they've gone, both him and Ryan.
They could only stay for seven hours.
It's like, ugh.
Doesn't have that much time for ifap.
No, not that much time at all.
Is ifap kid friendly more than glances nervously at rags?
No, absolutely not.
As if I'm fucking kid friendly.
You are.
You're kid friendly.
Not me, though.
I'm a bad influence on the little.
My god.
On the children's and all those and such.
I'm a bad influence.
I'm a bad man.
Moira, please read this in the cutest voice you can.
I don't do cute voices.
Not a thing.
It says God is dead.
Give it an attempt.
They donate it.
I don't do cute voice.
That's the big gay.
No bullshit told me never to do that.
Said like, no bullshit.
I trust him.
I don't like he said it, though.
I trust him.
You mean Mr. Shit.
Okay, they've written in a way that forces me to use partial cute language.
So we'll see how this goes.
God is dead.
God remains dead.
And we have cued him.
How shall we come forward ourselves?
The myrdwos of all those myrdwos.
That's really weird.
Those are W's.
What was howiest and mightiest of ore that the word has yet owned and
bowed to death undo our knives?
Who will wipe this word off us?
What war two is there for us to queen us wells with?
This is a long super chat.
Yes.
What festive walls of atonement?
What sacred games shall we have to invent?
It's not the greatness of this deed too great for us.
Must we ourselves not become God simply to a pre worthy of it.
There we go.
I did it.
What a nightmare.
Hooray.
You did it.
Mine.
Mine.
No, there was no my name is molar and I'm a dumb massive.
Oh, no.
You said it.
They've got me now.
That means it's true.
They cut half the old Pokemon.
How lazy.
I have heard that being a major criticism.
I know nothing about the new Pokemon, but there's like a big fight
going on with a lot of people about whether or not it's garbage or not.
I hope I've heard this and that.
So yeah, I've heard that in this.
So I don't play Pokemon.
It's not my thing.
I don't care for it.
lol free money from YouTube.
I'm about to leave for a wick flight rag since molar can't receive my custom
Don Funko pop.
Can I send it to you?
Yeah, you can.
Do you have like a PO box or something?
I do actually.
I've only got it recently, so I don't have it.
I don't have it posted anyplace.
If they could email me, I can send it to them.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, email me.
Email me.
Give me email.
What do you guys think of Star Wars Jedi fallen order?
I'm at work right now and I just got a notification.
My first super chat ever.
Love you guys.
Thanks for the super chat.
If five is an average five out of 10 is average.
I'm kind of looking at about a six right now.
Yeah, from what I played, I probably give seven and then I could see myself lowering
to a six after enough time of of playing the same sort of stuff that I got already,
which seems to be what's going to be happening.
It's it's like a I see it's like Dark Souls, but even I don't really.
I don't know.
It's like it wants to emulate it, but it doesn't do it really all that well.
I have issues with.
Kind of.
Yeah, even in terms of like the combat movement for being a respawn game,
movement feels clunky and poorly animated.
I don't feel like a lot of the now I've only played it for like four hours.
So keep this in mind so far.
It's all based on what I've played so far, but I don't really like the combat.
It's it doesn't have this fluidity to its animations and the motions that are made,
which is really important, especially in melee combat for like reading attacks
and things like that, knowing when your block is done and whatnot.
It doesn't feel like it's responsive enough for a lot of things.
It's fine.
It's serviceable.
It hasn't frustrated me yet.
Oh, no, it has.
Yeah, the octobago, the first one you fucking find that two hits you.
But yeah, I creature.
Yeah, it's the frog thing with the tongue.
And it's like the first mini boss you find in it.
I don't know.
It's the soul.
It's the whole.
No, you have to die to it 710 times and then you learn the pattern
and then you could kill it without getting damaged.
That sounds a lot like Dark Souls to me.
Yeah, like that's so much fun.
I love that.
That's fun, but it's OK.
It definitely feels like a Star Wars game.
I defeated that on the stream, by the way, by having it jump off the map and kill itself.
Jump off the map.
How did you get it to go off the map?
I didn't do it on purpose.
No, like because you fight him in like a cave.
Oh, well, I didn't fight about a cave.
Oh, no, no, I'm talking about like the actual mini boss.
You go into a cave and he's inside the cave.
Oh, OK.
I was thinking of a different frog, I think, with a tongue.
Big frog with a big tongue.
Yeah, there's the thing.
There's multiples.
You fight.
You can fight like three and the first one you find for some reason.
The first one you find is like the mini boss and it fucks you in the asshole
and the other two are just sort of like normal ones.
Well, the normal one gave me a funny.
I would show you it.
Well, the assumption would be the first one you find whichever one you find first fucks you up.
Yeah, the boss version, basically.
Yeah, I was going to say it sounds like rags describing something else because.
Yeah, it's got a health bar on the top of the screen and it'll hit you.
It'll two hit you, but also it has an attack that like if it hits you with the first one,
you're stunned and you have to get hit by this.
I was playing on the hardest difficulty.
So this thing to hit me anyway, this grunt creature.
Yeah, the the hardest difficulty has been punishing.
I'm curious if I'm going to pursue it or not, as in like it depends on annoying.
It maintains itself to be, but.
Anyway, it's just it's it's it's okay.
It's fine.
It's fine.
More use the power of rather weird.
Yeah, I threw that thing off a roof.
Fuck Mary kill top three porn stars according to Prawn hub.
I I don't know.
Is that something they can sort by like.
I've got the my I've got like Virgin Media.
So I've got the safe firm.
I've got the parental settings on the Internet so I can.
You saw him fix that.
Let's go to because I can visit porn hub like.
Wait, I thought you said you couldn't.
No, I can visit.
The only thing I've encountered that it stops me from visiting so far is ifap.me.
That's lame.
All right, so the parental controls are fine with porn.
But ifap.me, that's not OK.
So let's go to porn stars sort by most popular weekly.
Can I send you a screenshot of the list or.
Well, you can probably send me it.
I don't know if I can put on stream though.
Yeah, you can't you can't put this on stream.
It almost got a dick on it.
Oh, my goodness.
Do I need to do a private message to both of you or can you just delete it after?
Oh, wait, you know what?
Just throw it to us, but we'll get rid of D.
D. Cobra does bullshit and Ryan.
They don't have to see this.
Oh, OK.
They'll be fine.
It's just that one of them has a yummy looking dick on it.
So we so we have to do this with OK.
Top three.
I'm going to put Riley Reed up top.
She looks fairly young.
Good complexion.
Oh, wait.
Sorry.
No.
So so out of the so one, two, three out of those three, you got to fuck Mary.
Kill.
That was the question.
Sorry.
Oh, oh, fuck Mary.
Well, kill doesn't matter.
I don't fucking know these people.
Well, I don't know anything about marriage.
I have one.
We have to base this entirely on looks, I guess.
OK.
This is entirely OK.
Fuck Riley.
I read Mary.
I will.
I would marry Lana Rhodes.
And I would kill.
Because I can't see your face.
Wait, why do you say me a Lulu?
Leo Lulu.
No, no, you don't get you have to choose.
Mia Khalifa is your third person to choose Mia Khalifa is the top three.
Yeah.
OK.
I got you.
Yeah, I guess I got to kill me.
Yeah, I think I agree with your takes there, actually.
Yeah, I'm going to marry me.
Really seems she seems pretty chill.
Does she?
What makes you arrive at that conclusion?
I've seen her interviewed.
You have.
I have.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
More than that, I can't remember.
I don't care about like the distinction between the other two.
They were pretty much the same to me.
By the way.
Despo, she was like, you removed me, so I can't contribute.
I was just like, imagine I hadn't removed the three of them and Rags just posted that.
I mean, it's all fine except for the second one, because there's a cock on it.
No, I know.
It's just that imagine they were like,
she's got it grabbed.
She's got she's covering up the nipple with her hand.
By the way, ring on her finger.
Yeah, Jay, what the fuck?
It's probably not a wedding ring because it's the middle finger.
But look at those nails.
Uh, no.
And hey, with Riley, you get the free.
Yeah, I like exactly comes with comes with a free dude with a yummy looking dick on it.
And right, you've got the look at the hand with the with the nails on it,
you know, like the pointy white nails.
I like my lady's hands are natural.
Like I like the rest of them.
You see, I like any of that pointy nail stuff going on.
Jay, defend your woman.
I'm not a fan of the pointy nails.
Damn.
There you go.
I don't think she normally has that.
I guess you would know I don't know.
Riley looks like she's trying to put that dick behind her ear like it's a pencil.
Do you not?
No, she's just snuggling up to it because she likes it.
Yeah, she does look very happy.
I know.
I like a happy.
I like a happy girl.
I don't like someone who's dour and down in the dumps and they're sad or they're crying
and make their eyeliner streak down their cheek.
No.
Rags.
Especially when I'm looking for.
There you go.
That's the timestamp.
Just play that for a few seconds and you can see me defeat this hard creature.
Oh, I should probably put.
Oh yeah, that's not the right one.
Yeah.
Well, it's just just watch what happens.
All right, let me watch.
Chat.
We're very happy to see this this thing ate me several times.
Defeated with skill.
Hooray.
Did you get it?
Oh, did you get any XP for it?
Oh, well, I killed it later anyway, so it didn't really matter.
This thing's only like a grunt, so.
Well, in this thing too, I barely got any XP for killing it.
Well, yeah, I mean, you know, it's I think it's one of those creatures where once you
figure it out, it's probably quite easy to deal with most of the time,
especially when you level up your shit.
But yeah, anyway.
If a 59 common section, the Virgin White Knights of Jeb versus the Chad Legion of Ra.
Well, and blood was spilled.
A Serbian Jeb.
Oh, no.
Do you know about a Serbian film ranks?
A Serbian film.
Called what?
That's what it's called.
Oh, no, I don't know.
No, do not find out anything about that film.
It is horrifying.
They made it just to be horrifying.
Okay, I won't look at it then.
My name is Mola and I'm a boomer.
Why?
Why are you doing this to me?
People making me say such horrible things.
Did you see Eric Bucks reaction to the Rise of Skywalker trailer?
Um, I did.
And you know what?
It was when I was uploading episode five of Batwoman reaction stuff.
Um, because Mel was over here and I was downstairs like just looking at the video ready to put it out.
And then someone sent me that and I was like, Oh, I guess I'll watch this.
And then and then he he turned up and I was like, Oh, let's let's watch this shit.
And I don't know how Eric butts is going to react to all that.
Is there anything they could do that would Eric butts would be upset with?
You reckon that this them announcing there's not going to be any more Star Wars movies.
You know, that poor man to announce there will be no more Star Wars announcements.
That would destroy his soul.
Like, oh, I couldn't I wouldn't want to do that to him.
That poor man.
They say it's going to have slightly less fan wank than we thought it was.
Then he'd be upset.
Oh, we're cutting fan wank.
You look specifically about like, I need my fan wank.
People wanted to kick me before.
Guess what kind of pizza I'm eating?
Pepperoni.
No, that would be that would be an answer that would that answer would not get me kicked.
Hawaiian.
Yes.
See, what you didn't grasp, Jay was that you'd get kicked no matter what your answer was.
No, but like, to anyone who wasn't going to kick me before,
I'm now eating the pizza that it's a meme to say is bad.
It's not a meme, Jay.
It isn't.
I'm sorry.
How even even if you think it is a bad pizza, which you're wrong.
But even if you think that it clearly is a meme to say that it's bad, like.
Only those who like the pizza think it's a meme.
Probably just going to tell me my opinion's fucking wrong.
You're eating pizza wrong.
How does that make you feel?
I'm going to put that on a shirt.
All right.
Do you do you ever eat pizza with mayonnaise?
No.
Who's she?
Who's she?
Who's mayonnaise?
Yeah.
I think I saw her on the list in the top 15 or so.
She was like top 11, I guess.
She was just out of the list.
Mayonnaise.
Mayonnaise.
Uh, weird man bad.
Jibidius brush bushins.
Jibidius.
Would you rather drink a loved one's pee or watch Shrek 3 on DVD?
Shrek 3 on DVD.
I would take Shrek 3 on DVD.
Shrek 3 on DVD.
I would just try and fall asleep.
Okay.
I would love a tasty beverage while I watch Shrek 3.
Can I drink Shrek's pee?
Oh, I imagine it's like some foul acid.
No man, I'm thinking it could super power you.
Shrek is, Shrek is, Shrek is, love Shrek is life.
I don't know, man.
Think about the stuff he eats.
Yeah.
He converts it in a Shrek body into power.
Power.
There's something left over.
Yes.
That ogre ain't shitless, you know.
Thoughts on new Sonic trailer.
Looks mad.
I like the Sonic a lot.
The movie's probably like, hmm, it's gonna be mad.
It's probably gonna be a pretty average movie.
Sonic looks great.
No, I'm sorry.
The scenes that were in like the first trailer.
You cut out.
What do you think?
Funny comedy.
The scenes that were in the first trailer.
The scenes that were in the first trailer are still probably going to be in the movie.
You kind of cut out again.
Can you just say that one more time?
The scenes that were in the first trailer are still.
All right, we got, we got up to still.
The scenes that were in the first trailer are still probably going to be in the movie.
Painfully unfunny comedy with like.
We got up to gonna be.
He said probably going to be in them and then I cut out for me.
In the movie.
Why am I cutting out so much?
What's the problem?
Why are you what?
Why am I cutting out so much?
Why are you cutting?
Oh, he's probably saying, why are you cutting out so much?
Oh, I'm, I don't know.
People are now advocating to ban Jay.
I see.
It makes sense.
Ban is the step up.
The film still looks like it'll be bad.
It's neat that they responded to criticism.
A lot of people assume it was all planned.
I don't really think so myself, but maybe.
The Sonic looks good.
The rest of the movie looks.
Yes.
Greetings, Massives.
You actually made me watch all of the expanse and now I'm more excited for season four than
your reaction to episode nine.
Oh my goodness.
All right.
Enjoying media is a good thing at this point because running out of things to do that with.
Um, also Chris.
Jen is best girl.
Also, also high jabs.
Do they mean Chris Chan?
Chris.
Jen.
Chris.
Jabs.
Jenny.
Crystal son.
I'm not sure.
Christmas.
Christmas.
Christmas.
Thoughts on that new game about space wizards intended for children.
Ah, we covered it.
I feel like we might get off.
Yeah, we did cover it.
Yeah.
Um, a metal streams cannon.
No, they are spinoffs.
And they're going to get decanonized eventually as far as I'm aware.
I've spoken to the producers and the managers.
They're not happy with metal streams being canon unless specifically identified as canon.
That's what I've been told.
My hands are tied.
Um, but you still get to see some of your favorite characters engaging in some bonus
content.
A lot of fans consider it disrespectful.
I don't know.
It's really up to you guys.
Once we sell the Efap rights, then they will be officially decanonized.
It's all like, uh, alternate timeline stuff.
Those streams.
Yeah.
It's the multiverse, uh, Efap world's 1169.
So it's like, you know, universe is like, uh, what if space balls was funny?
The Efap.
Why would you reference our own world instead of one that's like not ours?
That's what it comes down to.
We're just from different universes.
It's the Mandela effect version of the world where space balls is just terrible.
Well, and everybody's just saying it's good for no reason.
You've got one.
You've got one.
No, you've got a version of the world where it's good and I've got a version of the world
where it's terrible.
Well, uh, welcome to my world, alien Jay.
How do you, how do you feel?
Pretty good.
All right.
Make a pizza.
Um, hi, Jay.
Hello.
Kick rags.
What is this bizarro world that we've started?
I mean, it's suitable, right?
Considering we just, yeah.
Um, I lost the start.
What did I lose?
So the beginning portion was a complete recap of the Twitter thing.
And it was filled with funnies.
Um, that's, that's what was missed at the beginning.
When do we counter attack against Jeb's legion of white knights?
Donis vault.
I think the counter attack was not only engaged, but highly successful.
Efap has not even suffered a scratch.
So that's neat.
Jay, did you, your hand ever avenge his home, family, and people?
Um, yeah.
Well, there's your answer.
That was a whole episode of Rick and Morty about it.
Oh, I remember that.
Yeah.
Disney buys Efap and makes you drink green milk.
I wouldn't sign up for that.
You know what would happen?
Disney buy a cannon.
Then they're like, they offer me money to come back.
And I'm like, no, no, no.
And then they're like, but rags and wolf have signed on.
And all the fans are asking you to, I'd be like, oh, okay.
And then I do.
And then they fucking kill you both.
And like the first 10 minutes of the episode, I'm like, the fuck.
The guy who hacked a status channel is making smug community, the community posts.
Jeremy, could you help the status guy get his channel back since you got hacked?
Uh, I didn't know that was happening.
That's why would anyone hack that guy?
Because they're fucking dickholes.
Was he, was he pissed?
Is he pissed anyone off?
Doesn't he just make awesome stuff?
Like, why would you want to hack him?
Guys, um, set up, if you, if you care about an account,
set up like several steps of authentication.
Oh, two step authentication is so fucking good.
I just put on everything pretty much at this point.
It's funny, by the way, because I got a laptop recently and I signed in on it.
Fucking like my phone and my PC were freaking out.
They were like, so excited.
What the fuck it's okay.
It's okay.
It's okay.
It's me.
It's me.
It's me.
And they're like, okay.
But it's good that it does that.
It should do that.
And we got to be careful with everything these days,
because I'm pretty sure there are hackers out there that nothing will stop them.
Like, unfortunately, but, um, you know, you just do everything
and kind of get it back as soon as possible.
That's the thing.
They're probably not after like a hacker.
That's that good.
Probably isn't after like, you know what?
I want to hack some, uh, film critics, YouTube accounts.
But I mean, I guess this is the thing though.
If someone hacked like me or Rags, I could be like, oh yeah,
Efap makes fucking shit tons of really angry enemies.
It doesn't surprise me.
Even though that's a retarded reality that we live in.
But the, the status guy, I don't know.
I don't know who he pissed off.
Like, uh, I don't know.
I think it's, who knows?
It's just people just like probably just some guy who's just being a dick.
He's like, I don't know.
I guess they just think it's funny for whatever reason.
I've been made aware that your eating is, is pissing off raw to a significant degree.
Jay nom, nom, nom, nom, nom, nom.
No fucking star.
He said, stop crunching you fairy.
Jay, how do you respond?
Um, yeah, I was right about your fairy.
Damn.
That's just what a fairy would say.
Uh, Wolf Ayn Rand is not some crazy libertarian.
She's just a rational author who's sadly slandered and misunderstood.
Sorry, but it's a pet peeve of mine.
There you go.
I don't know anything.
I have not read Ayn Rand's books.
I have read, uh, four of them.
I've read The Fountainhead, Atlas Trugged, We the Living, and, um,
ah, what's the other one?
Not Anthem.
Into Stella Marines?
No, it was Anthem.
It wasn't.
Yeah.
Into Stella Marines.
Okay.
Well, um, were they good?
Anthem Fountainhead, We the Living, and Atlas Trugged.
I'm going to go ahead and assume you liked her work in order to have read four of them's.
Rags the end cap furry.
I'm not an end cap.
I promise you that.
So what I would rather be an end cap than a communist though.
What did you think of the books?
I liked them all.
I liked them all.
They're, they're very much, they're very thick with her, um,
personal ideology, objectivism.
But as long as you kind of can go along with that idea, I think the base premise is pretty nifty.
I think some of the characters are fairly sympathetic.
Read them a long time ago, but they're not bad books.
I was, uh, I, I enjoyed reading them.
She's like a hyper individualist in a lot of ways.
And I can, I'm sympathetic with that to a much larger degree than I am with an authoritarian.
So I was able to just go along with it.
Some say Joaquin Phoenix Joker is the best.
Some say Heath Ledger's Joker is the best to settle the argument.
We can say all, we can all say Epstein didn't kill himself.
Yeah.
As we can.
Yeah, that's true.
There's no way that guy killed himself.
That movie Bob tweet about Mjolnir and Thor.
Yikes.
This person's super chatted just because they wanted to share that.
That was a bad, horrible tweet.
It's so true.
Did you get to that bit?
Right.
That was like right at the beginning, wasn't it?
Oh, if you, if you scroll up in our group chat all the way up to the top,
you should see a tweet, a tweet from Bob of house movie or movie of house Bob, I guess.
All right.
I gotta do a lot of scrolling.
Yes.
I decided to try it as well.
It's after the Pepe's after the drawings.
Yeah, there it is.
Here we go.
Call them not cinema if you like, but consider how the MCU has forever claimed the only
or no stammer away from the pause.
That's the reaction.
That's right there.
That's the reaction.
They have claimed Thor's.
So they've taken away.
You think white nationalists give a fuck about that?
No, man.
That was like the whole thing.
Remember when Hitler talked about Mjolnir?
Um, if you think that, uh, that's certainly, that's quite the silver lining, uh, Bob.
Well, at least this will make it somewhat potentially maybe marginally more difficult
for white nationalists and neo-Nazis to use Mjolnir as a symbol.
That is, uh, okay.
But if you look at his, his tweets responses, like nobody fucking agrees with them.
What are you doing?
This is such a weird take.
My favorite thing about that as well is like in the tweet, he's like, yeah,
it's going to be so great to see the hammer lifted by a Jewish woman next to the black
queer Valkyrie, except Valkyrie is not queer in the movies because they want to sell that
shit in China and Russia.
Yeah.
You know, that's, that's how they do it.
You know, loads of, loads of black characters, loads of Asian characters and no gay people.
Oh yeah.
Wait, I was going to say, we want that China money.
Wasn't there like, they were kind of alluding to the idea that
Valkyrie and Thor had a thing in Ragnarok.
Yeah.
That did seem to be, they did have chemistry.
They had very much.
Well, there was like that moment, I think when she gets into a new armor and then they
like give each other a bit of a look and it's like, Oh, something might be happening here.
I don't know.
Um, but I don't remember any details that she was queer.
I don't remember that being a thing.
Yeah.
You know how a lot of the times interviews.
Oh, okay.
So a lot of the times we anti SJW types have a criticism of the other, of the SJW types and say
that they use diversity as a replacement for quality.
This tweet helps to encapsulate that idea.
I mean, it's movie, Bob.
Most of his team don't actually like him.
Every time this happens though, I think back to Patrick Willems saying that he's like the only
person he approves of is like YouTube critics that are traditional.
I'm like, Patrick, what were you thinking?
Oh no.
What if he knew about eugenics shit when he said that?
They must've, must've met each other or talked somewhere to the point where.
Get their story straight.
I don't know.
How did that happen?
Why movie Bob of all people like just right.
I can totally understand.
Like that makes total sense to me, but
who people, I don't know.
I assume they've got to at least third base.
I think that's conservative, but all right.
I'm looking at a seventh base at least.
Maybe even 10th.
Um, have a free super chat.
Why?
Thank you.
Mueller, I'm blaming you for JJ getting the idea of bringing back Palpatine.
Ifap episode three, you said Palpatine coming back for some reason.
Did I?
Well, the thing is, when you brainstorm with a bunch of people on what the worst ideas are,
JJ just gets light bulbs.
He's like, Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
The force ghosts battling with Ray to defeat Palpatine.
That's a real thing that could happen.
That's where we're at folks.
Force ghosts.
Fighting with Ray to beat Palpatine.
Making a piss saber and taking Luke's name out of.
It's not a piss saber.
It's a God saber.
Okay.
Yellow and gold is cool.
Cool.
Gold is cool.
When I played Jedi Knight, Jedi Academy, you bit your ass.
I went with a yellow saber.
That shit's tight.
You went with the lightsaber.
Yours is blue because you're a normie.
Oh, that's an angry Jay.
Yeah.
My shit is that nice saber with yellow saber.
Tight as Riley Reed's fucking little pussy.
Mola also predicted Kylo falling to his death.
I don't believe all of this.
We predicted all of it.
People did not like the Kylo falling to his death thingy.
This probably too late for them to fix that, isn't it?
JJ's probably like, nobody liked it?
Oh no, fuck.
I thought it was perfect.
Why?
They can change it so he sacrifices himself to save Ray or something.
Someone else said you did.
I'm going to need a timestamp because...
Is it going to be some passing comment like,
lol if Kylo just falls off a cliff or something like that?
It's obviously going to be that.
That's exactly the kind of joke you would make though.
Wow, Jay.
You think you know me so well.
See that silence?
Proof that he doesn't.
Finn will be inconsistent.
This movie, they'll go to some first order installation.
He actually hasn't previously been responsive for mopping.
Finn, do you know anything about this base?
He's like, I did mop this one.
They'll give him like a look.
Like, what the fuck?
That's how they confirm.
How did he still alive?
It's like, oh yeah, Finn's like, oh yeah,
I used to mop up his throne room.
He was there.
He's fine.
It was during a metal stream.
He said Kylo falls to his death.
That's why I made the tilt brush image without reading the leaks.
Oh yeah, but that's because I heard that.
Someone had told me that he falls over and dies.
But I didn't take it seriously.
That's why I was joking about it or whatever.
And I think I even say in metal stream,
it's like, oh yeah, the leaks are including stuff like,
Kylo falling off a cliff and dying or something like that.
Like, I didn't know that that was the actual leak.
This is like Game of Thrones all over again, seriously.
Predicted space horses.
Smudboy apparently predicted space horses.
I've heard that.
Anyway, if it takes one hour to cook a batch of cookies
and Cookie Monster has 15 ovens working 24 hours a day,
every day for five years, how does it take Cookie Monster
to make six million batches of cookies?
I know what that's referencing.
Well, it's like a baking thing, like with the cookies.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
So how many is a batch of cookies?
I guess it's some sort of a, I'm not sure.
Could that be millions?
I don't know.
Well, I think they use the, I think they ship cookies and trains.
So how many cookies can fit on a train, right?
Like a train cart.
Just one cart?
Yeah, just like one.
Like a box cart.
That's a fucking shit ton of cookies, dude.
How many cookies can you cram into a box car?
How big are these cookies?
I don't know.
But we're gonna assume that you're not taking into account
like their safety or their personal health or personal space.
If the cookies could even understand such a concept.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Are these cookies, they're being cooked, yeah?
I don't know.
To a degree that they're still just fine.
They're not destroyed.
I assume, yeah, they're fine.
Yeah, they're not like broken up or anything like that.
They haven't, you haven't been like slapped in an oven or anything.
Well, since I'm not a chef, how could I possibly answer this?
They haven't been baked, you know?
Because I don't know.
I don't know.
I just have to go by what other people say.
Oh, yeah, that's actually would be my position on this question.
I would ask a chef.
Yeah.
I would ask whoever was there when such a thing would have happened.
Yeah.
Because I don't fucking know.
What I want to know is why people want this many cookies.
That's my question.
Doesn't mean you counted them.
Huh?
What?
Having been there at the time doesn't mean you counted the cookie.
Right.
But I would probably.
I'm saying I wasn't there.
So as a result, I haven't I wasn't there.
And I haven't done a lot of research myself.
I generally whenever the whenever the baking question pops up to be Q,
I just kind of defer to what experts say.
And, you know, I I trust that they are they're fairly accurate, you know.
Yeah, I don't feel like they'd want to mislead me about, you know, cookies being baked.
Yeah, I'll be fucked up.
Oi, Morley, when are you going to make an unbridled praise for your favorite MCU movie, Iron Man 3?
I will make a video for that one day.
It'll happen.
It's on a list.
The list is getting larger and larger as time goes on,
because I can't seem to catch up with my own list, but it's gonna happen.
Also, Hi, Rex.
Hey, says you best boy.
Oh, you.
Oh, that's nice of you to say that.
Thank you.
If Twam is Efap Cannon, does that make my name Steve?
Twam?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Since Rags isn't even aware of it.
I don't know if you can call it Cannon yet.
Twam.
Tell me.
Tell me of this Twam.
It's it's it's Jay.
It's our manager's show.
There have now been three episodes of Twam in which
me and people's look at things were sent on Twitter.
It's an acronym for Twitter was a massive and he asks Twitter questions.
Yeah, Twitter was a massive.
Yeah, it is.
It is.
It is.
But yeah, yeah, we'll have to ask the manager if he thinks it's Cannon.
Yeah.
Someone's telling me someone is telling me that the cookie experts are
cookies themselves.
If that's the case, then that that brings that's that's interesting.
The food.
Hmm.
I don't know if that would skew data or if they would be
like so sympathetic to cookies that I've never met a sentient cookie.
Surely some of the experts are cookies and some of them aren't.
No, I guess I imagine, but I mean, surely not all of them can be.
I don't really like think about whether or not someone's a cookie.
Like I don't I don't really think to ask, but, you know, maybe if they're
a cookie first or if they're if there was, you know,
if they're like a white chocolate cookie first or if they're just a cookie first.
That's true.
You have to ask about it.
I like that we don't.
That's not even an inside joke because if I've seen it now, like, oh, man.
Thank you.
Don't bullshit.
Yeah, like intimately familiar with cookie.
He he gave us a winner in that set.
Thank you.
Sitch as well for organizing that stream.
Thank you very much.
Thank you so much.
That was amazing.
That was magical.
Feel complete.
Things George Lucas defends.
Midichlorians, Jar Jar, CGI, dancing frogs.
Sand is bad.
Han shooting second.
Things he does not defend.
The original cut.
All right, then.
I mean, this is all right.
There's a bazillion cuts at this point as far as I'm aware.
Closer Look made a video criticizing Far From Home.
That doesn't surprise me.
A lot of people didn't like Far From Home from what I gathered.
He thought it was fine.
I thought it was pretty good.
I thought it was good.
I'd go as far as saying that.
Yeah, there was one as good as homecoming, though.
What was, um, no, no, I agree with that.
Oh, wow.
His his video is called How to Make Spider-Man Boring.
What?
Really?
Yeah.
All the complaints.
No.
Yeah.
Oh, and he's got 88 percent closer.
Look, don't make us cover you again.
I don't want to do this to you.
You were a nice man.
Maybe we can have him on and we can cover his video with him.
Do you think he'd do that?
Um, is that affording him a special privilege you wouldn't allow to anyone else?
Well, no, I mean, just because that would be fun.
Oh, um, yeah, I'm fine with it.
Sure.
It could be the first time we ever do that and see what happens.
Yeah, maybe.
You can earn special privileges by being a knight.
I wonder if he'll like go back on everything he said or feel.
Well, yeah, so I'll check that video out.
Um, the fact that his own fan base seem to have some issue with it is interesting.
Do you know I kind of if I told you guys, I don't remember he said this on stream,
but I spoke to him a day after he came on the stream because he was
still a little bit upset with some of the stuff that was said.
I wanted to like smooth it out.
I've also said to him that I'm happy to do.
He said he wouldn't want to do a fat, but he wouldn't mind doing a
fat movies at some point just to sort of rip into a funny movie and stuff.
And I was like, yeah, that's cool.
All right.
But he said the biggest difference between him and and sort of us on
EFAP was that he looks at movies like a writer and we look at it like the audience.
That was my reaction.
So like that's not true at all, though.
No, it's not true at all.
Because the funny thing is that you're dealing with Fringy, Wolf and myself,
who are all very invested in the idea of actually writing
stories at certain points in some way, shape or form.
Some of us, I say this, Wolf is currently writing and editing his own
fucking book as far as I'm aware.
He's released a book at one point and you'll find that it's backwards.
Well, I don't like the just the dichotomy.
I don't looking at something as a writer versus an audience.
And he was in an audience, not like recognize shitty writing.
I can't remember how he explained it, but it was
bad characters, conveniences and contrivances.
Like the audience can notice all of these things.
What do you think we are when we watch the movie?
Surely he's the audience, too.
No, he is.
He has ascended as a critic.
Oh, my.
Sorry, I've been getting distracted reading some of these responses.
I'll give you this is the first line of one of them.
I believe you missed the mark on this one by a lot.
Damn it, man.
We have so many takes to cover.
I actually the next D fab was already planned in my head and the one after that.
So depending on what he says, you get for you and your plans.
No, plans are stupid.
This one can just go on like the the the the back log.
Where the back log is horrifying.
Like, oh, no, it's it's this enormous blob.
We were supposed to get through a whole bunch of them on 50.
We got through seven.
Hey, seven's a lot.
Seven is a lot for seven.
Seven actually is quite a bit.
Can you believe I will say this, you know, once once Star Wars hits, man, it's going to be.
It's over.
We can't cover anything else.
It's going to be so many takes to cover.
All right.
Well, yeah, like I said, I'll check it out.
I'll see what he says.
And then maybe I'll talk to him and see if he's up for watching it live with us.
That'll be I want to bring Fringy on for that one.
Fringy loves far from home.
We'll have we'll have and then mean rags.
I guess we'll try and be the mediators.
You know, we'll be the nice ones.
We'll be like, hey, look, you're wrong.
That'll be our mediation.
If he makes common comic based arguments, get Birdman on.
I seriously doubt he will.
I have a feeling he's what a weird title, man.
How to make Spider-Man boring.
Like of all the problems you can have with far from home.
Boring.
That's not what I would have thought.
I certainly wasn't bored at all.
I watched it three times.
Besides, isn't it boring?
Isn't that a complaint an audience would make?
It is.
Um, no, writer would say it's boring.
It's boring and criticism that a writer would make.
Something the audience would say.
I have a theory.
How strange how how the tables have turned.
I have a theory.
There is evidence to suggest Aristotle didn't really exist historically.
I propose he was actually big idiots the whole time
and kept it a secret so that the Pafes sophists wouldn't know his true identity.
You're only fucking realizing this now.
Yeah, we can't.
We can't just we can't talk about this.
Okay, sure.
What a crazy idea you just had.
Interesting stuff.
Yes, you couldn't possibly happen.
Interesting idea.
You get boned by a real fairy.
What creature is it?
A real fairy?
Am I having the choice here?
Does the real fairy mean like an animal?
Or does it mean like one of those creepy things from cats?
It means.
Oh, no.
Well, I mean, I they're underneath the umbrella of furry.
So you could choose it if you wanted to.
Oh, no.
Like what like they're basically use our furry daddy.
Can I can I not just have a person like?
No, this.
No, the question is that you got to get boned by your daddy.
Who is it?
Then I generally will defer to Cass from Legends of Zelda.
He is a daddy.
However, there are many correct answers.
Many correct hands.
But that's that's up to you to to decide upon.
So you guys discuss it amongst yourselves and I'm curious to see what you'll say.
My mind is blanking on like any furry character.
You know, you say that, but I don't believe you.
Well, give me some fur.
Give you furry character.
Yeah.
All right.
Richard the Lionhearted from from.
Okay.
The only one I can think of is Brian Griffin.
Oh, my good.
What Brian Griffin?
Brian Griffin, I think.
I don't know.
Does he qualify?
I guess he's under the umbrella somewhere.
Yeah, he's probably related to that in some way.
So this is Sonic in chat.
Brian, why did you choose?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure I didn't choose Brian.
I'm saying your brain chose Brian.
Oh, yeah, I can just pick rags.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah.
All right.
So, Jay, what do you got?
Brian.
Uh, fuck it.
I'll go with Brian.
No, you can't know Brian's a dog.
I guess I'm a dog too, but.
I think it is a valid choice.
He's also the only one I can think of.
That no, that's not true.
What about Robin Hood from the Disney movie?
I'm not saying that.
You have.
Oh my God.
Damn it, Jay.
What the fuck?
Right?
This is Jay.
You're talking to me.
Yeah.
But Jesus Christ.
Okay.
How about Zootopia?
Have you seen that?
I have seen that.
There you go.
All of the characters.
There you go.
Fucking Zootopia.
What is it?
Isn't like the chief of police, like a big ass water buffalo.
Pick him.
I bet he's got a big old dick.
Sure.
I'll go for that.
Why not?
Bongo Bongo.
Chief big big guy.
All right.
Chief Bongo.
He's played like Idris Elver, is he not?
Oh, fuck.
Yeah.
Oh, and there's like a line.
Oh, the stripper tigers are in there too.
Man, you got a fucking gold mine with Zootopia.
I don't remember the stripper tigers, but they sound pretty.
Yeah, they're pretty great.
Anyway, remember, as I said, there are many right answers.
Remember when Morla didn't believe the leaks
in the first five minutes of Dark Fate?
Oh, such innocence.
When you when Nudronic told me that John Connor just gets killed,
I was like, no, like, no, no, that can't be.
That's not a thing.
They wouldn't do that.
No company would be that stupid.
And then you're like, oh, stupid, disrespectful, embarrassing,
nightmarish.
There's a lot of different ways to really go into it.
And they did them all.
Oh, we all proclaim the right to dawn diligent duties,
delivering dismay and disquiet to the dawn's detractors.
A dazzling delight.
The dazzling, delightful day to you, darlings.
Also, high rags.
Hey, what's up?
Excellent alliteration.
If you could insert the dawn, Jeb Nichols.
I'd love to.
Wait, is it consonants or alliteration?
Alliteration.
Isn't it?
Consonants is, let's see, recurrence of similar sounds,
especially consonants in close proximity.
Yeah, I think alliteration.
Let me double check.
Preacher's alliteration.
It's alliteration.
Alliteration.
Same letter or sound at the beginning of adjacent.
So they actually both fit.
Interesting.
We learn today.
We do.
I wonder if chat gonna fight over that as well.
They can fight.
It's both.
It's actually both.
We all, oh wait, yeah.
If you could insert the dawn, Jeb Nichols and Luke Skywalker in place.
Insert the dawn.
In place of any characters in TLJ, which would you choose?
I like how it says if you could replace any of the characters
with Luke Skywalker in TLJ, like he's not even in it.
All right, so say the question one more time.
The dawn is one of your selections.
Jeb Nichols and Luke Skywalker.
You can place them in place of anyone in TLJ.
So I'm going to go ahead and knock out Jake Skywalker and put Luke there instead.
Yeah, I'm assuming the question means we replace the characters,
like the characters themselves.
This means this changes the story entirely.
If that character gets replaced with Luke Skywalker,
then basically the whole film changes, doesn't it?
Yes, it does.
And then we will have, where should we put the dawn?
I think the dawn should replace Admiral Holda.
I don't know, man.
I might replace Rey with the dawn.
The dawn finds Luke and they work together.
I don't know, man.
I want to see it.
Yeah, two forces of actual good.
And then Jeb Nichols will be replacing Snoke, I guess.
Yeah.
And like, I wouldn't care about it.
Ready to irrationally defend their leader.
I will admit that getting rid of Holda for the dawn would be a great choice.
But man, do I want to see the dawn and Luke hanging out.
Dawn and Luke.
Oh, geez.
They would not be stopped.
You know what?
They would find out that the whole ship was destroyed with Holda on it.
And then Luke will be like, I could sense that they were all traitors.
It's okay.
It's just us two now.
And we're going to dominate.
We're going to fuck everything up.
It's going to be great.
There'll be a trilogy just for those two.
Okay.
Would love to see you and POTN cover Buffy takes.
Someone actually directed me to what they said was the only
negative Buffy take they could find.
And it's like this guy who has like a webcam and he's ranting for about 20 minutes about
how Buffy sucks.
And it looks like it was made like 10 years ago.
Um, so not a lot we can have.
We have to work within both the sections of Buffy praise and, and ripping apart.
But yeah, it would be fun.
What about people praising the stuff that's supposed to be really bad?
Oh, like in Buffy.
Yeah.
I mean, it would be kind of awkward to sort of separate it out.
And then the problem with Buffy is very hyper specific.
A lot of people in this chat won't have any idea what we're talking about.
I know rags obviously won't and you wouldn't and Wolf.
Well, Wolf would, but you know, it could work.
Maybe, maybe not.
It's one of those.
It would be in the, um, the backlog selection of maybes, you know,
Hello says that Buffy is just a knockoff of Planet of the Apes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, it is.
Why would anyone say this?
I had no idea.
Buffy fucking tore everything out of Planet of the Apes.
It's true.
I had no idea.
Hello.
Malb Shlubi.
Hi, rag.
Hey.
Hello.
Jay is also here.
And that's all I've got to say about that.
So I really like the Mandalorian, but it needs to pick up in terms of story
or to lose my dressing blessing.
It's a bit Blandalorian.
So yeah, we, we meant to talk about that.
I completely forgot.
Um, I guess seen the first two episodes.
The first one I liked quite a bit.
The second one was still not bad.
It bit slower, more of a, kind of more of a filler episode.
I would call it slower.
And they were, they were, what was, it was like two tisms, maybe three.
I can't remember.
One of the tisms was, um, the knife that kills the enormous monster.
It was like, what?
It's a little, I ain't buying that.
They should have done.
And then there's, uh, I guess this one's up for debate, I guess,
but like the whole, he gets electrocuted off the sand crawler.
And they didn't do anything about that.
The Jowers, I was like, oh, surely they would like be like, oh, we beat him.
Now let's go scabbing because he's wearing like real expensive armor, right?
Or at least stuff that's worth quite a bit.
And if you've got him knocked out, I don't know.
Yeah.
Maybe they were just too afraid or they didn't know if he was.
Yeah, there's, there's wiggle room there.
I'll agree to that.
And then, um, I get like there was, I was thinking about the, you know,
so, you know, they strip his ship and then they give him all his stuff back.
I guess they really did include every last thing he needed to be able to be space ready.
Like, yeah, I guess to me, it seems a little lucky with them.
Yeah.
Like there's this reason they had the guy with them and it took them like days to do it.
Um, but yeah, the second episode was weaker than the first for me,
but I'm still up for it.
I'm absolutely still interested.
Yeah.
Also, I guess they didn't really care about like the six Jawas.
He just disintegrated.
Oh, that was the other thing.
Yeah.
I didn't really believe that they would give up all of that technology for an egg,
which was essentially like a nice drink for them.
That maybe it has some sort of weird cultural significance.
I don't know.
Yeah, weird.
You'd think they'd be able to get it themselves.
They had those like the army of blastery, electrocute things.
I guess those just don't work on the creature, you know.
No, I guess not.
All right.
That's, yeah, we'll see.
I think I'll be better able to judge it once we get more episodes.
Definitely a weaker episode, but we shall see.
Um, my friend is going to be mildly shook when he sees I'm watching this live.
Mildly shook?
Mildly shook.
Why?
Why is that?
Are you going to shake him?
Maybe his friend is a long man bad.
I don't know.
I hope your friend's not a long man bad.
Maybe the friends with Jodie Nichols.
Oh no.
Why though?
Like what, what, what actual value is there in her commentary?
How could you say that?
Just because she's a girl.
Like as like with her as a person, like they know that.
Oh, maybe.
Oh yeah, maybe.
Terrifying.
Terrifying thought.
That's what I just said.
Yep.
Terrifying.
Terrifying.
Terrifying thought.
Do any of the Aussie guests live in New South Wales?
If so, did one of their ancestors steal from one of yours therefore landing them
in prison colony in New South Wales?
If so, you have claims to all of their belongings.
Well, I guess I'll look into it.
Off on that man.
Yeah, definitely.
Free stuff.
Um, Jay, they could do so good social commentary.
If lol, no, they're Hollywood holes.
They can't do any social commentary.
They're biologically incapable of ever, ever gleaning insights of any way.
Oh Jay, did we tell?
You were there for this, right?
I think it was me, Jay, Fringy, and Wolf.
We were talking about Ra's interest in referring to certain kinds of people's holes,
that being wannons.
So we were sort of talking about it.
And Wolf was like, what a weird thing to call somebody.
Like, what does that even mean?
And we were like, wait, do you not follow?
And he was like, what do you mean?
It was like, do you know why he's saying that?
He was just like, well, like a hole in a person.
Like, why?
He thought it was, you thought it was trying to get past YouTube's filter,
and he was trying to say hoe.
Yeah, he thought it was supposed to be hoes.
I'm sure he would have.
And yeah, uh, when we, when we like, explained it to him, he was like, oh.
Wolf is innocent.
Um, oh, mauler, people like barber too fat to feel anything.
Too fat to feel.
It's all been blacked out.
Also read and watch Jojo.
It's miles better than the current sludge that is Western comics.
I'm sure that's the case.
Too fat to feel like when you get to a certain fatness,
your nerves just all die off because they're stuck.
Sounds like an album.
Too fat to feel an album by Bob Chipman.
Being fat is political.
I don't think Bob Chipman thinks he's fat.
He thinks he's just superior via mass.
I think he thinks it's all mass.
Superior via mass.
I wanted to tweet that out.
Superior via mass.
I want him to be sent a t-shirt that just says superior.
Uh, thank you Massives for another great stream.
Found a video.
He wears a shirt that says this is what the Uber mensch looks like.
Uh, found a video about everything critics got wrong about TLJ by Count Jackular.
But when they say critics, they mean people bashing it.
It's pure criticism.
Why do I imagine that it's going to say stuff like,
Luke's character was totally in line with what we've known the whole time or something like that.
He called him a boy.
He called him a boy.
He called him a boy.
Oh, this video does exist.
That's why Kylo Ren killed the Emperor.
Wait, what?
Oh, it's like a vlog.
A vlog?
Yeah, it's like an hour-long vlog called Everything Critics Got Wrong About Stars.
I don't want to watch that.
I don't want to, but maybe not.
Anyway, episode 9 leak.
Rey travels into the MCU to kill Infinity War Thanos,
take his gauntlet, dust everything pre-Disney across all media, and become God.
Oh.
Tell you what, she would in some respect from a lot of people.
It's my vote.
Oh yeah, that was the thing, by the way.
I guess the time travel thing from Red Let Media is out.
That whole theory with the how...
I guess the idea was that Rey was going to go back in time and Kylo, I think.
If the leaks are to be believed, I don't think they do in time travel.
Which, by the way, fuck it.
Throw it in.
Just throw it in.
Do it.
Have Rey time travel back to before there was anything.
She floats in space, and she is the universe.
She gets pregnant at the end of the film, and travels back in...
And then births the universe.
Yeah, that would be a really great ending to seal the Skywalker saga.
She becomes...
It's a very graphic birth scene.
Did you catch that, by the way?
She comes to the cosmic chicken.
This film is going for the whole Skywalker saga,
because up to this point, it was always about blood.
But ultimately, if you feel you're a Skywalker, you are.
Yeah.
All right, then.
Sure, that's how it works.
Don't be confident in who you are.
Just fucking be someone else.
If you want the message to be, it doesn't matter what your lineage is.
Then why would she adopt Luke Skywalker as a name?
Adopting the name.
Exactly.
Yeah, wouldn't it make more sense for them to be like,
Hey, what's your name?
But she just goes, Ray.
Ray.
Just Ray.
Ray.
Just Ray.
Honestly, I actually think I would have less criticisms for that ending.
What would you mean, honestly?
Yeah, obviously, look better.
Okay, are you criticizing a woman?
They set up the...
Fuck.
No, no, I wouldn't do that.
They set up... That's a great place to say about it.
It's like the...
Oh, no, they don't even need to set up really, do they?
They just need to say that at the end.
Well, if you have it at one point in the film that they ask her and she goes,
Ray, she thinks for a while, then she doesn't quite answer.
And then at the end, she also doesn't answer, but it's a confident no answer.
After she knows she's a Palpatine.
Would that be seen as her like...
Because we're thinking of this in contract.
No, it should be earlier on.
She calls herself Ray Skywalker and she's proud of that.
And she's like, look at me taking this cool name.
And then the end of the movie, the payoffs are going...
That's not what you should do.
Yeah, she doesn't need to be related to someone cool to be a good character.
And that's her journey.
If she just says, oh, I'm just Ray, then it's not really...
Well, if you remember by the way,
Hello Greedo has a video called Ray's Parents and Nobodies, and I like that.
So many people have that.
Imagine how unhappy Major Lee...
No, there's no kissing scene for Kylo and Ray.
They don't even touch hands.
Yeah, I don't even think they touch hands.
Oh my God.
He does watch her shit.
Yeah, that's true.
Major Lee's gonna be like, oh my God, fourth base.
Fourth base.
Home run.
Oh, it's gonna be so funny to see the cottage once episode nine comes out, man.
The video essay cottage.
Oh, I can't wait.
Major Lee is gonna be disappointed because he was really like...
He was like the only person who predicted that
Ray's parents were gonna be Nobodies, and now she's a Palpatine.
Oh, you know, no one important.
Oh, you're right.
He was so proud of his prediction.
It's not even right.
His prediction is bullshit.
He's gonna fucking disown this movie.
He's gonna hate it.
Imagine how upset Jenny's fanboys will be when they discover
she's already in a committed relationship with her porgs.
Yeah, I mean, you know, you're not gonna be able to beat the porgs for comfort, right?
You can just jump right in as Jeb showed us.
What up, my Massives?
First time catching your live.
Hope you guys...
Fantastic piece.
First time catching your live.
Hope you guys have been keeping those Jeb's watered.
Absolutely.
Always water your Jeb.
Would you rather sacrifice your significant other to save your mother
or sacrifice your father to save your significant other?
Sincerely, Mr. Massive.
Sacrifice.
I don't have a significant other, so...
Yeah, the problem with this, I need a lot more variables.
Like, a lot more.
Because it's a theoretical significant other.
Are they like...
Not a fun decision to make, for sure.
If we're talking the best possible love of your life,
married kids, the whole nine yards...
And you have to choose between them or your mother or father, then...
No, whether or not you would kill your significant other to save your
mother or kill your father to save your significant other.
Was that it?
Yeah.
Could you do it one more time?
So, sacrifice the significant other to save a mother.
Sacrifice your father to save the significant other.
Sort of a strange selection, but this is the thing.
Like, you're dealing with...
Someone's got to die in these scenarios.
Yeah, I would sacrifice my father to save my significant other.
I would want to talk it through with the person.
I think my dad is probably the kind of person that he takes it for, like, someone younger.
Yeah, I feel like my dad would be like, just take me.
Yeah, I feel like my dad would too.
I do think that, yeah.
A bit of a bit of a...
Yeah.
Like, it would be, you know, harrowing.
It would be harrowing, but like, I certainly...
I don't know.
There's a part of me that kind of understands that if my mother had to live with that kind of guilt.
Right, that's...
Like, you're receiving...
We're receiving that they know...
Right, if they didn't...
If this is a choice, like, gun to your head, sudden choice, no one's allowed to talk to
anyone about anything, it would probably...
I mean, this is the thing.
Someone has to die in this scenario.
I would still take comfort in the knowledge that if my dad did know what was going on,
he would probably...
He would die.
He would be dying, essentially, for his grandkids to save his grandkids' mom.
Yeah, it would be awful to have to explain this to everybody,
but that would be the grim reality, I suppose.
Um, imagine caring what those kind of people think.
What those kinds of people think.
I'm assuming they're referring to all the Twitter stuff.
I imagine.
12 hours of bashing that e-girl.
I feel like I want to make a meme of that scene from Goodfellas,
where Billy Bats has a meeting with Henry and the guys.
I mean, you theoretically could, right?
You theoretically could.
Beware the pagan supremacy.
Uga-booga, lulz.
Hello, Molo.
It was great seeing you at Winter's End this Friday.
Thanks for the great content and memes.
Also, hi, Jay.
Hi, Rags.
Hello!
Oh, my, Jay.
Get that voice fixed up there.
You should add Star Wars Only to the list of guests.
Star Wars Only?
I'm guessing that's a channel.
What does he talk about?
I have no idea.
Probably Only, whatever that is.
What is Only?
Is that, like, an anime?
I think it's an album.
Like, one song, actually.
Oh!
The song Only on the album Only.
Yeah, he just talks about that.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
I mean, yeah, it's a good song.
You can talk about it forever, really.
There's a lot of ways to approach it, you know.
We're still talking about, you know, we're still talking about another brick in the wall.
Fallen Order so bad that Wolf quit Star Wars on Twitter.
He quit Star Wars?
I mean, I don't know if it's that bad.
I mean, like I said, I'm pretty comfortable calling it a six out of ten.
But then again, it's only based on four hours.
So maybe it gets better.
Maybe it gets worse.
I don't know.
I don't know.
This is a tweet from Wolf from one hour ago.
So me and my friend were talking about the movie where Gary Oldman plays a midget
and how amazing that is.
But instead, they should have cast a true midget.
And I thought about casting a baby midget,
which made me think of midget fetuses, which would be a good bad name.
Also, I'm high.
Baby fetuses?
Baby fetuses?
Midget fetuses.
Midget fetuses.
Midget fetuses.
Well, I guess I'll...
Interesting.
Um, yeah, I'm just looking for any tweet to do with...
Oh, he's fun to have on Twitter.
And I'm sad that he's going to get knocked off it soon
because of his his tendency to meme hard.
Well, is he insisting on continuing to say this?
I don't know.
I don't I don't think he likes to be censored.
So you'll probably say it until he's knocked off.
And you'll be like,
That's the he's going to be censored.
That's whatever he does, he's going to be censored on Twitter.
So what is this?
There's a tweet that says 1945.
That is the length of time before there is a female speaking role
in the first episode of The Mandalorian.
Oh, we see.
That was I couldn't always put my finger on why I like so much,
but that just might be it.
That's probably it.
Yeah, that's probably it.
Those donned families.
And let the men have their Star Wars.
When two cities in Japan were nuked.
What?
1945.
Oh, OK.
That's the that's the correlation.
It happened because a woman spoke.
Oh, it happened because a woman ate a fucking apple
if the stories are true, so.
Oh, yeah, that's true.
Actually, well, it's crazy.
How like I was thinking of Pandora's box.
It's like crazy how those two stories, you know, you know, Pandora Pandora's box.
Oh, I didn't know you guys were close.
Close enough to access your box, apparently.
Jesus.
I'm not going to acknowledge this.
I mean, you know, go on.
What about tell us about Pandora's box?
Yeah, go on then.
What's it's just funny that they're similar stories.
It's like, oh, everything was cool.
Then this woman came along, unleashed all evil into the world.
Well, that wasn't done maliciously.
Besides, it had to be somebody is going to Jay.
It's going to be somebody.
Yeah.
Might as well be a woman.
It makes the most sense.
Would you agree, Jay?
I'm just saying it.
I mean, from an objective perspective, it is it is more realistic.
Can you justify that?
Yeah, women are fucking retarded.
Okay.
I've got it on good authority that women are gay.
I've got a good authority that holes are gay.
No, women are great.
Dude, I hate debates.
Debates are gay.
A little.
Fallen order so bad that Wolf quit.
Oh, yeah, I read that movie.
Blob is the ice cream falling off the cone into sand on the beach of the internet.
All right.
Subhuman blob of jetty jelly and he smells.
How do you know he smells?
Well, to be fair, I look at I can smell movie Bob when I see a picture of him.
So you can't teach you can't smell pictures.
A picture of movie.
Not with that attitude.
Listen, he looks like he I could just by looking at him, I can catch the whiff coming off.
You can smell that a mile away.
I know.
I like it.
Listen, I'm a doggo.
I got a nose for these things.
I wouldn't get within 30 feet of that human.
Well, like, how can you be sure he's a human?
Regardless that he's the uber man near me, near him.
You might want to eugenics.
Might want to eugenics you.
Do you not think that you're up up to snuff to live in Bob's perfect world?
I'm not sure what Bob's perfect standards would be.
And I have no idea.
Probably not.
Because I'm not I'm not much like Bob.
And I think he thinks he's pretty great.
I he thinks he's the fucking tits, man.
He thinks he's got a few of those.
He's saying he thinks the sun.
How many?
God say, I mean, it's difficult to count them, Jay.
Have you seen the creature?
I've got more tits than he does.
True.
But he has many.
But mine are nice.
Um, Jeb Nichols blocked me because I made fun of her because of her tweets.
So sad right now.
Oh, well, well, if you make fun of people, then they might block you.
You'll be fine.
You don't want to be antagonistic.
You just want to be, you know, you know, I mean, like, yeah, you know,
some shackles for your opinion.
Also kick Jay.
Yeah, Jay.
What the fuck, Jay?
You can't even be part of film Robert's perfect world.
How can you be our friend if you're not good enough?
See, me and Rags passed his test.
What was his test?
Well, if you couldn't pass it, then we can't reveal it to you.
Otherwise, you'll have the answers.
Yeah, it's like the it's like Harry Potter and the quiz weird fucking test game.
He sort of cut you off.
There it is.
Suddenly, you said Harry Potter and the quiz.
That was the film sounds intense.
This is like Harry Potter and the the magic goblet cup is the quiz goblet of fire.
And you can't tell people if you find out like the next game challenge,
you can't tell other people.
Yes, you can.
No, you can't.
Harry Potter is the only book in the no Harry Potter is the only book in the world.
Therefore, we have to abide by its rules.
No, that's not the rules of Harry Potter.
Like Harry specifically goes and tells Cedric what the next challenge.
I know he breaks the rules doing that.
He breaks the rule.
He's breaking.
He's breaking them all.
He's breaking the rules.
He wants to keep it quiet because he doesn't want his competition.
Oh, like to have the advantage over him.
What does what does he think that they're all like standing behind him?
No, no, I'm not saying he keeps it quiet.
I'm not saying he's like quiet.
Literally, I need to keep it harsh.
When you turbo virgins in the chat, I need you to back me up on Harry.
Yeah, and he shouldn't have.
Cedric, Cedric tells Harry after Harry tells Cedric.
It's not a bad place for a boss.
Cedric gives him a clue.
Such a shitty clue as well.
It's just like almost like the books aren't actually that good.
But I, you know, I will say the movies controversial opinion.
The movies are better than the books.
Do you can get over with them quicker?
They've got so many cliches in them as the turbo ist divergence rags is right.
Yeah, Cedric, the entertainer, he was a sparkly vampire man, wasn't it?
Is that Robert Patten?
There's that joke from Mitchell and Webb, whatever, where they're like,
there's just never any special Hufflepuffs outside of that one guy who died.
Hey, man, take one from the team.
Hey, man, take one from the team.
How self conceded do you have to be to assume that an 11 hour podcast is all about you?
Clearly got a parched Jeb.
Oh, spaghetti.
Well, sometimes, I mean, people will look at this one and be like, wow,
they spent 12 hours looking at the leaks for Star Wars.
I'm assuming like correct to moon.
Oh, absolutely.
That's all we did.
Yale time.
And I got my ass dropped.
So yeah, what about that?
Jeb Nichols fans be madder than Richard Spencer.
Maybe.
Well done Slytherin.
However.
That's funny.
If you laughed at it, it means it was funny.
Yeah, that's my definition.
Funny is subjective.
Yeah.
Privet mine comrades, Heil Jebler.
Yes.
ADL lists Thor's hammer as used by some white supremacist gangs,
but it's also ridiculous to think that a Marvel movie would reclaim the symbol.
Also, it's just a it could be just a hammer.
Is that is a symbol like a hammer is a symbol.
It doesn't have to be Mjolnir.
It could just be a fucking hammer because hammers are weapons.
It is a thing.
I read it on the Wikipedia page.
All right, then what is it being used by white supremacists?
Mjolnir specifically.
Okay, it just ignore them.
That doesn't work.
They'll start after we have to put a spotlight on them and say, no, you're naughty.
It's like, see some white white nationalists are using Pepe.
That means no one can use.
Remember the okay symbol that was taken away from us.
Yeah, happy that people were using Mjolnir white supremacists.
Uh, in the name of the dawn, Jeb Nichols and the cosmic chicken blessed this
eFAB against the massives, seen his dark materials yet never read, but like so far,
I have not, I'm afraid.
I've found the book so excited to watch it.
Wait, what books in the stock materials, his dark materials, the based on the
like the golden compass shit, right?
I've not got like, I've used, I've not started the show yet.
So the book, the book, dark materials, no, the show, his dark materials is based on,
uh, the book, dark materials.
No, the show, his dark materials is based on, um, the golden monkey,
the subtle knife and the Northern lights.
Nothing subtle about a knife.
The golden monkey.
Yeah, I believe that's what it's called.
I've not read it.
I thought it was the golden compass.
No, the golden compass is the movie, which is terrible.
How dare you leave me some was in that.
Can I, can I, what if that isn't there a big polar bear in it?
Yes.
Why don't you have that big, big ass polar bear?
Fuck you.
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, that could be your, it's not a human bear.
I think it comes under the umbrella.
Like we agreed.
Is it like, can it talk and speak?
Is it sentient?
I'm pretty sure it can speak.
I went with tiger strippers and I'm, I'm happy with my decision.
I mean, I would be too.
That's fair enough.
Yeah, I won't, I won't dissuade you there.
You know, tiger strippers.
All right.
Giving gas masks a bad rep is my thing.
Fair enough.
Mola, why hate women when you can look at women?
See, I don't think that's a dichotomy.
You can do both.
Why out?
Why not both?
You can give a hateful glare.
Yeah.
You can get a hateful yet lusty gaze towards the women.
Hmm.
Would you guys say Joker is your favorite film of the year?
Yes.
So far.
Yeah.
Well, when I'm sorry.
Episode nine, of course.
That'll be the favorite.
Obviously, that'll be our favorite.
Mola slash panel.
Do you have an interest in becoming a writer for movies or working in the writing process
in some way?
If not, no.
If not, why?
And if you are, what has your experience been so far?
Any advice?
So go ahead.
Well, I was going to say that, like, I have an interest in writing stories, but honestly,
not too interested in doing anything mainstream because of the amount of restrictions that
would probably come with it as in if I was to be a screenplay writer and not the director
slash producer slash editor, then my work is going to get destroyed more than likely,
at the very least changed significantly.
And that's not even necessarily out of malice or anything.
That's just people doing their thing.
So I probably want all of those jobs.
And then at that point, I'd be like, how fucking hell do I want all of these jobs?
This is insane.
So the closest I'd probably get to it is making,
I guess, what you'd call indie films out of scripts I'd write.
And I wouldn't mind writing some stories, maybe a book, whatever.
But mainstream movie, doubtful because there's going to be a lot less of meat in it.
And that wouldn't let us do this shit we want to do.
Probably.
Yeah.
Which would be lame sauce.
What are you guys writing?
That was pretty much going to be my answer.
Yeah, I would I would probably want to do like animated stuff so you don't have the
restrictions that normally come with a budget here.
Jay wants to make anime.
Yes, anime.
Not hentai.
Uh, well, I mean, that's implied.
All right.
Uh, I have an upper respiratory infection that's kicking my butt.
It sucks.
But at least if have is always here to help a poor sick.
He's a sick one.
Yeah, you got it.
You get unstick better.
This will be another 12 hour stream.
Probably.
We're at nine now, which means we got 10 11.
We got three hours to get through the rest of these.
Oh, my goodness.
Can can we do it?
I'm going to go ahead and say it's going to be a close one.
Probably.
I don't know.
Um, it depends on how how in depth these questions are going to get or not.
You know, it's really up to them.
Jenny's white knights have zero percent chance of wooing her,
yet they still have more of a chance than Quintin does.
Oh, Quintin's got less than zero.
Damn.
Not a movie.
We're talking about a trilogy.
Uh, I'm not 100% sure what that was a response to or referencing, I'm afraid.
But yes, true.
Uh, the jebby nickels defenders reaction to episode 59 is nearly as disappointing as J.
Well, thank goodness it didn't get to that level, huh?
Uh, if app now officially not cringe.
Yeah, we've gotten the stamp of approval from cringe mods.
So how about that, guys?
We did it.
Yay.
Um, long live the toxic brood.
Long live, sir.
Long may they reign.
Trying to harass people for criticizing people you like that in cringe, bro.
That's pathetic.
Um, yeah, you'd think that there'd be some kind of irony for them to be like,
these guys go after this person.
Let's all dog pile these people like, well, that's a slur.
Oh, shit.
Sorry about that.
Yeah.
Got to respect my co-host.
I'm so sorry.
And I'm not one to turn down a good dog, but I feel like
a little bit, uh, a rhino milk toast to Ryan kennel, uh, kick J.
Very well.
And yeah, thanks.
Every frame a pill is out for when we all need medication.
Oh yeah.
That makes sense.
Wham in a gay.
Yeah, that's true.
From what I understand.
Yeah.
Women, lesbians, same thing.
So you got Jenny.
Mmm, someone make the 12 hours video or about me.
Ah, we, we, we, me.
No, you stupid bitch.
You wish you were Stacey, you fetal alcohol faced Pillsbury,
dough bodied Michelin, ma'am, bro.
That is raw.
Yes.
Even through some emotes in there of like a confused face.
He was like, well, wow, getting artsy.
Hey mauler, linkara blocked me from his Twitter account.
After I took the screenshots, I sent you about why he was blocking people.
Yeah.
So, uh, I guess I didn't give all of the information with the linkara thing.
So after he blocked me, he made like a big Twitter thread talking about how he was like,
Oh, apparently I've misrepresented somebody less.
Let's, I guess I'll announce now that yes, I didn't watch all of the 12 hour video because
I'm not going to do that.
Like, like a whole sarcastic rant about how, yeah, I guess he's in the wrong, but not really.
And then, um, I don't know, I guess time passed and he unblocked me.
And then I did a thread explaining why what's happened is really lame.
And then he was like, okay, my bad.
So it still worked out.
It's just that there was, there was a bit of dickishness, you know, here and there, which is fine.
Every super chat is an ordeal hyphens commas lack of spaces between emojis and words.
I've legit lost track of all the things that get super chatted, censored.
Oh yeah.
It's, it's, I imagine it's an adventure.
If you actually want to say some, uh, some, some edgy stuff, you gotta get like,
gotta get creative.
Twitter needs to get thrown off a roof.
Well, yeah.
I mean, I still have like, do you, how often do you use Facebook?
Either of you.
Oh, I guess.
I use Facebook to talk to friends and that's it.
I don't use it for like its feed.
Yeah, I guess I kind of do that as well.
I was just going to say like Twitter and Facebook.
It's kind of interesting to compare them because like,
scanning through Twitter is something I don't mind doing, but Facebook is like a nightmare.
Well, Facebook is full of shit.
And it's interesting how they evolved that way because Facebook is still doing great,
right?
Like in terms of users.
I mean, I don't know.
Maybe.
All right.
Anyway, it sucks being born a clown.
I think that was supposed to be clown.
But yes, I'm literally the most toxic man in chat.
Every Efap I'm Arab, which means I am Semitic.
So if they criticize Efap for toxicity, they're being anti Semitic.
All right.
Automatic shield.
Shawshank Redemption is just the prison movie.
Oh, right.
This was about how people referring to Joker as the clown movie,
like as if to sort of insult it.
And it's just like, yeah, you can do this with any movie ever.
Just, you know, and do the do this.
Just do a nice and sarcastic voice and you'll be fine.
I have internalized ableism.
Cripples are lame.
Oh my goodness.
That's true.
Efap is just a massive movie.
I mean, yeah, we've got character arcs.
We've got set up some payoffs.
We've got what you could call different vistas.
We have different villains.
Got seasons.
It's more of a series, really, isn't it?
No, no, I think it's a big movie.
I mean, Efap is one of those those those few things where if you were told,
oh, hey, there's going to be a new Efap and it's going to be feature length.
Everyone be like, is that it?
Yeah, they'd be disappointed.
They'd be like feature length and you go, no, no, no, feature length.
And if you look at the top, it says times five.
You're like, oh, I guess that's all right.
Law, law.
You pronounce those the same, Welshman.
Yes, I do.
I don't say law and lore.
Law, law, law, law in Britain land.
We say law and law, law, law.
Why did you throw that in there?
Yes, but yes.
So the the breaking the law and establishing the law.
Breaking the law.
Breaking the law.
Rex, did you hear the guy who made Astartis got his channel hacked?
I did hear that.
Yeah, from a different super chat, actually.
But yeah, yeah, it's weird.
It's a fucking asshole.
See, the super chats have set up some payoffs.
So how my favorite alt right leftist incels doing great.
Doing great.
Still sleeping.
Wondering what our political stances are.
But other than that, fantabulous.
Can't wait for someone to tell us.
We'll get there eventually.
Have you guys seen T4S DBZ abridged series?
And would you guys ever do a review or watch together on it?
I have no idea what that is.
And since it's Dragon Ball Z abridged.
DBZ.
I don't know anything about DBZ.
I've got no idea.
See, me and Rex.
Me and Rex watch quality shows like Batwoman.
Like we don't interest ourselves on this DBZ stuff, you know.
No clue about your your fucking your orchestra show with your
piccolos and your oboes and your.
I don't know stuff.
Also, I use the last of my money on this super chat.
Oh, why thank you.
Hey, Rags, when is your next video coming out?
Um, probably gonna be a little bit because I'm working on a big
project and it's gonna might be the longest video I ever make by the time I'm done with it.
My God.
It's gonna be something else.
I'll try.
I'll do dog bites stuff.
I got two dog bites videos that are done, actually, and rendered.
I just need to upload them.
So I'll get those put up tomorrow.
Can we have an awkward Jay becomes evil again?
Jay, kind of feel kind of like regressive though, wouldn't it?
Yeah, I feel like people will be like, oh, they've done this before.
They're just doing the fucking reverse.
We'll have to figure it out.
Our writing team has been great so far, but I do feel like they might be running out of steam.
Gonna have to poke them.
What is a time travel episode where we go back?
We watch an old efap.
Is that what you're suggesting?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
So like the the efap crew back to maybe like 2016 or 17.
And then we all Jay, one old evil Jay, and there's like a battle episode.
That's bullshit said he can come back on and fucking Ross been like,
hey baller, that's bullshit.
You can come on.
Rod, do you like this bullshit?
Is that what you're trying to tell me?
I know he doesn't like you, Jay.
You're like what one might say as a disgusting person to him, I guess.
Except my feet.
Jay's a hole.
I wonder if raw likes Brian.
No.
A fap in time.
I'm calling it now.
Rod does not like.
Rod is not like bras.
Bro, no, no bras for rock.
Why do you do that with your thingy?
Why can't you be consistent?
Oh, he's talking about the icon.
Oh, char would make really good.
Oh, mine.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
I forgot to change it back.
Well, too late now.
I don't care anymore.
Char would make great furry daddies.
Yeah.
That's what.
Yeah.
So I should put a little water bottle on his head and just kind of rebrand.
Probably good.
Yeah.
No, go for it.
Yeah.
Here we go.
I'm rebranded now, boys.
Better than a person.
I know.
Persons are boring.
I like how Rags said raw hates bras.
Raw said braless better, yes.
Braless is better.
I'm glad we've had this conversation.
I disagree.
You disagree.
I won't disagree.
Oh, okay.
Can we have an arc away?
Oh, wait.
I read that.
I'm sorry.
I just wanted to make sure that you knew that there are people advocating for you being evil,
Jay.
All right.
Would you consider watching first episodes or two from the other CW shows as a comparison to Batwoman?
I don't know how much of a Pandora's box we want to open there.
Why should we kind of like delve?
We just watch the CW for the rest of our lives.
All right.
I hope I'm falling currently into the sleepy sloops.
So I'm just going to drop out at this point.
Do you want to plug yourself, Jay, or are you too tired?
I do great, amazing work.
It's all really good.
Yeah, it's great.
Go watch it.
Jay, they don't know where you do it.
On my channel.
Goodbye.
What is your channel?
Jay's channel can be found at NoBullshit.
N-O-B-U-L-L-S-H-I-T.
I like saying Quinton reviews instead.
There you go.
I'll even put a little the dawn.
There's a link.
If you guys want to check out Jay's channel, assuming you haven't yet.
All right.
Back to Da Super Chats.
Hello, Efab gang.
I've been watching every stream since the Major Lee incident,
and I love this style of content.
Thank you all for your hard work.
No problemo.
Consonant incident.
I think we all do.
That was a thing that happened.
Oh, yeah, like the Twitter thing, right?
Oh, no, I'm assuming he's referring to the debate.
Just, yeah, the debate.
It was, yeah, that was fun times.
I still think that was fun times.
H-bombing guy reminds me of a prostitute's breath
after blowing a fat man.
Oh, my.
Oh, my goodness.
It smells like cock and it's nasty sweaty.
Jay Ebs...
His nose is going to be bumping up against his gut.
Jay Epstein did not kill himself.
Big Bogebins.
You hear Batwoman's already on the chopping block.
So I've heard...
Yeah, I guess he's not going to make it past the first season.
I mean, I'm OK with this.
Honestly, I feel like it's a win-win, right?
So if there's only one season,
that means 22-ish episodes of Efab minis covering that shit.
That's fine.
If we get a season two,
fucking, I love the idea that we take a break
and then we all collect back to check out more Batwoman.
Like, that'll be fun.
But if not, fuck it, you know,
there'll be other stuff we can check out.
It's fine.
That thing being financially successful,
probably an insult to existence just as a whole.
So, you know, if it goes down, so be it.
This is, you know, we'll get over it.
It's fine.
Rags, take me down to Brown Town
with your prehensile power piston.
Boy, we're going to Pound Town, boys.
A senior White House official has said
that Donald Trump screened Joker for guests,
including family, friends, and some staff.
It is reported that Trump liked the film.
Hello, based department.
Oh, he's Nazi confirmed.
I didn't.
That's interesting.
Imagine seeing Joker in the fucking White House with Trump.
That would be such a bizarre experience.
You'd be like, yeah, all right, let's do it.
I know, that'd be crazy.
You're going to cover Eric Butz's final Star Wars trailer reaction?
And if he had one of my amazing Trump steaks,
the finest steaks that have ever been made, possibly of all time.
So, I have not intended to cover Eric Butz on here ever again.
There was just that one that was amazing, where he cries.
But yeah, you know what?
Good for him.
You do you, Eric Butz.
At least somebody's getting something out of these films
in a positive, happy enjoyment.
That's that sort of way.
We'll be laughing.
Like, we'll be having fun too.
All right.
Yeah.
But I'm telling you, when your wife's boyfriend's kid is born
and you don't cry that much, you're going to be in trouble.
Yeah, she's going to be upset.
And what if the kid says something like,
it sounds like a noise, but it sounds kind of like force.
Would he be like, oh, my God.
Oh, my goodness.
A limerick.
There was once a man from Beijing who penetrated Rags Ring.
He released all his lust.
In one monthly thrust, Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself.
I like that.
I just felt the okay sign right there, too.
I like that.
That was really good.
Something I love about Efap is that Ra didn't die a villain,
but instead lived long enough to see himself become a hero.
It broke the Dark Knight.
That's what Ra did.
I believe it.
No one badmouthed our Lord Ra.
Knives out.
Maybe roof's out, but yeah.
Yeah.
Here's one of my free super chats, long man.
Why?
Thank you.
There's a lot of those going around.
I guess this is to do with YouTube Red, is it, or something?
You get free super chats every once in a while?
I don't exactly know.
Yeah, I think every month or so, you either get like two or five dollars
just free to just throw at somebody.
I actually threw mine at you guys earlier while I was out.
Neat.
Yeah, so you'll see me down there somewhere.
Wolf mentions saving Private Ryan from time to time.
I wonder what you guys think of Fury.
We'd love to see you guys look at war movies from time to time.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hey, I haven't seen Fury.
I liked it, but then I can't remember.
There was a lot of criticisms of it that I didn't quite think about
and a lot of accuracy issues I've heard about.
Also, it doesn't hold a candle to save Private Ryan,
but that's not even fair because nobody does.
They spell saving Private Ryan as Ryan like Ryan Johnson.
Don't do that.
I have to wonder if that was intentional.
Maybe they've just seen the name Ryan Johnson too much.
First time getting you live, watching some single digits.
I forgot which probably won't catch you saying this,
but hi, Rags, and I'll listen to this later with some milk.
Well, to your future self, enjoy your milk.
Jenny was used to seeing no-brainer Marvel movies.
I mean, she covers mostly everything from what I can tell,
and I don't know what it takes on the Marvel movies where,
for all I know, she didn't like them.
Or at least maybe, you know, I don't know.
And she didn't like Rogue One, and she did like TLJ,
and she didn't like Suicide Squad, and she didn't like Joker.
There's this selection there that's like,
oh, all right, this is strange.
But yeah, whatever works for you.
That works, so we'll have to listen later.
I love you guys.
All right.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hey.
And Mauler is the alien this time.
DNA scan him.
Jenny should watch out.
She'll be kicked out in the SJW crowd for being too white.
Oof.
Too white.
Too white.
I'm offended.
How could you cut out Ra and his rooftops?
Wait, who cut out Ra and his rooftops?
Seriously, if ever there's like a-
That's a hate crime.
You know like an Efap, but like League of Legends style game?
I forget with Mober, I guess, yeah.
Like Ra would totally be a character.
His ulti would be throwing a rooftop down the lane.
It would just roll all the way down,
and anyone who's hit by it is like picked up and thrown off, that sort of thing.
I can picture it.
Always a good day when Efap is life.
Most Sundays is essentially the plan,
but I'm not gonna keep to that.
I told everybody it was gonna be Thiz day, that didn't happen.
Yeah, I couldn't do Thursday, and then like we couldn't do like Saturday.
We really shuffled this one around this time around.
I think we've been consistent now still,
because if we ignore all of that,
then we've been doing Sundays for a long time now.
Yeah, it's a good time.
Which, yeah, because most people start at work then on a Monday, and so...
Well, I was actually gonna say it wouldn't really work for the Monday.
Tuesday would be fine, because the Efap would be up on Mauler by then.
Is that...
You should put the link to the cut version in the description,
slash pinned comment of Efap58 too, makes it easy to find it.
I mean, well, this is the thing.
If you're watching Efap 50...
Wait, you mean Efap 59, I think.
Then you don't need the cut version,
and so it's in this one, because this is the sort of recap coverage,
and so if anyone's interested, they can check out the cut version.
I figure that makes more sense.
Anybody who's...
Do you prefer your faps cut or uncut?
Yeah, that's a good question.
Because I don't really have a preference.
Each one of them, they're kind of, you know, special in their own way.
Yeah, whenever someone cuts a fap, you know,
you can often find that some stuff that's important is gone,
but then some stuff that maybe you didn't need is gone if you do cut it.
So it's a complicated question, you know, right?
There's pros and cons, I think, to a degree,
but often it comes down to preference.
That is my extended take on that subject.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, no wids, no wids.
That is a super chat.
All right, no wids.
Anyone who won't sit through a whole efap is a tism.
I mean, that makes sense to me.
That's pretty much just logic, right?
That's as basic as like mathematics at that point.
Yeah, you know, 2 plus 2, tism.
Long man bad.
A profile called Emperor Donald has superchatted f.
So, yeah.
Well, f.
What you just posted is funny.
Several minutes of makeup.
I like Nick.
He's a, he's a Tropic Thunder as well.
He's, what's he called, a four leaf tabeck.
The, uh, the phony, uh, nom survivor dude.
Uh, rags.
I'm already a long man.
I'm not sure what that's referring to,
but at least we've gotten now to the portion of superchats
where rags is back.
So, you know, we're coming along quite well.
Rags, I still poop with my door open,
waiting for you to look you in the eyes as I do.
My demands have not been met.
We'll look each other in the eyes as it drops.
Yeah, I figured that was going to happen sometimes.
What drops the incredible tension?
I think something else is being dropped in this scenario.
I think so.
Is Kylo Ren, does he get to watch?
Gonna make a plorp sound more than likely.
Um, uh, the J I've lost the wolf.
I've lost you feel it too.
The J, the J I've lost the wolf.
I've lost you feel it too.
Uh, I don't quite get it.
Well, I'm now I'm lost too.
Thanks for playing my long man.
Bad video on stream.
Glad you enjoyed it.
Oh, was that the, um, was that the one we saw last week?
Um, it was, it was like, it was only like two minutes long.
This one.
Oh, it could be.
This one's from this.
I think he means this stream.
Oh, oh, the one where he said he,
that was the first time he's ever edited, right?
Yeah, that's him.
That's his scruffy pump.
No, maybe I think it is.
I got, I could check.
He's got a channel double check real quick.
Oh yeah, it is.
It is.
That's the one, the one that does the fun recap.
Yeah, dude.
That video was a lot of fun.
Yeah, that was great.
I really enjoyed that.
Good stuff.
Glad you enjoyed it.
Hope you get better at it.
Hope to get better at editing and make more.
Read berserk you massive.
I think wolf reads it.
Does that count?
It's the sub that wolf will read it and report back.
Me and rags will totally read it at some point, right?
Rags.
I think so.
There you go.
High rags, you filthy leftist.
Mola equals filthy Welsh supremacist.
Yeah, I mean, you know, what can you do?
If that is both dirty bedroom talk,
just someone calling me a filthy leftist.
Hand me.
I mean, that's what they get turned on by.
I don't know.
Efab is both alt right and now true leftists.
Congratulations on reaching apex moderate status.
We did it, everyone.
Don't be praised.
Apex moderate.
We are true alt centrists.
Yeah.
Jeb grand red sun will rise again.
Absolutely.
No BS is a piece of shit.
And Adam friended is porch atheist Jordan Peterson kiss
ass who doesn't have the balls to debate nightmare fuel.
Porch atheist.
Yeah, porch atheist Jordan Peterson kiss ass.
All right.
I don't know anything about Adam friended.
Yeah, I don't know.
No nightmare fuel, but I will agree that no bullshit is a piece of shit.
Not a controversial take.
Let me look that up.
Porch atheist.
Porch atheist.
Porch atheist.
A similar to porch dick.
A porch atheist is a person who sits on their porch and yells
at you just to let you know what's up.
The difference, however, is that porch atheists try to educate you from their porch.
All right.
Yeah.
What?
Okay.
Okay.
I ain't coming to your church.
Uh, Mueller, I just reread Discworld series sequentially and I'm amazed no one ever called
out JK Rowling for borrowing from Sir Pratchett thoughts.
I've not read Discworld, I'm afraid.
I'm only very, I'm familiar.
I'm aware of Discworld, but I know basically nothing about it.
Yeah.
I mean, if that's true, sounds like some video potential there to compare and contrast.
Speaking of video potential, there was a, there was that super chat earlier that said
something about DvZ abridged.
It's funny, but it's not really eFap material, I would say.
Anyway, I figured I'd jump on that real quick.
I love eFap because it supports my political opinions, which are fuck politics.
Oh, well, being not doing politics is politics.
Haven't you heard?
Yeah, that's a political position to not do politics.
It is a political position to be apolitical.
So is the Mandalorian any good?
I think it's, give that first episode a shot, see what you think.
I was talking to Jay about it and I was just like, honestly, having it start with just,
no, Jay hasn't seen it.
Having it start with, I mean, so far I think it's worth seeing.
I can't speak to the whole thing yet.
There's only been two episodes and one of them is very short.
So, okay.
Well, anywhere I can, anywhere I can see it, like Disney plus and nowhere else.
We wouldn't even suggest that you attempt to find it at any other location.
Okay.
All right.
I get you.
But yeah, like I was saying to Jay that it was like really refreshing to have the,
it just begins.
It's just a guy.
You follow guy to bar, he gets his turns on his bounty hunter.
He's getting his bounty, takes the bounty in.
Like that's the first like 10 minutes and it's so focused to me that it's just like,
oh, it doesn't have to be enormous.
It's so nice.
Fucking story about 10 planets and fucking armies and explosions and death stars.
It's just a guy.
A guy tried to make his way in the universe.
Like, oh, thank Christ.
It's weird how much that's, that's a bit wanting something like that, but hey.
Are you guys excited for Ryan Johnson's knives out?
No.
That's a big no though.
There is a plan to, once it's out, we're going to do an Efap movies with
critical drinker.
Apparently that's the idea.
Oh, no idea if it'll come out in a way that's worthwhile, but I will.
That movie's out soon, isn't it?
I remember somebody saying it was coming out in November.
Or is it December?
Oh, look.
Knives out release date.
29th of November.
So 11 days.
Huh.
All right then.
Yeah, I don't know what to expect, man.
Could be garbage.
Could be okay.
I doubt it'll be great.
Watch it be like brilliant.
Ripper Rooney, if that's the case.
Efap is now officially an alt-right communist show.
Perfectly balanced.
Also, you should watch 1978's Lord of the Rings cartoon with Wolf and Jay.
Bonjour, rag.
Hello.
And I would like to watch that.
We could.
Is that the Ralph Bakshi one?
I think so.
That was strange.
I remember seeing that as a kid.
It is strange.
Like in a classroom.
But there's some stuff people feel that was better in that than the set of films,
but more things are better in the main films.
I thought about that.
Just a bit of throwback to Mola's Last Jedi.
Luke memes and then leaves.
That's the quote that got me.
I'm already looking forward to Efap about the rise of Skywalker more than the movie itself.
Fuck, I kind of remember the context of Luke memes and then leaves.
I think, was I just referring to the fact that he's an asshole?
Because that makes sense.
Notices le bulge.
French furries be like, oh, what is this?
Notices le bulge.
Disney remake of BFG, Big Friendly Giant Midget.
I think we need some clarification on what is and is not SJW.
Well, man.
So if you break it up, social justice warrior.
So you're just fighting for social justice, right?
That would make you a social justice warrior.
It seems to me that like, just the central point of contention
is the people that get offended on behalf of everyone else.
And that's just kind of.
Yeah, because they're like, that's an injustice.
And you're like, why?
It's like, socially, you should be nicer to these people or something like that.
And so they're fighting for that.
Yeah, this this offense them.
And then they say, this doesn't offend me.
They're all like, well, you're not real, then.
There's a bit of SJW and everybody, I imagine, to some degree.
But and then and then they exist in the extremes on both sides of the political aisle.
I think we probably agree with that, too.
And it's it's interesting what brings it out of people, I guess.
That'll be my conclusion.
But yeah, just break up the woods.
Have a look at how people are using it for the most part.
It can be tough, though, because I'd be as far as I can tell,
no bullshit would probably say we're SJWs.
I don't know.
I don't know if he would.
Pretty sure he would.
I don't know what he would reference, you know.
He wouldn't.
He just would.
He just he just say it and call it a day.
You see how he reacted to PSA Stitch?
He'll just he'll just call it a day.
Fucking exploded when he did.
That was that was really something.
He was getting pissed at the guy who wasn't saying that his.
Was amazing that he detected it as an insult to his wife
when it was highlighting how his wife should be defended.
He is like, what do I do in a debate?
Oh, yeah, go on the offensive.
Uh, yeah, you mentioned my wife.
Fuck you, dude.
Don't bring my wife into this.
Yeah.
When when in that video he says about destiny that he's a deadbeat dad
who doesn't love his kid.
It's just like, OK, seems fair.
Uh, how could you not know the producer of Efap?
Well, I was actually I think that was when we were looking at.
Oh, man, are we actually at that point now?
We're looking at the IMDB page.
We're getting there.
That was all right.
Wait, that was we have to get to be.
We have to be as good as the Lord of the.
I was about to say that that's before we even touch the leaks.
So maybe that's not actually that far into the stream.
But yeah, I was looking for James Moore as a producer.
Rhino man bad.
Fair enough.
I don't know who Rhino Man is, but maybe that's Jay.
And there I was casually debating a movie with random people on the Internet.
Then suddenly I'm gay.
You didn't ask for this.
Watch Jojo Rabbit, you massives.
Seriously, though, it's a movie that isn't being talked about enough.
And Disney tried to throttle it.
I'm not against watching it.
It looks like a fun premise.
I would love to watch it.
It looks like fun.
It looks like a fun movie.
I'm out of the loop.
Is that recent?
Yes, it's Tycho Waititi's new movie about a kid who has Hitler's imaginary friend.
Oh, right.
I did see a preview for that a while back.
That does actually seem pretty interesting.
No bullshit master debater.
He's special.
All right.
Very special.
Hey Rags, how orgy debates have you had?
I'm sorry.
How how orgy debates have I had?
I mean, that's one to one what it says.
Hey Rags, how orgy debates have you had?
I guess all I can imagine is you say how many debates have you had
because then like autocorrect, like complete autocorrect changed many to orgy.
Not many.
I don't really do debates, honestly.
I don't know.
I have nor have I debated the topics of orgies.
I would take the pro position, though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm pro orgy.
And then he follows up with super chat saying debate milk.
I don't know.
No, maybe it's debate someone about milk and milk, yes or no.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm going to go with yes.
Yeah.
Milk is really good.
I enjoy milk.
I think that milk is good.
Yeah.
And it goes with a lot of things.
And I don't like them putting chemicals in my debates.
They're turned the frickin' long but gay turn chemicals in the milk.
That's a super chat.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
I like it.
That's a super chat.
I like it.
Brooks is a legit Riri.
He is Riri.
Yes.
Which one of you first, Mauler, long or man?
You have to choose.
Long.
I'm sorry.
It has to be long.
Gotcha.
Long.
The long comes before my humanity.
Yeah.
New petition.
Rename the chat.
Mauler's big gay Jewish right wing death squad.
Press one or give milk to sign.
We're gonna keep pushing it.
I guess we'll have to see what chat things.
Palpatine.
The art of camp by full fat videos.
Oh, that's a video, I guess.
Palpatine the art of camp.
Really?
I don't know if I'd describe Palpatine as campy.
I don't wouldn't either.
He's eccentric.
I think he's outwardly sinister.
Yeah.
Like, he's kind of one of those like, a lot of people describe him as like, you know,
two dimensional evil and he's just, or one dimensional evil, whichever.
And he's just like, oh, I'm just bad for the sake of being bad.
But people still like him.
And like, there's not a lot of villains that can really get away with that.
And he does it well.
He's got a plan.
He knows what he wants.
He wants power.
He wants to kill the bad man.
He comes up with plans.
He tricks them.
He wants to pit people against each other.
And he seems to really love being bad.
Oh, yeah.
He rebels in it.
Not to be confused with rebels in it.
Right.
He doesn't do that.
You're a rebel even after you've won.
He doesn't rebels in it.
Someone has actually made movie Bob or Nazi.
And you get quotes to choose whether or not it was movie Bob or Nazi.
And the first one is, I'll never forgive the troglodytes who stole the future.
I earned to prolong their worthless existence.
Was that movie Bob or a Nazi?
That's that one.
Bob, I remember that.
I remember that tweet.
That's one of the tweets.
What's the thing?
I don't remember it.
And for a second, I was like, that could be either of them.
I don't know.
All right.
Although it's like the dead giveaway is the word chocolate types.
I can't imagine.
I thought troglodytes as a word has been used forever.
Well, it's attributed to D&D, though, isn't it?
Like some kind of board like tabletop sort of thing.
Oh, yeah, that's a good way.
It's a it's a nerd thing.
So I yeah, if because I because of troglodytes was said by Hitler, I think like a lot of
people would actually have like, you know, they pull back when they hear the word more.
Yeah, well, I'll put that in for maybe like just for a meme section.
Some time.
Yeah.
But is there is there a few entries in there?
Like, oh, there's a lot.
Oh, there are times when I really hate that Jim Crow era laws ruined the idea of intelligence
testing for voting.
Do you assume this?
Yeah, because Jim Crow is after Nazis.
Well, I mean, the question is, what are the is it like Hitler quotes or just random Nazi
quotes?
Because, yeah.
Oh, look at this one.
There are no bad tactics, only bad targets.
That's moving, Bob.
Yeah, you say what an awful quote to have attributed to yourself.
I'm like, there are literally things that Hitler like the Germans would do things to
the communists that they would not do to like the the allies, the Americans stuff there.
So I mean, in that sense, Hitler is actually more moral.
Well, like the Germans, the Germans and the Russians in World War Two, they had exploding
ammunition or so like rifle rounds that would when they hit, they would explode.
Oh, also, I don't think they are old movie, Bob.
Against the allies.
I just read the ones that I did recognize that are so fucking controversial and yet
a movie, Bob.
Yeah, we'll try and check that out at some point.
I know I just need I know more controversial movie Bob quotes than controversial.
Mueller, at this point, you have to release a good every day of the first week of April
to get all these quotes in.
I've got my work fucking set out for me, apparently.
I'm gonna have to get all my rise of Skywalker stuff done before April hits or March even.
Jesus.
I got some work ahead.
Anyways, have a great week.
You celestial apex debater.
Don't worry.
Thank you, dude.
When if when you fap nine when episode nine reveals the Emperor, it'll be Ian Mc
Demon saying it's me Skywalker. It's me. Skywalkers me all along Skywalker. Lando says, oh, son of a bitch in the background. Hashtag best writing. My name is she's Skywalker. Why didn't they just do that? He was the Skywalker.
Captain Marvel man. I gotta say Don is the hero. I didn't know I needed.
Oh, yeah.
If only he had a spider to tell him his future.
He doesn't need that. He can deal with anything, man. He's the dawn.
No, bullshit's.
Jeb has the gay.
Nick litious bagel spunk.
Oh, my.
It's back.
Oh, wow.
Took me 30 minutes to write those descriptions.
Oh, the I guess that's the guy who made the FAB IMDB.
So, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Check that shit out, folks.
It'll be cool to see you get get all fleshed out and chunky tisms.
And yeah, I guess I guess a different group of fans found it first.
Like, because the significant amount of down votes and down ratings is like a
I wonder who somebody must have shared it somewhere.
It was like, oh, if app on IMDB, stop them.
Best supporting cast goes to a fat chat.
Oh, yes.
Jay, how many seasons are funded for a fat?
How many seasons are planned?
I don't know that he's allowed to give out that information entirely.
Like I said earlier, we've got the 100 episodes confirmed.
We were allowed to say that.
Anything else is it's all up in the air right now.
You know, you renewed for a third year.
I don't know.
We can't say.
We just got to keep things rolling and hope that, you know,
hope that stuff stays on the on the up and up.
That IMDB thing reminds me check out downward thrust page on Wikipedia.
There's an epap section in regards to totals law.
Good.
That sounds good.
I hope there is.
Going to make an IMDB account to upvote Efap.
Well, thank you very much.
Thank you.
Yeah, we appreciate it.
And so does the guy behind it, I'm sure.
I've been working 43 of the last 48 hours with no end in sight.
Save me, Efap.
Save me, Ra.
Use your roof powers.
Jesus.
Is that like Jesus?
That's 48 straight hours.
43.
Yeah, I hope that you've gotten some 48 hours.
So it implies that he's still got a ways to go.
Hopefully he had some breaks in the injuries.
Or within the last 48 hours, he's worked 43.
Yeah.
Well, no, he says he's been working 43 of the last 48.
He's got to make it to 48.
He's been.
He's been.
He said no end is in sight.
43 of the last 48 hours with the last 48 hours.
He's worked 43 of them.
So he had like breaks and maybe a nap.
Like a five hour break.
Or.
Yeah.
By one hour.
Where does he work?
Yeah.
And I was going to say, if he's still going right now, at least you could listen to this.
If this is a show that he finds used to work with them.
I hope this helps stay in.
You know, keep keeping, you know, there to turn that frown upside down,
stick with it and enjoy the overtime pay.
Or at least I hope that they do it.
Jesus.
If they work for a company, unless you're on salary.
Yeah.
I also got a one way.
Yeah.
Like 48, like 43 hours already on overtime.
He's guaranteed overtime.
Oh, hardcore.
But I got to wonder, like, isn't it kind of illegal to go over like
like 18 or 20?
I don't know.
It depends where I for like where I am.
As far as I know, you can pretty much work as much as they want to pay you.
Except once you get to a certain point, you have to get paid overtime pay.
I remember.
I'm of as long as you're an adult.
I know there were certain states that they would kind of,
if you were a contract worker, then they could like, fuck you.
They can put it up.
Let me see.
Arkansas labor laws require employers with four more employees to pay employees overtime
at a rate at one time is a rate rate when 40 hours or more in a work week.
Unless an employee is otherwise exempt.
There's probably work hours in Arkansas minor at sea.
Miners are for it.
Yeah, if you're like a minor, you can only work a certain amount of time.
Yeah, because dog in mind.
There are no state or federal guidelines regarding how many hours
in Arkansas may work within a day or week.
So basically, if your employer is willing to pay you and pays you proper overtime for your hours,
I think you can just, if they let you, you can just keep going and going.
Work until you drop.
Jesus.
I mean, then again, I don't think they can make you.
I'm not sure.
Yeah, I remember while I was living in Seattle, like 20 was the cutoff.
And then like, you'd have to be sent home.
Like there was no possible way they could do it.
There was a law against it.
So that's why I was thinking, well, isn't it kind of illegal to be 43?
But I guess that's not that's not the case in most states.
Oh, anyway, I just I don't know that I was just really curious about that.
Didn't mean to derail.
Hexagonal J3 are line less than symbol.
I don't know what that means.
Three less than?
No, like, well.
Did he misspell heart?
Maybe.
Oh, yeah.
Except I'm going to go with it's a heart.
And we give a heart back.
That is the nicest possible interpretation.
I'm willing to make money that help.
Okay, I'm willing to bet money that Palpatine will be just as maybe more useless than Snoke.
Hell, the slave kid at the end of TLJ might kill him at this rate.
He's apparently going to electrocute a whole bunch of stuff with his with his lightning to them.
So yeah, I guess he's just going to zap them right out of the sky.
His lightning knows friend from foe.
It's like I said, he'd better use finger guns when he does it.
Pew pew.
You better say that to pew pew.
Pew pew.
Bang bang pew.
Say gun egg three times for a meme, please.
Gun egg gun egg gun egg.
Wait a minute.
I know what he's trying to make you say.
I get it too.
Yeah.
Ray is but is struggling with it.
Well, continuity breaks confirmed.
It's going to be a lovely train wreck.
Yeah.
The idea that Ray could struggle with anything is ridiculous.
I'm upset on behalf of Ray fans.
She shouldn't struggle with anything.
She's all day early in play.
She's weak.
No doubt because she's a woman.
Saw terminator one and two for the first time.
Amazing.
They are great films.
Now, if you watch the last trailer slowed down, you can see the Sith dagger in Ray's
left hand when she and Kylo dual smash the statue thing together.
Why would you use a lights?
Why would you use a dagger?
What?
Well, it's it's implied because of the dagger when you don't have a lightsaber.
Yeah, but like I think the leak said that the dagger was a McGuffin and it's not an
actual like weapon to be used.
So she's like just holding it like, you know, she can't just drop it anywhere.
Oh, okay.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't fucking know how it works.
Uh, are you gay if you experimented with the same sex, but ultimately have no real
interest in them?
If not, is there a Tim also high regs?
Hello.
And no, um, if you don't have a sexual attraction to people of the same sex as you,
then you are, you are not at home.
Not the big gay.
Yeah.
Just if you tried it and you didn't like it, that confirms you're not gay.
Hi, Wag.
Hello.
Going to the US for a four, four in July and August, mostly to California, Utah, Nevada,
and Arizona.
Since you went to Grand Canyon recently, you have any recommendations to definitely check out?
Grand Canyon.
I go there.
Very, very lovely.
Las Vegas isn't too far away.
If you can go to Vegas, spend a night or two there, man, go for it.
Enjoy yourself in Vegas.
I did a, we did some like, we took like a trip down the Colorado river in the canyons near.
Let me actually see.
Uh.
Um.
Let me double check here.
This is the call.
The horseshoe bend at the Colorado river is where we went.
I don't, I forget the name of the, just, just if you look up horseshoe bend,
then it'll tell you what it is.
Page, Page, Arizona is where it was.
We went there and spent the day there, but there's all sorts of stuff to do
around that part of the country.
A lot of sightseeing, a lot of hiking, if you like that.
But I will say this, where did he say where he's coming from?
No.
What was the payment in?
Euros.
Euros.
Before you go to the West, drink like a week.
Start, fuck it, start now.
Drink lots and lots of water.
You want to get your body used to having lots of water going through it
because the climate might fuck you up, uh, or no, it's the altitude.
Sorry.
When, uh, when I go out there sometime, like a day after I'm there, I get a
really bad headache for like the night and then it's done and I'm normal.
And it's the altitude that can really fuck with you.
Some people just don't, it's a little rough for them to get used to the altitude.
I'm one of those people.
So, um, yeah, drink lots and lots of water.
You'll need it.
And when you're out there, you need to be drinking a lot too.
Cause it's a desert.
Drink lots of water.
Prepare.
When you're talking altitude, are you talking the flight?
No, no, not the flight.
Cause the flight is pressurized on the inside.
The, but the altitude of being that high up in Nevada and places like that.
Right.
If you come, like I, I'm, I'm in Arkansas and we're not very high up, but
over there in Nevada and the grand canyon stuff.
Ooh, you're, you're high up air thinner.
So water helps with the altitude and with the desert.
And the follow-up is also want to go to a shooting range.
Since we don't really do guns in Europe, you know, a good place to go or just
the sort of place to go to while not falling into some tourist trap.
I know there's a place that is around Vegas.
I forget the name of it.
I lament the fact that I wasn't able to go there myself, but I saw that there
was a gun range out there that lets you rent like automatic weapons and stuff like that.
Uh, there, there will be plenty of gun ranges in the U S but that one in particular,
if you go around Vegas, um, might be worthy of booking a place there.
So you can go all the way, big stuff, machine guns and all that, all that good stuff.
Plenty of shooting ranges.
There are plenty of shooting ranges.
It ends with lastly, high wag.
Hello.
You did not read my super chat in Efap 59 and I watched the super chat section twice.
So here you have five uraniums to forget it again.
Also high rags.
Hey, why don't they just say the thing I missed in the super chat?
Sad face.
Also want to go to, oh yeah, the Oracle is apparently a parasite.
In other words, they ripped off several journeys of Remus.
Well, apparently according to Jay's sources, there's not even going to be an Oracle now.
Oh no.
How horrible.
We shall see.
Long man bad.
Watch Mandalorian and rise of Skywalker consume.
Oh, we've been consuming.
We will consume.
Oh yeah.
The consumer that, uh, that response to the movie.
Bob.
Oh yes.
That's cause that's, he says the words like that cause he's from Boston, right?
Like his, his accent seeps in.
So he would say like consumer.
Consumer.
If that were the case, a week consumer with an UH at the end there.
Uh, gents, did you ever think Disney styles would come to this being so
apathetic about the next movie that you'd go through leaks on in, on an Efap?
Oh yeah.
See, this is the thing.
If I was very invested, I would be like, no fucking way I'm touching leaks.
I've, I've never gone through leaks like that ever before.
I despise leaks, but here I don't give a fuck.
At rags, another channel got hacked.
Major kill.
Major kill.
I don't know that one, but yeah.
Okay.
Um, let me take a look real here.
Maybe I remember it.
Uh, do you think there is time to get the music guy for batwoman to write the
soundtrack to rise of Skywalker?
I'm trying to imagine like the batwoman version of this soundtrack for Star Wars.
That's interesting.
Um, another, he's another Warhammer YouTuber.
Oh.
Looks like, yeah, an hour ago there was a stream of Binance dot Bitcoin BTC
giveaway broadcast, and then there was a stream of Binance.
Um, he's a Bitcoin looks like a Asian Bitcoin scammer.
And this is the, the channel.
This person, yeah.
They, I guess they streamed, uh, they, they streamed a, uh, CEO of Binance,
uh, exclusive interview with him.
Cheng Peng Zhao, which is a name that I trust a lot.
Um, yeah, I guess he, hmm.
So that's, so that's, they're both, so both him and a startis, um,
both Warhammer channels.
Interesting.
Terminator resistance is a kind of low five budget shooter, mostly.
Okay.
The real draw is that the story was clearly done by people who enjoyed T one
and two and the setting actually captures the future war feel.
Well, I leave me, I mean, that's, that's good.
From what I saw, the mechanics went very impressive, but I mean,
at least if the world is like fun for someone who's a big fan of terminator,
like, you know, you have that that's not something that you often get as a
terminator fan.
So, I mean, have a look into it folks.
If you think that would be something that, uh, you'd like my, I can't deny.
I'm curious.
Do you think foreshadowing is always required in order for a twist to be
effective within a story to what capacity?
Do you believe it's too much or too little, uh, also high ranks?
Oh, hello.
Um, I don't think so.
It can't help, but at the same time, as long as a twist makes sense.
It's good.
The make sense part is really the important bit.
Yeah.
It really needs to make sense whether or not it's foreshadowed or not.
I don't think so.
It's usually a neat thing if it is.
Yeah.
A good twist is a twist where when you get it, you look back and you're like,
Oh, okay.
That wasn't foreshadowing, but I see how that could have made sense.
Yeah.
And I feel like maybe to make sense is different than foreshadowing.
Yeah.
And maybe the other term can be like reincorporate, like incorporation or
reincorporation because foreshadowing can be like, you know, thematic and all that
shit, but with you, when you have like reincorporation, uh, you know, you can,
you can notice a character did something in the background that you've missed earlier.
And then, uh, maybe it'll come into play later.
They'll be like, when did that happen?
And then you can rewind with like, Oh, he fucking sneaky bastard there in the back.
You know, foreshadowing is interesting.
The, uh, the example I usually have as a go-to is, um, first episode of game of
Thrones, Ned Stark, whose sigil is a wolf finds a dire wolf with, um, the antler of a,
uh, I guess a stag in its neck and it died from that.
And then the end of the season, Ned Stark is head is taken off by a Baratheon whose
sigil is a stag.
So it's like, Oh, I can see how they're going for that, that kind of thing.
That was kind of neat foreshadowing, but never anything.
I think I said this in the, um, in the game of Thrones video I made where I was like,
foreshadowing isn't like the reason a thing can happen.
It's usually just sort of like a neat thing.
Honestly, um, I would put them in because I think they're cool.
Um, like the way you can frame something, you could have a character standing in a
position in your scene where in the background, there's like a knife that's hanging.
And if you aim the camera, right?
It looks like it's hanging over them or something.
You could just do that.
And then you could be like having some kind of thematic relevancy with a sort of damocles,
as they say, but, um, a twist, you know, there's, there's all different kinds of
ways to make twists effective.
The, as, as, as rag said, the main thing, just make it make sense.
Get that in order first and then, uh, look into how you can let the audience have some
awareness of it being a possibility, uh, but just be subtle about it, I guess.
Um, cause that foreshadowing is a different thing.
Um, but I mean, there's probably plenty of videos on YouTube that can go over that
just to flesh out further what it means to foreshadow stuff.
Yeah, just, just be responsible with it.
Uh, YouTube gave me three super chats to give you hope to hear rags respond to Patricia Texan soon.
Oh, it won't be this year is no way we're going to be able to do this.
Fucking worthless.
There are, yeah, there are way more videos that are worth mentioning than there.
Yeah, don't, don't hold your breath.
It would be logistically impossible for this year.
And next year, the fucking first third of it will be taken up by Rise of Skywalker stuff.
I think we're going to forget about that video.
Honestly, like that seems to be what's going to happen.
Uh, thoughts about green eggs and ham.
I enjoyed it.
I have no idea what that is.
I'm assuming it's a piece of media.
Yeah, isn't that just a new animated movie as of recently?
If so, I haven't seen it.
Traveling through hyperspace ain't like dusting crops, boy.
Without precise calculations, we could fly right through a star or bounce too close to a supernova.
Han seems less likely to impact directly.
Oh, yeah, like this is the thing, right?
So if you go by the rules of hyperspace, it's like this mode of travel where you enter into
a stream and then you enter back out into reality, but you've traveled.
It doesn't make sense to do what Holdo did, because that's not how that would work.
So, but, but Han would be correct in what he said in that you could fly like you,
if you end up in a star as a result of your thing or fly through one during hyperspace,
I don't even know what that would do.
Maybe they don't even know what that would do.
I think you said something like you end up in like fucking pieces flying everywhere.
And so this whole whatever, what did they call it?
Lights, sprinting, lights, springing, light springing, right?
I think that was it.
Doesn't sound like it's, I think it's going to piss off a hell of a lot of people.
Let's put it that way.
But I love the idea that they've invented it to try and counter the hyperspace tracker.
That's very amusing to me.
Why not just have the TLJ tracker be an experimental prototype,
and with the fleet gone, so is the tracker.
I think that's a little contrived at this point.
The idea that they lose it because they lost the fleet.
You'd think there would be something to recover,
and that several star destroyers weren't actually destroyed.
And this thing is apparently in production since Rogue One.
So, because they have like a little easter egg for it.
So I imagine that's not going to work, but I would say why not just not have it at all.
Let's just go that route.
In Halo 1, Cortana did have the coordinates to the Halo ring
based on the runes of the Fall of Reach novel.
Not a blind jump.
Again, I don't know enough about Halo, but I think that was a comment Rags mate.
Think.
How do you determine the difference between a lack of info in a story
being a plot hole or an open-ended element?
It can be open.
A plot hole is when it's actually contradicts something.
So for example, Batman getting back to Gotham when he had no resources.
If we've described that as a plot hole, what it should necessarily be described as
is an enormous convenience that he was able to do it.
It's extremely convenient.
I would say it requires an explanation to be complete.
But yeah, if he literally snapped his fingers and teleported to it,
we'd be like, what the fuck?
That's a major plot hole.
You can't just teleport.
That's bullshit.
But obviously, we didn't see that happen.
We saw nothing.
Maybe he wasn't even there.
Maybe it was all a dream about that.
Yeah.
On the flip side, how do you figure if it's holding your hand throughout the whole story?
I mean, you can be subtle about your information.
It's not exactly a known science to be able to figure out
exactly how much information is considered handholding.
But typically, you're going to want to try and get as much out as you can
in as small amount of time as you can in the simplest of understanding,
but also representing the complex elements correctly.
Very complicated.
But that's where writing comes in.
Writing is a tough skill.
This is where the talent comes in.
In Halo 1, it's revealed that the Pillar of Autumn actually didn't light spring.
Cortana used coordinates found on an artifact to make the jump.
It's been so long.
I can believe it.
It really has, but that Theramaster Chief Collection is on the way.
Cortana got the coordinates to the Halo Ring prior to the events of Halo CE.
She used them to escape Reach because they could not go to Earth.
Was this information that we learned in the later Halo series?
Or was this in the books?
I'm curious where that was.
Because there's the books, and then there's the games, and then there's the later games,
which go more into Cortana.
So it was in the books.
So like in the original books, we talked like Fall of Reach and First Strike,
and Fall of Reach, First Strike and the Flood.
Apparently, it was in the books.
So, Oni knew about the Halo Ring already.
All right, I didn't know that.
It's been so long.
Yeah, I've played them so.
Because I didn't know that Oni knew about the Ring, so.
I would rather listen to my parents get divorced again than finish that stream.
I'm not 100% sure what that's referencing.
Maybe Efap?
I don't know.
He said that stream, though.
So he's referring.
He's got to be referring to another one.
Oh, the no bullshit one, maybe.
Oh, that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The one between him and he and Stitch.
That sounded really hard.
It's Sitch.
Is it Sitch?
Oh, I was calling him Stitch this whole time.
Most people do.
I think I did when I first ever saw his name.
And I was like, oh, it's not Stitch.
It's Sitch.
It's Sitch, and I'm just not paying attention.
Cool.
Uh, recommend Norm Apollo's video breaking down Joker's psychology.
It's amazing and detailed.
Also, got a Joker SpongeBob meme I'd love to share with you.
If we haven't shown it, try Twitter.
If that doesn't catch me, it should eventually.
There are some memes that get past me, and then I eventually show on later streams.
Episode 9, The Cube.
Episode 10, The Aether.
Episode 11, The Orb.
Episode 12, The Scepter.
Episode 13, The Eye.
Episode 14, A Soul for a Soul.
I don't know if that's referencing something specific, but unironically,
that could be the future of Star Wars.
Just these things, these amazing objects, items, locations.
I guess it's always been that way.
To a degree.
So what you're saying is that Palpatine is Bowser from Super Mario Sunshine,
and they are ruining his vacation on his ice paradise.
Yes.
Hi, Jay.
Keep kicking, Jay.
No, kick, keep Jay?
You arguing you want to kick him and keep him?
Because that's, you know, you can't, it's impossible.
That's an impossibility.
That's abuse.
I was referencing the Infinity Stones.
Oh, shit, I should have picked that up from the Aether, I guess.
Well, that can be referenced as a lot of things.
The Orb.
What's the Orb in the Infinity Stones?
Oh, a soul for a soul.
That's what should have given it away for me.
I was just thinking about them as actual, like, objects and stuff,
but the Sept, you know, the Eye of Agamotto, that one makes sense.
The Orb.
Power Stone is the Orb?
Oh, I guess so.
Yeah, you could call that an orb.
Yeah, all right.
I follow.
Yeah, I'm just, I'll be honest,
I'm super hungry right now, also tired, but we've still got two hours,
or well, one hour and 45 minutes remaining to get through these.
We've still got a chunk left, so keep on going.
We would read them if we could for you so you can grab a sandwich, but we can't.
But if Sidious really wore a cloak every time, he wouldn't have gotten full-blown Sith Aids.
I'm pretty sure, as we talked about, he got full-counter Sith Aids, too,
so it didn't even really matter.
Nope, remember, you just got to get blowed up, and then you'll be fine.
I'm not looking forward to all the sequel trilogy apologists defending Palpatine
being Rey's grandfather saying,
wow, now you guys don't want Rey to be related to a powerful force user?
You guys just can't be satisfied.
Yeah, I guess not.
Yeah, we don't know.
This whole time, we've never known what we want.
We definitely have no basis to say what's going to happen.
Well, my criticism, if someone was like,
what do you think about it being Palpatine's granddaughter?
I'd be like, oh, we can make something great with that, I think.
And then you're like, what about the one we got?
Like, that story in these three, I was just like, oh, they did terrible with it.
It's revealed, like, fucking halfway through the third movie,
and it doesn't really even make sense.
Apparently, Palpatine's kids hid their kid for reasons.
I don't even think we discovered those yet specific to those people.
Like, we can imagine some stuff, but okay.
But yeah, I love it.
I just, I don't know.
The storyline could have been that she was really powerful.
That's fine with me.
And she slowly becomes a little bit obsessed with this power, right?
Like, she's power mongering, and she slowly turns super evil.
Like, you could start the story if she's this generic hero.
But the fact that she doesn't even know what she's fighting for or why,
but she just does the good thing.
And then slowly, the good thing starts to turn to different things,
as she figures out what she wants rather than what's good.
And you know, I think there could have been something there.
And then you reveal she finds out some kind of bloodline thing.
I don't know.
I probably wouldn't want to make a related to Palpatine,
because it's just a little bit too...
Oh, those leaks didn't even mention Rose Tico.
Yeah, I was kind of wondering.
It's like, it took a while for them to mention Finn,
but then, like, not a single glimpse of Rose.
They didn't say her name once, as far as I'm aware.
Yeah, no, I don't see a single Rose reference.
Maybe she's in it, but just not relevant to the story that much.
She's just sitting in the background playing with ball and a cup.
I'm a general, though.
God, when she pops up, assuming she does,
when she pops up, she's going to be like, oh, God.
Oh, no, I thought we were done with this.
I made it to general and hard to believe that two, three years ago,
I was nobody.
You could just be a general in three years.
What do you mean three years?
Where are you getting that from?
One year.
Isn't that the time difference?
It's even worse.
I thought it was one.
Yeah.
I was only one?
Yeah, that's what I mean. It's even worse.
Stop it.
Why'd you do this all the time?
You make it sound better than it is.
Imagine getting to general in one year.
Jesus Christ.
What kind of an organization is this?
An organization with 20 people.
That's what happens.
I guess if there's 20 people, you know.
But, well, apparently there's more, so fuck it.
I don't know.
One of those ones where you just don't really ever understand what's happening
and you're supposed to smile and nod.
This is probably the peak of consume and move on kind of content.
Yeah.
That's Star Wars now.
Star Wars is just consume and move on now.
Yeah.
Everyone complains about why couldn't Luke just teleport instead of dying,
but apparently Palpatine teleported away from the Death Star instead of dying.
What?
Okay.
Well, let's see.
The thing is, like, it was really vague on how he survived.
Yeah, we don't know.
It's like, oh, he just plain survived.
I'm assuming the film is going to have extremely vague language.
It's going to be like, I survived.
And you'd be like, how I survived.
The power of the dark side.
I sealed myself in a force capsule.
Oh, my God.
He's going to teleport my ass to a different planet.
He's going to do the Leia thing, isn't he?
They established the whole Leia thing and then he's going to do the Leia thing
and he's just going to survive longer because he sits alone.
Like, all Sif can do that, right?
Didn't you know?
Right.
Can't you?
I'm bad now.
Star Wars, the Tism Menace or the Phantom Tism?
Tismenace.
Really?
I kind of prefer the Phantom Tism.
Phantom Tism?
The Phantom Tism?
The Phantom Tism.
Palpatine survives full and explosion, goes to Cloud City to get Luke's lightsaber,
runs into Maz Kanata.
They have an affair, creating Rey.
Brilliant.
And explains how Maz Kanata gets the lightsaber, too.
Nice.
Maz Kanata.
There's a-
Let me-
Maz Kanata.
What are you looking for?
It's- I'm just- I'm just reacquainting myself with her visage.
Yeah, she's apparently in this movie.
She wasn't mentioned either.
Oh.
Yeah, I would not.
No.
I wouldn't.
Nobody would.
I wouldn't fucks.
No.
I wouldn't fuck her.
Some big orange.
I bet she has, like, mandibles around her vagina or some bullshit like that.
There's a book by Chuck Wendig which says that Palpatine considered an
empire that failed to protect the Emperor him a failure that has to die.
Okay.
Star Wars Episode 9 and Mickey Mouse Operation?
Oh, chat.
You never cease to amuse me.
Palpatine is a Ray-Lo shipper.
I would believe it.
Snoke will be an imagination of Kylo-like jokers, G.F.
Fuck in front of me so I can ascend to my true power.
Kylo's imagining Snoke the whole time.
He was never actually there.
That's the way JonTron said dad with Aaron one time.
Deed.
Deed.
Uh, I mean, I don't want to sound pretentious here, but Itchy and Scratchy
comprise a d-dramat-d-dramaturgical dyad?
Dramaturgical?
Dramaturgical dyad.
A.
Drama.
Uh.
Okay.
Never mess with a dramaturgical dyad, aka what's wrong with his seasons.
With this year's season of Rick and Morty.
That's from 2017.
Okay.
Um, uh, dramaturgical dyad.
Dyad.
Um, yeah, it's, uh, this is Itchy and Scratchy
comprise a dramaturgical dyad.
Huh.
Okay.
I guess I gotta go here and man, if people want me to learn about this thing,
they're not making it easy.
They ain't making it easy.
Is it going to be something like they, they compliment each other while also
being each other's files and exist together and consist without each other?
Something like that.
More powerful together.
I don't know.
Dramaturgical dyad.
Yeah.
I guess I would look up dramaturgy and sociologists P a page and then control F
dyad, which doesn't appear on the page.
Um, yeah.
Anyway, uh, Hey guys, I wrote a story about E-FAB defeating Plank and pay for
my colleague college fiction writing class.
Would you be interested in seeing it?
Maybe doing a dramatic reading.
It has footnotes.
It is footnotes.
You lay, I don't, that's a risk, that's a risky maneuver, man, for your college paper.
Yeah.
Just, you know what, just how did it go?
That's all I'm interested in.
How, how did someone saying that I gave Chewbacca a Dutch rudder?
I don't know what that is.
I can believe it.
Um, a Dutch rudder having someone complete the act of masturbation by pulling up
and down on the forearm while the male holds his own penis.
Oh, okay.
Neat.
I used to think to see the squeal trilogy was a tragedy, but reading these leaks,
I realized it's a comedy.
I mean, that's not, that's honestly true.
Like if you were to read the, if these three films were all lined up this way,
imagine this is how they were always planned to be from the beginning.
What a fucking clusterfuck.
And like it got leaked all three scripts to be like, wow,
we would be stunned into silence.
Palpatine surviving is like, if I survived the Titanic by swimming to New York.
I mean, I think that's more realistic.
I think that's more, yeah, I think that's like logically possible.
I would rather swim across a planet than teleport attempt to teleport from an explosion
in space.
I know that one of those is at least theoretically, logically possible.
I would probably choose the latter actually, because I think I'm going to die in both.
And at least the second one will be quicker freezing in like icy waters.
I see waters.
You fucking fuck off with that.
You just sank in the Titanic.
That was the prerequisite.
Oh, is Titanic the prerequisite?
No, I'd still I'd still I mean, some people survive the Titanic.
Don't think they survive by swimming from the Titanic to the shore.
No, but they could have gotten like onto a boat.
Fuck it.
That is not the spirit of the question.
And you know, the sphere of the question.
I still would rather go with the one that's logically possible.
Well, in fairness, it says swimming to New York from the Titanic to New York from the Titanic.
Location of Titanic crash.
I know this is probably splitting hairs.
I'm going to see how many bajillions of miles I have to.
I was going to say, I don't think it's possible, especially with the temperatures.
OK, so oh, my goodness.
Yeah, that's is it a way.
Is it is it is it away?
It's quite here.
Well, I'll just I'll just copy paste this here.
And you could see it's kind of like fucking far.
Oh, it's OK.
It's a few meters like it's.
Yeah, it's only it's only like two inches on my screen.
So it's not far.
It would do.
Yeah, OK.
It would take you a few hours.
I think that's possible.
Yeah, you're right.
You'd need to see how many miles it is from New York.
Like swimming is subjective.
You could be swimming in a boat on a pool in a boat while the boat took you to New York.
You know, I mean, it was it's only one thousand two hundred fifty miles from New York.
You could do it.
I'm sure of it when that when I when I was in Boy Scouts, I did the mile swim.
I swam a mile and I was pretty fucking tired after one mile.
So if I can just imagine that multiplied by one thousand two hundred fifty times.
Yeah, a couple of breaks here and there.
Maybe a quick lunch.
And then I might be might be all right.
You stop this scenario.
You do like a hundredth of it.
Then you go, I'd like to have a break now.
Hello, guys.
I could doggy paddle twelve hundred and fifty miles.
Palpatine just wants to swap bodies with Ray so he can understand what it's like to have tits.
Oh, it's a strange goal.
Does does that seem out of character for Palpatine?
I don't think so.
Palpatine, I don't know.
He's got that creepy Sith cult.
He could probably tell him to flash him a few times a day just to keep him on his toes.
Wouldn't even have to leave his body.
Yeah, man.
You just sit there and stare at tits.
Have a force wink.
Yeah, man.
You just sit there and stare at tits.
Have a force wink.
Mola, would you rather watch the sequel trilogy five times
or watch season eight of Game of Thrones three times?
Or watch Lelouch Guiass Euphemia one hundred times?
Oh, honestly, with those.
I don't know if I'd want to watch the Euphemia thing one hundred times.
So it would take a while to be really boring.
And then the sequel trilogy versus the Game of Thrones one.
Probably.
Well, what about if they're both terrible?
Is it going to be like a matter of length?
Well, this is the thing.
I don't think I can off the top of my head figure out which one's going to be long.
If these three movies five times or a season season eight of Game of Thrones three times.
Well, let's get.
So the movies are like 90 minutes each or how long is Last Jedi?
Last Jedi was two and a half hours.
And the new one is supposed to be two and a half.
I'm getting assholes sideways.
Yeah.
So two and a half hours, two and a half hours.
So we're already at five hours for those.
I think force wiggles was two hours, 10 minutes.
I want to say I can't remember.
But let's just say that's like seven and a half.
That's like seven hours at least.
I just realized that actually might be longer than season eight of Game of Thrones
because that's six episodes.
Especially because you get to do it less.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Season eight of Game of Thrones season eight.
Yeah, man.
If this is just a simple mathematic equation, man, we'll do it.
Um, episode nine going to generate 30 to 40 E faps all by itself.
Unironically true.
We've still got TLJ E faps to do.
Well, it'll it'll will this will disrupt the monotony of talking about the rise of
We need to do the E fap before the rise of Skywalker E fap needs to be a TLJ E fap.
Basically just going over some autism takes.
Uh, they are copywriting Dark Empire comics, but in a bad fan fix style.
I've heard that is the case.
Apparently a lot of it is just getting copied badly.
Um.
Wait, is cats coming out on the same day as episode nine?
Is this true?
This sounds like the worst idea ever.
December 20th.
All right.
Mm hmm.
What can you say?
All right.
Yeah.
Good luck, cats.
You can do it.
You can do that, cats.
I would rather there's a part of me.
I don't know.
Actually, it looks creepy as fuck.
I would much rather watch.
Like basically you're on your way to saying it and then you were like,
No, I just then I remembered that the trailer exists.
And then yeah, you had to you had to dredge through some repressed memories and realize
that you're making a mistake.
Seriously, though, the trailer was kind of like a repressed memory.
For a moment there, I actually forgot that I had seen it that it terrified me.
My soul shivers at the mere memory.
And now you're going to watch either one out of sheer morbid curiosity.
Oh my goodness.
I'm cringing on behalf of something that I've watched that I have no.
I have nothing to do with it, but it makes me it's like secondhand cringe.
What an interesting prospect.
You've got a movie that's probably too weird for people and furries.
It's like, how do you do that?
And there's so many famous people in it.
Yeah, why don't you made them like hot with big fucking tits and stuff?
At least it'd be like, yeah, it's furry bait.
At least there's that.
But this is like that weird middle ground that no one likes.
Yeah, it's like that.
It's like that predator meme.
It's like it's like normies, furries, hating the cats movie.
At least Zootopia was like, yeah, these are clearly just anthropomorphic animals
and everyone everyone loves it.
Great. They're cute and funny and ha ha ha ha ha and expressive.
And you don't have to be a furry to appreciate it.
But man, fuck, I mean, cats is just it's like I'm not going to say uncanny valley
because they're not trying to be human and they're not there.
They're in that middle ground of human and cat.
It's an uncanny valley.
Ha ha ha nailed it.
These spoilers sound like a cheap rip off of the EU.
Good lord.
I don't think I want to be anywhere close to the fucking what that was that we read.
Don't want to get anywhere near it.
He has a human fetish.
I've noticed I've noticed a lot of people have a human fetish.
What was that about?
Very common.
Very weird.
Well, tickle my pickle.
I caught an efap.
Hey, guys.
Hello.
Hello, episode nine.
Rise of Skype Walker.
There's going to be a few Skype calls and they're apparently going to be very important.
Plot wise, that's going to be great.
I mean, apparently he can just call her whenever he needs it.
Yep.
Yeah.
We're going to do it like three times during the league.
I mean, yeah, pretty much.
Yeah.
One point two billion planets explode in episode nine.
More here is compensation for your part two TFA video.
Looking forward to August twenty twenty for part three.
Dreading April twenty twenty when a Godel melts my brain.
You can do it, man.
You can survive.
Das, here's some money for that McMuffin.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I'll have a nice morning McMuffin money.
Yeah, McMuffin, McMuffin, McMuffin, McMuffin.
Wait, how does Kylo grab the McMuffin through a four Skype call?
I don't know that he just does.
He just up and grabbed it while it was around her neck during the Skype call, huh?
Yeah, it's going to happen.
The McMuffin was around her neck.
An episode in CW covers uncharted LS jumps.
The coordinates are comals.
The coordinates malfunction and sends them straight into a star.
Also, the Republic is eventually able to find them by looking at last known trajectory.
Well, their logic in this is that they jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump.
And that's how they lose the first order, which apparently that's how that works.
Like I said, the way they figure out where you're going with hyperspace is reliant on
knowing where, you knowing where you were going.
Okay.
We'll have to see the movie.
I don't know how they're going to justify it.
Sexual harassment.
Anyway, guys, here's a McMuffin.
Oh, thank you.
The necklace is actually a toy and galactic happy meal.
Okay, I can believe it.
It's a McDonald's happy meal.
Get a McMuffin with a McGuffin and a hash brown.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds tasty.
Yeah, I'd like a McMuffin with rhino milk, please.
That'll be the Efap chain of fast food restaurants.
We will sell McMuffins and rhino milk.
Yep.
Come in blue and green.
Just finished full in order.
Don't waste your time.
Oof.
Yeah, we're getting some, it's pretty split down the middle so far,
whether or not people really like this thing.
Ray to Kylo, be my force deity.
Oh, no.
Force daddy, watch me.
Shit.
Star Wars Episode 9, The Rise of Various McGuffins.
Looks like it, honestly.
Yeah, there were like three or four fetch quests.
Oh, this will tell you where we are in the super chats.
Wait, Finn is Lando's kid?
No, actually, it's Janna, the other one.
So they make Lando a deadbeat now, too?
Wow.
Lando's kid got stolen.
He just sort of didn't even try to look for them.
He just gave up and stayed on a planet.
That's so bad.
You're just going to keep fucking the Millennium Falcon, just concern himself.
Also, who's the mother?
Yeah, did she give a fuck?
I don't know.
Did he fuck like a coffee machine and a kid popped out?
Oh, no.
Ray is holding a dagger in the final trailer in the scene where she and Kylo are destroying
the statue thing.
Yep.
Yeah, I'm starting to believe it more and more.
What's with the ST having older men just give up and stay on their planets?
I don't know.
Hasstatus channel was hacked.
Rags, please rally Efap to his Twitter account and help him get YouTube's attention and his
channel restore.
CM Valrec, chapter master Valrec, by the way, protected your accounts.
Oh, protect your accounts.
I guess that's what that means.
And like, yeah, just as we said, two factor authentication is probably the best way to go
for a lot of things.
But I'll probably tell Archie needs to watch himself here.
Yeah.
Anything anyone can do to help.
I don't know what the process is or something like this.
I'm assuming he's trying to get in contact with them.
I was just thinking of myself, that creator chat that they give us.
It's probably gonna be so useless for something like this.
What does everything been hacked for him?
Or is it just like his Twitter account or is it just getting the YouTube account hacked?
Can't be fun.
As far as I'm aware, what if like the worst thing that they hack your channel and they
delete all your videos?
Apparently, because I've seen that happen before.
Apparently, YouTube can recover them in that case.
Um, even though when you do it, it says forever delete your video.
I don't think YouTube actually forever delete your video.
It's probably placed on some kind of temporary thing.
And once it's been there for a while, they'll be deleted.
But um, it's in case of the fact that someone hacks you and deletes everything.
But yeah, episode nine also reveals that mace and Lando are also related to Jango
and every other clone in Star Wars.
Of course, everyone's related.
Uh, so it's a two way screw for Lando and Finn.
Ouch.
No, no, no, no, it should be fine.
Uh, coming to Disney Plus this winter.
It's Ouchie and Scratchy Show.
Ouchie and Scratchy.
Ouchie and Scratchy.
You said Ouchie.
I prefer Ouchie.
It was just called a Sith Lord called Ouchie.
Ouchie.
Ouchie.
I'm Ouchie.
Uh, thank you for this epic podcast.
And hello, Rags.
Hello.
Ouchie man.
Take me by.
Oh, sorry.
Ouchie man.
Take me by the hand.
I'm just gonna fucking Ouchie.
Ouchie is a meme now.
We'll have him.
I wish, I hope he's real.
I'm gonna see him pronounce it and it's like Sith Lord Ouchie.
Read 09BW Comics.
Great.
Not SJW at all.
No one cares.
She's gay.
Actual characters with flaws.
Crisis promo is wrong.
She knows what MV is from Elseworlds.
Oh, nine.
Oh, nine.
All right.
Every time Ouchie is not on screen, everyone should say,
Where's Ouchie?
True.
The dagger says,
Despite being 13% of the population...
And C-3PO begins to sweat.
I actively hate Rey now.
How can the huge universe of Star Wars revolve around a single character
which nothing can happen?
I want to die.
Rey is what it was always about.
The first six movies that came out, that was about Rey.
Star Wars is finally becoming what Alec Guinness feared it would be.
Sci-fi nonsense.
Well, yeah, actually reading those...
It is sci-fi nonsense.
It's fucking nonsense.
It is nonsense.
Like I said,
one of the big problems with discerning whether or not these leaks are real
is that we can't rule anything out as being too stupid for Star Wars now.
What a weird position.
It's what would Daenerys say.
They're using it stupid as a shield against me.
I'm fluent in over six million languages except this one.
Well, he's fluent in it.
He's just not allowed to speak it or whatever.
I can't have a fucking hell, man.
That's gonna be so stupid.
He can read Ebonics.
He just can't talk in them.
Because that would be racist.
That would be racist.
They're killing 3PO because the actors said the sequel trilogy was shit.
I mean, he's not dead, though.
They bring it back later.
So, yeah, I don't know.
Hey, guys.
He has 0.00002 billion dollars.
Hi, Jay.
Surprise Moon.
Are you looking forward to another Surprise Moon?
I enjoyed watching you talk to Patricia, by the way.
Give this to Jay.
Will do.
We will consider it.
Ray sucks off the whim.
No, no, no.
I don't think that's what I'm talking about.
Sucks off is what?
Well, his whim.
My inception.
It won't be proper Star Wars movie unless they've built a spherical station
that can destroy 1.2 billion planets.
I mean, they've got a series of ships that can do it, so.
I can't believe Hux is going to be revealed to be the fucking mole
and then he's killed a moment later.
And then they just blow him away.
There's so much to say about this film, these films, what they've done.
It's fucking real.
So, this is interesting.
Someone linked me this Quora thing.
There's a question on here called,
did Darth Sidious ever show any care for or pride toward Vader?
Apparently, we have a quote from Palpatine here.
Of all the monsters I have created,
I still regard Darth Vader as something of a minor masterpiece.
No, he was not an entirely alchemical creation,
but he was my monster, nevertheless.
Even though he failed to live up to his full potential,
there was much pleasure in transforming Anakin Skywalker
from a bright-eyed, tussle-headed youth
into the greatest Jedi killer of all time.
Yes, he ultimately turned against his master, as monsters sometimes do,
but that was my fault, not his.
Given the opportunity to create Vader, I would end with Zio.
So, apparently, it's from Jedi vs Sith, the essential guide to the Force.
Well, that's bullshit now, go away.
Remember, he considers Vader like a fuck-up,
because he wasn't the Dyad.
Rags, that didn't mention the Dyad even once, what the fuck?
Well, this thing, this is from Palpatine, apparently, a quote,
but it said, he ultimately turned against his master, as monsters sometimes do,
but that was my fault, not his.
Given the opportunity to create Vader again, I would end with Zio.
So, when is he saying this?
When is this quote taking place?
Is this supposed to be some kind of, like, weird...
His commentary on...
I don't know, man, that doesn't make sense unless
that book was baited like he did survive, which...
Apparently, this is The Creation of Monsters
was the third volume of Emperor Palpatine's Dark Side Compendium.
Uh...
Sith Alchemy, da-da-da.
Book of Anger, The Weakness of Inferior.
Unfinished at the time of Palpatine's...
So, this one was unfinished at the time of Palpatine's first death at the Battle of Endor.
So, I guess, even from the Wikipedia, this is his first death.
Just not much of a death.
So, yeah, I suppose...
Yeah, I guess this takes place...
Uh...
Okay.
Dark Side Compendium, this is from the Wikipedia id...
I don't know.
Fuck it.
It's all stupid, it's all shit.
Yeah.
It's all shit.
Um, Anakin was supposed to be Space Jesus?
Well, no, no, Ray is Space Jesus.
Is 3PO Rose his sister?
To be fair, to be fair, Anakin did.
To be fair, Anakin did more to end slavery.
These did, so...
Is 3PO Rose's sister reincarnated?
Oh, I'm being a port atheist.
Yes.
Now you need to debate, no bullshit.
Okay.
Is 3PO Rose's sister reincarnated only to be killed?
No.
Say what?
Why would 3PO be Rose's sister reincarnated?
Rose's sister reincarnated.
Um...
Oh man, imagine being that hot in life and then you die and you get
uploaded into C3PO.
That's a record.
Oh no, a terrible mistake has been made.
Oh no.
You thought you would find a hair dryer, but it was I, Dio.
Get it?
Uh, can I tell you how happy you have all made me?
I found Efap about a month ago and I never knew anyone hated Disney Star Wars movies as
much as I do.
I've been listening to the old Efaps and love them.
Long Man Good.
Oh, thanks much.
Long Man Good.
Oh, there's a lot of people who hate...
The opening hour of this stream, you could check them out.
There's a lot of them.
Yeah, and frankly, you don't have to look way too far for that.
Uh, I hope you guys will check out Glidus.
Oh yes, I know that channel.
Game of Thrones piss takes honestly hilarious.
And you get a kick out of it.
Yeah, um, so G-L-I-D-U-S and his Game of Thrones videos.
They're good shit.
I am...
I believe I'm subscribed.
I feel like I haven't seen a video for a minute in a while.
I might not be, but yes, good stuff.
Check out.
Fun Batwoman fact.
Alice's actress compared her character to Walter White.
Citing they are both redeemable villains.
Oh my god.
Not even close, Alice.
Not even close.
I know.
I remember hearing a particularly bad take that somebody was comparing Daenerys to Walter White.
I'm like, no, maybe if Walter White just suddenly decided to murder his whole family
and didn't feel bad about it.
But that's not what happened, so fuck off.
We'll use their innocence against...
It's a weapon against me.
Good god.
Uh, next Disney crossover, Ouchi and the Dawn.
I'd watch it.
So see, now we don't know what Ouchi looks like.
So now I have to wonder who's going to, you know, bring Ouchi into being.
Ouchi, Ouchi, Ouchi, Ouchi.
These leaks sound all fine and dandy, but I have one question.
Where are the droidekas?
That is one of the dudes in Phantom Menace says that.
And yeah, the droidekas, they're gone, unfortunately, but not forgotten.
They are not forgotten, no.
Oh, what are you doing there, 3PO?
Taking one last look, sir, at my n-words.
Imagine being a guy cast as a Knight of Ren in 2014.
That's so shit.
Sweet, I'm in the new Star Wars movie.
I'm one of the Knights of Ren.
They fill me for one scene in Force Awakens,
but they told me that it's going to get fleshed out like crazy a few years later.
All right, we're in a movie.
We're in a transport, it gets blowed up.
I guess I survive.
I'm dead.
Okay.
Well, that was something.
Good stuff, guys.
Well, it's a paycheck.
Act one.
What's the point of the other acts?
Because sometimes you need more than one.
That's crazy.
Well, we were getting to the end of act one.
We thought the film would be wrapping up,
but we're like, oh no, this is only act one.
This film's going to be dense, dude.
Dense as fuck.
Mola, check your Twitter.
You're reading an outdated version of the leaks without the reshoots
taking into account.
So stuff like the dyad, the flashbacks are no longer there.
Oh my God, they're going to get rid of the dyad?
I can't believe it.
I'm not going to see it.
If there's no dyad, then they get no money.
That's betraying everything.
You got to have the dyad.
I love the dyad.
God.
Yeah.
Well, this is the thing.
That's why it's a win-win because ultimately we'll be surprised still
by what we see in the cinema, hopefully.
Ray uses the dark, dark, evil ways.
So she do's it.
I get it.
Dark, dark, evil ways.
Yeah, ha-doo's like Mountain Dew.
You can copy droid memory.
They did it in solo.
Well, of course you can.
You could transfer files from one hard drive to another.
I was going to say, it's not a shocking premise, is it?
Like, but the fact is that this movie seems to go like,
actually, we did make a copy.
L-L-L-L-L-L-C-3PO's fine.
It's just like, why did you tell us otherwise?
Also, R2 was there.
Is wasn't it?
He didn't say anything.
I don't know, man.
Also, we're saying this in fucking past tense,
like it happened.
Well, hasn't happened yet, but who knows?
By the way, can you hear me okay?
My Skype kind of, or my Skype, my Discord crap.
That's all right.
We were making fun of Star Wars.
A gut shot is infinitely worse than a headshot.
Chewie wanted Kylo to die in pain.
Can you imagine?
That's what Chewie says.
I shot him so he would die in pain.
Mauler, please read the updates.
The same guy you're reading now released the same stuff you're reading,
but he crosses out the parts that changed.
Intrigal parts of the story are read out or cut out
because Disney thinks audiences won't understand it.
Won't understand it?
It's not about understanding it.
Oh yeah, it's so fucking complex.
I understand full well what they're going for.
It's embarrassing.
This message is just Palpatine's Wi-Fi password lol.
I mean, could be.
It'll get you access to his files too.
His password for his computer.
It's got all of his different fetches on there,
but he doesn't want to talk about them.
We should leave him alone.
Mainly just defeat him is the goal.
Getting the Wi-Fi password is, what, like step three?
Getting there.
C-3PO, it's okay.
I've committed the message to memory, other guy.
I'll wipe his memory so he can read it.
What?
Won't you forget the message?
No, because he reads it
and then he has to get his memory wiped or something.
I got no idea how that's going to work.
I'll be very curious.
It would be better if after C-3PO says he's looking at his friends,
they show Force ghosts of Leia, Luke, and Han.
It wouldn't make much sense, but it would be better.
I like the theory that in his head,
he's like replaying images of the friends he actually has.
And he's not actually looking at the people in the room.
That's the canon I choose to accept, assuming this actually happens,
which seems like it probably will.
The Rule 34ers are going to have fun with this movie.
Any more so than usual, I guess.
There were tentacle creatures in The Force Awakens,
so I feel like that's the movie they would have had the most fun with.
What do I know?
Kylo, I see you eat a lot of corn.
I'm trying to drink a milkshake, you rat bastards.
I think that was when we were making the toilet jokes.
Star Destroyers were all crude by orphans.
That explains it.
Happy Sunday, you gaggle of SJW KKK members.
Wow.
Happy Sunday.
I mean, see Kyle.
Who's more likely to guest on Efap first, Bob Chipman or Jim Sterling?
I would say Bob.
I'm sorry, I was thinking...
At first, I was thinking, who would be more entertaining?
Who would I rather have, Bob?
I just want to pick his...
Yeah, I would rather have Bob.
But I think it would be much more likely to have Jim.
Yeah.
So there you go.
Star Wars is just a sequel to Lord of the Flies.
Very well.
A sequel to Lord of the Flies?
I mean, I don't see how, but...
I don't see how either.
You're gonna have to follow that one up, my dude,
because I don't see it.
Star Wars is a sequel?
Or a prequel?
It's a sequel.
Sequel.
Star Wars is a sequel to Lord of the Flies.
No.
What?
That's it.
Well, to be fair, it's only a sequel if you interpret it as such.
Ray Genocides Orphans?
Does Ray is based?
Ray Genocides Orphans?
Oh, yeah, yes.
Yeah, technically, yeah, yeah.
Yes, yeah, sure.
He does.
Begun, the orphan youngling wars have.
Oh, no.
They're kidnapping orphans.
Activate the dawn signal.
Look at this.
Shines his face in the sky.
Commence operation free candy.
The first order is an army...
Is an army autists.
It's supposed to be an army of autists.
Rumor has it that Kylo Ren real identity
will be revealed to be Onision
and that he's working under the orders of Jeffrey Snoke.
Ah.
Jeffrey Snoke.
Big twists coming, huh?
MGR's child soldier brains in adult cyborg bodies?
I remember that.
Ochi went back to his home planet and just died.
See, that's a joke, but like,
that's what's going to happen to Leia, apparently.
She just dies.
Yeah, they're just having a fight.
It's like, remember me?
I'm dying.
I'm dying.
It seems your princess is in another transport.
Gedelv voice.
Send more superchats.
It's free.
I'm noticing a lot of parent deadbeats in this.
Yes.
Lando sucks.
Han sucks.
Leia sucks.
Luke as a surrogate father slash teacher sucks.
I don't know, man.
That's a lot of tisms.
Remember when Buffy broke You Know Whose ribcage performing CPR?
That's the new Star Wars is.
JJ brutalizing the corpse of a beloved franchise
in a desperate and futile attempt at saving it.
I don't think he's trying to save it.
There's no evidence in there that he's trying to save Star Wars.
Check cinema about those Twitter.
He's apparently in favor of firing everyone even accused of sexual assault.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, my God.
I mean, if you kill everyone, no guilty people.
Why does not like, why doesn't that surprise me?
Like, because he's a psychopath who doesn't value human.
Immediately, I'm like, yeah, that's probably his take.
Oh, well, oh, yeah.
Well, guess what, Bob?
10 years ago, you sexually assaulted me in a bathroom.
So get up against the wall.
Oh, God.
And he'll accuse the officer arresting him of assaulting him.
But that officer loses his job.
And it's just an infinite stretch.
But yeah, weird rags.
Like, in just a moment, you've shown that it could possibly be manipulated.
Manipulated.
Man, I had to flex my galaxy brain muscles there.
Took a long time, but you managed to prove the point.
Nice.
Clean your room.
Do it.
All right.
I think he's referring to Palpatine and all the kids.
Please cover OSP's trope talk on eFap.
OSP's trope talk?
Overly sarcastic productions, I think that is.
But which one?
There's like a load of them.
I don't know if any of them are particularly tismy or agreeable.
Um, maybe both.
Palpatine had plenty of concubines in Legends EU.
Is that even a possible question?
We knew that was happening.
He was creaming and sheathing all over the place, man.
Every day, every day, a whole crew would come in with mops and buckets to the.
They would just don't get all over the side into the shaft.
So.
Why won't Discord let me curse in super chats?
I mean, I figured they would let you.
Well, I guess it's tears.
You could probably say naughty words, but not too naughty words.
Or naughty.
You get what I mean.
Have y'all watched Arrow?
Seasons one, two, and five are fantastic.
Better than Batwoman for sure.
Being better than Batwoman is not hard.
No bar.
And I've heard Arrow is the best one out of all of them at its best.
That's at least what people seem to be saying.
But holy shit, I do not have a good impression of the CW,
just as a production sort of channel-y thing.
Like, I wouldn't trust anything coming out of them, basically.
This is from Creamy Sheave himself.
It's true.
My name comes from the way I make women cream their pants
at the sight of my wrinkly, creamy, lightning shooty dangus.
They're quite shocked.
The way that rolled off your tongue was fantastic.
It felt right.
Someone linked this.
The CEO of FedEx has just challenged the New York Times business section editor to a public debate.
Over what?
Apparently, the New York Times published a distorted and factually incorrect story on
the front page of the Sunday, November 17th edition concerning FedEx
and our billions of dollars of tax payments and billions of dollars of investment in the U.S.
economy.
I hereby challenge A.G. Salzberger, publisher of the New York Times and the business section
editor to a public debate in Washington, D.C. with me and the FedEx corporate vice president of tax.
The focus of the debate should be federal tax policy and the relative societal benefits of
business investments and the enormous intended benefits to the U.S. economy,
especially lower and middle class wage earners.
I look forward to promptly hearing from Mr. Salzberger and rescheduling this open event
to bring further public awareness of the facts related to these important issues.
Oh, I can't I can't believe there's a FedEx New York Times face off.
This is amazing.
Do it, I guess.
I want companies to openly hate each other.
Do it, do it.
Star Wars MacGuffins and Convenience Edition.
Best quests in MacGuffins.
Are you describing TFA or Rise of Skywalker?
Or the newest Fallout game.
C3PO is now the one fish that loses his TV show because of crabs realizing he's not dead.
I didn't watch enough SpongeBob to get the reference.
Oh, what?
It's referencing a scrunch SpongeBob episode.
Scrunch.
Scrunch"
Boom!
Oh no
You try pinching that.
Scrunch
I'm screwing Bob's square ball.
Screwed Bob, where's the mayonnaise?
This is from Creamy Sheev again.
No, no, you will cream.
Sheev gidius pal paspunk.
Epsteinius didn't just kill himself, he did.
That's like a Harry Potter spell.
In the immortal words of Mike Stoklasa,
Endless trash.
Endless trash.
This is gonna be great.
Trash forever, folks.
The Wayfinder, if they don't play the
Is This the Way to Amarillo song during the film,
they won't.
They're not that cool.
This is what I mean by like, if Go Full Memes,
I'd totally do that, I'd involve that.
Wakemeup.mp3, yeah.
This is where the super chat is starting to accept
how terrible this script is.
Relaxing watching football and efapping, yes.
Alright, yeah, good stuff.
Hey, Moeller, have you read the Revenge of the Sith book
by Matthew Stover or listened to the audiobook?
If you haven't, definitely try the audiobook.
The voice acting from Jonathan Davis is fantastic.
Jonathan Davis is...
What's the guy in Game of Thrones, right?
He was the High Sparrow or is that Jonathan something else?
High Sparrow.
Jonathan something.
Jonathan, let's have a look.
Jonathan Davis, American Singer.
This is not who I was thinking of.
American Singer, yeah.
Well, I mean, yeah, I'm sure it is neat.
Maybe I'll check it out one day, perhaps.
No, Jonathan...
Oh, Jonathan Price is the guy I was thinking of
and Gimli is John Rhys Davies, so.
Mm-hmm.
Jonathan Hyde.
Yeah, there's a lot of Jonathan's out there.
Hello, all my fellow Jebusits.
Jebusits?
Jebusites?
Jebusites?
I would have accepted Jebutons.
Jebutons.
Jebudites.
Hello, everyone.
Hi, Rags.
Hi, Moeller.
Hello.
So, Wolf, my love.
Will do and hello.
Kylo has become less threatening than Team Rocket.
Who?
Kylo's become less threatening than Team Rocket.
He just...
Kylo Redd is blasting off again.
He literally falls in a fucking chasm and then a little light goes ding.
And he shouts that on his way down.
Oh, Jebusits.
Looks like Kylo Redd's blasting off again.
Jebusits.
That makes sense, actually.
Rey is Gretchen Thunberg's older sister.
Change my mind.
I'm not going to want to change your mind.
Sounds about right.
Han shows up to talk to Kylo.
Luke doesn't.
Anakin doesn't.
Rey is saved by Luke.
Kylo isn't.
Hollywood needs to be genocided and women barred from working.
Oh, my goodness.
By that ending, you might be able to guess who that was.
Toxic Broods.
Yes, it was Jeb.
Toxic Broods reading of episode 9 is light years more entertaining than the movie will ever be.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello!
I'd like to believe that.
Yeah, I mean, if we had the script as released, we probably would have way more fun reading
that out than actually going to see the movie.
Yeah, we've got competitive shitting.
Retard Stormtroopers.
I mean, come on, dude.
Best part of New Star Wars?
Domal Gleeson.
The actor who plays Hux.
He's been neat.
I mean, I think he's a great actor on his own.
It's just that Hux is kind of one note.
Shouty, shouty, shouty.
You know?
So here's the thing.
When we did our...
We did our big...
Oh, we didn't...
Did we ask...
PK?
Was that his name in here?
I forget his name.
His name was Ryan, and yes, I asked him the question.
Okay, good, good, good.
He went with Finn.
He went with Finn.
I just want to point out that I think it's only me and one other person who's said Hux.
Robot head.
Robot head and myself.
So, I'm telling you, man, we...
No, you definitely is strong contender.
It's going to be tough to beat it.
People don't think about Hux.
I was like, hmm, hmm.
I mean, it was a good choice.
Because what you could have ended up with was them just making him general, general man,
and then he just gets killed in an explosion, and that's it.
Like, that could have happened, but instead they've gone with this nonsense.
It's like, okay.
Beginning to think Ryan Johnson actually wrote this.
Well, JJ here doesn't exactly do a great job with TFA, so...
YouTube is letting me do this.
Praise our overlords.
Yes, praise.
Praise Google.
Thoughts on writing apocalypse fantasy stories?
Tips on writing apocalypse fantasy stories?
No, just thoughts.
Thoughts?
So, apocalypse fantasy.
So, like an apocalypse in a world that's actually made up.
So, I'm sorry, is this question thoughts on an apocalypse fantasy story?
Well, so the question is, thoughts on writing apocalypse fantasy stories?
When they say fantasy...
I mean, go for it.
I mean...
You kind of have that in a...
I guess Dark Souls is kind of that.
Dark Souls is sort of like that.
But yeah, just add a...
But basically just go with like a post-apocalyptic kind of world.
And you could...
If you want to start off with a blueprint in your head for, you know, to keep things together,
you can start out with like a fallout or something like that.
And then remove the things you don't like and maybe ground it in other ways.
And then maybe add like small elements.
Make it like a...
Use like a low magic fantasy setting.
A Witcher would be a fairly good kind of idea for that where mages and stuff,
they're not very common, but they're like a big deal.
You know, they're very powerful and important, you know, that sort of thing.
And then kind of insert those into a post-apocalyptic thing.
And maybe you can say that due to an explosion at a facility that happened to cause the world to go bad, bad.
Radiation mixed with a certain machine, blah, blah, blah.
To create a genetic mutation that blah, blah, blah.
And certain blah, blah, blah telekinesis.
So you can do something like that, you know.
Don't try to explain it, but just lightly refer to it every once in a while, you know.
Or maybe the magic has really started to go out of the world and a lot of people put too much reliance on it.
And then now people are starving to death and dying in droves or something like that.
Because they put too much faith in magic?
Put too much reliance on magic and now the magic is kind of fading out of the world.
People are dying by the truckload.
Maybe. I know Borderlands has the Siren thing going on.
Where it's rare, very, very rare.
About being able to have powerful abilities, something like that.
But yeah, focus on, you know, you go post-apocalypse, I like kind of realistic stuff.
A lot of character. A lot of moral choices.
And a lot of, do we do, where do we go?
What do we do?
How do we divvy up resources?
You know, what does our faction need us to do?
Do we have to go to, you know, really, really stress the whole abandoned complex idea?
Fuck it, put it, set it in the USSR kind of area.
I don't have to actually be in the USSR, but you know, those kind of thematics and stuff like that.
I mean, this is the thing for me, apocalypse fantasy, it's like, holy shit, that's broad.
There could be a whole bazillion different things that could be going on.
All sorts of stuff. All sorts of stuff.
There's also just general writing advice versus specific.
Because what comes with writing believable apocalypse-style societies versus what is believable fantasy-style societies,
and then combine that, and you're like, oh, geez.
But I would be intrigued nonetheless in a story that was, premise was a fantasy world in which an apocalypse had taken place.
And this is a result. I'd be like, oh my goodness, so much to absorb.
Yeah, it's like we said, Dark Souls is a perfect example. That world is fucked.
Yeah, just a little bit, a little bit.
JJ should go back to doing what he does best, lens flares.
I guarantee you we'll get a shit ton of them in this movie.
To balance the Force, a lot of children have to be killed.
For example, a Jedi temple worth of younglings, or an army of mentally six-year-olds.
Hi, Rex.
Hey.
Yeah.
The X-Wing is broken, she Force flies it, obviously.
Yeah, she uses the Force to keep it together, and she uses the Force to fly it to where she needs to go.
Oh my gosh.
Makes total sense.
Chekhov's X-Wing.
In the final scene, Rey and Kylo are beaten by Palpatine.
Then Mikey Spark appears in her Iron Man suit to create the stars.
Then Lady Triu appears and shows them all they've been trapped on end or end.
I don't know what the fuck just happened when I read that.
Fighting and brave.
I am not drunk enough for this. I don't know if I could ever be drunk enough for this.
Yeah, I know that feeling.
Don't try it.
It was getting exhausting after a while, I'm gonna tell you.
It was like, and then, and then, and then.
Yeah.
Like, oh my god, stop.
Where's my Force Ghost Qui-Gon been this whole time?
No, he doesn't care. He's out. He's chilling. He's on like a beach somewhere.
Yeah.
At this point, Starkiller should just be made canon to kill Maraisu, an emo descendant after being trained by Palpatine.
Starkiller would be refreshing. He would just kill them all.
And then he still couldn't beat Rey.
Oh no, he'd never be able to beat Rey. She's godlike.
What if JJ leaked the script so that he could have people proofread it for him?
There was the, we barely fucking proofread that. We just laughed at it all.
He's not gonna find it very useful for him.
He's been, he's been listening this whole time. He's like, all right everybody, start over.
Six million star destroyers. That's an interesting number.
I mean, I don't think he's gonna have six million star destroyers, you know what I'm saying?
That's a lot of star destroyers. I don't know if they can, I don't, I just don't think they can handle that kind of, you know, tonnage.
If Vader couldn't betray Luke because they're family, then what was Kylo's excuse?
When he killed Han, yeah.
I hope that's not a line in the movie. It's like, of course I should have expected this. They're fabbly. It's like, what the fuck?
Look what you're doing to Rey. She's your fabbly.
Yeah, great.
Have any of you seen YouTube original show Impulse?
Team drama based on the movie Jumper.
Should be garbage, but it's actually exceptional from episode one.
Never heard of it.
Jumper was a teleporting one, right?
Well, this is spelled Jumper without an E, like Jumper.
Oh, fuck off.
Well, I don't know if that's the same thing or not, is all I'm saying.
I don't even know.
Could be something else. Yeah, Tinder.
Well, if something else is called Jumper and you want to be called Jumper, you can cut out the E and then you could be a cool new Jumper.
Okay.
You don't save any syllables.
Yeah, but that's the point, right? You can get spelled differently.
People, people probably will take longer to spell it because they have to remind themselves to actively not press E.
You know, if they do, they have to go back and change it.
They're in the R next to each other, but you just want to, hmm.
They're just pulling force abilities out their ass now.
They were doing that the whole time.
It's nothing new, nothing new.
What's Growler?
Oh, the gay bear social network.
Hey.
Oh, I might want to sign up for this shit and find myself a hot bear daddy.
If Palpatine survived Return of the Jedi, what the fuck was Snoke?
I don't know.
There's going to be a throwaway line for Snoke, apparently.
I will be gluing them ears to the speakers at that point in the film.
I swear to God.
They turned into a shy from Samurai Jack finale.
They turned him into a shy.
And I have an Arkansas, so they'd be a bunch of like fucking redneck types.
I have not seen Samurai Jack, unfortunately.
They kill Kylo by throwing in.
They kill Kylo by throwing him down a hole.
Yeah.
How do you feel about that, Ra?
Kylo's defeated by a hole.
It wasn't from a roof.
Yeah.
Thrown off a roof into a hole.
That's the ultimate death for Ra.
It's just a little shack built next to the hole.
Just waiting for the day he could toss somebody off of it.
Can I sue Disney for filling my head with such nonsense if I end up getting brain cancer?
I think I can, because by the look of it, anything's possible.
Yeah.
You could sue people for all kinds of things.
You could probably try and find a way.
Finale of EFAP season five?
I think we're on season four, so...
I don't know where the finale of season four would be, actually.
I feel like this is the mid-season, the Jenny thing.
The Jenny stream was the end of season four part one,
and this is the beginning of season four part two.
It seems to make sense to me.
Ghost help is literally from Harry Potter.
Well, I mean...
Ghost help.
Ghost help.
Like that's a thing that is typically understood.
Harry Potter probably did not come up with the idea of the spirits of the dead helping mortals.
That's like your opinion, Rags.
It is my opinion.
The Leia Luke thing has been cut.
Instead, she hears every Jedi ever giving her a pep talk and then Rey gets a power boost.
That's still terrible.
Every Jedi ever.
Mace Windu.
This is the sub-Jedi is supposed to give an inspiring quote,
and they didn't know.
They would just chill it out their own way.
So you hear, like, you can do it, Rey.
Like, believe in yourself.
And then, wait, what the fuck's going on?
That's just one of the lights.
Wait, what's happening?
Is Snoke explained in any way, or how do they know Sidious is the last?
And won't the Force just rebalance in more dark side?
Yeah, yes, all of this, yes.
Yes.
Yes, it's all dumb.
Also when they die, that's just not even the end of the battle.
That's just going to be Force Ghosts fighting Force Ghosts.
And then when they die, who fucking knows?
At this point, it would make more sense for Sans from Smash Bros. to appear as a Force Ghost at the end and tell a pun so unbearable that everyone's head explodes like in the movie Scanners.
That's the guy who celebrates Sans being in Smash Bros. every stream.
And this time he used it to try and suggest a better ending to the film.
I appreciate that.
And you know what, I think it even works.
Oh, great.
Yet another evil empire.
What else can you do in Star Wars?
I like that because Rich Evans has been saying that for a while.
It's like they followed his plan of, you know, like they had to do all this stuff.
It's like, but everyone hates it.
Well, I say that like, I just don't agree.
There's all there's a bajillion things you could do in this galaxy in this universe.
I wonder if we asked him that today, if he would still stand by it because his point was he actually thought about it.
His point was less to do with whether or not you can do it.
It was more that whether or not people will go out and see it, right?
Because you remember they develop it into like, who is it going to blow up?
And then he's like, nobody would blow up in this theoretical like story about a different thing.
And then he's like, well, then it's not it's not going to work.
And I just like to think that like you could have had a Mandalorian movie.
That could have been Disney's first one.
And it's just solely about this brand new character.
I feel like that would have done well.
Yeah, that's what I said.
That's the one that would be the hardest for them to fuck up because it would just be you don't have to have characters or good writing.
It could just be a bounty hunter doing bounty hunter stuff and just being a badass of it.
And then you have another big job about this person doing a thing.
And what I'm trying to advocate for here is you easily could have had your stupid money grubbing MCU of Star Wars.
You could have had all these different characters doing all these different things.
And then big budget, crazy movie where they all cross paths and some epic thing.
I mean, that could have.
Yeah, I mean, even if it was nothing but them once every once in a while, there'd be a confrontation between them or they'd meet up or they'd have to cooperate or maybe fight.
You know, I mean, man, that would be that would be nifty.
The universe is perfect for it, but they just don't have the talent to do it, I guess.
And who knows what we're going to get coming forward now.
They keep stumbling all over the place.
We shall see episode seven.
Episode seven, they shot themselves in the foot.
Episode eight, they cut off their legs.
Episode nine, they swallow a grenade and triple flip into a pool of lava.
I agree with that.
This is on par with Samurai Jax for Dali.
No ball.
Oh, wow.
I guess if that's the second reference, it must be quite close.
Don willing.
Episode nine is the end for Kathleen Kennedy.
Who knows?
Who knows?
I'm all I'm sad.
I'm getting to the point in my life where I need to choose a career path.
I want to be an artist, but that seems slim.
I could really use some words of comfort.
Words of comfort.
Having an artist?
Well, interestingly, there's a lot of artists, but at the same time, there's a lot of artists who stand out, who make their own, you know, make their own way, who have their own unique styles.
Yeah.
And oftentimes when you feel a little lost on in terms of like what a career the career is going to end up being sort of like it's I mean, in my situation, it was it just it was just pursuing the thing you love doing that it turned out to actually be able to be monetized in one way, shape or form.
I don't know if that's applicable to what you're after, but it could be.
Maybe focus on a more traditional job and then transition slowly but surely into art as your job.
Get a little thing here, get something there, you know, put more effort to it in here, do more work in it there, do more hours to it there slowly but surely, you know, turn, go from one, you know, one thing is a money source to the other thing is a money.
Yeah, like you can, if you end up with a job you don't like and know you won't pursue but it is bringing you in money, just use your use your time that remains to focus on that thing you want to do want to be.
A lot of people end up doing that for the most part, I'd say that's what turning a hobby into something that can make money is definitely something everyone likes to try and find a way to do to a degree.
Spread out on the kinds of art, maybe don't just stick with art, maybe learn some animation, that sort of thing, you know, so that you could increase the amount of skills so that you can use your art in tandem with video creation with animation with graphic design and stuff along those lines to put it all together and kind of create your own sort of thing.
You know, make get more skills you know broaden what you can actually do, build up your portfolio say I could do this this this and this.
Surprise ending Vader also survived collects the lightsaber pieces Ray left on Tatooine and swears vengeance on the woman who usurped his son.
Oh, if you want to make Oh, I'll just be frank, I don't I can't believe I didn't think about this for earlier. If you want to make it as an artist be just draw furry porn.
I mean, I'm just I'm just I'm gonna be flat out fucking honest with you man just draw furry porn for people that some people make a shit ton of money drawing furry porn.
Well, he's not wrong. It's a crazy industry out there.
Just tell your parents that you do commission work for private interests. Yeah, custom pieces. Yeah.
But yeah, assholes for living the idea of Vader surviving, by the way, it's like, give them time. Give them time. Vader will come back probably.
He's gonna be trying to bring Vader back as much as fucking can. Only my second live efap. Thanks for the good times boys. Hey, no problemo.
Yeah, so she does commit identity theft. Technically. Yeah, sort of. I mean, it's certainly gonna cause confusion. Also, that's where we're at in the super chats. We're at the end of the leaks in the super chats now.
Oh, wow. Yeah. Holy diver. You've been down too long of the desert fair sans rough course and it gets everywhere. Look out. No, no.
Was that did that rhyme?
Fair everywhere. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's clever. Just hearing the leaks makes me physically ill. No.
Yeah, it makes me physically.
Lots of emotion.
Resigned in just grudging acceptance of this terrible fate that's befallen this franchise. This could be the one that breaks the dentist. Like even they've had too much of this now. It's like it's like watching your best friend drive away for the last time.
My Jeb fell over trying to understand all the tism. It's like being at your uncle's funeral where you didn't know him really like that. Well, you weren't that close, but you're still sad.
And you can see all of the other sad people around you. And really, that's more impactful than the actual, you know, funeral part is. That's kind of what reading Star Wars leaks is like. And then the casket bursts into flames.
The flames and the body spills out. The casket falls on top of it just explodes.
So wait, is everybody like Gandalf? Yes, everyone can return and we'll return and nobody can die. Okay. It's just how it works. And everyone knows it'll be his force. I love the fact that he says Leia hasn't figured out how to be a force ghost yet, but Han Solo did.
Han Solo's completed his Jedi training. He was secretly training. Freshly squeezed Rhino milk for everyone, even J.
You know how some people have guitar lessons? Well, Han Solo took force lessons. And every week on Tuesday, he took four ghost lessons. He knew he was going to die.
He's like, I don't want to learn how to, like, pick up stools and shit. No, no, I just want to, when I die, I want to be a force ghost.
Well, if you found out that that was a thing, you might be like, I mean, sure. Sounds kind of interesting. At will, I can manifest myself and control the world. And I never age. And I have all power, almost like superpowers.
Think of all the stuff that you could do for the world. Absolutely. And you wouldn't get, like, tired, I guess, because you don't have a body.
You imagine a force ghost being like, oh, I'm a bit tired. It's like, what?
You can just go anywhere, too. You don't need a ride. Just teleport.
Wait, why did it? So, no, but a man said you take the lesson after you die.
When you die, you got a force ghost purgatory and then all of the force ghosts there teach you how to proper force operate.
I mean, that's, yeah, because I was going to say that's even worse.
Makes even less sense.
Also, high rags.
Hey, that's from Bill Biggidius Bagificus.
When did Palpatine become as dumb as Eggman from Sonic Adventure 2 in his plans to blow up Earth in order to create his empire stadium?
I don't know about the thoughts that go through this person's mind.
Maybe he's grown senile and old when his brain got reassembled. All the atoms didn't quite fit together, so he's a little retarded now.
That's why he's just indiscriminately shooting force lightning at the sky.
None of the Sith followers have the heart to say, oh, it's getting old. He's getting old.
He's getting old, and I guess I know Darth Asmodeus or whatever your name is. I know it's just one of those things.
Hey, Mola, how about the YouTuber Rebel Taxi? I have never heard of them.
No idea.
Me neither.
Who has watched Red vs. Blue?
I have watched Red vs. Blue many years ago.
Yes, me too.
I watched a lot of the seasons a long time ago. I don't remember a lot of it now.
This is what life is now, sad face.
Pretty much.
With Dark Fate, Game of Thrones, and The Predator, these were all things where I was like, this isn't true yet.
It still might not be.
But it was.
So I think this is just another one of them. This is going to be true, guys.
We're in the nice stage where it isn't true yet.
It will be, though.
Dask, could you make a nutshell vid of this movie in Gmod? Also, where did... Oh wait, I guess there's multiple questions.
So nutshell vid of this movie in Gmod.
Yeah, it'll be easy.
Yeah.
Yeah, this movie, yeah.
No, yeah, no problem. 20 minutes. It'll only take me about another 20 minutes. Good to go.
Also, where did Rose go? Is she dead?
Yeah.
Oh, no, no, no, no. Rose is a fucking general.
I guess she really died from a coma in the last film. No, she'll be around.
If it's a year, I can't I can't believe she went from nobody to general in a year.
Wasn't she like engineering commander or some shit like that?
I don't know, man.
We don't have to wait until they tell us exactly what it is.
We're going to get there. It's going to happen.
It's going to happen.
Hey, guys. Got my date for USAF January 28th.
So a few more months of eFap. Thank you all so much for being amazing and inspirational.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Yeah, good stuff, man.
Please tell me Chewie's not dead. Vinny did end better.
No, Chewie's fine. They're going to bait his death, though. It's going to be funny.
This is the end game of female social empowerment, education and suffrage.
Everything you know and love repaid and sacrificed on the altar of equity by corporations that enslave people around the world
to make them purchase their products and tar and feather all dissidents who challenge their authority.
Remember that these corporations run literal slave farms around the world to manufacture your clothes, shoes, electronics, even your chocolate with no compunction.
Soy's who worship and defend them should be shot.
How are you going with shooting this time? No rooftop. All right.
And then just a super child says, I love it.
I'm baffled. Thanks for the stream.
This sadly makes T.L.J. a better ending to Star Wars than what episode nine has to offer.
Yes.
T.L.J. alone would be a better ending if what happens in those leaks happens.
Episode nine will be more gay than debates. Oh, my God.
Pretty gay, dude. I need a hug. Oh, this is after all the leaks. Everyone's really sad.
So a force goes fighting directly equals if the armies of the dead took out Sauron after saving Gondor.
I mean, yeah, to a degree. That would have been awkward in Lord of the Rings if they had just said, I will release you if you go and kill Sauron.
And the ghosts just pour over his tower like fucking ants. And he's like, ah, stop it.
If these leaks are real and they most definitely are, then Rise of Skywalker will make the Amazing Spider-Man 2 look coherent by comparison.
I will say the plot of this film looks utterly insane if the leaks are to be believed just with how busy it seems to be.
Like people are moving. They are grooving. They are jetting here and they're they are getting shit done.
Also, we have 40 minutes remaining. And I don't know if we're going to be able to make it. We will try.
Doom. All right. This is probably for the best. It'll be ugly, but hopefully this will kill Star Wars and lay it to rest. No, I doubt it. No, it'll keep going. No, it won't.
You're going to see Knives Out by Rian Johnson. I'm not going to go see it now. I will wait until it comes out.
While this movie sounds like absolute garbage and I will despise it and its many inevitable defenders, really enjoying this season of Efap. Efap season four, we're going to need a taller roof.
Yes. The amount of things we've thrown off the roof are starting to act as a bungee for the thing. Well, like a trampoline sort of for the people we're throwing next to just land on it like.
I'm just looking for killing him anymore. There's just two bodies, just too many bodies down there. The bodies soften the new bodies. Yeah, that's what I was going for.
Razor Fist is missing out by not seeing Joker. Yeah. Everyone should see it. Everybody. Why are you not seeing Joker?
I don't know if he's got some kind of position against it or something. There's a reason that it's becoming a billion dollar R rated movie.
Almost every male hero has been shirtless at some point in the MCU, but God forbid women can be sexy too. No, that's objectifying them with men. It's just fine.
This film is going to be worse than Star Whims 2 Attack of the Pleasure Pods. Look that up. It's a real thing. There isn't Star Whims one. There's no Star Whims one, but there's a Star Whims two. Okay.
I'm sorry for giving money to Disney for TFA, Rogue One and TLJ. I'll never do it again. I promise, but Bane Dades don't fix AIDS and AIDS kills you like Disney killed Star Wars.
I laugh because I must not cry. That is all. That is all. I will never buy anything connected to Disney ever again. Get fucked surveillance capitalism.
Star Whims 2 is a real thing, yeah. What do you mean by worse? I don't know what that's referring to exactly. I'm afraid. Also from Weekend Warrior, I hate copper lads. That's the thing about the kid's restriction thing, right?
I wouldn't have thought he would get in Weekend Warrior's way too much. I wouldn't have thought he would consider his stuff kid's content. But yeah, if it's getting in the way of shit, sure.
What do you think about the writing in Red Dead Redemption 2?
I'm going to be honest with you. I have not played that one yet. I'm just kind of waiting. I'm not the kind of person that really is interested in the Wild West sort of things, neither in movies or games. That's just kind of a personal preference for me. And if I'm going to try it, I'm going to wait for PC.
I just want to play it, but I haven't gone around to it.
Yeah, apparently it's busted right now, so we've got to wait for it to fix.
Great.
Okay. Sorry, what do you think about it?
I don't know what that's referring to specifically.
There's an argument to be made for that, for sure.
Probably 60% of the reasoning for some of the stupidest decisions.
But that wouldn't make sense, because they bring back characters that people who were six years old couldn't be invested in, you know? It's like, what are you doing?
Ray kills Palpatine. How is there any doubt? Did you ever imagine hearing that statement?
No. So like, picture watching The Force Awakens all the way back then, and having someone tell you, Ray will kill Palpatine.
Yeah. You're all like, okay.
It's funny because I would immediately be like, oh, clone? Or like, some kind of, you know, some kind of thing.
Like, it's not going to be the thing. No, it's the thing. I'd be like, oh.
Is it solely about money and politics? Is it really the only reason they are purposefully destroying iconic licenses? I need an answer, please.
The answer is yes. I mean, I'd happily throw incompetence.
Oh, yeah. If they, I think it's incompetence, too. Like, I don't think they're purposefully doing it. They just think that this is how you're supposed to do it. This is the only way they can think of doing it.
Yeah. This is from JJ Chica. JJ Abrams is an embarrassment to JJ's everywhere.
It's true. I'm absolutely going 80-20 Rise of Skywalker because it's fresh. JJ is a master of polishing turds. Ryan outright shoved fistful of shit into everyone's faces.
I think that's about the poll. The script sounds like Brett Keene wrote it. You would do a better job.
Which shall be worse, TLJ or Rise of Skywalker? Well, TLJ successfully destroyed the characters we knew and loved and the new characters we didn't care about. But Rise of Skywalker destroys the entire arc and purpose of the whole six movies. Rise of Skywalker wins.
I thought they already did that at this point. They kind of did it a bit with TLJ, too. Yeah, this is the thing, though. Palpatine coming back is a big deal.
It's a big fuck you to the OT.
So it killed all the characters and then this this movie basically kicks all the corpses. Metal metal was in this stream. We were doing it earlier. He's just woken up and said morning.
Hello, battle. That's Jeb Nichols to you, longest and ragumist. Oh, sorry. It is Jeff Nichols. Anyone who likes Rise of Skywalker, I assume they washed upside down in a seat with pants over their head, shoes on their hands and shits on their feet while shoving popcorn into their bung.
You don't want to shove popcorn into your bung. No. Yeah. What do you guys think of the new Sonic redesign? Also, love you rags.
No, thank you very much. That's trying to be to say I think the new Sonic looks great. Yeah, looks really good. Yeah, I'm fine with it myself. I got no problems. I'd be curious what fans think if they're OK with it. Then yeah, go for it.
Oh, it seems it's unanimous that everybody really likes it. That old thing was a horrifying creature. Oh, my God.
Hey, Mola, can I ask a girl to be my girlfriend tomorrow? What should I say? In what manner should I present her with the McMuffin? Also, hi, rags.
Hello. See, for me, it's hyper contextual. Depends on the girl. Rags, do you have any general presentation advice with McMuffins for girlfriends?
How should you present your McMuffin to your girlfriend? It's your potential girlfriend. You want this person to be your girlfriend.
It depends. Are you like strangers or do you know each other? I'm going to assume that they probably know each other. And he's just trying to like, you know, move it up to the next level. Move it up. Move it on up in there.
I mean, it depends on how it depends on what your relationship is like now. But be personable. Be just it's hard to put into words, I guess. Surprising how much honesty pays off. Yeah, just be honest and be forthright. Don't be too blunt, though.
And just be a I guess it's kind of the best way to sort of put it. Don't be like, like, dull, blunt, you know, but be be forthcoming and, you know, be honest and be complimentary. Listen, be funny.
We got some advice in chat. First one is just say Lemmy Smash. That's one option. Another is muffin her bungus and tell her she's beautiful.
OK, don't be too don't be too cliche, I guess. Don't likely like you don't want to come across as if you're following a script you read somewhere.
But I mean, that's the thing. Not all gals are the same. That's the old girl says bring flowers. There you go. It kind of depends. It was what I said hyper specifically depends on the girl. It really is. Yeah, it really does depend on the girl.
Yeah, some gals take flowers. Some guys take flowers as trying too hard. So, yeah. Take that bitch to the zoo.
You always recommend that that's actually not a bad idea. Take take that bitch to the zoo.
There's a long time for you to be together. There's plenty of opportunities for you to look at things and not like super focus on her. So if you ever need to just pause and think of stuff to say, you can always look.
It's not like you're sitting there awkwardly at a table together. You know, you're walking around and looking at stuff and there's a lot of things to ask her about. You know, what do you think about this? What do you think about that? You comment on things that you see and see what she says. And it's not expensive either.
And if she hates animals, then you know to ditch her. So yeah, bitches love animals. And if they don't, they're evil. Absolutely. And plus it gives you and then if you go when you are afterwards, it will always give you a fallback.
So if you ever run out of things to talk about, then you could always talk. Oh, yeah, that's right. We just went to the zoo and all the stuff that, you know, was there.
Chick chicks like guys who like animals. I have spoken. Yeah, I know that reference.
Free super chat. So take the money you'll be owed after consuming no chat. Take them to the zoo is not ragspeak for banging. Take him to the zoo.
But it should be free super chat. So take the money you'll be owed after consuming the clumsy handling of these space wizards intended for Patrick's in Rise of Skywalker.
Jeb was running in the running behind the dawn, only she tripped up trying to find the theme and time magazines. Oh, Jeb, obviously, Jebby in that case.
You're right, more like twenty four bad fifty eight hours is more like you. All your jobs fifty eight fifty eight. Okay. All your jobs are belong to us. That is an old meme, but it checks out.
She's trying to say send jabs or boxes. Wait, she's trying to say she's trying to say send jabs or boxes gets it. Oh, yeah, it was when I was when I noticed the little boxes in the background.
I mean, it didn't look like. All right. You just racist to puppets. I don't know, man. I'm sorry. I know what I saw, dude.
Hey, guys, I'm sorry about how awful the leaks are. I hope you guys have a good time ripping the movie to shreds. P.S. all hail the magnificent doggo.
Oh, hey, all. Trying to drink whiskey, but I'm laughing too hard at the leaks. Cheaper by the jibbled. Someone please make this with Jeb and tonal does their little Jeblins cheaper.
This is more of a request for chat. Can you spam kick J for a meme I'm making? All right, you've got your orders. I will say this is this is the late shift for chat. I don't know if they can rile up enough enough enthusiasm to kick J.
You'd think they would. Oh, rags has gotten its time. There you go. I like how metal said I'm effapping in public. Is that legal?
Kiss J. There you go. J, you've been getting real healthy here. Kylo didn't kill himself.
That's not raw. There's no rooftop. Oh, actually, the sun god is a hawkman, not a squid. True. But you said it was like a hillbilly squid thing, that drawing, I guess. Oh, this is the meme.
Squidbillies. Squidbillies. Yeah. Why does everyone think Jesus died on a cross? Ra threw him off a roof. Oh, okay. Big disavow on that last super chat. Ra did not throw Jesus off a roof.
We have won the great Twitter war of the 2019 long men. Oh, yes. It was a glorious day.
Ra is like the doctor, but a roof instead of the TARDIS. His roof can take him anywhere. Yeah. No video made meme. Sad face. Next time, possibly. No blast for me on my watch. That being said, yes, I think the wing demons is a good look versus Chad aesthetic.
Egyptian. So we get the cultural context for roof tossing and a cosmic connection to the cosmic chicken by way of Horace. Oh, Ra's thought this through.
I've got more money to throw at you, Molly. You didn't get to my last super chat yesterday. Here are the questions. Why, you know, excite for Elden Ring. Ewoks. Oh, wait. So I don't know what Elden Ring is. That's probably why. I'm not excited for that. Do you guys know what Elden Ring is? Not a clue.
All right. Ewoks or Gungans. I prefer Ewoks, but Gungans seem to have better technology. So, you know, it's tough. But in terms of company, probably Gungans because they can speak better English.
There's a lot of different things to take into consideration. What are the objective floors with Return of the Jedi? There's a whole bunch in the opening half an hour in terms of what the hell was the good guy's plans.
And then there's these other things. But I mean, that would probably be the main focus I would have in looking into it again. But I'd need to really go through it. It is a very confusing opening plan.
This channel is now approved for Imperial Citizens. Excellent. Also, we now have about 15 minutes.
Going to have to try and speed it up. Hello, Muller & Co. Also, Hi Rags. Could y'all tell us some deep lore you might know from your favorite franchises slash IPs?
Deep lore?
Deep lore. From your favorite franchises or IPs?
Let me see. Deep lore.
Give me a second to think about that one moment.
Got some Hot Pockets.
I mean, a lot of the ones are going to be stuff we already talked about because like Star Wars is not really doable. Game of Thrones is not.
I guess. OK, here's here's here's the thing.
The I believe this is how it goes. But Tywin's dad, Tytos, despite having the lion as the sigil for their family, was on a walk in some way.
So once he was attacked by a lion in the sort of countryside and terrified of it and running away from it.
And then a man saved him. And it's like a super embarrassing thing to have happen because obviously sigil and a guy saving with two hounds.
I think it was. And it was the Clegane family. And that's why they've been so closely connected with the Lannisters.
I remember looking into that at some point. So that's the thing.
And then, yeah, Rax said he's going to think about it, I guess.
I don't I don't have a heck of a heck of a lot to contribute to that conversation because like a lot of a lot of what I look into like I don't focus on a lot of TV shows and stuff.
A lot of what I like are like video games and they're the kind of the ones that everybody's played. So I'm kind of a simple turn.
And I really want to come up with a good answer. But I'm I'm struggling. Like I got to admit it right now.
I'm not even a nerd.
I'm stretched across a lot of stuff. So I'm not really sure deep lore.
I'm I'm not into the lore for a lot of stuff so much that I'd be familiar with most deep lore, whether it's got witcher doom, war hammer, Mass Effect, any of that stuff.
I just not super, super into it.
And he was three hounds. Yeah, that might be right. Like I said, I can barely remember that. I just remember liking the story.
He stays aloof, makes people fly. His abode is a roof. He's our God of the sky. All hail, almighty Ra.
Bilgegyptus bagferonians. I got it.
Jay, you think Spaceballs is a bad movie? Oh, I read that one out. Jesus is a Mary Sue. He deserved to be punished.
Oh, guest five will get to accompany me to the pearly gates and get yeeted from me there on high.
Oh, that was in response to that super chat.
All the two films Jay's seen have been Snyder's.
Oh, right at rags and ass load.
Oh, all right. I don't know, man, I.
My my ass loads are pretty voluminous.
Also, yeah, we got a lot better, man. We've got literally about the way this works ten.
It's like 20, just just about 20 minutes if we really push it. So I'm going to have to really we're on the last page. Oh, shit, go.
So, yeah, I'm going to I'm just going to rush these. But what's going to happen right if we don't make it, it's fine.
I'm just going to start where we left off on the next defab when we get to the super chat section.
Hopefully it won't double up. We'll be fine. OK, so we got two freebies for you.
Thanks for the hours of entertainment. You absolute massives. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Playing Doom on one hundred and fifty FPS is a drug trip. Oh, I know.
The first time you see it, boy. Yeah, this is from someone.
First time it's from someone called Das Boesch. No idea who this is.
Free super chat expires soon. Hi, Rags. Hey, hey, stupid fucking name. Yeah, I guess so. Yeah.
Wong man, cute. Oh, I know what's that. So that's see like we're in the super chat.
It's part of the super chats now.
Thoughts on using emulators? I use them for older games that are unavailable on PC and are simply no longer for sale on any platform.
Absolutely. Go for it. Absolutely. Not to mention.
If you're able, let's say you have a GameCube and you can play Mario Sunshine on it or whatever, get it on the emulator too, because you can play it at way higher specs or at least a presentation.
Yeah, it's funny you should mention that because I had a friend over just yesterday and we decided we really, really wanted to play Mario Kart Double Dash on the GameCube.
And he found the Dolphin emulator and we were able to get that sucker going like the anti-aliasing was really good.
We were able to get it into like 1080p. Looked pretty fucking good, dude. It's quite crazy to play him like that.
I've played a shit ton of Game Boy Advance games on emulators. I've beaten like two Pokemon games and like all the early Fire Emblem games on it and other stuff.
Yeah, emulators are wonderful. Yeah, go for it.
For Efap 66, you should watch Backstroke of the West finally, or at least do an Efap Mini. You need to see the grand adventure of Ratio Tile and Alla Gold.
There's a good chance it'll be in Efap movies, to be honest with you.
Pokemon info. People are upset, but once people start playing the game, a lot of the problems fade into the actual good story.
Alright.
Star War Robot Chicken has a more believable storyline than this movie. It's probably the same for the Family Guy Star Wars movies as well.
I believe it.
I'm sorry, I used to be subscribed to Movie Bob.
You're forgiven.
You are forgiven.
Critique the plot of a bad erotic film for Efap 69.
Sure.
I would be down for that, yeah.
My dog.
Oh, this isn't fun.
My dog died in my arms a few hours ago. Your stream always makes me feel good and is helping with the grief.
Oh man, I'm really sorry to hear that, man.
Keep up a good wiki message. Yeah, man, you know, sorry to hear that.
I'm sure he was a very good boy.
Dogs are the best.
You live on in your memory. Don't let him fade. Rest is on you now.
Efap card game update. 95% complete. 652 cards.
Printed and cut out cards for game balance testing should be ready in two, maybe three weeks.
Wow, he's really going all in.
I'm all scared by this thing. I don't know what's going to happen.
It sounds intense.
Hello, more learn rags. Hello.
Hello.
What actors would you pick to play yourselves in a movie?
Oh, obviously Danny DeVito.
Danny DeVito and a dog costume.
Danny DeVito in a fursuit.
Get that guy who plays Lich in the Addams Family movies.
He's like the tallest actor there is. Do that.
Make him wear clothes that are striped as well that go straight down.
Jay likes Hawaiian pizza.
Therefore, his opinion is wrong and his management should be questioned.
That's an answer.
Oh, I was thinking about it and we moved on.
Fuck.
You're not getting away with that.
Oh, wait. Who's that guy? Tim Curry.
Yeah.
I want to be Tim Curry.
Okay.
Jay likes Hawaiian pizza.
Therefore, his opinion is wrong and his management should be questioned.
Oh, his management's always been questioned.
Yeah.
There's never been a time where we were questioning that shit.
Hello, my n-words.
What is your favorite movie to watch while drunk and a big fat, girthy hello to rags?
Thank you, Daddy.
Mostly, I way prefer watching comedies when drunk and there's a whole bunch of good ones that work.
I like to watch Thor Ragnarok for the second time while drunk.
That was great.
Oh, yeah. We watched that together.
It was just pure entertainment.
Yeah. What about you guys?
Sorry, Epap is my favorite.
Yeah.
Movie. Watch Drunk.
That's a long movie.
You made a more traditional movie, though.
The question was, what movie do we like to watch Drunk?
Yeah.
Probably some bad, terrible movie.
Oh, yeah, those two.
Is anything terrible?
I don't know. Resident Evil, fill in the blank. I don't know.
How many of them are? Who fucking knows anymore?
Just me, or does no bullshit sound different outside of his videos?
He's using a different mic, obviously.
I was going to say, it's probable.
I mean, you might use filters or whatever, right?
Like, or some basic filters on your videos, maybe.
Well, I imagine he, you know, he sets his mic up and he's got it in a very particular way.
Maybe he records in a closet like some people do.
He sounds. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's what that is. No doubt about it.
I mean, he sounds awful either way.
A friend unironically told me that my opinion on TLJ was invalid because I watch anti-TLJ video essayists.
Implication being that I liked TLJ before seeing your content.
How do people think like this?
People live in a world where they don't think that minds can be chained.
Yeah. So there's that.
Yeah. It's like you, you just watch these videos.
It's like, well, these videos convinced me and I, and I believe them.
Yeah. That's happened to me plenty of times with the media.
I'll watch a video deconstructing. I'll be like, oh, fuck. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. I didn't think about that.
And I can't think of a good rebuttal, you know, so there you go.
How much money would you need to be paid for you to chew on a piece of chewing gum that someone has spat out into a urinal?
You can't rinse the gum beforehand and it must be for 30 consecutive seconds.
Say that one more time.
How much money would you need to be paid for you to chew on a piece of chewing gum that someone has spat out into a urinal?
You can't rinse the gum beforehand and it must be chewed for 30 consecutive seconds.
How much money?
Oh, that's tough.
I don't, I mean, I don't.
I mean, I'd do it. I'd do it for a million bucks.
I think most people would do it for that.
I'd do it for $10 million.
So no less than a million, huh?
I don't know. I mean, probably I'd say almost certainly.
I probably go as low as maybe a thousand as long as I don't swallow anything and clean my mouth immediately afterwards.
Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. It's like you seem to be allowed to spit and like wash your mouth afterwards.
As long as you can hang in there for 30 seconds is a pretty reasonable amount of time.
Yeah, and it doesn't say you have to chew vigorously or anything.
You don't have to swallow.
Nope.
And hey, maybe the, maybe the urinal is relatively clean.
Yeah. And you can hold your nose closed so you don't smell it or taste it.
So thousands, right?
I'll go with a thousand.
Because it's pretty nasty.
Yeah, it's pretty nasty.
Hearing Jay hog down his junk food makes me want to unironically go Brad Pitt at the end of Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Mode RRL right now.
All right.
Thank you for the content. Have some free money. Thank you.
Atlas Shrugged was basically Twilight for assholes, but with 10% more rape.
Okay.
Okay.
Good stream. Take a little bit more of my money. Now I'm actually broke.
Also, remember, kiddies, Star Wars is a film franchise ended in 1983.
It ends at a different point for everybody.
I know that a lot of people will say, I remember people, it ended at TLJ.
We never got this nonsense.
We'll be like, Oh, yeah.
It ended with a good one.
So we got 14 minutes.
Oh, I don't think we're going to be able to make this.
So like I said, when we hit around 14 minutes, I'll probably end the stream.
And like I said, we will catch up from where we left off, but I'll get through as many as I can.
I thought Val and Hulk were more of a thing than Val and Thor.
They said both of them in a way to a degree, but I always thought that Valkyrie and Thor had more of a thing.
But maybe in episode nine, Finn will say he was cleaning Snoke's toilet and he saw Palpatine's ghost and he'll know how to beat Palpatine.
We can only hope.
I'll say they will have an opportunity to really explore the psyche of Thor a lot because Mantis will be with them and she's good for that character stuff.
Absolutely.
Rags theory.
Camarilla are punishing V.
Thus, he has been absent and Emil tuned him in.
Please mention next episode.
I'm curious if others agree.
It's possible that that's a real world explanation for it, but we haven't been getting given any specifics by the GM.
Perhaps V will return one day to our campaign.
We are not certain.
And so for now, we are just essentially just carrying on as if he has vanished.
He did a dumb though.
He did a few dumbs.
Hey, Jay, I was the guy who said my friend loved another life because it was classic great sci fi.
Turns out she was just trying to get me to watch it.
She still loves it.
Ironically.
Well, there you go.
Hi, Rags.
Caught you in molar on DP earlier this month.
I heard of that bizarre McDonald's story some time ago.
What the fuck?
Also, Jared is a pedo now.
I don't know if he's a pedo.
He got a band recently.
Weird.
From what I heard.
Apparently he showed porn on his stream and got banned.
That's one of the other superstars.
Oh, no.
Don't do that, Jared.
Love you, molar and rags.
You are dead to me, Jay.
Foxy Robin Hood is my favorite film.
Oh, I was from Keeper Kids, the Efap.me guy.
Yeah, Jay.
Piece of shit.
Watch everything already.
Worthless.
At the $2 tier, YouTube is charging four cents per character for a super chat.
At the $500 tier, YouTube charges a whopping $1.43 per character.
I thought Palpatine was evil.
Oh, my.
My goodness.
Let me clarify.
My friend will be shook because he spent months brainwashing me into watching Efap and it
actually worked.
Hi.
Sorry.
Hi, Kirky.
Hey.
Kirky apparently convinced this person to get into Efap.
How could you do that?
What a good man.
She is a Disney princess.
Is that referring to Rey?
I don't know.
You think Red Letter Media will finally admit Force Awakens is garbage once Rise of Skywalker
comes out?
Red Letter Media didn't think Star Wars was garbage?
I think their opinions on-
They do nothing but make fun of it now.
I think they've gone to the point where they say, yeah, TLJ is garbage, but Force Awakens,
I don't know if they've come around to saying that's garbage.
I can't remember.
Oh, right.
Okay.
If you give Jay a kick, he's going to ask you for a glass of rhino milk.
When you give him the milk, he'll probably ask you for a geode.
When he's finished, he'll ask you to watch another life.
Goodnight, Massives.
Goodnight.
Yeah, Jay is full of surprises.
It's undeniable.
Movie Bob probably smells like cigarettes and old cheese.
I think that's pretty strong as a descriptor, actually.
Cigarettes and old cheese, yeah.
Cigarettes and old cheese.
Just finished the new Batwoman.
She hangs a gay flag.
It's so bad.
I can't wait for a two-hour mini.
Also, high rags and kick Jar Jar the jet plane.
Hey, I can't wait for Batwoman.
Big flag.
All right.
We just gotta pander some more, Boro.
Hey, rags, check out F Compton by Tim Dogg if you want to see buff black guys swinging a light cord, lol.
Okay.
Here you go, rags.
Keep that line and take that's ever something I have a passing fancy for.
The Lighthouse and Parasite seem pretty good, IMO.
Both films, other than Joker, I unironically enjoyed this year.
Oh yeah, Lighthouse is another film I need to check out.
I heard a lot of good things.
On the real, since I hear you love political sci-fi, check out 80s anime called Legend of the Galactic Heroes.
It's really good and relatable.
I am a galactic hero, so...
At rags, if you want some good fairy dads, look up Hrothgar from Final Fantasy 14.
Handsome cat dads.
Yes, the new... the new monsters.
Oh yeah, I've seen some of them.
They decided to branch out from the five human races with varying degrees of ear sizes and neck sizes.
Yeah, that's one thing I really hated about Final Fantasy 14.
It was like, what kind of human do you want to play?
And like, oh.
Is this it?
Well, they're all pretty bad, and then they're like, okay, well here's a furry.
He's like, okay.
Okay, well, we got options.
Now you're mixing things up a little.
Madlib time.
Ephab, give me an adverb, adjective, noun, adjective, noun, adverb.
Hope you guys are having enjoyable lives.
May the dawn be with you.
Yeah, it's gonna take a while.
Um, you want us to give it an adverb?
Uh, you might save that for later.
You know what, I actually will.
I'll just go to copy that and put it somewhere.
I will address it at some point.
It'll happen.
I swear to God.
If we are to actually find a way of giving a strong answer to that.
Okay.
Here is money.
Thank you.
Short man, good.
Long man, bad.
I disagree.
Do you guys own pets?
If so, what kinds?
I do not have pets.
I do not have pets.
Currently don't.
I'm thinking of having a dog, but I live on my own and I kind of get concerned on whether
or not I'm going to take a trip and who's going to help me take care of it while I'm
gone.
And that just kind of bugs me.
Plus I want it to have a yard.
I feel the same way about those two things, actually.
Yeah.
Um, have you guys considered being in alternative platforms?
Also, HiRags.
Hey!
We will probably transfer to another platform if YouTube boots us off right now.
We'll just stay here.
Um.
Yeah.
We don't have, um, we don't have a reason to go yet.
Mm-hmm.
It's all a dream, dudes.
Well, maybe.
Jeb and the Holograms.
Jeb is truly outrageous.
Truly, truly, truly outrageous.
That's a reference to Taric.
I know my League of Legends still.
Even though that, that, that's, that's actually referencing something else.
I just know it more so from League of Legends at this point.
Uh, have you seen Hannibal TV series?
If so, thoughts?
Pretty good.
I only saw the first two seasons.
I've heard that it doesn't end fantastically.
Have not seen.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah, I, I'm not, I haven't seen it.
No.
Um.
Have you seen Han, oh, sorry.
Uh, here's the last of my free YouTube money.
Can I send it to Wolfoo's kitten?
Wallop's kitten.
Uh, yes.
Oh yeah, Wolf as a kitten.
I've seen a couple photos.
That's a cute little guy.
It's Hugh Catman.
Um, here's another on YouTube's tab.
Who would win in a fight of Captain Marvel or Rey?
They both have their plot armor, also High Rags and Mauler.
So the thing that Rey has over Captain Marvel is the force.
And by that I'm actually referring to the force as an entity will allow Rey to win anything.
Captain Marvel may have the power of the universe,
but what can that do against the best plot armor in the money can buy?
And let's be frank now, the legions of the undead.
She's got a lot of undead for the Captain Marvel to battle, so.
Yeah, I'd honestly probably go with Rey in terms of writing, in terms of power level.
It's tough, man, to actually really be honest about it with how stupid everything is for Rey in these movies.
Like, I don't know.
Um, can we still view your Jedi Fallen Order stream?
Yes.
Use the link in the description to get to the Discord.
And once you're in the Discord, you can find it through the channel Watto's Junk Yard.
I threw all of my unlisted gaming streams in there.
Troglodytes are basically tismy lizard men of D&D.
Oh, there you go.
Okay, yeah, that's what I thought.
Uh, you need to cuck Nando vs. Movie's Joker video.
It's a disgrace to the movie. He must be punished by the toxic brood.
Kill it with memes.
I have seen, uh, of this video.
I heard of this video as well. It doesn't look very good.
It's on the selection of all these bad Joker takes that we haven't gone around to yet.
How are we doing with time?
We've literally got just four minutes left, so I think I'm gonna answer, like, a few more,
and then we'll just do a sort of outro, and then I'll save the rest for next time.
We only have, we only, only have about 30 left.
Only?
Uh, as a native...
Only have about 30 left.
I know.
As a native Bostonian, I am beyond embarrassed that Cinema Roberto is also a Bostonian.
Of course, I'm also embarrassed by our lack of support for the glorious God Emperor, but mostly Movie Bob.
Uh, Resident Doctor, work insane hours...
Oh, Resident Doctor, work insane hours and is a stressful job.
That's in reference to the whole, uh, how legal is it to work.
Uh, 43 hours sort of thing. Yeah, gotcha.
Um, EFAB is about alt-right children intended for centrists.
Sleep time now.
So one last super chat before bed. Later, long man. Good night, wags.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Fun fact more, I was introduced to your content after falling asleep to Mr. H Reviews and waking up to your TLJ critique.
Hope you can get him on.
I don't know that guy, but, uh, possibly. Possibly.
Yeah, cool.
Uh, sorry I've not sent a chat in a while. I fell off a roof three weeks back.
Can Ra confirm his whereabouts last week of October?
Right, it's on you, buddy.
Star Wars was clearly hacked. Uh, it would make sense.
Uh, watch G-Man Lives terminate a Resistance review.
Uh, I think I mean GGG-Man Lives and, um, I mean, yeah, if that's a good source for what the game's all about.
Um, keep Jay after no bullshit thing. He earned it.
Well, we did.
Um, I heard a rumor that Disney is killing Star Wars to revive Walt Disney. A worthy sacrifice.
Oh my goodness.
Ah, do a massive blood circles underneath the entire HQ.
They're gonna sacrifice all of their employees as a blood sacrifice to bring back Disney himself.
Uh, fook it. No one else getting these free superchats. There's a lot of these free superchat things coming around, I guess.
Yeah, mine was gonna expire shortly, so I think maybe they're in the same time frame.
Oh, it might be, yeah.
Much like Jar Jar was in episodes two and three, much, much less after Phantom Menace, Rose will show up much less after TLJ, or she will be written better.
I doubt it, but maybe.
Um, and yeah, I think I'm gonna stop there. Like I said, there's not, there's, there's...
Like I said, there's about 30 left. Alright, we can get, I might try and do that right at the beginning of the next Efap, get them knocked out quickly, and then we start the main thing.
So that, uh, it's covered. Sorry we didn't get up to all of them, but we're about to hit the cap.
Um, it's literally gonna cut me off in just under a minute. So, I guess we'll just say thank you all very much for watching.
The Toxic Brood survived the Twitter war. Um, this will be up on Moolah soon enough, because there's nothing copyrighted in this one, I think.
I hope. Yeah. Um, thanks all the guests for coming on. Appreciate it. All the links to this stuff is in the description.
Thank you all for the community stuff as well, like all the artwork and the memes. Meme videos shall get their coverage.
And thank you all for the very kind and generous donations. Is there anything you guys want to say before we piece the fuck out?
Happy to have you all here. See you next time.
Mm-hmm. I'll see you later. Bye-bye.
And yeah, sorry about the Super Chess not getting covered. They will be covered next time, 100%. There's not a huge amount left.
It's just that YouTube have said we can't stream for longer than 11.55. That seems to be our cap.
Of which we're 30 seconds away from. So, thank you all for watching, and good night.
Good night.
