Oh my god, you don't even got the thumbnail.
Oh no, you will stream, they say. You will stream, whether you like it or not.
How do I stop one of them?
I don't even know what's happening on one of them.
It's not public, it's not live though, it's just scheduled. It's like waiting for Mauler.
Okay...
Yeah, Mauler.
What the...
Is that not the thing I told you that I was hoping wouldn't happen?
Yeah, but is that upcoming one still there now, or is that gone?
I always get those, and I don't know what to do with them, so I just private them.
You know what they're gonna say? They stream 30 hours a week, and they don't even know how to stream.
They're stupid.
I really don't when YouTube changes all the fucking rules on me all the time.
To be fair, I didn't know before.
Well, this is just the new thing that OBS is doing to me.
It asked me more questions than it ever did, and it doesn't need to. Go away.
Stop asking questions.
Okay, that one I've...
Video's available to everybody, that's fine.
Okay, I've got them...
Yeah, I've reversed them, right, so...
Unlist that one, public this one.
Okay, YouTube? Are you following me?
It is...
The one that I was on is now unlisted, okay.
It's...
Just give it five minutes, it should work out.
This is a complicated project.
We're live, we're live, dude.
We're live.
It's all debate, discussion, and discourse from the dawn of time.
We have a strong effort to belure the line between subjects.
Yeah, we're live.
Yeah, see?
That's me, that's my mic.
No, no, no, it was playing my video for me then.
Also, yeah, chat, don't worry, I'll get you on screen in a sec.
That's another thing that's been happening.
I have to reset chat every time, but I can't even do it through OBS anymore.
Until it streams live to find the fucking link I need.
This is such...
Oh, no!
This is now insanity, and I don't know why.
I had to do this the first time, but don't worry, we'll get started soon enough with non-nonsense.
There you go, chat's on screen.
I won't be having non-nonsense on effect.
As the manager, I disapprove of that.
Oh, it's just...
Why make it so difficult?
I will have you replaced.
Why make it so difficult?
That is my question.
I like how YouTube never does anything to make things better.
It's always worse.
Yeah, like nine out of ten times, what they decide to do is actually worse for everyone in every way.
I was going to say, my first thought was, no, no, no, no.
Remember when they went back on their...
They didn't remove the verified ticks, but that wasn't it making it better.
That was just them not fucking it up for once.
Right, exactly.
That was them deciding to go back on something that would have been better.
They didn't actually make anything better.
They just decided, oh, we're going back on the thing that would have made it shitty.
Do they not want me to stream through OBS anymore or something?
Is that what this is?
I can't even tell.
I have to change the thumbnail.
I've got two upcoming streams now.
Thanks.
Oh, I can't wait.
Unlisted, this is visible to...
How do I get rid of this?
Go away.
Stupid.
This is going to be the most interesting intro to eFap in history.
Just listening to me struggle.
This is objectively the worst intro.
This is what it's like to listen to Swann.
I mean, it's not that bad.
So I guess while...
I guess while Mauler figures everything out,
the rest of us should come up with some kind of a topic.
Some sort of discussion.
Talking about the Mandalorian, I like it.
Me too.
Next topic.
Next topic.
All right.
Let's talk about...
I mean, what else has been on the news, I guess, that's relevant?
Yeah, I mean, I guess.
Oh, yeah, that's going really great.
I'm sure they're very glad that they went through with that.
Let's pick something that isn't controversial, like Trump.
The Holocaust.
Like spreading butter with a sword.
I don't think the Holocaust is controversial.
I think everybody's got the same opinion on it, right?
Yeah, I think we're all in agreement.
It's just like everyone's way of someone disagreeing.
All right.
Okay, all right, all right.
I just saw the stupid chat that's a reference to my book.
Thank you for reading it.
I know we can do while I make sure everything's right.
I've got a whole bunch of questions for Shad,
because there were super chats that were sent in
after you'd left the previous eFap.
Hey, awesome.
Oh, wow.
This one came up.
Me and Rags essentially went through it because of Google images
and Wikipedia's and stuff.
But, hey, you can give your expert perspective on explaining
the difference for the chat from an expert right here,
paid professional, okay?
Oh, that is so funny that you think I'm an expert.
Shad, expert person.
What is the in-depth difference between morning stars
and evening stars?
Ah, it's a semantical.
Like, morning stars, people can never really decide
on what the official definition is.
And this is a larger problem with medieval history,
but also history in general, because the general use of words
goes along with just the common vernacular,
which often changes and contradicts.
And the perfect example is like broadsword,
because broadsword has never been a historical, you know,
definition of a type of sword, but now it's entered into popular
language that it means arming sword.
And so, like, you can't really fight against what,
because language evolves all the time.
I mean, you know, the word awful didn't used to mean bad.
It meant something that was worthy of being full of awe,
which was great.
And so, going back to the whole morning star thing,
the general kind of consensus is just if it's a round,
like, spherical thing with spikes on it,
it could be class as a morning star,
whether it's on the end of a stick or on the end of a chain.
But there's nothing really official, official.
All right.
There you go, folks.
We've ended the debate.
It's done.
We did it.
Over.
What else have we got?
Oh, what do you want to do?
It's really interesting.
Well, yeah, it's just really interesting when you get the
mega historian pendants that come after you
for not using the definitions that they demand
are legitimate.
And I'm kind of caught in a rock and a hard place because
I see the definition that most people use casually.
And then I see a historical definition that is, you know,
a few hundred years out of date.
And then it's like, okay, what should I try and push towards?
Should I try and push towards something that's a hundred years
out of date or just go along with something that, you know,
more commonly understood?
And I generally actually go along with what's more
commonly understood because it's easier to be understood.
It's being pragmatic with language, right?
Yeah.
Being understood is the point of speaking.
That's very controversial, sir.
Well, I've made a video on it, right, about how language
messes up historical accuracy.
And most people are like really fine with it,
but then some German guy made a reply video that I only
got like half of it because of translation issues,
but he was not happy with me.
And yeah, so he didn't like it.
Um, Chad, would you recommend a chainsword when fighting a spider?
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
I mean, if you've got a fun web coming at you,
like that's probably what you need.
Well, chainsword would be good against a spider.
Yeah, I would say that might be a little like underkill.
You might want to go with a nuke or something.
Yeah.
You know, sort of shotgun would be your safe bet.
But if you've got enough money, then yeah,
a cyber would be a good choice.
So I am only, yeah, I'm thinking about the Australian spiders
and a nuke seems about the appropriate.
You're going to make a video on the nuke sword or?
The nuke sword.
Nuke sword mightier than the sword.
Yeah.
Chad, what fictional sword would you like to own?
Uh, imperious.
Uh, what's that from?
It's well, yeah, it's from my book.
Yeah.
I mean, what do I like when you're writing something and you've got
this cool sword, you obviously want to make the coolest one that you can
think of.
So it's going to go to the top of the list of the ones you like.
I'm going to, I'm going to go ahead and assume disqualifying your own.
What would you pick?
Uh,
uh,
like I have the design and then I have favorites for, um,
a utility, like the shard blades from, um,
from Stormlight archives, Brandon Sanderson are pretty darn awesome.
And so for utility purposes,
I'll probably go shard blade and cool factor.
If I was going for design and realism,
it might be undoing the like shards of NASA.
Like the sort of,
it has a couple of, you know,
Aragon's one.
Yeah, it's a beautiful, beautiful sword.
Yeah, it's a good one.
Um,
I was thinking I'd probably,
if I thought about it for a while,
I probably wouldn't go for one that has some kind of magical property
that can do something of some kind.
Um,
I know there was the,
did you ever read the predain Chronicles?
Cause they had that fuck off fire sword on that one.
Unfortunately I have not read it.
Um,
Yeah, they were all right.
I read them as a kid,
so I don't know if they're really good or not,
but, um,
this, the black cauldron books is probably what most people would know them as.
Do lightsabers count?
No,
we'll have to disqualify them.
Like if,
if you bring lightsaber into the real world,
would it operate under real world physics or the physics as they had
portrayed in star wars?
Because my assumption is that lightsabers as portrayed in star wars,
they've just found some way in real world physics to make that happen.
And that's what it's telling us.
But, but they contradicted,
like generated as much heat as they're showing in the Phantom Menace to melt
through steel.
You touch someone with it and you,
you would instantly vaporize their blood into gas,
which would cause a massive explosive expansion.
And so a lightsaber is an instant person exploding weapon.
When it comes to star wars,
there's a lot of stuff that just, um,
cause it, you know, there's no sound in space and there aren't big fiery
explosions cause there's no air.
It would just snuff out immediately,
but we just accept it.
Just cause it looks cool.
Yeah.
Stuff out immediately.
Explosions.
Well, cause explode fire needs oxygen to us.
So any fiery explosion,
not the actual explosion itself though,
like things would explode,
but the thing is it like immediately.
It's like in gravity.
Where the space station blows up and it just proof.
And then it's, it's gone basically instantly.
Yeah.
Once it burns off the oxygen from inside of it, it's just gone.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
It's not like we accept it cause it looks clean because it's burning all that
fuel constant.
Yeah, but it looks cool.
So we're happy with it.
Imagine like, so I don't even know if this would be accurate,
but like someone fires a laser that you like block slash absorb the lightsaber,
but instead it just like travels through and melts into some gassy,
horrible, hot stuff and splashes into the Jedi's face.
I think because science actually tried to break down the numbers.
If a lightsaber could block a bullet and turned out or just turn it into
molten metal that would fly in the person's face.
So that would be horrifying.
Yay.
But you know,
it'd be like alien blood, you know,
Chad, are you aware of the Netflix movie coming out in November called the
King?
Ha.
Yes, of course.
I was when they mentioned that from the last stream,
but by this time I've done a whole review on it and I didn't like it.
I wasn't happy with it.
That's very inaccurate.
Oh, there you go.
What about the themes?
No, the themes were even worse.
Oh no.
The overarching themes was that King Henry was a manipulatable,
weak, pathetic man who was goaded into, you know,
fighting France and all that stuff.
And so the overall themes were also bad in my opinion.
I'm sure they'll add a strong,
independent black female queen who will set everything straight before,
you know, close.
She wasn't black, but she was that it was actually from the,
the princess at the end spoilers, but I didn't like the movie.
So, you know, I don't think you'll miss much.
Um, but yeah, I, that was the female French princess that basically,
you know, rips off his testicles and emasculates him on screen saying how
pathetic he is.
And, uh, I'm like, oh, it was so like just turned mindset was so modern
sensibility injected into historical period.
It was horrendous.
I'm sure they'd get away with that in the past.
Oh, oh yeah, definitely.
This says, uh, Shad, give us some SA four details.
SA four.
That's all I've got.
SA four sword and analysis.
Uh, it's a for saw a semen armor.
Who are you writing an essay for?
It's not shadow of the conqueror.
People usually prefer that, but.
Salamander ass burgers.
See if, uh, they've got anything for you to help us out.
I'm sorry.
I don't know.
Oh, ah, so I saw my archives.
No, I don't have any details on some of my guys.
Brandon is still writing the, uh, the rough draft and so he hasn't even
completed yet.
He is quite an expedient writer.
I gotta say like he, he gets a lot done, which is very impressive for
someone like me who gets nothing done.
Hey, someone just to send me this.
A nuke sword.
That was quick to be quick.
Yeah.
These people are like immediate with this shit.
It's terrifying.
Like, uh, like more than the other day.
Showed me a bunch of the, uh, the, uh, what was it?
Diabeto memes.
Oh yeah.
I started a folder.
We had some like several pieces of original artwork that were like
downright awesome stuff for Diabeto.
That stream, that stream, by the way, it got hit with a copyright thing,
but it's cleared up already.
I'm going to release it tomorrow while this one then downloads and uploads.
So yeah, you're going to get Diabeto tomorrow.
This one will be a few days after.
Probably.
Oh, that's great.
Yes.
I haven't.
It's happening now.
This one right now.
Not even finished.
It's promising that it's going to come out eventually.
That's my, I, I am now, uh, I just got an email from YouTube.
I can now, uh, I can now.
Mana monetize dog bites.
Excellent.
Hooray.
Hooray.
That is actually really good.
Hooray.
The chat has the name for the nuke sword.
The Hiroshima.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh my God.
It's such a clever name.
Even though it's so simple.
The Hiroshima.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
With the sounds you just made.
There could be a lot of videos.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh yeah.
I just got to share my appreciation.
Yep.
Yep.
It's fair.
We were like those two guys at the end of the two people at the end of notes from Melanie.
We were just having, we just come in.
Just straight up.
Coming.
That has been well received by the way.
I was consumed, but, uh, everyone seems to be on board.
Yeah.
Um,
We might pursue looking into a format where we live-review something that's more like a film just to see how it goes
See how things stand up to screen
It possibly the problem is saving private rhymes that I feel like I need to look into
Accuracy stuff in order to have something to say about it, you know, like because I don't actually know how accurate it is
I just just think it's really well
Well, I do remember reading that a lot of World War two veterans had to leave during the Omaha beach landing because it was that
It was it brought them back to it
I think that doesn't surprise me at all
But like, you know even stuff that they may not even be aware of I'm curious about just old details
Well V V said that event horizon was objectively bad
So I've been horizon. That's the isn't that from Paul W.S. Anderson?
It is and it's usually the movie I reference to say he's not all bad
I
Would like to rewatch that I haven't seen it in a long time
I'm not saying it's a great film
But I liked it a lot and I wouldn't mind rewatching it for maybe any fat movies
I've never met anyone who like didn't like it
It's kind of got a pretty big cult following to the point where even calling it a cult following is almost seems like a misnomer
Perhaps um, oh
This one's for shad and fringy these are super chats
By the way that I'm just trying to get out ready ready before shad eventually has to leave the 10 million more of them
Shad fringy, when will crinola riots to electric boogaloo happen?
uh, oh
I predict in
two years
24 days and
three hours I
I I don't know
Think about that one. This one says good job shad on asking Brandon about TLJ
That was hilarious
Brandon's reaction was great. He was like, oh you're gonna get me in trouble because
He did you could tell he didn't like it
He was very very diplomatic about it
But he didn't mention that what they did to Luke just was horrible for him
You often get your politics labeled for you depending on whether you like that film
You gotta be careful and I Brandon is such a good writer like a phenomenal writer
I or like I felt it would almost be impossible for him to have liked it because there's so much wrong with it
And and if you have a good understanding of story on like in even a basic level
You could not like the last Jedi. There's so much wrong with it
So yeah, I was confident news answer. Mm-hmm. Like you lost it. I was actually illegal now
So you're not gonna stand this shad, but it's still directed at you
Will you give homecoming leeway for being in the Disney fanatical Marvel Universe?
Hey, I don't get it
it's a it's a reference to a guy who kept arguing that the faults of the Disney films don't matter because you're supposed to accept
That they're in a Disney fanatical universe
No, I disagree completely because well, I mean, yeah, that's that's not a good argument
By the way, I liked homecoming it was far from home that I didn't like yeah, yeah
Yeah, I was just gonna say that like the point I think the guy was trying to make was this is new continuity
So stop judging it by old stuff and it's just like it's a sequel
That doesn't make any sense
Are we supposed to make sense of any of the shit that's happening in these films without considering the ones that came before?
Whether whether crazy ghost puppet Yoda turns up. What are you supposed to think of that? If you haven't seen the other films?
Imagine that with no context. You'd be like what the fuck. It's a ghost puppet
And we had a good long debate on the merits of far from home and we did legitimate problems with it
Just by itself out of context
It's got more problems than homecoming does that's for sure even though I think both movies are quite good
It has more issues than homecoming
Yeah
Next up is really totally written. Yeah, I think homecoming is pretty strong Chad. Did you get hooked up with a bonsai?
Like a bonsai tree I assume a form of sword and make of sword I assume it's not tree
But if it is did you can you spell it like beer? It's the tree. I
Don't think so. I mean the katanas that I have on hand aren't like
Like one is a half decent, but I got that for friends. I don't even know they make a model of that one
And I got a pretty good
Lockwood sword, but that's like my best one. It's the long sword that I usually wear in videos
But outside of those I don't actually know many of the makes of the other swords because they're lower ends
I mean, I got a tinker long sword
That's common beer. I don't think so. I don't think so
Shad what do you think about Adeptus custodus halberd guns in Warhammer?
Well halberds are epic how sorry not hail this halberds are epic and if you could shoot them as bullets well
That's just next-level awesomeness. So
Like I would have some full approval
Yep, oh
And then I guess the follow-up was that I attached to this was it's pronounced Adeptus custodis
But yeah, I don't know anything about will hammer unfortunately. I think I think this is a picture of it right here
Well, that's pretty nifty looking. Oh
nice Oh
Lovely, probably kill it. It's even got a magazine up. I've seen
I
Mean that's stupid it's stupid, but it's cool through someone and then shoot someone standing behind them
Well, this is the thing right? I mean bayonets have been you know
Attachments to firearms for a long time already and I've done a whole video exploring gun swords because gun swords have existed historically
But the main issue why gun swords haven't really become a huge prominent thing
And even why bayonets aren't universally attached to all swords is that it throws off the weight of the gun and your aim fairly significantly
And so if you had super strength that it wasn't an issue
I I could see a weapon like that thing and so with space Marines
Yeah, if there's they got super strength from their armor and they're also genetically enhanced a weapon like that
Perfectly viable answer. Yeah, there's I mean you could run out of bullets, but if you got a blade on ya, you know
There is a reason why have bayonets. I've got a bunch for wolf. I guess I forgot to ask him, but I'll get around to it
When he's back on you one last one we can I can throw out and this is for Jay. I
Really liked just even universe video thoughts on gravity falls
Thank you, and it's really good
One of the best cartoons I've ever seen. Oh, I haven't watched enough of it to say that I do really like it though
It's only two seasons and it tells a very complete story
No milk is forever. No, they stopped it because they got they were done with it
like this that does the
There's like space to make like a you know, like a maybe 10 20 years on show from it
Which if the original creators announced I would be like so stoked for but if anyone else picks it up, I'd be like no fuck off
Oh
I hope I'm for rags. I guess I
previously
Use my to pay to buy a gaming PC, but alas, I am NOT a computer smart. Where should I go to build the best PC?
Where should you go?
What you want to do is if you're gonna set aside a lot of money like that
you just want to learn learn learn learn learn about the parts and
What you need for what you want to game with it. Did he say was his first?
First you might want to just dial it back a little bit
Yeah, maybe start off with something a lot more modest so that you can kind of learn a bit or see
You know that you want to jump all the way into it just to make sure I don't think you'll regret it
But you know, that is a lot of money
When it when it was me my first PC was about one thousand dollars the PC
I'm playing on now was about two thousand dollars and I built it knowing a lot more, you know at this point
Yeah
But you the internet really is your best friend. Yeah, look at a lot of reviews of things. Look at all kinds of different
Forums and threads and just all sorts of stuff. There's so much information out there. Yeah
There's just a lot of good info out there
Take advantage of it. Just learn learn learn never feel rushed into buying something
That's one thing never ever feel like you you got to get it now. You got to get it now
It's like parts will always be there
So don't worry about feeling pressured into you know going sunny day
But you could you could consider buying a pre-built gaming PC just
No, not here. See what I would say is
If you you can generally get
Really good priced gaming PCs from just people looking to get rid of theirs
The Craigslist thing eBay thing if someone's local and you can go there and see that it works and all that stuff
That wouldn't necessarily be a bad option because they just want most people just want to get rid of it
They they don't have any overhead. They just wanted to sell it get it out
So you could potentially score a really good PC for the price doing that
There's a lot of different options. There's a lot of different options
But it cites from PC part picker to Tom's hardware to this that and the other thing YouTube is full of
Reviews of all kinds of different parts, but also kind of set how serious of a gamer you are
It sounds like you're pretty into it if you're gonna put aside, you know, two grand for a PC
So, you know, do you want to play it 1080p?
You'll probably play it 1440
Yeah, so I mean I'd say go 1440p and get that really good FPS, you know, that's what I do
And I don't regret it
Like night and day I
Picked a 4k monitor because it's got more like space to work on
But for gaming, yeah, you probably would be better off with a smaller but faster refresh rate computer. Uh, not computer display
Yeah, man, I just use resources and learn learn learn
What's pretty neat is thought with mentioning is that thanks to the amount of members I was able to add three more emotes
I've thrown in a
a
Tism maul of tism. It's just a nice little picture that can represent tism. I shall post it now
If it shows up for me, sorry
Joined to unlock I am the thing
I own you pay yourself five pounds now. Oh it just see that this happens a lot
It also I was in my real like primary account and then it signed me into my Google account
Like when I refresh the page it does this a lot it really fucking annoys me
But you know, what are you gonna do?
Anyway, the first one's more tism as you can see beautiful little image
You can possibly be posted when we discover something of um particular relation
We got a little festive emote with the more santa
is ready for christmas coming around the corner and um,
I decided to throw in one from the favorite from the discord
Virus having a bit of a vomit so you can just post that if you feel like it's particularly suitable
I thought they were pretty neat. There's a whole bunch of motes. Um
Just another way to support the channel if you're interested and you get some uh fun tisms to look at which brings me into
uh
Talking about some fan art that was made. Oh, yes made me aware of
Um, yeah, someone emailed this to me. Well, i'm gonna i'm gonna build it up
So first of all he did icons for me wolf and uh and rags this is um
The wolf icon and then we've got like a christmas version for each of them as well. So just going to show these first
They're pretty neat
Um, I believe wolf is already using his christmas icon. I shall be in I think the next podcast this planned
Will actually be the first of december. So that'll work out nicely. Um
then you've got raggers
And uh the christmas version
The eyelashes really sell it
Look at the sexy rise
Oh
I can oh man
And then um one for me as well
And the reason why i'd be praising these more but i'm trying to get to somewhere that you guys will see in a moment
So these are all essentially
cut out and added to and changed to to match these things from a bigger picture that he
That he made is this the story right rags that he's been in hospital for a while. Uh watching efap. I
yeah, I believe I
Didn't uv but yeah, he was the guy who was in the uh motorcycle accident, right?
and he went through and he basically watched I think like all the efaps because he had to
Be in the hospital for a while. Let me um
Uh, uh, yeah, he was in the motorcycle accident. He said he watched all of efap over the last seven weeks
Uh, he said he says he's an art director by trade that seems right to me
So keep that in mind. Yeah, he made something for us
And um, I guess i'm gonna put it on screen now and uh, you may spend some time on this
Just checking it out. Here's a link to you folks
Um, it is very good. Yeah, it's very good. Yeah, it's uh
Yeah, like it's something else and i'm envious of this guy's talents
So it one thing that is
Extra amazing about it is that the more you look at it
The more like all the references and meme this thing is dense. So yeah, we're gonna we're gonna do some of that looking into it
So i'm gonna i'm gonna make it full screen on the streams. You can't even see us
Just so you can get a big old picture of it. If you're listening to this, just uh, just boot it all up in a full screen
So you've got a shit ton of the first thing I actually want to point out is you can see to the right of rags
There is the the korean musician person who is
This is a meme from literally like the last stream and it's in here
Right there that's what this is. Yeah, it is very recent
Um
This is insanely good
I mean at this point, it's just like point out whatever you want folks because it's like the golden stitch
Medea
Carl the robot carl the terminator luke is mcmuffin luke has got his loud soup
Yes, everyone's drinking rhino nog. Yes, they are and they all have different like cups
Yes
Good rat with the red pill rags you have some intense titties there. They're all right
Only two of them are only two
Oh, i've got something on my arm
Um, the arm band
Sure what the symbol is um, obviously i've got a badge for the toxic brood I think
I've got a little
Joker card. Yeah, i'm not i'm guessing is that related to the fact that we've been defending joker, I guess
I suppose and you have an igc or a
Oh, what would that stand for? What is that?
What is is that an igc?
What is igc? I feel like the chest probably gonna get that one. Also the don has slice and dice on his t-shirt
Yes, he does
Two is that these he's got a pin on his jacket, which is like a hand with the blade coming down
That's the hand of the king badge from game of thrones. Um
Might be related to taiwan lannister being that he's the apex
Homosexual, I don't know. Oh it might be
What's with the watermelon?
The watermelon is it just a watermelon? Yeah the behind the chicken the rot with the raw the eye of raw
Um, what is what is the melon the melon is
Um
Oh intellectual gaming community that's what the igc is intellectual gaming community that's it
Um
We and yes, we do have an inward pass behind luke there
uh, oh, yeah
Let's see is is jeb in here. Do we have a jeb is that jenny nickels at the right?
No, that's the guilt from the efav video. Uh, there is no yeah, that's uh, yeah
That's the efaf lady thing. I think yeah the french. Yeah
Um, i'm trying to see if uh, i'm trying to see if jeb is in here
I don't think he is actually like look because there's so much. Yeah
Spider we got wolf's got the uh, so what is
What is that in uh?
Bilbo's breast pocket on his that is a plumbus. It's a plumbus
a plumber
Do you not know what a plumbus is? I know that I know plumbus is latin word for lead. No rick and morty
No, don't tell him
I don't i've haven't seen rick and morty. So yeah
He has a life jay. Everyone needs a plumbus in their home. Yeah, we first they take a dingle pop and they
Smooth it out with a bunch of sleep
The sleep is repurposed for later batches. They take the wait, what was it that they take the dingle pop?
This is actually right. This is actually what it is. The free is pretty
Uh, there's something to do with the thrombus. There's definitely a thrombus at one point
I have to rub the flame against it because the flame has all of the flame juice
Oh, yeah
Where else
Yeah, they caught the
There's several hizzards in the way
And then it was something like they take the dingle pop and push it through the grumbo and then they shave something away
I think that's 100 accurate
Yeah, pretty sure it is
I I got I got pretty encyclopedic rick and morty knowledge
Okay, so the the objectivity and subjectivity cherubs with me but oh it's it's weird fuck
I don't know why you did I I was just about to say to focus on the cherubs because it's weird that
We think like that. So on the if you if you will stare at that cherub's ass on the top, right?
There's a tattoo on the left cheek
That says gen 1932
gen 19
Genesis night is wait, is that a bible for genesis? Oh, um
Genesis 1932
Oh my good, okay, uh genesis chapter 19 verse 32
Come let us get our father drunk with wine so that he can sleep with him and preserve his line
Oh my goodness. That's the part where they get
um
Moses not not moses. Noah. This is after noah. They get noah drunk. So he'll
Fucking impregnate his daughters. Oh my
Oh
Oh, no, this is a wholesome children's podcast
But it says tism subject tism subjectivity, oh testament I tell you it has moments
massive
And uh, as some someone knows as well. Some of these icons are um
The ones from their like channels and stuff but some of them are just custom made
Uh, which is really cool
Different ones are like redrawns
Um
That's the one that pops out there's critical one
The southpaw one has been redrawn the chase face one I think might be redrawn
Yeah metals definitely yeah southpaws is
Who is that, uh, who's that above or
Above the mechanical owl. Okay, first off the mechanical owl. Where's that? I know it's from the movie
But is that a meme that we I don't remember a reference thing
Oh, wait, maybe it's about that super chat. We got a couple times about how does an owl swim through a tree?
Remember that
I was only referencing my head about hours
It's from the clash of the titans, um, I've just noticed a good rat
Oh, yeah, sorry to interrupt. That was actually a scene with lot after sovereign gamora and not noah. Oh
That okay, yeah, I know noah was an alcoholic. So I thought that was why they oh shit. Sorry. Jeb's on the milk carton
Oh, there's jab missing jab 1.2 billion percent
Oh that milk carton is like four and one it's a lot of
Ages and still see new stuff in it. Yep rhino milk missing. Jeb 1.2 billion percent
Oh, man, obviously don's got the mcmuffin that you got a spider in there too. Got to make sure you get that
Moya, what are you got in your jacket there?
That's a joke card. I guess
You got the the alien as well from the gaming streams and uh, I guess he's trying to decipher
uh
Some stuff like hubid language and it says is this pumpernickel rye wheat sourdough?
Oh because we were naming the kinds of bread
Remember that was a god that was a long time ago. Wait, sorry that relates to me
Wait that relates to the else what does that relate to no, no
He's reading the list the the alien is reading the list and the list is types of bread pumpernickel rye wheat sourdough focaccia
because ages ago
That was like bully my first key fat. Yeah, that was a long time ago
That's an ancient meme that one just oh, man
I remember I remember because I remember coming on thinking like having no idea what the podcast was going to be like and then just
There was a point where you were all listing types of bread and I was like
Okay
This is a podcast for me
um
I I do like uh, we got the carl terminator on the opposite side on the left because you know carl
Did we say he's got what looks like a license plate with?
No, it says roof access. Oh, what's that a reference to am I forgetting probably raw?
Oh, yeah, that makes sense
Maybe yeah, it might be uh, I assume so. Oh, there's a skittle. There's a skittle if you look right below it
I remember this. Oh, yeah and a pokeball
and a pokeball
That's a that woman orang there's a kind of weird grace next to j
Wait, where oh, yeah
How are we still seeing new stuff in this spider man that's good that's that good
Um, okay, so there's a slingshot in uh bilbo's outer pocket, I don't know if that's tied to bilbo or if that's tied to a meme
A slingshot, um
Hmm I
Don't know what the slingshot is. Maybe someone mentions that it'll come to mind again
Now there's an alien reading a scroll that have you already talked about that or if i've missed that one. Yeah. Yeah
Below the fucking isle of man flag
The isle of man flag is my fucking favorite
Who's the um, wow who's the guest uh up into the left of the eye the isle of man flag
The jay longbone or is it somebody else?
I do know
I don't know who that is. Is jay longbone is she on any of the others?
Other that might that might be her if
Oh my god, I didn't even notice kyle ben until now. Oh, yeah, he's in the frame
That's a portrait of him because he's one of the ones that kicked off the meme war like he just memes yeah
kyle ben
Um, oh people are saying it's related to goliath the slingshot
Slingshot is related to goliath
Slingshot goliath a lot of different people are saying it
I think that was the fucking face that the cosmic chicken is making it look so proud of itself. Yeah
This is the cosmic chickens work, right? Yeah
Goliath slingshot
I don't even really remember that
I remember goliath, of course, but the slingshot part I don't
And yeah, we totally we can't remember every meme we do our best
Oh, we got the massive missile
Oh, yeah, that's on my right arm. Yeah, is it a rocket or man, but I don't actually really know what it is
Yeah, not sure what the armband is. Oh the sling of shot. I guess is the
Slingshot
Have you guys pointed out the jj mcguffins that uh, the don is holding jj mcguffins. I believe so. It's got a porg on it
They're poor porg nuggets
Splears, that's like I keep thinking. Okay, clearly i've noticed everything about this now and then seeing something else
But now i've clearly noticed everything
Yeah, I I the watermelon though. I I can't call the watermelon
Yeah, there's a couple we're lost on but I mean it's it's amazing work, um
wonderful and a nice sort of
This is where you can send people
Possess the sling of shot. This is where you can send people when you're like, they're like, what does he have about you'd be like this
Oh, this is great
This is insane
like I didn't want to pour over it too closely because I figured we'd look at it but just kind of going all around and
I mean wolf's got pine wolf has pineapples on the pizza
What does he said about that is he okay with that
Oh, I hope so. Or is it just a reference to the fact that that was discussed
Because I don't know I thought
Is wolf okay with it? I can't remember
Maybe there's lots of ways to interpret it. Maybe he's not okay with it. Or is he right?
Yeah, that's the question
And um, and there's a the snitch from harry potter the golden snitch and the top left
The snitch next to the stitch the watermelon could be a reference to my first tlj video
Oh, yeah, it could yeah, then bridle the rage
Page
Yeah, cid nickelson, uh, i'm assuming he's
Got some kind of page in some way shape or form. Maybe where he does this this work professionally or whatever, but it's amazing stuff
Yes, it is um
And yeah, I guess
We will uh, we will carry on with us. That's our intro 45 minutes. We did it. Let's see how there we go
We will move on to the first 45 minutes in fucking hell
You know, but before we continue I just gotta thank you guys for introducing
You know j paladin's content because i've watched some of her videos and they are amazing
Fully awesome
Is aidan paladin? Sorry. Yeah
Yeah, no, she's uh
She was a wonderful guest the research
Yeah, the research she puts into her video is just insane and we are a big fan of research here
Oh, yes
That's why we like you should yeah, I mean
Thanks
Um, but yeah, you know you're that's an easy segue guys watch
So yeah, we like like research to like, uh, you know accuracy and we like expression of of those things through. Um
opinions
That's what we're gonna be talking about today
In a in a opinions, so so um
The first there's two youtubers we cover well three youtubers are covering actually
And um, we'll do our best to get through it, you know at a reasonable pace
This is even yeah. Yeah, of course. Uh, here is the link to jump right in
We will be covering arlo now, uh fringy you probably have a better context for this than I do in terms of what's going on
But it's something to do with pandas
Sorry
Oh pandas right for this video. Um, yeah, so yeah, I was just gonna say like the what I understand is that um
New zelda game came out. He was unhappy with the art style and a lot of people. Ah, yes
Awakening. Yeah. Yeah, and like he made statements and he got frustrated that he was getting flack for it. Was that it?
Um, well what I think it was was uh, so yeah
So because video is alo who's a youtuber that i'm subscribed to and largely enjoy I just guess put that preface out first
Um, I actually really like his presentation style too with the puppet thing
Like it's actually pretty creative
But um, yeah, no, it was uh links awakening was coming out and the big sort of
discussion that was happening, uh with that game was the art style because it has a sort of uh
It sort of looks like a toys kind of thing toys come to life. Uh art style lots of um
Simple simple looking character models, but some really detailed texture work and things like that. Um, and the discussion was sort of surrounding
Innovative art styles because when nintendo does it it's generally they generally do it. Well, um
the the usual examples would be um
I think the first example would be yoshi's islands because uh
That's got a storybook kind of art style and miyamoto really pushed for it and that game looks incredible to this day
um, and then of course the other obvious contender is um
Uh wind waker because when wind waker came out, I think a lot of people were expecting it to really push a um
realistic thing to sort of follow in in the way of uh ocarina of time and majeura's mask and
retrospectively we all realized that they made a really good decision because uh,
Wind waker is pretty timeless. And so with the discussion regarding this game
I think that was the same point that people were trying to make it's like, I don't know man
Maybe we should like nintendo generally does a good job. So
And this looks pretty good. And I think um, I think it was the the whole video was brought about because of this discussion of um
people's opinions on the art style of uh of lynx awakening
And that's what that's what sort of spawned this video and and unfortunately it's not a very good one. Well, uh
That will remain to be seen we're gonna use it as a vehicle to talk about his ideas on uh opinions and some other things
Is everyone in to the wash together?
Oh, sorry. I yes my call of duty. Hold on
God, this this fringy guy man. So unprofessional
Can I um, no plug my petition. Oh, yeah, go for it. Oh, yeah, it's for a good cause
Yeah, all right. Sorry. Do you want to just give you give like a summary of what happened with that and then end with the petition?
uh, yeah, so
Um a lasty fat was lasty fat that we talked about the bullshit stuff
You the efap before that
Okay, so when we covered no bullshit and his comments on efap and on me I made a full video breaking down
brooks's comments and showing how they're just like
Objectively false in like incredibly very very obvious ways
I say the opposite of what he claims I said
And I I have a video on that
uh, so today
Um brooks was taking snipes with me on twitter where he went after nothing but my appearance
And like yeah, that's basically what what is that goofy? Yeah
Um, oh, yeah, and the fact that i'm like, you know what? I think the trans people they're good
Not as a uh, not as a not better than anyone a controversial tank
people
out
his fucking tweet his tweet was like, uh
fucking
Um, his tweet was like, oh if someone's saying this no wonder they have a problem with my content
I'm like, dude, I don't think you realize that's a cell phone
Yeah
What do you think of course he doesn't know that it's no because he's an idiot
Imagine saying that thinking you're defending yourself
Um, but in that video I just I throw a joke comparing brooks to a guinea pig, right?
Because you know, that's like he kind of looks like a guinea pig
He's got little like the chubby cheeks and the teeth, right?
He looks a little bit like a guinea pig sort of he's skinny like yeah
And so and I also made the point that like clearly no bullshit is a a classic case of uh, poor branding
So I made uh the suggestion that he should change his profile picture
Uh to a picture of the guinea pig from g force the film g force 2009. Has anyone seen that? It's really really good
Wow
I know that you're the first person to say it's the perfect film. It's the perfect film. Okay. No nothing better
uh, it's a masterpiece
but uh
I made a petition and it's
for brooks to change his profile picture
to the picture of a guinea pig from g force and um
so far
49 people have signed it
Post in the chat people can assuming it lets you if I don't know if I can post links in the chat
So yeah, everyone sign this we need to go up by no i'm not allowed
I'm not allowed at me on the chat like say something
If I can i'll just mod you and then you can do it
Uh, but I this this petition needs to go straight to the top
So I need everyone watching right now to sign it immediately. Oh my god
Uh, he needs to do it. It's we need to make it law
He's now you can post the thing off
Excellent. Thank you. Mugely. Oh, that's my that's my not name
But true name everyone sign sign now. It's very important. It's crucial
If we can get this done, you know
Saving youtube one step at a time is all i'm saying
Thank you for allowing me I don't know what you mean, I don't know what
Uh, we've just got 100 signatures i'm very proud of this community. Oh, wow
No petitions are gay exactly. That's why we have to use it on him. He thinks everything's gay
You have to reinforce it. Um
Petitions aren't gay if you say no home after signing them through. Yeah
All right, so uh, yeah, that was a fun saga but um
Back to this. So like I said, uh, this this shouldn't be as frustrating as like your typical stuff
But we're mostly just gonna let it play. I think it's only like halfway through the video that um,
We have to go up to because he changes topics
Um, and he's going to give us some context at first as well. But uh, yeah, here we go. Is everyone ready?
Yeah, I suppose i'm ready to begin this journey. Excellent. Yep
Hello my friends, I hope you are well today i'm here to talk about zelda
But alas, this isn't a celebratory reaction or a classic retrospective or a three and a half hour long review
But a close look at the controversy surrounding the art style of the upcoming links awakening remake. Oh, that's right
Alo is a bit of a long man. He did a three and a half hour review on uh, breath of the wild
That's actually a pretty good review. It's a pretty good review. So, uh, yes
Yeah, man good am I the only one who didn't know he was a puppet
Ah, well the thing is because i'm probably the only one who subscribed to him
I have to admit that took me a little off card. What was very diversity fat will cover anybody. Uh,
Puppets are allowed. Well, I mean we've had puppets on
Yeah, that's right. Yes, we have true
Puppy represent inclusive podcast pretty cool
It's time to listen to a dissipation from cookie monster. Let's go. Absolutely. Uh, I don't think he likes it when you say
I don't think he likes it
It's clearly the same to me shows in a puppet. It's clearly like the fucking cookie monster
Oh, well i'm just i'm just kidding
It's just like I think in a video that he made recently he mentioned like yeah, really cookie monster
But I think he was trying to avoid that
Because well this everyone's destroyed it. How do you even avoid the comparison though you
Well, you don't because it's very much like it's not like a muppet's puppet, right?
This is definitely a straight appropriate. This is like just seeing obama and saying oh look it's will smith. Haha
It's not it's not it's you can't do that. I'm fairly racist
Yeah, well, yeah shadows just like oh, they all look the same. It's like shad really they just have blue fur
Wow, just
Wow
What are what are some racial stereotypes so you can apply people with blue fur?
like cookies
Yeah, they're agitated
They make he likes to get richly motivated genocide
I don't I don't come up with this stuff. I just report. I don't know if it's an accurate stereotype, but
Well, I mean
Have you heard about what's going on in puppet world?
No, there's a lot of puppet drama
I envy you one. Come on. It's on trial. Yep
Virginia side
For selling like, uh, you know cookie dough, you know illegally
This kind of thing from was the cookie dough poisoned like it was going
Oh you expect it from oscar now, why would you say that what just because he's green fucking hell rags
No, because he's he's he lives in the garbage and he's made a homeless people commit genocide. Okay
Yeah, yeah, maybe they do say it but I inferred it
It's because also he his title is the grouch
I would expect a grouch
Some grouchy people commit genocide
I would expect them to more than like people who are just known for their love of cookie people who are having a great day
Probably not going to commit genocide
It's probably
Two people climbing up a ladder in modern warfare and like I don't want to brag but how the hell did they not notice me
Why would that be? I'm very proud of this
Because
You're highlighting how stupid they are
No, but it's how good I was because I aim so well you aim so well at two guys on ladders. Yeah ladders move
I I was on the ladder
You know the pistol that's a lie
Oh
Two guys on the ladder, okay
And you shot him off the ladder like you killed the ladder
No, I no goddamn it. No. All right, move on
You are a ladder
All right, then to sweat to segue then I have a problem with him being a
Puppet, uh, it could be a creative decision. We'll just have to wait and see
I'm sorry. That sounds so much like you're genuinely responding to allegations of being racist
I don't have a problem with him being a puppet
I I have puppet friends, but yeah, he's a puppet friends. I don't know what they're talking about
I will I have one puppet friend
And in the art style of the yeah, yeah, you need to get more puppet friends. Apparently. I mean his name is token
But uh, oh shit
We'll just move on move on
Upcoming links awakening remake. That's right. The internet is currently split down the middle
The zelda community is up in arms twitter is aligned with savage feud. It's about the way it looks
Yesterday's that's pretty shallow
I mean talking about it looks like a bunch of dookie and you know
I think these I think he says later these are made up right for me, but he's just trying to highlight
Yeah, i'm pretty sure these were made up. Yes, because they're obviously very bad arguments, you know
for a position that most people
18th february 2019 from earth like uh, yeah
Yeah
Physical fights have broken out
Okay, literally none of that is true, but I am seeing a lot of arguments about it and it all yeah, it looks great
It looks so good. This is what I mean. It's gorgeous. It's such a good looking game that I uh
It's probably the best looking game on switch to be honest with you even from a technical
It's great, isn't it? Yeah, that is absolutely charming. I think it's adorable
That is exactly that is
I remember because yeah, it was like it was like fucking it feels like it was half a year ago when me and frame
You first check this out. Um
I remember talking to you about tilt shift, right?
Like it feels like a board game and they've done a really good job of simulating that
A living board game. Yeah, it's uh, it's I mean nintendo is really good at uh doing because yoshi's woolly world looks really great. Uh
And yoshi's crafted world look really great
They're really good at like doing real life stuff
In video games. It's it's strange because they're not known for graphical fidelity
But it just looks so good such a great art style
Yeah, um
And and now you'll have the context for uh the arguments coming up soon because that's what it's mainly about
It's just the way this game looks. Yeah, the heck out of me
It brings up all sorts of questions about what zelda games should look what way perhaps more interestingly though
It calls into question the nature of opinions in the world of video games, which we almost unanimously deem an artistic medium
So let's dig into this whole thing and answer some questions
Is this wind waker all over again are people hating on the art style simply because it's different?
Oh, yeah, if you'll remember because even I remember this wind waker had detractors of being like this looks like a fucking shitty cartoon
That sort of thing. Uh, it was like now they all look like wrong
Right the first sell the game to be like that, right? It's cell shaded
That's the style and it's a style that loads people love and to define that a style is bad
You're gonna have to bring in some arguments and arlo does for this one
I don't remember them being very agreeable. But hey, we'll check them out
I feel like he's already trying to set up a straw man
He made a statement and didn't you know, like qualify the quantum
It's like well, you unanimously agree that get, you know video games are an art form and like, okay
Subjectivity there. Oh, yeah, you get the implication is if it's art that means this is going to be subjective. It's like, uh, wait
There's no objective standards that you can apply to video games
Choices then yeah, the thing is video games in particular like with movies and stuff
I can understand why people have this subjectivity thing
But with video games like if the game doesn't work, that's not like my fucking opinion
You know what I mean? Like if I fall through the geometry, that's not my opinion
If uh, if it runs at like someone enjoys it bringing anything or someone enjoys that but that's what we mean
What what they enjoy is irrelevant. I could enjoy getting killed over and over again at spawn
That could be like my thing, but it doesn't mean anything
You know different
Yeah
It's it's because just generally it's it's such a sneaky way to try and go about um, yes
By state by stating something the universal standard that everyone just agrees with let's move on and it's like well
Hey, hang on. Hang on. That's actually rather sneaky. Like is it that because by stating it's an art form
That doesn't mean it precludes it from being uh, you know
many other things that objective stands to be applied to and I
Say, yeah, it's just like I want yeah
Well, the thing is it's uh, it's interestingly like not an opinion. I think is shared by developers
I watched a um
I watched a an audio commentary from two developers who worked on ratchet and clank 2 and I was talking about a puzzle that
they designed on a mac tar resort level and um
The developer was talking about how badly he messed it up
And the fact that like everybody recognized that it was a really poorly designed, um thing
And it's like if the developers can recognize when they've done well or poorly by some sort of standard
What you're going to disagree with them like this is their job
I don't know like
I mean, that's the thing i'm willing to hear the argument. So if someone had that position, it's just going to be tough
That's all also, um, I have linked the fan art
uh
We showed the big billboardy one at the top of the description now
I think some people wanted to see it and I didn't foresee that because i'm a dumb dumb, but i'm just gonna check
Is it is it there? Yes, it's there now
You can click that to find it
Okay
Is it okay to dislike how the game looks let's find out only slightly no and yes there
We found out video over. Okay. No, I guess we should go a little bit deeper than that
I've got some opinions about the art style and some reasons why someone might not find it ideal
But first let's touch on the whole opinion thing, which is what spurred this video in the first place
This is one of those topics that i've wanted to talk about for years now
So it's nice to finally be given an opportunity in the context of you know, nintendo and the switch and all that
I have a pet peeve when it comes to opinions and it's extra aggravating because I feel like this should be obvious
This is a conclusion that I feel like everyone should eventually come to not a great way to start
Um, yeah prefacing that you guys should have agreed with this
You don't need to do that it should be honest what you're about to say
Well, yeah, if he says like one plus one is two you'd be like, well, okay
But I want to even measure that point. Well, the thing is disagreeing with that
From from what I remember he says something that I kind of agree with later on
But it's the way he's tied it into this discussion. I don't really like
Um, but we'll see that when it comes up
I feel like this should be obvious
This is a conclusion that I feel like everyone should eventually come to but for whatever reason it's not there's a way to keep
A conversation slash debate respectful and prevent it from turning into an argument and it's this
Um, because there's a way to keep a debate respectful to prevent it from coming an argument
An argument is an argument. Yeah, an argument is not inherently just for sorry, mate
You think the other person's?
Probably wrong. I think it's a connotation
At the time. Yeah, like uh, you know how people say like, oh they got into an argument yesterday or something like that
You'd be like what they almost are saying instead is though those those guys had a very unproductive battle almost
It has connotation to it. Yeah, like the but on its face having an argument
Fine as you you'd make arguments in a debate. Typically, it's just a weird phrasing I guess
Shouldn't have that stigma, but it does correct
Reason it's not there's a way to keep a conversation
Debate respectful and prevent it from turning into an argument and it's this
When you disagree with someone state your opposing opinion instead of attacking theirs
Oh pull it back to uh, like 138 or earlier and we'll let it play for you
Oh, wait, i'm ahead of you as well then
Oh
What because if I pull it back it might not pull you guys with me
So if you guys do it one of you guys instead i'll pull it back. All right 133 now
Yes, uh, give it a second. Oh wait mine's on 138
Yeah
Someone state your opposing opinion instead of attacking theirs. Oh, well, anyway, I can just read that
He said when you're making an argument state your opposing opinion instead of attacking this
uh, I like
For example, yeah, for example, I like john wick and someone goes I don't like john wick
That's what he thinks they should do instead of saying you shouldn't like john wick. But the problem is
It depends on what they say
If yes, you need more substance here if you can't test someone's opinion it is there for impossible to falsify any statement
Well, that's it's it's kind of a state you need to go about arguing by never
Trying to prove or see if someone's correct or incorrect because the thing is attacking them
The thing about if you got an opposing opinion surely it's diametrically opposed right potentially if it's diametrically opposed then you kind of like
You kind of have to
That's what I make by depending on what people say. So for example, um
Uh, kiana reeze is a terrible actor in john wick and someone goes he's an amazing actor in john wick and it's just like
Well, then one of you
Maybe like inaccurate here. Um, but with something a little bit more specific
You can say something like um, it was never set up that x thing happened and you go. Yes
It was it was in this scene and they go. No it wasn't that seems blah blah and it's like
Oh, you've already broken the rule because you guys are attacking each other's positions now
And this also depends on what exactly is the claim that they're making whether or not it's like a positive claim
Like they're asserting that something is, you know in the affirmative
um in which case that you can attack it to take it down because you don't have to have a
Position that's keep counter to it. You you could be completely
Yeah, you could be completely apathetic to it in every way. But if you're in a conversation like that
Then you could attack what they're saying and that would be the argument
And similarly, it's also a matter of wondering whether or not this is a subjective or an objective opinion
And uh, go ahead see you got mola. Oh, well i'll be quick. I swear
So i'm just going to say uh, if they you can test and experiment their perspective without even being
remotely hostile as in they're talking about something i've never heard of and they make a statement about it that I don't really care about like, um
Uh, nathan filian has never been a part of the destiny franchise and then I go I check the imdb page. She's there
Like I don't care one way or another but now i've just tested their argument
It's not it's not holding up to scrutiny, you know
I mean and if they saw that with confrontation i'll just be like what I just don't understand what you're saying
I don't know where you've gotten it from. That's well, I think uh,
I think his position is from the position that all of the takes are equally valid
But I think we know that that's not true
Like if I said that uh, if I said like the legend of zelda is a pretty bad first person shooter
It's like okay
That's that's a pretty bad like that's that's worthless at that point surely
Let's take the let's take the idea of if you're if we because this is essentially kind of in the realm of debate strategy
um
But let's say somebody says
Um, I believe that the earth is flat, right?
That would be different than someone saying I don't know if the earth is flat as their statement
So you can't you can't attack their lack of knowledge of something, right?
You can't you can't go on the offensive
About them saying I don't know if something is true or I don't know something
But if they're asserting that this is the way it is or if they're making a statement of belief
Then that's something that you can go after you have something to actually grasp on
Well, I guess um, this is really it's interesting that the way that he framed turning a debate
Into an argument is to attack the other person's position. But if
That's what i'm gonna bring up. Yeah, okay. Go go ahead then. Well, it's something very fundamental
Uh more fundamental in what is saying here?
And again, it's one of these things where he stated something as it's a it's just a given where everyone agrees with it
And he doesn't even qualify it when which he frames this that in the context that if you disagree with someone
He is claiming that as an attack and that premise alone needs to be challenged and it's a big problem
I actually find with a lot of people who are over sensitive where they perceive anyone who disagrees with them
As a personal attack therefore their enemy and that is a big problem just in the world
It's screws of communication
Yeah, absolutely. It's like when I disagree with you i'm not attacking you personally. Okay. I'm not calling you an idiot
I'm saying I think you're wrong for xyz
And I want to show the reasons why and he's just taking it for granted that it's an attack
That alone is a huge problem because from his perspective going forward
I'm expecting now that he is going to perceive
General arguments as bad and disagreements as personal attacks and that's a big problem
Well, I what I find interesting is um, if you've ever done formal debates
Um, i'm not sure how it works in other countries
But when I did formal debates when I was in school the structure was like so you got you got two teams and there's three people
So the first person on team one starts they lead they don't they don't rebut anybody. They just lead the person who follows them
Generally what they have to do first is rebut the arguments that were presented by the first person
So that is how a debate works and you were saying that that's not how it works
It's just it's you're unfortunately like that's a that's a debate format
I was going to say there are debates where the two people don't freaking acknowledge each other which is frustrated. Oh, sure. Sure
It's I personally don't like those. Yeah, I don't like there are formal debates where you rebut other people's arguments
But arlo's just said that that would turn it into an argument
It's like but it's it's literally a formal debate like we want to debate not an argument and like okay
What all right, how are you meant to talk if you don't address what other people say?
I mean he probably contradicts this own rule because he probably does this in this video
Like what constitutes an actual attack and I say actuals almost like a meme i'm just like, you know what I mean like an attack
like we really you know
but yeah, well
It is what how you define what an attack is because attacking an argument is not a an attack against a person
And so you should not perceive it as a personal attack when your opinion is attacked and that's the that's the big issue that
I find a lot of overly sensitive people have there's like you're attacking me
No, i'm just arguing. Yeah an attack attacking only really works too when there's um
When it's either one thing or the other, right?
um
So is I guess in the frame of this video it would be you know
This style is good for zelda this zelda game. This style is not good for this zelda game
so
If you were if it has to be one or the other it can't not be
Something else it has to be one of the two. So in that sense if you attack the other side then you would
probably
Lend it to yourself. It would help convince them that you're correct
Because if it's not them it's got to be you it's not like there's a third option floating around
Well, I think the idea is um, or at least the theme with the video from what I remember is we can all just agree to disagree
Which i'm not content with
Yeah, I mean
It I mean what's the point of talking if we're just going to disagree, you know what I mean?
Yeah, the only way that would be a reasonable
Resolution to an argument is one that really is just a matter of like taste
Right because that's something you you cannot convince other people
of that
Because that's based on an actual physical personal experience or a completely subjective preference
Like you're not going to convince somebody who likes pineapple on pizza that it's disgusting
You did this. That's not how it works
It's like a nate. Correct. You know, I I will say though
It's still morally wrong disgusting
Like it is morally objectively ethically disgusting up an apple on pizza. That's my stance fight me
It's pretty reprehensible. I gotta say I mean it tells you a lot about the character. They're probably a garbage human
I'm with the puppets on this one. Yep
Anyway, let's see where this goes. Oh, uh, yeah, there's a way to keep a conversation. So wait, what time is it for you?
133?
132 for me. Oh, yeah
Within a second to be fine. Yeah
All right
Betful and prevent it from turning into an argument and it's this when you disagree with someone state your opposing opinion instead of attacking theirs
You know that comic that just let people enjoy things one
Well, that goes for the opposite too. People are allowed to dislike something you like and you're very much allowed to think
I like that. I like that position though. I hate this
Okay, go. All right
We might be talking about different things. Yeah. Yeah when yeah what i'm talking about
Is the whole you're if you're disagreeing you're not allowing them to have an opinion quit that. Oh, right
Oh, so you win that fucking bullshit i'm sick of hearing that i'm sick of hearing this garbage nonsense
Because you hear it all the time it pops up. Let people enjoy things. It's like first off
I don't have the I don't have the ability
To take away their enjoyment. I don't have that kind of power
And i'm not saying that they can't feel this way me saying that they're wrong is not saying that they cannot be wrong
Well, you're not saying some feelings are wrong when you make an odds of because your feelings
How can your feelings be wrong? You know what I mean? Like your feelings are what they are
I don't know
I want to push back a little bit on what you're saying there rags
um
Because if someone says they like something and it's really bad and you dislike it because it's bad and you explain
Why I think even like it takes
Usually usually on average I find when you explain this bad and stuff like that
You can diminish the enjoyment someone else is having in something by explaining how bad it is and they're like, oh
Wow, you know that no you're what you're doing is you're convincing them of something you're not forcing anything on
Yeah, you've convinced them that it's bad. Which is why they're free. They're freedom to listen to you or not
Yeah, my my additional use on it is that
Achieving that changing their opinion on something
Is that they now dislike it where they laughed before is not a bad thing
I actually find it a good thing that people's standards are raised to appreciate better quality
Because that encourages better quality things being made overall and so I feel it's a net good
You know, even if you're trying to say that because of what i've done i've reduced someone's enjoyment in something through even through their own
Acceptance of uh, the argument i've forward they didn't now dislike it
Uh, that's like people seem to assume that
The lack of enjoyment people now have in bad quality things is a bad thing because people's enjoyment is less than just like no
I would rather people enjoy good things not bad things
Yeah, I think um, I think the view would be that it would be preferable if people's point of reference for good content
Was aligned with uh, you know, what we just what is better quality? Uh content, you know what I mean?
yeah, and
If especially if the goal here is to increase the quality of media
Then yes, then you should raise the standards of what people enjoy
Unfortunately, and this is kind of the big issue is that they no more choose to
Not enjoy it that I can choose to make them enjoy it. So neither of us beliefs are not a choice
You don't choose what you believe. They are the result of things
And if you can convince somebody of something that's no more
Your choice than it is theirs. That's just those are results
of arguments made and experiences had
And the way that people's brain processes all that information
So can you make people do things is like it's kind of like saying can you make people offended?
Plus when you when you convince someone that something is bad that something is of poor quality
uh, the more people you've made the more critical and the more people think that way the more likely that that is to influence
how things are actually made and
You'll get better content as a result
I mean look at fucking ea with all that backlash from microtransactions
You know each person you're back who uh
Who you know lashed back on that was at some point persuaded by some kind of
Argumentation or something that microtransactions are a bad thing. Oh, yeah
There there's a reason for why everyone every every belief that we hold is
Based on something right? They don't just form in a vacuum. There's a reason for it. It doesn't mean it's justified
It doesn't mean that it has solid footing doesn't mean that it's correct. But there's always a reason for it
And helping people I think we might be getting caught on definitions because when you say that beliefs aren't a choice
I always feel that there's an element of choice in it
Even if it's based on you know things that you're observing say a logical argument or facts and stuff like that
Well, what if you ultimately would come to it you choose then to agree with the facts?
Because uh, you can't
Um, it depends. How would you define belief?
Well, that's what I mean. I think it's coming down to how like and so belief I would generally try and define as uh
an opinion you hold in something based on
Whatever reasons and sometimes those reasons are valid if they're you know, more objective
Um things you can observe and sometimes the reasons are more
Would bear I say subjective?
Um, and even ethereal you could say but there are reasons behind belief
It's and that can form the choice of why you believe well
I mean, I think uh, I think what I might view isn't it's probably the same as rags
It's like if somebody were to say to me
Uh earth is a marshmallow
You could choose to believe that it's like but i'd just be lying to you because I don't
And no, I don't think you could choose to believe that
I think we assume that in the definition of belief
It means that where you've come to as a result of all these other things that there's no real rights
That's the end point. You didn't choose an alternate end point based on nothing
If you say for instance
Uh that like friends the earth is a marshmallow is a good example, right?
It's not impossible to believe that the earth is a marshmallow. It's not it's not impossible, right?
but
Probably no one believes that because you as much as you say it and as much as you try to convince people
They're not going to be convinced. They're not going to accept that
Uh, I don't know a lot of people believe the earth is flat
Well, I was going into the earth is flat
But it's not more reasonable to believe that the earth is flat than if that the earth is a marshmallow
I would at least it looks flat if you're like you're too stupid to think about anything else
Well, it's not even it's not necessarily. Well, I I wouldn't say it's necessary a matter of stupidity. It can be what it could be
No, no, no, no, no i'm serious
From the beginning to unfold that you know, the earth is a marshmallow and you have no reason to question it
Yeah, that's true. Yeah, it's it's it's a matter of ignorance not
intelligence, necessarily I would say the majority seem to have rejected, uh, you know real science, uh to get to that perspective because
We'll be fully aware of of the same information that we're aware of yeah, uh, typically they're surrounded by
Conventional science and they've decided to reject it
Yeah, well every every flat earth there's an individual and they have their own reason
The the idea is for for whatever reason they are legitimately convinced
That you know, the earth is flat and this could either be um excessive
cynicism and information sources and stuff like that and over-reliance on
Intuition whatever the reasons may be
but our
Acceptance of propositions being true is not something that we can flick on and off like a switch
Um, gee, I don't know see I always feel there's an element of choice in just by the fact that so many people in the world
choose to
um believe things
that
You can argue and argue and present all the facts you can and stuff like that prove them wrong
Objectively in an argument they choose not to accept it because of whatever by confirmation bias or whatever they have
Well, the only person who would the only person who knows certain for certain if they actually believe it is them
Yeah, whether or not they act like it is another thing
But in a sense that you could say to somebody um, just like if I told anyone here in this call
to all right, if belief is a choice that you could
Just turn on and off then just believe gravity isn't real
and you could say that you don't believe in it anymore and you can maybe act like it to others but
You're not going to be able to just stop believing that gravity is a thing
Which is still a choice I would say and the reason why you're choosing not to stop believing is because of the overwhelming evidence
no, no, no, no, no, you you you accept it, but that's not a that's not an
Affirmative actual choice that you are taking consciously, right? You can't just decide
I am no longer going to believe that gravity exists. You can become convinced of it
But your belief in that being a true proposition is going to be the result of the information that you have
Your ability to justify it your experiences and how those are explained to you and other factors
It's not like I just feel yeah, but I feel all those things you just mentioned need to be accepted through choice
No, they can be
Whether or not they well
I would say no
mostly no, at least you can do things
that will influence the information that you're
Given right you can put yourself in scenarios and you can surround yourself with people and you can put yourself in certain
Environments where certain kinds of information will be given to you, right?
so if you were dead set if you if you believe the earth is flat and you believed in it 100 percent
But there was a part of you that was concerned that you might be wrong
Then the then yeah
If you wanted to avoid going to space museums and you wanted to avoid
Learning about aeronautics and you never talked to astronauts and you never went to any of this stuff, right?
You never went to work in these any of that
Sure to a degree you can control the chance of that information being given to you
For instance, if you never ever talked about it if you never went into learning about it, then yeah, sure
But that would be a choice. That's not the belief
You would be choosing whether or not you would be influenced by things that could cause you to believe otherwise
And I was going to say like maybe as an example, this could possibly help
But let's just say a wizard came up to me and said that one of you four
Has killed a person and I have to try and figure out who do I believe it is?
I know it's true, but it's only one of you four. I'd be like I have to guess
weapons
I don't think weapons would really sway me much because I think all of you could get access to anything that could help kill somebody
um, sorry, what's the
what's the
what's the
Question you had?
I don't know. So the premise is that i've been told by wizard that one of you is a killer and i've been asked
Which one do I believe it is and i'm gonna probably think about it for a while. Uh, weigh up some well
I mean, that's almost like step two because you'd have to
Finish
So like i'd be like, okay, um, let's say let's say for the simplicity sake
Chat has access to weapons, but ethically I don't believe you would I don't believe ethically any of you would kill anybody
But could I believe that any of you could be drawn to based on some kind of altercation or?
Uh thinking I'd have to have to weigh it up and eventually i'd be like
Let's say I made a choice to this wizard
You'd be like you believe it's this person
I'd be like based on the fact that you told me that one of them definitely did
And i'm limited here in terms of my resources. I do believe it's that person
And it turns out I could be right or wrong or something
And so could it be argued there that I made a choice to believe somebody or that I believe that it was that person
The whole time and i've explained my reasoning
Uh, yeah, I mean I think um, I think it's just uh when we think about the
The idea of like what is it that you think I suppose it's like, uh, could I ever trace back a point where I?
Like the point where I realized that oxygen was a thing. You know what I mean?
like I don't think I could trace back to any point where I
Had I was presented in my mind with the choice. It's real or it's not
And I was like no it is real and that's my position
It's it's it's like a position that you reach organically
And it's it's um, and I guess it might be tended to the whole free will thing as well
But that's a really big rabbit hole
Even with what you put like for instance
I choose to accept evidence that is more substantive than other evidence and then agree with what that evidence indicates
And so you might be saying I am forming my belief organically based on evidence
But there was an original choice in the way that I structure or in the way how how I structure my beliefs
that's uh, I like that example, I like that example, um
Because I guess the the instance would be like so if we're in court and we have to decide on whether or not somebody's guilty
Of a crime and they present a whole bunch of evidence
Let's take two jurors
So we got one juror who is only concerned about the facts like he is a fax man
And we got another juror who is you know, she's a or he or she
Is it really inclusive for you?
Were you about to say she only cares about feelings
If you're gonna bring if you're gonna be inclusive he she like black white, uh
All right, let's go with they so
All of them, um, okay, let's let's go with so
All right, they're both women. All right, so she so there's one woman who is concerned only with the facts
And there's one woman who is mainly concerned with like, um, I guess how how
You know
There's sort of gut feeling that she has about this and I don't even really think that gut feeling is like invalid
If you know what, I mean, like I think that there's uh, I think that there's a reason why we have a gut feeling
Yeah, but uh is essentially based on evidence that you haven't thought about as hard. Oh, yeah, potentially. Yeah
Maybe maybe don't feeling gut feeling is intuition. It's based on but uh
Your previous experiences and the the biases you've
Further down the rabbit hole we go
Sorry, yeah, but uh, I thought it was originally about um, if it's
So this is why I made sure I made sure to say the beginning that all those videos going to be a vehicle
That means we're gonna go other places
From his video. Sorry. I uh, I there was a little there was a little bit more to that one
So so yeah, we go we got our two jurors one of them. She's all facts and the other one she's all feelings. Um
now
You know whether regardless of what conclusion they reach
Why is it that uh one of them is really facts driven and one of them is really feelings driven
Was that a choice that they made to choose to be facts driven or feelings driven?
Well, was there a whole set of things that happened?
Well, I mean
I think that what fringy was getting at was that those two people had arrived at what?
Work essentially work for them. Your brains are like information processes processing machines
As we get older and as we learn and as we get more experienced that machine gets
Changed hopefully for the better in what information it will accept
And what information it weighs against the other information that's gone through the machine
And the idea is that you normally start when when you're a kid you start with the basic you start really simple
And is as you as you get older and older and older all that information, you know
It's it's built up and it's built up and you can handle better systems and better processes and oh
I I I think I think there's an analogy now actually let let's think about it like uh, like
Who you are is a big jenga tower and you set up you and the blocks get set up and they get set up differently depending on
I don't know
Sort of what direction you head in whether or not I don't know you had parents who are really
Facty sciency people or whether or not you had a bad experience at uh, you know when you're a kid at school a million
Yeah, a whole bunch of variables and they start getting stacked and they just get stacked one by one and then you know 20 years later
You end up with two people who have totally different looking
You know one of them might be a caster one of them might be like a birch calypus skyscraper
And they just got there and you don't know how they got there
Like you can look at the individual pieces, but you can't exactly figure out
What what whether it was because they happened at a certain sequence or whether or not they were arranged in a certain way
Just I don't know as a just because of the way that your life went
And then you end up with two totally different people with totally different belief systems or you know, different
Moral positions or whatever
And it's like it's the sum of a whole bunch of little parts and maybe those little parts were influenced by choice
But what you ended up with was totally outside of your control. It just happened
Sure, you can influence it to a degree, but the things that you influence will ultimately
Give you the result of what you accept is true
What convinces you as part of the machine process that you hopefully hone to be better and better over time
See, I feel that there's an element of choice as to determining what that machine process is for each individual
some uh, maybe yeah, maybe um, I guess it depends on uh
Uh, sorry, i'm you have a hand on the wheel but
ultimately where it goes is not
Entirely up to you like you could you can take certain actions to maybe lead yourself. This is definitely the free will this is definitely
Well, this part this part is the will assuming that we can have free or not we can let's let's just let's assume
We don't have a choice and we have to have free for this conversation
that you
It would be like we we can
If you wanted to um, I think the analogy of the flat earth was fairly good. Like if if you
Accepted that the world was flat and you believe that truly and you never talked to anyone about it
And you never tried to learn anything about it. Then. Yeah, the chances of you
Continuing to accept that is true are going to be a lot higher than someone who
Really wants to put it to the test and does the legwork to learn all the information?
That part is the choice whether they went out and looked that's up to them
But the result is not going to be their choice like i.e
No, no, I think the result is very much the choice
Because people can choose not to agree with all the argument the evidence you put forward and stuff like that
Um, I guess the thing is is uh, I guess what we mean by that
Or at least I think what you mean by that is um, so we have a person who is a flat earther
And maybe they haven't really got a bunch of arguments for it
And then you just dump a whole bunch of facts in front of them. You got pictures of earth
You got you know, you got mathematicians explaining how it works and yet for some reason they're still like nah
I'm not convinced. I don't know if it was a choice for them to say that they're not convinced. I think they
Are earnestly unconvinced
No, I I do believe choices can happen subconsciously
like
Whoa, if I get choices
By many opinions and biases and stuff like that and you might not be overtly thinking i'm choosing it because I want to
but I think um
Every single viewpoint you have is ultimately a type of choice
no, um, I think it might just be a difference of um, how it because
If your view is a subconscious then we might actually like agree
In it like in practicality, but maybe it's difference in terminology. Well, if it's subconsciously, I don't think it's a choice
You don't you don't choose what you subconsciously do
However, that's what i'm not sure that that you do choose what you subconsciously do
Yeah, if it that's the whole thing about being yeah of it being subconscious
Is that you are not actively making the decision to have those things?
But the subconscious one is one that i'd like to think about more. Um
Because yeah, that wasn't uh, this is the definition of subconscious
Of or concerning the part of the mind of which one is not fully aware, but which influences one actions and feelings
Yeah, um, so I guess and the example is my subconscious fear, which is probably a good one because you don't really choose to be afraid
Of something. Yeah, exactly. That's that's yeah, you your subconscious affects you but it isn't something that you have control over
Oh, I think there's something you can control
I guess what i'm saying is that you can have subconscious biases that can affect a choice you make without being aware of
And you can you can deliberately try to alter your subconscious biases by looking like up information. Yeah. Yeah
You can learn how to shape it
but
It's almost like you don't control the product you just control the
guiding of it
Yeah, there's a lot of internal biases that they want to have because they look up information
That they they want to believe yes. Yes, that's probably a good example and and people can still like
people can still believe things contrary to
Um what they might a good example would be let's say someone is
Born and they have very racist parents, right? The parents are very the parents really don't like I don't know
Peruvians or whatever. I hate peruvians, right scum
So you grow up your parents hate peruvians your parents friends hate peruvians
And they fill your mind with all these idea that peruvians are terrible, right?
And then you know, you you leave the house you get out in the world you go to college you meet people you meet peruvians
So like hey, these people are are kind of nice and there's a part of you that's like, oh, but you know this whole
It's almost like indoctrination, right?
How do you fight this this thing that's been drilled into your head even though, you know
You shouldn't hate peruvians are still a part of you that goes yeah
But yeah, you know all that stuff that i've been told for my whole life
It's kind of like that this weird line of knowing you shouldn't believe it but still accepting it is true. Anyway
It's really it's really interesting. Yeah
Um, what a great segue
It's very related to what it's talking about
Which is the initial premise of can you convince someone to like something?
Before that even happens though in whatever context he provides we've got a deal of person a and person b
Person b likes x person a starts espousing positions on the content that changes person b's mind
It's like so what happened was person b st stapled down to the fucking floor like you can you can you can leave
So the idea that it's like how you you've fucked up my feelings now i'd be like you came here like I was
So if so if this conversation starts with like shat if you say, you know
I hate lord of the rings and i'm like what the hell and you go. Hey wait, wait, man
Like, you know, that's just that's how I feel about it
I know that that's unpopular. But like honestly, I don't really want to talk about it. I'd be like, okay
You started it. Well, the thing is right. No, I actually do have to give some people warning
If they say they like the last jedi and when they ask me what I think about it
I have to say
oh, look I hated it and you might not want me to talk about it if you like the movie because
if because I kind of do understand the perspective that some people want to keep enjoying something and
I have the potential to ruin it for them with some pretty solid arguments and
And so that but the the foot side to that is that
I don't necessarily want them to like it if it's legitimate bad
And so I think that's why they're afraid of that kind of having that conversation with like people like us
I mean, I think that I think that a lot of people know
That if they get if they let's say they love the last jedi
There's a lot of people who probably know that if they really sit down
And talk to people like us about it and we go over it for all the reasons
They know they've got this quote unquote fear that
They're going to stop liking it and it's not just a thing they can. Oh, yeah. Well, i'm gonna like it
Anyway, it's uh, it's a funny one because it's sort of yeah
Sort of affirms that uh whether or not you agree with the objectivity subjectivity
As defined by a lot of the people on efap the framework for argumentation seems to be pretty solid if at least
If it still results in the same outcome, which is you not liking it after hearing about all of the problems quote unquote
You know the subjective problems as it were I was on um geeks and gamers stream, right?
I know a lot of them was just
Casually saying like episode three of manta laurin was the best one best best best best and I was like is anyone here
Heard the perspective that it's not the best one out of the three and then they were like not really no
No, and I was like, oh
Well, I don't think it's the best one out of the three they were like
They asked me for like just just you know, any problems I had I was like, okay
Well, and I just gave the um the one where you know
He looks in through the wall and he hears the most important piece of information you could hear to get him motivated to go
Inside the building and I was just like seemed pretty convenient and the second I said that a lot of them were like, oh, yeah
You know like they all recognized that
And now my feelings are starting to change but like i'm always in the position of like
My feelings may change so be it, you know someone if if what if all four of you came at me with lord the rings
It's terrible. I'm like go for it
Well, this is oh, go ahead. There is the of those individuals who can actually acknowledge something as bad and still like it
It seems like so many people
Think that if they like something it has to be good because they like it
And and if you prove it to be bad, you know for very strong objective reasons
Then they're like, oh that means I don't like this or you can still like it
Yeah, I think uh, I think a good example would be uh, I think venom is a piece of shit movie
But I I thoroughly enjoy it. I like to laugh at it. Another good one. This is predator. I thoroughly enjoy
To recognize the difference between the two things because a lot of people if they don't think about it
They probably lump those two things as the same thing
No, no, we're not going to change anything we're just going to say just those are just two separate things
They're not the same clump that you've put them in or that you haven't cared to separate yet
But the thing is uh, I often hear people say i'm pretty sure i've heard alo say it too in other videos where he's like
I'm sure it's really good. I'm just not that interested. It's like you see what you just did there
Do you see exactly what you just did there you recognize that it's still probably of high quality
You just are not interested
So we can separate it
Also, yeah, it was different from not having an interest in pursuing something and then actively disliking it when you try it even though it's good
Sure, but um, it was a new drought extreme
I just wanted to make sure I clarify that and I don't know if all of their positions were that the third is the best
In case I misrepresented anything. It's just that that conversation happened. That's all
Got to cover cover cover your ground, you know, make sure I didn't piss anyone off there
Yeah, uh, should we should we continue with this video?
If you wanted to say something else this is efap fringer you got time
Uh, i'm not sure I think it was um, I think it's uh, because I often say that deep down
Nobody really believes that there's such a thing as they're all
Like he's got footage of our skyward sword
And I know that a lot of people don't like skyward sword
But are we going to pretend like skyward sword is equally as good or bad as custard's revenge?
Are we really going to do that?
Like we honestly got to pretend that they're exactly the same you're saying like down the hate for
Skyward sword might be hyperbolic to a point. No, no, no, no. No, no. No, no what what I mean is um,
Maybe i'll use a better example
So let's take breath of the wild which is pretty widely regarded as one of the best games of the decade
Um, which I think is fair because there's a lot that that game does really well
Are we going to pretend that breath of the wild is as good or bad as custard's revenge?
Does anybody really believe that truly
The one I usually go to is just um the room versus a lot of people used to say the room versus the dark knight
Would often be the comparison
Oh the dark knight isn't is dark knight is quite flawed though. Well, this is the same
Hence what I said what people would often compare
Some people believe the last jedi is the best star wars me. Oh, yes, they do
But what what I mean is are people gonna you know, let's uh, I don't know
Some people believe that if you don't medicate your kids still be healthier
Well, it's it's just the general position that um, I think everybody recognizes to some extent quality and lack of quality
um
And that's that's sort of like a subconscious thing
You know, it's like how people say zelda's a great series and everybody just says it and it's like well
There's got to be a reason for that. Why is it that pretty much everybody says it's a great series and why isn't it?
I can't
Well, they like it
But there's got to be something else besides just liking it because a lot of people like stuff that isn't that good like transformers
Like the michael bay movies
It's like well, there's got to be something so widely accepted as bad. That's an interesting thing to look into actually
I might like even I don't know
Why is it that there are some things that are so widely accepted as good and some things that so widely accepted as bad
I have theories that the transformers came out today
It would still it wouldn't be like oh, no, it's just bad. It would be like so widely debated
I think it only got its reputation as being awful is because it came up before
all of this shit
Well
Something that I find is interesting to try and understand also very difficult is that there are more like
overtly objective things that you can gauge something's quality by and and that's what I think a lot of the angle of that, um
I guess judgment, you know
We take here on efap about like for instance consistency and stuff like that is a really strong one
But then I also feel that there's actually
Another like almost lay out a deeper layer. That's more ethereal than harder to quantify
To determine something something's quality for and I always look to twilight as my example because twilight is universally panned as being horrible
Yet it's insane success
In when I see that
Like informs me that it's doing something right and if you could nail down what that something is
Even though harder to try and define and and this is again if we look at transformers
It's still transformers is wildly popular and successful and maybe it's actually not too complex
Maybe i'm giving it too much credit to try and find out what is it doing right?
That's making so many people like it. Maybe it is the number of explosions and I think it's uh,
I think I think that those two are good examples of tapping into certain innate things that people find satisfying
Let's call it duty
Well, yeah, even if the connective tissue is really bad and yeah, there's big explosions
And yeah, there's a surface level kind of feedback to a lot of things in terms of the senses, you know
What we see what we hear?
Um, yeah
Oh, yeah
If you could get that if you could tap into that then you don't need much beneath the surface because people get that
Enjoyment from something that's kind of superficial in a lot of ways
Yeah, there's a lot of people who like remember when the twilight things were in full swing, man
Those were they made all the twilight fans all the all the what's the new one the uh, the gray?
uh the sex one
The gray sex one the gray sex one
But man, they uh, there's a lot of people love that a lot of people do
A lot of chicks dig. I think I think we know why the this there's such a disconnect with that one
It's the most obvious thing is like
The the demographic that it's for clearly likes it for a very specific reason and you don't need to explain it
No, porn porn in our in in sexuality in terms of what we find
Sexually attractive is is a good thing. You know, he it doesn't matter how deep it is
Well, no, I mean like in terms of uh, you know, i'm genuinely asking
Huh?
I'm genuinely asking
Could you could you make could you do something? Is there like are there standards in porn that could be defined pornography?
And I guess I suppose if it's if it's shot in a way that you just can't see what's happening
But that's like the only standard what if you can hear what if you like that?
Yeah, what if that's what people like that? I don't want to see, you know people who get also, you know
People like to get blindfolded right the problem as well. It's that uh, it's too broad
There are
Crafts there are crafts within porn
As in like it's like you're saying they craft a filmmaking and then we can reference
Okay, so like a script writer a director a editor like which we call
Hey, you know you find it funny, but there's no production to porn
There's a difference between highly produced and lowly produced porn. Everyone knows this
Guys i'm a good christian boy
I mean like when I like different levels of quality of porn
Well, I guess like um, if once we get a definition for pornography
Then we will have a standard by which to judge something as whether or not it meets those criteria
Well, do the transformers movies meet the expectation of what they were trying to achieve?
Uh, what they were probably probably probably what they were trying to achieve sure
If if the quality of the if we want to depends let's use the standard of you know x
And if transformers meets that then yeah, it's objectively good
I would say they're trying to tell a story and the plot I think is fairly incoherent for quite a few of them
So they failed at that. I don't even know how many there are now. There are six
I was gonna guess
There's uh, there's transformers transformers revenge of the fallen which is terrible like much worse transformers ducks of the moon
I think that one's really bad age of extinction, which is the worst one
I couldn't watch that one like all the way through
I don't even know the difference. It's like the it's like all the pirates movies after the first one
They just blend together and dead men's hell no tails
Literally
A guy essentially talked to camera whites about why it's okay for him to bang a 17 year old. All right
That's uh, that's age of extinction
Yeah, he literally printed off and laminated a section from a piece of legislation that says it's okay for him
To be going out with a 17 year old
It's just like what the hell is this movie?
I mean the age of consent is 16 in a lot of places here
I don't know why you have to like laminate because because michael bay has to justify doing what he did
Yeah, wait, hang on. Has michael bay fucked a 17 year old?
No, it's that michael bay
This is michael back fuck to 17 year old. It's that michael bay has put in only only a 17 year old would fuck michael
Well, it's because michael bay again
He's he's not very subtle director, you know
He always has our shots and things and it's like it's always like he has to justify that it's like this is allowed
This is legal. He chose to but that's the thing he chose to make his character 17. I know he did
What's the actor 17?
No, she's uh, hold on i'm gonna double check
That strikes me as the reason they would have that in there
Yeah, yeah, that does make sense. I guess
So transformers age of extinction came out in 2014. Let's assume that it was filmed in 2013
uh
So she would have been like 18 when it was being shot
Who starts to build their voice
I don't know what like I don't get it like
Like
It's so good. That movie is terrible. And then they did transformers the last night where it's like
Oh the transformers met up with like king arthur and mel. Oh, yeah. I was about to ask
Is that the one where they're like apparently they transform into trebuchets or some shit?
Oh
It's like transformers in king arthur I was like nah i'm
They keep retconning the law because in the first transformers movie that was the first time they came to earth
In the second one. It's like no, they built the pyramids 10 000 years ago and the third one. Nope
They were on the moon
And then in the fourth one it's like nope, they killed the dinosaurs it's a cup and then it's like nope
Transformer started the big bang. They're like, oh, okay transformers created the u.s
So anyway
So zelda
Again, I don't know. I don't know if you want to use the the
The contention like I said is
You're ruining people's feelings by fucking addressing their expression of their feelings or something like that, right?
We'll we'll roll him back
There's no way we're gonna get through more than 20 seconds without pausing again, but we will give it a shot right I
Go ahead and hold that for one moment. Let me use the loo and you can talk about I don't know
I'll uh, i'll also take advantage of that. Yep. I'll just say that was a glorious and deep tangent
It was wonderful. Yeah, that is an efap tangent right there. That's probably one of the biggest tangents we've ever had
It was a team. We got into the nature of the you know agency and belief
Which by the way, yeah every conversation every argument will eventually come down to philosophy, right? That's pretty much like how it always works
You you just you keep drilling until you eventually get down to fundamentals
Yep, this pause has lasted for 36 minutes by the way. That's it. Oh, that's wonderful
Yeah, we go to bell and that's rookie numbers. The pause before that though lasted 30
37 to
40 the pause before that was 10 minutes. So, you know, we've we've had
One we've played the video once in the last like 46 minutes
Let's go. The thing is like this is just not a topic. That's going away anytime soon
My favorite thing is when people accuse efap of being like content parasites. They just take up
Because they can't make their own parasites. You don't even like remember what the content they were covering was
We've played more like three seconds of video in 40 minutes
The jenny backlash thing was interesting to observe
Oh
People having no idea what efap is just not understand
I think uh, oh, sorry. I missed all that. What were you just saying?
How the hell did you miss everything and then slam a door go? Well, I think
I don't know. I was I was I was I didn't catch all of it. I caught the end of it
Were you having a conversation with yourself before you got here? No, I wasn't I was putting on my headset
And I was like, oh, what's this what's happening? And then I like got up and closed the door
All right. Uh, well, I mean, I don't know. What were we talking about?
Oh, I was just it's a side comment that I was making that I found the whole jenny backlash interesting about people not understanding
efap at all
Absolutely. Try to comment on what it's all about. It's just like just wait for a dude
I'll put on a twitter thing saying they spent 10 hours on my video. What the fuck?
By the way, brooks has since posted another tweet that he's again deleted
About
Just stop man. Oh, was it the one? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
I don't know. He's got one up there. He's got one up there calling me and my fans vultures, which is still up for some reason
Um, okay that he's got
Obviously, yeah, yeah, this is the way the vultures typically go after what's already dead
I'm trying to imply something there. I don't know. Oh, yeah. Yeah
I mean, I don't disagree with him
It's a tweet where he's thanking literally the person who was defending him singular
Oh
Good on them
We don't know
His wife wouldn't defend him. She knows everyone knobs is married
So don't worry
There you can do it. No, his wife is 3d
Oh
I'm sure they get along very well. I've never seen her. It just keeps saying she's asian and that's the kind of thing
He would say about it
Beauty was certain that she is in that house voluntarily and she wouldn't escape if the doors became unlocked at all
Sure, they have a very happy relationship. There's probably quite a lot of money in that house
Is there
Probably it's possible. Yeah, I don't know social blade by the way sign the petition
I don't want to look at anyone's social. Anyway, you guys want to keep going social blade right now. Yeah
Let's do it
opinion instead of attacking theirs
You know that comic that just let people enjoy things one
Well, that goes for the opposite too people are allowed to dislike something you like
And you're very much allowed to disagree with all their opinions. But when instead of no shit, I'm sorry
I was wrong. Brooks's monthly no, sorry brooks yearly estimated earnings
Are uh, oh, no, never mind. I was reading the lower estimate thinking it was the higher one
He makes a possible 5k to 90k a year. That's that's that's an amount
five
Things are so inaccurate. Just I could have guessed well, no, it's it's definitely going to be somewhere within that range, but
I'm pretty sure it's gonna be anywhere
It probably doesn't take into account how much he gets demonetized because there's no way he doesn't get demonetized a lot
His channel name has literally got shit in it
I don't know
In the video in the title of my video with two of the letter censored
Please so yeah
Yeah, going back to what the uh video was saying it really seems like is trying to say don't challenge anyone's opinions
But even if they dislike and like it just let them have their opinions
So therefore nothing can be falsified
Look at the framing of the comic though
You seem to be this seems to be this like friend who's just sitting next to a guy who's watching football and says
How stupid is and then he's like shush let people enjoy stuff
Um, how who's the one being censored here? Who's the one being stupid the thing is
Well, but like do you know what I mean? Like the logic is hey, let people have feelings. It's like hey, let the man speak
He should be allowed to do that, right
Let him enjoy pointing out how stupid stuff is because that can be really fun
I don't even like I don't know. It seems it seems to go in a little bit too far with this for me
I'm like, how fragile are you? What if I enjoy tearing down your
Things that you know, it's like if somebody came up to me and said video games are fucking shit and you're shit for liking them
It's like, okay
Like I don't know. I like him a lot. You're not going to convince me. Otherwise this again with the context
Like if this is a good friend of mine, i'd be like video games are shit
Why what what's what's your case now?
If this is a random dude at like some party you're at where you're just trying to see the game or something
It's like, you know why video games are terrible i'd be like
Why?
Oh, yeah
Yeah, I don't know like this is overly defensive
Yeah, it's if someone told me that i'd be like, huh
Yeah, you bet i'd love to hear that but if someone knocked if the fbi knocked on my door with a massive pile of papers
And said sit down. I think your father's actually a serial killer. I'd be like, oh fuck
Yeah, it's like just enjoy the knowledge that my dad is a serial killer. Okay, like oh, oh, okay
I probably shouldn't have started that out with and the fbi is knocking on my door
Well that goes for the opposite too people are allowed to dislike something you like and you're very much allowed to disagree with all their opinions
Is that another way of saying this legal or uh morally right? I don't know just saying aloud
What do you mean when allowed it's like when someone's like
We've actually we've actually regressed in the video we've gone backwards
We have yeah
Well, yeah, we'll get there we're getting there. There's just lots of interesting
This is the thing. You can't have this topic without branching out everywhere because this is like fundamental shit
And you know how he began this was pretty obvious
Is it that
Is it so that's the same thing that flat earthers say oh, it's obvious the earth's flat. I mean look do
Well, have you ever been to space rags? I don't think so
Flat earth argument is people saying if the earth is moving. Why are the trees still?
You can't you can't answer that tide goes in tide goes out how do you answer that
Somebody in the comment uh somebody in the comment said that the author of the comic of let people enjoy things
Has said that he doesn't actually like that comic. He doesn't like making it
Why don't he let people enjoy his comic? Why can't he let himself enjoy making his
Let yourself enjoy because you can't just refuse to like things
I do like the idea of like you're you know, you're allowed to to disagree with people
I like the idea of you know, the disagreement police busting down
You can't get on the ground if you want I guess maybe
You know
It makes you feel better
It's all right seem contradictive to a person a says I like cheese next guy says oh cheese sucks
And then that guy's like hey, don't do that like person c's like leave that guy alone
And then person d is like hey person c leave person b alone. He's just sharing his opinion
Let's see what the guy's like. Hey person d leave person c alone
You know what I mean? Like it just goes on forever. No very easy shit
Will we ever decide if cheese is morally good?
Holy shit
In his defense, it seems like he's trying to say, you know people who dislike something aren't bad people they're allowed
Yeah, which I agree with that is not a hot tea. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No
He's coming at this so far from a very
This is the thing like i'm viewing what he said as the uh
The sort of when somebody says I love that movie that's just viewed as okay and positive
But if somebody says I hated that movie, it's like god, why are you so opinionated? Why are you such a dick?
Yeah, which is god. That's that's just a lot people let people like things
so if he's
Yeah, no, go ahead. I was basically done to steelman his point. Um, I'd essentially
interpret this as uh
Oh when someone says says they dislike something that you like it's not a personal attack and you don't have to take it as well
Yeah, I have to hear yeah, we we all agree
This is the thing I don't think um, it's almost like it's an unwritten rule that never gets used like
Just the highlighting the hypocrisy flipping the stakes and for some reason we don't really seem to apply it but that part's fine
I don't disagree with that. I don't think anyone would so we'll let him carry on there's got to be something else
We can uh chew on i'm sure of it too people are allowed to dislike something you like
And you're very much allowed to disagree with all their opinions
But when instead of saying you feel that way well, I feel this way
You say you only feel that way because you such and such you have officially no, no, no
I don't like this framing. I like this. I don't like this
I don't like the angry eyebrows and ah, you only baby
Like no, no, you're you're you're you're poisoning this discussion here. Yes
We've got an example, right? So, uh, no bullshit's like oh my god
I hate this this movie and and then um, there's just loads of women at it
I'd be like is it because you only dislike it because there's loads of women in it
And then it doesn't true like
Yeah, here's another example. Let's say you're playing a multiplayer game
I was actually I was playing more and how earlier and there was a guy in the game
He's really low level and he's like man
I'm I'm having a lot of trouble learning this game's mechanics and i'm new I have so much to learn right and so
In the chat we asked him. Did you play the tutorial?
And maybe you don't like the and he said no and he said maybe you're having a hard time
Because you didn't play the tutorial, right?
That's not us being like angry eyebrows and maybe fucking dicks to him or anything
We're just like maybe you think this because duh duh duh
Maybe your opinion is informed because of this and not the other thing
Or maybe you're just ignorant about some kind of topic or information. I think the uh, the thing is right
Like if if we were to say that in the discussion just inferring somebody's intense angrily like yeah
That's probably not great
But the issue is that you've sort of framed it as though that is the only way that you can disagree
Like you know what I mean?
Like I can attack your argument without saying you only like it because this or that it's like oh, come on
Like we don't have
Just pointed out there either the framing scene he seems to be implying that when people disagree
It's either the majority of people are disagreeing and then
Assuming people's intentions based on their you know, yeah, that's the issue
Yeah, you didn't like the last jedi because you hate women, but I will say
Is it like, you know, what if you have like clean evidence of someone's preferences that are what you would call morally objectionable for example?
Someone just hates black people and they're like I couldn't enjoy black panther
And they're like I think it was just like that it was stupid and then you're like, well you hate black people
So it doesn't surprise me that you didn't enjoy black panther
You know, would that be a fair statement or is that is that rude or
I'd say that's perfectly valid. That's that's
Well, it's um trying to figure out the attention behind someone's opinion based on certain facts that you know, and so
Using them of you don't like this because you're that you actually have a bit of background knowledge, uh, you know substantiate
The thing is I uh, I I am sort of of the view that it's probably a good idea to try and not infer
Somebody's intent behind their position because I think that's where a lot of people go wrong
They're like, oh, well you you must you know be this political leading because you said that and it's like that
Come on, you know what I mean?
But but in this instance, it's the framing of it as though that is
You know, that is what it means to attack somebody's attack somebody's position, you know
And people need to remember that when people have opinions
They might not even they in fact, it's probably not uncommon at all
People don't know why they have the opinions that they do
so that it's not unreasonable for someone to be like I
Think this but I can't really articulate why I do
So you don't just have to start simple and work through it with them
Yeah, this is obviously framed as very attacky and asumptive of their uh,
Intentions and and motivations. So this is like, okay, so this guy's an asshole
It's not about the fact that he's disagreed with the perspective
yeah, this is the execution of the discussion that the real issue is
I mean if you're gonna if you're gonna jump down someone's throat for no reason
Yeah, you're you're a dick and you shouldn't do that because if for purely pragmatic reasons
It's because if you're a dick to people they're gonna want to there's instantly like that barrier that pops up
I don't want to agree with you and i'm gonna treat everything that you're doing is bad faith
And i'm gonna value it less because you're being a douche to me
And even if I do start to agree with what you're saying, i'm not going to show it
I'm not going to act like it just out of spite to you
And uh, I think you can tell this is very informed by the fact that he shared
That he doesn't like the look of the new game online and he's been receiving a lot of you don't like it
Because you have a preference for the uh realistic graphics or whatever
Which he does so it's not even inaccurate. He does have a preference for it
Yeah, that's correct
If he thinks everyone everything's subjective and someone's like well, you just don't like it because of your preferences wouldn't he be like, yeah
Yeah, well, yeah, that's true. Yeah, you don't like it because of your preference. That's true
That's almost like tautological. He's gonna make a couple of arguments
I remember there are in this video of the yes, he's gonna criticize straight up the style at some point. We will get there
All right. I feel this way you say you only feel that way because you such and such
You have officially and irreparably broken the conversation. You've turned it into an argument. You've made it personal
There's that whole dumb thing that oh you have freedom of speech to state your opinion
Well, i've got freedom of speech to criticize that opinion. Oh, well, then i've got freedom. That's not done
That's not dumb, but that's true. Yeah, i'm fine with that
He said you've broken the thing you've done this like, okay
It's not irreparably damaged if someone like straight up says like, you know argument, uh, counter argument argument counter argument
You're a fucking idiot. You go, okay
Can you actually counter the argument and then you carry on?
I'd be like that that was a moment of them damaging the conversation to a degree sure, but you can recover
It's it's really on
You know like to say that it's like it's all over the second you you imply any kind of personal bias like what?
No, you can carry on. I mean it happens to us all the time
If someone says something like um on twitter like maula didn't like captain marvel because he hates female protagonists
I'll be like right then like that's a personal attack
It's implicit that i'm a fucking sexist
All i've got to do now is provide examples of where i've praised female protagonists, uh in film
We'll have favorite examples. I can do that. I could choose instead to be like i'm a sexist you've destroyed this argument. I'm out
He's also assumed or is also trying to state that assuming motive for an opinion is an attack
That's kind of what is trying to yeah, which is not necessarily true
No, it's not
No
Yeah, it's it's very I I would never I would certainly
You're trying to avoid it. Yeah avoid it
It can be when you say you just have that opinion because you're an idiot or because you hate women stuff
That's that attack but not in every instance if there's actual reason and you know evidence
Yeah
Because because imagine if uh if somebody said I don't really like xcom2 and it's like is that because you just generally don't like
Strategy games there's nothing wrong with that. Yeah, that's just fine
Yeah, maybe you maybe you have a preference that just isn't this genre
Maybe you maybe just don't particularly like the genre. Maybe other genres of games are for you
I want to put this to the test
I want you guys to assume my motive because i'll state something that I think you'll find interesting. Sure
I did not enjoy the joker
closeted homosexual
Of the apex gay
Um
So did you actually not enjoy the joker? I actually I didn't find it an enjoyable film
That doesn't mean that I don't think it's a brilliant film
My first port of call would be is it because it's a tad
Uh, like you could call it negative
Yeah, it's not cathartic. You like catharsis in your endings. No, I don't need
Um, that is true. Um
Why why wouldn't shad have really cared for what about what about what I said though
Just the idea that there's a lot in the film. It's very uh, like a downer a lot of it's a downer
Depressing. Yeah. Yeah. All right, uh, like and I don't I naturally, uh,
You know
It's fair enough myself to villain characters
Like it's hard for me to root for them when they're doing bad things and overall it was a you know
Story of a man becoming a psychopath and stuff
And so I can't enjoy something like but that's not to say it wasn't brilliantly made. Yeah
Yeah, cool. You hate it because he was white. So we just assumed a personal bias that may have resulted in your opinion
How do you feel that we've destroyed this conversation shad?
Well, I don't know like now that it's an argument you assumed the bite correctly mauler right there
Sorry, but even though you were corrected that you were attacking me
You're not saying joker was bad because if you said joker was bad
Like you thought you thought it was actually a poorly made film and then you know
We said to you. Oh, you probably just don't like it because you can't have like well made movies
You don't like well make movies
It also depends on the standard that I apply if I consider something to be good but um
If only if I enjoy it, then I would have to say the joker is not a good film because
Standards that make me enjoy a film. Yeah. Yeah, uh, so again, yeah depends on the standard
Yeah
whenever you do the
Intentions motive thing always form it in the always do the jeopardy and
state your
Motive sensing in the form of a question
It's like well like almost like you're probing them to get them to say it out loud to get them to think about it
Well, maybe it's because this and this or did you like such and such or did you play the tutorial?
Did you see the movie before this? Did you read the book? Do you really like this genre?
Stuff like that instead of being accusatory be inquisitive
I mean and also, um, uh any movie that doesn't have swords has already knocked down a few points in my
Market
Joker swords. So, um, no bullshit on twitter, man
Well, is he does something new you're doing well, it's the thing you responded to where you you showed him a picture of the guinea pig
You should just post him the petition be like can you like you are morally obligated to do this
This is how it works
It's like what is it currently? Um
Copy and paste is sold. Uh, yeah guys, uh, this petition is important. It's going in the chat. I'm sorry
Uh, I'll forgive you this desperately needs more signatures
Because knobs we want to annoy knobs like that's why you need to sign that it will annoy knobs
We're bad people here on efap. We're bad
Also, whenever he tweets anything new just reply to him with a picture of one of the guinea pigs from g4
I can't believe that that could constitute harassment of the fucking tism rules. Don't don't harass knobs with your
Sent him them like out of love. Yeah, I was gonna say don't don't get yourself banned now jay
Like encouraging people to spam him gable pictures
Don't don't okay. Don't do that
That's native
Well, well played jay nailed it
Oh man
Not officially and he's em him with guinea pig pictures
Data not wants you to do that. That would be horrible to repeatedly spam
I was like I wasn't thinking like that anyone would ever consider being sent a picture of a guinea pig harassment
I could actually believe that he would say that it was the reason why I
I warn you is because he threatened destiny with like getting rid of his sponsor
Like you got to be careful
Yeah, I guess don't do that that was just that was pretty disgusting not gonna lie that was uh
Thing is I just I don't I don't I don't I guess I don't want to encourage it, but it was funny when I saw it
Since I did it without anyone. I saw people doing it with people telling me to do it
Without people without me even suggesting that anyone do it. I saw people were just doing it through his treats
It was funny
I just find it interesting that some people will hate someone just because they are friends with someone they dislike, you know
I can't believe it happened. Like I got in trouble for being friends with jay. I never thought that would be the case
Yeah, it's never happened that way around before
It's like ultra tribalism it's the kind of thing that you want to you don't don't think of everything as an us versus them
Like
He's like there are times when you're like, oh, you know, he's in that group. So he's probably gonna that happens
That's just being observed
But it was like everything like that. It's quote. Sorry. Oh sit you've streamed with more. What is it once?
Yeah once
right, so he's this one he's streamed with you once and then uh knobs was like
uh, and then jay has said these things and then
Listened a lot of stuff. I never said
and then
fucking
Uh was like yeah. Okay. So what's your comment about that since you associate with these people i'm like fucking what?
Yeah
Well, this is the thing i'm pretty sure everybody can be associated with what also spoken to somebody
Yeah, like like how it's like what richard spencer could probably be associated with directly with like contra points or whatever
You can find a line. In fact, that's not even long sargon. That's it. They've both spoken to sargon
But isn't that the thing that it's like there's no one in the world that's separated by more than like what like
Six degrees of separation or something when you say it like that like
You know someone lives someone and they've once had a phone call with someone who most people have met a famous person
And that's almost how you can really find the end sort of thing. Oh, yeah
Well, yeah, I don't I don't want to brag guys, but I do know brandon sanded them just
Yeah
Well, I know shadow versatility so yeah, oh I know no bullshit
Anyway, let's let's hear this this
Totally fair representation of an argument that he's going to put on screen for us
Irreparably broken the conversation you've turned it into an argument. You've made it personal
There's that whole dumb thing that that's our personal freedom of speech to state your opinion
Well, i've got freedom of speech to criticize that opinion
Oh, well, then i've got freedom of speech to criticize your opinion of that person's opinion
And fuck yeah, why is he saying that this is ridiculous? That's the thing that happens a lot
All right, bring it on bring on the free speech in the same way that you have movie criticism of movie criticism of the criticism
Of the movie and then with jenny we had hordes of people criticizing our criticism of their criticism of a movie
That's great. This happens. It's fine
It's okay, like as long as you keep track of all the variables and you focus on what you're actually talking about you'll be fine
It's all important it's not like this one fundamental level where whatever you say is just beyond scrutiny
Like if you know what I mean
Yeah
Well, i've got freedom of speech to criticize that opinion
Oh, well, then i've got freedom of speech to criticize your opinion of that person's opinion
And it's this never-ending thing and that never-ending garbagey thing begins with that first criticism
Why would you want to add that? I mean, there's no people that can loot anything anymore
I don't know you want it. It's just that's just the way that the world works
You're never going to run out of arguments. They will never stop some things will simply never be settled
Just you're just going to have to accept it, man
But but also there are some arguments that can be settled through, you know discussion
There's always going to be the guy who's not at an individual level sure. Yeah, sure. Yeah, maybe between like
two individuals
Yeah, absolutely
but man, this is just gonna people are going to argue and they're gonna
Criticize especially now that we've got the internet and there's people and it's easy to go after others
You can't you're gonna let you lack context
Like do I do I have a problem with the people who are weighing in on like the criticizes of the people who criticize stuff?
Anything it's like not necessarily they see this this thing out of context
It's like the efap crew rip into women regularly for hours on end
They're just gonna be like what and they have an argument with that guy and it's like don't you realize dude?
You're arguing with someone who's arguing about a thing that was arguing about a thing that was arguing about things
Like there's no point. This is stupid now. It's like no, it's not
Why is that stupid?
Like he just described it as garbage. It's like no, it's not
we talk about
We do the journey of speech to criticize your opinion of the person's opinion and it's this never-ending thing and that never-ending
Garbagey thing begins with that first criticism of that first opinion that whole thing doesn't start if instead of a criticism or a boros
You just have to independent, right? But it always has to be given. So i'm making a claim
Again
He's coming back to that thing where you cannot criticize someone's opinion and uh again like so before you could never falsify
someone's opinion
Every opinion is valid
If you really believe this then it's like likes or whatever that's irrelevant because that's a criticism
That's a judgment of your opinion on something. So that's irrelevant
Well, I'm not sure where you're going with this man
That's the thing. Well, he seems to be saying don't criticize people's opinions because then leads to
an endless argument
And everyone is endless it might yeah indeed but not everyone and it's not necessarily pointless and I think you need to
qualify it like nearly every statement or opinion to try and find out what is true like
Yeah, the fact that he calls this like that garbagey thing is like man
You think so little of discussion? That's awful
I guess he's uh, well, this is the thing
Maybe this is me being a cruel mean man, but I think he may have a personal bias because he's experienced this particular result a lot
Well now you're just attacking him. I apologize for that. I'm sorry. All right
You've reduced this into an argument instead of a discussion even though i'm so sorry they got discussions can be arguments
Aren't necessarily bad, but anything criticism of that first opinion that whole thing doesn't start if instead of a criticism or a boros
You just have two independent opinions
Then I don't like it
Like I I understand what he's saying you've got these two options one where
Opinion a is stated opinion b is stated and we all go home
The other opinion a is stated and then opinion b is a is a counter of opinion a and so opinion a counters opinion b
And we go on forever. Why are these the two options?
Imagine imagine wanting to convince people that you're correct
like the audacity
Rags that's that's that's wrong. Your opinion is wrong. And let me actually will rape
I wouldn't even debate you right
I wouldn't even
I've noticed it happened a lot on efap where one of us will say something and then if it's very wrong like for instance
We misquote something boys state something that happened in the movie
It didn't happen because we got confused because like no no that didn't happen
And you know what the person does who was wrong?
Okay, thanks. Thanks for the connection
Like I withdraw my criticism and that's happened many times
And if they feel strong on it, then they'll be like no pretty sure it happened
They'll be like right there to youtube. We did it live with uh, the red guy, right?
He was sitting there was no have you seen?
Oh god, no
Yeah, he's a guy. I don't remember too much
Oh, well, I mean you may not remember this then but he said there was there was no face scanner face making moment in the film
Where there has been in every other mission possible and we were like, yes, there is he was like, no, there's not
We pulled up the video and showed it but he was like, well
Can you be sure that that's a face making machine? We were like, yes, we can
And then he eventually was like well making your face. He was like, it's not on the screen for very long though
Yeah, dude, it it was really strange
It was a very strange moment where we were able to pull up a clip and just right there boom
you are
Clearly here's it happening. You could watch it happening like no
That's I got hit with copyright for that as well
But well he was worth it
Perfect example that you can counter opinion and it stops right there when you counter it with just
Evidence that can't yeah, you know contradicted and that should be fine. That should be a process
That's fine. Because if he had just said oh my mistake, it would just carry it on
But instead he was like no and then you move the goal post like three times
It's never fun, but uh, you know, we got through it and yeah, um, I don't know I just don't like this
Dichotomy that Arlo is generating. Um, perhaps there is more to this though. Let's see
Yeah
That whole thing doesn't start if instead of a criticism or a boros you just have two independent opinions sitting next to each other
elaboration back and forth
That's all great. Yeah, that can't happen if you start that chain going
Just an elaboration discussion that's all great, but it can't happen if you start that chain
The elaboration discussion is the chain that he was just talking about he said he said two independent opinions
It's like but they they're not independent once you start you just said to talk about them
The problem here is totally about how he constitutes attacks what generates this dreaded argument to happen
And uh his reference was was that uh someone pointed to a personal bias and we've already defined that that's not necessarily a direct attack
We've had several examples already some by accident, but
this is
Confusing to say the least. Yes
Let's see where I'd love to ask this person. When is it okay to argue? When is it okay to debate?
Uh, but um that that's just going to express their opinion and then you will express your whoa, that sounds a good argument
Careful there
I I think is clearly defining what an argument is to be incorrect
I think he is he believes an argument is when something devolves into personal attacks and yelling at each other when right which is not
A debate is an argument an argument is a debate. They're quite anonymous
Also an argument can have personal attacks. It also doesn't have to have them
They're kind of not like the same thing at all. Anyway, so it's weird that he he did lump them together
And personal attacks can be interpreted that can be delivered with levity or with malice like there's there's so much to this
That complicates everything like you could involve them to have fun
That's true
It's a way bigger topic than I think he realizes I think it's a bigger topic than anyone really realizes like even even me
Sometimes I'll be like oh fuck now. We gotta discuss this about this about this about this. It's like a huge tree
But uh fun nonetheless
Sitting next to each other elaboration a second to figure out your metaphor there and I was just like it's like a huge tree
Yes
Yeah, and I got it. I'm just why did you force it tells that
It seemed
Important to me at the time you're a strange man james. I mean john. What was your name?
Jeffrey Jeffrey good to have you on again. Jeffrey
I hiccuped you didn't hear it, but I just hiccuped. I thought you guys should know that whoa
I'm glad that i'm glad that i'm now not the only one just announcing things independent. I think that was the
drink
And opinions sitting next to each other no elaboration back and forth continued discussion
That's all great
But that can't happen if you start that chain going and sorry if you do that
Even if you think another person's opinion is closed-minded or whatever you have made yourself the closed-minded one
Okay
Yeah, that's what closed-minded people do they really love to engage in
Here's a good example, right?
uh, so imagine somebody says
Um, I don't know insert race here are inferior and you will never change my mind on that if I said wow
That's pretty stupid
It's like oh you're the closed-minded one even though the other person literally said that they are closed-minded
It's like this is not how it works, man
Yeah, he's uh lost his kind of definitions and point like you know as to what?
Arm causes a thing and because uh, you know, it's a bit of a mess at the moment unfortunately. Oh, yes it is
Yeah, I can't say like there's a lot wrong with that
But um, i'm gonna let him get further if you do that
Even if you think another person's opinion is closed-minded or whatever you have made yourself the closed-minded one
Even if you're like 99 percent sure that other person's opinion was made for what you feel is a bad reason
It is still not your place to call yourself a mind reader
And assume
He believes um making any assumption
Um, but to figure out why someone holds an opinion is being closed-minded which is because
Yeah, that's not even the same
I think he's concluding that if ever I was to challenge let's say shad on his perspective
I've assumed how he got there and i'm telling him it's wrong
Which is a mind reading thing because I couldn't possibly know but that's not true depending on what shad says
Like I said, if shad says his ledger is not in the dark night. I don't need to know what's in his mind. He's wrong
Here's a good example, right?
What if somebody said I don't like the art style to win wake up because I think it's shit and I said
Oh, so you don't like it because you think it's shit. It's like wow closed-minded mind reader much. It's like you said it
I mean like assuming intentions is like an outgoing thing close-mindedness is like blocking incoming thoughts
like you've closed yourself off to the
to to
To learning about new ideas and potentially accepting new idea or putting your to yourself in a position to accept new ideas
At least you're closing yourself off that has nothing to do with whether you accept
Yeah, or whether you sorry, um, whether you are probing other people's intentions or assuming other people's intentions
Those have nothing to do with one another
you could be very close-minded
and extremely
Hesitant to think about other people's, you know
Yeah, I think I think he's trying to say it in the way that if you
um
Try and assume the intent behind someone's opinion to dismiss the opinion
Then that's being closed-minded because you're not trying to acknowledge the opinion
I think that's what he hasn't said it very well if that's what he was trying to explain
Like if that's what he meant he could have more eloquently said it as um
Guys like just just try your best to avoid inferring the intent of the person you're arguing against
Try and keep it focused on what they've said their points and it's like yeah, that's that's fine
That's that's uh, that's I agree with that
But I think it's going further. I think trying to say don't try and assume
The intent behind people's opinions to dismiss that opinion. I think that's what it's saying specifically
But yeah, like um
Because assuming someone's reasons for their opinion isn't a bad thing
It can be very informative to try and understand the person's viewpoint and therefore
For you to try and counteract or argue it if they're wrong
And so yeah, if yeah, if you're correct about if you are
If you are correct about their reasons for why they think something that they think
That could be very very helpful in changing their minds or getting and also
If they get it wrong, just say no, that's not the reason try again
You know, like if you say well you dislike win-waker because you don't like colors
It's like well that no that's wrong. Try again. It's like
Okay, we're fine. Like we we haven't the conversation isn't irreparably destroyed of anything
We've just crossed something off that we know that that's not the reason
The person reacts to that if they see that as the personal attack, then you're kind of I guess
but then
Um, you can you don't have to like when you think you've assumed someone's intention
You don't have to announce it
Just if you've got it you better understand you probably understand better understand that their viewpoint if you're right
So you can use that to uh, your disadvantage your disadvantage
You're i'm tired you're you can use that to your advantage while you deconstruct like their actual
Uh point because if you if you think, you know the reason they're making that point you can attack
If I thought jay really did hate black people and he was like
I just really don't like black panther and I say why and every reason he comes up with I knock out as being like
Inaccurate and then I could at some point be like
Well, I see you can't say it because then the the cat's out of the bag per se but if jay kept like
Alluding to it in each of his points like uh, maybe
Yeah, well just and then i'm just like do you um
And then I could be like do you like and then just name a bunch of I'll be like just like do you like blade?
Then you go. No, I hate blade. Oh
Why like main characters?
Yeah, yeah, you're like you're trying to fish around to finally get that piece of information
Because if you lead the witness on this one you'll lose
But but it you know, it's valid to say that that would be
Unfair like if I open the conversation of being like you just hate it because for black people it'd be like wow
Thanks a great a great thing to do as well is it's not not what aboutism don't just like oh, what about this thing?
Um ask someone to explain to you why they don't have an issue with something that you think demonstrates the same issue if if they don't
You know, that's why it's not what aboutism isn't a good like defense for something when you're making just like a response to someone
Because it's like they could have so many things to say about it. But if you ask them it's like someone's like, oh I don't like um
You know fucking
Despicable me three because of all the plot holes
and then you go
Um, okay. So why do you do not feel that same way about the last jedi? I hear you like the last jedi
Um, and see what their inconsistency is and you can you can
We've been discovering lately a lot of critics don't necessarily care for whether or not something's consistent in plot or even character
It's much more important to have a consistent message that they either agree with or find to be very important to them
Oh, yeah, and that's actually like that
That explains a lot of what they do and obviously invalid. It's just like thank goodness. We have the explanation now
But even then like the messages in some of the films that they like are so fuck
Oh, absolutely
And I'd love to talk to jenny about the message in uh, tlj and have her answers as just a selection of questions
I wouldn't but that will be attacking her. So I wouldn't want to do that. You know
You don't want to argue with the 12 hours
We'll see. No, that was just a hate stream argue. What i'm suggesting would be an attack stream. It's two different things. Oh
I added right
Hours not 12
It was 11 48 and we round up
Yeah, but but it it's 11 all that that's what i've been told. Everyone has been saying you're right about that
It's weird. The meme was that it was 11 hours. No one wanted to say 12, but it's like they could have they could have said 12
They could have
They did it. What was it j was it you that said they didn't read that far. They just read the 11 that went away. Yeah
Yeah
Yes, that seems like the kind of thing they would do
Back on topic and sorry if you do that even if you think another person's opinion is closed-minded or whatever you have made yourself the club 44
Um, i'll drag us back to 40 again
240 is where i'm hoping this pulls everyone back if you start that chain going and sorry
If you do that, even if you think another person's opinion is closed-minded or whatever you have made yourself the closed-minded one
Even if you're like 99 percent sure that other person's opinion was made for what you feel is a bad reason
It is still not your place to call yourself a mind reader and assume that you're right and to call them out for it
Especially when you're talking about literally every single person that shares that opinion if I might indulge in a little
Okay, I would kind of agree with him with the people saying, you know, you dislike
Whatever because you hate women. So clj is like playing. Yeah, if it's applying it in that context
Yeah, oh in terms of not for sure
Like yeah, I avoid swimmers anyway
Yeah, because he's saying it's not their place. I wouldn't say necessarily. It's not their place. It's just it's bloody stupid to
Try and say you hate the last jedi because you hate women. It's like whoa. All right, that's really extreme
um
So yeah, if it's saying that I think that could apply someone
No, yeah, I don't disagree with that
The way he got here was not
Like what he was referencing didn't seem to be that. Um
But I I agree it applies to sweeping you think this is the thing you need specifics to be able to make certain
Specific claims like that and if you're gonna say the sweeping you couldn't possibly have all of that information
About literally every single person that shares that opinion if I might indulge in a little preachiness here
Like I haven't been already
You're not the thought police and you most certainly cannot pretend that you're certain
That every single one of those people is wrong and their opinion is unfair and dumb
The only thing that's unfair here is using such silly generalizations
There are a lot of different reasons for a person to have any given opinion
So it's kind of ridiculous to try to invalidate that person. All right, the thing here is jumps between
Um a person and then everyone who holds the opinion
I think if you have evidence you can infer the reasons for a person to hold an opinion
But then so I think is wrong if you apply that on the uh, the mic the small scale the individual
But then I kind of agree with him if you then apply it to the macro the lines where yeah, you couldn't assume
Um, uh, you know everyone who has that opinion is because that yeah, so well, usually they're like
Meme tweets where they say everybody who hates tlj is a misogynist. You'll be like, okay
But I i'm a little bit confused because the initially it started off with two people having a discussion now it's been
extrapolated to
Making comments about any person who shares that view which is not the same as what you were talking about before and then he goes back in
He goes out to the to that
You can't apply this criticism to everybody and then he goes back in and says because this one person
Probably has a reason compared to the rest that you're labeling with one thing and it's like, right, right
You're nearly onto something there that it could have been valid
Depending on if the person actually felt that way and that there's evidence for that or they've admitted to it
there's lots of things to consider but it's just like
too wobbly
Yeah
Anybody else want to say anything or no
Are a lot of different reasons for a person to have any given opinion
So it's kind of ridiculous to try to invalidate that person by saying their opinion is wrong
Instead of just saying that you haven't no no, no, no, no, no wait you've gone wrong there because you you said it's bad
No, but he's he's changed it again because now he's saying, you know
You shouldn't be trying to invalidate it and say the opinion is wrong. It's like no, no, no
Now we're talking about like different things again
The opinion might be wrong, but that that's different from what you were just talking about before about inferring intent
To just prove it. That's not the same. Yeah, they could have an they could have a
Bias or an intent and still be right
Yeah, exactly. Exactly like
Let's talk conflate the two. That's what we're talking about here
Agreed
Also to try could someone who uses like invalidate them. They're like, what do you mean when you say that?
Well, yeah, because it's always such a weird nebulous thing like invalidate. What do you mean? And if we
Envalidating my identity is like what do you mean by that?
If we interpret it to mean I hold the opinion that x is bad and for three reasons
And you prove all three reasons wrong. My opinion is no longer standing in a place that could be considered accurate
And if that means invalid fine
Yeah, in that sense. Sure fine, but people do
You know use disingenuous means to try and invalidate arguments
In a very intellectually dishonest way for instance
You're wrong because you're a nazi even like which has like they'd obviously like that's an ad hominem
Exactly, but they're using it to try and dismiss argument oftentimes
Obviously very far from being nazi is sometimes a very complete opposite
And but by trying to vilify them
And say that they should be disregarded because they're a bad person when they're not really a bad person
That's kind of what they're attempting to do though
to
And so it is done where people in about trying to validate an opinion through very
very
disingenuous means
Yeah, try to invalidate that person by saying their opinion is wrong instead of just saying that you have an opinion that is different
If I end up in plus if if my opinion is wrong, like actually you could demonstrate my opinion was wrong
He's like you're helping me out by telling me it's wrong
yeah, and showing and
Saying an opinion is wrong. I mean, uh, if you have evidence for it go power to you, you know
The idea of being like, um, if you could prove like if I say it's my opinion that uh,
I don't know. Henry Cavill wasn't very good in the godfather. It's like
Okay, that's like just categorically false. Yeah, my so the opinion is wrong. I guess. Yeah
Like yeah, yes, then it's wrong. Yeah
Like well is that you I wouldn't it's just depends on what they use in the way to mean feeling or judgment
Which one you're going with?
Something like its own category of just like nonsensical like the question doesn't even make sense
Not like the opinion doesn't even make sense, right?
Yeah, uh with I think the issue is that it's again this thinking about it as just opinions are oh
Well, these are just things that we think about something
But not taking it to its fullest extent to test the boundaries of what you mean by an opinion
Because the thing is sometimes
I don't know. Sometimes opinions don't match with reality
Well, the thing is I feel like if I said that he just but oh, but that's just factually wrong
So it's not an opinion. It's like oh, but what do you mean by that? Like it is an opinion. I said it
It's a judgment that I made
Yeah, if you think it is your opinion is wrong
It's yeah, you need to think about the definitions and then we delve into like they might even do the pivot to like
Oh, so my feelings are now wrong. I have them. You can't say that and you're like, but what you're describing
How can you call that a feeling versus?
It's just this is what I'm this is why we always go to act as being present in films
How do you feel that henry gaville is in fucking godfather? Like how is that possible?
Like you've attached your opinion to something that doesn't really exist i'm i'm curious why you would
You're you're under some sort of misconception
Yeah, no henry kaville was merely an astral projection that only I could see most definitely
I can astral astral project his mustache away
The
Union is wrong instead of just saying that you have an opinion that is different
I'm really not trying to call and no, no, I just want to be frank some some opinions are shit
All right
If somebody out here and I know why they would have concluded that long ago. Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, the union is wrong instead of just saying that you have an opinion that is different
I'm really not trying to call anybody out here and I know lots of people just kind of say stuff
Oh, yeah, don't call anyone out. That would be an argument. All right, we can't have any of those
That'd be bad
I was gonna say his logic doesn't allow him to do a lot of um, well any kind of response for the most part
unless he but
He is taking the calling out everyone who does the thing that he perceives to be wrong, right?
It's very ironic isn't it being the very premise of what is trying to establish here
People are wrong in the way that they're arguing
Because they state other people are wrong when they disagree with them and I state this by stating you're wrong
And there's the the the implication for a lot of stuff is if you are arguing for the affirmative of one position
Then you are also saying that in a lot of cases if you hold the differing position
You are wrong
Yeah, putting too much weight he's outwardly cold
I mean, I think all of us would actually qualify in his his video so far as closed-minded from his perspective
Perspective which is fucking hilarious considering what the whole point of afap is
Not to mention that he's trying to discourage people from doing that action and then saying if they do it they're closed-minded
And this action happens to be challenging someone's opinions
Which seems to be an attribute of someone who is the opposite of closed-minded or at least
They're half there as long as they've taken information themselves, you know
Yep
I'm really not trying to call anybody out here and I know lots of people just kind of say stuff
Without putting too much weight on it, but I gotta be honest with you. Oh, I know
Maybe maybe take a bit more care sometimes
What?
I'm really tired. So I want to drop out here. All right. No problem. Mr. J
I'll uh, i'll speak to you lads some later time. Tootle tootle
Um
All right, let's yeah just the idea that like, you know, some people just say stuff and it's like yeah, um, so one
Try and be mindful of whatever you may say in whatever
Context you may say it and two don't marry yourself to certain statements just because you said them
You might be like, you know what I said that when I without really thinking
Yeah, I don't really know what i'm talking about. Yes, it's okay to do that. Consider all of your um, all of your positions is tentative
Hey guys, I just need to go to the toilet quickly i'll be back. All right. All right
What are we possibly gonna discuss guys while we wait oh
Oh, I don't know
Oh
I don't know. What's it got brought up before the impeach impeachment?
We know we can't be a we can't be a political podcast a political
political political
Oh
I don't care if you talk about it
I don't know for he was gonna say something but then he stops
Nah, this is not relevant. They're trying to kick trump like we kick j
I don't think they're gonna have as much success as we do. All right. I I don't think that they will
We've literally kicked jay and I like a million times like can they even do it to trump once we shall see. Oh my
No
So rags who will you be voting for out of the democrats?
Um
I don't know
I mean, who's my favorite of all of them?
Is it jeb bush? I don't know. I wouldn't vote. I wouldn't really yeah. Jeb bush. How about for jeb?
Jeb's just what we need to turn this country around
Jeb make jeb great again with an exclamation point
Mj, yay
Moo, goo, gee
goo, yag
goo
See jeb make jeb great again. You should have been vice vice president. Come on trump
Pronounced mia
mj
ga
Actually didn't say clap. He just said please at the end of his please
please
please
He's he's at the voting booths and he's like, please vote for me. Please
But they're like, whoa, why should I vote for you? He's just like please
Please just just just once just a just one little vote
It's pretty crazy that he
Eventually, you know just started frowning at people with bad joker takes that was like that's where he ended up for realize
Of all the places he could have gone, you know
Who would have seen it who would have seen it who could have foreseen this conclusion?
And
No, chat i'm i'm not a democrat. We got some nice jeb 2020s in chat. Good stuff. I laugh at them
Talk about politics. What did I miss? No, no. No, we were just talking about talking about politics
Oh
There you go. Yeah, i'm not trying to call anybody out here
And I know lots of people just kind of say stuff without putting too much weight on it
But I gotta be honest with you
I firmly believe it is a mark of immaturity to attack and try to invalidate a person's opinion
Instead of just saying why you disagree and admitting that different people just play and have different opinions is a very immature attitude
I mean it's an attitude that
It's like a social contract we already established when we got into just speaking it's like everybody holds different opinions. Yeah
Yeah, that's why i'm here
I want to challenge yours. You're like, no, but you accept that I have a different one
It's like well, yeah
But I think the basis in which you've constructed it is flawed that I would like to challenge it or at least question you
Can I do this in a way that doesn't offend you?
Can I just place pamphlets next to you that provide you information you may not have?
Or am I still attacking like interesting to go as far as things immature
Yeah, but did he say that you're allowed to discuss things just
Well, yeah, that's the problem. You can discuss it as long as you never actually try to persuade somebody like for real
Which is odd. Well, I know exactly what he's fucking referencing
It's like for me being like oh, I love hate lord the rings because of the the overuse of um
Fucking practical effects. I just hate practical effects and I go
Well, I love it because I actually really enjoy practical effects. It really it really grounds the film to me makes feel more real
end of conversation
So lame
Yeah, then you're just both standing there awkwardly like
Okay. All right
And you know, some people might be like, well, do you guys never accept that happening?
I'll be like, well if you reach an impasse you can
But I would be like, why don't you like practical effects? And what do you mean like there's too many?
Like how do you quantify that and do you you feel that?
No, the Socratic method is an attack on other people. Okay
Just give up immediately like oh fuck. Okay
Last shame we can't discuss anything
And besides this is almost like the same thing just using different means like what if you explain it in a written in a way
That makes them really question
Why do why they think what they think and everything you know, you're doing the same thing. You're just doing it in a
Superficially less aggressive way is really the strongest you could phrase it all you gotta do
Is say it don't be a pussy
Write it down on a pamphlet and push it over and just put it in like a little kiosk and be like
Oh, look at that pamphlet. I'm gonna go now you enjoy that pamphlet. Bye
And they're like, oh my goodness, you know what I think about this pamphlet you go
Oh my god, what do you think about that pamphlet? It's gonna have to do with me. I'm just I'm listening
That's the non-attacky way, okay guys and you need to start doing it otherwise you'll be immatuors
Immaturity to attack and try to invalidate a person's opinion instead of just saying why you disagree and admitting that different people
Just play and have different opinions is a very immature attitude
And I really hope no one thinks i'm trying to stir anything up here
But it can also kind of make a person look insecure to simply state your opinion is to be confident in your opinion
To be so I don't know man
I think it's a lot more insecure to when somebody is criticizing you of you to be like
Oh, no, you've ruined the discussion. I'm out i'm gone
Like how is that like saying this like two this is like two people coming up to each other and one says you know
What i'm the best wrestler around and the other guy says, you know
What I think i'm the best wrestler around and you're like, okay
You want to you want to you want to have a you want to wrestle you want to find out?
Who's the best wrestler in town? Yeah, I want to find out who's the best wrestler in town
It's like what part of that?
Isn't you know the confidence each one is insanely confident to the point that they're willing to go after the other and prove
Funnily enough he's engaging in what he just criticized. He's just assumed the uh, the personal like sort of
Because we can have multiple motivations to challenge an opinion, right?
If I love yes, but yeah, yeah
Well, I was gonna say he's he's not wrong in that there's a potential for if if bring your rips into something
I really love and I immediately go well
No, it's good. And i'm just personally attached and I can't even consider hearing criticism for it. I'm insecure. That's fine
That's one. Another reason could be oh, that's really interesting for me. Like, um,
Well, so this is what I think about it and then for me he's like, no, you can't criticize my opinions
Like who's the insecure one now?
um
There's so many different reasons this can happen
He's just assumed that you'd be it would be evidence of your insecurity if you were to challenge an opinion
It's like you're he's just actually assumed a lot of things. He's a toxifying my conversation. He's toxified it. Stop him arrest him
It's an argument now
Well, he's assumed close-mindedness immaturity and um insecurity. Yeah
So this is wow. I didn't we didn't catch this the first time we watched this video
Because we were pausing every frame which tells you a lot about a script when you do it
Different opinions is a very immature attitude and I really hope no one thinks i'm trying to stir anything up here
But it can also or you just call the people immature to simply state yourself
I'll just replay just play and have different opinions is a very immature attitude
And I really hope no one thinks i'm trying to stir anything up here
But it can also kind of make a person look insecure to simply state your opinion is to be confident in your opinion
To be so uncomfortable with opposing opinions that you have to come up with reasons why they're actually wrong
Not really. Why does he frame it like you're inventing? So
That's you're so uncomfortable with other ideas. You are engaging with them instead
You know gala layers they're like earth is circle. It's like wow, how insecure are you man?
Ever we just think it's flat god and you've got to come up here and prove that it's not wow. Jeez
It's so much immature much. God gala layer grow up
Oh, this is so backwards. How do you say this and not be like, oh wait?
No, that's done what I said. That doesn't make any sense at all
I said the opposite of what's true
And uh the whole uh, it takes like, you know security to be able to just declare your opinions
Like no, you can just be an idiot. You could be obnoxious a lot of people can just say stuff
It doesn't have to be indicative of their personality being one of confidence and security. You could just be like
Wow, that thing's shit. And then you go is it and then they go?
I don't know. I just
You know, fuck it. No, I I don't know. I just thought something just leave me alone
Okay, if anything in many instances when I hear something that is just so
Incorrect i'm kind of like affronted because I
Admire truth. I want truth and stuff and so my desire to generally correct people and stuff isn't out of
Insecurity or anything like that. It's uh, because I appreciate facts and stuff. I mean he is assuming that
Yeah, the whole insecure thing is you're absolutely right more
He is assuming people to be insecure who challenge other people's opinions
Whoops, it's like it's totally backwards. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah
He'd fold on this in a second if he was confident
I think yeah, I don't think anybody would actually maintain all the things that he said because there's a lot of stuff in here
That would just cancel himself out
See, I wouldn't say he's universally wrong. I do know of people who get very
Easily aggressive when they're challenged in their opinions and sometimes I feel it's a result of them being insecure in those views
But I could apply that universally to everyone who gets upset when their opinions are challenged
Yeah, I I would say that the majority of I would say that the more majority of truly insecure people would definitely stray
far away from
Really going on the affirmative and engaging in these discussions and going out and looking to disprove other people
Yeah, usually confident people go in the offensive. Oh, yeah
I mean they attack people, right? What do you mean?
All right
Let's continue
Then in your opinion to be so uncomfortable with opposing opinions that you have to come up with reasons why they're actually wrong
Not really the mark of a confident person
Say you build your house in the hills and your neighbor builds their house in the trees a confident person simply says I prefer living in
the hills
Here's a better here's a better analogy
So let's go to the good old house on sand and house on rocks
So you built your house on rocks your neighbors built on sand and you're like, dude
Are you sure that that's like i'm worried that that's going to fall down? Look how insecure you are bringing. Look how insecure you are
Oh
Just be secure in the fact your house is on rocks. Don't worry about my sand house
And I say I say this knowing the irony by the way
I was gonna say to steel man him even though i'm not really doing this because I have an issue with this argument
It'll be like, you know, you both got a hot dog you choose a different topping or sauce
Like someone goes what's wrong with that? You're like, I don't give a shit what you think. I like the taste of this stuff
It's like yeah, you can be you know
The choosing the house debate it's like but there are actually there's a lot that goes into choosing a house, dude
Yeah, the hot dog is way more subjective than the you know house foundations. Why did you choose a house?
I like the idea of you got two guys one of them's like hey, what toppings you want on hot dog?
Oh, just get some mustard. The other one's like I want some cyanide and then you're like, uh
Are you worried that you got to like die from eating that? It's like man. Jeez, how insecure are you about your mustard?
And all this foam just starts coming out it's like I don't know about you man, this is great
Let's just start choking on their own
Yeah, let's let's hear the whole analogy then. I don't know why he's gone with this one
I feel like there's so many easy ones really the mark of a confident person
Say you build your house in the hills and your neighbor builds their house in the trees
A confident person simply says I prefer living in the hills
A confident person does not then go to their neighbor's house in the trees and try to tear it down. I
No, no, no
Yeah, a confident person says the tree is the best place to build a house and here's why
Yeah, a confident person says the hills are the best place to build a house and here's why
I love that he's did
Like to to combat an opinion that you think is invalid is the same as tearing down somebody's house. What the fuck?
If you were to take that analogy and apply it to people it would be
Someone has an opposing opinion and I go and try and kill them
Yeah, it's pretty much. Yeah
Yeah, like that that that's the uh, you know equivalent to people in terms of tearing it down
Like he's like associating his opinion as like his temple or something and we're destroying it
Like don't be so attached
I like the idea of somebody building a house out of sand
And like, you know, it gets really windy and it starts blowing everywhere and you're like, mate, what's the deal?
like why are you so obsessed with sand?
Minecraft free he's just screaming that you're insecure
Screams it as the house just evaporates around him
What what in the world are you thinking with that one?
A confident person does not then go to their neighbor's house in the trees and try to tear it down
I say all this because a lot of the debate surrounding the lynx awakening
on twitter, especially
A confident person might go to the person in the tree and say
You know, there's a lot of inherent dangers for building in a tree
You might want to build on a mountain instead just just trying to help you out
And then they throw their tree fruits at you and say get the hell out of here you insecure piece of shit
You attacking me I equate that for the equivalent of you trying to tear down my tree
You physically assaulted my tree
very bad analogy, uh
Was what a strange one?
Yeah, yeah, I can't get over how adorable this game ricks. I know I know right
Which is we're getting to that now
I think which I remember me and fringy took most issue with that bit or at least a lot of it
Oh gosh, here we go
If if we're getting to that point like you said, um, is this whole preamble here?
Is it just to to solve to set the scene of oh, don't don't attack what I think because you're insecure and immature if you do
I if he had made his video entirely on the idea of it's weird
How when someone's positive and someone criticizes that positive take a lot of people like hey leave them alone
That's just a take however
If someone's negative and someone criticizes the negative take not many people step into defense
Uh, that's interesting
It almost seems hypocritical if that was his only point and then he moves into saying i've experienced this a lot because I don't
Like the way the new game looks it's not it doesn't work for me. I find it distracting. I find it weird
I guess I associate a lot with how delda used to look or does typically look
And this this is just pulling me right out and a lot of people are ripping into me for that. I'd be like this video is fine
This is totally fine. That'd be an interesting one. Actually. Yeah, that would be an interesting discussion to have because like really tell me about that
That's unusual
Yeah, but he's kind of ruined it actually by doing this
I'm gonna tear it down
I say all this because of a lot of the debate surrounding the lynx awakening remake that i've been seeing on twitter
Especially i've seen plenty of people respectfully stating their opinions that they don't like the art style
But you know what's been at the forefront the tweets
They get all the likes and the retweets and are all over my timeline
Ones that are like the people who don't like lynx awakenings art style are blah blah blah
Anyone who doesn't like how this looks was probably blah blah blah
Yeah, no, they're jerks. Yeah. Well, I mean even if they weren't uh, if we're gonna treat them entirely seriously
I wouldn't recommend. Yeah, don't take these seriously. They're they're they're bullshit
Yeah, they're obviously yeah, they can't know what every single person is unanimously thinking that's ridiculous
Of course sounds like typical twitter hyperbole. Yeah
And obviously he's created like caricatures of them, but still
I mean they do exist anyone who thinks uh, raiser mary sue is uh, you know doesn't like yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Not naming names here and I adore most of the people that made those tweets
That's that's why I follow them in the first place not trying to call them out
Just I hope he applies that same if he watched this. I hope he applies that same sort of uh,
Generosity
Super meta here and actually repurpose his initial arguments against him now as in
the very
Structure of telling someone that the way they're criticizing somebody isn't the right way to do it
Because they're like directly conflict contradicting what they feel or think is the right thing at the time
Aren't you doing this to them about that subject?
Isn't that technically what's happening and you might be like well
This is different because we're talking about the actual structure of it and I just be like, oh well, that's interesting
That works if you follow that structure then
That's saying that you're wrong
Yeah, like you shouldn't he shouldn't be doing this right because he's technical
Well, we've already accused him of doing that already because he has the uh, the insecure immature
What was the third one?
Close-minded. Yeah, like he's already gone further than he needs he's crossed that line well long ago. So
The people that made those tweets that's that's why I follow them in the first also for the record
It's his line like i'm fine with people crossing that line
Uh, what I typically say is like if you're gonna throw an insult criticism, that's a little bit more personal
Just be right as long as you're like on point
Um, it doesn't bother me as much but like when you're so overconfident that you rip into someone personally and you were wrong the whole time
It's just like oh gosh, that's embarrassing
but um, yeah, like I try not to take insults like that into account at all and um
Because a lot of time they can be jokes a lot of time they can fluff up the thing
But ultimately they're not even really important
Um, yeah one could just be frustrated it happens
Place not trying to call them out
Just saying I take slight issue with that way of putting forth an opinion or rather
invalidating a different opinion a lot of people are saying this is the wind waker situation all over again and I can agree
Slightly, but I do think there are a lot of differences when nintendo first revealed wind waker
I was one of the many people who were put off by the cartoony new art style as more trailers came out
I got over my apprehensions though, and of course went on
Sorry
Another interesting total clip of him. Was he supposed to catch that thingy and he just kept rolling around it?
Oh, right. Like yeah
Weird choice. I guess generally the gameplay that I put in my videos is like not me fucking up over and over
It's me totally superficial but it's just yeah, it's a part of the process. Nonetheless
Trailer stylistic choice. Yeah stylistic choice to have that particular clip first. Yeah came out
I got over my apprehensions though
And of course went on to love the absolute spaghetti sauce out of the game as many others did as well
Especially as it's aged people have come to really appreciate these simple yet fun colorful and uniquely beautiful visuals
And when you think about it as an evolution of the previously realistic
I mean you're playing the wrong footage though. That's uh, the 3d
3ds remake which looks better the original one kind of doesn't look very good anymore. Very blocky
Yeah
As an evolution of the previously realistic 3d zeldas, it's kind of jarring
But as an evolution of the original zeldas it makes perfect sense if wind waker were the very first 3d zelda
I think the initial reception would have been much more positive context is very important with these things. It's technically not wait
So context is appropriate for why people like feel that way but not the arguments themselves
Like the concept like not necessarily right
Like when it came out is what I think he's trying to say
You know when waker came out at this time, which is why people felt this way
I'm not a huge fan of this appeal anyway, so he's like
Uh, it came at a time where it would be less abrasive in terms of a change of style
And i'm just like so you're not really talking about the style itself. Just whether or not people would be ready for it
Which or whether or not because it was the first of its kind and it was a new thing people are more willing to accept that
Being part of its difference
And yeah, like whether or not people were ready to like it or not ready to like it
I'm just like, okay, but that's not that interesting to me. I'm just like sure yeah
It's it's it's like a lot of other like if a franchise has a spin-off
People are more willing to forgive it for being different because it's a a spin-off. It's a it's a new thing that it's trying
You know that some people dislike links awakenings art style now
But will end up coming around and absolutely loving it in that way
It is a little similar to the wind waker thing
You've got an upcoming zelda game with a pretty distinct and very colorful almost cutesy visual style
And some people don't like it
But I do feel like the two situations differ by quite a lot and the big reason is again
Context when wind waker was revealed 3d console gaming was still relatively young
most of us had spent years playing games with 2d sprites and those older games were most often cartoony because
Cartoony characters just looked better when rendered in pixels on small screens. It was a better choice for the
I mean i'm not sure that that's even really true. Well, I don't like where this is going though kitty again
He's like we were more ready for cartoons. I was like, what are you doing, man?
And also it's the fact of how good can you make
Zelda look when you only have an objectively smaller amount of pixels
Um, but why do you say for realism?
then
most most video games back then were cartoony, I mean
I guess like maybe but I don't know if i'd say
Um, yeah, you know mortal combat was like made from pixelated actual photographs
Streets of rage there's a whole bunch of games that tried to sort of push for a little bit more realistic
I mean, it's not and also the whole thing of like oh most of us played 2d games at the time
It's like, I don't know. I would have I was uh
You know, I was like seven or eight when uh wind waker came out. So
I mostly was playing 3d games by then
So that was so what does that mean? Does that mean like oh, I was more ready for it
That's
I don't know like that's such a weird thing
That's a weird. I know the art style of wind waker totally turned me off. I got into like zelda ocarina of time and stuff
Um, yeah, the cartoon character. I was like
That looks crap and I didn't even you know have an interest in it
That was just my reaction. And yeah, that was an example of art affecting my uh judgment of it
Just to clear it up with um
Theo is objectively smaller number of pixels objectively inferior if the goal is to create a realistic image
I would say yes, it is
Yeah, I mean less detail means less detail
Yeah, not necessarily though
Because you could have like a shit ton more pixels and less detail depending on what developer does with them
You know the developer doesn't like you could have yeah, so I mean there could be variables, but you could analyze each individual against
Games
Um, yeah, all right
Tech that was available when 3d gaming became a thing and games like zelda were able to be more realistic
We saw that as a natural progression of the media
But that but there are a lot of games that weren't realistic at the time crash bandicoot super mario 64 banjo. Yeah
Yeah, you're right
And you could you could I was going to say couldn't someone make the argument like oh, I didn't like the first realistic one
Because zelda's always been cartoony
Yeah, well, of course you could yeah, I think that he would agree that someone could what i'm saying is like
This is almost nonsense data. Like I don't care. Why do we anyone kit?
Someone anyone can make any reason they want for not liking whether or not it's a cartoon at whatever time. That's like, yeah
Yeah, i'm looking for something more
Players were finally able to depict their characters in the ways they envisioned rather than with simplistic little pixely blobs
Mario ate mushrooms and jumped on turtles
So it made sense that his first 3d game was cartoony and that he remained cartoony after that
But when ocarina of time came out, it was like yeah, this makes sense. This is right for zelda
The saga is not really strong by that. This is it was more rights
More right. I mean it's a kid's game still
I mean a kid's game. It's more like in every one game
But you know that expect kids to play zelda's you could easily have gone down the toon route with with zelda's
incarnations
A lot of their games are sort of cartoony and so shaded like in fact
I think the majority of zelda games are cartoony and so shaded
I'll take eventually i'm handheld
I mean, uh, yes
I'd call ocarina of time cartoony still because yeah, it's still it's still not realistic. It's still got exaggerated proportions
It's more like a warcrafty. I mean, so it doesn't look like warcraft, but it's more like a warcraft sort of um
Interpretation right where it's like things are sort of more stylized and you know
A little bit unrealistic and there's nothing wrong with that like it's fine
And if we're talking about his criteria here
Then is super mario galaxies mario
more cartoony than
Uh super mario world on the game boy cartoony
Like how do you how how are you more? How is one of those more cartoony than the other?
Was what standard are you using this is a very loose criteria right more or less cartoony
Yeah, super loose. I don't think you could ever fully properly define what you mean by this
So what are you actually trying to say here? Is he trying to say that i'm criticizing the different art styles is
uh, no point and it's invalid because what what he's uh
What he's trying to do is he's trying to draw the stick because the the issue is if this game is like win waker
Then he's wrong because win waker kind of proves people wrong that the art style was really good. He needs to separate them out
Yeah, so what he's doing is um, he's trying to say well, you got to consider the context, right?
When waker came out people weren't used to cartoony 3d games because we had ocarina which made more sense
And so when win waker came out people were apprehensive and then he's going to make a different argument
Yeah, like he's going to say people were wrong about wind waker for this reason
They're right about this new game for this reason. That's pretty part of it
One of the arguments I know that he makes is there are a lot of cartoony games now like overwatch and um, and you know
stuff like that so it's not that innovative and it's like
Okay, like that's that's irrelevant. Like that's not
In I think a lot of this is content related because he framed the mario games as he eats mushrooms on goombas
so that's like sillier than what the legend of zelda has so
mario's far more justified in continuing to be more and more cartoony because of its which is a very
Now reminded view of cartoons, man
absolutely
The concert is just silly and kid friendly. Let's let's talk about what happens in rick and morty in terms of like thematic lessons or um
Or the nudity and then without mentioning anything about this art style
What kind of tv show it is and I go guess and then he says well, it's uh, probably a realistic tv show
Maybe i'm like no it's a cartoon rip
Yeah
Um, yeah, i'll throw it back
After that, but when ocarina of time came out it was like yeah, this makes sense. This is right for zelda
It's a more mature series. You're killing monsters with a sword. You're solving puzzles. There's a little more to it
Then majora's mind you're as opposed to mario where you're killing turtles by bludgeoning them to death with your boot
Prussian curb stomping them beneath your feet
Also, he said there's a little more to it. I feel like there's a wall that's about to erupt between mario and zelda fans
Well, I mean that's a funny statement a little more to it. What do you mean by that?
Yeah, this definitely was like wait explain that
And is that how games work the more it has to it the more realistic it should be like okay
Yeah, that's another weird assumption too. Yep
So there's a little more to it then majora's mask with its even darker tones seemed to solidify the idea that as graphical capabilities improved
Zelda would naturally become more realistic and by extension awesome looking
That was why the wind waker reveal was so jarring at the time
It was hard to see it as a group of artists simply
Making art the way they wanted to make it all the zelda guys had all sorts of reasons for going with that style
But to a lot of us it felt like a step backward
We didn't understand why they would want to make zelda look like a cartoon. We couldn't see how uh, so
Can you not apply this argument to link's awakening? They have a lot of reasons, but you just can't understand it. You can't
Anything I was gonna say this applies widely like this can go into a lot of different places
And again, like all he's doing is answering why these people may have felt this way and i'm just like, all right
fine
Fine doesn't really get on with it. I get it fine
It's possible that people felt this way because of these things. Okay, they didn't really think it through that much
Uh is what I would probably criticize them for
Yeah, I mean I was I was a young kid
So as most I I have no idea what I just felt away and that was that and I never looked any further into it
I was like, oh wind waker. This looks
Oh a thing like I don't like I don't there's no way i'd be able to elaborate why
At that I wouldn't have been able to when I was that young
Yeah, I would just like instant and first impressions
He's like, oh, I like how this cartoon is and the thing is I uh, I probably would have liked it when I was a kid
I didn't play it when I was a kid, but I probably would have liked it. I was about the right age
well being the old man here, uh,
because I was old enough when wind waker was really so like I said, I didn't like the cartoon style and uh, it comes down to
what you are
What is perceived to be established as the kind of
status quo of the series almost like what is uh, what
Goes down to what do you define a series to be and probably the best analogy I could reference here
Is the whole spider-man debates with how you know, what is a good spider-man movie?
What are we what are the core characteristics that help define it to be that right?
And so in my time the core characteristics of what I was kind of perceiving to be zelda was you know
Are more kind of realistically depicted, you know a game in the sense of what the graphics are capable of
And so when I go to the wind waker thing, I was just like what that looks crap
kind of thing and at what point do you deviate so far away from something else that
I mean it it's like it's a it's a matter of keeping up tradition is kind of a way of describing one game
Going to the sequel going to sequel to the next thing certainly with um
You get with like final fantasy games with zelda games. There are similarities between a lot of them
and if you go too far away from that to the point where
You're just like what um
Like for those of us who played final fantasy one and two and four and five and seven and all those games
What did final fantasy the spirits within?
like
How did you like how do you how do you connect all these, you know final fantasy? How is this a like what?
You know, and that'll throw people for a loop
but the thing is uh in the case of
Um wind waker it's still structurally very similar to the other games
Yeah, like from a gameplay perspective. It's kind of you can tell that it's a zelda game
So it's just the graphics enemies bombs
It's just the graphics
And and then you compare it to like breath of the world
Which has a lot more difference between that and a lot of the other zelda games
In terms of structure and all that and yet it's still a zelda game
Well, yeah, this is very loose
Well, that's what I mean
It seems like the definition of what is a zelda game is a far more kind of loose
Adaptive thing than what many people perceive as what is required to make a good spider-man movie
Yeah, I would I would agree with that. I think um, I think that uh, zelda is quite diverse as a series
Um, it's actually very diverse and maybe this is retroactively looking at it
But I mean there have been so many different types of zelda games at this point
But like I don't mind that this is true that someone makes the assumption that hey
This isn't what zelda is. That's what this is and then they don't like it for that reason. That's fine
Um, it's just he's spending so long on this and that a lot of his reasoning is a little shaky
in terms of like yeah, I don't I
You know like you're not gonna be the one to say like if they're a ball
Uh, if you do more if they're a ball mechanics, it should be more realistic graphics. You'll be like, I don't think so
Um, and also I even with spider-man i've said you can try and adapt
Original content and stuff like that and if it results in a better version, i'd be all on board with it
I'll be sweating right exactly
If you want to try and change the graphics of a game to be a very different style to even what I perceived as being
Very different and I didn't like it originally if it resulted in a better product. I would be oh, that's sweet
I'm all on board with it. Um, and so it's all about the end quality that helps determine it my mind at least
Yeah, that's funny to think though the more mechanically
Extensive it is the more realistic it has to be he's like laughs in civilization for
Yeah
How such a style could fit the series even though we soon learned it most certainly could but the link's awakening remake is coming at a
Very different time in game history
We are absolutely used to colorful cartoony visuals in our zelda games. And in fact our games in general
It's no longer a new concept. Well, I guess sure. Yeah
I'm i'm gonna just let that go. So i'm really curious what his count is gonna be like where he's going with this
Sure in our zelda games and in fact our games in general
It's no longer a new concept that scares us every single quote unquote 2d
Zelda has been colorful and cartoony and everyone seems to be fine with that
No one was looking for gritty realistic graphics in link between worlds
Despite the fact that we all knew the 3ds was capable of such a thing
Ocarina of time and majeure's mask were on the system yet when I knew too sorry
It had to buffer for me for a second. Where are you guys?
806 yeah, yeah
I'm at 804. So we got about a two second gap now. So get back a bit everyone at 754
Yeah to be fine with that no one was looking for gritty realistic graphics in link between worlds
Despite the fact that we all knew the 3ds was capable of such a thing
Ocarina of time and majeure's mask were on the system yet when a new 2d zelda came along
Nobody seemed to mind that it looked the way it did and look at the rest of the gaming landscape too
The whole graphics race back in gens five and six were the best games were the ones that looked the most realistic
That's not as much of a thing anymore
Especially if you're into indie games, you're probably playing
And I would disagree with his assertion that the best games are the ones with the best graphics is like
I think he was saying that that was the climate. Yeah, that was almost a claim
An attitude and I mean that race is still going
Yeah, definitely still going. I mean look at look at how much people talk about what it was graphics
It will determine a game's quality if it has like graphics isn't irrelevant. Oh, yeah
Yeah, it's not the whole thing. That's what my point is
Yeah, some people would claim that and then there was a lot of talk about that that like a lot of people would be like
What's better the ps3 or the xbox 360 and one of the august would be there's better graphics on the ps3 to be like
I don't know that
Maybe we should think about a lot of things not just that
Um, but the graphics has always been um this thing that like will be used in marketing like to this day
Oh, look at look at the marketing for the ps4 before the xbox 1x came out the most powerful console
And now the xbox 1x is it'll change everything fringy you'll see
Yeah, it's I haven't seen the ad for minecraft in 4k and I was like minecraft in 4k. I mean
Okay, that's hot. I was like, huh
Because my point is yeah
Even back then if a game came out with the best graphics ever if the gameplay was still crap
I wouldn't yeah a good game. It would still be a crap game. Yeah
I don't think nintendo has been getting away with it forever
With the most graphically intensive consoles
Yeah, yeah, the nintendo navigator to be the most graphically
Uh advanced of everything. They're just like no, we just we're having fun
Or just making good games a large list of good games
That stand apart from the rest staggering list. What do you consider all the ip's on the nintendo? Oh, yeah. Oh, it's a massive
Massive is it I see
Games with a lot of different styles many of which are cartoony and fun heck
Some of the most popular shooters in the world right now are basically cartoons gritty realism is less important now than it's been in ages
We are more open to different artistic styles than we have been in ages. I mean, this is more of a nitpick
But I don't know. I was always open to it
But maybe maybe maybe he's right. Maybe everybody is more open now than they were before but i'm just like, okay
Yes, so to say that people dislike link's awakenings look because it's colorful or whatever is simply wrong people aren't going what?
A simple colorful 2d zelda game unheard of no, like I said, there are specific and in my opinion
What do you know? Come on. The reasons are that other games have cartoony graphics. That's a fucking stupid reason
And also the games flat out said someone else was wrong
Yeah, he did rip the first couple. I was actually yeah
We're gonna replay that rip his preamble and uh, he threw it and in my opinion
Is it the first time in this video he's done that or is that?
Uh, I think he might have yeah first time it was funny. I I mentioned my
Issues with the in my opinion thing on uh, did rotics
channel last night or the night before and um
Like a half hour later. He was describing something that he said in my opinion
Well, yeah in my and I was like, it's fine. Did you say it? It's okay
Like what's your issues?
Uh, just the the most of the time people are using it as a please leave me alone preamble
And um, I just it's mostly unnecessary. Just leave it out. You don't need it
Um, most of the time the language should even this is funny
It's like me and joe's fans don't line up on this but for different reasons
He's like everything you say is subjective and i'm like, no your words will define whether or not what you said was objective or subject
You don't need in my opinion
And in my opinion doesn't even work if I say in my opinion ryan reynolds does not star in deadpool
You're like, I don't care that you put in my opinion on there. You're just wrong
So you're like I feel like the it's it's almost a word that we should just get rid of because no one's using it
Fucking right anymore and to use it right would it wouldn't be needed? Um
And I also advocate for just uh, say what you mean instead
with that word, so whatever you're using opinion as a
Cover for and in my opinion it typically would be used as a judgment
Uh rather than feelings. I don't typically but you know, it could be and so that's for me and it's just like whoever else is using it
just uh
I guess you could i'm trying to think of like a sentence to explain this best but like, you know, I felt uh scared by paranormal activity
You wouldn't you don't need to convert that statement into in my opinion. Paranormal activity is scary
Just be like I found it scary if you
Yeah, but if you said I have judged this movie to be scary
That carries this weight with it that kind of implies that you have you found it a certain way because you've judged it you have
Looked at it. You have found things that have led you to conclusions that you could call upon
Judgment seems like the objective version of the word. Oh, yeah
And then the other conclusion is that when you say that someone's judgment is faulty, um, or it's a strong judgment
uh, people are much more I think ready to hear that than your your opinion is faulty because they're like
Ah, how could you how could you say that that's wrong?
You can't have opinion is defined as something that can't be falsified. You're like, oh it is
Oh, wait, if it can't be falsified then it's almost
worthless
Yeah, can we replay the whole thing that you just said that we can just so
Killer shooters in the world right now are basically cartoons
Gritty realism is less important now than it's been in ages
We are more open to different artistic styles than we have been in ages
So to say that people dislike link's awakenings look because it's colorful or whatever is simply wrong people aren't so yeah
That's not cool, dude
There's gonna be one guy out there who's like, no, that is what I think
But he just did attack them like from the beginning of this video saying saying someone's opinion is wrong
Is an attack
And then you should discuss it and you shouldn't just say
You know that is wrong. He's just broken his own rules. Anyway, when you did that so
No, yes, um, and you could be like, oh come he could be here right now
He's like, oh, come on. No one actually does think that i'd be like, are you sure?
There probably is at least one person who's like i'm sick of cartoons
Yeah, I think it's it's downright reasonable. I could be like it's way too colorful and vibrant. Absolutely
I feel like throwing up looking at it and you're like, okay
All right
Sure. Yeah, that's the thing that would just be like, yeah, I I can understand how that can happen
So I don't think you're lying to me. So yeah
Going what a simple colorful 2d zelda game unheard of
No, like I said, there are specific and in my opinion reasonable reasons to dislike it that extend far beyond the simple
No, no, no because your arguments so far have been there are there are lots of games that are cartoony
So that seems to be relevant for his hand in the cookie jar
He just said reasonable reasons meaning there's such a thing as unreasonable reasons
Oh
Oh got him
But mala, how can we know that reason is a reason?
Well, um, i'd like to discuss that with you. He's like you'd like to attack me
No, I can't stand this attack
To dislike it that extend far beyond the simple
It's something different and people don't like things that are different which has been somewhat true at some points in history
Sometimes drastic change can scare people, but it's also just a lazy argument
And it completely dismisses all legitimate criticism as people just being neophobic
To always play the people just hate new things card is to suggest that new things are literally immune to criticism
And no one's allowed to dislike them, which is just ridiculous
What's different no no that's there's a difference between
Yeah, there's a difference between people not liking things because they're new in the criticism of each individual new thing
Yeah, you just missed you like took the point and read extrapolated into a different thing
Like if someone has an actual thing with like I hate change
And then i'm like you don't like this because you hate change and then they go. Oh, so everything that's new can't be criticized
I'd be like, where did you get that from?
How much did we get that with tlj you just don't like it's new it's something new you just don't like it because it's new
Like no, we don't like it because it's shit. Well now that doesn't work because we like mandalorian to get fucked
I was gonna say like yeah, okay. We don't like that add force awakens and solo and the probably rise of skywalker. I'd be like fuck
We probably like mandalorian because as a mailman character more
Did you did you hear my last chat?
Anita said that she she was shocked to see there's no men in episode one
I mean women's females with voice lines, even though the yamara was
Since she's in charge of the mandalorian camp
So a woman in power it would it would appear
And uh, you don't hear neophobic use too much
Not a not a word you hear often
So, you know
Big word
Play the people just hate new things card is to suggest that new things are literally immune to criticism
And no one's allowed to dislike them, which is just ridiculous and moving forward just so you're not left guessing
It looks so good
I'm not saying that I hate the style though. I will say i'm skeptical that it was the best choice for the reasons
I'm about to go over. I think the game looks really nice in its own way and I will very much enjoy it
But I just feel like I might have enjoyed the style a little more if they'd gone with something different
So i'm kind of on the fence and I very much oh, that's such a like non-committal
Thing to say who's gonna disagree with that? Yeah, like i'm
I'm skeptical that this was the best way that yeah, sure. It's possible. There's a better one the way
I'm not sure if i'll yeah, i'm not sure if there would be something better unless you say no
This is the best way and who's gonna say that?
Yes, that's like how could you possibly know what does he mean the best way? What does that mean?
Well, he's weighing it as he's judging to judge this as the best compared to every possible alternative that could ever be made
No reasonable person is going to say that
No
Which is why yeah so far we're not gonna be able to challenge him on that stuff. This is like, yeah, okay
Okay, you haven't said really anything yet, but okay
So i'm kind of on the fence and I very much understand where the criticism is coming from let's get right to it though
I think you can probably boil all this disagreement down to one aspect of the game's style
It's not that it looks colorful or cartoony
But that it looks like it's made out of toys a lot of the objects have this plasticky sheen and there's a depth of field
Effect that elicits the feel of macro photography octopath traveler is another recent game
That used this effect heavily to make the world look like a little paper diagram or something
Now the depth of field thing i'm all right with a lot of people seem to be pretty annoyed by it
But I think it's a nice little effect. My problem is with the whole plastic thing. No, I I
This thing again, this is a very subjective opinion. Yes
This is the peak of subjectivity. It's just like all right. Oh, yeah
I like the glossy waxy kind of look to everything. I think it's nifty. I think it the
It makes everything seem
Vibrant and shiny like there it's very well lit
Uh, it makes it look like uh, it gives it a sort of meta feel, you know, if it was like it's uh, a kid's play set
Yeah, it's like a big board game
It actually makes it look like it's real in the sense that it's made from plastic and not a computer, you know cgi image
um
But I mean it is perfectly allowed to dislike that effect
Yeah, exactly going to try and start like put forward that his view is
More correct than others. He's gonna he's gonna give his reasons for it is what's probably gonna happen. I think I think he gives his reasons
All right
Other nintendo games have employed this effect and i've never been a huge fan of it
It looks attractive in a certain raw horsepower store
uh
What it it looks attractive in a raw horse. So is he is he talking about?
um
like we're talking like
pixel polygon graphical fidelity
Effects on screen kind of way are like like where you could say. Yeah, there there's more raw horsepower graphically in the order
1886
Than there is in you know, uh, you know stardew valley. He's like sure. Yeah, I I get what you're saying. Yeah, okay
Does that make it better?
Hmm
I didn't say metatextual. I thought you did
I'm going to choose to say this is from an anonymous author
Uh, but they they just mentioned it the the discord. I just find this funny. So said about the uh, the podcast obviously
um
Why am I not surprised efap is a disgusting cesspool their panel or intellectual cowards without consistent principles on freedom of speech
I tire of their pretension. They've become a meme
Have we had inconsistent principles on freedom of speech possibly i'm not aware of them though
Because we're pretty we're we're pretty as far as I know we're pretty much all in the uh freedom of speech is uh double plus good
Triple plus you might even say no
Except with pineapple on pizza, that's where I draw. Oh, yeah, we gotta draw the line somewhere. We're not barbarians
How else can you have a civilization you gotta you gotta start making rules?
But if they are taking sarcasm like that literally
Wow, then i'm not gonna worry too much about them. I mean I
The only thing you could say about that is I mean each individual person might have you know
How far is their extreme, you know, we're how far how far do they go?
But I think for the purposes of where it will pop up in conversation for the vast majority of times. Yeah, we're all pretty
consistent on it
That's just what a liar would say
No, yeah, that's a troll. You would hope so you would hope so. I mean maybe yes, let's hope i've got a hope sure thing
Other nintendo games have employed this effect and i've never been a huge fan of it
It looks attractive in a certain raw horsepower sort of way
But it doesn't actually make a lot of sense for skin or cloth or whatever to look like plastic
Unless it's actually supposed to be link's awakening looks much more like it's okay
What does it make sense to look like this?
Unless it's supposed to well, I think it's supposed to look like this. So
Yeah, it's interesting where he gets that base opinion that it doesn't make sense for it to look that way when
There's it's not too hard to think of many reasons why it would make sense for them to make it look that way
Maybe they want to sell toys and they want it to look as close to the toys as possible
That's one
I already mentioned that it makes it looks more realistic like it's actually made out of plastic
He was the one who said that and that makes it pop a bit more as a result
I think that's another reason
It could just be a matter of this is the artistic vision that they had in their head
This is what they created and they liked it and they
Tried you like let's make link. Let's make this and they made all these assets and they really like this aesthetic
And so they kind of did everything else to kind of match together in the same style and
They got the finished product and they're like wow, this is really pretty much what I was going for
I really think this looks great
I certainly he's like how skin and cloth wouldn't look like this and i'm like, but they would if they were plastic
right
And this is what this game is justified
Yeah, and it's completely justified in not liking the look but now he's gone a step further this day
Yes
He crossed a line into a different conversation now
So now we get to actually respond instead of it like no. Yes
Link's hair doesn't really look like hair. It's like it didn't when it was three pixels on a gameboy either
Yeah, we could this is what I mean. This is not going to lead into a good place
Weird doesn't actually make a lot of sense for skin or cloth or whatever to look like plastic unless it's I don't know
I mean i'm looking at these uh these princess peaches here as like that doesn't
I don't know. It's uh, not like the real thing not gonna lie. So
Actually supposed to be link's awakening looks much more like it's going for the whole plastic toy effect than most other games
Especially when combined with the depth of field thing and i've got a number of problems with this
One problem is that the whole made of real material thing is approaching really overdone territory as far as I can see it started
So the argument is that it's being done too much
It's been done in our four games. I think I don't know that that's
That argument. Yeah, I don't like it either. I don't know either the quantity of something doesn't determine if it's good or bad
I mean like it might make him tired of seeing it
But that's an individual thing. You can't then impose that perspective on everyone else that
It would explain there's perhaps why someone is liking it less. It's like oh, this is all over the place
We'll be like, okay, but that's not a flaw
Because the things that I can think of are like string kirby paper mario
That's um, yeah, there's a couple because there's a little bit
We can we can do this pretty easily a lot of people say now it's like i'm so tired of marvel films
There's just so many marvel films. They're often gonna actually conceives like they're not even that bad
I just there's just so man i'm just so tired of marvel films
Which is fine?
Um, and if that is the argument, that's fine
But you can't go further than just being like advocating for a personal preference there because some guy might be like I want a hundred
More marvel films not enough eat more
And the box office certainly doesn't seem to know they could keep going
There's a good comment in chat. I like you're being a try hard is not a good argument. Yeah, I can
Mm
Material thing is approaching really overdone territory as far as I can see it started with kirby's epic yarn
But then within just the last few years kirby also went full-on clay paper mario perfected the realistic papercraft aesthetic
Yoshi had a whole game made of yarn. This seems awesome though. We've got all these different
Yeah
Rather have him showing
Yarn cotton, uh plastic clay all these ones i'm just like, oh man, this is so cool. We have all of these
And now he's basically getting the color splash treatment mixed with a whole bunch of crafts made from real world stuff
In my opinion, the novelty is wearing thin plus. I think those styles fit the light
It's not for me. So imagine
I'm tired of realistic graphics. I want more cartoon stuff
I played this game the other day just had like real ass people depicted and in my opinion that's enough for me
Just be like, okay
Yeah, that is your opinion. Yeah, like i'm not going to challenge that. I just yeah. All right, that's how you feel
I'm just gonna discard it and move along. Yeah, that doesn't mean they shouldn't have done it or that
It's in theory a game as a result of that
is
Subjectivity even mario better than they do zelda zelda isn't generally super serious or anything
But I think there's a depth of adventure and creativity there that just doesn't really fit with the whole everything's made of real stuff
That's pretty creative though. You said that in the sense of creativity
And that's very creative. That's nonsense. It's almost nonsense
This is like the opinion of most opinionists of the opinions. Well, what are you doing?
nonsense like
Roll that bag like he's he's saying that like
To have realistic exploring doesn't lend itself to like the plastic feel like what do you mean? I need to hear this again
Better than they do zelda story zelda isn't generally super serious or anything
But I think there's a depth of adventure and creativity there that just doesn't really fit with the whole everything's made of real stuff theme
Why?
That's just a statement without any
I guess
Evidence to back it up. Could depth and exploration be lost when you're going into realism
Have you ever explored a forest in real life like you can do it? Isn't uh plastic forest
I mean why you could say the exact same thing about everything is like I don't know if the uh
I don't know if the adventurous nature of each mario game lends itself to a like like a pixel style
You know construction or or whatever you want to call it
like this
Like why why does it not and how do you justify things like yeah?
But what about toy story too where toys are literally made out of plastic going on an adventure like I don't
This is really really weird
This is I think you can have an adventure with depth and basically any format like uh of depiction of media
Like you'll be fine. You can do it in text adventures. You know what I mean?
Well, yeah, the implication seems to be that it has less depth because it's less realistic, which is
Bizarre
Maybe he's gonna qualify it
I wonder if he actually doesn't mean what they're saying. He's just expressing himself really poorly like could be
the the thing saying
It is the adventure doesn't lend itself like what is what does that mean?
The adventure doesn't like it's very
strange thing to say so
Maybe it didn't even
There that just doesn't really fit with the whole
Everything's made of real stuff theme
In my eyes zelda games really do take place in some other universe
And I don't want them even touching the real world beyond small innocuous references
So the idea that you could be in a different world made of plastic
That's just not a thing for you is is he saying that this is more realistic?
Apparently, yeah
I mean, I suppose in a way because of like dimensions and stuff
Like shadows things like that. Yeah, sure those exist in the real world
But that's probably about as far as i'd take it if we're gonna define that
This is kind of like a board game kind of like plastic toys
He's like I guess he's saying like yeah, it's almost like this is a thing from our world
And i'm like but
It's a it's a fully functioning world in its own. It's not like there's strings everywhere and stuff
But that's what all games are so it really depends on your level of immersion
But why can't you just imagine that this is an alternate universe? Everything's made of plastic. That's not the real world
Yeah
And there's a comment in chat that I like uh jay said
Just jay not jay
Do we have any knowledge that the original game wouldn't have had these kinds of graphics if they could but were limited by the game boy
You know from 1993
Yep
That's a good thought
It's a reasonable thing to ask
And the answer would be no, of course not
Yeah, thanks kirby yoshi and mario have always had this kind of winking self-referential thing going on and that's great
That's great for them. What's just wait. What does that mean? What are you? What are you referring? Yeah, I don't know
Yoshi's always had winking self-referential stuff. What what do you mean by that?
Well, not only what does he mean by that? But what is that supporting right now?
Um, yeah, what does that so things that are self-referential make more sense to be
Clay unrealistic or really? I'm not sure. Let's roll that back. Yes
Yeah, there are two things that don't equate in that the winking
Well, I explain how that is even like what what are they doing?
It has a wink winking soft referential humor, which they might I just didn't see any
Evidence to say so and then how does that?
um
equate to
Spitting something that's more. I don't know what plastic or real or how the things is defining
Is just making a complete logic. I like this comment by louis calibre. I'm saying that right. Um
Zelda's graphics and art etc. Have uh is always changing in its first four games. It had three different styles
That's consistent to change. There's no definitive zelda style graphics or gameplay
Not this is just what I mean, I agree
Yeah, it's just what people attach themselves to in some way perhaps what they think is
The zelda style he's arguing that this is the first style he felt that almost takes place in our will versus
Thing but wasn't he arguing for realistic this whole time? He was that's what
How that was a thing and then
Breath of the wild and what's the other one skyward sword or whatever? Yeah
like how why would you
Like could there be a reason why someone would attach himself or or think that one of those is particularly more
realistic than the rest for whatever reason
Is he like uh aiming for like the word fantasy meaning like he knew that despite being because lord dorene's you could argue is
Like got realism in it, but it's complete fantasy, right? And that's what maybe he thinks of the zelda
Games and and the the plastic one is like nah, this is this is realistic, but not fantasy
This is like a kid's board game. It's no longer a fantasy world. Is that maybe where he's going with this?
No, wolf is saying that that looks too much like real plastic and not real people
And he wants it to look realistic like real people but not realistic real plastic. Does that make sense? Maybe maybe he's confusing things like
textures
with effects so shadows and
Post-processing and ambient occlusion things like that and the effects that those can have on the textures and the actual
things that are in the game being acted upon maybe there's a
Maybe he's kind of meshing those two together
in a way that he that's almost plastic part less so that it seems to be very he's almost exclusively focusing on the idea of
plastic that's what i'm trying to figure out if it's the um
The plastic of our world
And he's like I can't I can't decouple this from that and therefore it's not like a fantasy world
It's our world our plastic. It's just a strange
because
Because you could easily
change by
Keeping the shapes the way that they are but or but just changing the texture and the lighting effects on them
It becomes nonplasticy. It has this plastic look because it's glossy and waxy and the way it reflects light and stuff like that
so
Is that is it specifically?
Not anything to do with shapes or the stylization of objects?
Or any of the you know effects in terms of lighting or whatnot, but just the texture-based issue
Also someone interested contextually this is all in a dream links having apparently it is he uh
He like is on a boat and then there's a lightning strike and then he's yeah
It's called links awakening because he's asleep. It's a dream
That kind of would fuck with his argument too then wouldn't it?
Yeah, of course it does because now it's like it's meant to be surreal and you know
If you lived in uh, if you lived in a fantasy world where there was no plastic would be pretty surreal to live in
A plastic world like not to say his argument was strong anyway, but if we're gonna be saying
Um, it's too close to like real life. It's like but if it's in the dream of a character, couldn't it just be anything?
Yeah
so
Real stuff theme in my eyes zelda games really do take place in some other universe
Um, i'm at 11 17
No, you're behind
All right
This doesn't really fit with the whole 11 13
Yes
Everything's made of real stuff theme in my eyes
Zelda games really do take place in some other universe and I don't want them even touching the real world beyond the small
Inocuous references and gags kirby yoshi and mario have always had this kind of
Winking self-referential thing going on and that's great. That's great for them. I just don't think that fits zelda
Similarly, i'm not sure if the style fits the tone of this specific game lake's awakening is a light-hearted game
But i've always felt like it has something of a surreal and uh, well dream like quality
Interesting
Hmm
Yeah, so he wants the graphics to look a bit surreal and dreamlike. Is that what he's saying?
I mean, what does that mean?
It's a little confusing to kind of peg down exactly what he's saying
Is he trying to communicate the idea that the image on the left?
Is more of that in the image on the right? That's that's I think that's where my brain got stuck
I was like, wait, which one's more surreal?
Because he seems to think it's obvious and i'm like, oh, uh
I don't know man, like the original game just looks like a uh, what a zelda game would have looked like
You know if you have a link to the past but on the you know game boy. I don't know
yeah, because I played the um the game boy version
and I played the nintendo ds redo of it and
I was like it was nifty to have them both ways, you know, but
I don't I
this is uh
It's hard to get what he's trying to say. I'm rolling back. See if we can
See if we can find something so
He's trying to tell us what he wants, but i'm still trying to figure out what he wants
Ocean mario have always had this kind of winking self-referential thing going on and that's great. That's great for them
I just don't think that fits zelda similarly i'm not sure if the style fits the tone of this specific game
Link's awakening is a light-hearted game, but i've always felt like it has something of a surreal and uh
Dreamlike quality I can see how the toy angle is their way of tackling the dreamlike tone
It sort of sets it apart from other zeldas
It makes it feel a little more imaginary a little more like a story
It makes sense on paper and I can see the reasoning but I just feel like it's too simple and disarming it feels
Simple and disarming. Um, that's again, just his subjective opinion. I feel like it's as like is any less simple than the one on the left
Uh, I mean it's more detailed than the one on the left for sure far more detailed
There's more effect. There are literally effects on the right that do not exist on the left
Yeah, like it's more detailed. There's like a third dimension, which means we have to know what it means by simple
We don't know how he's defining that
Um
Yeah, there's a weird one. Yeah, because the one on the right is definitely more
Complex and then disarm undeniably
Is it that it's in a plastic world? Therefore you feel like nothing's really gonna hurt you or something?
Disarming is uh having the effect of allaying suspicion or hostility especially through charm
Yeah, that's what I mean. Like he feels safer in in the plastic world and he thinks he shouldn't feel safe in what kind of the game
This is
uh
Okay, it's not like again. I was just trying because he's already described the game as like dreamlike and
Yeah
He's got a clip they're currently fighting for their life it's like it's disalbic he's like, okay
it's not the best words to describe his views here because
The actual words themselves like, you know, green like surreal and what he just recently said wasn't detail
or something, uh, they're not
you know
Equaling what is intending to say?
Is the problem it's too detailed or not enough?
Or the fact that it's plastic and the other one is like
Almost looks cartoony drawn
Does that somehow help? This is where I mean, I feel like you can just make these arguments in reverse if you really wanted to
Like the one on the left is too simple and disarming
And
Yeah, yeah and that would apply
Yeah a story it makes sense on paper and I can see the reasoning
But I just feel like it's too simple and disarming
It feels like it removes some of that true surrealism and turns it into just another silly kids playing with toys
It removes the true surreal surreal. What what what did the original one have that?
Made it more true and surreal
Yeah, uh, I think this is pretty sneaky
He said that um, you can see how they've gone this way for surrealism on paper
But it's not really truly surreal and it's like, excuse me
Explain to me what truly surreal means
Yes
Because you've just you've made a claim and you're going to try and get away with it
You can't I'm pulling you right back to that
And I gotta admit like
The surreal like how do we even define surreal like just it goes beyond reality, right?
It's pretty much the easiest way to put it without looking for an actual definition
Something that makes you feel like this is this is not reality everything being plastic. That's pretty fucking surreal
the proportions, I mean and
They both look pretty equally surreal and and I just kind of appreciate how the 3d one is reflecting the
Proportions and style of the 2d one so accurately it's like they're very equivalent
Like in there, you know adaptation is what i'm referring to I mean
You could make the argument that the one on the right is far more surreal because it's far more relatable
In a way because like it's almost like you recognize this but it's not right
Yeah, yeah
Like this is something that's close enough to reality to where I accept it without question
Even though I can tell it's not quite as it should be
I mean in that sense. I mean the fact that there's there seems to be some kind of atmosphere here again the shadows and the lighting
The it very I would sir and I would say the one on the right is more surreal
Well, yeah, because a lot of the time in dreams everything is normal
But there's loads of little bits that the poke out you're like that's insane
What like someone just clips through a wall and you're like?
The oddity is how it things should be
Yeah
You wake up and you're like man. That was fucking weird
But okay
That's how he feels about it. And this is the thing like I wonder if you would consider what we've just done an attack
I'd love to hear him respond to some of this. I'd be like
Yeah, let's really get to know it you've chosen surreal
I don't know if you want to stick to it or if you want to say you just chose it because it felt right at
the time but
Sure, explore it with us. Here we go. That's nothing
Is his idea of a response not at all addressing what we say, but just doubling down on what he says or only
Just talking about what he thinks about more because if he wants to be consistent, he can't actually go after what we're saying
It's an interesting comment in chat where someone laughs and says is this a video he made with an idea?
He had in mind lost it and then just kept going for ad revenue
I think
You know like uh when you get down to a specific detail and then you go back out of it and you have like an umbrella
To him and then you go back out of that and umbrella to him
So like someone out of acting out of character can be umbrellaed into there's a contradiction
In the film and that can be umbrella doubt too. I didn't like the film
And I think he's he's he's gone like to tier two where he's like, yeah these words and he's like
He's not thought about the next tier at all. Yeah, he doesn't think he needs I don't like it
I'll keep going
I think it's um, it's it's interesting to come at this because this is very like normie first level kind of
Discussion about you know media or art or anything like that. Yeah, that's all very wishy washy and yeah
Level is like you can't even get your thoughts across
Yeah, and and then you go to sort of second level, which is more like, you know
It's probably more like yes a lot of the content that's covered on efap where it's uh, it's a little bit more
Yeah, yeah exactly whereas with this one it's just so
Nebulous and vague and it's probably because there's never I don't know
Maybe it's because when he has discussions about video games
He's talking about it with people who largely share the same overall views. Well, they don't chance never really any
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And so then it's like because what I mean is
It feels like there's a big disconnect where like if he would have re-watched this stream
There'd be a lot of parts where I guess maybe wouldn't be following the point that's being made not because it's like
not not because like more just because it's probably inexperienced with
Discussing it on that sort of like to that extent, I guess I don't know
But then he made a three and a half hour review of breath of the wild. So it's like, I don't know
It's very confusing
I mean he definitely seems to feel passionately about a position that I don't think he's quite figured out and that's fine
Um, it's just it's funny because we like inspect
Inspect these phrases and words and then we're like
I don't know if this means exactly what you thought it meant. Maybe it did. Maybe it doesn't
No, but the thing the way he's trying to
Validate his opinion with the words he's using it's all very vague. It's not
No definitive in establishing the points he's trying to make in any way. It's all
Confusing as a result
Yeah
I guess we shall continue that. Uh one sec
I'd uh, the description was doubled up. Apparently I've singled it now. Thank you for the
Let me know chat
Isn't crafts kirby yoshi paper mario game toys are certainly fun, but there's nothing surreal and mysterious about a toy another
That's a claim again
There's nothing surreal about a toy which by definition is not real like
yeah
Do we even need a counter that one like he's just sweeping claim. There's nothing surreal about a toy
Yeah, that's does he even know what surreal means? Is he using it as a something feels ethereal maybe I don't know like
Yeah, there's there's nothing that needs to be said about that that's obviously wrong
My brain is like you can counter it this way this way this way this way and i'm like, I don't think we need to
I think it's so evidently a dumb dumb
Problem is that at least based on what I can see in the trailer links awakening does the whole toy thing
But it still doesn't quite go all the way with it making its design look kind of unfocused
I know I already said i'm not sure if the toy thing was the right choice
So I should be happy that it's not all toy
But this halfway point is weird in its own special way
All the trees look like they came out of plastic molds. These vines look like lego blocks or something
I'm sorry. What?
I'm yeah, uh
All the trees I would like to see the lego block that it in any way could be compared to those vines
First of all, the trees look like plastic
Good
Yep, like they came out of plastic molds these vines. No, hold on. See what it goes after this
It's the next point that breaks it the one after this one. I'm paused on the vines. Can you see them?
I'm at 12 30. Yes, I can but it's the one after this that breaks
I know i'm just saying that let's get a good look at these vines that he said they look like lego blocks
Look like lego to me. They look like plastic again, or maybe even like um, you might be meaning they
yeah
Yeah, you might be meaning that they look like that. They were clipped together out of different parts if that like again
to the toy part doesn't it
Yeah, it does. It does. That's why he's leading to the third point that breaks it
That's what i'm saying. I remember this point like lego blocks or something
But then lots of other stuff kind of just looks like stuff video game stuff. Yeah, you see what I mean
Like that's that's how it's broken because it looks like stuff
That texture has the same kind of sheen in certain places
Looks like it looks like tile and that's why he's gone wrong here
If those little like, um banner things there are like cloth in this game rather than like a plastic, uh, uh, sort of
um
Sheets, you know, whatever
um
That would still be fine because you can get plenty of plastic products that come with like paper editions or cloth editions in in different places
like as long as you may have
Um the toy aspect things yeah, like you can have wax paper you can have metal like that's a thing
There's metal on certain toys
It doesn't break the look at all this doesn't look like a video gamey thing and actually looks quite tangible
I guess we'll see what he's if he's going to go into more. Yeah, it looks like clay like a like a claymation
Yeah, I think his criticism is that it doesn't look like
Or it doesn't look as if it's made or be as much like plastic as the trees are
I think what he's trying to say is it looks like actual video game graphics as in it doesn't look like it's real
Which um, I can't follow because look at those ground textures that's quite detailed. Yeah, they look nice
Yeah, it looks like yeah like bathroom tile kind of or it's clearly like it looks like a floor
It looks like he's walking on a floor
It's actually really impressive like that's really impressive. It should work. It looks gorgeous. This game looks great
Not toys or anything
At least the other games I've mentioned went all out with their ideas and even oh, but not this
Okay
Okay
Told on the toy concept. There's a chance that going all out would have at least given the game a stronger identity of itself
It might not happen
In between I think one big issue he could have he could have gone into more detail about that
He's just like said like a line just moved on. It's like, okay
Yeah, like this doesn't have an identity. He's like, okay
I think his criticism now is that everything doesn't consistently look like plastic as much as I don't know if I agree with him on that
I think it looks pretty consistent
Yeah, i'm looking around at this still here and
Everything kind of does have that
glossy
waxy kind of reflection to it
Or it's made out of a material that sort of soaks it up and it doesn't nothing like stands out like it doesn't belong
He's kind of saying it like they've messed up
Which is kind of hilarious because it doesn't seem like they've messed up at all with this game when it comes to the graphics
You like couldn't I just make the claim that water shouldn't be here if it's all plastic
All plastic water, you know, well, you know, that's the thing plastic water is different than water water
But I think that it's nice. They've got water water here
I don't know. Even the water looks a bit like it's made from resin, which is what you have on models and you know
Yeah, it's uh, it all looks really good. That's what I mean. I don't I don't agree with this at all
I'm leaning on my bottle here
True that I have is the wasted potential as you might have seen in my pokemon. Let's go review
I'm not a big fan of square for square remakes of decades old games
I need not remind you that this is just personal preference. Sure and I agree
Uh, that's fine. It is. No, it's not you made some definitive claims here
It's not all subjective what he said. Oh, well, I don't know if he falls into the crowd of
You know, everything is subjective or not. Does he do you know?
I don't know. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I think he is sharing this in the
Context like this is just my opinion kind of thing. I think for the remake thing he is and to a degree
Yeah, I would be with him. Yeah, absolutely. But what he said before was just like everything in this video effectively
That's what he said. That's like nope. Yeah, that's that's up to debate that part
Is I know plenty of people want exactly this this is what a perfect remake is for them
But personally I see no reason why the developers couldn't have given themselves a little more wiggle room when designing the game or at least
Like the overworld the switch is capable of such beautiful graphics
I mean nintendo's artists are capable of now
This is just more of like a nitpick, right? Um a lot of nintendo channels have a very warped perception of graphical fidelity
Yeah, I was about to say it but like breath of the wild is not the best looking game i've ever seen
Yeah, it looks it looks fine
I I like the art style but graphically like it's actually kind of weak
Um, you compare this to god of war you compare this like god of war and it's not even close
It's serviceable. Sure. It's fine
But like I said, this is more of a nitpick because a lot of nintendo channels go. Oh, this is a very good looking game
it's like
yes, it was a very good looking game in like 2012 I would say but
I like the way it looks. Yeah. Yeah, I I think a lot of them confuse like
Pure graphical power with style
I know that I don't think they do. I think what it is is because they're nintendo channels. They're not really engaging as much with um
The other parts of the gaming industry
But that's just you assuming the uh, the uh, you know origin of their opinion they're freaking and therefore that's uh, yes
It sounded insecure there. It is an assumption. Um
But I think you're right to his mind
I think you're right to the thing is it's not really like a big problem
It's more of just a thing. I've noticed where you have them say this is a very good look
Like a very good looking game graphically. It's like I mean for the switch short, but yeah
It's like someone who only plays on a nintendo ds, you know. Yeah, exactly. It's um, this is definitely a nitpick
This is not a big deal at all
Um gorgeous designs, so why does the grass have to come in perfect?
He's messed up there, um why they've laid it out that way it's not graphics that's a design choice. Yeah. Yeah
That's nothing to do with graphical fidelity. Yeah
That's a choice aesthetic thing. Yeah, that that's a mechanic not an aesthetic. Yeah
Red layout the original version adds the toy. Well, that's the idea
It's one to one and yeah, it works for that. It's um
Because because the whole point of the tiles is um, it communicates to you very clearly
You know the world in very clear terms, you know where everything is these are the boundary
This is the space around you which is a bit different for you know, breath of the wild
Which is trying to be a big open world with 360 degree movement and all, you know all that
This is not it's not the same
and even when you have
uh games that have different levels that are
um
When you're when you can move in a three-dimensional space in all directions and things aren't in you know block structure
a lot of the times more I
For fear of sounding redundant more structured areas a lot of players prefer that a lot of people would prefer
To fight in a city than in a forest because a city has a kind of organization to it
Where it's very clear where you can go and where you cannot go
But with a forest there's rocks and trees and bushes and uneven ground and it you know
pathing is generally can be a little more difficult, so
You know that could be its own thing, but it's uh some to consider certainly
Turn to these vines again. Why do they have to be made of these perfect little repeating lego blocks?
They could have accomplished all the same stuff. No, no, no, they couldn't have
Not at the same design. No
Yeah, not design
Yeah, like the aesthetic is part of the aesthetic
He could have said maybe even the aesthetic but from a gameplay design standpoint. No, it's totally different
Yeah
It will play similarly
Made a perfectly faithful remake while still making it feel more organic
Not realistic just real within the world more detailed more artful and to swing
That's such a bunch bunch of words right there
Yeah, like I don't even know how to tackle that more artful like oh my that's a word
Yeah
It's a very subjective morphous word, right? I just yeah, I need him to lock that word down because it can go a lot of places
Back around to the cartooniness thing again cartooniness isn't a problem simplicity is a problem
This game has so much potential to take the original and build it into something beautiful something that the original developers might have made
dude
Wow
And this is clearly like they want to duplicate the gameplay style
Yes, original but he's then saying that they shouldn't have done that
They should have built it to something greater and like only keep vague story the same perhaps or something
What they were intending
Yeah, of course, they could have done more obviously
They didn't accidentally recreate this game one for one. They clearly
Wanted to take an old game
Right, but just give it that new coat of paint some new, you know better mechanics like, you know
Moving diagonally and stuff like that, you know, but it basically has the a similar gameplay to the old classic
It's like an homage in a way
Yep a tribute
Ah, yes
If they had the hardware power to do it
But this square by square toy style limits it it brings everything down to a simple toy like which is what it is
Presentation of the original sprites instead of letting it be as artistically interesting. This is pretty fucking artistically interesting
Yeah, i'm almost in the interest of injecting. It's like he's so he's making so many claims that are just unfair
Like this game looks really cool
Yeah, he lost me when he said they could have done something beautiful
I guess this isn't it, you know, yeah. Yeah, what's this shit?
Instead of saying how can we make this look better?
They said how can we make this look just like the original but in 3d?
Like I said, I do think this looks like the original but in 3d. Are you insane?
I'm pretty sure he's argued against that himself also is proven. That is better
It's like trying to say that it's not better, but they could have made something better
This dude's great
Bad rap
It looks very pretty in its own way
But I also feel like it could be so much more while still completely embodying the tone and spirit and even the precise design
of the original and
Tone spirit and precise design of the original
Yeah
Kind of this is helped by that opening cinematic it is so
so
Gorgeous. It really sets up expectations that the actual gameplay can't quite meet that intro truly does represent can't quite meet
It's not the same thing
What?
What do you think they were this what for starters is unfair because this is a 2d animation
Like yeah, what are you asking them to do here? Like how do they meant to make it look like this?
Like the the gameplay can't live up to this is like this can't live up to the gameplay now what?
Yeah
now what
They're too completely. They're not meant to well, this is the intro cinematic. So yeah
Yeah
Original game I can imagine using this beautiful painterly style that really does the tone justice and turns the world
The tone does the tone justice
And I know this video is absolutely packed with agains and like I said
But again, like I said
I get what they were going for as many people have pointed out. The intro is a direct you do
I don't think you do
I like how we're so deflated at this point
Yeah, there's so much to criticize that i'm almost like I can't do it. Like there's just too much wrong with this
He's not really said much of anything
Uh definitive that this provable is so many words that are just like big left on the table. I'm like, what's this one?
What's this one? What's this one?
Yeah
And then it also becomes down to such a subjective opinion on what he feels
The game should be like and therefore it would have been I don't like the should I don't like the should
It should be like this. This is how the game should look
Yeah should implies that you have an end goal or an end thing that you want
Right you're trying to get to something or you're trying to what is that?
What is that end goal because it seems like the end goal was to make a very faithful
recreation of the gameplay style of the original in 3d and that and it looks like they
Do that really effectively right? His end goal is what I like
Seems like it
And I still don't know what that is
Make of the original intro then kind of separately the main game is a direct remake of the original main game
If that original sprite link were converted to 3d, this is what he would probably look like the style is absolutely accurate
But remember when everyone was crazy about watchmen and then the watchman movie came out and besides the detail in the ending
The vast majority of the movie was like shot by shot constructed directly from panels in the original graphic novel
And that didn't make it a good movie
Like at all this is the this is the adaptation argument
This is a false equivalence as well a massive false equivalence
Yeah, the movie is not the same as a game
Okay
The interactive nature of a game's mechanics are impossible to ignore and they just they they separate the mediums in an extremely meaningful way
massively, so
Not to mention you are trying to oh, yeah
I guess so he's referring to this new game as an adaptation of the old game and just because
You've correctly because that's what he's defined it. He's correctly updated the um, but that's not what he's saying
He's suggesting that because you've adapted it faithfully and that you've you've
Taken all the things that were there before and made them to new things doesn't mean it's going to be good
I'm curious why he's showing the shining. What's he going to say about this?
Oh
Wolf would have weeks wolf would have lots of
He said it was vastly superior in every single way. That sounds pretty objective to me
Let's do that. He said don't at me. So it's a joke ringing. It's just a joke. Calm down
Yeah, yeah, I I could throw that in at the end. It's a joke. Don't act
I'm not actually you should do it the end of your game of thrones video maula
Don't at me and it's like cool
You realize don't at me is just the end of the sentence version of in my opinion
Well, even though in my opinion can fucking go there, too
I thought well, I don't at me is just like don't hate me for having
On it. I can't believe i'm saying this. It's complicated. Don't at me as in like this is my position
I'm not going to entertain the idea of uh people fighting against it. We all have our opinions. Leave me alone
Yeah, and it's also used as like a jokey way of saying I know what I said was controversial
Yeah
Um, yeah, anyway, I should say don't at me after I can get my apple and peep
Yeah, don't at me guys. I really the fucking mantra of efap is every sentence ends with at me
Go ahead
When steven king didn't like stanley kuberk's adaptation of the shining because despite being a vastly superior piece of fiction in every possible way
Don't at me. It wasn't accurate enough
So then he wrote his own screenplay which they made into the most perfectly accurate tv mini series based on a book ever
And it was like the worst movie
Watching that movie was like
Okay, I can't stand what he's saying here that if it's going to be accurate to the source material
He's it seems like he's implying it's going to be inherently bad and i'm like no
I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt and assume that he's trying to counter the notion that if it's accurate it's better
Yeah, that's what i'm getting. Uh, but I will say that I guarantee you there's so much context
We're not getting from what he's provided us. I don't believe him
I don't believe that the theory series is bad because it's accurate to the fucking books. I'm sure there's way more to it than that
Billing coffee on yourself and having to sit in it for four hours. It was miserable
I'm, not saying link's awakening will turn out like watchmen or the shining tv movie. I wouldn't even make a joke about that
That's going too far
I'm just saying that accuracy shouldn't always be the end goal of a remake
I think capturing the spirit of the original and expanding on it overall improvement should be the goal
All right. So improvement is okay. So
Improvement is objective complicated to say improvement when it comes to art style
Yeah
Like what's he mean like is yarn and improvement from plastic is plastic and improvement from realism is realism and improvement from cartoon
I like star wars more than pride and prejudice
And so if I was making a pride and prejudice adaptation into film and make it like
Basically one for one new hope
Is that an improvement again for some people it will be but it's strayed so far from what the source material was
It's no longer
An adaptation it's something completely different
And so there is certain things that you must keep the same for it to actually remain the same thing
And so his guy here is just to improve something like no
People like the original for very specific reasons and you need to keep those things in place for people to
Maintain that same level of like
Barely expansion in terms of gameplay
I'm perfectly fine with the gameplay remaining mostly the same which is why if that final fantasy 7 remake ever comes out
Which it probably won't i'm staying away from it because it sounds like they're reimagining it into a new game entirely
There are some cases where revamp it like a new game
Yeah, yeah, this is this is like a new game. We're in weird territory like again
Yeah, it's about intention the final fantasy remake the whole intention is to
Make it like uh, you know a platformer a modern day platformer
And so they're completely redoing the gameplay whereas with zoda the whole intention behind it was to maintain the gameplay
If if this was the attitude that he was going to be consistent with and sorry, peter jackson with your lord of the rings
Yeah, I don't know there's so many variables that i'm almost lost like again like so
What is his even argument for games being easy? He's almost arguing for how they were you know, you could do anything could result better
I'm just like, okay. Thanks for adding this to the conversation like I uh
A one-to-one remake one-to-one just the graphics get boosted almost like a remaster instead. It's like well
Doesn't yeah i'm okay with that, but i'm also okay with
uh a remake as well like this is a different scene something like the crash bandicoot trilogy and um
Resident evil 2 remake well the one and resume of one remake I guess it's like these are different things
Isn't the whole point that we have remake and remasters two different terms?
Would you call would you call this zoda one a remaster a remake
remake
It's a remake. Yeah
A suit. Well, I mean, I can't be sure if everything is the same
I was gonna say if the mechanics and the the the world everything's the same except the graphics then I guess it would be a remaster of
Source yeah, but I think with um, I I but I think with the idea of stuff like diagonal movement
I mean even that in and of itself is pretty a pretty substantial
You know change and i'm not sure what else they do, but even that alone is like
Yeah, this brings into question then exactly what the line between remaster remake is and it can get complicated
If you have a remaster that changes any one mechanic, is it now a remake?
Yeah
I'm not ready to I mean I don't have a huge investment in it
The difference between the two
But I would imagine that the the further and further the more and more changes that it makes the closer it gets to remake
And there's a couple of differences or big differences
Between the final fantasy one and zoda one
I mean we have a lot of different other zoda properties exploring different gameplay styles and stuff like that from the older
Zelda forms and stuff and this is like a nod back to the original but with final fantasy seven
I mean it's like it's a time to explore with these characters in a new gameplay style that everyone is really keen to see and stuff
I don't know
Maybe if they did a remaster of the original people would still be on board with it as well
and if they were going for a remaster, then
Um, we would hope to the gameplay to be maintained in a very faithful way
Well, yeah, I think if they did that and they said this is a remaster of the original legend of zelda
We'd be like, all right the same exact game
Mechanically identical just updated graphics. I think people would really like to try that
But if they framed it as oh, yeah the next official zelda game it's this
And it was that honestly step backwards people would obviously have issues
You know, it's how you treat it and what you're trying to do and yeah, what expectations you set up for it as well
Yeah
A lot of stuff is a good idea like with samus returns
But it depends on each individual case and now i'm getting too deep into something
That is not the point the point is that at least in this specific case?
I am happy with the gameplay being basically the same
But I feel like the art style could be so much more whether it's with painterly visuals or simply with damn
What do you want if this is if this disappoints you like fuck man?
You have some pretty high stand if he was here right now and just said no. Sorry. I'm just saying I I I
Don't I have a preference against plastic looks i'd be like, okay
Okay. Yeah. Okay, but he seems to keep wanting to save all the bat like he wants to be like, oh, yeah
Yeah, I think it's definitely more than just I don't like the texture
Doesn't convey the ethereal nature that this game originally implied
A
Tailed artistic yet still completely colorful and cartoony and fun 3d graphics just not factory made plastic
Copy pasted plant models and that's really unfair to the work that's gone into this clearly
Yeah, this game looks like it. Oh, it looks like it's got so much heart
He's describing my pet peeve and you know, that's fine. If he doesn't like that
Yeah, no, i'm almost making like a moral judgment on him there. That's my personal preference
Question his judgment
I just I don't know why he's attacking these things instead of just convincing us of what he wants
No
It's like oh god, it's like this video shit
Tiny sheens that make some things look like plastic even though they're not plastic or they maybe you calling them plastic
I don't really know
And there's one last thing i've got to say about opinions and art styles and stuff because I don't know when it'll come up again
Even if you think it is wrong to dislike this art style, even if you think people have the wrong wrong to dislike it
Also, okay, it's not wrong
You said that like if who says these things
Yeah
Is that people say the game isn't bad because it has an art style you don't like is like I think that would be the appropriate response
But they're not saying it's wrong to dislike. Well, I don't know who would say that
I'm sure if you could find someone out there
But at that point you're like why even talk about them and we also have to find out if they were just joking around
Because you can probably quote us as saying it but it's usually going to be sarcastic
Yeah, I think it is wrong to dislike this art style
Even if you think people have the wrong reasons for disliking it or if you think it's wrong for a person to not play
The game because they don't like the art style
It doesn't matter well, let's put it this way. What if your reason for disliking this art style is literally because it was
Uh developed on a friday or you were beaten with a plastic doll when you're younger
Yes
Is that the wrong reason to dislike
This is getting into the hole. What makes a reason right or wrong? He's like is it
Justified as he said a reasonable reason or what did he say? Was that what he said? I can't remember
Like earlier in the video you described and I and I said like oh implying that there are unreasonable reasons
Oh, yes, that's right. Are some reasons more reasonable than others?
You know, like well
I feel that um
because of the I don't know some
Because of the socioeconomic impacts of the devastation of the japanese empire following world two
I feel like this texture in the zelda video game
Doesn't uh, you know, I don't like it because of that reason
And then someone else says well
I don't like it because I feel like there are certain assets that don't fit in aesthetically with other assets
Like which one of those is more reasonable of the two for not liking, you know the textures of the zelda game
I like how um when he spun the sword, it's like warped the visuals underneath it
Yeah, it has
That is really nifty. It's like it's yeah, that's really cool
That's opinions dude people can dislike anything for any reason they want there was once a time when I thought that all the other
Yeah, stop saying that nobody's claiming. It's illegal. You're all right. It's not illegal. Not yet. Yes
Stop fucking bringing this up
Not yet
Teenagers around me who were skipping out on wind waker because of the style were so ignorant and wrong
But now I know it didn't matter whatever so we've just we probably just be like, okay
You're lost if you really want to be like any kind of so if someone said like i'm not gonna play god of war
Because I don't like bald people i'd be like
Whatever, man
Your deal. Okay
They were perfectly within their right something too many within their right
So I hate when people do this no one's taking it right away
Who is taking your right away to not like zelda video game aesthetics who who is this person?
If you're not going to tell us then you're oh
Yeah, this is stupid this is not only do different people enjoy
Sorry, I didn't mean to play it there. Um
No, it says that he's he's he's trying to set up a defense for himself against people that essentially don't exist
Yeah
Because of the style were so ignorant and wrong
But now I know it didn't matter they were perfectly within their right something too many people don't seem to understand
Is that not only do different people enjoy different things?
But sometimes they enjoy the same things for this is this this is like preachy kindergarten garbage
Welcome to the internet. No, welcome to life
Like this is the opening people like different things and that's okay
That's your right. Everyone. It's like a kindergarten teacher just on her knees
You know going down to little timmy's level just to explain them face fail
Sometimes little timmy people like different things like fuck off. We're adults. You're an adult
It is your government given god given cosmos given right to enjoy zelda. All right
Oh, but we will say there is a difference between liking something and saying something is objectively good
And if they felt that semantically they were just that's all that meant saying objectively good
Whatever just like just I wish you just explained what you're saying because it sounds like garbage
There could be a person who enjoys games purely based on how good their music is
That person is not wrong same with voice acting or character models or color
This point a lot of people
Really?
It's not a joke we made where like major lee is just fucking thrashing this straw man
And you're like you got it. Good job. Yeah, we're over here
All right. Yep, you showed him. Yeah, it's like a big anime fight is you know charged up as attacks
Just blast through the chest of the straw man with this blank face. It just it's just like yup
Whenever you're done we're over here even the straw man's like I wasn't a particularly good point anyway, so
Yeah, you're doing me a service. I don't even know what to tell you about
People seem to think that playing games based purely on graphics is the mark of the stupidest person ever a person who doesn't even like
Or understand games, but it's not they're just liking what they like. You could have a person who just loves rocks
How good do the rocks look how many rocks are there can you pick up the rocks?
These are the metrics by which they judge the quality of the game some crazy person out there thinks that
Okay. Why are we talking about? I don't even know why we're on this now
Like yeah, sure. Everyone can like anything for any reason. That's a crazy thought
So does he dislike the links awakening remake overall because of the art style like it hasn't played it yet
This came out before the game came out
So
What has he said about it?
He said that he just didn't like the art style and there's not interest in the game and people any flack for it
Well, he's gonna play the game. He's a nintendo channel. He's definitely played the game
For us being as kind as possible
I would say he made a video explaining that he doesn't like the art style because it doesn't match the surreal nature of zelda
And there's uh, it's almost inconsistent with itself as well
But he'll give it a shot and that everyone can like anything
People are close-minded if they disagree with him
And assume his reasons for just liking the art style. That is the best faith version of what we have heard in this video
Yes, like we've given up a lot of leeway considering all the things he said
Because yeah a lot of it was vague using really weird some of it was outright wrong
But all right
What that is based purely on rocks that that is very different from how i'm having monday now
Probably use that as a reason I guess as chats pointing out
To really create rocks to collect
Measure games. I just don't have the same tastes as that person and their standards even seem a little silly to me
But it doesn't matter. Wow. What you just said was no no less power. We need less of those people
We need less people judging a video game quality and enjoyment based on rock textures
We need less of those people, but he said that he thought those people's standards was silly. That's an attack
Yeah, how dare you call someone's standards silly?
More power to them. Let them enjoy their rock games and you can't tell them that they're wrong or they're playing
So what if someone legitimately does not like a game because it had too many black people in it
Definitely you can totally say that they're morally wrong. You can make a moral judgment. Yeah, I would say that would be wrong
Yeah
Well, the thing is though is I feel like if you said this you'd be like, yeah
But we're obviously not talking about that we're just talking about video
But it's like no we're trying to test the principle
Like I mean because it's funny we have said you're allowed to like, you know
Whatever you want as long as you're not saying well, we're appealing to the ability
Yeah, but I mean I think I want a question that I would say to say if you I mean I think it's fair to
um, uh
Try and critique the reasons why someone likes it to see if it's valid or not
I mean
I'm generally interested in knowing why people like things that I think are horribly bad
And if someone just said they liked a horrible movie because it had good rocks in it. I'll be like
Uh, you're it. Yeah, you're okay white in person. Yeah. All right. Um
Okay, you know
Well, this is the thing about something else because you're just interesting the thing about the rocks though
It's like what if you had a friend who was like an extremely well versed? Um, I don't know if there's a specific
profession for this but let's just go with archaeologist. Oh, yeah, there you go. Sorry that would work better
So like and it's just a game that's hyper realism adventure game and there's loads of extremely well rendered variations of different rocks and rock related
uh
You know items objects or whatever and you can catalog them
Dig them out and there's like elements of mechanics to it and they're just like I fucking love this game because of the rocks
You'd be like, yeah, that makes sense
That's makes sense. I mean
Doesn't mean it's a good game. No, that's true too. Well that it is generally enjoyable for
More common reasons. Yeah
Looking rock games man underrated
Okay
Wrong reasons. You don't know them. You're not in their head
You just don't have the same tastes and priorities as them and I know what a revelation graphic. Whoa crazy
It's almost like he said that a million times already
I had no idea
I'm so glad that so many creators make this video and it's such a boring fucking take
Hey, man, it's subjective. Wow people are different. Oh shit this whole time. I thought that everyone was
Yeah, don't you dare assume the reasons why they hold such opinions because that's being closed-minded and oh, yeah
It's an art style art fine, but they are secondary to good gameplay superfluous even
But video games are a visual medium
If someone doesn't want to play a game because they don't like how it looks you can not convince me that that's unreasonable
I know i've turned down games because I didn't like how they looked
I don't want to stare at something that I think is ugly for 10 to 20 hours
I just liked how a game looked then didn't end up coming around five years later as some people seem to insist will happen with
Link's awakening
I still think skyward sword is one of the ugliest zelda games not because it's different or because it's colorful
But because I don't think it looks very good
Oh, it's a tautology, isn't it? It's ugly because it doesn't look good
But like yeah, yeah not playing something because you don't like the way it looks that's fine. I mean there's a lot of games
Nobody's nobody's making this argument like yeah, like um
Fucking it up though
Yeah
You may like, you know
Stop with the fluff. Just say I don't like it because I don't like it because I don't like it because I don't like it
You're like, right, right. Yeah. Okay. I got it. Yep. That's fine. That's okay
To hammer it home. You've just got to remember that you're not the thought police
It is not your job to make sure everyone no, that is my job. Fuck you. This is the internet
That is my job. That is my eternal calling
As a part of our career actually like
There is there is a big difference in saying I don't like the art style to the art style is bad because it doesn't match the
Ethereal nature of zelda or something. I hang I because that's what he was saying. He's been saying
far more
Like um definitive statements as to why the art style is
Legitimately not good for the style of game that it is and that's a lot different to just him saying I don't like the art style
Yeah
Is being a little disingenuous and trying to summarize this video as him just simply saying i'm not going to play the game
Because I don't like the art style
It's different
Job to make sure that everyone plays every single game that they might end up enjoying
Because to not play those games would be an injustice
Who cares man?
You ever hear the phrase you do you because it's something of a mantra that i've been living by in recently
How many times you can
That's definitely hypocritical. Like what do you mean? This whole video is a response to things that have annoyed you
Not to mention that uh, you don't do you depending on what you're doing
Yeah, you do you unless you are challenging sponsor opinion
If you walked by you walked by al schwitz and you're like, uh, you do you you do
Yeah
Christ not how I would have handled the handles all jews, but you know, you do you man
That's you know, that's one way to do it. I guess well, that's what I mean
Like that this is very easy to say but like you do you I don't think anybody really believes that either
I feel like that's another thing that is a lie
Everyone's like to like everything everybody do your own thing
Attakey, it's just nonsense
Sanity and he's like everybody stop doing you
We gotta stop
If you haven't clicked away already here's here's a really big one that I see literally every day
Very often in literally every day and please pay attention here because this is really important
An opinion doesn't become a complaint just because you disagree with it
An opinion doesn't become a complaint because you disagree with it
well, surely your opinion is a complaint if there is a complaint being made right like
What does he mean by this?
An opinion doesn't become a complaint because you just because you disagree with it. No, wouldn't it be a complaint before that?
It's a complaint either way. You could agree with it, but it's still a complaint wait
This room is way too cold. I agree. Those are both still complaints
What if someone says I love this movie
I disagree. I think well, no, I can't disagree with them not liking the movie. So hang on
This is very complicated, right? Because this movie is great. I could highlight for example like, um, uh something of a
Gandalf wearing sneakers in a scene in all the rings. I go. Oh, he's wearing sneakers in all the rings
That's my that's my judgment right there. That's my opinion when someone goes
Disagrees with it and says they're actually I don't know some other shoe
The idea that I'd be like it's not a complaint. It's like it's an observation. I guess I don't know
What does he mean by complaint like a thing that actually personally annoys me?
That i'm trying to
Because i'm gonna say like if I enjoy something but can notice a flaw in it and is that necessarily a complaint or an observation or
It's a statement that a situation is unsatisfactory or unacceptable
Okay
It really depends on the opinion really yeah and
He's basically trying to say an opinion isn't necessarily complaining about something even if you disagree with it
Well, it's like those things don't have anything whether you agree with it or if it is a complaint then yeah
But like you say this movie is great and someone disagrees with it. It doesn't turn what they said into complaint
Yeah, but like that's that's obvious though, isn't it because that's how language works
That's one of why i'm getting confused it's like yeah, why is he's comparing two things
He's done this multiple times in this video, but he's taking two things that
Don't counter each other or really have anything to do with each other in any way
And like trying to link them together like complaint and agreeing with it
It's like no whether you agree with it or not. It's still a complaint that has nothing to do with it
Let's see what he says
Like it's funny how someone can say how much they like something and everyone nods their heads and thinks it's great
But then that person criticizes something and suddenly wait. Yeah. Okay, so I understand so like but uh in in the reverse
Would he say that just because you agree with an opinion that doesn't mean it's an appraisal?
Right exactly. It's he's got a mixed up. Well, I just I don't know that like i'm trying to figure this out
Do I agree with this? I don't think so
I don't know whether or not you agree with it doesn't change what the words mean
As far as i'm aware. Yeah, so if i'm not sure like what defines a complaint
Uh, this is this is weird
This is wages like saying this horse has four legs even if it's saturday
Yeah, but also it could be sunday too and the horse would have four legs
Yeah, and why are we even talking about this these two things don't have anything to do with each other this is
Weird he's stretching this out a lot
This video is if the only goal here is to just be like leave everyone alone to say whatever they want
Just like okay, just say that
I'd still say no, but at least it'd be shorter, right?
Yeah, suddenly you get people going stop complaining stop whining
Like I don't agree with this point
If it's done respectfully, it's just expressing an opinion like any opinion
And I know this is just based on my personal experience with this whole fuck's sake
He just he just said like all of this is my opinion about opinions being just my opinion. Let's just shut the fuck up
But i've seen like no one quote unquote complaining about the art style I see people expressing their opinions
I'm sure someone is I mean you are you're complaining but i'm sure they're out there but
Generally, this seems to be a very welcome
Aesthetic that people enjoy looking at what he means when he says he hasn't seen people complaining
What he means is I haven't seen people like whinging and crying about it. They've just been expressing their opinion like I did
That's what he means. What does what does it mean to be a complaint from his eyes?
Yeah, that's that's the way that we need to understand the definition crying about it being upset
His uh, you know your opinion about the art style are not complaints and people have accused him and sold him
Well, I mean, yeah, this is obviously complaining about it when it's obviously yeah
Clearly people can equate that as complaining if you're criticizing. Um
It doesn't make it valid or invalid. I just think he doesn't want to be seen as a complainer because he doesn't like the art style
Yeah
And that is being a complainer
What would you define complaint? How would you define it?
Well, basically what rags read out as a definition sounds reasonable enough to me. Um
A statement that a situation is unsatisfactory or unacceptable
Yeah
No, no, no what i've been doing is something else but those complainers out there
God it's just so
Bizarre it's just too wishy washy. There's so many words
So many different words
And usually I don't mind words
It's that is not using the words in the correct definition and context and sorry it makes everything vague and nebulous
Yeah, the the point of words is to is to essentially reverse mind read and he's been doing that very poorly
I do not understand what's going on in his head. Really? It's it's all over the place. It's contradictory. He's not
Applying the same standard to himself that he applies to others
This is just this video does
This is like a a
three and a half four minute video
That he is just dragging
out
And quite frankly i'm sick of looking at the same footage over and over i'm gonna do the thing that he doesn't like people
Doing here. Here goes i'm gonna do it. I think that he's a little bit insecure slash bitter from all the responses
He's been getting after he's been making statements like he has in this video publicly
And that he's frustrated that he's getting clamped down on this when people who are positive about it won't be
When I think you'll find that it happens to both sides
So if someone said this is an amazing look perfect for zelda some guy might be like
Perfect for zelda. I think you'll find it's probably the least suitable thing in that could happen to zelda
And then that person could be like why is it that when I have a positive opinion people criticize it's like it still happens
Still happens principally. It's allowed to happen on both sides. It's not that it's not allowed to happen on either side. That's bullshit
Yep, especially when you're going way further than just saying I dislike it or I do like it
Oh, yeah
But hey
That's just a game theory. I don't actually know that as true. So it's not an attack. Okay, that was my guess
That's my assumption. Don't at me. Do not put the at on me
Do not do it
Do not shift to at me
I'm at a piece of art and I don't like what I see
Sometimes even I don't like it and here's why
The ones who are doing what could be described as complaining are the ones telling people that it's wrong to dislike the art style
The people going there someone actually told you that it's wrong to dislike the art style
Yeah, like i'm sure this one could have would have whatever. I just like they're really phrasing it that way
What why are you giving such time attention and weight to these
Fringe crazy people if they even do exist. I just find it funny. That is
Literally trying to redefine the meaning of complain
I'm not complaining. You're complaining
This is what it means to complain people. It's like that's not the meaning of the word
They're all wrong this is wind waker all over again in five years they'll love it that's complaining
It's complaining when you try to make the world fit your point of view by getting in people's faces about how you think
This is not what the word means
I like that he's like presenting his ideas for what complaint means like please adopt them
It's like I don't think anyone's gonna be adopting that dude. No, this is absurd
Some of this is just like he's like redefining complain to me being an asshole in different like ways
Like it let's just listen to that again. Listen to his uh, his his defining terms
For uh doing what could be described as complaining are the ones telling people that it's wrong to dislike the art style
The people going they're all wrong. This is wind waker all over again in five years. They'll love it. That's complaining
It's complaining when you try to make the world fit your point of view by getting in people's faces about how you think it
Should be and before you say it that just makes you a bit awkward
Yeah, but also like that doesn't that doesn't stand up to scrutiny because there are a lot of instances like the american revolution god
Why are you so obsessed with this?
Wow guys stop complaining god like I need to ask him now
It's like could someone make a complaint that you would consider to be a good thing
It doesn't seem like it complaint is negative
Yeah, he's like man. I really wish I wasn't a slave all those nazis killing the jews was really bad and I can't stand it
Yeah, I think they're kind of going to go a little bit on the board stop complaining. Oh damn it
Yeah, it's the same man
I I wish that I wasn't poor and I wish I had food to eat or I wish I wasn't a slave or I wish I didn't
Have cancer, you know, just stop complaining
He said like something about trying to impose you your view on other people and I know he's referring to liking or disliking video games
But I was like you could extrapolate that principle by good man. I don't think you want to yeah
So someone in chat said he's literally complaining that people aren't complaining, right?
I
Before you say it
I think there's a big difference between aiming criticism at a company or a piece of art
And talking about how you think it would be better if it were different
And going out of your way to tell people how you think they should well you think that there's no
On the end of that that's going to receive that you think there's no person who made that fucking art style
It's not going to be a little bit pissed off about your complaints
Also, what is this logic like if you complain against a company it's okay, what but if you complain against people it's not
Different in the form of a complaint as well like
Man this really derailed in the end not that it was all
No be different that's really at the core of all this have all the opinions you want say them all you want stop saying that
All you want it's not even a good position to hold like no
They have untenable positions
Yeah, contradictive opinions what happens then that was good. That's good. Yeah, man like opinions can be shitty
I know there were a group of people that started with the word the letter
And they had opinions
It's just opinions man
But once you try to force an opinion on someone else or you assume that a different opinion
What does it mean to force an opinion on someone else?
Am I strapping these people down and blasting it with speakers into the air that somebody's made an opinion in error
He says it like that's not possible, but it is
I
Can honestly make mistakes and if someone helps you out with that that's a good thing
Like man, I hated the fourth matrix movie you're like dude, there wasn't a fourth matrix
I mean, well that'll change but you know what I mean
It's like that's my opinion. Let me allow
It must have been made in error. You've crossed the line
If someone is spreading misinformation feel free to inform them if
All right, so if they're spreading misinformation you can inform them. Okay. What if I think you're spreading misinformation
Oh, come on. I think you're spreading it
We're veering really close to only do it when I think it's okay
Okay, my standards are don't they don't exist I just don't have them they they're on a thing
So if I was going to take the really controversial position of yeah
You can challenge opinions and it doesn't even have to be whether or not you think the person is lying or not
or spreading this information
Oh be still my heart
Come on someone is harassing the people around them. Feel free to call that person out
Interjection and confrontation have their places
But if someone expresses a personal opinion about a piece of media
Tell them how you disagree offer your own opinion as a means of discussion
But let them have what do you mean by stop saying that it doesn't make sense
Let them have their opinion. How how could anybody not let someone have their opinions in the world like really bad opinions
Yeah, but like how am I meant to take it away from someone that you kill them? I guess
like commit murder you like
Murder people with opinions. You don't like you pull out of the brain that holds that opinion
How do you like flush it down the toilet just hit the reset button on the brain
Damn
How many times has he said that?
This is he wrote the fucking the the the declaration of independence with john adams about the part where you're allowed to like the last
Jedi didn't he he was there
All that was in the background
Be mature be confident in your own opinion discuss don't discuss don't argue
Um
About seeing you I fucking guarantee you if I was to discuss anything with him
It would take a matter of minutes for him to argue for something
A discussion can be an argument. They don't like exclusive
Stop demonizing arguments. It's weird arguments can be good arguments can be discussions
I bet this is discussions
He's saying that now because he's got a position that he doesn't he is not confident in it
He does not think he can justify it to people if they ask him
He you're you're assuming you're assuming the reason yeah, but he also assumed that people are insecure. I know
I was gonna say he crossed the line well before we even considered crossing it
Yeah, he crossed the line, which means he's on my side and we play by my rules on my side
His rules don't make any sense. Anyway
He doesn't have rules
I'm pretty sure that's the end now. It's like an ad
He clearly defines arguing as something aggressive and you know
Throwing names at each other being a mean one basically
He doesn't understand because this video was quite mean
Yeah, this video is more than mean for sure
This is what I mean. I find it hilarious when people are like, oh stop being so mean
It's like but i've so often seen people be like actually incredibly mean and like try to hide it
What has he said about he's called people?
Ignorant he's called them ignorant insecure. Um
Close-minded yeah immature
Um
Yeah, and then the basis for that like was if you assumed
The reasons for someone putting an opinion your close-minded ignorant
Well simultaneously arguing for being a man who's like you do you it's like yes you do you accept it fucking all these different things
Yep
Them have their opinion be mature be confident in your own opinion discuss don't argue
And most importantly of all remember that i'm gonna be at midwest gaming classic in wisconsin. That's over. All right. We did it
Oh and just in time oh you gotta go because i'm still leaving like five i have to leave in like five minutes
Uh, what about you shad? How are you doing?
Oh
I'm pushing through guys. The kids will be home soon. So you might hear shadowlings in the background for a bit
But let's keep going. I was gonna say the plan was right two three videos technically
But two of them were respondy videos
One of them was going to be a video where we just sort of watch it
And obviously you can pause if you find a place to disagree in it
But it's actually a video that I quite like so instead
I think we're going to go with the one video to respond to since that would took us just over four hours
um
So we're gonna skip ahead to the one that we're just gonna watch and the other video I had
We can save for another time. This will always have other times to be able to do this. So no worries, but um
Yeah, um, I well, I guess do you want to eject now fringy or do you want to? Oh, yeah, sure might as well then
What was the other respondy video i'm interested the title of it is objectively good doesn't exist
Oh damn, but obviously
Yeah, that one's like a half hour so we can't do that as well
That one will take four hours. That'll be a full episode as I want to be there for that one
Well, uh, this was the video that you said you wanted to be there for the last efap. So I will make a note
Look at that. I thought the one we just watched was that's what I mean
This so, you know you on the last efap you wanted to be here for this one and you are and now you're gonna be there
For the next one when we get to it, which you will I promise
Um, but yeah fringy do you wanna which which channel do you want to plug the most your uh,
My regular channel my regular channel. So what is it that you do on this regular channel?
uh, nothing for the last year and a half, but
Maybe that'll change soon. Keep an eye out
You want to well, that's it. I that's it. Yeah
Uh, that was fun to some extent
Fucking oh, we got a shit ton of discussion out of it. Thank you. Arlo
Um, yeah, and
I always feel obliged to say that you know
Nothing against you personally. You're probably a really friendly nice guy that we get along with fine
And we can hang out and play video games
It doesn't mean we're attacking you because we disagree with some of the things you say, you know, right?
This wasn't the personal attack
I hope you have fun for me. We will catch you again sometime. I'm sure of it. Yeah. Catch you later. Gentlemen. Goodbye, sir
That's your back
So, um
this other video, um
Is is made by a guy who I believe is a fan of efap. Um
Don't want to be assuming too much, you know
Yeah, but he made a video and this is funnily enough to be i'm just like oh, this is um
quite uh
Bold of you. The title of it is art is not subjective
Um, very very bold
Um, but yeah, so the idea here is i'm gonna we're gonna watch it and then i'll probably talk about um, if we pause we can just
Explore some stuff. Maybe maybe not
And uh at the end of it then i'll just talk about who made it and where you can find the video. So
Is everybody good to objectively back? Hey, I gotta take care of something
I'll be back in just a little bit, but i'll be gone for just a little bit like 10 minutes or more. Uh
10 20 maybe
Let's just say should we wait that or
Is it possible to do this thing after you see this video or no
Uh, sure. Yeah, if yeah, I think I yeah, okay cool because me and shag can just talk about this then we'll be fine
Okay. All right. Here we go. Like I said, I don't know how much pausing we will actually do but feel free to
Objectively bad an objective badness based on quantifiable unbiased facts and science and mathematics
And hold on. I need to check something real quick
Yeah, no all of my crazy pills are still here I haven't taken any of them so
Why does it feel like i'm taking crazy pills?
Because it really feels like i'm taking crazy pills. Here's the thing art is subjective
All film is subjective. All art is subjective art is subjective
Art is not a science. There is no means to universally or factually prove worth
And arguably that is why art has any value in the first place. Isn't it subjective?
No, a comment that I hear more and more in modern video essays is the statement art is subjective
So I wonder if he's gonna go and explain the thoughts that I would respond to so many of those interesting takes
Oh, yeah
but that's uh
I'll wait I'll wait and hold off to hear what he says because
Just hearing so much of that crap before just kind of you know makes my leg
Jerk
I wouldn't recommend listening to quinn's reviews. It does hit I won't uh, just like
Okay
We'll hear what he says
This statement is usually used as a counter to the idea that film criticism is based on objective references and that a film can be
Quantified objectively for quality people who support the idea that artists objective claim that people who support objective criticism harm art by limiting
The discussion I would support the opposite
The concept that art is entirely subjective and uses no objective standards is a concept
Which is immensely harmful to both artists and art critics whether it is writing directing
Sculpting painting or creating a video essay every form of art uses standards and can be qualified objectively
The first thing that must be established is that objective does not necessarily mean factual
So he said something that I hope he elaborates on a bit more
Um when he says that trying to claim all art is objective is actually harmful to art because that's a good statement
But I think it deserves to be explained. Why?
Yeah, um
And i'm like you watch this video. Does he go on to explain why i'll be honest with you
I can't remember everything that happens in this video, but i'm gonna guess I think he does
Okay. Okay
Then I will it simply means that your reference used for assessing a film was based solely on what is in the text of the film
Whether it's a merit or a flaw you make an observation based on a reference and form a logical conclusion based on that reference
Take the fight on titan from infinity war for instance
Most people who see this fight scene will enjoy it thoroughly
It brilliantly uses cgi in a convincing way and manages to balance a large number of protagonists fighting one incredibly powerful antagonist
There are several objective merits you can point to such as character progression through action
Choreography direction and more these objective references can be used to make a conclusion on the film's overall quality
And these references can also have an influence on your subjective take on the film
But an objective flaw in this fight scene is that thanos does not use the reality stone to
Incapacitate all the avengers so that he can easily take the time stone
There are arguments as to why thanos wasn't able to overpower the avengers when he had all of the stones
The key reference which could be used to explain this is that thanos had just murdered his daughter gamora and in a slight way
Has become softened by this thus he wishes to go out of his way to avoid killing anyone until he can use the completed infinity gauntlet
Based on his fighting style in previous scenes versus his fighting style as soon as he arrives on titan
This does seem to be the case on both titan and wakanda
Thanos has the power stone which has the ability to decimate every member of the avengers and the guardians of the galaxy
But thanos always uses the stone to incapacitate rather than kill the avengers
The only members of the avengers that thanos actively attempts to kill are vision who had a stone
He needed and tony stark since tony fought thanos one-on-one and refused to get out of his way between him and dr
Strange but if thanos wanted the most efficient way to incapacitate the avengers without killing them
He could have used the reality stone just like he used it on nowhere
The reality stone is shown in the film to have the ability to transform people into blocks of stone and strips of spaghetti
This is an incredibly powerful and useful resource, which thanos inexplicably overlooks
Instead uses it to convert the rubble tony crashes onto him into demonic birds
I'm just gonna pause for safety because I don't know if live streams are more detectable with copyright, but just being careful, you know
Yeah, just another explanation as to why thanos, you know
Isn't using the reality stone is that he might actually enjoy fighting and toying with people a bit and let them struggle to beat him
Even though he knows he doesn't have a chance. I like
That explanation but it's tough to maintain it when this is his life's goal that he's in front of right now
And i'm like, I don't know if you would leave it up to the fight
He's gonna be that's that's true. Yeah, because it does seem at one point
There's a at that point where ripskull using it when now and he has just highlighted that he does use the reality stone
It's true. It's true. So I think it's not the strongest argument
And briefly changes titan's landscape
Thematically, there is no reason that thanos wouldn't use the reality stone on titan and wakanda on a production standpoint
The reason he doesn't do this is because it would mean that thanos would easily be able to overpower the avengers at the end
Of the film this would make the end both hopeless and uneventful
In spite of this thanos not using the reality stone is an objective flaw which affects the fight sequences with his character late in the film
My assessment of this flaw was not based on my personal opinion. It was based solely on references in the film
This is the difference between a subjective assessment and an objective assessment
There is a difference between someone enjoying a film and someone saying that a film is good
Enjoying a film simply means that you had fun in the theater and overall were not bored or offended by a film
Mixing the idea of objective and subjective takes on films is why many modern video essays can become confusing
I've seen a lot of statements like this in recent video essays
I want to tell you why I love it because I do I think this movie is goddamn incredible
It is easily the best star wars movie since the empire strikes back and today
We're gonna talk about why what patrick williams has just done in this quote is combine the objective and subjective into one
Take he opens saying that he liked the last jedi. This statement is entirely subjective
It only means that he enjoyed the film but in the next sentence
He makes an entirely different statement arguing for quality
It is easily the best star wars movie since the empire strikes back
The title of the best star wars movie is a statement which relates to objective criticism because the word best in this case
Pertains to quality his statement expanded with more words is I personally think the last jedi is incredible
It is the best quality star wars film since empire strikes back
These statements were placed next to each other and because they were said back to back
It makes it seem like they go hand in hand, but they do not relate to each other in any way
Consequentially his video is rather confusing as you constantly need to assess whether his statements relate to his opinion
Oh why is that key reappearing I hate that argument. It's not even
Opinion or objective references in the film
This is why it's always best to clearly separate the objective from the subjective in regards to film criticism
It makes conversations both clear and constructive in spite of the concept of objectivity being rather obvious in regards to its existence
There are still some people who cling to the idea that art is subjective and that there is no way to quantify or prove that something
is poorly made
But all you need to do is take a look at a well-made film and a poorly made film to come to a definitive conclusion
On the existence of objective quality the dark knight and batman v superman dawn of justice are two films
Which many viewers have differing opinion stories most critics and audiences alike agree that the dark knight is a good film
And dawn of justice is a bad film those who subscribe to the idea that film criticism is subjective
will say that this is based entirely on experience and the only reason that this divide and opinion exists is that a lot of
People like the dark knight and a lot of people dislike dawn of justice art success or failure
Is determined on an individual basis purely by the experiences and the biases and the values
Of each observer a certain point of view and this is the part of the argument where I frankly become confused
When you watch a film you have an emotional reaction to what you see on screen
But in order to have an emotional reaction you need to have something to react to
Therefore everything in films comes down to references based on what you see on screen
Those references are inherently objective since they are based on what is provably on screen
Whether you make a subjective or objective assessment
It's all a matter of the information you process when you watch a film
The subjective part comes down to the level that certain elements of a film affect your enjoyment of it
But it doesn't change what is provably in the film
The reason I chose the dark knight and dawn of justice as examples is because the two films have several similarities
They both feature the character of batman feature an antagonist who seeks to spread chaos throughout a city
There are certain political and law enforcement characters who play a significant role in the story and both films are about complex themes of morality
And how far people will go to enforce justice?
However, both films in regards to execution couldn't be more different
If there was a single differing objective element found in both films, which illustrates the difference between them
It would be character motivation the dark knight centralizes around batman who has managed to cripple organized crime in the city of gotham
He has done so through working closely with jim gordon and being strategic with how he attempts to dismantle the mob
His motivation established from the beginning of the film is to maintain order in gotham
This is what drives all three of the main protagonists
The joker on the other hand is motivated to spread chaos throughout gotham
He is someone who claims to be an agent of chaos and simply does things because he enjoys them
Upset the established order and everything becomes chaos
I'm gonna pause because I feel like
I really it sucks that we can't just play this like because you know, it's all in favor of criticism analysis and stuff
It falls directly under fair use, but
Them bots can't tell the difference. Unfortunately
I'm an agent of chaos
The conflict between batman and the joker is driven by the fact that the joker attacks batman's weaknesses
Early in the film bruce states that the batman has no limits
Know your limits master weight batman has
No limits, but later in the film after the joker continues to kill innocent people and spread fear throughout gotham
batman realizes his boundaries and loses someone he cares about the moment of triumph for the
Protagonist comes when the joker fails to force two groups of innocent people to kill each other
Hope wins over fear because the people of gotham proved to the joker that they believe in good dent into his own agent of chaos
You didn't think i'd risk losing the battle for gotham's soul
In a fistfight with you you need an ace in the hole
Mine's harvey leading to a climax where batman chooses to sacrifice his reputation in the site of the civilians of gotham
In order to maintain order in gotham city
The joker and batman are motivated by the same goal but have different approaches to achieving their goal
One wishes to fight for gotham through order and the other wishes to corrupt gotham with chaos
These motivations for both the antagonist and protagonist of the story are both clear and concise batman v superman don of justice
On the other hand has immensely confusing motivations for characters, which are based on contrived information
I just say as well wonderful, uh production values on this video for youtube video. Yeah
It's doing a great job. Everything's nice and clean and clear. The arguments are concise and straight forward
The editing is nice and relevant and uh, even the music he's matching it to the subjects. She's like, oh
I like you just so you know, my kids are home. So you might hear some shadowings in the background. Um
But they shouldn't be too loud yet. I'm still waiting for him to describe why um
stating that all art is
All art is subjective can't be damaging to art because that's an important thing to talk about so i'm waiting for it
But it's not not happened yet. So maybe that's something golden to talk about
In the plans of the villain who succeeds mainly through luck and seemingly predicting the future
Batman is introduced seeing the destruction of metropolis at the end of man of steel
The destruction that he sees suggests that he may be concerned about superman's presence on earth later when the audience is introduced to him
In costume he is fighting against human traffickers crime fighting seems to be his new motivation with superman
Now being an afterthought but later it is revealed that all along
He was attempting to get his hands on kryptonite to kill superman because he doesn't want to take chances
And because the flash told him that superman was evil
I love that. Uh, I just it's just such a like what did you expect bruce way to do with that information?
Lois lade is the key. Okay. Oh, if I kill lois that'll stop superman
Mixed in with batman's motivation is an immensely confusing story regarding superman at the beginning of the film superman rescues
Lois lane from a terrorist group
But due to lex luther's henchman civilians are killed and superman is blamed for their deaths. This leads to heavily bizarre political controversy
Simultaneously superman learns about the criminals who have the brand of the bat who are being killed in prison with only two scenes
Establishing that superman has read about the prisoners and for seemingly no other reason he confronts batman and threatens to kill him
If he continues working as a vigilante next time they shine your light in the sky. Don't go to it. The bat is dead
Bury it consider this mercy
I'm sorry. Have we met before after the bombing in dc where superman is somehow blamed by the public batman prepares to fight superman
Simultaneously lex somehow incorporates batman's independent plans into his plans and kidnaps lois lane and martha kent in order to force superman and batman to fight
These key events in the film are all incredibly contrived and not supported by logical progression
Because this key moments such as the titular fight scene are frustrating to watch since they are based on flimsy motivation for the characters
This is objectively poor writing for the lead characters in a film
What I have just done is make an objective assessment about two separate
Someone could come along and say that they enjoy don of justice just as much as the dark knight
There could be many reasons for this perhaps said person really loves the character of batman
Or perhaps they are an action junkie and simply appreciate car chases and fight scenes
Or perhaps that person enjoys themes of morality and justice regardless of the consistency of the plot
If said person were to claim that they liked both films equally this would be a subjective argument
But if they instead insisted that dawn of justice is as well made of the film as the dark knight
This would be an objective argument and through scrutiny and analysis
You would eventually come to a conclusion that the dark knight is a well-made film and dawn of justice is a poorly made film
When it comes to objectivity and subjectivity the ultimate example that I use is the godfather and the room
If there is no such thing as objectivity, then these two films are on the same playing field
Most people however will realize that there is at least something which differentiates these films from each other
But believe it or not
There are some who are attached the idea of subjectivity to such an immense degree that they unironically believe that the room is not objectively bad
Jack saint made this exact argument in his video on objectivity
What jack uses to reconcile a lack of objectivity in art is by arguing that different audiences use different lenses in order to form an assessment
Therefore if you watch the room with a dramatic lens, you will be immensely disappointed
But if you watch it with a comedic lens, you will enjoy it. The room is not what is what is going on with this video
Look at that
Looks terrible. Yeah lighting issues
definitely
An objectively bad film if we discard authorial intent
It's to the audience to decide what the film really is
Is it a drama that failed tremendously or a comedy that failed tremendously? How do you fail?
There's no way why even bother right
It's like it's just like that. Well that this is the extreme
You know result of such an opinion
And so at least is trying to be consistent because the extreme result is to say that yeah the room good movie because
Subjectivity, you know
Well, it's just precedent things where you're like, well
You can't nothing can fail. You can't that's the thing
failure success
these things are based on criteria and
Nothing can fail if you don't believe if if there's nothing objective about it, then it's not possible for it to fail
Minute ways
These filmmaking qualities the acting the writing the editing either contribute to or contradict a standard you
Individually must set this argument does not prove that the room is not objectively poorly made
It simply means that if you watch a film in a certain way your subjective experience of the film may be affected
This is why many fans of the room tend to watch the film in a theater
It's so that they can enjoy every bit of riffing and spoon throwing which makes the film more enjoyable
But no matter how you choose to view the film it is objective that the room has horrendous character work editing and story structure
For a counter example, let's say the Quentin Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds upset several of its viewers who hated it for featuring Nazis
This would be an objective reference which the viewer would have used to form their subjective assessment
however
Nazis fit naturally into the plot of the film and the fact that there are Nazis in the film is not an objective flaw
As it matches the time period the film is set in the person who disliked the film for having Nazis
And it could choose to watch the film with an anti-nazi lens
Which in this case would entail that every time the viewer sees a Nazi in the film
They pretend that they aren't Nazis
This could make said viewer enjoying Inglourious Basterds more
But this does not have any influence on the quality of the film or change what is provably in the film
No matter how Nazis make you feel and no matter how you choose to view the film
It is provable that Nazis are in the film Inglourious Basterds
The arguments for both objectivity and subjectivity have been going on for quite some time now
No matter what people take away from a film what everyone can agree on is that in order to assess a film
You need to reference elements which are definitively in the film
If you make an assessment of a character a setting a plot a world or a film as a whole
You're going to draw elements from the text and your assessment of the film is dependent on how accurate your references are
This is why objectivity irrefutably exists
If it didn't then you wouldn't need references to make your assessment
You could argue for a scene or a character which wasn't featured in the film
But this isn't how assessments of films work
If you make a statement about a work of art which has an objective reference
It is an objective flaw or merit
But if you make up a detail argue from emotion or ignore details in the text to strengthen your argument
This makes your assessment of the text subjective since it is not based on accurate references
Subjectivity is what makes art art. It's why we have different emotional responses to films books
Did somebody pause
No, I didn't know
Video games and so but while everyone has their own experience
Sorry, I paused it there, but I forgot I was muted. Oh
Oh, no, just sorry. I said it was a very interesting statement that he made then he said
Subjectivity is what makes art art?
And i'm not sure about that. What's what's your view? What makes art? My my issue is, uh, categorically
How did how does one define art?
All right, well rags you generally the um
The one who looks up the definitions. What does what's the definition of art in the good old?
I will look up the definition because I think it is extremely broad
And for one of the most specific definition for art and i'm interested if the official dictionary one conforms to well
the
the
dictionary here
On just the google one that pops up
The expression or application of human creative skill and imagination typically in a visual form such as painting or sculpture
Producing works to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or emotional power
Oh, that's actually very almost exact to how I define it. My definition was a little bit more simplistic where
Uh art I would define art as a form of expression
To uh cause an emotional reaction of some type
usually a positive emotional reaction, but I think I like the official one a bit better where
um a
Separate or in addition to the emotional reaction. What was it?
It was to uh to create something that was pleasing to the eye. Was it uh to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or
primarily for their beauty so
I I think I like that like art is something that is made to be appreciated for their beauty or to cause an emotional reaction
and specifically a
An expression of some type usually visual but not always
See under that objective standard you can actually quantify. I feel art
On levels as to one being more valuable than another and not just on a subjective
I think you can actually almost make it more objective
I'm not too bothered by it myself. I feel the same way about genre discussions
I'm less interested in the broader parts of it more in the in the details
So when someone says like how do you blah blah blah blah blah art?
I'm like, can we be more specific talk about like a craft and then we can get into that instead because uh
What's what is what defines a piece of art doesn't really bother me
Um, this is this is kind of
My view here, right if you can objectively quantify artistic value you can then
Apply it more effectively onto the quality of something to determine if it's good on based on its artistic value
And I think that's really important then because then my position is that there's there's a heart
There's there's a we're dealing with a very large amount of things that can come under that qualification
The staggering yeah, yeah
But but yeah that but that doesn't mean that that's fine. Yeah, a lot of things come under the definition
But individually you can judge those things
Like I said, you can suggest things individually to how well they achieve the artistic standard of what of what art is
And therefore more accurately figure out if it's good art or not based on
um, uh how strong of an emotional reaction it is able it is capable of making and how
Beautiful it is based on specific standards
Would that be like um a poll of how everybody felt about the piece from a zero to a ten?
Not even a poll black like okay. Let's look at some examples like for instance
a painting that is like quite literally
three colored lines
Just vertical colored lines. Okay, and that is considered a work of art and then compare that to the mona lisa
all right, um
One conveys something of far more complex beauty than another and so already it is of a much higher standard
under that
Form of judgment. Okay
Another one is one it's a person and
And people are able to convey emotion in their facial expressions far more than three lines. And so one is also able to convey
Emotionality far better than another
so already
I think you can quite objectively state that the mona lisa is objectively a much superior form of art than the one with the three lines
What if someone said they actually got more emotional resonance from the three lines than the mona lisa?
Well, then I think you will want to try and compare it like yeah, because this is the tricky one
I think you could say fairly confidently that mona lisa is far better at evoking emotion in people than three lines
Um, I think that would be something to say that's quite truthful
But I agree that it's true, but that still doesn't mean it's objective
Hmm could you have substantiate that objectively that would be well here what what essentially if uh,
If ninety nine point nine percent of people
Looked at the two images still said that the mona lisa
You know gave them more emotional, you know feedback essentially. Well
They're still that's still their opinion
But it's an object statistic though once you've recorded. Oh the statistic doesn't really matter
Oh, no statistics are important to determine
Not here not this one not for the sake of determining objectivity
No for the sake of determining artistic value
popularity of a given
You know of an accepted or of an opinion. Sure. Yeah, it's an objective poll of what people's opinions are
Okay, I think it's or what make it yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but so I was gonna say earlier
Um, I think that by saying which is better is kind of or which is of higher quality
Is a little bit too. We need to refine that a little bit more
I think it would be one of those things where you say
The mona lisa it's it's not enough if you want to be objective
It's not enough to say that the mona lisa is a higher quality work of art
You would have to say the mona lisa is a higher quality picture of a person
And the three lines are
going to be a
Objectively those three lines are a a higher quality picture of
three lines
Yeah
Yeah
I think that you could compare them more like on a value, you know thing like for instance one
Quite you could say quite almost
Definitively objectively one requires far more skill to make than the other
I agree. I agree is of more value. Um
And is a more valuable
piece of art
He was subjective though. Yeah, the problem is no no
You can sell like an artistic toilet for a billion dollars. I know I know I know and that's just depressing like some of their prices
are modern which is just garbage is
Unbelievable and I think that's a complete just racket that's being played on that side of things
And so maybe not value
uh when I say
um, uh quality
Quality. Yeah, I would probably call it quality then. Yeah, I I think um
Quality generally when I use it, I think ball is the same way. Uh, correct me if i'm wrong
But quality refers to adherence to a standard. Yeah
The degree to which a standard is achieved would be it's quality
Well pretty much just on the based of technical start just based off. Um
Technical skill to create certain impressive art forms. You can apply
a an objective quality standard on artwork
Yeah, that's why um
But like like the value part comes in it's almost i'd say I would say it's almost universal to the point where
especially in colloquial conversation
Without getting too anal about everything and too pedantic sometimes you have to but normally you don't have to you can say that
Yeah, yeah, the monolice is better than these three lines because of the way that we almost universally assigned value to the skill
It takes to do those things
Yeah, I agree
I was just gonna say if we let this video finish up I can do a couple of um
I'll talk about
It a bit more just I just want to let it finish this
Franking your argument this makes your assessment of the text subjective since it is not based on accurate references
Subjectivity is what makes art art. It's why we have different emotional responses to films books paintings video games
And so but while everyone has their own experiences which affect their enjoyment of art
It does not mean that there are no standards which are used to assess quality
Standards and objective references are what define the quality of art your personal experience is important
But it only applies to you the way you can discuss art with others is by arguing for merit and quality
So when having conversations on art separate the objective from the subjective and have conversations about both
But do not go the safe route to reconcile poor filmmaking or writing by saying that art is entirely subjective
If you had a strong emotional reaction to a film that is excellent for you
Just remember however that art isn't based on experience. It's based on standards and quality
That is what makes art objective on all sides of the argument
There have been those putting forward the idea that you are one way or another consuming media wrong
either those who find there to be no value in evaluating purely objective elements of a text
Or those who ultimately think it's the only thing that matters and all those plot holes people complain about
They don't actually matter a few minutes later. I know it seems impossible to watch movies wrong
But you're watching movies wrong
Who was that? That's patrick williams
These are the people who constantly unironically say the things
That the same group accuses us of saying and that it's bad that we say them when we don't say oh, wow
Yeah, that's very interesting. Our video was made by um, evan monroe
he is uh
currently sitting at
145 subscribers and I think that's a little bit unfair considering uh
The quality of that video and i'm not just referring to the fact that I agree with a lot of his arguments
It's also just all the production elements are very strong
Um, there were objective standards of quality in that video
I would have liked uh, I think I agree with shad
It would have been cool for him to have uh, it wouldn't take too long as well to just explain one of the down
The pitfalls of everything being subjective what can happen if that's the case
Um, there's loads of real world references you can have for that
We we know a few arguments ourselves, but he didn't use one and he doesn't necessarily have to it just would have been neat to have uh
Given a few of those examples, but um
Yeah, well just even towards the end like and he basically did, you know
qualify what he said about when he said, you know art needs to be um
I forget what it was but I question but he went on to say about you know
The quality and objective nature of art is an important element of it
Um, and so he went on to on to say that that was that was good. Um
But as to how uh treating art
in a wholly subjective way damages art that one wasn't fully, uh
You know gone into detail on and just because because and the answer is simply this art can be um judged
On a level or scale of quality according to objective standards
And if you then treat it all as objective the result is going to be far
Much more quantities of art that are much lower in quality because you've actually tried to throw, you know
the standards of quality out the window
and I and I would say that for
For us, of course, but also all the people who you know agree with objectivity and art. Um
Not everything in art can be judged
objectively
Objectivity is not uh, it's not something that you can use to measure everything
It's not a it's not really universal in that sense. There's some things that objectivity simply
Doesn't it doesn't deal with?
Um, there are there are realms of things outside of objectivity
so it isn't a failure of
objective criticism because it can't
uh be used to
judge and analyze things that are
Subjective so don't feel like if you're in a discussion with somebody that you need to use objective measurement in order to
um
To that you have to apply it to something where it's not appropriate. You know, you wouldn't use geology to study, you know
Something in the realm of dendrochronology or something like that
It has its place and has its uses
Don't but basically don't get tricked into applying it into things where it doesn't need to be applied
See I actually tend to believe that
Technically, everything is objective but some are so conscious that it's hard that it's impossible to define
In exact terms like give me out for instance
Like if I could understand a person's personality perfectly in every way, okay
I could create a work of art based on their like like what I know would trigger their emotion a bit more like if um
For instance, if it's a father who loves being father
That would kind of give me a certain sight of you know
An image of a father saving his children would evoke strong emotions with this individual and I could you know
Make a work of art that conforms to very specific objective standards to that individual that would result in him
Having a very strong emotional attachment and like for something
I make even if he couldn't break down exactly why he's having such a strong emotional attachment to it
And it would work really well for people of that mindset wouldn't work universally because everyone's different
But if you could understand everyone individually you could cater things to a multitude of objective standards
It's just impossible to know what all those many different standards are on an individual basis on them, you know macro scale
Well, the issue there is that it would still be his emotional reaction
Which is going to be subjective. Well, no, I actually feel emotional reactions are objective
But we don't necessarily know what they all are because they're so you know
The feeling itself is still it it is objective whether or not it exists or not
That's different than it is still something that is subjective
Well, see I feel there are always causes objective causes for people's emotional reactions
And even if they're hard to understand and we might not know them if we could know them
I think would always find a reason for it
Yeah, there can be a reason for something that's still subjective
You sure?
like
Explain that. Is there a way to?
There is there is a reason that
My favorite color is blue for instance, right? So if someone's favorite color is blue, right? Now, there's a reason for it, right?
Having to do with genetics or anything like that. Sure, but it's still their preference. It's still what they prefer
It isn't based off of
Objective criteria. Well, no, it's objective that it is their favorite color
Yeah, no, but if you could break down the
Everything to the most perfect understanding even on a psychological
Level of the you know, whatever chemicals going on in the brains to cause you to like that color
Those are the objective standards that do exist cause that result
The words of being
so like
How good this particular thing is someone says well, it's amazing because I like birds and there's birds in it
Like that's a totally subjective reason the next person is going to be completely different on that and the next person is going to be
Completely different on that when we say objective, it's like something that doesn't get denied for the next person like a reality
Whether or not there's birds in there. Sure. That's that's that's a thing
But whether or not the birds being there makes it a good thing. What are you basing that on?
Like that that's your personal preference and even if it's to the micro degree, it'll change with every single person
Then that just means that the that just means there are objective reasons for why something is subjective
So everything is objective
I don't think so
To some kind of entity that could detect every single operation in every single way, maybe
That's all that's that's actually kind of how I look at it even to that extremely broad scale
So you would say that everything is objective
There's no subjectivity doesn't exist. No, no, no, I would say everything can be viewed upon in a subjective way
But that never undermines the objective nature of what or why things are or why they they do the things they do
Are you talking in like a methodological naturalist kind of way?
More specific like you like in what instance?
The one that you described about color like there are there are impulses in my brain
Oh, that's the thing. I I don't know what causes someone to like a certain color
Like if it is a chemical thing in the brain or what there could be
So many reasons to cause someone to like a certain color over another certain color
I have no idea what they are
But I do tend to believe that there are specific reasons that cause it
Object well the the there could be a difference between the the reason could be objective, but it can produce
a subjective result
So
When you say subjective results
What do you mean by that is in a result? The only reason that it it's it is our preference
Even if it even even if that comes through in a measurable way
That doesn't mean that it's not at the end of the day still just our subjective
But wouldn't all like
If there are specific reasons to cause it that means if another person has
Conforms to those exact same standards the result wouldn't be that they like a different color
Those standards are whatever causes them to like the color
Okay
They become the standards that cause people to like the color and if you duplicate those standards whatever they are
It's a chemical thing in the brain or whatever in another person
That would achieve the same result and therefore it would be an objective result not a subjective result
No, because subjective is based on or influenced by personal feelings tastes or opinions
That's the definition yeah, but we've read but like
Again, I and I think we're coming down to just maybe what we're defining a bit differently because
Their person's tastes preferences and even opinions in my mind
All ultimately have objective causes even if we don't know what they are and can't define them
If you don't know what they are
Can you be confident in saying that they are objective causes?
I would say I can be confident in it because that is
how we
See generally how nature works overall like um when you know cause and effects something causes something else, okay?
Um, and so I have not been given any reason to not believe that to this point
I'm not saying it could be wrong
But just by general understanding of nature there this is just the way I kind of view
You know the world is that that's why I almost
fall into a viewpoint of
Everything has a reason cause and it's all right. So
So, how could anything be subjective?
Because uh people can have opinions on things that aren't correct so everything can be viewed subjectively
But that doesn't change the objective nature of those things or how they came to be
So people can have subjective opinions
How is the arrival of those subjective opinions different than the arrival on favorite color? Okay, for instance say, um
Someone has an opinion that the moon is made of cheese
That's subjective because the moon is not made of cheese. Okay
But the things that cause them to reach that opinion, okay
Whatever chemical the way they process or anything would be things that you could quantify objectively is my view
So how is that different from the color one?
It's not
But the differences is I'm sorry
The differences is one core objective things or objective stance that cause one result
Is an opinion that's accurate and another cause an opinion that's inaccurate and if it's inaccurate
The machine is not accurate as well, but those are still both subjective
The opinion the opinions are you can still be subjective. It could be inaccurate like in terms of it's true that that's their opinion
But how they got to their opinion is
like if you have
Is this going to be about?
Objectivity coming down to because there are specific reasons
Unlike a biological level why people have these opinions is that what makes them?
Object, I don't know. I'm trying to understand
Just i'll give an attempt at reframing
So like when you when you make a claim that's subjective it's typically going to because it's subject to you
Versus something that is subject to the existence of something outside all the object that we're currently discussing. That's irrelevant of you
Um
Like the so this is just a matter of which specific example we use
Right. All right. So so favorite color is
Subsubject to you or not subjective
Okay, see I would generally say I mean the fact that well just the fact that you say to you is
Subjective well, it's objective that it's the case, but it's still it is a subject
I'm happy to say that but um the choice the the value system that's going to be applied is going to be entirely based on what you
Prefer and I know it's funny me saying this because that's what they say about the whole our our systems for um
Objective but like it just gets thrown out the window when there's plenty of films
We all the things we like that we consider to be objectively failing
And they're failing based on standards that are like intrinsic to storytelling or whatever current craft we're looking at. Um
That's that's I was saying that I enjoyed this so if someone says I
Excuse me. Excuse me. If someone says I enjoy this film then it
Is based then is that subjective because it fits in perfectly with their personal standards for whether or not that film is good or not
Or whether or not they enjoyed it depends on how they qualify I guess if they want to
well, um, if the standard if someone watches a movie regardless of its quality and they say
I like that movie
Then that criteria
Is that they're using is did this film?
You know, did did I enjoy this film?
And if yes, I did then it conforms to the criteria which makes it
Which would be subjective, right? So can anything be subjective if we use that as a measurement?
Wait, can any objective?
Well, no, it was like I'm asking it's objective to their standard that that the standard is simply did they like it or not?
Right and I guess what you're saying is they came out they felt good and they were like therefore I like this film
Right, so it so is this is is the confusion here that we're using
I I think it does come down to the whole it is objectively true that they did
Enjoy it but that enjoyment is subjective though
They're the only ones that can really make that statement, right because we can't they could be lying
They could we don't we don't have the sufficient information to prove that beyond their their word, right?
Yeah, that this is the same thing as the the color thing I use right thing
So yeah, so I just I I guess that was just a matter of rewarding when I was saying I suppose unless there's still confusion
I mean, it's just a very interesting argument. Oh, well, and that's the thing what we're talking about is
People gonna talk about this for centuries after we're gone
I love it because I I believe in objective truth and I love you know objective truth in general and stuff and so like
the moon is a
Satellite orbiting the earth. Okay, that's the that's an objective statement
Okay, and from everything we've been able to observe and you know test them of it. This is true
Not to say well discover something that undermines that
Before you go, let's just they'll squeeze something in there really quick. Um, it actually popped up earlier, but I was distracted by something. Um,
uh
don't uh
the objectivity subjectivity thing
Um, I wouldn't get too hung up on the idea of like absolute truth
Uh, it's it's got its own philosophical issues and it's not even really all that relevant anyway
It's because everything that we accept and believe and can quote and quote prove is all tentative based on information that we have
So you can assess things objectively and still get it wrong. Yeah, you can still make objective assessments. So
always something important to remember so even if you
Are talking about a film for instance
Even if you're talking about a film and you make an objective
qualification
On a scene that happens or something some aspect about the film
And I think it's wiser to talk about individual aspects instead of the thing as a whole
But if you talk about an individual aspect of a film
Um, then you can you can use objectivity to make that assessment and it might it might not be correct
It might not be true in some way, but you can still use objectivity to assess its quality
Um, you just remember that it's always tentative just so we don't get too far away from it
I was just gonna say it's at the top of the description now a link to that video and uh, it's being spammed in chat
by me right now
Go subscribe
And check out i'm not sure if he actually has other videos. That's a question
Um, but it's just uh, it's just cool because like there's barely any videos like that
Wouldn't you describe that video as relatively bold?
Uh, sure. Yeah, a lot of people would have issues with it. A lot of people would be
Really upset at the idea that oh you can't I mean
We say in like a meme way that the room is terrible, but then you actually
Look at it and you assess it and you use reference. Here's the thing. I like that about his video
He says we use references. We take the things that we
Saw we all saw right stuff that we can independently verify exists with one another
You know thing basically using in a very casual form of the scientific method to say, okay
We can all agree that these references exist these scenes exist
and therefore we can all use those as a baseline as our as our sources essentially as a resources in order to
Make measurements and use objective
Or analyze it objectively the use of resources. I think it's good rhetoric
You know, it's it's a good word to use because people
That would get a lot of people to think oh, yes resources
That's something that I use when I write a paper for school or when i'm
Looking up for some piece of information. We use references
We find other things and we use those to you know
To to talk to other people and point to those and say this is where this information comes from
I agree
All right, then, um
Oh and also before we go i'm sorry. Just just because it's on my mind. Um
do not allow people to
Delve things into the realms of philosophical absurdity
So we're talking about hard solipsism and things along that nature. I said it in a meanie way
But the whole how do you know that reason is reasonable?
Is there some things that we have to just?
Take if we're gonna have a discussion and exist together and that's when you get to use philosophical raises to um, get to uh,
Yeah, like the conclusion. Yeah, I got old axioms, right?
Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, so don't if you have to
Devolve into the point of absurdity about something and you can't make any references for it
Then just say, you know
We're just gonna have to pragmatically move past that to have a discussion at all axiom is a cool word
It sounds cool
All right, I find it interesting how the whole subjectivity mod
Mob can try and argue against it because their whole the whole philosophical underpinning kind of logic is flawed because you could only
State, you know
Everything is subjective is an objective statement that you could only try and substantiate improve with objective references
And so it's all flawed from the very beginning and like going to the room, right?
where that guy was saying the room is a good movie I find that really interesting because
Stating it's a good movie is based on an objective standard that it is a good bad movie
Which means you can only have that standard by having a standard that determines
What is a good movie and what is a bad movie from the very beginning?
To then be able to determine that as a good bad movie. And so it's just very
interesting contradictory
yeah, and
Someone in chat asks compare to every movie you've seen or every movie ever made
um, well, I guess it depends on specifics, but
as I said before you could
Objectively analyze things and be wrong as long as you're taking references and using them and you're not relying on feelings and stuff
That's certainly a step in the right direction
and as long as you
Yeah, before we had a lot in science
It was a pretty objective observation that the earth was flat because just by general observation
That's the first conclusion most people come to it's just when you test things further you realize oh
Okay, it's not flat
But yeah, depending on the standards you have to begin with and the information available. Yeah, you can absolutely reach incorrect
conclusions by following an objective, you know
way of thinking
Just you don't just all of your find all of your findings are
But you use objectivity to get closer and closer to the truth
Sometimes you can nail it down basically
Try as much as you possibly can especially when you have a very set especially with films
You have a set amount of resources to pull from and there's just there's it doesn't go on forever
There's a very finite amount of stuff to pull from so a lot of times you could really bang it, you know
Uh, which there we go pretty much pushes me into the whole like should we begin?
the super chats which are um
There's a few
Uh, because there's a whole bunch from last time that we didn't quite get to
and then this I got you but I
I do need to finish this up before it it gets too late. Give me about 10 minutes
No, no, yeah, go for it. I'll I'll keep any of the referred directly to you
All right, I got you, uh, I will be uh right back very well, um shad, what would you like to do now?
You're obviously sticking around for now
and I
Want to do some of the super chats? Well, so this is the thing the one i'm going to read them
They're essentially in order and so
These are the ones from last time. Um, but obviously you're welcome to jump in whenever you want and uh
It'll take me a while to get through these but you're welcome to leave whatever you want
But any of the ones that are directed at you I will keep like, uh, we had the bunch at the beginning of the stream
awesome
I'm gonna start with the stream labs once if I can just get the right date
All right, this is a whole bunch I've got so many to read best get started
Anos I solved 50 of crime. What did it cost only 13? I get it
Very clever using marvel references now, huh? Mueller have you seen chef? I have no idea what that is
Chef with two f's does sound familiar at all?
I don't know it
Sounds like a netflix special I mean, yeah, it could be
So episode nine twist a dark figure appears from the ether and defeats palpatine with such ease that it
Demoralizes ray and crew due to the unspeakable power of the shrouded and mysterious individual
The being looks upon ray its long eye stalks extended far beyond the realm of shadow blinking one
Yellow slitted eye at a time the creature from the gloom speaks in a voice not of this world one
So shrill and deafening it causes our valiant heroes to fall to their knees in anguish
Usa gonna have a bad time usa gonna bow to misa
Ray fighting to cling to his sanity cries out at her foe who what are you?
The creature begins to emit a tittery laugh misa the true dark lord misa have many names
But you may call me
A long pause fills the entirety of the room
Every second that passes fills our crew with so much despair
That their very sanity begins to teeter on the knife's edge
It feels as if the universe itself has come to sudden to a sudden halt
But as suddenly as the creature came it then vanishes as the robed figure steps from the shadows
Arms wide with a wicked yellow toothy filled grin painted from ear to floppy droopy ear
misa da darth insanias insadius
I guess end credit. All right
I mean I I'd go for that at this point considering the leaks episode dies because it's gonna be a disaster. So
Oh, yeah, I've been watching, um, uh the efap where you go through the uh, a leaked plot
I like spoilers just because I want to comment on one of things
If the if the force ghosts appear towards the end to fight for them
Oh, i'll just lose like I'll be enraged. I won't be laughing i'll be like
This is where it's come to like, holy crap
If I could you get anything that is more deus ex machina than that like a literal god ghost thing appearing out of nowhere to save the
heroes like
Who needs ryan stan does this all subjective?
Uh
Um, anyway
Post credit scene darth insanias goes bla-la-la with his tongue and vors ray. Oh my goodness
Horrifying. What would lord the rings be like if you just replaced gandalf with hitler same powers and everything just now you have hitler
I'd like to think you just go around calling sauron and saruman untermensch
I mean I would watch the potential version
Pretty sure if he was in that world
He would be a very different character because of different upbringing and different different environmental effects, you know, that's how it would work
Maybe he would really like hobbits and hate elves or vice versa
Yeah, yeah, I was gonna say probably he hates hobbits, but you know, he didn't like the abnormal people. I don't know what he was saying
Um
Jay longbow needs to be decolonized when she's using the n-word
She's literally denying the humanity of her black allies and she's committing imperialism against the black experience on behalf of the white patriarchy of objective media criticism
I'm sure she would agree
Hello all my j long bone words. Love you wolf wags. You're a waskily wagger muffin
I'm sure you'd be happy to hear that good luck dealing with the motion picture roberts and let the lengthening continue
Why thank you plays kylos theme kylo gets launched off a platform and falls to his death plays wrath
Yeah, do you know about that kylos? Um, oh, yeah, that kylo just gets dumped down a hole in
All right then yeah
All that surviving he did
In the end of force awakens and the the lightsaber explosion and tlj. Why will that just be thrown down a hole?
There were so many missed opportunities like it's unbelievable kylo could have been a fairly interesting villain
I mean
Ah, it's just and yeah, there's a it's all a mess
This is for jamie
Hey, can you drop this better hurry? The theater is 50 meters away and you only have one
One three minutes until jo wait, so this is a message for a friend of yours called jamie
Or is this a reference to something that i'm missing better hurry the theater's 50 minutes away and you only have one
13 minutes until joker starts
Was I the stream for that super chat or was that no, no, that was the previous stream, okay
I can't remember his school years clearly an alien push the button vader or voodoo. Yes. That's a
another strong reference
um
Any chance anna could join you guys for the batwoman finale if have reactions and her reviews are my favorite part of the week
uh
We've had a lot of requests to have jay long going on for like the finale or whatever the thing with um
The format as it stands is it's really hard to um
Edit with clarity when you have four people live reacting to a tv show
Um, because you'll have certain scenes
Where two people at once want to complain about two different things at once and then while the scene continues
There's more problems that someone else notices while the two people are fighting over to speak
And so you end up that's why we've been pausing more lately
I think is because we're starting to realize that and just if you add another person
All it really means probably is that someone else is just going to have to talk as much and um
So let's say it's a maybe and um, I mean her reviews are fantastic. She's not like she needs to be on efab
I've watched a couple of jay long bones reactions to um
to bat batwoman and
Oh, yes. Yep. Yeah, she's pretty good
um
Also rag has been getting that monthly thrust for a while now. He's not gotten a single monthly thrust
Not got a single one
Hopefully tonal will provide it once he's back on his patreon, I guess. I don't know when that may be
Obligatory you guys are still going
Seriously, though appreciate you so much. May your lengthen evermore. May you lengthen evermore? There you go
um
The frequency of these faps has left me scarred and deformed
Well, uh, there's only one extra one this this recently it feels like there's a lot of ones though
Lesson southpaw recently gave jeremy from geeks and gamers some fair criticism on reddit and youtube
But he forgot a you forgot about the worst offense, which is the fumes of toxic toxic masculinity
Wow, I can't speak today masculinity emitting from jeremy and his heteronormative car videos. Um, they actually had a discussion
Uh a few hours before this efab started
On southpaw's channel, you can check it out if you're interested
Um sincere thoughts on the detriment to the plot of the eagles in lord of the rings movies has elrond and gandalf used some throwaway line
While discussing their options for destroying the ring. That'd been great. Nazgul isn't a good enough answer
Uh, that was actually my stance with wolf when we first discussed it. I think in one of the early refabs
I just said that I think it would have been much stronger to just have a line
There's a lot of inference you need to do
um
Which isn't necessarily bad
It's just that um, there's to a degree
I think it's a risk is what we establish and we have to assume that the characters think it's too much of a risk
And i'm like, I don't know
I don't know
Maybe it'll be worth it get a huge crowd of eagles have them important one in the center
Just freaking go for it bolts right to the volcano
Or if they like did the flight in small little steps
Like they fly to one mountain top and just you know, anyone see me where I think they're safe fly to the next mountain top
They might have been able to get there and that's why if we could have like, um a character
Explicitly be like it's way too risky to do something like that. I'd be like, okay
Just just to reaffirm that that is definitely they're aware of it and they're very much against it
You know as risky as going through the mines of moria
As risky as setting sab and Frodo up a staircase into she loves layered through kirithog gulls like
Risky risky, um
It is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of the movie sahara
2005 starring matthew mcconaughey, the plot seems very tight to me. I've seen that film but i haven't seen it in ages
Same, I can't remember anything about it. But they don't they'd like to old ship into
I don't know sailing on sand or something. Am I getting things really nice? Maybe
Meet a long time
um
But my cream has never been stronger. These are all these all these palpatine references not against it howdy mauler and high raggers
Maybe we should peta maybe we should petally avenge literally by deciding to use figuratively instead
Hey, we can't save one. Why not kill both?
I was to start using figuratively when we mean literally just to screw everything up
We could do it. Let's kill the dictionary guys
Um, I found out through the uk government memorial program last year that two men with my exact name and two other men with my father's exact name
Were all killed in welsh guard units during world war one
And four with grandads
Also, since i'm welsh and I didn't know oh
Welcome to the tribe
I've just learned about a black debate professor in utah who argued to a stunned white student that space
And paris france don't exist because he hasn't been there
And went on to say that black astronauts can't be trusted. Fuck this gay earth. Um
Okay, interesting takes from that guy he's a professor
Wow, okay
Um
Response far from home and homecoming. I think the vulture was a much more believable villain the mysterious
What was the latter's plan if after he succeeded an avenger's level threat then showed up does he just not consider that
Well, he can still um do some damage
Like he's not that far away from like the first iron man suit in that he has access to missiles bullets
Sound waves shock waves and illusions can actually do some damage to enemies in terms of tricking them
Um, so I think he's he's still got a pretty impressive arsenal whether or not he's uh able to do the things
We seem to see him do if that makes sense
But you know like if you think about it, um black widow is you know considered good enough to be an avenger so
He can still do some stuff, but he's not it's not gonna look as it'll be weird
I don't know how it would be difficult to account for it because you'd be like
Why aren't you doing your blasts of green smoke at them? Why aren't they doing that much?
And if you were the creature he's doing it to
You'd be able to see inside of it and be like, what is all this shit?
There's a bunch of droids or whatever like this is weird. So yeah, there's a lot of variables, but um, he could still do some damage
And um, i'm back that is hello taken care of
Haven't had one that is specifically directed yet. See you all right
All right. Hey finally managed to catch you live. Have you ever heard or played the star wars old republic game?
I it's an mmo the last thing that is not infected with the new canon. It's eight different class stories
And first two expansions are completely free i've not played it
I didn't get very far in it
I passed the tutorials on several classes and then got to like the second or third planet
Before I started to get mmo fatigue because of but it was the in terms of the story
In many of the quests that was actually pretty cool. I heard I had good stories. Yeah
Oh, yeah, someone called you waskelly wags, I shouldn't forget that. Oh
Okay, uh now we're on superchats from
Uh last stream. I just did all the streamlabs ones now we're on to these ones. Uh,
Hello all my is that the star wars one where you broke down the star wars plot?
No, that's the joker one that isn't released yet. It will be where we covered movie bob and uh,
nando versus movies
Okay
Hello all my jeb wibs where the jeb wids I wouldn't wish a movie blob video on my worst enemy also. Hi rags
Hello
Strong cast for this fat boy's jeb approves
Yes, he would
Yeah, it was a good one
Uh my subjective opinion but covering movie bob's bad takes is the only things
Is the only things efap one of my favorite podcasts becomes more boring than when they do efap debate episodes
It is more this choice to cover stuff, but damn
Uh, actually, uh movie bob is heavily requested
Uh, whenever he puts a video out I get several links people like oh my god, have you already said this one?
Um, he's one of the ones that have been more vocally against joker. So it just seemed to be suitable
And um, I think we got a decent
chunk of of of efap out of it like I I dare I say
entertainment versus
Informative informative, you know
Yeah, um, but no it is tough dealing with movie bob and that's fair
Um, and obviously if you don't like it when there's debates or movie book coverage, I you know, that's totally
On you it's up to you. Yeah
Um, I agree he's retarded but not funny retired
I see that must be about movie bob
Welcome back wolf missed you smiley face
Wolf would say thank you
He would um, this is scoby jew instead of scooby jew and the and frank chronicles
I mean, oh my I don't know. They did that scooby-doo episode, but they maybe
Uh, this is a bad time to join the stream poor bibs
What did we do to some birds?
What did anyone do to some birds?
Birds, yeah, this is gonna be tough because we're delving really far back into lots of conversation
Uh, looking forward to watching this efap when I catch up i'm about 30 episodes behind good to see maula wolf and rags all here
Well, joe somebody you'll be curious to see when you finally listen to be saying this
If you do, um
You all just left me that i've been in a serious relationship for a while
So i'm stuck here alone angry and feeling like my heart has been ripped out and crushed
All that and I still have to listen to fucking movie bob. Thanks emasives or cheers you masses
Do not worry
Um
This is not the best thing to have to listen to movie bob after
An experience like that, but I mean he was defeated. He only killed mostly everybody. It's fine
um
But yeah, you know, sorry to hear it and uh, hopefully you got some some uplifting entertainment out of it to a degree
Uh, did bob just blame shooters on single mums? Oh, no
Oh, no, yeah, that was a weird part of his video like
The highlighting that this the the mother was the cause of all the problems that he's like wah wah, it's like dude
Uh, what's this a midweek efap truly you spoil us also go watch jojo rabbit i'm not gonna stop mentioning it until you do
I mean I want to see it i'm not against it. I would like to see it. Yeah
Hmm
Uh maula no, not another efap. My wallet can only support so many super chats. How will I eat?
How will I pay rent? Clearly? This is your fault. I am so sorry
Just you know look after yourself make sure
You'll be fine. Um, what's the best version of scooby-doo in your opinion? My favorite is the pup named scooby
I don't really have the best. Yeah. I mean I just watched the tv show when I was younger and I liked it a lot
Oh, yeah, I I hated a pup named scooby-doo
I don't think I saw that. I didn't like any of the scooby-doo's. I always felt scooby-doo annoying
Yeah, they're fine. I like scooby-doo on zombie island
Yes, the witches ghost I like some of the movies they're pretty good. Yeah. Well, I mean I remember like in the show that the movie
sort of evolved from
Um, but like I didn't care that much for the um, the live action movies. I was like, oh
nah
They were goofy, um
The super chat simply says I nutted wonderful
You know bob stein better cease this tomfoolery immediately. Otherwise i'ma turn his pen is into a pen was
or
That's a terrifying threat right there. Um
Lundmauler has a kiwi farms thread most of them are supportive but actually have good critiques of your style i'd suggest a readthrough
What is kiwi farms exactly i've never heard of that
Some forum on the internet
In that forum. All right
um
Fair enough movie blob can fuck himself because no one else will
We had a lot of vitriol for movie bob clearly
Yeah, he's a
Spiteful nasty person. It's hard to listen to his video. Honestly, bob is just projecting probably killed his bub. Oh my goodness
Oh my goodness
Go anna go tear his ass apart. Oh, she did. She definitely should some perspectives saved for jay long ago. Um
Movie bob has this thing. It's just it's bizarre. Not many people like his stuff when they they're told to comment on it or at least invite it to
Um, I don't know what that's that's about, you know, it's weird
You should check them out. It's an interesting pattern
Well, the only uh thing i've ever been able to watch from movie bob is stuff that you review on efap
and
I don't agree with many of his takes and he speaks so fast like
Makes him smarter
Yeah, like I I don't know him personally might be a nice guy to get along with but his video content
Yeah, just from what i've been able to see uh, you know
And it's only a little amount
But it seems like he speaks fast and then he tries to fill up what he's saying with a lot of fluff
And not much substance and then when it does say something
Um substantive it's generally incorrect. So
That's all I know. Yeah, no, he's very unimpressive and um
Downright one of the forest content creators there is in terms of just like analysis content. But hey
Oh, yeah. Patrick Willems said he was great, right? Or he said he was a he was the only traditional reviewer
Oh
I'm not sure what that means. But hey, that's that's true. That's the case
That's a quite the condemnation of traditional reviewers. Yeah. I know. I don't know what they did to patrick, but okay
Um
Wolf do not look up bayowin's deviant art
All right wolf don't do that
According to the super chat don't do it
What's the meaning or law behind you massive?
You can actually this is a good segue for a little plug you go to the efap.me website
it actually has
Where is it origins as a tab you click that?
Then via the alphabetical ordering you can go to m for massive
And then you can look at the origin of massive. It even has
A link to the conversation. I think that that originates it and the episode obviously
No, um
Not bad
Pretty pretty neat is the thing so I recommend you go do that and uh, it's it's just in the link in the description
It's a very nice and clean way for it to be
delivered
Um, even if movie blob were to be roofed, he would only bounce we need something more powerful to end him
We need to force him to walk upstairs
I don't know you could do that. So he dies of suffocation or something. I think that's the idea. He just can't possibly oxygenate his body fast enough
The problem is getting him to go up the stairs. How do we do that?
Also put some
Diabeto float
Diabeto
Hmm, I don't know
I mean by command of the sugar around him he could sort of do like magneto does
It's not so much the superpower probably as much as he's just a big fat guy
Oh, I mean
He's diabeto regs
Yeah, but can you command sugar at your will you ain't you no, no, no, no, you know
No, you aren't a fat guy. No, no, no i'm getting there. I'm working towards it max
Right. What are you trying to like? Don't take it away from him. He's trying to earn this
I can't take it away from him if you never had it
True
Uh the joker a misogynist serial killer whose victims are a whopping 8.3 women
Yeah, well that's the conclusion someone coming too. Oh and hi regs
Hey
Hello
I've only interacted with the film furor once he told me disney didn't kill off luke or han because you can still buy luke and han
merch and the ot
Yeah, that's how that works
Yeah. All right. Okay
Um lest I forget to thank the memers from last efap
I really I did appreciate the squid billy drawing showing me stuffing the guy into a funko bop
Funko pop box, like I said in superchats
Loved the egyptian ra with the armband. Oh ras like in the art guys. Good stuff
Oh
I think the armband that I had it did seem kind of like it was like it
I was thinking it was like an eagle or something
So I don't know. I just didn't know for certain
Oh, yeah, he's talking about um a picture for himself like one of the raw ones because this is obviously from the previous. Uh,
Oh, right. Right. Right. Right. Why are so many people struggling with the simple and downright basic messages and ideas from this film?
Why is it so hard to grasp for them?
Because it's not complicated enough. You gotta gotta be more complex than that
I don't even sure what i'm actually advocating for at that point in terms of having them understand it. I think it's too
Maybe they just don't like the idea of advocating to be
Kind to your fellow man. I don't know. It's like it's gotta be more nuanced. Um
But I mean it's still fascinating. Maybe they don't want to say there's nothing more to it. Maybe maybe they're
I don't know. I I don't even think I could say it's just like another state of mind. I'm just not familiar with
Yeah, you brave souls. I'm so sorry. I had to suffer through any of bob's videos
Yeah, we've done. Is it three or four now? I think it's three
Three one of those three. Yeah
One in the 50th one when we first covered him and one recently
It's not like that
Um, despite representing just 13 of creators on the escapist movie blob represents 50 of all body mass
Oh, that's that's it
Not bad
No
Uh rags, where's your modern warfare 3 and gears of war 5 review? I checked exclusively games, but they weren't there
Hmm not sure i'll give a i'll give a note to him
See how uh, see what's going on
Also wolf you sound stressed halo for in the prequels and nickelback will help with that. Also. Hi maula. Hello
I was saying hi. My editor oz just messaged me to say hi rags. He says hi. Oh, hello
Okay, you're right. You're you're who my editor is a good mate
Your editor. Oh, is he like there with you?
Uh, no, just he messaged me over steam, but uh, I got you. I got you
We've actually launched a kernan exile server that we run jointly together. So
It's not any good
Oh, yeah. Well, I like yeah might not be for everyone, but yeah, I think it's great
Why are you attacking him rags?
Oh, I mean I like
Stop it if you think raw throws me why I have my opinions gosh
And he's a bad you're evil if you think raw throws movie bob into the pit of broccoli
He'll have to eat his way out and come out normal
Oh is that he's asking if you think if that would happen, um
Wouldn't it just die instead of eating his way out? I don't know
Besides well, maybe his will to maybe his will to eat
Would be stronger than his will to eat, you know certain things in particular, you know
Like if he absolutely had to eat healthy, maybe he he would if you
Took away all the choice
Yeah, I mean it's a survival thing. I don't know
I mean, do you not destroy the fat man if you make him not fat?
I guess so
So it's quite the philosophical debate you're suggesting there
Because everything up to this point has been sort of like surface level but that
That's what that's what it'll be we'll have a whole leaf half of that i'm thinking, um
I used to like nando. I don't know his videos get got boring and repetitive for me. Also. He's good friends at patrick williams
Well, you know friendship is fine. I just um
I haven't seen much of nando versus movies. Uh jay said he was very good
So everyone can kick jay. I suppose
Go for it
He kicked himself today
He did
Uh cyanide is important for movie bob video watching
I mean
I suppose it's subjective as well. Yeah the combo a nice cocktail
Uh jay you lied to us kick him kick him now do it
Oh, he's he's he's already gone. So yeah, there we go. Stupid chat has been fulfilled
Anna you're awesome. Also hashtag I stand with vic
Um, I don't know if there's any developments on that whole situation, but I assume has calmed down now
Um, I guess but I don't know myself. Yeah, I don't know
Uh, hi loves advice to apply movie clips into videos
Um as best you can we're relevant maintaining
Aspect ratio keep the resolution at least like
1080p if you can
Obviously high quality footage if you can get it
um
generally
The expression of the character that you're showing is really good because expressions even if they're quick
You could just boom you can understand it
So if you can find if you're doing something because i'm doing this with the vat woman thing i'm doing now
uh
in a number of places
But if you can find someone on the footage who's using an expression that you kind of want to convey with what you're saying
That's probably the way you want to go
And if you keep it short like under five seconds, you generally never get pinged for, you know, copyright or anything like that
And there are certain companies that are much more lenient with the length of clips than others as well
so
Want brothers and lionsgate are generally really bad and they'll try and claim anything
But netflix and uh, if I forget a couple of other ones are pretty good. Yeah
Um, yeah, because I was gonna say I used to advocate anything under 10 seconds, but these days
Keep it under six if you want a guarantee of never being clipped
By the bot that's how insane it's getting um, or at least it is with certain companies
um, but yeah, hopefully, uh
You know, you can sort of find your own
Voice with it. Just be careful about the bots
Um unacceptable tlj is trash
I agree
major yeah
Fuck these massives. Can we have more tonaled?
We should have some more tonaled soon. I think well
We tonaled's gonna have to give us more tonaled. Well, he's got a big backlog. We'll find something i'm sure of it
I do want it. I like new tonaled like fresh tonaled, but you know, you need to do
Oh, let me check patreon and see if he responded to my message. Oh, yeah
Um
Arthur is part id and justification. He says he feared that he would feel remorse
But after killing he felt liberated instead
The bad day broke that barrier to transform him
I think that's fair
um
The scent of stale cigarettes and moldy brie assaults your nostrils like a flabby fist as movie bob waddles out of the darkness
Oh man, I could almost smell that description. I was gonna say yeah, that was
Almost yeah, that was pretty uh, that was pretty good
um
I went to college with nando. He was really wow
He was super stoked to tell everyone at a party how incredible pacific rim was when it came out loll. He's a good guy
I'm sure he is
That's what this one you'll typically find with a lot of these cases is the the nice friendly people who just want to address their ideas
Not every case though
Uh, laugh my ass off imagine being the kind of
kajuk
You're supposed to be cuck
Uh that talks about pacific rim at a party loll can't relate loser
I think plenty of people talk about movies at parties. Right? It's fine
Yeah, could be uh could be a gal. Yeah
What if what if the party doesn't like me talking about movies anymore?
What if it's a room too many party to watch a film what about that?
Oh
I mean you're at a party. So you're being social. That's the first step
Kono suba the movie was the best movie of 2019
Don't actually know. Oh, yeah, i'm unfamiliar with that
Uh jay get on the discord and apologize for your sins
You got some splaining to do jay we should have asked him about that
What does he think about nando and if if it's that he's made a lot of really good videos and he's just a bit tismy
I'm joker. I guess
Maybe maybe we should watch more of a case
Uh rags dealt with this view criticism problem in his far cry for video
View criticism problem
View criticism
I don't know what he's talking about
View yeah, I I don't quite know what he's referring to by this view criticism
View criticism problem. Yeah, i'm not 100 on that one
Yeah, i'm not sure what you mean by that
Um
Mola have you questioned the ethics of exposing your friends to all of this unironically at what point is it literally torture?
Also sans is in smash
Good and uh, they're free to leave whenever they wish that is my logic
Whatever torture they end up engaging with it's their fault
Can we just get one critic that has an actual point i'm sick and tired of people making up shiz like wow
Watch the freaking movie
Well, I mean more there is a pretty good critic that brings up points
Well, I think they mean cover someone because like, you know, you're pretty good too shot, but we're not covering you or I
We're uh, and you know rags doesn't make movie reviews because he's a flim flam
You look at that silence he didn't deny it
I don't I don't I don't make movie reviews
I'll make an episode review. I got an episode review going through that. That'll be long as shit
Um
Then i'm gonna stick to shorter stuff just get them done
Yeah, we did cover uh for the first time today. We pretty much watched a movie a movie a video in full
And recommended them like we did it with ruby ruby
Robot head ruby bob I was about to say like what is that?
a ruby bob
ruby rose bob
Ruby rob
But yeah, you know, uh evan munro made some points
There you go. Yes, he did
Uh, if if I had a grope groiper
Blackop squad a and a deep state intel agency at my disposal i'd use joker as a litmus test to help find and execute bug men everywhere
Bug men, huh?
There's a lot of words there that I just don't know what the meanings are. No, I think they're to avoid. Uh,
the the super chat restrictions
But all right
Um nando vis's movies has broken efap. Holy mother of the dawn
We've been broken several times. We usually recover though. We just need some time, you know battery charge
You know, um, I guess that last super chat was talking about joker
You know how you know, there's the whole thing where joker's gonna cause violence stuff like that. There was a freaking like
machete fight
uh
in the uk
at uh at a frozen 2 screening, so
It's just just just so that we know
Yeah, it's everyone's aware frozen 2
Is a more violent is a more violent film
than joker is jenny had to go into a drive-in like
What are you saying you're trying to deny her experiences?
Frozen 2 is officially more dangerous than joker now and we have the facts to prove it
I like by the way that if that incident had happened with joker imagine the coverage
All that would be everywhere
Um, yeah, oh absolutely absolutely
Okay, mola one upping cinema roberto with anando is a strong move the efap crew versus the tlj clique all out war is brewing
Also, hi rags wolf and guests
Hey that can apply to you now shed. Hi
It can hi
Uh marie condo looking at the original trilogy this one sparks joy marie condo looking at the sequel trilogy
This one does not spark joy
I don't know who marie condo is
But yes condo
Yeah, I don't know
Uh kids wouldn't do this central park five
I mean there's loads of examples of kids
Doing kid things that can be interpreted as ass. Holy
Oh, yeah, absolutely kids can be really cruel to one another
Uh kids, I don't think especially if kid hasn't like fully developed a sense of you know, like
empathy yet
for other people and
Not all kids develop the same same rate in the same way
Kids are just outright cruel. I blame the parents
cool
kids on evil
Kids with times I was gonna say contextual kids on evil kids with low time slash preference are evil
It's with low um or time preference in general
Uh, I don't know. I don't know if uh
I don't know if it's uh
I don't know if a kid can't be evil
We'd have to define evil
I mean assuming you're doing a a very in excessively malicious thing for
the purposes of creating
Evil or knowing something like that, you know what we would consider evil like I mean a child could be
Mentally like taking joy and excessive informed malice
uh, that that would be one example probably evil's many things I think we could agree but
um
Yeah, I say it's possible. It's possible
I wouldn't put it past him sneaky bastards
Um, I work as a psychologist in a low social economic status town
And I will say the depiction of mental illness and joker in a town like gotham is very much on point
These you put these youtubers are a joke. Here's money for aspirin
Thank you
Rags tell us a 40k bedtime story money
40k bedtime story
um
once there was uh
once there was a
Lonely guardsman and he believes in the emperor and therefore everything worked out. Well
That's all you need you didn't say happily ever after
No, no one no there's there there's not many happily ever afters and but you said everything worked out. Well, that was like the same
Oh well for
Yeah, oh well for
like in a
Social sense
Like not for him as an individual, but you know, he helped the team. Okay. All right. I'm following. Yeah, also high rags
Hello
Hi rags. Did you get the sword yet? And what do you plan on doing with it?
Um
Gonna be around february ish that I get the sword finally done and
Sent my way
Uh, it'll be it will be mostly decorative
But it will also be it'll be decorative
but the fact that it exists there and I know that it's
Sharp and deadly in that I possess it, you know, it provides some kind of emotional satisfaction
much needed
Yeah
Most audience come sharp unless they're specifically the training type and so yeah
That was one of the things that I emailed them beforehand. I was like these are sharp, right?
They're like, yep
You want to you're gonna test it on anything before you put it on as decorative? You're gonna chop a piece of meat in half
I i'm certain I will find some way to use it. You do know how to um, keep it like maintained don't you?
Um, I it'll rust it's a high. It's not stainless steel these ones because they're high carbon spring. I know I have I
I haven't looked into it yet because you know, it's gonna be a while to get here anyway
But I have stuff like like I have firearms that I maintain. I assume the principle is pretty much the same
Well, it's pretty easy
You just need to keep the blade oiled so it won't rust and mineral oil is the best and you can find that in like
Baby oil is all mineral is like 100% mineral oil and so oiled and stored in a cool dry place and all that stuff
Yep, yeah, you're all good, right? It's uh, yeah, I got i've got uh
Cleaning oil and stuff of that nature for guns. So i'll i'll i'll buy something that you know, i'll buy something that's for it
And you're gonna become a superhero if you wanted to protect the local citizens from evil doers with the sword
Oh, yeah, absolutely. Someone said kill a snake. He's like well, you got snakes here in arkansas, right? Be pretty nasty
Oh, yeah, a lot of water snake types water moccasins and cotton mouths and all that
Um
Yeah, he said what do you plan on doing with it deco test cutting hammer question mark
It's just decorative. It'll just be decorative there and for personal satisfaction really
Just knowing that I have it is uh
Is a kind of value
Um, hello efap you get everyone should own a sword. Yes
Hello efap. You get one million dollars, but you have to watch star wars episode nine with movies bob. Would you do it?
Yes
Say that one more time experience you get one million dollars if you watch episode nine with movie bob
of course
I mean there's a good chance. I might entertain that in general
And maybe keep an eye on him just to be like, how does he react to films when he watches them?
Does he like is he like that? Uh, eric butts guy at any point or is he just like
neutral I wonder
Hmm would be interesting
I don't know. I can see it both ways
First super chat just to say anna is cute when she's angry make her angry more and high rags molar and wolf
Especially rags. Hello sexy doggo. Oh
So hey, just how angry did anna get in that string?
frustrated yeah, she definitely got frustrated
And she got frustrated when we went to the second video and we got a lot of information from both videos to imply that
like they hadn't
remembered the film right
Um, the second video was like everybody in the world is reprehensible. There's like no good people and it was like
But there's like a scene. Oh, did he say that? Yeah fucking hell really? Yeah, we were like, there's a whole scene
That guy i'm a good guy, but okay i'm good
No, no, no in the film
Oh in the film not the midget. That's what I mean. There's a whole scene where that's
Contingent upon what happens in the scene? Okay
Uh, love joker love joker content hate excessive memory memory
Sophomoric twaddle of efap molar high iq analysis star wars gill is tight too. Thank you, sir
All right. Thank you. Very kind star wars girl is type two. No tight two
Ah
Um, I was about to say like oh
What about the air traffic controllers strike? Isn't that the perfect example of working class versus the government in the 80s?
Turns out even according to movie bob's comment section that he's very much unaware of many relevant elements that things are having in the 80s
Um
Yeah, what was the thing he said? Um
You can't have a person taking seven medications in the 80s because they'd be in a coma. That was one of his points
Yeah taking seven pills a day in the 80s. That would put you in a coma like
Okay
As opposed to doing that in the 90s or present day. Yes, because medications are now much less. Um, they're much more
It's spaced out prescribed thinner or something like that. Oh
Yeah in 1990. Yeah, they they passed a FDA thing where the seven pill rule
Where this pill has to be compatible with at least six others simultaneous if you remember the exact wording of the bill was um,
Cannot cause a coma
All right. Yeah, pretty neat. Well, you know, well, you know coma prevention act cpa. Yeah
Um
Metabloke who made the same argument about the layer scene in tlj making the case that they're not really humans and that space
Installs doesn't have the same effects on living beings as in our own
Yeah, okay
This this scene makes sense if we change space
And you might be like, oh, well they already did because they have sounded space like
Sounded space isn't exactly changing much of anything in terms of progression. Is it that's one of those?
That's that's a movie thing. That's not an in-universe thing. Yes. There's actually
An argument to be made about so like, you know
how soundtracks
Can't necessarily exist in the in the movie
Unless it's like on the radio
So technically if you want to make like a soundtrack can't occur naturally you have to have like some kind of
Well sound effects and stuff and you just like couldn't you argue that those things are the sound effects of the movie to enhance
The experience rather than a narrative flaw
Unless we have characters reacting to the sounds I guess
That's true, but I can't think of any instance where a character reacted to a sound in space
Yeah, i'd have to rewatch them and really think about it
um
But yeah
Doing stuff all pack animals are dangerous
Especially when they are protected by the law and booting one in the face or even grabbing one will land you in jail
Really pack animals, what does that um encompass
Like pack animals like wolves
Yeah, I was just thinking like what else do you think that would cover
Also, wait, if you kick a wolf, would you be in trouble in the law?
If you kick a wolf the last thing you need to worry about is what the popo we're gonna do to you
Yeah, you might want to run
Well running won't do much actually
I don't know
Putting on the wolf at this point. Fuck it. You've already crossed the line assert dominance
Uh thomas eppstein didn't father arthur I get it
Hmm wolf have you seen cosmonauts video saying the watchman i'll save that for wolf
The question about watchman
the show that
Oof has pissed off a whole bunch of people, but hey
I just I know nothing about it. So i'm staying away mostly
Oh, no, not the themes not the themes. Oh and they're in my eyes my eyes
It's okay themes are okay you'll survive
um
I have seen a youtuber by the name of wolf on you podcast in the past. Did he delete his channel or something?
I can't find him
I don't know if that's supposed to be like
tongue in cheek, but uh be a new person could be a new person could be someone new
Maybe someone new. Um, he's the same guy who is now back and his channel is called of writing and rage rather than
um
the word of wolf
and
He actually recently got monetized
so uh
Gonna be kicking. Oh, that's good. Yeah, i'm getting this very good korea going I think or at least um
youtube going
Yeah, I really hope so you're telling me a famoid and an eagle
Famoid no less turned out to be evil and a sociopathic dog abuser. Imagine my shock loll repeal 19
Oh raw
a dog abuser
down with all dog abusers
What was the sign you held up? A dog eater dog eater
Yeah
Anna stop moaning. This is a christian podcast
Oh
I guess when she gets angry
Okay
She has a grunty guy. Yeah
Wolf because of you i'm listening to the expanse not even finished book one and i'm hooked. It's great maula. Give this to him
Please also high rags
Hello, I will and i'll hang on to that. I mean it's not something necessary has to respond to but i'll just keep it firm as well
Was fringy's um moan in the stream or was that just before we started?
That was in the stream, I think I hope it was in the stream because I think someone could fuck with that
It was quite embarrassing for him
Just disappoint out that uh, yeah, we point that out for everyone not just girls absolutely
Um on the comparison to taxi and comedy king
I think those older movies are deeper because those movies have more time to get reviewed in depth and these reviews became popular over time
I think that's completely fair. Um
It's almost like people want to race to the deep meaning of joker
And declare if it's there or not immediately when taxi driver and king of comedy have had decades for people to discover and discuss that
So yeah, I think that's a fair point
Were any of you considered cool in high school? I wasn't
Um, I mean I
I wasn't really either way for me. I got along with pretty much everybody, but I wasn't
Really like in any super social groups. I I sort of I got along with everybody
I was
is
Pretty unremarkable
I suppose at least in terms of my
place in this high school social hierarchy, you know, I was just
I was just around didn't have any enemies or anything
Yeah, i'd never called myself popular. I was
On friendly terms with most people towards the end though. There were like, you know a handful of jerks that
I didn't like and they didn't like me and they were generally more popular than me
That's ones I didn't like but on overall it was just mostly amicable towards the end
So earlier on I did, you know get picked on until I beat them up and then it starts
I was gonna say they encouraged you to study the blade, didn't they?
I
Was studying the blade for a long time before then
as uh
They were always a bit surprised that I knew how to handle myself when it came to it
I was uh
Totally in more if there was sectioned off into groups
It would have been like the video game group of people who would have like dspsps and
laptops and always play on games watch movies or tv shows or just talk about stuff while
Maybe there was sporting things or crafts or chess clubs all these different like t-trees
They would just be like nah, we want to hang out play media and stuff. Um, and mostly mostly liked
From what I remember and I I had the benefit of being a real life longoid. I was like six foot very early on so uh
Not many people could do much if they wanted to do bully stuff
Um, I could just fall on them and i'd win
Really handy
Also mauler and others if applicable thoughts on the simpsons movie
It was fine, I don't think it was uh, harshly bad or anything but it also
Is far away from where where the golden age of simpsons was
I don't know if you guys have seen it have you yeah once and uh, it was a movie
Can you say that objectively
I think I can pretty sure was it a movie now
Um
So wolf I saw that you found out what a map was on twitter still kind of hard to believe that godforsaken hellhole has gotten worse
That's minor attracted person, yeah, that's what it stands for
Yes, yeah, I had no idea
Uh, kick j gib rag
Is that give rag
Yes, give me what i'm not sure
Uh forget to uh forgot to add that you have to do a review with him for watching the star wars episode nine with bob
For a million dollars. I do a review with him
I don't know if the requirements are that we actually have to complete the project before he kicks me out of it
But i'm pretty sure I disagree with him at most of every turn i'd be like, um
You know when you say this crazy thing, how do you support it?
How do you support it? And then he's like, oh
I don't want to have to work with you
Diabeto's true arch enemy is sportacus from lazy town. Also j longbone has the best laugh i've ever heard
She does have a good laugh
Yeah, she does have a good one
There are a couple people who will be diabeto's true arch enemies, but sportacus is a good choice
Diabeto's
Uh maps I prefer to hit the road in my car play a playlist drive till it ends then search for a cafe or
Whatever and pull into a random town burn all maps I say
Okay
Wolf, what the hell is lord of the rings? I think you mean jab of the rings
True jab of the rings
Uh wakine phoenix is brown
I don't believe he's brown, but perhaps I haven't checked him in recently
Um, maybe he identifies as brown maybe I have not asked him
It'll be my third time watching if it is in
That's all that says it'll be my third time watching if it is in
I don't know what to make of that. But okay, this one just says kill me
I think we must be covering more movie bob at that point
You know, probably mola. Can you please refute all the tism arguments when you make your video praising this film?
I'll probably go as far as showing a montage of like
When you get people making a lot of the similar
comments, um, so definitely the king of comedy and joker comparisons or driver, uh taxi driver
and then
Um, I can't remember if there was like other ones probably just about like a theme compilation of some kind
That'll be kind of fun, but i'll mostly stay away from it because I like to involve
Reviewers more when i'm doing a longer thing
Um fuck off back to your hallmark movie you massive p
massive p hallmark movie, oh
Literally all this guy has done is describe a completely different movie and asserted
It's better said movie may very well be good because you can't make a good movie out of anything
You can make a good movie out of anything, but it's not inherently better
If he's got a foil or not, it's just a different movie. Ah, there you go
We're onto the second video in the super chat now
Get there
Somebody please purge this bad writing zito bad rewriting zito
Well, we kind of did by the end of that video, I think
Well, what the hell did we do to deserve this these holes?
The guy who it was a guy they were both guys nothing. It's a gift. Oh wait
They mean the guests. I mean I was gonna say that's dollars gail and jay longburn awesome guests
Yeah, they were good holes
uh, looks like we found the
The
Spelt with a k I was gonna say couldt
So I think they want to go they're aiming for cottont. Uh the proof read the last jedi
Oh, I mean nando according to jay. He wasn't a fan or at least he was only half a fan of tlj. So
perha perunid
um
Do do hey masses have you seen the bionicle web of shadows the animation is dated and it's cheesy to the max
But I think it's a surprisingly good story
I have not seen it. I have I haven't seen any of the bionicle movies
I didn't realize there was such like
Almost nostalgia for them. A lot of people seem to be aware of and like the bionicle movies and I was like, okay
Yeah, I I see him referenced in meme and stuff of like bionicle lore and stuff like that. Mm-hmm. Maybe there's uh
Maybe there's something to them. I don't know
I remember the toys. I I remember when they first came out
Uh, jeez rag your monthly thrust is lasting a while
I wish
I haven't even I haven't even had the first monthly thrust
Not even yeah, poor guy. He's not even getting his thrust terrible. I I've got man's got needs. Mm-hmm
Which team would you like to write star wars episode nine nando and bob or ruin and jaja?
Oh
shit
Hmm
Basically, do you think nando and bob would do a better job than what we have is yeah, and I don't know, uh
God, could you imagine a movie made by bob chipman?
Um
You know what?
Out of morbid curiosity. Yeah, I was gonna say like I wouldn't mind it just to see what they do
Yeah
Nando wouldn't realize what's gonna happen to him bob would consume
That man and yeah, he'll be he'll be horrible
chris cuckman he'd wear the
relationship
Stuckman's anger at rich perfectly mirrors that of arthur to murray. It's like pottery. It's like pottery
It's like pottery
Um, hell yeah, I had bionicles axon takanuva brutaka visorak bogorak
Helorak zoomers know what's good. We had the best toys
I remember a lot of uh, a lot of those names. Yeah, I I could still definitely remember how some of them looked
That was uh, raw by the way
Oh
Yeah, and uh, yeah, I remember bionicles. I had them as well
I remember bionicles they came out and they'd have a little new ones here and new ones there and kind of add to it over time
Is this guy related to ryan johnson, it's a good chance not going to confirm it
Um episode seven when jay longbone called jacob a pimp I fucking died
Yeah
jacob pimp
Joke book he gets what he deserves. This guy's revision for joker turns it into a jeff the killer level piece of creepypasta cringe
um
Yeah, there's a lot of things wrong with uh
Understanding it was it sucks for us. You missed you missed the whole video. It was really bad
You you've you've you're better off for it, but that disappoints me because you must suffer with the rest of us
Uh, dodge the bullet
Had my own things going on. But yeah, I I hear he was
I think I was there for part of it
Possibly. Yeah, I think in the beginning. Maybe I can't remember. I think I was there for for a pretty good portion of it
No, it was it was bad. It was bad
uh
Out of ryan johnson jj abrams and david benny off who do you feed to a ravenous horde?
Of sexually aroused dodos
Personally, I go with benny off. Um
So ryan jj or benny off
I don't know ryan isn't he's a prick. He really is
He's an asshole. That dude's just spiteful
Yeah, i'm thinking i'm thinking competent yeah jj just seems um
I don't know kind of yeah a little bit and then david benny off
I don't know what dnd were thinking but at least they destroyed something they made as opposed to destroying something someone else made
I don't know if that's slightly more virtuous, but I mean, yeah
Yeah, uh, I'd probably go with ryan. At least they kept the mess to their own kitchen, you know
Mm-hmm
I'd like to clarify my earlier super chat saying he's
Described a potentially good movie only the high concept joker with a direct foil. It's potentially good
Everything else here is aids that also gives you cancer. Oh
I mean, this is the thing. I I always like those different kinds of premises. I'll give them a shot
It's tough to make certain ones work more so than others like some of them could write themselves to a degree
But yeah that one he had
At the premise level could work. I mean a lot of people are looking to see if harley quinn can be the foil for joker, right?
Um, maybe maybe in a movie without batman. I mean
Potentially sure potentially so I don't know if that's gonna annoy
Comic fans. I don't know if that's how she operates in comics or not
I just I just don't care if it's like your comic book or not
Oh
I know you got super chat just says poop
Oh
I've done that. Hmm
Please bring back diabetes. Oh at least he was a good joke to laugh at plus
I remember him sacrificing his food for his mother going hungry himself
I remember him sacrificing his food for his mother going hungry himself
diabetes
Unless they're saying the movie bob did that I don't know if it's if that's the thing that he did
Sounds kind of funny. He doesn't look like the kind of guy who would sacrifice food for anybody
So basically he wants joker to be cliche and woke
Oh, yeah rags
There was this moment where he says like oh, so the girl turns out to be imaginary, right?
And he's trying to explain this better. She's not but he also says like hey, and you know
Not too great to make your only
uh
Only significant character who's a female a female of color person is imaginary
Well fuck off it's a it's a really bizarre comment and you could only conclude it's like you shouldn't have
People of color be imaginary
Okay
Or at least it's right. She's not even imaginary. She's a real person. It's just he imagines a relationship
It's a very real moment
Of that role
and i'm like, yeah, just
These people these people when they say these people are never satisfied
well
Maybe there's something to do that one gets that impression
often
Arthur went hungry so his mother couldn't could eat. Is that something that happens in joker? I really need to see that film again
I can't remember. Yeah, I can't remember really um, this is my favorite guest line of jay longbone anna and wags
More poops. Thank you. The joker is about a guy who uses scissors and becomes violent
Do you use scissors? Oh, yeah, he does it's the yeah. Yeah. Yeah
He didn't run with him. So no, he didn't run with him first
Safety first good film for that, you know showing what we should and shouldn't do we watched a time to kill in criminal justice class
Fair enough. Hope you enjoy what for I wonder
Um rip boogie two nine eight eight sad face i'm sure he's all that he died again i'm sure he's fine
Um last time I checked his channel wasn't going too well
Well, he's gone through a lot of um fuck ups to say the least
I think he's doing okay. Well, he's he's he's not said anything terrible recently. Dare I say
I don't actually who knows what we missed. Yeah, that's a good point
Exactly keeping tabs on him. But you know, I haven't heard anything and I usually hear about it if it's something bad, but
Yeah, I've not heard anything
really terrible, um
Hope he's doing fine
I think he's averaging about a hundred thousand views a video
With his recent stuff
That's a bit better than uh, what he was pulling before enough
Yeah, that's enough
It'll be enough to get by but it's a shadow compared to what he used to pull in yeah
I think he's talking about a book or something. I'm not sure. Oh what that was referencing specifically
Because it would have been in that video. I think jay is allowed
very true
He is um, yeah when I get my firearms license in two months, i'm obviously gonna go to it
Uh go isa fuck at the moment. I get my shiny new browning 1911
Oh, yeah
I can't even remember specifically he had like he said that um
Joker when looked through the lens of like a study called the trigger pulls the finger
uh
If joe he says something like if joker's about anything it's about a madman being given a gun and then choosing to kill people
Or something like that it was really annoying. Oh, oh, so, you know, he kills people with a pair of fucking scissors, right?
You did that because he had a gun right
Oh, okay, idiot
It's like you don't even know how guns work
No, no clue
All in his head endings are almost always lazy bs
I mean, I can probably agree with that. Um, it's it's nice
If there's a whole bunch of plotting or details that could lend themselves toward the idea at the end sort of thing instead of just saying
Boom, it was all in his head. You're like what?
Um
I can't think there's that a lot of examples i've taught my head of stories that do that but uh
Not typically a huge fan of it myself
Um
I also say the simpsons movie is objectively good
I mean i'd have to watch it again. I don't remember having that much of an issue with it
Yeah, i haven't even seen it
Came out a while ago though, didn't it?
Yeah, that was like 2000. I want to say eight. I could be wrong
Yeah
Simpsons movie
It doesn't seven I was close
Okay, so this is this is a weird super chat just says hmm harder daddy
Oh, yes
Hong Kong number one and then a clown emote and
I can't tell what that is another remote
Uh
I interpret the ending of joker as it's
Ending where it starts with no one caring or understanding joker now delights in suffering and finds this funny
I mean
Yeah, it's pretty explicit right the seeing the world instead of reacting to it as it's all a bad thing
Reacting to it like it's all hilarious. There's all ended up this way
And I think that's kind of a great time nailed right in when he thinks about the child
Standing in an alleyway with his dead parents and he says that that's he's like laughing
Hey wolf you see any bad anime or manga I will save this question
Joker critics the bad stuff that happens in the joker is unrealistic history. Am I a joke to you?
I mean
Seems like it just a little bit
We've uh, we've done three podcasts on joker takes now
Oh boy, and there's more to come so many joker takes really man. Some people just
Oh
They just don't get it
Uh, stop putting flutes in your mouth. We put willies in our mouths in the u.s
Is that true ranks will is what?
Does you put willies in your mouth in the u.s? All right. Yeah every once in a while, you know
just uh
Keep it keeps you sharp, you know
Uh democracy is non-negotiable I like it
Giving you money is proof that capitalism will always prevail over communisms
Yeah, boy
We're going to that way. We're gonna build a wall and make the flute musicians pay for it
That was looters
Yeah, because we had that were you do you remember when we got spammed or does that not sound familiar to you?
No, we had like, um
I think I cover the name of the spam account
But it was a person that used multiple accounts and they were spamming this like chinese paragraph and when translated it literally offered
its opinion on joker
Which is pretty crazy and it was that is really strange. Um, I don't even think that movie came out in china
I don't know what I mean a chinese person could watch it, right?
Or
Maybe that's the meme to be like a fucking american who's like i'm gonna translate my view into chinese
And spam it on efap just to get them to be curious enough to read it
I mean it worked
yes, he was um
someone made a meme about like
A flute man who was that account and he's already made it made it into that big. Uh meme picture
Yeah, so that was a flute guy. All right
Um, the length of efap has allowed me to flex on my friends in ways. I never thought possible
Thank you for making the 10-hour work days so much faster
No problemo
Oh, you bet i'm glad it helps to go through quicker
We need a mod bot named liberty prime who deletes flute musician better dead than red
I remember liberty prime. Oh wait. No, sorry is that four because there was a robot in uh
Yeah, they do them in both
Okay
Uh, wait, what is fluke saying? Anyway, is he a commie? He was reviewing joker
Reviewing joker kick the flautist and j
Oh, he got kicked eventually j rah go get rah's pagoda rooftop
Honestly though spamming a chat to get your support that loses your support if anything
They didn't think that through though when you get like
Your brand new on let's say twitch and you're streaming for zero viewers
You might be like if I spam my link into somebody's chat
I might just get enough of them to be curious enough to click on it and one viewer is better than zero
So it's worth it
So it's like and then they'll arrive and be like, oh I can see why you have zero viewers and they'll leave
I mean if you have an amazing stream stream, you might actually be able to get a fan that way, but I wouldn't recommend it. It's extremely
Assholely, it's not organic, you know
Name the way it's supposed to be
Um
Helicopter the flute commies bill freebo hong kongings
bill freebo hong konging
rah forget the roof through the wait
For off forget the roof through the chinaman off the wall. Oh
I get it. Oh, yeah, let's say throw the chinaman. But yes, you can't see a very long roof
Oh, yeah, yeah, if you're strong enough, you can throw him really high off it and then the the resulting landing will
quite a bit
You can't seize the memes of production very true
Ending of the beginning he means the middle. It's all the middle
Indeed it is meant to say throw. Ah, there you go
Uh, I feel like this guy is the kind of guy who would like the twilight movies. Oh nando
I don't know maybe
Hi for the record i'm not the flute musician I believe you for now
Hello fellow humans free king kong eppstein did nothing wrong
I think those are the memes
Uh go to the dentist nando your teeth are yellow. Well, well
Oh no, yeah, you can get some teeth whitening stuff now
You know, it's it's not over if they're yellow you can do some stuff
um anti ephaps assemble
my goodness
One punch was soiled from that point on forever after. Oh, yeah. He said that uh
Yeah, yeah, so he had an ad rags where he said that um
Yeah
He's on this like website where you can get his content earlier than on youtube and i was like, okay
And he said that there's this if you subscribe to this website you get access to this other thing
And it's a thing where there are content creators that are making like
This the way he described it
Was like there'll be a topic and then everyone will make a video for it and you can watch them all together at once
And he said the one they just did was
Talking about the best title sequences in like tv shows and the one he did was one punch man
And like the creators he referenced were like just right patrick williams was like no no no no
What
Let's say yeah, they do a lot of collaborative stuff and it's like oh, that's that's kind of cool
You know good for you guys. Keep it up
Yeah
Are those guys y'all's legion of doom a little bit yeah a little bit
They're not blinking it's a trap he's trying to turn more people into nandroids robot youtubers were rising up
I mean
You really think an android would hold the opinions that he does come on now
Give androids a little bit more credit
um
Wanted to thank efap and maula your videos have showed me how to better justify my arguments have evidence in the script and a
Well-worded delivery as a sound design student. It's been so useful
I'm glad for that. Yeah, that's great, man
Hopefully it has been helpful and I mean you saw it with the other video we we we put on
We really like it when videos just got high production values including script writing. It's just like oh
What a welcome release from the the sludge like that we get on youtube
Uh, the only thing cineblob said that was ever right was that ghost in the shell live action is not as good as the original
I don't know anybody who's said the reverse of that
I've always heard yeah
I I
Liked the live action one
um
But yeah, I could see why
It's it
Not as good as the original
And I love the the show. I I really love the show
I love standalone complex and second gig and even arise. I thought was all right, but
I'm a big ghost to the shell fan
You mean you're a freaking weeb
I
Guess if that makes me a weeb I haven't watched I couldn't tell you the last time I watched an anime though
Wow, like I legit couldn't tell you I have no idea
Why'd you hit anime?
I just don't care
Well, that's okay
Um, you're right long bone. He's not tempting you he's tempting you to commit suicide to drum symbol
Oh, I get it like the sound effect. Um
Just tuned in so miss the no doubt amazing joker takes can't wait to see the mooler upload
Oh man, and it's not even up yet, but it will be
The wait won't be much longer. Yeah, the people who are watching this live who may have missed that stream
It's kind of funny that they'll be getting that one out before this one
So it might line up better for them than a lot of people but hey
Them's the
Um, i'm going to sleep now good night everyone also hi rags
Good night and hi
Hi and good night
If you re-watch the rise of skywalker trailer, you can see the spelt forever as fulva
Why do I doubt that
One of them super high production thingy's like yeah, what do you mean like the first trailer?
Also, how would no one else have mentioned this to us like the whole
They were just spelt forever as fulva
Fulva fulva
Fulva, yeah, I mean that came from the account darth maul would darth maul lie to us. I don't think so
Uh, why are we still talking about joker charlie's angels is out
We're gonna go see charlie's angel well
Yeah
Good
Critical drinkers video i'm surprised he even made it. He was like, why did you go see that?
Yeah, elizabeth the maker of it blames you for its failure
That um, I didn't know drinker made a video i don't know i'm gonna have to watch that it's it's so like
so bitter the um
elizabeth banks
Poor woman just want to I guess it's because if it's her first like
Significant outing as a director and this might actually determine the rest of her career. So maybe she's just super pissed about that
Yeah, blame everyone else not my own ability
Um wolf hears some aspirin money for movie blob very kind of you
Of how'll appreciate it?
Uh youtube gave me money for some reason rhino milk's on me massive
Thank you very much maula in america middle school is indefinite
I get it
The middle's the longest part
Uh god school systems aren't even the same across the uk. Never mind trying to understand the americisms
Yeah, that's what I thought was that uh, it changes even in britain alone
Us doesn't use metric system meaning uk is better
Um, I mean, you know, you gotta let them do their thing. That was the whole point
We were like, hey you guys you go take that bit of land over there and do your thing
So if they choose that system let them choose it all right, it's not for us to judge isn't that right rags
Yeah, you wouldn't want to be insecure and
Yeah, or closed-minded and immature. Yeah
Um metric system is the absolute big gay
And this is a separate account saying metric metric system is the big gay
Apparently a lot of people think the metric system is the big gay
I don't know what to say about that
Hmm, I don't know. I like it
Therefore I like miles per hour, but I like uh, I like the rest of the metric stuff
Like quartz and gallons and all that volume is a nightmare
You don't like loud soup
loud soup
I think is there a metric for volume or is it all like like decibels? Yeah. I mean
There's probably more to it than that as well
Yeah, maybe
Uh, my elementary school was kindergarten to fourth grade then I went to an intermediate school
Which was fifth and sixth grade then middle school, which was seventh and eighth and finally four years of high school
Wow, all right
Um
Alice kills her man i'm calling it
Oh, do you mean dodgeson?
Oh my god rags if we're doing the finale for house's storyline, we might not even see dodgeson now
No, he's captured surely. I hope he's still in this. I need the end to dodgeson's story. He's my favorite. Yeah
I gotta know how is
Our thing. Yeah, I need him to I need him to say to jacob
You know what the crows aren't even really that bad. It's just my inner conflict. I need that
I
kind of figure out just their their relationship and their motivation and their deep and
And carefully explored backstories and flesh out just what they're doing and why and we're never gonna such
good show
I think I think the rifle said he was working for sophia
Maybe sophia carmine coming in soon also calling that christopher fistifer was framed
Uh
Well, yeah, we know he was oh you mean framed originally it's possible he was called the fist in the um
the executioner episode
Um, this is the thing about luke's trouble. Does he know that that guy killed?
his dad because if he doesn't know it for sure and it was actually like just decided upon by the prosecutor who
apparently
Prosecuted innocent people you might want to be like did the guy actually do it or not?
You know because he's like sad that the guy got out of prison or might do through a retrial
like the luke well if this was
a show in that was far better developed and characters that we gave a shit about then
Man, that could have actually been something we cared about. Yeah, but
Never mind have you seen any batwoman shed like uh yourself or you need to see
I don't want to harm myself that much just yet
But I have been enjoying the commentaries on them and that has not made me want to watch it anymore
Have you seen our commentaries on them?
Some of them not not all of them and oh
There's not a single episode that hasn't essentially made us laugh out loud with a some form of an explosion or something
Really? Yeah, they're really it's really really bad
That's the worst shot at the scene
I'm really hoping that the next set of episodes they've been approved to film
Are going to be even worse because these are more on a timeline than the other ones where they first started and maybe had more
I'm just I'm just hoping they rushed and they do even worse. Please
Give me all those lols
I think the rifle said he was oh, yeah, so yeah so fear uh could be the replacement bad guy once
Alice is put in jail or arkham. I'm almost certain alice is going to arkham
I don't think they're going to yeah, I don't think they'll kill her out
Spend too much time trying to make us sympathize with that psychopathic murderer. Mm-hmm
Schools differ on a state by state basis. That makes sense
Yeah
Yes, all my best youtubers at the same time. Hello wolf. So great to see you again
Hope you're doing great. I have to go to work now. So here's some of the money I earned without tax knowing about it
All right
All right
And uh, yeah, you'd appreciate that. Um
About to sleep and almost done with efap 50. I love you masters
I love the idea that someone's just finished 50 of the try to catch up to us
We're like running away with how long these episodes are. We're like
Like you can't catch this
This one's like seven or so hours right now. Yep
and
Fucking tired. We've not actually hit the current episode super chats yet
Oh
Man, yeah
Let's go. Oh, I guess
we gotta
Oh metals in the chat really guys again
I didn't mean to it's this one's only been like seven hours. Yeah, it's not even seven hours metal. What the hell?
well
Most podcasts are like that long when you consider them in and in and amongst other podcasts put together and added to the time
Okay, so it makes sense
Yeah, I mean if they do a daily podcast technically they're doing like, you know, seven hours a week
That's about the same as efap. Um movie bob does a podcast and I think it's either weekly or bi-weekly
But um, he his is like 40 minutes
It's like 40 minutes fucking week we it's not enough time for an intro
Yeah, I know we usually don't finish our intro at that point
Um, it's okay. Anna height is subjective
Oh, yeah, because she's like I think she's like five foot
Um, or even less than that. I think she has to she said I think she said she had to have a booster seat
um
In certain was a certain state or to a certain age. I think she said
Uh, that's cute
Because yeah, I mean, you know, you got to make sure that seat belt actually applies or something. But yeah, um
Sure safety first everyone
Um
It all down me don't want to use the bell crying about
Uh, I'll admit scrappy wasn't that bad. Thanks. Anna
Didn't everyone hate scrappy? Or I didn't realize people. It's a piece of shit scrappy. I like it wrong
And we I thought you hate scrappy too, right even though you don't know much about scooby-doo
Uh, yeah, like because I don't like scooby-doo i'd say I hate scrappy by naturally extension. Yeah
Scrappy was a piece of shit. He was the villain
like scooby-doo was so damn predictive
Predictable and the animation of the original was so crap. It was always side shots moving just locked all right and everything
Kids need
Why are you attacking?
The monster just happened to be the only one person that we met right before we went into the
Yeah, like they entered the cave or whatever this is creepy all bad
It's just like oh, there's a ghost don't go in there. It's dangerous and then turns out to be him. You know, oh man
Winkle bottom, what are you doing?
Winkle bottom
like sometimes
I just get the feeling kids watch
Stuff because it's there and they have no real, you know
I
Don't know like my kids watch even today some of the crap they watch on youtube i'm like
Wow
Even scooby-doo's better than this
A lot of you know, they do that thing right where you go. I haven't watched this since I was a kid
I don't actually know if it's as good as I remember. That's a little thing. We often say
They're like four seconds in you're like, oh god. Oh jeez
Oh, no, I was dumb
Cute
I was dumb kid
Can we get a puppy power from anna, please?
Oh, I mean I can ask you the next time she comes on
A bit of a strange one, but i'm sure she'll be okay with it. Well, that's what scrappy would say
That's what I just think that's his like that's his that's that little shit
Stupid fucking catchphrase was puppy power. That's what he'd say. I remember
I'm like, oh god, you're just how how did you make yourself more hateable? You managed it
Yeah
And you know rags is biased toward doggos guys, so you know, this is genuine. Yeah, man
Like uh, like scrappy to us is like hitler to you guys
Uh, whatever happened to that cg animation of mauler rags and wolf is dark jedi
I believe uh, we had the two episodes and I think he said he was working on a third one
but um, he can't rush genius and that stuff was amazing so
Uh, but yeah, I I imagine we'll get a third eventually and um, i'll be looking forward to it
All the brush art all the bob bulges from his donut cock ring donut cock ring. All right
Oh my
Movie bob has been a part of efap since the first 10 episodes
How has it taken this long for him to become a meme? Well diabeto needed specific circumstances to be created you see
That's why there's only one that's why he's special
I'll just you know, it doesn't just happen. There's only one diabeto
And besides like he really hurt wolf on the first time we covered him. He like
You know, he knocked him out
horrible
You gotta you gotta take these things into consideration, um
Detective ham hock was already a show called cannon
I have no idea. But yeah, I mean ham hock is probably the name of somebody. I thought it was based on something. It's just funny
I like it
The main reason he's hated is uh
He became the rest of the gang also given 10 years j
Wait, sorry the main reason he's hated because he became the rest of the gang
I think scrappy. Yeah scrappy became the rest of that's right
They did a they did a later like secondary series where suddenly it was only
Um scooby shaggy and scrappy and all the other characters were just absent. They weren't there. Oh, I see what you mean
Um, yeah, that's uh, uh, that's a bad also give him 10 years j
uh
Give him 10 years jl
He will be the size of a macy's day balloon also ifap watts
I don't know ifap watts
Yeah
I'm guessing that macy's day parade balloon is a reference to movie bob but ifap watts
I don't spell that. Uh, well, it's wats ifap watts
I don't know
Tap watts, uh, you know guys. Oh, yeah, go ahead. Sorry. I might have to keep going now. Um,
Family's all back in the morning dinner
So it's been seven hours you're right
Yeah, I wish I could stick around but dinner's here and it's pizza. Maybe i'll come back up the pizza
We'll see how we go. But uh
Yeah, you can always drop in drop out, but I was gonna say do you want to um
Talk about your channel, even though i'm pretty sure you're you're almost ifap family now, but I don't even care
Oh, I appreciate that guys. I feel like family and um, talk about why they should subscribe do it
Well, uh, well it turns out I can be a bit of a longman too
And I have a new series on my channel called fight scene autopsy where I literally reviewed like five minutes of uh fights
Five and it's turned into maybe 40 minutes of content of what i'm reviewing. So
Highly detailed pedantic stuff about sword and medieval stuff and it's all lots of fun
Have you checked out the fight scene autopsy videos yet? Yeah, I watched the um the tlj throne room one. Um,
I've got a backlog of videos to go through but yeah, that was uh, you've you've got the top evisceration of that I suppose
Thank you that like
It is amazing how bad that fight is when you really break it down
Like into every individual move the combatants take it's like what?
Yeah, and uh if you listen to the behind the scenes and i've said this before I just it just boggles my mind
ryan johnson said
Uh that they've learned the sequence so well that he can just record wherever he wants with the camera and it'll work
And I was like so on one hand they have not recorded uh developed the choreography well enough. I'm sorry, but like
Loads of it makes no sense at all. And secondly, he cuts it up
Like if you had it so you honestly believe the entire sequence was down from memory by all the people
Like wouldn't you want it to be one big long amazing one shot instead of?
Yeah, he cuts around a lot. So it's just like okay interesting take
But yeah, um, it's good stuff. Go and check it out. I could have if I wanted to I just didn't wanna so there
Yeah, the link's also in the description. Thank you for hanging out for so long. Uh, mr
shad and we shall have you back in the future for more
Objectives i'm sure
In my pleasure. I might be back
Um a bit later on in this stream where I might not we'll see how I go
But if not, it's been a pleasure fellas as always and thank you. Thank you. You bet
All right, there he is. See ya. Bye
Bye. Bye. And then there were two
I'm gonna turn off my heater. Is this getting
Um, okay theory this whole stream was merely a ruse to get us to make bob fan art
I don't think he'd like the fan art though
I found out jack saint blocked me on twitter over the tax and pronouns thing and I can't help but share how happy I feel
Um, I mean no loss there. I mean he'd get a block plan is not exactly gonna stop you from enjoying twitter or anything
So you'll be fine
Uh, jay
Jay Longbone. Love you vid on afro boy confronting abortion lady
Will the efap gang and jay longbone record themselves on a wrinkle of time soon?
A wrinkle in time soon. Yes, actually. I really want to set that up before
uh
episode nine comes out actually so
Actually. Yeah, let's do it. I mean i'm very encouraged to do it. I just need to find the right time
I'll probably talk to her uh
Tomorrow maybe about figuring out when we can do it
Um, that sounds good. I'd like that
Bring alcohol
Gonna be a jade
Uh, hey i'm at work on the pooper when I saw your stream. Keep up the good streams, my dude
Absolutely. Poopy streams aren't so bad. You saw it. You saw it from the pooper
He did he was on the pooper looking at his stuff on the phone source right there. I guess it was a phone
I doubt he has um his laptop or his full pc and tower on the toilet, but you know some people that's the way they want to live
That's fine
Some people are big on efficiency. Let's call it a throne and you're done
Uh, hey massives thoughts on equilibrium starring bale, uh, I like it. Um
I haven't watched in a long time now though
Yeah, so I don't know what I would say about it, but um, he rescues a doggo in the film. So
Definitely already five points. Good guy. He's a good man. He's a good man
Uh
Also, do you think the protagonist is a gary stu I think he is but he has a good character unlike ray
so
And his whole point is that he's like what he does is is special like he's a he's very good at gunkata, right?
Um, but yeah, but he does get found out and subvert a couple of times a lot of characters really don't like him
And um, I guess I'd need to re-watch it, but I suppose he gets through most of the plot
Pretty easily. I don't know. Um possibly I can't recall specifics. Yeah
And female I did not see her when I sent original super chat
That's the guy who said he saw it when he was on the pooper
Oh
But yeah, all right
Judging from the double standards out there movie bob was wrong. There are no bad targets only bad shooters
I mean, yeah bad
He's certainly a just a bad person like this. He's like no bad
Just a shitty person. Yeah, he's cruel and vindictive and full of malice, man
Like i've never like i've never seen him like happy he needs to see the light of the dawn
Then he will be free
Yeah, he needs a he needs something. He needs an intervention
Can you picture like we we get the dawn to just you know, look into that and like
As as movie bob is writing his next review like the dawn walks into his room and he's like, how about a smile for me?
Movie bob was like
He like does the thing from uh, the body statches just points. Oh, yeah
I am firmly convinced that if movie bob was in charge of jimmy during world war ii way more people would have died
I mean
Yeah, it would be the
Inquisition style thing where you'd just be like
What is your opinion on x?
Then um
You better not answer that question wrong
Mm-hmm
I'm firmly convinced that if oh, sorry i'm
On three say knobs intro welcome. Hello and welcome to no bullshit
Hello and wait, oh wait, so
On three say knobs intro which is hello and welcome to no bullshit
You have to do it in his voice as well though, right? It's like hello and welcome to no bullshit
Yeah, suppose we can give it a shot
Well, I mean I guess if you wanted it to get done together if you've said it and i've said it you can easily edit that together
Right. What does he actually want it to how I said it?
Oh, he's gonna say it together
Are we just gonna say it together, but do we do it on our voices for an impression of him?
We do it
In our impression of him. Okay
So
On three, so it's hello and welcome to no bullshit. Yeah
All right
One two three hello and welcome. Oh, he didn't do what the fuck no bullshit
You know
It's tough to say i'll just i've done it separately. I'm pretty sure you have they could edit that together
I don't even know. It's um, I don't even know this for a be able just to fuck around
today
Well, either way hello and welcome to no bullshit
Man who makes fantastic videos
Here's some he's he's so smart and clever
For the surprise midweek efap also the two women to look at one for each eye
There you go. Ooh
Diabeto at full power versus three zombified ginger sheep that constantly scream debates are gay and stop talking about my wife who wins debates are gay
I think you're underestimating how powerful diabeto is
You can like diabeto is very powerful. You can like craft spears out of sugar
That you are yeah, he he will ensure that you are freshly sugared
Don't attempt to reason with diabeto will be in trouble. Don't attempt it
Prepare to be iced
Doom sprinkles or
Doom sprinkles, that's a sidekick, maybe
Diabeto and his sidekick doom sprinkles doom sprinkles
Um
Okay, uh, wow sidekick could be whole though for a donut hole
Oh, yeah, then together they form the completed donut
The whole don't beat oh and whole
Uh, wow so many jebbs movies we've not seen now, we know what it means to be jay
Yeah, that's quite a fun experience. You feel very small and silly and
You feel like you can't do many things right at all and you that you feel like a person who would annoy no bullshit regularly
Fascinating wow rags is taking his time. No. No he's here. He's here. It's fine
I'm here. Mm-hmm
I mean, I know this is referring to a completely different time of day, but he's here. Um and a happy birth must to e-man gameplay
Happy birthday indeed. Oh, absolutely. Happy birthday
Daily reminder that eppstein got nae nae'd by the clinton's also rag also high rack. Sorry. Yes, and yes. Oh, hello
Um
Are we still are we on today's streams yet? Nope today's stream yet. Oh my goodness
But we do have we're going at a steady pace right now and we do still have like four hours
I think we're going. Oh my goodness. I don't know if i'll be able to stay up for it. I've been up all day
Um, that's the thing. So well as long as you're able to it's almost one in the morning. I've been up for
15 hours as long as you something like that stay in the corner just mute if you need to go. Um
It'll work for me then huh as long as if you need to go just just mute yourself and leave because uh
Because then the call stays active
Oh gotcha. Gotcha. Mm-hmm
I'll do what I can
That's okay. Do what I can. Okay, damn you rock'em sock'em robots. Can't we all just get along?
Not even sure that's referencing exactly. No
Uh, no, thank you for hours of entertainment and send my love to wags
Oh
Oh, he got to said it himself. That's a nice little happen stance
Do you know the mcmuffin man?
The mcmuffin man. Yes, I know mcmuffin man
Uh, who is this fellow right now?
I don't know if that's referring to the second video we did that was an end of his movies. If not
Maybe it was the no bullshit thing in that case. It's no bullshit if that is. Um
No, because that was on a different stream i'm not 100 sure of who that's referring to but hopefully that answers it. Um
If you're is that your
Char character das just curious
I think he said it was from a game. He was playing and it got uh drawn up
Yeah, um, that's uh, yeah the
Guild wars race the char
They're like bear cats
Kind of really nifty. I like him
Uh das gmod the star wars episode nine in a nutshell, please
Oh, right. Uh
I mean, he probably would consider doing that but he's uh, very busy lots of projects
Um
So we provided
Oh wait, we did. Uh, we did read that one out. That's fine
Um elf elf on a shelf eppstein didn't kill himself
Agreed a fine rhyme
quick play act bar theme
Act bar scene we need you
Engage the most tismy massive place i've ever been has to be the isle of man that or the celestial diabeto
Jeb is objectively a gay leftist
I don't disagree with a gay leftist I think that's just uh a slice of truth right there
Uh, can we get an f in the chat sorry
Okay
Niles wouldn't lie if he calls us leftists. I don't know. I'll be clearly we must be well
I'm just you know next time we get called nazis. I'll be like, excuse me. I am a shady leftist. Thank you very much
certified left
Can we get an f in the chat for the brain cells lost during bob's terrible video also petitioned
Petition to get john to change his name back to digital fear
Oh, that's john cjg
Um, hey rags used to think your whistling was your phone
Never heard anyone whistle that well. Would you mind giving us a mini solo? Love you chaps?
Uh
I I'll actually i'll write it down to uh whistle later because right now I just ain't got it in me
Okay. Oh
But I but I am actually writing a note down to do that. So
I I will ensure that you do get your whistle next defap. I suppose i'll just i'll I'll make sure that I
During other whistles. I will I will other whistles. Fuck it. I'm tired
During other efaps. I will I will whistle throughout casually, you know
Like you won't know and then it'll pop up. Oh, it's gone, but but it'll be back. It'll be back
Um, what mics do you use for efap 80 2020 for the both of us, right?
Yeah, mine's the usb. I think yours is the xlr one. Yep
Yeah, so yeah audio technica at 2020
Good stuff. Very good. Yeah roses are red debates are gay. Epstein was murdered. Why couldn't it have been jay?
Also, can you say my old man goldstein super chat for rags and wolf, please?
Old man gold old man goldstein
Old man goldstein i'm afraid
Unless i've put it down somewhere that one may be lost to time
Oh, no old man goldstein. I'm not sure which one it refers to. Um
I mean old man goldstein a little chat list. You might have to control f for it
It was from zack gill but he sent in um, uh a few um
Hopefully, uh, I will try and look for it a little later
I'll have to
load up
Many for all of the uh the episodes and then just make sure I catch it. I think it's from the same one
Old man, I will try and look into it
Uh, did I miss bob's video? I'm not sure if I should be glad to be spared stupidity or sad
I didn't get to see your brain cells committing suicide
Oh, just take the w
I'm gonna say you uh, you can find your way back to it if you want to
Uh, please get john cjg on the combo between youtube about writing would be golden
Plus I know his sense of humor would fit right in here looks at rooftop and then pile of corpses also praise the dawn
Praise the dawn and yeah, um, I mean i'll i'll give it a shot. I'll send a message on the old twitter to
John cjg
He's uh, the guy who made arby and the chief if he's interested
We could give it a shot
Um, I would kill both my parents with a hammer if it meant I got to see a mandingo fight between brett keene and movie bob
Oh my goodness. Um
I don't know if I go that far personally, but I mean I would pay a decent chunk of buddy to see that
um
You're in charge of a new buffy spin-off, but it can't start any of the scoobies or team angel or anyone else
Works, what would your basic premise be?
So there's a couple I'd like to do
I think the story is going to get complicated if we set it after the events of buffy considering how it ends
I might want to set it. Uh
Be slayer before buffy basically and maybe make a story about that
Or do a ripper show. I think that would make a lot of sense
Um
We'll go for spike bike specific show, you know, there's a lot of options you can have and screw with the narrative
um
And without going into too much depth, uh, I'd be game to test out a lot of things but I wouldn't want to do the same thing
Uh, because buffy exists and it's great. We can just have that
Look up diabeto family guy clip online we did and um, yeah, they have a diabeto joke. It's not quite the same but it's um
Hey, it's pretty good
Uh, what would you guys like to see from the matrix four?
I don't want to see it
Does this happen in right? Well, that's a question. I don't get asked often
I don't go away
I don't want it either. But if you're gonna if if we have if there has to be one, I don't even know
What would we make it about?
Yeah, because it's all finished
Like are we just gonna see a different cycle or something? I don't know humans and machines working together. It's
Sure something goes wrong maybe a third force of some kind
machines compressor
Like the humans and aliens of most and not sorry the humans and machines are mostly working together
But then there's some kind of alien force that invades
I don't know
Because that I will have to see what they want to do
But I would err on the side of safety and just be like let's not
Let's not
Um efap war of the tisms
yes
saving efap 69 for star wars 9
I don't think we'll make it to 69 before star wars. In fact, we're on 62 now
We'll have 63 on the first
or 65
Right now it's looking like it'll be 66 for episodes with for episode 9
Which I think
Is very very cool
Yeah
Um
Every one of these movies is practically hard nut to crack. There's no source material
Um is it particularly hard nut to crack? It's no source material. We don't have comic books. We don't have 800 page novels
Kathleen Kennedy. No, really this was recently. Yeah, I know she's insane
I love the idea that she's arguing that it's harder to write something when you when you're not adapting it
But it's like that's not even there are pros and cons to that process. I'll have you know
When you're the one who got rid of all that stuff
You're the one who said all the extended universe that wealth that treasure trove didn't count anymore and you're like, oh no
No, we don't something to copy. Oh, well, maybe you should have thought ahead stupid
Mola, did you read my diabeto origin chat in origin story in chat?
I don't know
Possibly not though. Probably not. I mean
I don't remember reading the story about it in chat
Unless I read it out myself, I guess. Um
30th season by the way someone euthanized the simpsons now
To be honest with you if you'd asked me I probably would have said they must be past the 30th season by now
Like if they're still going you'd thought I honestly would have thought they were up to like 40th. But hey, yeah
That's where they are
Please do an efap where batman eats toothpaste
Do an efap
An efap where batman eats toothpaste
Not sure I follow on that one
Also, you should play cataclysm dda and watch iron sky
I don't know what either of those are
iron sky dant
Dda I I don't I don't I don't know what that is cataclysm dda. Just a second. Um
Um, oh cataclysm dark days ahead
I know this the one that is seph. Uh zintac reviewed zintik
Certainly sounds interesting. I have seen the review a couple times
Um
In the dark future the soldiers of efap continue a thousand-year crusade against the blobs of house chipmunk deusfault
Hey, we're still going after all that time
bad, yay
Hello all non rags also book mary kill yourself rags wolf mauler
What oh, I guess. Okay. Uh
Uh, wait, how did we kill yourself if that doesn't mean
Well, maybe it's fuck mary kill yourself rags mauler
Or yourself wolf mauler
Okay. Yeah, I guess I follow so I have to kill fuck or marry myself
Um, i'm not gonna kill myself I guess
I guess I can marry myself i'll be self-partnered as uh, I don't actually know
I don't think you can marry yourself
You could fuck yourself though
Well, then that's the pointless question because you can't even you can't even choose that option
Yeah
I guess by the process of elimination. I fuck myself
Yeah, I guess I guess I gotta
And um, i'll just marry rags and we'll do infinite episodes of efap
And I guess i'll kill wolf
Um, yeah wolf dies
You can and we're gonna
We're gonna go and we'll just invent a resurrection machine
disappear into
the mediterranean and
Disappear off the face of the planet never be seen or heard from again. Probably each just
Fuck ourselves
We can always um
Stream the efap from the mediterranean. I don't know
Yeah stream us fucking ourselves. Oh, yes
Uh, which is stronger tism or the force?
Well tism changes based on the person
I guess the force does too. Yeah
Well, yeah, you know highest concentrations of the force versus the tism i'm pretty sure tism wins
I'll have to check with my scientists
Uh, hi strong though
I've seen so we've seen some mighty tism. Yeah, and it really does challenge your understanding of like reality
It's that that strong
Uh
Are you beautiful doggo rag hello rags dominate arch and convince him mauler is v
Oh, I would I don't oh they're so dull man
I don't have the skill. I don't have like I don't actually I physically I don't have dominant as a
discipline
Why would you want to convince him? He's be the i'm ved
Yeah, why would you do that?
That's the other problem
I don't have that necessary discipline unlocked but also
Why?
Um, I still have free super chat, so I don't know if you talked about mandalorian, but I thought it wasn't good
Too much bad in a super chat
Uh, I think it's good
I do think it's mostly good. Yeah, but not perfect until I see the full season. I can't really be more definitive because
I don't know where it's gonna go what it's gonna do, but i'll be interested to see what happens
Um
My grandma passed away recently and my dad and I have to take care of stuff
I'm, so lucky you guys were streaming today to bring a smile to my face
Yeah, sorry to hear it man. And um
hopefully
You can have some fun with this. Uh, these streams
Also muesli. I think you will uh, you chose the objectively hardest hex girl in my opinion
Well, I mean it looks like most people choose it well, yeah, probably not the best
I wanted to give you some money, but didn't know what to say. So I settled on this
All right
Hey mauler since j brought it up last efap. I spruced up the giant playlist look up mauler streams and look at info
If you're still curious
I mean, I don't mind someone making a playlist of like all streams that
Jay or I or rags have appeared on like that's fine
It's just a lot of them are unlisted just because I don't want them
Uh active on my channel
And I don't know where else to release uh put them
director said no sequel
Director said no sequel. Oh about joker we shall see
I wouldn't call it too early
Uh, yeah, I mean I would if they've if they gotta make one
Well, no i'm saying like uh irrelevant whether or not we think they should i'm just saying like if they've announced the director
That he's not doing i'd be like that thing made a billion dollars like
Pretty sure they're gonna be interested in getting a sequel out of him. And if he refuses who knows what's gonna happen then
Then what they'll do is they'll pick a new director. Yeah, I was gonna say like the the the sequel film will probably make its money back
Uh, even if it's terrible, but they're probably going to be interested in doing it
but uh, yeah, we'll see because the um
What they'll do
Is they'll because most normies you go and see this stuff. They don't care who the director is. They just go by movie title
So like oh direct. Oh joker two joker one was great. They'll we'll just get that again, you know
Can you say he's open to it I think uh, walking phoenix said he's open to it
Yeah, that's what I heard. Yeah, uh, oh you sexy beaches loves you how's life
Pretty good. Pretty good. Life's going pretty good. Yeah, even busy doing all that good stuff and work done
Having some fun
all the good stuff
Before I go back to work if any of you could be an avenger, what avenger would you be and what is your team name?
Not efap also hyrax
Hello
I'd probably go with one of the super op ones like unironically captain marvel. Maybe captain marvel
Um or thor pretty cool to be thor
But um
the
Because you know like the idea that you're like, oh, what about iron man? It's like well
You don't need to be iron man to get the iron man suit. So
While you kind of need to be thor to get thor
Yeah
And also if you're iron man, then you have to like the infrastructure and the business and like iron man is probably like busy
All the time every day ptsd should be tough to deal with
Yeah, so
And we're talking strictly powers. I feel like
Some of them there there is maintenance and upkeep when it comes to the quote unquote powers of
Uh iron man, so that would be work legit work
So probably yeah some op like captain marvel something like that scarlet witch maybe or and the team name would probably be tism
And I would make it stand for something significant
Titan of titans of intergalactic space magic
There you go
Yeah
Tism we'll put in our spaceship
Um
I'm about to start my snow shift. But before I go, when's your next video coming out rags?
Um, i'll be doing dog bite stuff for a while until i'm finished up with um
Finished up with this main channel video
There you go and uh, you've already said before it'll it'll be
Yeah, it's just gonna be really long. It's gonna be really long one episode
Uh
The first episode you missed my super chat from april
9th 2018. Please read it. That's creepy. She if you fuck it would be it. I know you are
I don't even know if I could access the ones from april 9th 2018 with the way the youtube stupid system works
But um, yes, I surely will uh peanut butter mayonnaise and banana sandwich. Yes or no?
Uh
No, i'm gonna say no for me there's too many different things at once that's that is a no
I'm gonna freak out my tongue and i'll have to calm him down so he can't be doing that
Um, how many monitors do you all use and what res?
I have three monitors. Uh, they're all 1440p
um
It's just a wonder of it's just a matter of as years go by you you start with
Your one and then your cheapos
And then you get a new monitor replace it and then he just
If you either if you don't sell it it becomes a secondary monitor and then eventually they just uh kind of match
I
start out with um
well
Console gaming so I had a tv
It was it was a relatively nice tv for for the the time I bought in and then when I first got the first pc
And a monitor the tv became the second monitor that I switched out for the console whenever I wanted it
Then I bought the next pc and that primary monitor became my secondary monitor and the tv died
I had two standard 1080p monitors
and then we fast forward to now and I have
those two monitors at my left and right or the center one is a um
Uh 2k monster, I guess short hand which uh, holy shit
so
Upper resolutions on monitors. I didn't realize how amazing I can get in terms of
Use like so much detail in space. It's just like whoa
Um, but yeah three more. Yeah, like it's like having the way to describe people is like it's like having a bigger desk. Yeah
Uh, it's kind of weird because I didn't expect it to be this useful and it's super useful
Oh
So useful and for working. I
Honestly, my perfect setup might even be four monitors at this point because I end up getting a lot of stuff
That's like mainstay on one monitor. So like discord and um
uh youtube
sit on the left and right and so the center then becomes the editing software or the video game or the
Um, like obs sits on the right when i'm using it. But yeah, it's um
invaluable when you're uh working as an internet job to have more than one monitor I die if I have a one one monitor system anymore
Uh, I can't see anything help
Oh, and like rag said is pretty cool because as long as you hang on to those old monitors
They can eventually stack up and become useful secondary ones
Oh, yeah
You just like i've got three
And some people do more. Yeah, the monitor on my left is i've had this one now for I think seven or eight years
Yeah, and you could buy just if it's not your main monitor that you're like playing games and stuff on you can just buy cheapo ones
That are just large enough to match the rest and boom. It doesn't have to be anything fancy. Just a simple monitor, but
Oh, yeah, i'm really glad really really glad I got him
Then it becomes like a space issue. Like I don't have any room for more
Okay, mola left right it's pronounced as star tees I've been saying a status
I don't know if that's right or wrong. I'm gonna trust this man a star tees
A star tees is fine
If I remember to pronounce it that way though, I might not uh ray actually is better than any lord of the rings character
You don't believe that and I know so no one would believe that
Uh rc not a porn series massive
realistic war series books went into depth on the moral ambiguity of using slave clone troopers
Uh jedi bad for using them
Okay
Sure, that's definitely a potential aspect of that. You know, it's not explored in the movies
It's just a given and you don't really think about it. But yeah, I could definitely see how that would be uh
a moral
issue
Would have been cool to explore in the main movies. Oh well
Just how many times can diabeto vote i'm gonna go ahead and assume numbers don't go that high
Literally
Um and he votes for himself
Rights of self in uh, not my proudest fap
Oh
Only proud faps on efap. There's no such thing as a shameful fap. No matter what
Um, I don't know man. Just keep it to yourself. Don't tell you you'll be fine
Gay
Jay nigdius creamy nuts bunk. Oh my goodness
Creamy nuts bunk. Oh my goodness
Uh creamy she said i'm giving out n-word passes in the chat. Does anyone want one?
Um, that was like a few days ago though, so I don't know if he's still giving them out
I hope the offer is still good. I already got some spares
Uh death to the mpla mpla is the big gay
What's the mpla
Um
Let me see
Uh the people's movement for the liberation of angola
Unless it's a different idea about
Angolan well, I don't know. I don't know anything about
Politics so i'm gonna have to say that I don't know who i'm with
Yeah, I don't want to think about it, but okay
Um, i've had some time to sleep and you're still going
Yep, we have that effect on a bunch of people. Oh, no, they know how to defeat the bts insulin
Yeah, did it happen in the storyline?
Free hong kong epstein didn't kill himself. Hi rags
Hello
Dear rags, what will be the next rags reviews be?
Hmm, uh, probably i'll probably finish up. Um
I'll probably do fallen order next i'll probably play that a bit more. Um
That or modern warfare
I just need to finish it. Yeah, I just need to finish it. I need to um
Because i've got all my footage and everything ready. I just need to
Do it, but I think i've got my thoughts together for it. I got enough footage and everything
Um
Tell me quick in that a jab in the head
Don't know what to make another jab in the head
Tell me quick in that a jab in the head
Tell me
Oh, wait, is it lyrics is that supposed to be like lyrics? Yeah, what's the song?
Hey, uh, the smash mouth, um
Ain't the jab in the head or something
I can't believe uh all-star by smash mouth but like what part?
I don't know
Oh ain't that a kick in the head
Ain't that a it no no like
Instead of ain't the sharpest tool in the shed is like something something jab in the head or that's that's probably it
I'm following. I don't know
This is a show about internet wizards intended for incels
ret do nagons
Very true wonder how game of thrones would have ended if spyro was in it
Um, I think he would have been morally against what happened in westeros game of thrones. I don't know. I don't know
I don't know much about
Spire is a good. I don't know much about his spiros
Yeah
His moral system and his code and all that more. Didn't you try and kiss monday and matt once?
I I don't remember this event
Um, i'm gonna go ahead and and deny it until further evidence is brought forth
Uh
No, that was cinema roberto
Okay rags, I don't think I can eat that much me want to bet
Oh my
Anyone else get a wholesome vibe of hanging with a group of good friends and laughing about movies or watching efap?
Efap feels like a family to the heart. Oh
You can definitely laugh with us good good good friends in chat, of course
Posting the smiley faces and happy things. There's never any negativity here
Okay, we would never attack someone's opinion
Disgusting from creamy. She's nasty of us
From creamy see the from creamy she super chat seen from lilo and stitch lilo stitch. Uh efap means family
Um, didn't tulsi gabbard say ohana doesn't mean family. She said it means something else more specific
like uh
uh, I hope
You have like good times to you or something like that. I can't remember but I just find it funny because I was like, oh my god
Lilo and stitch lie
Does it hurt that's a fucking super chat
Live efap and efap meetup when could be chaotic
Not out of the cards forever. I mean, I don't know how a live efap would work. We would we cover a video?
Oh man, I don't even know
It would maybe be like a I don't I don't know I have no idea
Maybe we could just have topics something maybe yeah, we can come across a bunch of topics. We'd prepare get stuff lined up
Um, I hope anna heard reacted to some of ra's chats
I think she did she came. Oh, yeah, she came back on like some awkward stuff when when she came back from the last one
Um
Just had a person try to tell me that the new star wars were good because ray was strong with no explanation
Did they really argue that that's a plus?
All right
Whatever floats your boat as they say
Um, here's all my money long man missed most of those streams
So i'm looking forward to hearing bob's terrible take later today. Hi rags
Hello
And yeah, it'll be out very soon within 12 hours ish I think hopefully
I was right flight from norway to india is shorter
Oh, I think they were saying that the stream would still be going by the time they were landing I think
Um rags have you slept with hairy butt women?
Um, no
No, not really sometimes around the uh
Front a bit, but no, not really
Most women take care of themselves to at least that degree I don't though i'm i'm pretty
natural looking right now
Just wanted to say please watch mr. Robot unreliable narrator inspired cinematography
Ralph the movie maker did an excellent review of it
Uh fringy advocates for that a lot. So yeah
Like apparently it's pretty
I just watched the crown season three and now I understand why we shot our saar family in a damp cellar in the middle of nowhere
Do brits love royalty?
I don't think you'll find many people in britain who say they love royalty
Yeah, I I guess it's just like a
historical thing like a
british tradition in a way. Yeah, but if you ask any citizen, what does the queen do they probably be like, um, I don't know
she
waves
You know, yeah, she waves
Carry over tradition, I suppose
Bob can't say shit because you were talking about scooby
Yeah, if he said there's people waiting hours long think about we'd be like nope scooby do
Uh first super chat going to bed, but i'll catch this on moolah. Hi mauler and massive guest rags. Hello
Hello just came to add my snake milk to the stream. Goodbye and don bless
Thank you very much or viper milk, I guess you could say that was
What's everyone's star wars tier list from best to worst you may decide to include disney's fan fiction films or not in the list
So mine from best to worst goes empire a new hope return of the jedi
then probably episode three
Then rogue one
Then we're into murky territory, um
Rob phantom menace and attack of the clones. I do uh rate above tlj and force awakens
Yeah, rise of skywalker is probably going to be the fucking dead last with the way those leaks went if
If yeah, if the leaks are anything to go by then
Oh boy
Yeah, I think that pretty much answered the question
Yeah
It's gonna be it's gonna be the worst that the leaks are an accurate representation of what's actually
They it will be the worst. It will be the worst
Um, do you have a different list or do you want to carry on?
Um
Like what my list would be of worst to our best to worst. Yeah
Hmm. Yeah, let's see empire a new hope
and then
Are we just talking the mainline episodes?
Yeah, and they said you can include disney on if you want to or not and it did
It seems to be just like what you like the most
Yeah, I guess empire's first new hope is second
then episode six
then episode three then
One then two
Then
The force awakens then the last jedi
and then i'm gonna
Yeah, i was gonna say are you gonna would you include rogue one and would it be above one and two?
Um, yeah, I put rogue one above no
Yeah, I would put rogue one above one two
Um, I would put solo
as
between the prequels and the sequels
And assuming episode nine is like it is in the leaks then it is at the very fucking bottom
How exciting that'll be
Um very bottom re diabetes getting his powers in the deep fryer incident. Did he gain orphan powers?
Oh, yeah, because apparently his parents died in a deep fryer accident
It depends on how old diabeto was in that moment whether or not he owned his own blood. I believe that is our law
We haven't decided exactly what age you own your own blood. I don't know if we're going to go with like 18
21
I don't know complicated
Uh diabeto I was in the camps his uncle. It was fat camp diabeto. I was almost put in a gas chamber
Uncle, it was a sauna diabeto get off my case. Okay
Yeah diabeto is very overly dramatic undeniably
It's rewind time gotta watch from the start have this for the long man. Thank you very much
Just woke up still going on good missed my train to work bad waiting with you great
P.s. Hello from france by a frenchman. This is my first super chat. So take this
much for all of your pps
Oh, no, sorry for all of you and then pps
Uh, also hi rags. How would you feel if I named my dog?
If you named it, oh, that'd be really great. That would be quite an honor
That would be really amazing if someone did that I think that's a very uh, that's a very nifty thing to do
If you do it's got some state of power. It's a good it's a good name. It's a good name for a dog
I was gonna say if you do it, uh
You should totally get like a little uh caller and and show and send a picture in
Oh, yeah, that would be amazing. Yeah, i'd love to see that
Um
Please don't make fun of hitler
oh
I mean, you know, we're just having fun with hitler. It's fine. Um
Excuse me. What did that backwards teacher say?
uh
If you're oh, no, it wouldn't be referring to the professor
um
I'm not 100 sure i'm afraid i'm not sure which one we're referring to
Uh, finally super chat's available in latvia. Thank you for hours of objectively good entertainment. Also. Hi rags
Hello
cool
What's the difference between a chickpea and a cabbage? I've never paid to have a cabbage on my face
Oh
Uh, I like that that's good
Hey guys, this is my first super chat. You guys are awesome. Keep it up ps. Hi rags
Hello
Thank you very much. Yes. Hello
Rags your subscribe star discord link doesn't work super glad you have a subscribe star so I can support you now though. It doesn't
Oh, thanks. Thanks. Yeah, um, I really I do appreciate that. I figured there'd be some who don't want to you know, use patreon
Um what i'll do tomorrow then is I will put a new link up there. I guess it either timed out or I
something I don't know maybe
I don't know. Maybe I set the wrong options for it, but I will replace that
link tomorrow
Um, but yeah, if you if you do want to support but you don't like patreon
Then I do have a subscribe star as well
Yeah, it's a good alternative
Um, you're gonna give people that option, you know advice on where to find movie clips for videos
youtube
Be surprised on just how much of movies are uploaded to youtube and the way it works
Is that people upload clips and then the original copyright holders monetize them?
So they get the money
But the clips are available for download and reusable as long as you stick to the copyright limits
You can actually uh use it that way
Uh, kick j thinking of a funny super chat message is hard. Also. Hi rags
Hello special program to record and edit for videos
Oh, I use vegas 15, um
Yeah, other than that, uh, maybe some nifty stuff to have would be
Light shot to get really quick screenshots
Um, I use shadow play to capture video footage
from the screens
um
That's really that's pretty much the three stuff the three bits that I use
I mean like I have itunes
Have an account. Yeah, I'm pretty much the same. Uh, I use audacity to record though
and it's because I really like the noise reduction feature and
vegas has one that you can do but it involves like downloading a
uh
Extension that's like a part of audacity in the first place. So I just I just don't bother with that portion. I'm just like, yeah, but
noise reduction on audacity is
Blows me away every time with how good it can be
um
Ray is an orphan explains everything
Well explains her villainous nature, but her power, you know, I don't see how it explains that
I went to sleep and woke up and you're still going
Yeah, it's funny that that's from the previous stream still
Um, yeah, I want a star wars that's just palpatine the best character. I don't even care what he does
I mean, it would be cool if it was done right to have a
Star wars feel all about him personally, but I don't know. I don't think it would be good
Yeah was like we're at the point now where I just don't want disney to do anything with star wars stay away, basically
uh
Which star wars characters would you like to talk with impregnate and remove from the universe?
Talk with impregnate remove from the universe. Um
Like current
current star wars timeline quote unquote or is it just
Choose from whoever you want from wherever you want in the star wars saga
So when it comes to remove
I'm going to say like it would be like ray. Yeah, probably right because rose tico doesn't have as much of a damaging effect in this world
Yeah
Yeah, probably probably ray. Um
Talk with luke possibly maybe yoda. Yeah, I'd probably talk with luke talk with I mean you tell
I mean hon, he's probably seen all kinds of stuff
Yeah
Something yeah, something like that. So what about impregnate there's impregnate
probably
Probably be either
Well, what's weird is that you have to because
If you impregnate someone then, you know, you should
You know be you know be with them and all that and you want the best for your kid. So you have
I I mean you have padme right? She's pretty good looking. She's a queen
You know, so she just dies of sadness sometimes you gotta be careful
Yeah, but like the kid would be raised as like a prince essentially of a planet and you're like damn
It would be in the empire rule though. So just be careful
Well, you would still probably even then you would still probably have it probably still be really good for him
because he would be it probably use a system where you have each planet had like a
Planetary governor of a sort, you know
so they'd still definitely would do well for themselves and the booze really quiet and they
I don't know what they'd ever really do with noveau. It would probably be imperial controlled in
Like name but in execution probably nothing would go on there
uh, because it's just out of the way
either that or
I mean i'm trying to think of anyone new but it's just like
Uh
And then if you go with you know lea of course then you know, she's a princess too, but she becomes a very high rank
what do you think
Because you have to know that 30 year gap between these movies
You're like, well, I assume that she'd she'd be a politician and she would be a galactic war hero and stuff like that
And so now it'd be a very illustrious
you know kind of you know title if you had a
Kid being raised under that and they they'd do well for themselves. So I don't know probably one of two
I don't know probably pad somebody suggests impregnating holdo
No, no, I don't want to impregnate old ass laura dern oldo
Oldo yeah, no, I think padme is a strong choice. Someone said aunt buru. Nah, if I could I mean i'm sure she's really nice
but I wouldn't I don't know if I'd want my
my child being a
If I could choose between yeah
eventual king of a planet or
Poor moisture farmer on tatooine one would probably be way safer than the other two. So true
Uh, impregnate hochi someone's saying
Also, I guess this person included their own choices it was talk with luke or yoda
impregnate a soca or a yala and remove ray from the universe
I don't i'm not familiar with a lot of the um, so good. Um, I know I don't know a yala a yala though
Let me take a look uh star wars a yala
Uh, oh she's the blue she's the blue. Uh
Ayala secura. Oh, I think that's pronounced a la secura
Uh, a la secura. Yeah, they've um, I guess they spelt it a little bit weird on the super chat
Yeah, no, she's uh, she's she's neat
Yeah
Um, she had a brutal death in episode three
She got shot. She did
Several times they kept doing it too
Make time. Yeah, they want to make sure they confirm that kill
Oh
Look at it like random pictures one of this one showed up. It's just like uh, i'll get it too close to uh
Unsafety there
I like how they got layers fucking bikini. Oh
Wait, this can't actually be part of the show. No, I don't think so
Okay. Yeah, that's that's weird. That's like
it would be this might sound weird, but
This seems more scummy than if they were just naked
Uh, how would you argue that
Well, this is like it it it's almost like it's being
The the other one you'd be like, yeah, it's just porn and you're like, yeah, it's really important
But this is like it clearly
Like it's straddle like it's straddling that line like it wants to be clean
It wants to be safe for work, but you know the intentions beneath it
It's almost like you're trying to hide that it's supposed to be like titillating in this weird way and it knows it's just yeah
Uh
Wait, does apple band do sound effects too? Wait
Uh, I don't know
I think I might reference something we were talking about but I have completely forgotten at this point
Pop in briefly to leave a super chat come back like nine hours later
And the first thing I hear is my super chat. Lovey long men and women never change
Steamboat in captain marvel two. Where are we riot?
Oh steamboat
That was that was something steamboat. Oh my goodness
Uh planks captain marvel did have steamboat nick fury
Oh nick fury's the steamboat captain marvel. I understand. Oh of this marvel cinematic universe
Captain marvel at least in captain marvel's film. Yeah
Oh lord a cap marvel
Oh
Hashtag justice for steamboat. Hello efap 62 cast kick j he's not even here. He's been kicked
Yeah, he kicked himself
Um to be fair rod
Wait to be fair rod doesn't have a roof big enough the movie bob
I think a couple people have said that they're concerned that you'll bounce away as well
You know, I don't think there's a roof that can support him
Like the idea he's climbing up in the roof. The house is going down. I'm sorry
He's got to stay on the ground floor like raw sure he's he's got the the backing of the egyptian, you know
infrastructural
Systems to create this very high roof
But will that be like if they can build a pyramid surely they can build a ramp strong enough to be able to
Roll up movie bob slowly, but surely that's a big question roof big question
Oh
Uh efap best girl anna j longboat maulers crush aden or rags
I'm pretty sure it's rags
As what now efap's best girl, of course i'm the best girl
Got that boy pussy
Uh steamboat unbridled praise when
you imagine praise
Uh
That feeling when jl should be here because steamboat is here exists and starts laughing
I'm curious what a reaction would be. Oh j longboat's reaction to steamboat. Could you imagine?
She would laugh if fucking asshole
Hey j check out
This new cool fun new character
Started streaming 11 hours ago mauler feels yeah
I know it's funny because if it says 11 hours ago, then you know that it's only going to be 40 minutes more
So you're like, oh no
Uh, how many streams could you say that about?
Uh ron needs to upgrade to lava since his roof can't fit movie bob
Yeah, we did talk about that. Uh throwing him off into lava
The thing is that implies then that ron might be in a dangerous place
And you know last thing we need is to melt our roof thrower. Like we can't do that
Um
Good day to you good day to you
Hello ras manna is volcano adjacent. He is a god
Volcano adjacent. All right, i'm not gonna deny it. That sounds pretty neat
Uh, wow, I woke up and you're still going. Yes
I've got some free super chats. Here's one. Thank you
Yay, uh, you could count movie bob's chromosomes on 33 pairs of hands
I think I get it. That's a lot a lot of hands
That is a lot. Oh my goodness
As a person with mental issues I had to walk out and take a breather at one point
I still like the movie but got real for me. Love y'all. Hi regs
Hello
Hello. Yeah, and yeah, that's fair enough. Um
It does see it's pretty raw that film. It's not uh pulling any punches
Oh, i'm late to the party and it'll be sunday when you read this but thursday was also my birthday
So that's at least four birthdays today. Holy shit. We did an efap when there's four birthdays
That's the birthday efap
Um
Slept at the start of the stream woke up and it's still going we'll be sure to watch the vod and draw up any new memes
That come from this efap
Uh, we'll appreciate it. Thanks stuff
Yeah, that's this nicos the one that makes the the cute stuff. Well the cute stuff that isn't pikachu stuff
Oh, okay. I gotcha. I gotcha. I got you. Uh went to sleep five hours into efap just woke up two months ago
I would have been surprised you're still going but now it seems to be the norm. Also. Hi regs
Hello
Please stop doing 12 hour streams twice a week. I beg you. I have a life. This wasn't this never the intention
We stopped at six and a half today or seven. I think
Wait, where did we stop? Where did we get to super chest today? Was it five and a half hours?
Six and a half. I can't remember
Wait, it was something like that. It was a long I was about to say we can test from when we were
Shad left, but that doesn't make sense because he stayed for a good
Good while actually, so
I don't know exactly anyway
um
I'd expect ryan johnson to be great at modern twist of the knife. Also. Hi regs
Hello kick j and hi all my n words. It's sunday when you hear this
Actually, no, it's monday for me right now, and I think it's monday for you as well, isn't it regs?
It is um, it is now I believe yeah two in the morning just about
Oh, wow, this is still going also. Hi wags
Hello
And the last super chat of episode 61
Remember oh my god, that's lyff it cuts off
Which beads we are now at episode 62 super chats
That didn't take a while well
Ready uh, yeah
We did it we did not over though
It's not over that. Love you rags amala. Why thank you
Jabo said he might want to make a video defending ray. There's something to be said about boulder boy attempting a sis
sisyphean task
um
Yeah, you're not getting into it. Of course, it would be him to
Try he's got to be like a contrarian. Yeah, that's his new angle to try and take the
He's looking for the hot take the one that he gets right. That's against the grain
But it's not gonna happen for a long time, I don't think
Um
Stop talking about my wife. Yes. That's a good reference. Hello
Hello take youtube's money
Thank you youtube, I guess
Great timing. Thank god and don you guys started now you'll still be streaming by the time I get off wick
It's very probable
Yeah, it actually will it's safer to say that than not these days. Mm-hmm
It's shad man. Wait, yeah, it's the it's the other shad the better shad
What's up guys? I'm loving the amount of ephaps we've been getting lately bless the dawn
Yep, uh, the intention is to now actually have the week break as per usual because there was two two week breaks
You see and you can't have too many of them
Acceptable you said two two I did
Hello my australian n words
Yeah, that's applicable
Do you believe space is real?
Um, I do actually I believe space is real. Yeah, i'm convinced i'm gonna take that position
I know it's controversial, but i'm one of them pro spacists
And not only believe it's real, but I want to convince me otherwise
I think space is neat. We should uh, we should make friends with it or something
Mm-hmm
My 20th birthday is tomorrow
It's great to get to listen to my favorite jebbs for the last few hours of my teenage hood all hail the dawn
I'll hail the dawn
J free apstein didn't kick himself
Hello shadowversity any software you recommend i'm gonna save that for mr. Chad
Last efap three hours four minutes and 48 seconds mauler on movie bob
This is where his big climax is gonna be obi-wan
I felt a great disturbance in the force as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror
That would be what would happen
That's what he does. He makes voices cry out in terror
Beware the false ra and his olive green visage
I was assuming that ra takes multiple accounts in case he gets like temp banned for saying naughty things or something
I assumed that's what it was. I can't imagine that would ever happen. No
Fuck a doodle do my brethren
Hello to you too
Hello maula streams for 30 hours a week and doesn't know how to kick j. Hi rags
Hello
Um, i'm gonna look into whatever the hell's going on with the way it now works with streaming
The only thing that i'm confused about is letting me set the thumbnail
Uh before I start streaming it seems to only let me do it once i've started which is annoying, but I can get used to it
Hmm, uh throw shad off the continent with a light stone and a dark stone
Why would we do that?
You can stay on australia we're not using it it's fine
Yeah
I'm sure it's a fine place. Hello me and my friend genesis of androzani did a
Fan-made spin-off of efap called eda where we covered two
Doctor who video essays of pure tism. Thank you guys for being great inspirations. May the dog be with you
No, absolutely. I'm really glad that you guys decided to you know, start a podcast and start talking about stuff
That's really good to hear go for it. I'm glad you did. I hope you pause a plenty and uh
Yeah, dr. Who video essays. I don't think we we funnily enough. We technically covered a bit of one
I think it was vox that mentioned dr. Who maybe I can't remember but yeah, not really covered. Dr. Who j is our resident. Dr. Who nerd
Um your uh pauses be many and your frames be elotism
Uh j if you want oh the stone things apparently a reference to shad's book that makes sense
Uh j if you want to friend me on facebook, I have screenshots of brooks tweets after all. I am a supporter of efap
Um, I think he he made a thread on twitter if you can just send him to him through there. Um,
Probably work out for him. I'm not sure what he wants to do with them. Yeah
Yeah, I mean
Might be good to keep it handy in case you ever need some more nobs tism. Oh, yes
I've had stream overload so I can't stay long, but i've enjoyed the last efap mini
I was actually taking notes from the vids commentary on filmmaking
Well, uh, yeah, like we we tried to get into a lot of discussions just about options
You have as a filmmaker compared to what chris apparently went with
Um, it wasn't like malicious that video. I know a lot of people might interpret it as that but I mean
I think if he had made something pretty good, we would have
Been talking about how good it was
In terms of like achieving in certain crafts and stuff
Um, it's just the writing was so distracting. It was really tough to like
Break into talking about some of the great stuff in there and the cutaways to those movies
Oh
I saw people on the comment section being like oh, it reminds me of uh channel awesome nostalgic critics skits and I was like, oh
Uh, yeah, yeah, it did even I got that kind of vibe from them
Um
Any thoughts on pokemon sword and shield?
I have not played it and I just know that people are angry about it as far as i'm aware
fighting over some stuff
I've I've heard that they frustrated that not enough of the pokemon are in it and that the graphics are terrible
But i've also seen that a lot of people are
Pissed at those arguments sort of thing. But yeah, i'm not really into the uh discussion. I don't know much about it
Yeah, I I don't know enough about pokemon or especially this game in particular. I just don't know
Not my area
Um, what do you think are the three best objective animated movies of this decade?
I'd say they're the lego movie into the spiderverse and inside out
Um
If that includes stop motion, I would consider kubo and the two strings that film was extremely good
But I might be biased because the stop motion was just amazing. I really like the lego movie
But i've only heard good things about it. Uh, but thinking about animated stuff. What about uh, what about coco?
I mean, I thought coco was all right. I don't I don't i've already forgotten a lot of it. I thought it was fine
Um, i'd have to think about animated movies. Um, the last 10 years. I wonder if that includes like up
I can't remember when that came out
Um
Let's see
Uh
Uh, let's see spider man into the spider this is very good. We still need to watch that
Um
Let's see tangled I really liked that was 2010
I liked fantastic. Mr. Fox
Up is 2009
Ratatouille's out of the he's out. It's out of the uh
Out of the running. I mean wally is out of the running as well
Yeah 2008
Up is 09
Ratatouille's seven
Um
What about big hero six did you like that I didn't see it
Oh, I liked it. I saw it. It's not like
Great great great, but I liked it fair amount
Uh, I liked wreck it ralph. Uh, oh, yeah, that was good. Yeah
Well, man, i'd say stuff like tangled and everything like that
I don't know if I
make it best best
Yeah, there'd be a there'd be a lot to go through but um, there's some good choices we've been over yeah
Yeah, um, I ship sexy
I ship sexy
sonic here
Uh, I ship sexy tiger j with mauler the human gas mask
Okay
Hello there rags frog man hipster shad and mauler
I guess hipster. Oh, hey
Yes, hello
ij
Appreciate that i'm just certain of it
The long man grows more powerful with each passing moment by the will of the don his power will encompass all that is
All that was and all that will ever be as the spider's prophecy foretold
Neat
as the spiders
Thank you all for the delightful content
Um glad you're enjoying it. Good stuff
Mr. Shad if people are to buy your book, should they get the hardcover?
Or uh as a sword like weapon this also ends with high rag like weapon. Hello. I'm gonna keep that for mr. Shad
Uh shad what's your opinion on fallout's shish kebab I shall keep we're gonna have a lot of shad questions I imagine
He got past like eight of them when he came on and I was gonna be like another
15 or something
Hi rags
Hello, hi shad, please cover trope talk on efap it's a bit of a tism
um
I don't know anything about trope talk. I don't think but I mean
If there's a particular episode I should be made aware of or something. I don't know
Um, also, please support the koalas. I hear they're in a rough spot. Yeah fricking you tell me about that
Sounds terrible if they're actually bordering on extinction. Thanks to this forest fire. That's crazy
Um
That's another shad question, how does it oh
That's another shad question. The um acme nukem sword. Oh, I guess because in reference to the uh,
nuke sword we brought up
Yeah, the nuke sword
Oh, sorry, there was an extra part to a question i'd asked you and it's kind of amusing thing
Like the question is I see in my notes
You were asked a question and then it ended with also what's your stats on koreans?
My stance on koreans yeah, that's a question
Yeah, that's fine, I guess all right
Uh nuke sword a sword with a nuke for a pommel
I mean, yeah, we got a visual representation of such a sword nuke sword a sword like nuke
Could you guys watch and react to the pilot of has been hotel on youtube i'd like to see an efap mini and you guys's thoughts on it
Uh, I mean it's not impossible. I just don't really know anything about it. So a couple people have been referencing it the has been hotel thing
Um
Get blue bullet barry and top hats in here for a four horseman of the pc pocalypse reunion
Yes, i've been around long enough to remember that show
Oh, yeah, it was it was it was it was I don't know if it was meant to be a regular thing
But no, maybe sometime. I don't know don't don't hold your breath, but maybe maybe sometime
Uh, hi molar rags wolf and honored guests been through all the old efaps on 15 currently. Thanks for all the laughs
Love you all
Hope you're enjoying very much. That's some history right there liking them
Let's go back
As soon as we get that other episode out we'll be up to 63 episodes of efap
From a long way and by normal podcast standards, we're probably past 100 at this point in terms of like
One to two hour shows if you know what I mean
Actually, I could probably find out efap dot m e
If the count is currently up to 17 days and 11 hours
So
17 times
Four
Plus 11
I'll divide by i'm gonna be generous two hour podcasts
So rags, uh, this is just a rough estimate, but apparently we would be on episode
210 by normal podcast standards
210 how long for a normal podcast? I did it by two hours
Yeah, well, hmm
Well, we are we're certainly not normal no
Terrifyingly unnormal
We're freaks
also the um
The decorations on the efap.me website
Got like a little christmas tree with all different guests on it
And the presence of meme references and it just has jeb stop here as in like the fountain
And
Wonderful little details. I also love the graph. It just has the fucking 50th episode of the 29 hour spike
That was something and funnily enough we're almost past the halfway point of getting to it again. Well, I say that
75
Not too far away from pathway to episode 100
Um, wow, this is certainly slowly but surely one thing at a time
Edging our way closer you have to do some prep for that. I imagine that there needs to be something special happening in an episode
was 100
Hard to believe it's already been, you know this long since 50
Yeah
Time flies. Uh, wow, this is still going also. Hi wags
Hello
Wait, I oh there we go. Sorry. I'd actually read that one out before I ran onto the wrong page
Uh
Hello mule shire, um, all right now my fourth movie heat thoughts
Don't know if they mean their fourth favorite movie
But it would make sense because heat's pretty good
From what I remember. Anyway
Um, have you seen heat rags robert deniro? I've
No, I haven't seen it. No, wait al Pacino's in it. It might not be robert deniro
Let me check
Do
Yeah, i'm not crazy, okay, sorry for a second I thought I'd imagine the film
um
Also, jeb nickelson. Do you guys think that she thinks you nick her in the butt also high rags?
Hello, i'm not sure how to interpret that question nick her in the butt
nick
Yeah
well k i n
Uh k I think it was
Can I k I I don't know what that means. Oh, sorry. K. I
Knick nick her in the butt
I have no idea what that means. I do not either k and ick. Yes
Uh
I don't know. Uh
I don't know
I have no idea what that means
All right, um
Oh shit first time catching live. Hi rags
Hey, hello
geode
That's fair
You guys geode you guys make batwoman enjoyable. Hey
We do what we can just trying to make the world a better place
hard to believe some people watch it
Unironically and seriously for entertainment purposes because I think it's good. There is a fan base. That's insane
And apparently like I was you know, I was just reading the the discussions on it
They think it's the best of the cw shows right now. So
What does that say?
The others must be abysmal. Could you imagine like whoa?
Um, but yeah, you know, thank you. I'm glad you're enjoying it. It's
It's a disaster, but yes, um, it is a disaster, but it's our disaster together
Shad if lightsabers existed they'd be instant person exploding weapons me
Shad you're doing a bad job of not selling his weapon to me
um
the thing about uh
Exploding people if it gets I mean because lightsabers get put up right up to people's faces and um
Yeah, I don't think yeah, I don't know about it's making people explode. I don't know about that
I guess
Um
You have to look at like
There's some crazy in-house logic maybe about how because you know
A lot of people make the joke about how what makes a lightsaber stop growing like you shouldn't just go on
Like what how does it know to be a sword length?
Stuff like that. I don't know how like yeah, how does it stop?
You know at what point does it you know, how does it make the beam stop that sort of thing?
I don't know. I just assumed that they know away. They can do away. I don't know. Mm-hmm
Um, uh warhammer 40k is the only way forward brothers
All right, i'm okay with it pretty neat
Hello shad
Hello, I I just came on about lightsaber exploding weapons
Well, i've actually got a couple of questions ready for you as well
Oh sweet. I might still be a minute or two just while kids settle down. You'll probably hear them in the background
Um, okay
But just a note on the lightsaber thing
The problem is is the shrapnel you explode someone and they explode into you and most likely kill you too
They're dangerous weapons is your point. Yes
Yes, yes, they're they're very dangerous weapons
Um, bastards are so uncivilized
If they functioned, uh, keep going with the regular super chats i'll be ready in a couple of minutes. All right. Good stuff
But i'll be listening and just meet myself. So the grandmas won't be too bad. Mm-hmm
Um
Lightsabers can't melt steel
Steel beams. I mean, yeah, you know, it's why gone put it in there. It definitely melted those
flattened out door style beams so
undeniable truth
Rags, we will be pooping together soon crotch to crotch eye to eye
I wipe yours you wipe mine with the door open meet my demands and it stops
No, that is nasty. I will not acquiesce to your disgusting
Uh, we have we I I don't know
Chad when you're alone in your house
Do you poop with the door open?
You know I like to
It's like no one else is there. So
I mean the fitness rags the guys the guys talking about with people being there. So
I
I
I
I
I can't I always close it always close it. I don't know
Even when it's just me right I always close it
Yeah, I don't I've never thought about it. Yeah, I don't really care
I don't think about whether or not if I know there's no one in the house. I don't think I could give a shit
Well, I guess I give a shit technically
Literal
Just on the note about the uh, the quite gotten melting through that door
That was also a blast door which is supposed to be like very resistant
You know laser fire and all that stuff and we would expect to actually be far more resistant than regular steel beams
So i'm just just just adding that in there as well
I was always curious how it works when that happens because like
The light comes from the handle right like it's coming out. Does it
get stopped
or does it just go straight like
I'm assuming it's like almost as if it's like a flame
like a laser but really long
like a
Supposed to be plasma contained in a in a force field and and that protects the hands from the intense heat
But it but if you touch anything
That's basically something crossing the force field to be exposed to the plasma and that's when the heat
you know exchange and and damage is dealt and things and so
That's why it would also cause the instant explosion because it's that the heat would still transfer once you touch someone
So they wouldn't have protection from the force field
Yeah
Yay, it's live. Remember to read shad his super chats. I did
Eye rags and kick jar jar the jet plane. Are you looking forward to the kingsman prequel next year?
I don't know
No, okay
I hope people who want it to be good end up getting what they want
But I don't really care. I side down after the first one
Like I like the first one. I mean the second one kind of annoyed me a lot
Um
Jenny is so angered by efap and you drink her tears. May her hatred of joker be her undoing
Oh, she'll be fine
um
Joker was just another interesting sort of um
Um
It's kind of like tlj just a different way
Made people really want to argue for why it was bad
But they came up with a lot of really weird reasoning and she was just one of them. She'll be fine though
um
Oh the guy wanted to clarify rags that on the toilet it would be groin to groin
I I can't remember if I read that out. You just you just want to make sure you got that
so like
the boys would be just
Touching and rubbing up against each other while we uh, it's like the legs would prevent you from being able to do that
While sitting but what do I know be able to fit over the hole?
I guess not with that attitude. You got to just get one of them big thrones, you know
I don't want to talk about it
So this person's strange don't entertain them
But they're strange. I am a slave to reading out these messages. I do my best to filter
Yeah
Just to add a question about the whole jenny thing because the last um super chat brought that up
Did has anyone else like responded in a similar way where they like?
Tweed out the stream that we you guys we have responded to before
like
Oh the jenny thing. Um
Never like that. I think we've had instances of creators sort of vaguely recognizing that these things have happened
Yeah, but like full-on community white knight assault squad
It's never been anything like that
It was kind of hilarious these people
They gave us a lot of laughs
Did seem rather disproportionate to the other people that we have are reviewed and responded
Creators that do watch efap got annoyed because they were like, why are people saying it's sexist?
She's like one of the three women they've ever covered that makes no sense at all
And obviously a lot of people just didn't know that they didn't know a lot about you
but it must have been bizarre to have been told how sexist and in sally and
Ridiculous this show is like it's just guys just talking about women and then being like wow
It's got a hundred thousand views
People are watching this
Hey, you know the demographics like what's the view at the average view rate for?
Um efap uploads and stuff it'll be i'm assuming it'll be huge
On moolah, you mean or like on the second channel like the average amount of views the podcast gets yeah
on moolah, yeah
Let's have a look. Yeah, I mean after the after the tens of thousands that it gets from just being live the re uploads
on mooler
Man, they could be anywhere from well. Yeah, just the average view rate duration is what i'm interested in. Oh rotation
So like how long they watch how long yeah how long people watch for?
um
I can't look at it yet because i'm in my other account and I don't want to swap them while i'm live streaming in case
something goes wrong
Um, okay. Yeah, i'll have a look into it. That'll be interesting. Uh, the average amount of time someone spends watching efap
What would you guess that as rags i'd probably go with
Four hours. Well, I wonder if it if it counts any pauses
Well, because we we keep a pretty steady a pretty high number
Pretty stable high number of watchers
And then it just eventually it does of course start to you know trail off
But you know four hours ish is kind of when that number starts to generally go down
But it does depend on what covering who's there and what's going on. Oh, yeah, and the fact that
we're now on the
Least like this is 2 a.m. Typically in most american countries and it's a weird day. So this is i'm surprised. We've got 16,000 viewers when
Nobody should really be around right now
This is like i'll be i'll be right back. Give me just a second
um
Another efap on a second day for a fabulous day. Kalu kalay
Okay
Excellent. Yes
Shad I freaking loved your book
Oh
Thank you, man, that's awesome
That is pretty cool to hear like yeah, you know, we had a reference to it earlier
Someone said to throw you off your continent with a light stone and a dark stone
I saw that one when it was posted. I was like, oh that's a that's a book reference right there
That's when you know, you've made it shad people are referencing your media
It's pretty cool. I gotta admit it and the positive reviews are just awesome
Yeah, if you ever want pie, yeah when you get positive reviews like that on something you work so hard on
That's pretty hot
Uh, hi massive
I'm on my way to see nick offerman the most interesting man in the world would really love any feedback on my game of thrones intro
I tweeted you
Moobs lorms, uh put a lot more work into it
Game of thrones intro i'm uh, you can always give a shot tweeting at me again. So I don't remember seeing anything like that. Um
A lot of things slip through the cracks for me
Uh, I don't remember seeing anything game of thrones intro wise
But uh
perhaps
Well, there's some memes. I think i've missed on twitter actually
If we have enough time I will do a bit of a few memes at the end
But i'm not sure we'll be able to read all of these before we run out of the cap
We might be able to we've gone at a pretty pretty good pace
um
This time around i'm just cycling quickly through twitter to see if i've missed anything
You
Frozen two
I don't even know. Oh
Yeah, just give me a
Also, yeah i'm still with you by the way i'm just muting it when i'm not talking so the background noise
I'm with you for now, but
Oh i've been up for i've probably worked around six this morning. Yeah, i've probably been up around 20 or so hours
I won't be around this long
You guys can only ask that you do what you can
What is this rags come on
Oh my god
Is this an original work the guy who drew oh my god, I thought that might be original
That's hilarious. Okay. Sorry. I'm just uh
It is a nightmare for me. I get like a bazillion notifications. I just have to scroll through and try and find the images mostly
um
But I miss a lot as you as you're aware and people get upset and i'm like i'm doing my best
uh
That's funny as well
Sorry, i'm using memes. I will I will I will try multi to ask you. Um
Hey mola, when will you watch the meme videos? I made two really good ones for you
It's not copyrighted but check if you want. Hope you guys like it. Uh, so i've got a backlog of them
i'm still planning on doing um
Uh stream
Efap mini i'm gonna i'm gonna sort out. I said I would on the last stream
But then I got um, I had to turn up on two different like
Creative related streams and then we've got this one after this one. I'm gonna have some time to build sort out. I swear i'm gonna do it
We'll be able to hang around so I eagerly await the moola archive also for fuck's sake
It's not even december yet lay off the christmas theme also watch jojo rabbit
Well, I mean we're five days away from december
I think it's fair to be like preparing for it now other people gave it to us
That's true. And it's amazing fan work regardless of the christmas theme
It's almost time to put up the christmas tree in my household. So
Uh, will you will you be doing a review of something good this year like an episode of the boys also
Thanks for another great year. Uh
Not even if I was intending to review something good this year. I don't think it'll be done by this year
If you know what I mean
um
Who knows what 2020 will bring? I do intend to talk more on the main channel about good stuff
um
Shad thoughts on the alacard versus trevor duel in the castlevania show
Oh haven't seen it unfortunately can't comment as of yet
Uh, but i'll put it on the list. So i'll give it a look
Yeah
Uh rags has a suspicious amount of feminine curves
It's true
spider oracle on don's leg. Oh, yeah, we did spot the spider. Oh, yes
um
Check out a channel called white light in particular his video on darksiders, too
He does much the same thing you do with your videos. Mutely. You might like the guy and get him on here
Uh, yeah, maybe i'll have to check it out
Here is my tithe brother
Jay boleky
Jay barat and send my love to wags
The love has been sent send send your love to me
Send me your love mauler. I pressed the button. It's gone to you. Have you not gotten it?
No, let me check my you send it to my email
Oh, here it is. Yeah, I got it. It was in spam. Oh, okay
Gosh google. Ah as the spiders foretold
yes
Shad any chance of a collab with arch warhammer focusing on 40k fantasy fortresses or weapons
Well, i've actually never heard of the guy before um
so
Don't I don't know as of yet. Uh
Anything possible for the future, but uh, i'll try and check him out
There you go. Uh rags is friends of them. It could be a setup there of some sort
Yeah, well not eventually. Yeah, what what what's your uh, what's your assessment of this content there rags?
Oh, he does warhammer stuff. He um
Does a political thing here and there but
Yeah, I like him smart guy
Yeah, like really likes his war hammer
Hi, I I can appreciate having a passion
There you go, um
Noah wasn't an alcoholic. He got drunk once in jen
Oh, yeah, we uh, you corrected that right wasn't noah. It was um, yeah
May have gotten lost on myself a second
Okay, yeah, that's fine, um
This picture shall be the centerpiece of the inevitable efap museum
Oh, yeah, and ironically and it's not the only one but that piece that we showed like I would totally get that printed in like
High quality and frame it if I had like an efap room it would totally go in there
That shit was great
Uh, dear god. I want this as a 4k desktop wallpaper, please
Yeah, I don't I don't think I have a copy like a direct link to the original. The one I got is a link to a discord
Uh reimage, but yeah guy who made that um, sir
Was what was it again? Sir nickelson? I want to say so
Um, but if you're watching this, um email me the uh originals if you want so I can uh,
If you'd like, sorry and I can well
Put them in places. Let's say
Um, who doesn't love high res versions of everything?
And yeah, uh the email you can use if in case that's the thing is attached to my about page on the uh, youtube channel
The owl's name is bilbo
I can't seem to remember what we said. I was name is bilbo. I didn't know that
yeah
I'll um
Well, that's from archangel. I don't know if um
That's just it's boob. Oh
Sorry boob. Oh boob. Oh, okay. Yeah very close
Okay, now i'm offended that ryze referenced here but not bayouin hashtag bayouin deserves recognition
um
There might be some form of a dragon reference on there. Um, but also might not be the thing is ryze. Um
Has evolved into a meme of his own, you know
Not necessarily because like if you had bayouin then when you have to have like all the artists
And then, uh, I don't know if the artist would include himself it starts getting complicated. But ryze is quite the meme
Alt right youtubers list breads. I have a card for that
Oh, yeah
What is the milk yield of space rhinos compared to earthling rhinos or space manatees asking for a friend?
I don't know. I don't know. Isn't it two to one? I heard it was two to one. I'm gonna go with shad on this
I don't know enough about it. I'm gonna defer to the expert
Everything's a terrestrial rhinos. Yeah
I don't know would they need more milk if they lived in space? They wouldn't need as much energy to float around and stuff
Or if they lived on planets they use the milk as a form of propulsion I heard because they need to shed mass to move
They squeeze their nips and they just yep
That's how it works
That's what they should have thought of in tlj to get ahead of you know being chased, but no
They just have a bunch of tontons strapped to the back of their story. I mean
You know prove it doesn't work I don't think you can
This is time time
Shad I see you read invincible a man of culture
Oh, yes, I got the anthologies in my in my shelf right behind me and uh, oh great stuff invincible really good
It's a comic book in case you guys are wondering by the way
I mean, yeah, it makes sense. Uh
I wonder if the pits on tulsi gabbard's face are deep enough to hold him. Oh my goodness a money shot
Wow, um, isn't she considered like the most attractive for her campaign out of all the people there so
Yeah, i'd say so
It's nice of you to think about giving her a donation
very kind yes
Uh breath of the wild's weapon system is terrible you're welcome to try and change my mind, but it's still bad
I know the main complaint is the weapons break all the time, right as part of the system. They want them to like
Enter a state of needing repair all the time and it forces you to play with all of the weapons. I know that that was a big complaint
But I haven't played it myself
I don't know either heck out of me
I mean a weapon broke that bad like that often i'll go back to the maker and demand my money back
Even like the best sword in the game breaks and has to recharge whatever, right?
awful
It's a travesty
This money brought to you by youtube. Thank you
would you say, uh
What would you say is objectively a great christmas special as well as your personal favorite?
I like jingle all the way and it's sort of so bad. It's good
As do I but actually the strong christmas movie
I mean, can I say die hard
die hard
My mind went to like uh, I guess a more traditional christmas one and i have to say I kind of enjoyed elf
I'll out. Yeah. Yeah, I liked elf and as rags just said night before christmas is a good shot. I remember for christmas
The original santa clothes with tim allen out the front one
Never saw it. I did but I can't remember
How good it was or not?
Oh, it's been a while since I watched it, but I have good memories
Um brooks not even smart enough to say j equals himla
Yeah, and j has a striking resemblance to himla. That's true
Um, this utter muppet thought the marion luigi rpg series is all action and no strats another bad case of seeing screenshots equals
Yeah, i've played it
Oh, that's about arlo
Um, yeah, I haven't seen like obviously uh fringy said he's seen a lot of his videos. I have not
Are a long man good
Yes, we'd like to watch live but survivor series is going on we'll watch on later, but there is a super chat for you
Thank you
Oh, thanks. Thanks. Uh, you enjoy it later when you get around to it. You'll be watching this in the future
Is he a reviewer first or a cookie monster first?
Oh, no
Free hong kong
There's a super tismy take on starship troopers by generation film a thought for when you have sargon on
Sure, we'll have a look at that. Yeah, absolutely
And yeah, is that the same group that did generation tech?
I don't know
Um
Yeah, hong hong kong just had their elections and uh, the pro democracy party
They uh really stole it. Uh, the pro beijing party basically got wiped out
and the pro democracy party did
Really really well, so they have like a super duper majority now. So very very good news
Wow, awesome
Free hong kong and thumbnails do not touch china
Absolutely. Fuck china
You know that meme do not trust china and it is
a little bit
Well, I I do not like china china remakes everything worse everything china touches just worse
It's actually quite interesting how high china is up on the human rights violation
And uh, you know most countries it'll slip it passed right on by because don't care because of money
mip chinese money
Brooks not even smart enough to say oh wait, how did that happen?
There we go. Can't wait to listen to this tomorrow while I do homework, but for now i've got to play
E-broc galactic with my college friends
Oh, I hope you had a good time
See that's what I mean about trying to find out what the average
Listen or watch time is for uh, you know efap ones it's uploaded because like when i'm playing a video game
I usually will chuck on one of the more recent efaps and just listen to it in the background for hours like in
Generally, I get through the whole thing eventually
So i'm expecting the watch time is going to be crazy
Because some people say yeah when i'm at work while i'm driving around while i'm doing stuff around the house
games
Yeah, there's there's actually a high demand for long-form content
Especially when you just need something that'll last ages to unwind in the background. That's why podcasts are getting so popular
Yeah, because what happened was like everybody was parroting around youtube that the way to do it is
10 to 20 minute videos you have to do that for the algorithm like that was a thing that everyone kept saying
Yeah, there was a time
There was a time when that was the thing that the algorithm really liked and really promoted
I don't know what it is now and i've never i've never changed for the algorithm
No, I think the algorithm still preferences longer form content because I tell you what after I watched the first efap like on
on mooler mooler
That one
um
Every single video in my recommendations was efap
And i'm not kidding if you I go to video and you look on my sidebar
It was like 100 percent efap. It's like youtube registered how much I had watched it was like give them more
And just pushing it at me
Yeah, like uh, because
It was I can't remember how the rules exactly work algorithm wise
But the ones that people remember was that the um the animation people got killed by the whole
You need to have multiple uploads regularly that are like 20 minutes
um
And then let's plays like flourished like crazy. Let's because that's like markiplier pewdiepie jacksepticeye. They all exploded
um, but yeah, and then there was a turn to retention instead of
You count I guess or
Uh, however exactly this worked i'd have to there's probably somebody who's kept track of this better. Um,
Well, yeah, they try like i've gone to workshops and heard from you know, um, youtube insiders and all that stuff
And they uh, one of the things they try and keep track of is
View sessions how long someone stays on the platform?
And so if your video is the first one they watch
But then they go on to stay and watch several more youtube videos after that
You will actually the first video will get a kind of boost or benefit because youtube like the algorithm notices that
and and registers that this is a video that is help keep helping keep people on the platform and so I think with
The efap content because it keeps people on the platform for hours at a time because it's so long
Yeah, I I know for myself the algorithm just shoveled it in front of my face after the first few times
Was just funny. I imagine it was such a uh monkey wrench to the algorithm. It's like 12 hour video 12 hour video
What's happening?
And people are watching it like they're watching for a very long time. I bet um
And so yeah
There's interesting stuff
Any gaming headset recommendations my old headsets falling apart and I need a new one this one was given to me though
So I don't know what to get or what's good
I mean I use a um
Uh, let me give an adh adg one and I really like it
Um, it's got a pretty decent microphone that comes attached with it though. I use the standalone for the own channel and everything
um
But that's what I use
A th adg one i've got a really good one
But I barely ever use it because i'm lazy and I neither set it up sometimes
So I just use cracky little headphones that are more comfortable. But anyway, it's supposed to be a good one
I can't even remember the brand name
Is your your headset's not wireless is it rags no mine's wired all my stuff's wired
Um also hi rags
Hello
I'll make six million cookie with only 12 oven in short time cookie math. No add up
Well, i'm not good at cooking that sounds like a really popular baker if he's having to make six popular million cookies
I don't know why anyone would have to make that many
Cookies, it seems a little that seems kind of crazy
But I guess if your cookies are that good and everybody wants them and loves them that much
I don't know. I guess they just get baked
Uh, yo is my favorite colored guest fring boat howdy
Oh, we didn't tell friggy about steamboat damn steamboat, oh my goodness, he needs to know
Oh, yeah, we're gonna have to get those screenshots that ben posted
Or uh, fantastic stuff. Oh and you I guess because you found out yeah, it's not google images. We'll be fine
Yeah, just a lot of google images. Is this the shad man?
Not that shad man. This is no hard. No
How many how many times have you had to?
Uh address that
Rarely ever because it's mostly self-evident rather obvious. Yeah
Uh, do you fellas think dead space could be adapted well into a film?
Yes, I think so, but you need someone
Who's good at stuff?
Yeah, because a lot of it is um a lot of it depending on where on the go
There's a lot of different places where a story could take place
But it would very much be a um, it'd be event horizon ish style
Uh, I start more towards the beginning and then it would become more like slasher violent, you know spooky body horror
um, but there would definitely be a
You know a multiple character slowly, but surely
succumbing to the you know, the the the
psychosis
You know the the the I guess the the mental
Tra the mental trauma of the marker and its effects and how that and how that
effects individuals over time the things that they do and
Keep things mysterious. But yeah, it would it would really make a great movie. It definitely has a lot of movie potential
I mean we say movie potential, but I mean dead space has still a lot has a lot of game potential, but unfortunately, I don't know
What's if they were we're gonna see another dead space
We'll see how that goes
Uh, thanks for all the great content. I couldn't make it through work without y'all
Do we get a lot of comments like that?
a lot of that
Pretty sure the content people just yeah
In the background just check it on the plane
oh, and I think there's a um, someone's making like a spiritual successor to
Uh dead space called negative atmosphere, right? Yes
um
And apparently in an interview with game informer the glen showfield who was the creator of dead space
He said he would love the chance to make a fourth installment
uh, so I imagine if he had the
Uh, I mean visceral they had plans for dead space for they thought about some things, uh to some degree
and if they could
I mean if if ea would just let them make the fucking game that they wanted instead of saying it's got to be a co-op action
thing well then
I would really like to I really really like to see that because
Yeah, I mean dead space one and two were great three was fine. But man, the first two were great
Just let them make a game
I love the first one so much
Uh, but who would want in a fight sarah connor from t2 or ripley from aliens both are on neutral territory
Okay
Depends what point in time you pick for sarah when you say neutral territory, do they have their weapons?
If they don't so if they don't have weapons i'm pretty sure it's sarah because she's like
been training like crazy or working out and stuff while
Ripley is still just uh, sort of a transport worker
However, yeah, that would be my call on it if they have their weapons
The good chance ripley wins because she's got the hyper advanced stuff, but maybe maybe not. I don't know. It's kind of tough to call
A lot of those specifications that come into that one
Um, hi mauler rags and guests. Hello
Hello, I recently debated if movies can be objectively bad and I was told bad writing doesn't make a movie bad because of other elements
Making them good eg action. Please respond to it and keep efapping
so uh, this the response we've said beforehand with this one is that um
almost everything in a movie in terms of the crafts that involved with it are all attempting to
Present or project what's on the paper that was originally there as in the script
Everything is attempting to get you that information in different ways be it visually or audio
um
And so if it's bad from the get-go those things
Doing it. Well a crippled
like by the foundations
So what would you say about?
Jackie chair. Well
Back in Jackie Chan's heyday, you know, um his movies because generally bad acting
Um plots were very thin bare bones and just really there as an excuse for the action, but the choreography is amazing
Choreography was just phenomenal
um
and so
It's interesting because like I kind of view those types of movies
On a I compare it to a very different standard
because of that
um
And the standard that i'm putting it against is pretty high and they fulfill it so well that well, they're brilliant
but in terms of writing
It's most often not very writing in them
If you if you talk with somebody like that super chatter, um, if you can get them in the door
In a sense that oh, so if if you can get them to admit that you can have objectively bad parts
Of a film then I think you've done a lot just to get them to accept that
Yeah, you know if we can whether or not you take the whole film, but don't don't worry about
Getting them to do the whole will the film as a whole is objectively good or bad
Um because people can draw that line anywhere
Tlj if you can go and like if they won't admit it's a bad film they'll admit it's poorly written just take take the w
Yeah, because that'll you know, that's one of the parts and like, okay
Well, how do you assess it's poorly written?
How do you assess that the scene is poorly?
acted or poorly constructed that's like little pieces get them
To accept that little all the parts that make up the film can be objectively bad
And that does a lot
Yeah, um, that's why I more so these days will say writing instead of the movie as a whole but I do
uh
Very much consider movies to essentially just be a method in which a story is delivered. So it's like
The writing is incredibly important
excellent
Singular aspects that don't actually pertain to writing. It's gonna be pretty tough to argue that it like
essentially redeems the entire film
Um
But it wouldn't be something i'd want to ignore like in the jack channet angle
I i'd want to definitely talk about how amazing the choreography is assuming whichever content was being discussed
Yeah, if you had a reviewer for instance who wouldn't who wouldn't say that a film was
Objectively good or bad as a whole
But would say each individual part could be as obsessed. Uh, uh
Assessed objectively, right then that would be totally fine with me. Yeah
Because the whole thing the thing as a whole is a lot more complicated than the individual parts
How they fit together and mesh together to to assess that objectively is probably going to be
pretty tough
Um
Chief's awakening had no art style controversy
Oh
um, i'm assuming that's in relation to what uh points
Arlo was making and um, I don't know enough about thief's awakening to be able to comment on
The comparison. Oh, yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if this happens
I mean they happened with prince of persia too, right years back
They did one where it was like a celly shaded kind of
Thing or whatever gay every once in a while a game in a series will try something new or do a different style
Probably happens all the time mechanics with god of war got a lot of people arguing of whether or not uh,
God of war should or shouldn't have the mechanic set that the new ones have or new one house. Sorry
Um
Okay, uh
Dear efap, would you rather throw j off a roof to save rags save rags or throw quinton off a roof to save tonaled?
I'd throw quinton off a well wait
I would I don't see how that's why would I choose?
Yeah, why would I choose to throw j off to save me?
I get to save tonaled and sacrifice quinton or save rags and sacrifice j i'll just go with the second choice. Oh the
Yeah, quinton
The choice is lose quinton or lose j like I guess i'll lose quinton. Yeah, only quinton
Um, hi rags. Love efap glad to see it live you good dog
Hey, hey, glad you really like an efap and you might not see me for much longer. It's
It's 240 i'm about oh
In fact, I think I think I don't I think I gotta get to bed. I can't i'm
I'm already starting to
Yeah, I just I need to sleep. I need I really need to sleep. I want to
It's all good. Like I said, do you mind just uh, you mind muting instead of leaving?
Yeah
I can do that. You bet. Yeah, I can uh, yeah
Yeah, ha ha so I will I will catch everyone later
and I will
Um, yeah, let me know if there if there are super chants that I will save them for me or anything
Yeah, I I don't want them to go. Um
On unanswered, so I will see everyone
Later, maybe i'll see you all tomorrow or whatever or tomorrow. It's fucking it's already tomorrow
I will see you later on
Yes, sir. I will
farewell
Bye. Bye doodles
All right, uh
So, uh
I I can look at my notes and just pull out. Um
We got some I got some shad questions. So, uh, all righty. Chad, what is your opinion on fallout's shish kebab?
Oh, okay, that's the fire sword, isn't it?
Um, I would actually need another look at it. I I don't have a
Good enough mental image of it to comment in detail on at the moment
So I would have to defer until a proper analysis. Do you want to look it up on?
Google knobs answer some other things while you're doing it or sure
I'll do that very well
uh
Hey guys, love the podcast been watching for a long time now and love what you guys do keep being awesome
Thank you very much
Pokemon, okay. Sorry. Yeah, go ahead
Sorry. Yeah, i'm just looking at now. Um
It's basically just a a rusty blade that shoots fire along the edge. Um
Intimidation, I wouldn't really like
The burning would be painful
Uh, but it wouldn't enhance the cutting capacity much at all really
So I don't think it wouldn't be you know
hugely
More beneficial in fact if the if all the extra mechanics throws the weight off
But and it looks like the weight would be about double with everything that's attached to it
Probably be a very unwieldy sword as a result and not necessarily that much improved either. So
Yeah
Wouldn't necessarily be great
Weight's important with swords. Oh, yeah
Yeah, swords are much lighter than people assume and as soon as you oh, yeah
Absolutely. And if you get a sword that's double the weight than average it is suddenly massively unwieldy. So
Yeah, those are my thoughts on this
Um
Shad if people buy your book should they get the hardcover like I did to improve its effectiveness as a sword like weapon
Oh, absolutely
Uh, I would I would recommend well, I would actually recommend both the audiobook and hardcover
I generally do this for all the books. I enjoy I enjoy listening to an audiobook most of all
but I love owning divisible copies and you'll see them in my um bookshelf behind me and
And yeah, and when you're gonna own a book you want the hardcover because it's more weighty
It has more presence and I get more money from the hardcover as well. So
Mm-hmm
Hello shadow visti any software you recommend for writing novels and keeping notes where it can be a bit tismy sometimes
Lots of info, but I got it back
Well, the two ones that i've recommended my channel is both uh campfire but campfire had a
Upgrade called campfire blaze. That's the one you're going to look at or world anvil. And so there's pros and cons to both world anvil
Generally looks to be a better utility for world looting
um
and
But you certainly can do writing on it, but campfire
Blaze is more structured for a writing assist and if you're wanting something to just help like with sentence structure better than I
a
normal spell check
Grammarly i've heard good things about
um
I'm a little reluctant to try grammarly because it can be a bit too specific on its recommendations of your sentence structure, which could
Actually change your narrative voice too far from what you normally would go with
But it's also important to just learn what good grammatical sentence structure is
But also to keep the structure the way that you would naturally write
So it can be so grammarly is a little i'm a little on the fence that one
But those um, those are the ones I recommend at the moment
There you go. Yeah, I I was gonna say, uh, I couldn't forget remember the name, but I remember the uh,
Talking about the world anvil one
Yeah, they're both really really good. So, um, it's just like
I think they both have or world anvil has uh
Most of its main features are free, but you don't get
Actually, I don't know if it changed that so I won't really comment on any of the features in the case of updated things and things
but um
But yeah, I'll try both and see what uh works best for you
Um shad have you read wizard's first rule by good kind
I have heard good things of it. I have not read it myself yet, but I but it is
been reviewed in a very high regard and so it's on my maybe list like I
Unfortunately, I don't get too much time to read
But and when I do I tend to like to go back to the ones that I know I enjoy
I'm on my my third or fourth listened through the wheel of time audiobook. This is so good
um
and uh
Because i've i've tried several new books like recently and few have grabbed me as well as the ones that I know
Really good, but I think the next thing i'm going to be listening to
is the star
Skyward the sequel to skyward from in sanderson. Um, and so that's looking good
Um shad, how do you feel about the different styles of lightsaber combat and lightsaber pikes?
well, I have a lot of views on that and I think I need to save it for a whole video because
I find there are a lot of assumptions that people make when they're trying to write a pop culture kind of fighting style
um
And they get a lot of things wrong in regards to what actually is a fighting style
and and it seems like with the jedi ones that
The each different style is really a different stance a different guard
But a guard is very different to a style of fighting
um
And and the guard that you pick is usually the position of your sword only in the beginning of the first engagement
And once the engagement starts you're in a completely adapt
You go to a different guard to a different guard all the time
You never revert to the same guard position
And so the assumption that you know, the jedi ones is like this is the guard position like that
They present these styles by guard positions like no, that's very wrong with how sword fighting is done
Um, and so that that's that's worth a whole video that i'm gonna um
I want to research a bit more so i'll go through each individual supposed style
But at the moment just from what i've uh looked on from a cursory glance is that
They didn't understand what a sword fighting style is at all
Oh, yeah, here you go. Um, so we can expect a video on that eventually, yes
indeed
Uh pokemon eight is to me what episode eight is to you final fantasy eight also sucks. What's up with eights?
Or it means they should have died a long time ago
they
Uh long man bad long man good here be cash gutty woo
All right
Free super I know it's very it's very talented very kind at the same time wonderful stuff
Uh maula don't know if you saw my tweet 100 more violence at the frozen two screenings and joker just saying
Yeah rags mentioned it
Quite amazing to be honest, uh didn't expect that but hey
I'm gonna go see um
Well, yeah, I might be going to see uh frozen two with the family in about a week or so
So i'll let you know if there's any more machete. Um attacks. I should take a sword with me
Be ready for it. Take a giant machete with you
Gosh swords are more than just being giant machete smaller you hurt me
Oh, no, i'm saying take the sword but also take a giant machete in case they demand a machete on machete fight
All right. All right. All right. I withdraw my complaint
They might pull a bit of an honor system on you and be like, hey can't be using a sword in a machete fight
You'll be like, all right. All right
Oh, you're what?
Sorry this there are like actual real machete fights online that you can look up and they are savage
I would recommend like they're they're like real world full-blown violence and they usually like it these things in either
I don't know philippines somewhere in asia or africa and where just there's these full-blown machete fights getting whipped out
I was like to the death
Yeah, I get well, you do see people well, they will have to have died from it
But it's instructive to like I actually the reason why I researched this was trying to I did a video on how deadly swords
Really are in real life and one of the more accurate points of reference you can look to to try and find what real
You know slashing wounds how debilitating they are is actually
modern-day machete fights because we have visual record of what and it what's
interesting
Is how survivable cuts are and that's kind of the thing that I point out in my video is that
In one of these machete fights you see a guy get like hacked
Heaps and he's still alive for a good portion of it
Just getting and they're like doing these full-blown wide hack swings with these machetes
Of course, he would have died eventually, uh from it. But yeah people don't understand
What type of attacks from a sword is truly deadly?
That would be an instant kill and what ones are survival and and when it comes to cuts
It's actually kind of surprising how how how I guess functional you can maintain yourself with certain cuts
But then a smaller cuts in other parts of the body can fully debilitate you like, you know
Slash upon the back of your wrist and it takes out
Yeah ability to grasp your sword it's kind of game over right there if it's cut above your eye
The blood will just flow down and blind you and so
It's all very very um, uh
I guess a context space where where the cut is landing. There you go. Sorry
Not to mention, um, your adrenaline will be running high, right? So
Oh, we keep you in the fight to a degree
Mm-hmm. So yeah, if they if they
You know like just nab an artery
Uh-oh
Yeah, because the other thing is people expect swords are going to cut people in half and some swords have the capacity to do that
But not every sword does and so it's all very very, you know
Depends on the situation in half wouldn't it?
Oh and the sharpness of the sword has a massive impact on this as well
And so there are so many variables to take into account
Um
Finally got a job. So take my money you beautiful bastards ps you made borderlands three suck for me
Don't buy it. Keep up the good work and I will hear this when I watch it later
Thank you very much
And uh, sorry about borderlands three, I guess
Um, hi rags. Love your unbridled rages. I i'm sure he'd appreciate that
Uh quick take on someone using head cannon to explain why layer communicates with only poe in tlj opening battle
Being pose button cut layer off from the rest of the squadron. Should I even bother with them?
It doesn't make any sense. Um, and it also calls into question
Who moved the bombers in place because all poe did was tell them to attack
It seemed like they were all set up anyway, and then you have the problem of um, they're nowhere near the main fleet
And like they had poe returned to the fleet before they could leave
The bombers have to do that too. And if so, they were never gonna make it anyway
so like there's a lot of questions about that opening bit and why is it that the commander would have a button like a
Station a design specific button to cut off the capital ship from every other ship
Like in communications, like why would that be the case? That'd just be weird
and if that's not the case, uh
Then why couldn't she talk to the others and
If she chose to talk to the others would her authority outdo?
The like her authority is general which is usually for ground troops, right?
Would she outdo it at a flight commander captain style?
Admiral whatever person like I don't know. Should she be doing it?
Surely his judgment should be respected especially because he's in the field
There's so many questions and there is there's so many things in this that whole movie which is just baffling at this like
Yeah, I just don't think they care they're gunning for the uh, the payoffs the emotional
Things and they only know how to do it in specific ways, I guess which is just to make things not really make sense
So whatever doesn't matter
Uh
Um, it's just depressing because it wouldn't take too much thought to realize how dumb some of these things are
It's like well, we just did a cloaking scan to detect the ship
Just think about this, please
That's the end of throwaway live. We're like we use our uh,
Scad to fight the ship and then some some random troopers like hey, why don't we run that all the time?
Then he's like we only have enough battery to run that once per week. You're like, oh
Okay
Imagine that was the case for yeah, you know
Wow
Rags release the final rage of game of thrones, please
uh, I know that's directed at me and it's on the cards for like
I know how I would go about doing it to get it done
It's just that there's so many other projects I want to do and honestly with my episode five video
I really felt like I tackled all of the significant characters and how they've been potentially ruined
Like there's more to say about how episode six ends for sure. It's just that
I really felt uh
Quite completed after I did episode five video because that took ages and I got so many like points out that I really wanted to
Um specifically game of thrones, I mean like the but I still do want to do an episode six one and possibly more for game of thrones
I don't know. But yes apps in the future
Pineapple on pizza is wrong
Yes, very good. Super chat accuracy. I'm glad I'm glad he understands this is this is good
Uh more let's stop being a fairy and a big gay. I that must be directed at rags
Oh, fuck that I like pineapple on my pizza no more super chat money for me
Heresy, that's that's just the sacrifice you got to make you know, no more super chat money in exchange for
Establishing that yes pineapple pizza is the work of the devil
You
ruined my jeans
He's the myth of an apocalyptic event
That's like the most meme-able thing ever. I mean that is the pineapple on pizza is the signs of an apocalyptic event, isn't it?
It is it is
Um
Thanks for making the workday and commute entertaining and far more interesting. I'm glad it is
uh good stuff
Does rags believe in free will because if so, you can change opinions by choice
I don't know that he does believe in like 100 strictly free will I don't I don't I don't know if we've covered that yet
or not
But that's a huge topic and we nearly got to it. Uh in the beginning of this stream
We nearly got to it nine hours ago
Uh weird logos like a sword and no fallacy shall stand
and
Wield logos like a sword and fair and no fallacy shall stand
Oh, sorry wheel wield logos like a sword and no fallacy shall stand. I got you
Like logic I guess and um
It's uh, yeah point now, uh, a lot of people can detect fallacies without knowing what their names are like, um
People are pretty good at it like the couple were brought up today. He used uh, no true scotsman about um
What was it a surrealism? It's like it's not true surrealism. It's like what the fuck is that?
Um, yep choice is conscious. Oh god, we're gonna be getting a lot of uh,
Really deep stuff great choice is conscious belief is
Subconscious you don't control your subconscious directly. You can influence it belief is not a choice
It's a result
A result of choices
You could there's an argument you made that this is semantical
I think it is
Ultimately, it's just kind of how rags defined belief as opposed to how I defined it
And if I use his definition, I'll probably be in agreement. I've just kind of defined it differently, I guess
um
And even just with a stupid chat then is I read that it's like again
It's like it's a result of choices, you know, but yeah
Yeah, I was gonna say we can't it's not gonna be
First of all rags doesn't even get to speak on a lot of his uh his points
So I wouldn't want to reopen it in that way. But also I don't think we have the time to reopen the subject
It's true. We don't have time but rags left. He doesn't get his say that's that's that's on him. Yes. He is forfeit his say
That's right rags amola. Thank you both for helping me smile and laugh through one of the worst times in my life
I started watching your channels then found efap. Thanks again. Love you guys
Yeah, man. Uh
We always love to hear the people are enjoying the show. Honestly
Good stuff despite the fact that it is a million years long. Oh, yeah, we calculated that by average podcast lengths
We'd be up to like episode 210 now
And by normal i'm in two hours, so yeah
Happy episode 2010 guys or 210 not 2000
It's interesting how efap just has an easy listen polity to it where it's just a bunch of mates
Just chatting and hanging out and having fun and you know and having intelligent discussion
So there's a very you know intellectually stimulating side to just the casual nature of it. So it works really well
Oh, yeah, there's loads of just you know, no one's immune to being challenged
Your perspectives will be will be out
I just
I'm waiting for the time until I have a horrible take in a video. It has to happen sometime, right?
Like just really really bad
In fact, I should probably I think I I have some that i've taken down because I now disagree with
So I wonder if I should we should dig some of those up and just do a e-fat review on them
If only you'd put out a video saying joker was an awful film
Yeah, I should have done that. Hey
It's awful because I did not enjoy it because if ever you you had like a take we wanted to cover at efap
We probably just ask you to come on for it as well
And you can you can give us insight into the creation
Indeed watch memento people can be aware of lying to themselves then forgetting to have done so that is belief for a greater
good or inner peace
They can be aware of lying to themselves and then forget to have done so
But that doesn't represent belief though, even if that was the case in certain instances and circumstances, so
Um, I wouldn't say
It contradicts the rule
Yeah, even that I would need to try and yeah, I would need to break it down and try and understand what it's saying
Is it like oh because he writes messages like do not trust do not believe his lies
And so he believes that despite the fact that it's not actually
Based on valid information. Interestingly
Because uh, memento is pretty cool. Oh, well
Yeah, check it out. It's very unique. You watch the film backwards
Okay
Um, it's like the only film of his kind that kind of what's interesting is um that and prestige prestige is a film
That essentially. Oh, yeah. I've been prestige. Oh, yeah
That's like watching three shorter films all at once that all connect to each other once they hit the end
I love prestige amazing shit. It's like one of my favorites memento less so but you know, it's cool. Um
So rags, oh i'm gonna have to save that one. Oh and there's a question for wolf as well
Um
I like my women like I like my coffee inside of me. Oh my
Okay
Off to goal tend in the best objective sport ice hockey you masses need to read attack on titan and berserk cheers
I mean
Could have my watch
Yeah, watch a decent chunk of attack on titan. Um,
I probably will might read berserk because uh, I do like realistic fantasy
Even if it gets really dark and I know like um berserk gets really dark. Um
But that has come with some good recommendations, so
Maybe and best objective sport being ice hockey. I don't even mind if that's the case
Go nuts
Yeah, i'm sorry. Like i'm not really interested in sports to be invested enough to have an opinion on so
Are we all just sleeping slaves to fate
ucheriati
That's a reference I don't quite get it but I completely agree
Um facts versus feelings with an innate judgment is scientifically a matter of personality type not necessarily choice
Also sans is in smash by the way, um good stuff
Facts versus feelings with innate judgment is scientifically a matter of personality type not choice. Oh, I think I yeah
that um
like
personality, um uh tests where you know, they certain they get ratings for agreeableness and
um a disagreeableness on all these things that they generally have found that uh certain character types, um have uh
Preferences general preferences. I think that I i'm not an expert on this, but I think there's exceptions even there but they find general trends to
people being far more
Feelings based in determining what their opinions are versus facts and stuff and that's it's interesting science that stuff
um, I don't know how
final and completed is but I have heard interesting things about it, so
Yeah, well, how would that apply what we're talking about? I don't know I need to think about it more
Rags is barney fife see emancipation proclamation
I don't know who barney fife is. Oh
From the andy griffith show
Well, I didn't watch it so I don't know anything about it but uh
Fair enough. Fun fact pineapple is one of the few foods that you can eat that can eat you back
This means that people who like hawaiian pizza are automatically interval, right?
The pineapple can eat you
Is that because of the absence I know when you eat too much pineapple like you have to sting your mouth
um
Like we gave our kids some pineapple when they were young and I think our younger say too much and he was like
Howdy rags he would say hi
Springy, it's not about free will but rather the moral foundation theory
Some people are not capable of thinking in a certain way you peeps look it up
I might do at some point
This is a lot of topics, you know in efap. Um, we do cover these things every once in a while
But like to get too far into one of these things without someone who's like extremely well read on it. We can only stay in like
layman terms while also discussing it on a rather
uh
on on a tier without citing like
studies or
specific
Lines of thought or world views and stuff and even if we did do that that we would then need to explain it in case
Any guests or audience members weren't quite following
Like isn't really this isn't really that show if you know what I mean
While you've got a lot of places on youtube we can totally find explorations into this stuff
Yeah, and uh, i'm always a little hesitant, uh when people take certain studies like that and draw
too
Much of a categorical conclusion when because what was that super chat saying certain people are incapable
Of thinking a certain way was that some people are not capable of thinking a certain way
yeah, so
you know like
I generally found the people
Like and you could say this anecdotal but when people really set their mind to it
They can overcome
A lot of you know barriers to learn certain things that they need that is really important for them to learn
And i'm not saying that's the case with everyone. I'm just saying a decent amount of people and so to just say
That's so categorically. I was like, uh
I don't know, you know, i'm just a bit more cautious about
Such definitive statements like that
Um, I think free will is absolutely an illusion no matter what you choose
If one were to question your choices with why after why you would eventually reach the conclusion of I don't know
That's just what I want what I want to do
Yeah, but there's a contradiction just in the very structure of that thing
Even if well, no matter what you choose by merely stating that you've acknowledging choice to a certain level
Even if you try and say that there was no way you could choose anything other than what was uh
What you were kind of coerced by circumstance stuff like that to me. There's actually no true
You still have the freedom to use the a or nay. There's nothing forcing you
um
and even if you could say I i've only chosen a certain way because of
I'm stopping now. This is that um, that's a rabbit hole that I was gonna say you're gonna go to pre-determinate. Yes
Yeah, let's end that before
No, people knew that we were heading toward that and that's the problem if we open up that
Like there was people in chat who were like talking about it as well. I was just like, uh, oh if we go there
This this efap will be just that
I'll just point out that I find interesting that even people who disagree with free will
Someone's like oh, it seems interesting that when they structure what they're saying around the very nature of choice
But perhaps i'm misrepresenting exactly what i'm saying because he did try and cover that afterwards. So
Yeah, uh, very complicated loads of like everyone in chat is going to have differing degrees of having looked into it
And that's the same for the guests as well as understanding all the concepts. And so like I said, it's like
Certain things efap can only scratch the surface of while hoping to just get some discussion out of it
I love how it all came from him saying
that
You're taking away like people's feelings when you say something is bad. That's where we we drew out of that was glorious 40 minutes
Yeah, I know there's a lot down back right there
Um
Appreciate the weeks of entertainment from you all. Oh, yeah, glad you're enjoying it. Dr. Pepe
Welcome, sir. Even though i'm I don't
Contribute nearly as much as a little rags, but still no, you're up there. You're high on the list. I think
Let me have a look efap
I mean you're high up because uh
There's not a lot of people who do sort of come on regularly, but you're one of them
I know it goes fringy and j and metal. They're like the highest ones and that's bullshit
Yeah, so they're the four super regulars. You're the first of the rest if you know what I mean you you come on
Nice you're tied for most appearances and you've got one hour more than anyone the next person
All right, and that'll go up after this one
You'll get a number eight. Uh, so we'll well, like I said
You've got seven appearances fringy's got 26 metals got 19. Jay's got 18 decibels. It's got 12 like
Clocking in a lot of numbers
Yeah
You which came first the cosmic chicken or the cosmic egg
Oh, I can't remember what we decided about that
If we said well, I mean
Like i'm a christian and so technically it'd be the chicken
Well, there you go. I don't know I yeah, I think we talked about the chicken versus the egg argument on efap before
We have to we talked about like how species work and stuff
As as you do as you naturally tangent
This is what mauler wants he's not even going to play elevator music
I usually only play elevator music if i'm not in the argument, right?
And that's not even 100 in the case, but like this is a discussion for all of us
And so like playing elevator music would be like why wouldn't I just play elevator music all the time we pause?
um
Because and oftentimes the elevator music one it's usually something
Nonsensical or petty or stupid or funny like not an actual serious discussion on. Um
Well, how do you how do you get world views and stuff? So yeah, I just didn't think the elevator music worked for that bit
um
Hell yeah, if this drum lasts five more hours i'll have a birthday fap. I'm pretty sure it definitely did
Um shad thoughts on sword fighting in zelda
Which zelda breath of the world or
Well, it doesn't specify so pick whichever one you want, I guess
Uh again, that's something I actually need to watch while paying attention. So uh, because generally I just play casually
but from what from memory
Uh over swinging telegraphed and he throws his shoe out of position when he strikes and things like that and that's that's general gameplay
Um animations for swords and stuff because they like to convey a lot of movement and telegraphing emotions
So the player can kind of pre-empt how the attacks are gonna go
Um, but I don't think you need to do that every instance. You can actually have far more non telegraphed historical, you know
Movesets that work perfectly well in a video game and kingdom come deliverance is the best example of that. So
All right
Uh robot head claims the first episode of mandalorian is lazy, but I believe it went well establishing character tone pace. What are your thoughts?
um
So uh, i've talked to robot head about his video and um, I invited him to come on to efap
next week
And we're possibly going to watch his video live
But um, he might not be able to make it. He said that he's uh, it's 50 50 right now
So if he can't we'll do something else. But um, as soon as he's able you might be able to do that
It'll be our first ever
Efap with the person who's made the video
I think anyway
So like I was eating while watching the first episode and so I got distracted and I
I don't think I have a a perfectly clear picture
If you can get perfectly clear
But a clear enough picture of the first episode to kind of comment, but I really enjoyed it
I thought it was great. I really liked the first episode is the best one out of the three as far as i'm concerned
Um, this is where I get kind of some biases coming in because
I have to say I like I love the baby
In it like that's yeah, that's
Cute, uh beyond belief and just the the way that they have the
You know it interact with the bandolorian even in the such small little things like oh
Oh, dude, the uh when it was when the bay was playing with the thing it screwed off the handle
I love the fact that he's about to leave and he goes to pull the handle. I was like, oh, that's great
And then he's like nope i'm coming back for it. I was like, oh I liked episode three a lot. I just um
Had a lot of problems with it that I was like damn it
Why did you have to have these things? You didn't have to have these things. Um then episode two
I only had a few issues with it, but also I got really put off by um, how much of it felt like filler to me
Yeah. Yeah, I do admit that episode two was could have been all avoided because it was just fixing the ship basically
But I do kind of see why they wandered it in for certain narrative elements because that
Um helped him come a little bit more indeed towards, you know
The baby because the baby saved his life and stuff and so that's that was fairly important for the character progression
I want to clarify. I don't hate filler as a whole. Um
It's just that it's such a small amount of episodes
And i'm like, oh man
I want it to be like constant plot progression so I get my juicy content
You know instead of I don't mind hanging out with the mandalorian as a character doing something that doesn't amount to much of anything
Or fixes a problem that started in the episode. That's fine
I just um, yeah, like I said, it's totally subjective. I'm just like I just want more things to happen
I think that I find interesting like the mandalorian, you know
Is we know so little about him yet. He is already such a more engaging interesting character than ray
Oh, yeah, there's no question
And like it's he's failing a lot like he's bailed out quite a few times
Yeah, and he struggles as well
And you know something traumatic happened in his past through certain flashbacks and it establishes in a far more subtle way his you know
More his ethics his standards and his character and he's very quick to kill the droid when
Uh, yeah, it was great
You know, yeah, there's a lot and and I like that he speaks so likes like so little yet
We get to learn so much about his character just because his actions are more significant
And yes, he chooses his words carefully. Um
Doesn't speak much. Yeah, so it's it's lots to like about the mandalorian. I won't deny that
um, I just I guess i'm like
Oh, it's such a it's such an awkward sort of thing where it's just like oh star wars I miss you
Yeah, I know
You know gee you reckon he's gonna come across a jedi at some point like
Have the lightsaber like oh damn, you know, what was he gonna do?
I really don't know what they're planning with this like I got I got nothing man
Like I don't know what they're gonna do gee then my like I wonder if there's gonna be an obi-wan cameo for his upcoming series
Oh, yeah, that could happen
Um
But yeah, that's a hell of a lot better than the sequel films
Oh, yeah, I know
Um
How much would y'all have to get paid to take an uppercut from mike tyson in his prime can't block can't dodge
You gotta take it. Yeah, I just say no
Yeah, me too. I just say no. I mean
All right money, uh, isn't that i'm not gonna risk permanent
As long as I have enough. Yeah, exactly. I I value so many things above money and my own personal health is most certainly one of them
Um, what makes good lamp bother?
uh
so good lamp would be uh
How cost effective it is how how much light it provides how much space it takes up?
Uh the aesthetic, you know, there's lots of lots of things that come into what makes good lamp
I'm not a lamp designer myself, but i'm sure I could offer some criticisms for what I would consider bad lamps
Yep, i'm glad we've uh gone through this important
Uh, it's because the daughter's arc involves her wanting to get into college. So she needs to still be in high school
I'm, not sure what that's referencing
Yeah, I don't know
Starts an arlo video prattles on about anything else. Yep. This is my first time reaction to arlo
Oh, that's my first direction to arlo. I mean that's starting to become just you know
videos that um
Say say something that that requires a lot of defining and they don't bother with it. It leaves us to want to explore it
um
Then it ends up making it so that they have to stay on pause for a while because they've not directed us in any way
So we'll just be like exploring
Because uh, I like discussion a lot
Yeah, me too. And there was a lot of things undefined in that video. Unfortunately, it's just
Um
Swordman bad. Oh, no. No swordman good
Yes, how dare you sir?
How dare you?
Uh, do an efap where batman eats toothpaste. Is that again?
I think someone someone sent that last time do an efap where batman eats toothpaste. I don't know what that means
terrifying
It's like a you know, one of those viral youtube videos. Have you seen the one where he eats a burger?
He eats a what sorry?
A burger. It's just a a small small animation clip of batman looking really serious
Holds up a burger and just eats a burger and I was like, it's it's glorious. Okay
I guess there's one for doing his teeth washing his teeth. Sorry
All right, there might be I didn't know the toothpaste one
uh in two dogmas of empiricism
Wvo quine supports a holistic theory of meaning where statements are not accepted as true in isolation
But within a web those closer to the edge are easier to change
Sounds relatively reasonable
Yes
That's that's one of those statements
I need to listen to a couple of times and absorb fully so I can understand exactly the implications of being said
So sorry, I didn't absorb at all, you know, it's been a long day
Well, that's the thing man. Um, a lot of people can get testy with some of the stuff we say toward the like
Later parts of streets and stuff and I was just like, I don't know
Braden starts to say some funny things when it's been doing this for this long
Exactly. It's like words. They just kind of start going together when you
In utah, we have a lot of mormons that believe in the church despite accepting all the evidence that it's false
They know that joseph smith was a con man, but they still believe he was a prophet of god
Oh my goodness
I've heard all of this crap before so don't think
People are trying to you know spam stuff like this that I haven't I was a missionary for the church for two years
And I love going into all the nitty-gritty details, especially with church history and stuff like that
And joseph smith is a legend right? He was not a con man. Not at all
And that's all I will say on that before things get too derailed. I mean, I know nothing about it. So
Um
Well, I mean outside of what I've heard from like so
You know just someone attacking my religion. Don't worry more
Hey, man, we have we on efab it's all fair game
But uh, I know
And like you me and rags we've had a you know, good fun long kind of discussion debate on uh, logical validity for deity
And stuff like that. So it's not anywhere. We haven't gone before I was playing left for dead. I remember
I was killing zombies while discussing religion
yep
Someone's like it's funny. It's like it's not something I hide because i'm just reading chat now
It's like it is a moment like yes
It's mostly common knowledge unless people have only more recently learned of who I am and stuff
Certainly not something I hide shad is a christian kangaroo
Mm-hmm. Well, hey, look at this back to back super chat you go. The next one is hey shad recently finished your book and I really enjoyed it
Thank you, sir. There's a lot to hear
uh
Also, hi wags
Oh, you would say hi back. He's just a little sleepy. Um
In my opinion, your opinion is evil
In your opinion you underestimate my opinion obi-wan
Just just to reply to again people it's funny that people have a really negative view on religion and particularly mine
It's like, you know, they get something like a you know
Like a dog with a bone and they can't let go and they're saying joe smith was found guilty historically
Yeah, and those charges were also dropped and admitted by the state that they were false as well
it's funny how people just they get stuck in a certain mindset and they either ignore blatantly obvious facts that have already been established for a
very long time and uh
Because again, I don't know they really and anyway, sorry
It's okay
Uh jab cheese is objectively good cheese. I can agree with that
I was watching the sunset. Who's the talking muppet also hi rags talking muppet was alo
and um
Hopefully we won't I don't know insight and ire from
His community when covering him, you never know with every single new person we cover who's got an audience
I didn't see it coming with jenny
I honestly thought that was just going to be your average efap
Like yep, she just I think it's because of the fact that she had a vlog style
I was like, no one's going to really care if we cover this
um
But she tweeted out that's probably what did it
yeah, and uh
And yeah, it seems like people were very, you know defensive about any criticism that go to her and yet their responses were so disingenuous
like
So much of the criticism they were lobbying against efap was the exact same
Level of stuff that they themselves were doing in trying to claim that you know
It was a bunch of guys just in cells that hate women. It's like what?
you know
Actually, we've got we got fans of women on this podcast rags a big fan of women
I'm married. I have four children. Did I say, you know?
Yes, i'm clearly an insult
Yeah, I would say sorry
Oh gosh
Um, yeah weird stuff then the way that a lot of conversations went was uh, they talked about it for 11 hours
The response is no they didn't
Uh, they they only talked about a couple of hours if you actually were to watch it and then they were like
Why would I watch that long of a podcast?
Can you like that?
so
Like this conversation was uh worthwhile
Yeah, it's it's just because it's like why would he want to watch it's like actually a lot of people do and they kind of
Enjoy the long-form stuff. And so it's it's like such a nothing argument where people try and say
Try and criticize it for being longs like oh my goodness. You guys just you don't understand it
Um joker is a very emotional film shad is a very cerebral person. Oh, that was there uh
The the superchats guess as to why you didn't like it
Oh, okay
um
Well, no, it wasn't for that. I could feel the
Emotionality, but it made me feel negative emotions as a result. Uh, just
Like, you know, it wasn't uplifting or enjoyable for me
Um, but that doesn't mean it isn't a brilliantly made film but um, it's just interesting like well to what standard
You you apply things to?
Yeah, my downright felt a bit of awe at the end of uh, joker
The power is on the car. I was kind of just like wow
Um from the whole film quite the experience watching that story
And I get it like uh
Nobody like the idea that it's just like a story that doesn't have what you may call a more traditional good or happier ending
It's um
A lot of people lose in the ending of joker
Yeah. Yeah. I mean it it's a tragic story like overall and so
I
Yeah
Um fyi emotions focus on non-determinable things while cerebral focuses on specifics
Emotions focus on non-determinable things
Sorry repeat that I got distracted emotions focus on non-determinable things
Non-determinable I would like to know what he means by that because that requires a little more clarification
Kind of comment on
Um death by guinea pigs that is possibly a reference to no bullshit. Uh, what do you think of destiny and what he does?
Um, i've watched a whole bunch of his debates. I quite like
his desperation for
references clear argumentation
However, a lot of his conclusions are a little crazy for me
Um, it would be interesting to talk to them sometime
But I wouldn't want to piss him off as in like I wouldn't want to be the guy who fucking stresses him out or anything
He seems very volatile
um
But i've seen a couple of debates where he has common conversations i'd like to assume
That it's because of people using fallacies and stuff
But you start to wonder like 90 of his debates end in carnage
And so you're like, is it really that many people who are fucking it up? It's like maybe I don't know
Um, but then you know, there's some other stuff
The like positions he holds that i'm very uncomfortable with
uh
Yeah, overall, I mean i'm okay. He's like a big spag I guess
Yeah, I barely know anything about him. I've only seen him in one debate. Um, that was live streamed and that that was it
Which one was that? Do you remember?
it was a
Him star gone someone from the young turks and was it nick?
For winter. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah her son nick fuentes and uh, it was it was I think train wrecks was the host
I I think that one was interesting
So many different perspectives all clashing at once
Yeah
Yeah
Interesting is a good way to put it. Mm-hmm
um
Youtube has decreed you are to receive a free super chat. Why thank you
I saw lord of the rings. I liked lord of the rings. I hate j
Yes, j has still yet to see lord of the rings
Need and we told him to watch it in like efap five
So, uh, no excuse
Um
Wait, does this dude hate the core concept of dialectic processes? That's an interesting position to take of course. It's never ending
I'm not sure what part of alo's video that will be referring to unfortunately
Um
When video turns legit anti-free speech we are here
There was a you know, honestly, if you don't want to recount the point of alo's video, I think the best I could say is just
I think he wants people to let people
Say stuff without as much repercussion as is happening these days
Um
But i'm like the complete opposite pull people to their statements
and
Think carefully about your statements
Um and just separate out when you want to be left alone as in like, you know, yeah, I just didn't like that thing
That's you know, it's fine. Leave me alone. You can do that. But if you start making claims, whoa
It's like um making a claim
Is also countering any claim that would be counted to it at the same time
Uh, especially if you're trying to be definitive, so of course it can be combative on its own
You don't even realize who you're actually pissing off. You might make a tweet saying, uh
You know a bunch of things and you're like i've expressed my opinion and then thousands of people respond and I guess i'm
Partially referring to anita suck easy in here
Very applicable because she said there's no wibid in episode one about deloria, which is
objectively false
and so
She said she actually admitted it was a mistake as well. I never thought i'd see that
But didn't she then just brush it off like oh, she said she said uh, women can't make mistakes online without blah blah blah
And I was like, oh my god. She says a mistake
All right, everything sexist even when people call you out for a mistake it's because you're a woman that people are calling you out
Are you insane?
She knew to the world men get you know
Ruined through their opinions online oftentimes
Yeah, I mean are you guys getting attacked because you were men?
Um, uh, pretty much. Yeah
If me you're all women for all women, I wonder how that would have gone
interesting question actually
I don't know how they would have dealt with it
Yeah
because like
Yeah, like sorry. No, it's okay. I just
I'm trying to think of what would have happened. They'd have been confused. They'd be like, what is
Wow, what they they might you might get us to go as far as getting comments like what catty women or what bitchy women
I guess
Like from and then they'd have to be reined in because it's like guys
You can't be making these comments defending like someone else who's uh
You would you would definitely be have a problem with people calling her that or something like it would it would cause an explosion
They would be confused as to how to deal with us. But yeah, unfortunately, we were born with the wrong parts
and now it makes us unable to uh
I guess
benefit from such results
Um
Free will is a myth religion is a joke
We're all pawns controlled by something greater and that is memes the dna of the soul
Hi rags kick j. Love don
Uh
Fine trolls fine troll memes of the life blood of reality. We all know this
deed
Um, I hope that super chat saw the extended version
I I
Yeah, reading now everything in full
hopefully
brooks as wesker
Jay
Yeah, I mean
Brooks's voice is a horrible compared to eska. So it's not going to happen. I'm sorry. He doesn't he's not allowed
um
This one just I get thrown every time they say yeah
Everyone was you know calling because his name is brooks, but that's my last name as well. I like
Sometimes I thought people
It's like hey bro. See what? Well, yeah, because the thing is his moniker is no bullshit and it's really awkward to say that in a sentence
like
What do you think of no bullshit? You might be like
What?
what yeah
Um, I mean I I don't swear but I you know depending on what you consider to be a swear word in whatever
You know region you're from because australia has certain words that aren't words
And anyway, but that's one of them now. I I pretend I won't say
Uh, and so I wouldn't I just can't refer to his channel name as no bull stuff. There we go
Oh, the meme quote is apparently from metal gear rising
So
Uh, it wasn't like the person saying it I guess and uh, yeah the uh
It's it's complicated because you can then call him knobs
uh, which is funnier because it's like an abbreviation of no bs, but
Even then you can feel really confusing. And so he goes by brooks for a lot of um, also
I can't remember if his yeah, I think I guess this is first name might actually be brook. I don't really care
I just call him all kinds of different things depending on how i'm feeling at the time. It's very subjective
must yes indeed
The most tismy massive place i've ever been has to be the isle of man
It's either that or the celestial diabeto jab is objectively a gay leftist. I remember that uh, that's the
the thing we did, uh
Getting different adjectives ad vibs and nouns
rags love the dog bites vids
um
you know i'll keep that even though
It's not really a question. I'm sure rags will like to hear that especially because he got monetization on it recently
He's condemning the kind of people who would say if you hate the last jedi, it's because you hate women
Why is this a problem?
Uh, because he's really inconsistent throughout the whole video. We i'm pretty sure we agreed with that part
Yeah, we have like it as the discussion progressed. We did say okay this part if it's in this context
We're absolutely. Yeah, we brought that up
I think several times actually the whole like you only hate the last jedi because you don't like women. Oh
My argument didn't involve any of that and it's like yeah, well
It's such a brainless thing to say. I was just
I can't believe it's become so prominent and that they actually push it and it just shows the disingenuous nature behind these types
It's just insane
but like if if you get to that point you can be like why you know, like if me and you
Hear this guy who's like a known admitted person who just hates
Just every single race other than white or something. We'd be like, okay
You want to listen to his take on the movie? I'd be like, uh, I don't know because
I don't even know that he can be he can see clearly at that point
Like if he's gonna be looking
So I guess what i'm trying to get at is that if they can put you into that camp
They no longer have to listen to what you've said
Yeah, that's the point behind it. Um, and that's why it's so disingenuous because
If you actually if you know argue the facts
They generally lose because their facts are pretty bad. And so we'll just
I pissed off a whole bunch of people when I said if you say the last jedi is good content
Good luck calling other pieces of content bad
It's gonna be very hard
And uh, it's just a simple like like people got really upset at it
They were like he's saying they're not allowed to have their own opinions
I was like, no, it's just a matter of if you claim this thing is a bad thing and it turns up in the last jedi
10 fold then how are you gonna explain that?
It's crazy. Uh, jenny said that the theme in joker was like whatever the theme may have been she couldn't figure it out
Uh, it was contradicting itself. Anyway, I was just like contradicting its theme. That's like all over tlj and she really liked that film
All right, um
I love listening to you guys you're all unique and make me laugh
I'm very grateful to be able to listen to such a clever group of people. Oh, thank you. Very kind
As long as we can be entertaining or informative or
I guess
Is informative a type of entertaining?
I wonder if that can suit is considered under the umbrella, but you know, yeah, like if something is legitimately
Interesting and intellectually stimulating it is a form of entertainment
And that's kind of where I get a lot of I guess the interest in my own content
Is because my content is pretty you know, fact-heavy at times. I talk about a lot of
um
Very complex things and I think one of the things that helps go. It's uh, take it through
Is that I like to think the information is interesting
But it's also being able to present complex things in a more dynamic engaging way is another you know
uh thing that helps me with content if you can if you can pull it off and I like to think I can in in some instances
I guess I hope efap is
comedic dramatic and informative the trifecta of the
stuff
There you go. That's my that's my very in-depth assessment
Put that on I agree
When is next efap gaming also high rags there's never any set for when those happen
They're just gonna happen
But uh, we have ideas and that goes the same for efap movies of which seven are attempting to release
and that goes the same for
uh
The minis for like because you know once once we we got one batman woman episode coming up in
five days
six days
and um once that's done apparently we're gonna want a hiatus for a while with batwoman other than the um
Crossover episode which we're not sure what we're doing. I guess we might be
either way
Um, I was just gonna say like I don't know if we'll be replacing it or anything
Like I know people be like oh, can you do another tv show? So I'm just like, I don't know batwoman was like a perfect storm
with this I don't know if
There's the other shows that will just work as well. It's kind of tough
I
Made the mistake of looking at chat again
And people are still going on about mormon stuff or at least one or two of them are
It's okay
They can't seem to let it go. This can't be
saying is like
objectively incorrect like you want to know what mormons believe you might want to ask mormon instead of
people who are just cutting like
literal incorrect facts about
um
Certain things in our doctrine and history and belief like it's just amazing the misinformation that's out there
So yeah, if you do want to know things about mormons ask a mormon, but it's probably a way to get more correct information
But anyway
This can't be new to you, right? The internet has got no no
Like I said, I i've heard it all I've heard it all and so much of it is out of context and things
Where people try and like what one of the comments in the chat was mormons believe that all native americans are lost tribes of jews
It's like actually no
We don't believe that
Okay
And if you want to know specifically what we believe and what connection certain native americans might have with ancient israelites
Not jews
well
You might want to understand the context of it all instead of putting things out of context and then presenting it in a more
Ridiculous fashion, which obviously sounds far more unreasonable because that's the way people like to frame their statements
And yeah, it's just a very common vein of disingenuous argument
um
Oh my okay, i'll save this this is definitely for right
I'll blend it out. I'll ignore chat. Uh, that that's my piece. I think yeah
I was gonna say if you if you tried to derile the by
I know it's I know i'm just
Because i'm shouting him down and then they'll just try and come up with something different
But i've heard it all and it's amazing the lengths that we will go to. Yeah
Uh, let's continue gonna do the aiden thing and have this dream play while I fall asleep. Wish me good night. Also. Hi rags
Good night
Remember when rag streamed with no bullshit
Yes, I believe that happened
rags
Didn't know him though and didn't know his positions as far as i'm aware
Um, if rags were here, he'd probably say the same thing, but I can't say that's 100
But yes, he did stream with him. We've all we've all streamed with with with people who we you know
Just having a conversation with you don't know everything about everybody
Rags did not know he was speaking to one of if not the stupidest content creator on the platform, you know, it can happen
um
Weird question, but do any of you work out? If so, do you have any advice on home workout equipment?
My so I go to a gym. I don't uh
Have home workout equipment
But I mean if you got space for a treadmill probably can't go wrong there. Maybe weights like freehand sort of
But uh, there's gotta be good advice on the internet for stuff like that
Like i'm just going off basic understanding of what people do in homes with with home workout stuff
Uh, my current job schedule makes it hard to go to the gym. So i'm thinking about converting my garage into a home gym
Yeah, I could that could go go. Well
Uh, like I said, uh find some advice online probably
Uh, this guy is describing something very incorrectly
I'm assuming that's referencing alo
Yeah
Could have been me it's very possible could have been any of us
Uh calling calling someone jay makes you jay. Oh
A shay, I think that's supposed to be shad if you know brandon sanderson. Could you ask him to finish dragon steel?
Oh, yeah, I I haven't asked him about that specifically
But I think dragon steel is holding off because that has a lot of crucial elements to the formation of
The cosmere or the nature of the cosmere
And so what happened to adenalceum and where the shards came from and stuff. Um, there's like a version of dragon steel
available at
Byu, I think because he might have submitted as part of his master's thesis
um
But he he said he needs to rewrite it as well. Um, but yeah, so
Dragon steel is put on his radar anytime soon. Uh, there's been no reports on that
Yeah
P.S. Everyone should sign jay's petition. I mean, yeah, you can find jay's petition on twitter
Uh, he's trying to get no bullshit to change his um his picture
Very very fascinating endeavor. Yo was up. I mean
Go ahead. Oh, well, yeah, like I said, I don't know anything about you know, i'll call in brooks. Um,
So again, i'm very disconnected from the whole, you know thing that's happening there
But I can't say that changing his profile picture to the guinea pig wouldn't be an improvement, you know
Because oh, hey the guinea pigs they look kind of cool. Just saying, you know
Uh, yo, what's up home slices two questions first
Have you seen the poison of subjectivism by cs lewis doodle on youtube? If not, then do it for doodle
um
Someone sent me that
I want to say a couple days ago on twitter and I did watch it. It was uh
white
Content rich. It's a lot of ideas quickly
Yeah, like I have seen one of his videos recommended. Sorry. My my infant son has joined us. So you might hear i'm a bit louder now
um
I I have to watch it in the movies, but I just was interested by his channel name cs lewis doodle. Was it like
Like i'm a fan of cs lewis
A second question if I created 3d models of some of y'all can I make them do the fook?
uh
I don't I guess everyone might have different answers to that
I think rags are probably like you can do whatever you want
And I probably second that if you if that's what you want to do
You know what? It's a free country
um
Hi rags and shad, uh, if ever you need a portuguese translator for your books hire me
I have three years of experience and i'm unemployed
Un bejo grande. Cheers
I mean, uh
I don't know. I don't know. Did you get your books translated?
uh, shad
That's something i'm actually going to be looking at uh soon, uh, where uh
Finishing off second edition for the book and once the second edition is more polished brandon act like sanderson
He actually suggested I approach his own agent about um, a limited us print release
And that's also where I am going to be looking at translations. Um, because I can't do it, right?
and and so an agent is perfect for um, uh approaching foreign language publishing groups and then they translate and
Translate it and uh distribute it as well. And so
It's on my it's on my radar. That's what i'll be looking at soon
Um rags has spoken to sargon who has spoken to faraj if he hasn't himself
He knows someone who has spoken to the queen their uncle spoke to hitler. So it's less than six people between you and adolf
Oh, how about that? Oh, that means you're at the n-word. Well, not that n-word the other the other end
the bad man
Uh rags wolf mauler, which is more retarded canon wise aliens, colonial marines bringing back corporal hicks or episode nine bringing back palpatine
Um, so the way they do it in colonial marines is that the body of corporal hicks in alien three was someone else
That's what they say
And from what I understand the rationale
The palpatine is either going to be he simply says he survived which is insane
Or yeah, that's just retarded. I like no
Or they killed a clone the whole time. That's what was actually happening. He was a clone on the death star
With some of the things that you were reading it's like they're just picking out
Bull crap from thin air and just making it canon like force powers can suck youth from another person
When the hell they're making the force into do whatever they want magic
Which it's just retarded. I mean if that's what they actually do we're here to see what actually happens
But if they go down that path
Oh my goodness
and then uh
There's yeah, not to mention like
It's the the fact that it seems so uncertain all these different reports
All these different screens
They're in damage control maybe
You watch like so if you told me the plot of episode nine back before force awakens came out i'd be like
Is this a joke you trying to kill like destroy star wars? What are you doing?
Like why would you make this so hard on yourself? It's so easy to do this
Sorry
Oh, I it it
It really feels like whoever's handling the script doesn't know
The correct structure for storytelling and stuff with the amount of bull crap that they're going back and forth with and things and I mean
oh
yeah
insane
I wonder what's happened. It's crazy. I mean
and the very nature of reshoots like
I wasn't fully aware how
Common they were right and and when I heard that movie stories the actual plot of the story can be
Altered at you know in drastic ways
To near the very end of production. I was like, well, hang on
didn't you like
To me as a because i'm a writer right? That's not how well does not have my right stories and stuff like that. I mean
Just uh, I just can't understand how they do it
Yeah, as for which is more crazy canon wise I guess i'll go with episode nine. It's more crazy because
It's kind of they're almost the same neither of them should be alive
But I feel like star wars is gonna break extra things when they do it corporal heck surviving
Is like them saying oh, there's just a mistake in transit that sort of thing. It's fine
while episode nine is gonna have to break several things in the universe as well like the idea that we just got this army of
Palpatine clones or
You can survive the deaths are exploding
Okay
He said no, but what if they create another force power he teleported himself
Off the diet start and it'll be so cheap if they do something like that
Okay, we're gonna see we're all gonna get our answers in under a month
Yeah, gee, thanks more
I did not want to watch this piece of crap
Now I feel I have to just to see what happens in this train wreck like you can talk to us about it eventually
I mean, I want to see a review from you shad don't deprive me of such things
No, because i'll do something wrong and you'll rip me apart on efap because we never do anything wrong here
Um, what if instead of god is dead we say god has fallen and he can't get up
I mean, maybe he's i'm gonna lie down. You don't know that he can't get up
No reason why he can't lie down
There are deeper philosophical and theological implications to this that could take us in the many different directions. So
Uh, that's my thoughts on it. Ah, yes, my favorite show ejap every jab a pause
Yeah, there's a mainstay to admit when you are wrong is to become correct
Pretty much, um, yeah
It's interesting like because you know, um
You go through many kind of phases growing up through life when you get old
But I actually you know
Kind of remember the process when I was younger when I realized that hey being wrong isn't so bad
But I do remember before then
There was times when it was very hard for me to admit
I was wrong and that was a lot of because of insecurity and I was young and naive and all that stuff
but it's it's kind of a liberating uplifting thing when you actually are able to
Change something inside yourself and say
You know being wrong. It's not that bad. Yeah, it's really not gonna last very long
Like oh no these he's the guy who admitted he was wrong versus he's the guy who never admits he's wrong
Well, the other thing is and I like and it's funny people who get really
They dig their heels in and won't admit they're wrong when you know faced with so much, you know contrary evidence
they they
Seems like they're unaware of something that's quite prominent and it's the amount of
respect people give to people who admit when they're wrong that they're wrong when they're wrong and
The amount of credibility it actually increases
For that individual and for people who view it like it's a it can do good things for you when you do that
if just
in regards to your credibility, but
They seem to think that no they're wrong. I mean, there's no one will ever trust him again
When it's the opposite your your credibility will remain unscathed if you admit you're wrong once you're presented with the information
Mm-hmm
Shad look out kylo lurks around many toilets waiting for his prey who whispers into the wind does it hurt?
Oh dear, I might have to shut the door even when i'm alone now
Please don't flush brown pointy daddy. Oh my goodness
uh
Then the follow-up from this man same person and different super chat words are gay
What do you think of that philosophically?
I must be a raging homo. Yeah, I was gonna say you've got a lot of the gay ground in this podcast if yeah
But you know sometimes I just you just have to that's it you gotta accept that and that's okay
Yeah, gotta accept a bit of the game
It's 2019
Mm-hmm. Uh, hi everybody. Jojo rabbit is great. Have any of you seen it? Have you seen that?
Jojo rabbit no, yeah, it's a new tyco ytt film
Oh, how is it it's about a boy whose imaginary friend is hitler
Isn't that from premise alone you're like i'll watch it
I like I would watch because
even like
It's pushing against the political correctness though. You can't even mention nazis
Otherwise you're a terrible person
Like, you know pewdiepie was raked across the coals because he made some nazi jokes like come off it
And so to see something more mainstream saying nah up your will uh, we'll make jokes about nazis. Thanks. It's like okay. I think uh
The the crazier lefty people are actually okay with the film because it's making fun of nazis completely
Um, I don't know actually i'd have to check in to see what's even what they're thinking about it
Um because like the even the nazi pug kind of stuff, right?
The context of that joke was that the statement was horrible and bad
like and that having a cute dog responds to it and the juxtaposition and the you know, but
And yet people lost their minds over it. Yeah. No, it's very like, uh,
Interesting how it all works. There's so much to uh study
You know like in the lab just like how humans work with all this stuff
um
But yeah, anyway, um
So I think at one point we said jab 2020 and back to back. I have these two super chats from uh,
two different people
bernie 2020 also high rags trump 2020 high rags
So it looks like we've got a diversity of thought in our chat. Yeah, I mean
I I said, I think trump's gonna win guys. Just just saying it, you know, that's that's what it looks like going at the moment
But I don't necessarily hate to say that. I I mean, I don't like on a personal level
Just you know because he's done some pretty jerky things
But as a president i've been surprised about certain policies and how conservatively you know
He's done things and I am a conservative. So there we go
yeah, and I I don't know enough about all of it, but um, I like the idea that
All of every kind of people is in my chat. I really don't mind
Yeah
Like it's so weird to me the amount of hate and thrill people have who have different political opinions
And I can see where it comes from and why but it's also so dumb pointless and stupid as well
And it's just a recipe recipe for disaster in the end as well
Uh, this is why I do my best to try and keep politics out of my own content
I don't know perfectly does slip in now and then but for the most part
Um because a lot of my content is very one. It's apolitical a lot of it isn't even related to politics
And I kind of understand that idea that people aren't watching my content to hear my hot takes or anything like that
They want to learn about swords and I get that and so no matter what people
political, you know spectrum they come from they're more than welcome to enjoy my content and i'm happy and
It's funny. Like i'm very close friends and family who are so different to me politically like
Just polar opposites, but guess what you can get along. It's not impossible
My goodness
And I'll tell you what the discussions we've had
Well, yeah, and I was gonna say like i'm okay with anyone holding any politics in the chat, but there are like
There's gonna be ethical and political positions you could hold that would I would be
You're crying more than likely certain ones here and there, you know ones like say for example
Uh someone said like you shouldn't be speaking about a film with a black protagonist if you're white because it's inappropriate
I'd be like yeah, you can go fuck yourself
Yeah
I was sorry. That's racist
Exactly. Like there's certain things you could say in certain contexts that will make me be like wow. That's a position
I think it's deplorable, but all right
But again, I wouldn't say to that person stop watching my content. I'd be like you can carry on. I just completely disagree with you
yep
Anyone who's 2a out there should currently be stocking up on rifles and ammunition the boogaloo cometh
2a. I'm not sure what 2a is
Beloved Jeb 2020
All right, the hills have eyes but the trees speak vietnamese either way the roof speak egyptian sun god also shad
Isle of man legs as a fantasy monster
I love man legs. So do you know the isle of man flag?
I don't oh just google it quickly and you'll have your answer to this question essentially
Oh dear, you're not baiting me. No, no, no. Isle of man is a real place. It's a real flag. It's just an amusing flag
Um, I have islands
Isle of man
I don't have a flag. Oh that flag there. Okay. Okay, so three legs is it? Um, yeah that as a monster
It'd be very hard for it to get around you'd think like we're having three legs
But the position of the legs they're off in such different angles unless they could fully rotate
And then it could like walk on two legs and then have the third leg as kind of like a as a
Punchy kind of thing that could go down and heal people with a reverse bend of the knee
Um, I'd still think would be mostly ineffective but pretty pretty spooky seeing that thing, right?
Yeah, yeah, it'd be not be unnerving. It's uh, it's uh, it would be it's a creepy kind of thing
Mm-hmm. Also, I'm just to a is second amendment
Uh-huh. Yeah
Wow, it's almost like rage bait pushes likes and retweets and actions like they've been resulted in our borked media
if that's referencing
Anita
Then yes
I'm, not sure if it is though
Because yeah, she's she calls misogyny left right and center and it gets her a spotlight a lot of people
because I I honestly my entire timeline like I was seeing all the different people I follow respond to her and like call her out with
Being ridiculous and it is kind of like man
This is what she wants. I guess
Yeah, it seems like attention and then uh, then she can claim victimhood for all the attacks that she gets and everything
Have you seen her channel though? It's not working out
She's
I like to think of it as just uh, that's the way the cookie crumbles like you don't have anything to offer
Nobody stuck around
Like all the you know games and content these you know more extreme
You know sides of feminism stuff has been making it's just been
Dying flat and going nowhere
Yep
What does blessed pipeman think of alo I will hang on to that question
I'm gonna assume you may not even know him, but if he does it'll be neat to get his perspective
It's our resident puppet versus the covered puppet
Favorite john carpenter movie that would be the thing for me. What about you shad?
I don't know. I just think of um, uh, john carter from mars. Is that close to john carpenter? Can I pick that one? No
Oh
I kind of like that movie. No, you yeah, but it's not john carpenter movie. They jump they jump really high
He jumps and then he then he like hits things with a little chain whip and stuff
That's nice, but it's not allowed in the selection now. You got a couple to choose from
I can read them out if you want you got the thing read them out. I see if I see I haven't seen it halloween the original
I see no, I hate horrors. And so it's very likely i've seen
Nope escape from new york
Oh, hang on. Is that with like kurt russell? Um
Okay. All right. Is there anything else then uh big trouble little china's
Oh, uh, i'd say escape from new york. So far my favorite. Um in the mouth of madness
I guess that's kind of a horror. So you got escaped from l.a but
Yeah, and I think that's the main ones most people know so
Yeah, um, like I said, I'd still go snake snake
The thing is like one of my favorite horror movies is so damn good and like it's it's one of those ones
That can really survive aging pretty damn well
I love those ones. Um mines prince of darkness close second is they live for its ending best eldritch horror director
Oh, yeah, a lot of people think he did really well with uh, the lovecraftian elements
um in different parts of his movies
Um, can I tell you about the time I wore blackface?
I mean if you want to
Uh, it could be an interesting story. I'm not going to be against it
All right
Part of the reason wind waker had such a negative reception was because of an ad in nintendo power
It looked very adult both style and in gameplay
When the cartoony style came out many consumers felt like they'd been lied or baited and switched with the much better looking ads
I mean, yeah, I don't have context for any of that, but that could be fair. Yeah
Yeah, I wouldn't know
Uh, make no bs the final boss of efap mini video game. Why would he be the final boss?
Come on
He's terrible
Who would you say would be the final boss? Well, first of all, like if we transpose this to like mario
I would make um, no bullshit the goombas
Like he's just all of the goombas. Um final boss
Probably
I might want to go with a meme character instead of anyone we've covered
because really yeah, like because of all the people we cover like
I mean jenny could be or jenny's like the knights of jen as someone suggested. I thought that was pretty good
Oh, yeah, she was the most aggressive, you know
Well, she wasn't too aggressive
She just tweeted but then every everyone came for a defense
I was gonna say she'd be the kind of boss where you've got um a really like weak character that can be killed easily
but they're surrounded by
So many like units that have decent armor and attack and it's like a big mob boss sort of fight
Yeah, as soon as you get to that center and kill it all the knights just fall apart
There you go
CDI zelda game is the best so
Oh, I remember that one. I remember seeing videos about it. It's a very amusing the um cutscenes and stuff on it
Uh glad you find chaps enjoyed the art the owl is bubo from the clash of the titans referencing bilbo
And that is it's maula's spirit animal. Oh, there you go. Great stream as always and shad love your channel
And there you are. Well, thank you, man. Yes appreciate it. Sid niggleson
Very very awesome art and like I said, if you can, uh send me over you may have done it already
I haven't checked my emails, but
um
Give me the the originals for any of them
I would love to have them so I can uh get them out there for other people and use them
in future
Uh, son of a bitch you guys started streaming and i'm drunk as fuck what hellish video is on right now
Anyways, well, i'm not looking at wait and why am I not looking at women?
Well, you can't look at women when we don't have women gas or women coverage. I'm so sorry
It's a world
Oh, whoops rags is right there. Hi wags. Yes wags rags counts
Considering the story I think this art style fits
Uh, yeah, that's another that's what we found interesting when I found out that the the game is
a dream he's like, oh
Narratively seems like it works
um
Will he explain the secret of mario's jump?
Somehow I don't think
I love the a team and wanted to be mr. T
I wonder what that uh
Oh, is that but are you first of all, are you black and are you allowed to want to be mr
T? I was gonna say that's the guy who said he's got a blackface story. Um
That's that's probably what it was
Yeah, all right
Uh new game when you're a creature traveling through a labyrinth avoiding the four dark spirits that seek to consume your soul
And only using the orbs of power. Can you stay?
their wrath
Oh, so what what game is that?
I don't know. So i'll just say it again. I'm going to slowly uh
You're a creature traveling through a labyrinth avoiding the four dark spirits that seek to consume your soul
And only using the orbs of power. Can you stay their wrath?
What do you think that is?
I don't know sounds very generic fantasy kind of stuff
Well, okay, so this will be my first clue. I guess the idea is that they're describing
A game you probably know in a much more dramatic fashion
Hey a game I know
There's no way you don't know this game. Oh, really? Oh, do you want to do it one more time?
Uh, i'm tired more
I'm not gonna be able to ever think of it. Um
Orbs of power. I don't know. Is it a board game video game?
The biggest clue is saying avoiding the four dark spirits that seek to consume your soul
Four dark spirits labyrinth four enemies
I I can't I don't know the answer is in chat. You can see it. It's several
They're all they're spamming it away. Oh pack. I barely played pack man at all. You don't need to have played it
You should I don't even I I didn't even know there were four ghosted. I knew there were ghosts, but there was restricted to four
Wow sad disappointment chat's gonna be unhappy that you don't know about pack man
I played dnd not pack man. What?
Good job shad for episode three dual video press f
Yeah, I saw that one as well actually I think i'm halfway through it I need to continue it
And it was cool to see
You know being like this works this works this works. It's like this one dodgy move not much sense there
Like there's no it feels very unbiased
Yeah, and um like episode three
Like it's really good. It's a really good fight scene. Um
Bit a lot better than a lot of people have assumed i've found
Um next one is actually i'm i'm not going to do a star wars one next
Uh, i'm gonna do a classic
um, uh
Princess bride sword fight scene and then i'll go to luke first parfaita. So mix it up a little
Like it was fun watching the uh, the troy one with you when you first came on efab
I like that. I'll probably yeah, i'll probably do a um fight scene autopsy of that as well
Like i'll do all the big, you know famous ones
Um
Mola i'd like to discuss this with you alo so it's treason then
pretty much
The interesting thing is his video kind of precludes him from actually responding to us because we've broken his rule
So rip like we tried
uh
Opinion is made up of two parts subjective. What is good objective?
How well the item meets the standard of what is good?
If people agree on the former only objective judgment is left
Um
Depends on what statement you make I got distracted
I have a little toddler running around
It's okay. This it was definitely covered in the
The the suit is like in and amongst the uh, the four hours. I think of coverage we had is definitely covered in there
Uh, the new zelda art style would look good for a chibi robo remake
fair enough
robo remake, huh? Yeah, I don't um
I don't know. I haven't played the game. That's a reference to
uh
Maybe the plastic like feel of link's awakening makes it seem like link is in a dream wink wink. Yeah
Still not in the uncanny valley territory
Well, he didn't even make that uh argument, but I guess he could have tried it
I mean it's too fast
He kind of did he said that it was like too
Too much like real life or something that should be more surreal which
Isn't really that argument, but you know, he could have explored it
He wasn't defining how he was using the word surreal because
They would just go off the more common definition, but it wasn't applying to
Accurately to his criticism. So yeah
Susan sends her regards via free super chat. Why thank you susan
Hard send back. Yes. What about pizza on pineapple? Is that gross?
Oof you imagine a big slice of pineapple with a pizza on top of it you bite into that
That might be heresy times a hundred. That's like you've entered hell at that point
Exactly. You're already punished and
It's over
Take my free super chat and like it very well
uh, it be like it be if an anime with poor art style but has a good storyline and good characters in a cool setting
But because the art style low quality makes it bad anime
He doesn't know what he's talking about. He seemed to be making the point that um
I don't even know when it came to like art style
Is he he went on the thing about adaptations in movies as a comparative statement for the art styles being adapted when you adapt a game
What's the menu was just like where are you going?
Yeah
It was a big false equivalence as well when he was trying to make that analogy and compare it to film adaptation versus game adaptation
Because yeah a lot of different things consider
Uh, also arlo is skipping over the fact that the entire game is in a dream of a creature. Yeah. Well
Bring that up. Yep
Arlo just talking with buzzwords like his ukulele review also fringy wouldn't the cute aesthetic work because it gives off this
Not what it seems vibe
I think so. I think honestly just if you had a dream where everything was plasticky
Good man, would it be like?
Wait, what he's like, uh, because a lot of the times you you have a lot of um leeway and dreams
You wake up and you're like, why did I think that was real?
They can be bizarre sometimes a lot of fun
I had a dream the other night where my wife was a military fighter pilot and I told her she's like what this is like
It was just kind of cool
That's the thing, uh people talk about like keeping a dream journal
And the only reason I've ever wanted to is because I always forget dreams so quickly the most bizarre ones
And it's almost like you should write this down just in case
It's not only funny to recant to other friends about how ridiculous it is. But also what if it led to an idea for a story?
Something crazy. Yeah, it's possible
It's possible. Um
This whole video is basically I don't like it pretty much
Yeah, and I like I said if you just said that it'd be fine
But it's when you start to develop the claims that support that
unfortunately, a lot of people will grasp at something whether or not it's
Fully defined even for themselves and they'll be like that sounds about right. That's why and you're like you didn't have to tell me why
to be honest with you
Um if you wanted to be left alone
It's like if you start making claims
Yeah, I like it. That's exactly right. He started there to go a step further and
Be more definitive about his criticism applying it outside of his opinion. So yeah
Uh, what are you guys thoughts regarding the longevity of the star wars franchise?
I'm both inclined and disinclined to agree that according to red letter media its narrative limitations inhibit said longevity
All right. So my hope is that
Give it give it five maybe ten years. They will scrap the um sequel trilogy and
Start it all over again and
They might even bring back the expanded universe
And try and go down that route and they might bring a new actor in to try and play a younger luke skywalker
Still a bit older from turn of the jedi but could kind of pick up the storyline
sooner after the events of the last jedi and much earlier before uh force awakens did that's my hope they just
Throw it in the bin and just admit it was trash and let's do it make a do-over
Um, there's a good chance of that happening. I think especially because of dark fate decanonizing two minute three four and five
It's like this is something that could happen guys. It could
Hollywood has uh, you know, um decanonize things all the time and uh made revamps try and
Capitalize on stuff once more they do that constantly sometimes
Successfully sometimes horribly. I also
I was just going to say I also think they would do it before giving up on star wars as in like
If it was having star wars is too big
Just abandon it completely
Especially that certain other properties star wars properties are being really successful the mandalorian
That shows that there is still a massive audience that wants good star wars
They just like all we need is a good star wars and we will embrace it like and and love it and watch it
Okay, but give us crap the trash they've been spitting out
Well, then of course you're going to get the um
Backlash they deserve
Um, think about it if it's all a dream shouldn't it come off as deceivingly safe
Like why is it the people on the island so bent on stopping you from walking?
Like I said, his arguments just they're not going to work because you can easily make the reverse argument very quickly like
Oh, it's not surreal because it's plasticky and real it's like oh it's surreal because it's plasticky and real there you go
Like oh you have to go into more depth if you really want that to be concrete, but it's not
um
And the first thing i'll be thinking about in my script i'd be like well
I'm gonna have to define what surreal is in order to tell people that it's not reaching the definition of surreal
Uh, the new zelda game looks like it's all claymation like wallace and grommet
Cool, I don't know. I hope it's good. That's not that yeah, that can be good or bad. Uh, it just depends on execution
Since I know you'll never watch it google image search love live oohs
Us girls and rank them from best to worst in your opinion based on looks there's nine. All right, just based on the uh,
The description there is that i'm gonna stay away from that like the plague. I will
Uh keep that question. I'm gonna
Google it between shows and if it's a safe thing
I will have it and i'll answer it with rags so we can we can both
Do the ranking to make sure you got your your question answered is plastic water still wet
I'm gonna go ahead and assume. No
plastic water
Um oi oi lads, how do you lot feel about the fast and furious films?
I'm bothered with the new spin-off, but I grew up with them
You got a special place in my heart and fast five was a beauty
I've actually mentioned fast and furious on the fat before and I said they're a heck of a lot of fun
They're really bad on a lot of levels, but they're great brainless fun. Not all of them
They're ones and worse ones
Um, what's the one where they just drive around the middle of the streets dragging a massive?
Um steel vaults
Is that number six four or five? Oh, well, just six actually I lose count that I don't know how to do that
and such a
brainlessly stupid fun movie and so
That's what I think about the fast they said it's safe i'm i'm sure it could be safe
But i'm sure you'd rather me keep the question for when rags is here as well
Um
Because he'll he'll actually be invested in the ranking probably
Um, but yeah, no fair enough. Uh, I don't really care about that in a few years
I saw the first and second and tokyo drift once I believe
And I wasn't well those those
Yeah, i'll find them the weaker entries in the franchise. It's when they decide uh, like because
Number one and two it's like you're trying to be a bit more serious be a bit more around the racer thing
And when they decide to say just stuff that we're going to make it into a fun heist franchise
With lots of fast cars and stupid, you know stunts and stuff. It became a heck of a lot more fun
Uh, yeah, I was just gonna say that I was never invested really but um, you know, they do seem fun from from the trailers
I
This will help me stay sane through the week, I hope you have a great week mola fringy shadden j and rags
I hope you have a great thanksgiving
But thanks. Thank you, sir
Uh, it's like too little graphics spread over too much expectations zeldogannins
Uh, I am and still a fan of arlo's content, but this was the first video I felt disconnected from his overall point
Um, yeah, I think that's fair as far as I know he makes good stuff
I haven't looked into it myself, but that video wasn't too great. It was very confused
Yeah, and even if we disagreed with a decent amount of a single video, that's not a commentary on his content overall
Yeah, it could be a very nice guy and that's great good content generally and yeah
We we might be able to make it this time around but we are approaching
Uh, well, we we're under an hour left of time before the cap now
So this is the third stream in a row that we've hit the cap
As someone who originally played link's awakening on gameboy and is now watching my baby sister played on switch they've both got great art to offer
Yeah, I agree from the two I saw I think they're both achieving a lot with their styles and execution
preferred mon warfare mode
So mine's domination. I like headquarters as well
And I will put up with team death match, but i'm not a huge fan
You got cyber attack or night matches for me also partial to spec ops also campaign story versus original mon warfare
I still haven't played the campaign. But um, I think wolf and rags both said the campaign was relatively good
and also high rags
Uh, I would say a remake has to have a substantial difference to the original even if it's only changing the ending
So what people will typically say about a remaster is that you actually kept the original like uh code you've changed the graphics
um, and then it's like what if you alter that code and then how much you have to alter the code before it would be considered remaking it
and um
There's different terms like
remake versus remaster versus like re
The
I can there's there's a lot of things and it's complicated. What's how you draw those lines? Um
Specifically, but I think we all understand each other when we mostly use these terms to describe something
um
Yeah, honestly every time I hear opinion my blood boils because people only use it to weasel out of the discussion or run away
From the moment they start losing
Um, it's just an opinion guys
This is the thing. I still say it. It's almost like a tick
Like I catch myself like I don't need to say that I just almost get an urge to say it
Um
But yeah, you know
I just uh most of the time like if anyone does say it and you pursue exactly what they mean by it
There's often going to be a better choice of words. They could have used anyway, but I think we've all
culturally
come to a point
Where whenever we want to say something that we want to signal to other people that we don't necessarily want challenged
Or we we don't want to commit ourselves to in a in the sense. There's like a truth that we can defend
We will often say it's in my opinion
it's funny because like I use that phrase more generally to uh, kind of um
Give forewarning that i'm about to say something that's subjective. Therefore, it's my opinion and i'm not stating this as a hard objective fact
uh, yeah, and so
That's just my use of it. Yeah, I think that's fair
it's uh
The clarity of knowing exactly what you mean by the word because this is the thing
This is one of those words where everybody assumes that we've all got the same definition
But we really don't
And uh a lot of different people have a lot of different ways of breaking it down
So they get frustrated when they're like, why are you criticizing this word? It means this and it's like oh it does
Yeah, it's especially applicable with my uh, more historical based content
because I want to try and make a clear distinction between the
historical facts i'm sharing that i've been able to get far more confirmation on versus certain interpretations and
Pins I have of that period that aren't nearly as
Evidence-based but still has good grounding for me that you know have the opinion I have but it's still more based on
You know my kind of uh,
Interpretation of that period and you know direct fact as well. And so I use it in that distinction
Also slight bit of hindsight the game ran 15 fps
Uh, I'm not sure if that
Does what doesn't support a statement that someone said or didn't say I can't remember
Um, you're enjoying art wrong
Yes
Wait for someone to make that statement since youtube gives me free cash take it long man and friends. Thank you very much
How nice
Uh, so how do you guys feel about all the backlash that robot head is getting for his views on mandalorian?
He's been getting a big bucket of salt getting thrown at him in his comments
um
Well, I don't want to spoil anything. Hopefully we're going to discuss all of that on the next podcast actually. Um
If we don't really what day in time
Sorry
What day in time? This is ozzy. So it'll probably be a repeat of what we did today actually
Oh, okay. Are you trying to imply you'd like to be there?
Maybe maybe I gotta check my schedule
But I do enjoy the all these efap things and I like robot head
And now I reckon that's pretty awesome of him being willing to review like his own video in these stuff
That won't be the easiest thing to do. Uh, especially if
We do have criticisms to levy like it'll be tough
But I mean if you know, I also think that we'll have i'm i'm definitely going to make a point to
Compliment his editing because I really like his videos. Um, and hey i've got criticisms of mandalorian as well
So, um, yeah, but no promises yet. We're we'll we'll have to see if it's possible
Um, oh my god, he's made 0.600 times now we get it already. Yeah alo repeated himself many times with the whole
Especially towards the end
Yeah
This is why if it was scripted I don't believe for a second that he redrafted it
Um, I think that most people when redrafting something like that would definitely pick up
It's it's interesting how that can work. Um, I I don't know if you get this as well
Uh, maybe with the books or not, but um when i'm redrafting some of my work
I'll be like how did I think that was good to say?
Like i've got this here and this here like you get um
Almost like what feels like a bird's eye view as opposed to the first person perspective when you're writing it when you come back to it
You can see a different view in a way. Yeah
Yeah, the revision process can be a very long
Archievous thing especially with a book. Um
and so uh for me it can be difficult to actually get a
Bird's eye kind of distance perspective on many things. That's when you need beta reader feedback
It's crucial because that's where you get the you know
The kind of separated more hard opinions is like no, this is terrible
I just but it's not fitting right. Um, it's like when you and when often when it's pointed out to you like
Oh
Okay, there you go
Um, I genuinely want to pick up a switch now because this game looks so nice. I do not understand this argument one bit
Yeah
I would genuinely happily have him on to discuss this topic and it would take I would actually warn him i'd be like
You do get the discussing the nature of opinions
Is not something we can crack out in five minutes, right?
Put aside six hours at least
Gonna take a while
But I mean I yeah like a lot of creators
When they get invited or or asked to be on efab and then they're like wait, how long is it and it's like well
Um, it's always awkward because i'm like are you like you're able to be free
When you first invited me, I had no idea how long efap was right?
And so I was like okay hour or so standard length and when we went for three hours
I was like, all right. I better hop off because i'm taking i'm taking making these guys go way too long
Oh, you didn't realize that we were the longest
No, not even up to that point, right?
And then when it was on moolah and I started reading comments people like wow you guys are not you know
Step up. This thing's a short efap. I'm like what the hell that's short
We principally me and rags as content creators and I I don't know if you feel this way as well
But we're just like it takes as long as it takes there is no it has to be this short
Um
Yeah, well that's the same with my videos. There's a couple of smaller guidelines i'll use so say for example
You'll be like wait, so why don't you just put your entire tfa series into one video?
I'd be like well for one
I'd like to actually be able to have completed pieces as I go instead of being like it's not
Actually ready for anything until I get every part done. It's kind of daunting
But also i'm trying to split up into what could be considered
movie length
um
For an entity piece of content
I think is reasonable to use that as a sort of an average gauge of how long someone may spend on a video
Not like it could be a six hour video. I could probably get away with it
I'm just saying that like it seems to make sense to me that that would be a neat cap to have
Um, what was the neat cap again? It's like movie length average movie. So what i'm gunning for is like two to three hours
But even that is quite a long movie typically
Hmm it is. Um
But yeah, and that's perfectly fine. Well, I was gonna say this isn't about the podcast so the podcasts are completely
Unfiltered and unhinged we go for as long as going goes
I don't like to be like the idea that because you get some podcasts are just like
Almost waiting for the timer to to complete
And I think that's when you know
The podcast is running out of steam and it's like we're gonna it looks like it's not meant to be sort of thing
Like efap is utterly insane. We've had three
11 and a half plus hour podcasts in a row and we're not finished at each of them
I know it's great. And is there any other podcast that even comes close?
Well, this is it's not I don't think so, but like there's a reason for that
It's that this is insane. You don't do this. Nobody recommends this. This is insane and you just be like, well
Maybe we'll change the face of podcasts to a degree with this
But like I think any normal person in any walk of life would just be like, how could you have that long of a podcast?
That doesn't make sense
But hey, you know it works out for a lot of people out there
I know like I think the answer would be is like how long can you hang out with your mates?
Well, there's your answer, you know
well, I think
That's kind of a proof of chemistry for this show that me and rags can go for like 30 hours and we're still fine
We're just like yeah still going
Yeah
Hi, Ivan, hahaha. I did the rags thing. I see his name is Ivan. So he said hi Ivan to himself. Not bad
Indeed, that's how the high rags meme got started. He sent a super chat to himself saying hi rags
That's the origin people can't stop saying hi rags, but that's fine. That's glorious
Okay, I have to bring this up more an observation is not an opinion an opinion would be how it affects the enjoyment of the scene
I disagree
Um an opinion by definition of how I use it as judgment
An observation is not a judgment wouldn't necessarily follow
You can create a judgment based on all kinds of different, um pieces of information
so yeah, I mean an observation is uh, what you you know, the uh
Force you have on assessing something that you're observing and uh, but you don't know if they're definitively true and
Anywhere and the thing is like, uh, you can have that definition of opinion
I'm not actually going to stop anyone from that because it's very that way it is used in all over the
I'm not going to say there's more of a definitive use of it. However
My definition of it encompasses yours and an additional one. So
What I mean by that is if someone says it's my opinion that I feel this way
I'd be like yeah, so if an opinion is in a judgment and a judgment can be
I've enjoyed this thing and from that information I can determine that this is something I like
I'd be like that was a judgment. It was entirely based on subjective experience to make a subjective claim like that's fine with me
That makes sense that follows through. Um, yeah, and I also think uh
I think the word opinion is used in that context even by people trying to narrate the definition. I
then extrapolate though that if my judgment is
You know, daniel craig is currently james bond based on this information. That's my judgment you'd be like well
Yeah, that's a that it that would be a judgment you've made I suppose and you'd be like, yeah
So by definition, it's also an opinion. It's not a very um
The problem with it is that you just be like that would people really use it that way and it's like not
really, but the ones you do use are stuff like
You know luke is behaving inconsistently and then they'd be like that's just your opinion might be like
Yeah, it's an opinion, but it's objective. It's based on information that can't be denied. So
Uh, that's that's received from the text. It's got nothing to do with my personal feelings
And uh, you know, it gets complicated then and so you might be like that one doesn't count i'd be like, okay
Let's get something more more agreeable. It's my opinion that uh, the disappearing knife in the throne room fight damages
That entire sequence in terms of the stakes
You'd be like, that's just how you feel i'd be like, no, no, no stakes can actually be quantified like we can look at
The power level of each character involved and how they're dealing with something if I find out
The fucking knives can disappear. The plot can literally wrap itself around ray and protect her by disappearing weapons
That's crazy, man
It's so funny that it happened to ray of all people like the one character that's under so much scrutiny for being a mary sue
Fantastic I think she's taken over as the face of mary sue now and like literary understandings and stuff
She might be she might become the new default example now
Um, a lot of people are unhappy with that. But um from what I found
If anyone disproves
The concept of her being a mary sue it'll be based on very very harsh
Uh standards about what a mary sue is
And that she doesn't uh literally meet them and I think that that it does a disservice to the label
I'd be like we know what the label is meant to imply as a shorthand
Right. Yeah, and so if she doesn't satisfy every single
Check box in relation to what a mary sue was originally defined as by its original word usage
I just be like, yeah, okay, even if we agree with that it doesn't make her a strong character
But like even if someone wants to be that pedantic to try and say the original meaning of uh word was something different
It's not how the language has evolved and I find it interesting the same concept applies to the word macguffin
Um people use macguffin now really more synonymously with the plot device
um
When officially macguffin and I made a whole video on this because people try pulled me up on and it's like, okay
Officially macguffin does mean something far more specific
um
but
With mary sue I think it's like far more widely
Accepted to have a more common use in language. That's
nowhere near as pedantic as people might say it is
Um, but yeah, and that's why uh
That's my understanding of the word opinion how I use it and if someone else tells me that's not what opinion means
I'm like, so in that case thing
Would you do me the favor of saying?
I feel instead of this is my opinion about something's actually shorter anyway
and then if you are you better follow up with what's a feeling instead of something that's definitely not when you make claims like
Uh, I feel like the knife disappearing doesn't affect the stakes. I'd be like
That
Doesn't follow
Um
Hello again guys, I want to make videos i've been wanting to make videos for a long time years in fact
Uh, I have ideas, but I lack the motivation it sucks any advice
Just do it
Yeah, that's tough. Um, because every single person is going to have a different thing that will motivate them. Yeah
For me, right I I that's literally I needed to find something that got me in the mood and mindset
And i'm referring to my writing in this instance, right?
Um, i've to begin with I found it really hard to get into the mindset and the mood to write
Until I realized that listening to how to write, you know videos and stuff
Motivated me and got me kind of psyched to actually start putting pen to paper. And so what I did
I literally started listening to writing, you know videos and stuff every morning
To get me in the mood to write and so if you find whatever motivates you realize like identify it and then use it to your advantage
Um, that was something that helped me
for me
The difference between not making videos and then making them was I was watching
a channel whose style I really fell in love with and then
I adopted portions of it as well as portions of plinket and portions of
Uh a hoy
Uh, there's there's a bunch of people I was trying to amalgamate and then and then it's created my own thing now
But um, yeah, I really like the way they were explaining stuff and the way that they edited and I was like, man
I kind of I not only do I think I can sort of do it
But I also would like to create something that I think is that good
and then also, um
It was soma getting either nobody review it or people are reviewing it didn't understand the game at all and they were like
It's pretty bad. The story is pretty bad. It's long. It's annoying and I was like, okay
I really want to talk about this game and explain what I thought was amazing about it and um
And then that's that's what that got made and then immediately after finishing it. Um
People were like, what do you think of you must love outlast then?
I think that was like a conclusion or whatever and I was like why I hate outlast and they were like, oh, whoa
You hate outlast and I was like, okay. Well, maybe not. You know, I'll just make a video and explain it and then I did
And then I played ds1 and loved it ds2 hated it and I was just like god that game was terrible
And played ds3 and loved it. I think anyway, this is the timeline
Then h bomb a guy came out with a video saying that um, ds2 is like a masterpiece of kinds
and I was like this video is filled with inaccuracies and it's driving me nuts and I also want to
Expell how much I wasted my time on ds2. And so that's what created that series what i'm getting at here is that like
I didn't know that those things were going to motivate me to make the videos, you know what I mean, but they did
And so like what how do you advise someone on that then it's like, um, I guess the easiest way is to just
Maybe try and figure out what's not being said that you think could be
Stick to the things that you know, you have your heart stuck in
Maybe try and experiment with video
Editing even though you don't intend to make the video and just see if there's anything that you're like, you know
What this is possible. There's so many different things and
Like we've had people who watch efap say that like it's inspired them to want to make videos, right?
I think i've read some out today possibly
um
That might not work for someone it might be more than enough to work for someone
It's uh
I don't know what exactly is going to work for you
But I hope you get there or whatever it is you need because I don't want to pretend like I have the answer because it's uh
It's going to be really complicated and it's different for everybody
Yeah moving on um
In my opinion a complaint is solely by the speaker's point of view and if it bothered them
Regardless of if you agree or not don't at me though
I just uh, I liked
What uh rags read out as the definition of it
But I didn't even it felt like a weird tangent talking about the definition of complaint
And the way that he was describing what makes a complaint was really strange
And it really seemed like you're saying that because people were
Telling him to stop complaining and again i'm doing the terrible thing
He said don't do stop trying to assume people's motives and stuff, but that's what it really felt like
Can't avoid it
Um
Same point worded so many ways lol. Hi rags. Yes
Well, it's sometimes it wasn't even worded in different ways. He just said the same thing again. We were like, oh god
Yeah
Um, I think it's time. Arlo commit suicide, right rah a permit. I get it
Very clever. Uh, this video makes me want to swan dive into an empty bathtub at the top of rah's tallest roof
Also, i'll bet you can't say
I bet you can't say sagging backwards
Yeah, that's that's not a wise thing to do on youtube you see
Get in all of the troubles even though jay longbunk gets away with it. Fine. This is the thing
I'm pretty sure that youtube will ban people for using
those words
But in certain contexts, I think more so than others but also
um
I'm pretty sure if if you're black you can actually get away with it no matter what
I'm, not sure that you can get in trouble because like a lot of people
Were uh, jay longbunk says it a bunch on this on this podcast
But I was like, I don't think we'll be in trouble. She's allowed to say it right by youtube rules
I don't know how this works. She's got the pass
I mean
We joke about it, but it's like yeah, i'm pretty sure that they would be in trouble if she was told
She's not allowed to say it
uh
From different perspectives and stuff. So it's like yeah, whatever
But um, you know, there's a context for it all I believe there's even news reports where they've um
They've used it and people there's this hot debate
Even if it's in reference or a quote they'll people will be like you shouldn't be saying it whatsoever
Oh, yeah, there was this one clip of uh, an interview on something
Yeah, probably cnn where someone quoted someone by something
He said and then he says the the word in the host was like I can't believe someone said that
She cuts
Forcing an opinion would be like not allowing someone into a friend circle unless you agree with them
The thing about that is though. They might just agree with it on the surface
I would also include torture, you know torturing someone in levels. They agreed
Yeah, yours is a much more forceful example. You're forcing someone to yeah forcing an opinion
Um
But what if what I want to do is force my opinion on others
I thought you said live by you do you i'm sure you would say you do you
Uh unless it inflicts on other people doing you, you know
I mean you you could eat like a whole bunch of opinionated papers that gave you constipation
And then when you're forcing it out
Well, you could say you're forcing an opinion that they yes
Yep, um, I got I got the deep stuff now. That's what happens when I'm tired. I nailed it. I'm very tired myself
Um a summary of the last 10 minutes don't complain about my opinion, but you can have an opinion
But don't force it on me while I force mine on you
Shad said n words have opinions the council of color and I have convened and decided shad is the ceo of racism
Hang on what did they say
Shad said n words have opinions. I don't know exactly what's referencing. I just like the idea that you're the ceo of racism. Nice job, man
How well does that pay I've heard is not so bad
Well, I mean they'd actually try and take your pay by getting you blacklisted and stuff. So
Yeah
Cancel culture. Yeah, I know. I mean, but you know, as long as you get maybe a few years in you can save you know
It'll work out relatively
So, yes ceo there's no going up from there man. Nice job. Thanks
Here we go, I thought you do you meant go screw yourself
Technically, you look at the wids. I mean
I ain't saying it doesn't say that
Oh, it's over. Thank the dawn. Oh, there we go. We're at the point in the super chats where we finished the arlo video
Look how far we've come shad
I've noticed some super chats being dropped not long ago. So
We always defeated eventually we will catch up we're uh, we've made some good progress on this efap
The fourth matrix movie jk rolling reveals that neo was gay all along
Also blade did the trench coats and shades before neo neo copied don't at me
So jk rolling reviewed well
She's doing the thing. She's been doing that with her characters in harry potter, right? Oh, yeah with that. Yep
Yeah, your brother was just like they used to magic out their poop
The thing was like what did they do when they didn't have toilets or something like that it was like, oh they could magic out their poop
Be like what?
The old story like magic did it
because reasons
Rags moolah chad, what are your massive opinions on the mandalorian?
Is it worth its weight in rhino milk or should I be sailing the seven seas?
Ah
Definitely worth its weight in rhino milk. I would say wait
Um until the full season's out. Yes, that's true. Good good point
We will be able to give you a stronger perspective on whether or not those seven seas should be sailed
Uh mandalorian is the first piece of star wars media that's made me genuinely smile. Hope it continues being good
Hi rags. Hi shad. Blessed be the dawn
Hello, and I hope so too as do I I really want good star wars content. You don't know how much it's like
water in a desert
That was just cool
Bring it back
um
Efab is a podcast about long wizards intended for children. No, no, it can't be intended for children. We'll be fined forty thousand dollars
Know that
Um, I like to bvs more than the nolan movies because I had kryptonite and I like things with good rocks
Don't at me though. Oh the rock thing
Um
So
Enis that is all meant to say this two efaps ago
All right. Well, you you got it out eventually not bad. Well done. Well done, sir
Uh just popped to need to rewind great to see shad
There you go. Shad. Oh, thank you. I appreciate it. Yeah, I feel appreciated. Oh check out this this so about the whole philosophical discussions
Uh, I think this is very relevant. This one says art is gay
Well, all right then
Complicated uh yoshiklage yoshikage kira got an erection from the mona lisa
Okay, uh, maybe so does that mean taiwan lannister is the greatest work of art of all time
Why?
Hang on. Am I getting wrong lannister?
Which which lannister is the apex homo? Oh, yeah that is sorry
Thailand ah, I was right
Um, oh, yeah. Well, yeah, sorry in reference to the art question. Yeah. Yeah, he'd be he'd be one of the best people
greatest work of art ever
Um as a glass artist, I have learned the value of art is determined by collectors
If someone is willing to pay then that's how much it is worth
I mean obviously
In terms of how much money it's worth
It'll be basically based on what people are valuing them the money monetary worth out what they're willing to pay. Sure
I was wrong to say a value. We quickly corrected that to quality. So
yeah, value is another word that gets complicated because
yeah, I mean, you know, I don't want to go too far into because i'm gonna try and push to get as many of these we can in the
30 minutes 40 minutes less than 40 minutes
All right, we can do it. We might be able to do this if I go a little faster
Did you guys ever play star wars bounty hunter game with the early 2000s thoughts? I really like it. Um, I want to play it again
Because i'm pro it's probably not as good as I remember it being but uh,
I had a lot of fun with it and it made me appreciate jango fett as a character a lot more
Natural
I didn't play that one played nights at the old republic of course love those uh classic ones and the new styles game by ea
Is getting good reviews. I've got my eye on it now
Yeah, all right. That's fair. I need to play more of that. I will
also high rags and shad
Hi
The value is based on the consumer while the quality of art is objective based
I agree. I can happily agree with that for now in terms of uh, the value like I said monetary value for sure
I can't believe how expensive some of this art crap is. It's unbelievable. Yes
Stuff my one two-year-old could do and it's worth billions. I can't stand that
Every time every time I see patrick williams
I regret that I gave up my training with the noose not for my neck i've grown an immunity
Also, hi wags and kick j
a strange super chat
I guess it's saying that he cannot kill himself via the noose and he wish he could now that he sees patrick williams
I think i'm following
um
All right, get evan on asap for the episode nine and orphan questions. Oh, we'll have him on. Um, I might try and
Fix it so that I can get him and south prawns
I know they know each other and uh, it could work out and we'll we'll talk some star wars or whatever else
Um, hi rags. I have a dumb question. Oh, all right. I will save you
You
Damn it. I never got notified you guys were live until five hours in I will catch the stream tomorrow
I love the idea that like I didn't get notified until five hours later and I've missed less than half of the podcast
Um
What are you some kind of big brain or something?
Yeah, big brain big hair big gut big everything quote from kra the sea monster
1998
Sounds great
Good quote
Um, there's nut on an arcade game a chuck e cheeses
I do not know what to make of that one. Maybe that's a mystery
Reason is axiomatic because to argue against it you have to use reason
Yeah, yeah
Um, I just watched all three episodes of the mandalorian you guys are still go that's not that doesn't count the three episodes
Of the mandalorian is like an hour and a half
It's not that long
If you said you watched all three lord the rigs extended editions, I would be like, okay. Yeah, that's uh, it's kind of funny
Yeah, that's fair. I don't think that's possible though because the cap is 11 45 55. Sorry
Um hard counter to solipsism argument if I do not exist then why do you argue against me? What's the point?
Um, couldn't they they could make up any reason they want for that, couldn't they?
Yeah, um for the fun
Can't remember when that would relate to what we're talking about
Yeah, obviously, I might not even be answering that properly considering I might be missing the context there
Uh shad would an eight foot tall man with superhuman strength wield a great sword as if it were a long sword
Hmm
There are interesting things to try and analyze eight foot isn't too much of an increase than normal
So I I don't think the square cube law would have too
Many detrimental things and perhaps they could maintain the same range of motion and speed as a regular person and if that was the case
Well, it actually depends on what strength ratio increase would happen because they would have more weight to support
And so more of their strength that actually go to supporting the additional weight
But again eight foot isn't that much of an increase. So I will say yes, I think so
And they said would they wield a long sword as if it were a bastard sword
Yeah, oh eight foot tall
Yeah, i'd say that's about fair. I mean given that they have the right strength requirement to offset it. Yeah
Hmm
Up this says sup my regan. I have a feeling I know what that's backwards
Scene joker four times when joker is being called to be on the show
I'm pretty sure his master baiting in the back. The only thing that makes him happy now. I don't get how this movie is are rated
Probably the scene where he stabs the person in the neck several times with the scissors. I imagine that's what might have been that
Maybe just maybe several extra shots into murray probably made them go. Oof
Uh, what is the policy on elevator music? Is it only used for wolfish's rag arguments or is it something else?
May the don't be with you. I did specify that earlier
I think it's saved for when the argument almost comes out of nowhere in its nonsense school and get kind of hilarious
in between two people usually
Typically speaking I try and if i'm not in the argument then um
Uh, it's better much better than if I am because it's kind of it seems kind of weird
We have the one time when me and rags were arguing and wolf tried to play it through his own headset and it came out horribly
So, yeah, it's this specific requirements is complicated
Uh, thank you for always keeping it long and uncut
I was wondering if any of you massifs had an opinion on captain christian and send my love to wags
I don't know who that is
Me neither. It might be one of the there's a couple of comic books that are very christian
You know based and might be one of those but uh, I don't know
Uh, it was spelled with a k the christian, I think
Okay
Uh objectively the subjective is the big gay also high rags
Biggidius second book of the dawn. Oh, that's a quote. See yeah
directly from biggidius
Biggidius, I didn't get that
What's difference between luke pulling his saber to him without seeing that trick versus ray doing a mind trick
Without seeing it hate tlj. Just wondering. Hi rags
So one is clearly more i'll let you go
I was just gonna say luke has explained the basic concept of the force and in that it's in everything to a degree like
it's all
there's lots of uh
Rhetoric or well, I guess explanation that obi-wan gives that could lead you to understand at least variations of how this thing will work
But the key thing for me
Is that luke is already reaching for it. Like he's he's just trying to get at it anyway and that the um
The idea that the force goes beyond the physical there's a lot of um
implication for this is desperation like the fact that okay
So the idea that something is very close to you
But just out of reach you may try to go for it anyway
And there's a good chance that if the force is a real thing you might start to feel something that you weren't actually going
For if you know what, I mean, and then you're like wait
Let me really concentrate because something's happening here and I know that the force is a thing as opposed to ray who just
Decides that she can mind control like mind trick like when
And she doesn't fail in her attempts luke actually tries a few times
Might be he tries really hard one time doesn't do it and then just to kind of calm down and refocus try again
And so it's shown that luke is actually struggling more
And it's more difficult for him to pull it off and on top of that
There's a whole new like like this is a second movie
There's been a big gap of time between the first movie and this one
And which is it's kind of very evident that luke has been trying to practice with the force between that because it started with you
Know obi one giving him pointers and then in figuring, you know, trust instincts luke
You know the end of the first movie and so it's quite evident that it was being practicing through that time
And that's a much longer period of time with ray
She's introduced in that movie and in that movie before she really
Even knows what force is and what it can do and what it could do and what her capacity is for it
Bang, she can suddenly force mind people and like whoa
Fails the first attempt. So there you go. Did she yeah, she tries it once and then he says something like i'll tighten your restraints
Ah, okay. My bad
Anyway, luke struggles more as well. No, I don't even care the fact that she struggles to achieve it the first time
And it's only the second because there's just no through line
I don't understand how she just decided that was a thing she could do. Where did that come from?
Yeah, did she have any indicate in inclination that she was force sensitive to begin with?
I'm trying to i'd have to think back on the scenes. Exactly. My brain is a little bit melty right now
I can't remember any uh any clue that she was
You know for stuff but me in the chat if i'm wrong but up to that point
I really don't think so
I don't think there's a rat. Oh, maybe her mind meld with um, kylo. She starts to read his mind in reverse
Well, like he see this is what I think that they could have done is
Have kylo
Give her mind control commands
And she's like, what are you doing? And he's like confused. He's like
Like this has no effect on you and he's like, uh, that's you know
Like the only way this wouldn't affect you
Is it but basically just have him perform the move?
And so that even then i'd say that would be way too quick for her to pick up because that's
You see it's implied. That's a pretty advanced force ability. Yeah, but at least you'd be aware of it
You'd be like, okay
Um
Kylo gets yeeted down a pit, but patrick williams survives shake my head. Fuck this timeline
Also, hi wags invite jay so we can kick him and hello all my n-words
Yeah, I I agree with all of that
110. Um
Yeah, also just to echo what you said
I really don't want to understate how much the gap in the films really helps the believability of it
Yeah
Like think of what you could possibly learn if you're I have access to the force and even even being alone
Just testing testing testing testing testing
Experimenting trying all this stuff. I'm just like you have to give some leeway that something's going to have happened
um
Efap's not ending right? Everything will be okay. I'm afraid we will be ending in
Under 30 minutes now
Uh, good night your massives
Guys why are we talking about efap 61 efap 62 is on yes, that's true
Uh, so if you guys are accused as alt right, but also alt left, does that make you alt middle hashtag alt middle after all?
It's the best part
Full middle. Yeah. I mean, yeah, we are. What are its interests? Say, there we go alt middle
That's the that's the we can just knew we are the alt middle
the extreme middle
Eagles were isolationist even Gandalf couldn't get their aid at times
Also, the idea was to destroy the ring in secret and the eagles would give it away
All right. So first of all Gandalf couldn't get their aid at times. That is not translated in the films
No, it's not
And the idea was to destroy the ring in secret and the eagles would give it away. I mean how
Flying toward mordor the idea is that they would be spotted
Didn't they fly really high up?
Yeah, I we kind of addressed there's a lot of ways they could have flown and uh go on unknown
All i'm saying is like short little trips is that I feel like the ideas weren't addressed by the characters in a satisfactory manner
I would have loved it if you had an aggressive
point from el rondo gandalf about how these eagles are not our toys and that um
You know something to imply that they have their own sort of ideas and civilization that they don't
The gandalf it's just some some stuff because it's such a
Such a thing that just makes you go. Hmm
Well, if we're gonna point out things that don't exactly work perfectly in lord of the rings
I get annoyed with the inconsistency of gandalf's magic
That's one of my pet peeves magic system is pros possibly the biggest floor of the lord of the rings
The magic system is very unclear
I mean
Gandalf has shown that he can heat up people's blade
So they have to drop it and that is deflected arrows and he's made energy shields
That's protecting him from battle rogs and all these really cool things that he only uses once they're all one-offs
And like when it comes to the point where it'd be really useful when it's like fighting the lich king or something like that
Like gandalf you have some stuff up your sleeve
Well, let alone the hobbit movie is what they established gandalf can do and then that's just ruins it even further
Yeah, even wolf has said that uh, lord of rings magic system is not strong
whoever
And that's the thing it can be you can make magic systems that are much more restricted and understandable
Ask rags the use figuratively for literally question
I can do that. I don't know that he'll be on board considering how much he despises people who use literally to me not literally
It's like he like
He was uh, we had a guy come on who we had covered and he used it in a sentence
And like I think rags like bit his head off and he's like, why are you so angry videos?
He's like just don't use that that way
For dawn's sake cover houston productions one and brown table tlj videos it's luke
height a tyler
And himla came back from the death and denied the hollow hole hollow cost. Yes
Um, yeah, we can you know the possibilities we still gotta do shawn's tlj video and jenny's one
We got so much to do guys so much to do
uh, why is land
Why is lando's daughter not half millennium falcon?
I don't think that's how it works
Uh objectively the best scooby-doo is the robot chicken special and the one with john cena saving them from the boulder trap
I haven't seen it. I haven't seen it either. There's a good chance. That's true though
Shad awaiting your coverage of duku versus anakin and obi-wan in both episodes two and three
Dooku with limited appearances had a better narrative than snoke
Oh agreed
That like i would like to do it
But there's a couple more larger scales and more kind of uh, you know fights that have a bigger presence in pop culture
That I want to cover before doing one that are a bit more smaller on the scale like it
I I think um, uh da mole versus obi-wan and qui-gon is going to be
Well before duku and anakin and the unfortunate thing is I did take a
Brief small little you know, look at the daft mole one with from an objective standpoint really breaking down and wow
Obi-wan is doing some really bad spins there
Is looking good for the review. Sorry guys
Like he was doing good really good spins in um
The fight on mustafa with against anakin, but they didn't really have that in the first movie to buy a look of it
Um, and yeah, I was just saying that duku is way better as like an established character than snoke
Um, oh yeah by far. Well, and yeah, I quite like the uh, the fight in episode three with duku
Um, but yeah, these are all things that i'd be like well shad tell me how well they did
Um, I take it back the johnny bravo scooby-doo episode was the best
All right
Uh kiwi farms documents and laughs at internet weirdos one of the last bastions of free internet left out there lots of doctors as a consequence
Laughs at internet weirdos. I'm assuming i'm an internet weirdo. Damn
I'm, okay with this
high rags
Ra can destroy diabeto by roofing him at mustafa. Yeah, that seems to be the narrative right now
That's where he would do it
Uh, please do an efab where batman eats toothpaste
That's the okay
More quests, uh shadow bursty and vice don 2020 jeb bin zim will rise
Wait, does this mean that you'll be president and the don will be your vice president?
Oh, hey, that'll be a pleasure and a privilege. Yeah, i'm all right with this
Yeah, uh, i'm drunk and ordering tacos loll. That's all. Hi rag
Okay, tacos. I love tacos
Yeah
uh
i'm fallen order illam jedi crystal geode homeworld is confirmed star killer base under the nose of both the republic and luke's jedi order thoughts
Oh, i'm assuming that's uh some some lore from the game
um
Yeah, I mean i'll be interested to see what the game offers about stuff like that
Suggestion. I hate cycle of base. I'm sorry. I hate it too
It's ridiculous. Um
Suggestion three movies machete one and two fun stuff
Have you seen any of the either of them?
No, they made a second one
They did it's called machete kills
All right, yeah, okay ridiculous films, but again lots of fun you can get from them
Jay this is the frozen machete not to petition
That's how wait that's where we're at with the super chassis we can't because I feel like we're actually getting kind of close to you
But yet 20 minutes remaining i'll keep on going movie bob is type 15 diabetic. Oh
I did not know that
Um, how much would you guys pay to watch episode nine with a crying trailer guy?
Oh
I mean, I don't know because that would be frustrating probably because he would be crying throughout the whole film about how amazing everything is
Um, I don't know if I like I'd get bored and i'd be like I don't want to leave now
I don't know how much i'd pay for that probably wouldn't I just be like i'm good. I can imagine it
You can only put out with so much. Yes
Um after my fourth super chat on the subject watch hardcore henry dumbos, we will get around to it
Sure of it
Birthday time this one's for rag
All right
Uh much birthday messages. This one's for mutually
Thank you
And this one's for shad. Oh, by the way, i'm getting an english bill. Can't wait to start practicing hema
Oh
Nice english bill hook a very classic icon weapon used by the more common
Soldiers and stuff good stuff. Yeah, I made a I made a video on it recently actually
Uh
Alex from I hate everything just a two-faced disingenuous liar. I wouldn't go that far
He's a little bit clumsy with how he talks about things that have happened
i'd like to believe
That he's made a few mistakes in regards to like recanting things that have happened between him and any of the efap people
but um
He's also a little shy
And getting him to like
Come on here or talk about things is very difficult
But um, he does seem a little bitter as well at certain times and I
It could make him look that way. We weren't impressed the last time we looked at what he had said about
Uh different things on his podcast, but um, I don't know if I go as far as saying he's a disingenuous liar. It's like
It's a tough claim, but there's evidence that could point that way for sure
Um, I would touch wags as map
Oh, I'm sure you'd be okay with that depending on the person
Um chris's film really comes to show how little he understands film he's become the same arrogant tone deaf director
He thought he was fighting against
You know about this hang on
Chris stuckman is this film out?
I did not know this. Yeah, the short film is uh available
Is it good? Well, we've got a video on it
Do you though?
So if you it's only 20 minutes the the original if you watch that you can watch our coverage and see what we thought
All righty
Um, I wonder if you've seen has been hotel is not great review and has been hotel review response by
P. K. Russell basically a guy did a bad review of an adult cartoon, but his defense was reviews a subjective
Oh, of course he did
Yeah, you can't get anything wrong, hey
Um birthday money. This one's for jay. I request a special polite asking of him to leave
Well, see he left before we could do that. What do you want from me? I don't do anything
I to request an asking of jay to leave
Invite jay so we can kick him only allow jay back on stream if he can defeat diabeto in mortal combat use my noose
also high wags
seems fair
Um, and this one's from my favorite green plague man. Frogled. Please amputate my legs. So I don't have to work anymore. Yay. Oh
People are going to the extremes man if you say so, yeah, I got some swords that'll help in that. Yeah, that's true. Uh
All right, um a big f for those of us on discord last night who attempted to read movie bob's first book
Yes, there's more. I think I almost fell into a coma
He's written a book. He's written several
Has he there's some of this really weird he apparently compared
mario brothers 3 to 9 11
Oh, so they're not there what in like review books. They're not like
Think so
What you could call reviews combined with like
Memoirs
This is really weird
Um, I don't know. I did look into it. But yeah
Movie bob's one of the most unique human beings on this planet in a bad way
Okay
I saw shawn stream a fallen order and he's genuinely terrible at what he does
It's three hours of dead air and small comments about the game. Also. Hi rug
Yeah, that's the thing. Um
I think shawn would be another example of a person who in the videos seems like could be confident could be uh
personable and get along well, but then you meet them in real life and they're probably someone who talks barely at all
And uh likes to avoid sort of maybe a social environment. He does like i'm just saying it
Seems that way from what i've seen in his videos, but I could be very wrong. Um
The personality in the video isn't always the personality that you get in like a live setting I guess
Can be complicated
uh
Good evening fellow incels and hello rags wanted to ask how to get a meme on efap thoughts on jojo rabbit
Not seen it neither is shad, but we both hopefully will eventually
And the memes are best sent through the the discord twitter or the subreddit. I try and keep track of the lot
I can only do so much. Sorry if I miss it
um
Matt smith is a young clone of the emperor. Why?
Don't know
Oh
Is that the actor they get to do what I don't know. It might be matt smith
Like doctor who yep
Sorry, i'm sorry
Um as a as a willy the flutes are the objectively inferior genital slang
All right. Yeah, his name is william. So he would know
um
I'll boost myself a little bit apparently. I'm starting a bit quiet. I think it's because I am um fighting the urge to sleep
Uh long roof is one of my favorite ancient scholars
Make sense
Have you guys watched taxon's video on rags? If so, are you planning on responding seems like he has more than a few tismy takes
He's gonna have to wait
Or gee, sorry. Um, it's gonna take some time for us to
Get through a lot. I've got a lot of efaps planned. I mean, it's funny
This was a planned efap to have shad on to talk about this video and as a result this one
We've got a new one planned now for that other video. So
And it all goes into this big selection i've got and it's tough because i'm also trying to evolve new guests and
The thing is like we i've said this before we didn't cover the tro video on uh rags
For like I want to say half a year or something. It was it was a long time
And we only covered it because enough people thought that there was good arguments in the video
Who were fans of ours and we were like, all right, let's tackle it and it was awful
So if enough people were to say something like that or if a narrative was fun, it's like this this destroys rags
Then yeah, we'd be more rushed about it, but it's just it's such a bad video. Um
The arguments are so thin and and the conclusion by the way is that rags is the worst youtuber on the platform
And like yeah, you laugh because you're like, oh, come on you can dislike it but the worst come on
So, yeah, we don't take it that seriously, but you know, it's i'm not gonna say it's impossible, but I have been getting the impression
That it's a little bit of a feed the troll scenario
Uh taxon's been very invested in plugging and chipping away at efap whenever
Possible and uh, i'm getting the impression that it's to
boost the old channel
Instead of actually addressing issues and stuff
Anyway kicking on uh, take some cash my g's and have a good thanksgiving. Hi very much
Uh, hi rags. I hope I haven't acted too much of a tism on discord
And a question have any of you played pokemon sns and what's your take if yes?
Rags hasn't played it and I don't think he gives a shit about pokemon. Uh, we did address this a little bit earlier
I think someone asked about it. So
Hopefully the question has been answered. But yeah, not huge pokemon fans here. I don't think
um
I loved the first well. I love pokemon blue yellow and gold. They were the ones I played the most
Back in the day
Hi rag recently got divinity
Os2 after watching your vid and i'm greatly enjoying it though. The physics and magic armor negating. Oh, wait, you know, i'll just save this question
But it's a phenomenal game divinity original sin. I I love it
Divinity division is really is much better than the original and the original is great as well. It's it's all good
Uh wags measures come in liters confirmed also high wags
I mean, I don't think he's gonna deny it
Uh throwing in shekels during my break. Love you guys. Thank you very much. Oh, thanks the lesbonios get them
it yes, the lesbonios the uh
You can't have lesbonios. Uh, who was who did that come from? I think it was uh
Someone I want to say it was like a content creator
My brain would be able to recall this I can actually feel
The mechanics in my brain are moving really slowly
It's like brain shows slowly dying searching files and i'm like, come on braid. What are you doing?
Um
Oh, yeah batwoman that was a there was a restaurant owner that doesn't like uh lesbians
I maybe gave people in general and I was like, oh no the lesbonios
Um, what's your favorite tea maula? I don't have a favorite tea
I like a lot of different ones if i'm gonna drink it, but I typically don't even drink tea
I'm a failed britishman
Um, also high wags
There's one episode of scooby where velma says it's old man so and so but it's actually a random guy and they never met
And velma got salty saying it didn't count
Uh is scooby-doo is awful fight me
Don't at me. Yeah
Don't at me. That's the one I should have said. Uh, is scrappy-doo saying puppy power the dog equivalent of him saying white power
Oh, no
What's he?
Uh night
Yeah, go ahead. What I'll just say he's literally referring to he is you know, kind of uh
It's not exactly racial type but it's uh
Something it should be condemned you are right. Yes, it's horrible
Um night I look forward to this being read on efap 64. Oh, no, we got you in the same one. We nailed it
Rags don't insult hitler by comparing him to the unspeakable evil of scrappy-doo also. Hi
I like beginning scrappy, but when it's just him no. Oh, so when he was first in it, okay
Um, I am liberty prime
I will accept mod status to defend the chat against chinese invaders and remember death is a preferable alternative to communism
Oh well
Um, it'll be pending again. When are there more people and impression?
Again, when there are more people and impression I think that's in relation to the scrappy-doo thing is the same account
Uh rags any chance arch will join efap. He almost did
uh last week
um, because there was a couple of guests dropped out and we we just cycled through a couple of possibilities we let people open and
Uh, we will get him on it'll happen. There's a lot of people we're trying to find the right time and place for
Epstein would be the perfect captain cutler on an account that both aren't dead and both would pretend to be their own ghost fitting
wouldn't it
Sure
Let's get epsated to a lot of uh
Bait's troop storylines potentially if the episode nine leaks are true
Apparently ray didn't love ben enough to save him nor did luke or leah or han so much for that theme
We'll see. Uh, i'm assuming they're gonna contradict heavily odd stuff to do with fably. It's gonna be amusing to say the least
Uh maul and rags, what do you think of star wars jedi fallen order apparently wolf hates it, but he's wolf
So yeah wolf's gonna make a long form review me and rags are intending to play it. He's gonna do it for review
I'm gonna do it because I want uh to get through it and to have footage. So
That question will be interesting in future. I didn't know wolf didn't like it. I've just been hearing good things from it
So he's played it to death. He wants to play it more to death
He's got a lot to say about how everything works in that game
And I think his conclusion is that we've we're we're reaching so much bad star wars content that even mediocre star wars content is looking
great
Um, but I don't want to put words in his mouth
Like i'm not sure if he's saying that at all. You'll have to check his twitter takes on it
But i'm pretty sure he doesn't like it
Um, interesting. Yeah, we've got
Just over seven six seven minutes. We won't be able to get all of these but I can get close. Um
I want to be the hulk because of the prawn apparently
Oh, yeah, that was something we covered on efab as well. That was I am that robbie. I think that's efab like 28 or something
so much lore, um
Knights of ren golden company snoke jaws sequels dark fate pandas su polio watson vader all my sanity
What wins the title of most redundant?
Redundant, uh, that would be
I'd probably go with golden company
Because in the season they were hyped up
Beyond belief and they may as well have not even have been there
They did absolutely nothing and they were like a tenth of what they were promised to be in size
Like you can't get more redundant than
You are deleted by happenstance
And nobody even cares
She's just like, okay
um
I do like good arthur, but I came for a bonfire
That's with a clown face as well. All right
All right
Diabeto can vote for every type of diabetes he has
Oh, so he can vote he's got 15 types. He can vote 15 times. Okay. I understand
Um, just wanted to say astartis was hacked or is still hacked. Yeah
Well, uh, we'll obviously be keeping an eye out sucks and I hope it gets sorted out youtube could really
Afford to lend a hand there. Um
I'd use the n-word pass to read the sith dagger then use it to destroy all of jj's recording equipment
So we don't have to finish this trilogy. Oh, yeah, that's a part of the leaks
Uh, the efap meter better be 12 hours minimum or else
Oh, we probably would make it really long to be honest with you
If we did it, uh diabeto is just baby galactus learning the ropes
Makes sense to me
molar
molar fingers rags halo 3 flood door
My goodness. I don't really know what that means exactly, but it sounds horrifying
Um, I know the flood though. They're like the zombies of halo. I follow some of it. Yes
Uh, please look up harman smith for future efap, please
Harman smith. I mean I can have a look not sure what i'll find with that
Uh, I meant to say rank them in order of redundancy
The star wars movies
I mean would would could you say any of them are redundant like oh wait
Sorry rank them in order of redundancy the the selection you gave me
I can't do that unless we have a really long answer. We might you know, i'll save the question see if I can do it with rags
um
Another point I can probably answer another three or four maybe more if I go a bit fast
Um
Lava does not contain sugar diabeto has no power over it
Lava kills many creatures build fire resistance for that one ra and may the dawn bless you. Yeah, it's just advice on how ra can
Get rid of the diabeto problem. I suppose
Uh, here's your tracker for the start of episode 62 super chat
146
um
Didn't make it 146 I guess. Oh, I guess 146 but which time zone
Oh
A porg jenny jar jar scrappy bob stuckman hybrid
Why would you want that? Why would you even suggest that?
Uh wolf's new catchphrase. Hello all my fellow steamboats
Has wolf seen him yet? No. No, I don't think so
And yeah, I don't think he was there for that
Was he there for memes or did he go?
No, I don't think he saw the steamboat thing. No because ben was there so and he missed that
um
Which would you rather admit tlj as a cinematic masterpiece or argue for the positive merits of homosexuality to ra on the top of a
35 story building
I can go with the second one. I had a fun with that
Sun god isn't gonna throw me from the roof
I'd go the second
Uh loving vincent equals 2016 van gogh oil painted movie. Oh, yeah, I heard about that look really cool
um
I'm all a high rag still cashing up at the 52 happy to see wolf come back as we all
Come back as we all were. Oh, yeah. Yeah, everyone's really happy to see him back and
hopefully in future too
All right running close to the end here i'll do my best uh shad of you plans to be at the abbey next year
Missed you at the recent one much sadness
I don't know yet. Unfortunately, my health is actually a bit on the downside these days
Uh, and so we're not sure if i'm gonna be up to traveling
It's just like i'd love to try i'd love to get there, but we just need to figure it out
Yeah, I imagine it's a lot of fun seeing you at one of those things
In all that was massive. It was such a good success as well
So if i'm going it'll certainly be announced though
And high rags high muesli, hello
Uh, hey mola, I don't know how often you watch anime, but what got you to watch one punch man?
A friend of mine highly recommended it but so check it out. I think with most the anime I uh looked at
So if major lee looks at women what jeb nickels look at she looks at major lee
You see that's how that works back to back
Nearly out of time. Uh as a fellow ozzy
We leave the toilet door open in case of spiders snakes box jellyfish and drop beers for easy escape
Yep, you have to just take them account
I will jump a little bit ahead to read this one rah said this is for christmas toys for the shadlings if they're into
That kind of thing and you uh drop fifty dollars. So
Oh geez, that's very similar
Pass that along we'll talk about that as soon as the stream ends, which is going to be in a couple of seconds. So
Um, thank you everybody for the kind donations. I will read the rest
There's not a huge amount this time, uh on the next efap, which will be a week from now. Hopefully
We've got memes to cover. We will sort them out in the next one. And um, yeah
thank you everybody for staying as long as you did for for keeping up with us and um
Thank you for the guests of which many have left gone to sleep and woken up or gone to the jobs and come back as naturally
They do
Um, it's been a lot of fun
And uh, yeah, we will catch you again. Thank you shad for hanging out with me so long as well
I really appreciate it, dude
Being an absolute pleasure, sir, and I will see you guys later as well. Goodbye all and have a good one
