the infamous Turkey Tom, so that'll be fun.
We have quite an interesting chemistry,
so I think people should be entertained by that.
Okay, it should be working this time around.
I am encouraged to assume so anyway.
Well, I mean, you can probably keep track of the views, I assume.
Oh, there's people talking in chat, which is enough.
Well, yeah, people in chat are clicking the links.
I mean, easy peasy, squeeze the lemon.
Hello, everybody, even though we're still going to have to wait for a bit
to let a couple fall in.
How did, out of curiosity, did you ask to go on drink a peasant, or were you sent?
Someone, I think someone's state was like,
who do you want to come on?
And someone was like, the right opinion.
And then they added me and said, do you want to come on?
And I was like, sure, I don't care. Why not?
You'll come on to anything, including...
Yeah, I mean, yeah.
I'll come on to anything as long as, you know, we don't get too extremist,
which, you know, I don't consider eFap.
Six million wasn't enough.
I think eFap was pretty controversial.
All right, guys, I've loved it. It's a great time.
I haven't watched the other episodes, so I wouldn't exactly know.
I would never have.
Maybe I should have. Maybe...
Oh, well, I mean, you could have watched the ones about you if you wanted,
but I mean...
I could have, but it would have been bad for my grades.
Your grades?
Yeah, because I had classes and exams, and that was kind of the priority, you know.
And...
You know, I might catch up with them in the hot days,
but right now, like...
Because actually, grades are doing well for, like, the last six and a half months.
The grades have been really solid, and I was like, I don't want to break this.
Equally, I know that watching your video, you know,
regardless of what I think of it, it will probably be quite like...
It'll be quite a drain on me.
I would imagine, yeah.
Yeah, and I didn't want to get into the wrong mindset before these things.
And that, you know, I completely understand why you responded,
and I don't oppose that at all.
It was just...
It was just probably, like, I had to put myself first in that instance
and just keep focus on what should be, like, most important to my future currently.
Fair enough.
I think audio levels are all good.
Rags, do you want to just, like, say hello?
Hello, everybody.
You're probably the loudest. That's good.
That's a rare occurrence.
That's the way it should be.
Yeah, you don't have to do anything.
I can control it, thankfully.
So, yes, despite popular assumptions, TRO is here.
You can see him. That's his icon.
No one else can have that.
I mean, I'm in person.
I mean, you could copy me.
I mean, you could find another smug British person to take my place, but...
Colossal's never going to come on here.
Yeah, well, I mean, I think he mainly wouldn't come on mainly
because he just can't be bothered.
He's always off in some foreign country doing business deals.
He's an interesting bloke.
Oh, for Tia, I reckon I'm lower than you two.
I mean, is it really bad?
Could you guys just sort of deal with it and put the microphone right next to me right now as well?
You sound fine to me.
Yeah, you sound fine to me as well.
That's weird. I'm not sure.
These things just, like, change between streams.
Like, I don't do anything, but it's just like, no, this is happening now.
I mean, are you streaming an OBS?
Yes.
You can check the levels, I think, on the little front control panel.
Yeah, the levels.
I look to be peeking around about the same place as you guys.
So that's why I figured it was okay.
But if not, then...
Well, I mean, how many people are saying that?
Like, what's the general consensus?
We've got, I can hear you.
You sound really arrogant to me for some reason.
Not better. Sounds fine to me.
It's fine. Audio's fine.
All right, if enough people say just fine, then we should be good.
So, yeah.
So anybody who's suddenly jumped to this video and is like, what?
They're not talking about the Vox video.
I'll just put a timestamp in a pinned comment so you can jump to that,
if that's what you were looking for rather than what we're going to start with,
which is, first of all, Rags, happy 10th episode of eFap.
We got to 10.
It has been 10 episodes already.
Oh, beautiful.
It feels like just yesterday we stumbled upon this format.
What would even was the first episode?
I think Jared Jettis was in there with...
Was it Patrick Willems?
That was kind of what started this, wasn't it?
Something like that.
But at the beginning, it was kind of mixed with Wolf's podcast too.
Yeah, it was essentially...
It was kind of like your streams where you respond as well.
It's not like this is new.
Everybody else has done streams where they respond to videos, but...
I don't know. It's sort of just...
But ours are full of high-tier content.
I mean, the similar factor is we respond to video essays.
That's the main goal.
We wouldn't respond to commentary videos or something,
because that would be strange.
We wouldn't respond to let's plays.
That would also be strange.
Good.
Or political videos we don't really cover either.
I don't know what you would call that video
where we looked at the guy who said that
The Last Jedi can't be hated if it's being bought.
Remember that?
It can't be hated if it...
Like you said, it can't be hated that much
if it's the best-selling Blu-ray of 2018.
Oh, that short one. Yeah, that guy.
Yeah, that was the 12-year-old caught in the 35-year-old man's body.
Yeah, the first three or four episodes didn't even have a name,
but we've come that far.
What does eFap stand for out of interest?
Every frame of pause.
Wow.
That should be something that's in the description,
because a lot of people don't know.
I'm planning on revamping the descriptions
and the thumbnails once I'm done with TFA,
which means, you know, expect it within the next few years.
We will sort that right out.
But I do actually want to spruce up eFap
because it's been a lot of fun.
I like eFap.
And as for the...
There's many people asking about not only when will Wolf come back,
but will we respond to Eric Taksin's video on Wolf?
Wolf's obviously on his hiatus still.
He's obviously going to come back when he wants to come back,
and that'll be the video we cover alongside...
I've heard it's horrible.
The main gist I got from it is that Eric Taksin thinks that Wolf's argument
is that if you force a woman into something,
it automatically becomes bad.
And Eric is like, no, that's bad writing.
It has nothing to do with whether or not she's a woman.
And that's accounted for in Wolf's video.
It's not a surprise because Eric plays about three minutes
of Wolf's 18-minute video, I think it is.
Yeah, because Wolf's video is pretty good.
No, yeah, I quite liked it.
And it's not...
I didn't even think it was that controversial.
It's just like, stop going so heavy on...
The way to fix this product is to now make them an X thing,
which is never something...
I think I go over in my actual TFA critique that I see that as like,
what happened with Phasma?
All of the promotional material about Phasma,
they can't resist saying that she's a girl,
and that's why you should see it.
And it's just like, you barely even...
She's not a character,
and you can barely even find out that she was a girl anyway.
Yeah, people like us who don't like the Last Jedi,
we hate women.
At least shouldn't have told us at all.
That's the result of why you hate women.
It should have been a reveal at the very end, like Metroid.
Like, oh god, it's a woman.
Oh no, this whole time.
I knew there was something off about her.
I knew that we should have...
It was the reason I hated Metroid.
I knew, there was some aura coming out of her.
So yeah, just so people are confused in the background,
we've just got the video from TRO playing
matches what the conversation's going to be about for a bit,
which is going over pretty much everything that happened.
And yeah, I was going to say,
I did talk about the Eric Taxon thing.
It's going to be asked again and again,
so we're probably going to have to say like,
every episode until Wolf comes back.
So at least you guys know who's listening.
I followed this.
I do not have a clue.
Don't worry, this is like introduction stuff.
Once we get this out of the way, you'll be fine.
I mean, that's fair enough.
Yeah, no, it's all right.
I'm just like...
I clearly don't follow YouTube enough about this.
Eric Taxon, Dishonored Wolf, and all that.
Not the parts that matter.
There's such strange connections because I think Eric Taxon is like,
at least acquainted with H-Bomb a guy who's like,
doesn't like me, and then I'm friends with Wolf
and it's like a completely unrelated connection.
I mean, the only thing I know about Eric Taxon is that he makes music.
He does? Oh, cool.
Yeah, I think so.
Because I followed music critics quite closely
and one of them that I used to follow
seems to be acquainted with Eric Taxon
and has reviewed some of his music.
So that's like...
I was thinking to myself for a few minutes,
like, I know Eric Taxon from somewhere
and I think that's where I think he makes music.
So there you go.
It wasn't a great sign that his video...
He disables ratings on all of his videos
and he's got a video apparently where he explains it
so we're probably going to check that out as well
before judging anything.
But I don't know why you would disable ratings in a way.
Because he knows that it's going to be low
and he doesn't want people to see that
and so he's coming up with some crazy reason about,
oh, here's why I don't want...
Wow, rags.
Do you hate women?
Yes.
Bigoted bastard.
I can't let somebody choose to get rid of their ratings.
This is, this is, this is, this is going great.
Excellently, I should say.
There was one thing I wanted to clarify
because I read on the other podcast.
It was like the whole thing about Force ghosts
and whether or not they could interact.
I really actually don't have a definitive answer.
I don't know.
I just know that if you say that Yoda can do
what he can do in the latest one,
it just raises questions of why he didn't do it before.
You know, like the idea of,
what does Obi-Wan mean when he says,
I cannot interfere?
What does it definitively mean?
And does him talking in Luke's head count as interfering?
Because that's kind of what my argument was.
It's like that counts as interfering
when he chose not to with Vader.
Because, you know, when Luke is like,
Ben, help me when he's like,
nearly fallen off Bespin.
I don't think he was expecting much more
than Ben just turning up in his head like, yo.
Like he did in, in Hoth, when Luke was nearly dead.
You know, that sort of thing.
And Obi-Wan was just like, nope, not doing that.
And I assumed it was because he decided to go off
on his own sort of thing.
But again, totally more to discuss on that
for anybody who's super into the Star Wars lore.
So yeah, that's, that's about that.
So first we'll go over, I guess, what, what,
what even happened?
Like it all, it all began with the fateful day
that Ryan Johnson released his movie.
And then.
It sucked.
And then I think tiara's gonna have to remain neutral.
That he's like, I don't really, I mean,
I'm not, I'm not here to do face about that anyway.
So it's not.
And then I hate everything put out his video,
which was like, I think it was intended
to be a response to the toxic fan base element of it.
Correct?
I mean, I mean, yeah, I mean, that was the intention
from what I understand.
Unfortunately, it's clear that that, that didn't,
that didn't quite come out the way he didn't.
He'd completely get out the way he envisioned it.
Definitely.
I mean, when I spoke to him,
the main thing I said to him that was trying to get
the point across for why it was confusing
is he involved a couple of things that are sort of
like wrenches in the point as in like, yeah,
he has some defenses of the film involved when it's like,
if you're just making a statement about how people
are being way too toxic, so you don't even need that,
but you threw that in there.
It's like, okay.
He also threw in that he says,
so I think it was something like something backlash,
like insane or vicious or excessive backlash.
And he had like a screenshot of reviews where people
were saying like, you know,
Luke's character was assassinated.
Or I thought the film was blah, blah, blah,
like relatively reasonable statements.
Yeah. Yeah.
And so again, you just be like, huh?
I mean, I think it's one of those things.
It's about like, for me, it was at the time,
I just kind of identified the overarching narrative,
though I understand that there was,
there were details where,
where he should have kind of been clearer.
And I've been victim to that too,
with some of my videos that I'll probably address in the future.
I'll try and like make an overarching narrative,
but I'll, I'll end up like falling down with some of the details.
And even though I think to myself at the time, you know,
I've been pretty clear here, whether it's,
whether it's the nature of some people or whether,
whether that's just where it is, people,
people do tend to like,
there are like things where people will like say, oh,
so what are you actually saying here?
And so it's, you know, I think it's one of just,
I think it's just the nature of being a YouTuber, you know,
it's all about clarity.
And I think, I think, you know,
it's fair that he can hold up like, you know,
I'm trying to say, you know, I should have been clearer there.
I remember watching it and just being like,
what in the hell are you trying to say? Like,
and genuinely coming to the conclusion of like, well,
that was a pretty borked video because it sounded like he was trying to say
that The Last Jedi isn't that bad and that you're all being too mean
and loves everybody into the same sort of audience.
Generally, I think, I think the issue was that he,
he kind of completed a few sets of arguments.
And in the end, he was like, what he tried to say was basically,
the hate isn't justified because the film isn't that bad.
Now, because I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not here to say like whether the film was good or bad in a way.
But the problem is that that in itself is like,
is a bit of a strange argument to make,
because to me, at least like the key, the key point of view for me is
the fact that it's, it's a piece of, you know, generally like it's,
it's not, I mean, to me, at least to many people, it's, it is,
it isn't like inflicting hatred towards anyone and therefore, you know,
nothing like that is justified.
And I think everyone like generally can agree that the death threats and stuff
like that is not.
That's actually where I would sort of begin. I'd be like,
isn't it redundant?
It's like saying it, given a death threat for basically any film,
that's just a fictional fantasy sort of thing.
It's just like, well, yeah, anybody's doing, like, you know,
the point about someone said the Wilhelm scream wasn't in the film,
making it bad. It's like, why even, you know, actually we could,
we could address that if you want.
Like Rags said several times that,
why address these comments and your response was they exist.
I mean, yeah, I mean, one of the things was at the time,
it was like, to me, from my perspective,
I saw and, and, and that,
I put that argument forward at the time very poorly and retrospectively.
It's like, for me, it was like, wow,
I really should have worded that better.
And at the time it's like, when you pick the comments,
when you pick the subject of the matter that you're going to argue,
anyone can pick those and argue those.
But at the same time, once you pick that,
you can't suddenly bring up irrelevant points for me.
What I viewed as those comments to him was the source of the argument.
And therefore he can,
he can use them in that instance to make an argument from them. However,
I kind of like use the phrase like he can do what he wants,
which is a terrible thing to say without a doubt.
And I really should have worked out how to say you're right.
But obviously Rags was gunning for why, as opposed to whether he can.
And I think, I think the reason why at the time,
especially from, from his perspective was that,
was that he was kind of trying to use them as like, rather than it was,
it was complimentary to his point. Like he was,
he was saying, look at how bad this hate has gotten. You know,
don't you think we've gone too far?
And so an additional interesting point there is that,
we never actually see any top comments that are vicious.
I think the best he showed was like a comment that said something like,
you know, kill yourself. And it was at like four while like,
and then of course the Wilhelm screen, that's not even, that's not even vicious.
That's not aggressive. That's just stupid. It's like,
if you said the last Jedi is good because it lacks the Wilhelm screen,
I'd be like, what the hell are you? Either way, it doesn't make sense.
Yeah. Yeah. And I do, I do understand that.
I think for him, it was like picking,
because he, he problem was,
he kind of picked a few different arguments and conflated them.
I've already used the word conflated, but we'll use it again,
because you know, it's true. There's a, there's the question about nitpicking,
which is a legitimate argument. You know, we can have that discussion.
There's a question about going too far with the hate and use,
and the Wilhelm scream in a way is the question of nitpicking and
but I don't even consider it a valid complaint. You're like, uh,
with nitpicks are often considered to be something where it's like the,
you know, the car in the background, Lord, the rings, it's a nit pickers.
Like, oh yeah. I mean, I mean, yeah, I mean,
whether or not a Wilhelm scream is there like what even, what,
I mean, yeah, it's, it's one of those things. It's, it's not,
as you say, it's not really a valid argument, but let's, let's say, you know,
the credence. Yeah. Um, for the credence, we,
we give it like that point and say, you know, it was a,
it was a fairly minor minor thing to like,
say that the film wasn't good providing that that point exists. Um,
I I'd say that that he kind of tried to fight too many points at once while in
a way effectively not kind of successfully fighting the points at all,
because the greater question that surrounded his,
his argument should have been a question of like,
has the star Wars fan base become to, um,
become too like either too hateful, either too nitpicky.
They're different things in themselves.
And if he kind of shaped a video around that specific argument,
there could have been some credence,
but the problem was he broke kind of broke it up,
as you say, with the, with, with the review of the film, um,
and tried to make the argument that it wasn't that bad,
but in a way people have already made their mind about the film on that
behalf and the people who are going to be sending hate messages and,
and so on. And, and, and like nitpicks and all that,
they're not really necessarily particularly can,
they're not going to be,
they're not going to have their mind swayed by, by IHE's arguments.
And I think that was the problem. It was very disconnected video.
And I completely like retrospectively going back a set that that video had,
it had its problems without a doubt.
And although I do understand where, what he was trying to say,
and I'll always communicate that the best way I can, um, you know,
it's, it's, it's flawed and it's, it was,
I think it was detached most importantly in its points of view that it was
trying to address.
Uh, yeah, well that's,
that's pretty much our conclusion because I'm pretty sure that's why Rags
wanted to make his video.
Yeah. And I, I don't, I don't really like, um,
I don't really like take issue. I never really took issue with the fact,
like people want to make videos on these things. Um,
and I think obviously like, you know, that's,
that's completely your prerogative. Um,
but I guess I took issue with,
with just the delivery at the time. Um, and I, I felt,
a lot of people that asked me like, why did I make the video?
Because there are very few videos that I've watched and I thought to myself,
I want to respond to that because very few videos provoke strong feelings.
At the time that video provoked a strong feeling in me because as someone
who is a friend of IHE. Um,
and without a doubt is biased to that extent.
I completely accept that, that I have that, I have the bias. I try to,
I try to alienate myself from that, but you know,
it's always going to be hard to an extent. Um,
I mean, I doubt we're going to get you to say tonight that you think it's a bad
video from, I hate everything. Like that's not really the intention,
especially because you're friends with him. Uh, yeah. And, and obviously, um,
the, the issues, the issues that I had mainly came down to the fact that the,
that it was given the fact that I know IHE and I know what he's like as a person
and I know his, um, and I know his stance is on stuff.
And I know that he's very like Mark Manden.
We found that out, you know, like, obviously this is skipping the timeline a
little bit, but like when I got to speak to him,
me and Wolf managed to get very clearly what he actually felt.
Yeah.
He just didn't convey it faster in conversation than he did in his own video,
which is the interesting part. Cause it was also proof by you as well. Right?
Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and it was, uh, it was, uh, it was, it was decent
conversation that, I mean, I think,
I think the mistake was that happened so late at night and, and, um,
and we should have kind of scheduled it a bit more clearly and just,
well, you know what happened, right? You remember why?
Yeah. Well, no, I completely understand like why it happened then and there.
But if I think maybe if we take a step back and thought like, you know,
let's just try and maybe, maybe be a bit more cautious with how we arranged
us. Like we may have been able to get a bit more clarity on, on the, you know,
I am on board with that 100%. But again, just remind the,
and you did, you did heart the comment. Uh,
he called me childish, arrogant and condescending.
Yeah. Yeah. And I can, I, I completely understand like why,
why we had that, that cool down there. Um,
maybe, and I'm not necessarily saying like, oh, you know,
it was unreasonable because in the, in the circumstances, like, you know,
I would, I want to do it as well. Um, but.
In hindsight, I would have said, let's, let's,
let's do it like maybe like around this time.
Yeah. No, I think, I think that makes sense.
I've always wanted to have another conversation,
even live with him just about that was,
but I think Stiles has melted his brain for the most part.
I think, I think, I think it has. Um,
and I think it's kind of exhausted a lot of people understandably.
So it seems such a,
such a specifically interesting topic to have such vigorous debate over,
but no rigorous, rigorous, rigorous debates. Um,
and I did not get that much sleep last night, unfortunately. Um,
and, and therefore I think it, I mean, it's, it's,
it's exhausted me. Um, but I've kind of,
I kind of gone through that stage now. Um, I'm fine.
I find it fairly like back, like placid about it again. Um,
which is, which is typically my, my general, um,
my general, uh,
approach. Uh, I guess I just guess I just,
I'm fairly, I'm fairly placid person.
There are just a few things that will rub me the wrong way.
And then I'll get,
then I'll get bowed up and then I might make a video and then I might start
making a video and then be like, hang on a minute. I'm just pissed off.
I'd say that applies to me and rags. Like we were relatively chill,
but there'll be things that'll piss us off every once in a while. Yeah.
Yeah. Um, I was going to say timeline wise then.
So rags makes his video and I did watch rags as video as soon as he came out.
And I was relatively,
I was not only happy with it because I'm pretty sure he gave me quite the
promotion. So it helped my channel grow, but, um,
I thought he was giving some less, so like this, this definitive analytical
counter, more so rags operating as the audience being like,
what are you saying with this? And then what,
there wasn't much analytical to respond to really.
And so like, uh, the way I said this in the two streams,
and I was just going to see what you take on it is it's like, um,
I hate everything sort of rambled out some thoughts and I'm not trying to say
that, uh, in a critical way. And then rags did a response to that off the cuff.
Play his video and then say what he thinks. Play it.
So you got thoughts on thoughts and then you did what I would call an
analytical response. And so it's like almost chaos because it's, uh,
so much in fear and son on all ends, which causes, um, I mean, you know,
I think I've already told you, but I shouldn't be a shock to, to,
to be aware that I think the video here lies rags. Stop hitting what I like.
Special guest. I kind of hate that video.
That's fine. I don't blame you. I don't, I don't blame you for hating it.
You know, it's less to do with you, but it's obviously still to do with you,
but it's more to do with the different elements still to do with me. I mean,
it's, you know, I, I take responsibility. Um,
and if you hate it, you hate it. It is what it is. And we have,
we've had this discussion like about this before, like,
what should we do about it? And in the end, no, we came to the conclusion.
No, people just got to judge it from their own perspective.
And if they hate it, they hate it. And you know,
it is what it is. As a video to me,
it was an important step forward for my channel.
At the same time, it was an extremely messy,
disorganized step forward for my channel.
And it gave me,
it was an important learning experience and it gave me a lot of time to
reflect on, on how to improve my content.
If I wanted to do it in that style in the future,
we couldn't, I was going to say, cause this, I just,
I already know that there's going to be people in the audience who are like,
why isn't more asking specific? And I'll be like,
let's get a little bit more specific so that I make sure that these things are
covered. Um, we'll start,
I'll just start with a couple of easy things. So like,
there's this idea as we were approaching the video that, um,
we really couldn't tell exactly how you were approaching
rags as videos. And was it chronologically or was it that you tried to sort of
section off portions because like, um,
we started trying to find the timestamps of his video in order to like do a
little bit of checking and like,
we would have nothing to work with cause it could have been at any point if you
know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
I tried to follow the video chronologically and that was the general approach
that I'd taken in that moment.
But there were times when I kind of called back to previous moments and
obviously that I did section it off in a way, um,
because of editing. And I know we'll probably get to the editing in a bit. Um,
but, uh, yes, those were the main reasons I approached it chronologically.
Uh, I kind of, I hope that was somewhat not one of them.
I hope that was one of the less debatable things,
but yeah, there were moments that I went backwards and said, well, he said,
he said this there and now I stand this Hill. Someone, someone did that. Um,
pretty much.
Have you around the problem that we had was we had no idea where like we had no
idea what the structure was or how it was going from one thing to the next,
or if we were going,
we had no idea where in my video that this was a response to where I was and we
were constantly having the issue of we don't know what I'm talking about because
in the video there'd be rag says X and then there's just a clip and I don't even
know if I caught a sound bite more than a clip of me just saying X and we would
have no idea what the context would be of me saying that would be there's to sort
of bolster that the idea is like,
there is a point and I don't blame you for this because it is a criticism.
If it's valid, uh, by responding to every single sentence of someone's video,
you can miss certain things or at least misinterpret certain things.
That was a criticism I got for my response to H bomber guy. However,
it does mean I play every part of the video.
So you have every single quote as the audience and, um,
our problem was we were like, wait, so did rag say that?
And then this became way more of a problem when Quinton was introduced because it
started, he started saying things that we knew we didn't say.
Okay. Um, with regards to what I said,
what happened and I'll be perfectly candid here was that I wrote out the
script with the intention of paraphrasing what rag said to make it clearer.
I had, and obviously with every single thing I said, um,
that I, I sought to make it very clear what rags went.
I never sought to misrepresent anything rag said, um,
on the other. And what happened was when we got to the editing process,
I was like, actually,
I feel like we should play clips here of these things.
So as you say,
people don't have to go and check if rags actually said that.
And yeah, yeah. And, and basically it created a very confusing dynamic where
I would say I, there were situations I tried to,
I tried to edit the parts out where I said rags said this,
but equally I,
there were parts where I left it in and it became very confusing because I
would say something. And then I play, as you say,
I play a clip of rags and like, you'd like,
why did I need to announce what rags said? And,
and, and so it was, it was for me, I,
I had a big problem with, with,
with structural confusion with how I was delivering it in a way I did what I
thought was the best that I could do with regards to it. Um,
but equally if I had approached it as a response video and,
and clip response, um, clip response, uh,
clip response, um, it would have been a lot clearer.
And as someone who was trying to like go into this new genre,
I can completely accept why that would have been tonally confusing and they
complete fuck up. I mean, I would totally recommend just, you know,
if you find yourself saying they said this, be like, Oh,
just may as well play the clip. You know, it'll take the same amount of time.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully.
And, um, that's, I, you do not,
you would not believe how much I cut from that. I really did.
I really tried to like cut it down. Um,
because at one point it might, my audio was over like, uh,
two hours and I really did cut down what I, what I said.
And I did want to make it clear the points that I was responding to, but
I think too, especially because,
because time does eventually become an issue.
One thing start getting long like this would be the things that you
seemingly reluctantly agreed with me on. Don't bother even having those.
Just play the parts that you either have contention with or the parts that you
didn't like. Which does bring up a point.
There was a strange pattern with your agreements with rags. Yeah. I mean,
the problem you would do, sorry, I'll be quick. It's okay to admit I'm right.
You're at your agreements with him seemed very backhanded as in, say,
for example, I hated everything about rags. And then he said two plus two is
four. I'd be like, well, if we consider mathematics,
I suppose you could definitely use that in a context where it would be
acceptable. And it would be like, do you agree?
You know, like, yeah, I, I completely, I completely understand that.
My approach was it to it was like,
I didn't want to necessarily go out to disagree with rags on everything because
I, I don't disagree with the frags and everything. And yes, as you say,
I could have cut it out,
but I didn't just want it to be necessarily a complete hammering.
But then again, on the other hand, maybe,
maybe that's what it needed to be in a way to create a cohesive narrative on the
and back to my, my side.
I just felt like I wanted to kind of give it as,
as fair an approach as I can and say, well, you know,
he's not wrong about everything. And I didn't want,
and the problem was I didn't want people like when I approached this video,
I didn't want people to think, oh, he's,
he's just picking out the points where he disagrees with rags and he's
presenting it in a biased fashion, which once again, like I, I'm,
I'm biased to an extent. I'm not going to completely admit that.
But on the other hand, I didn't want it to go that far into the whole,
into the whole, like just absolutely unequivocal hammering of him.
Yeah. I guess you even you're here.
So sort of, sort of, you could like two choices would be one to be like,
I don't disagree with everything in this video.
I'm just going to highlight the things I do disagree with. Or like I said,
the way I did with H bomber guy would, would be, I just play the clip.
Say he says a dark souls is a game created by blah, blah, blah, this date.
I'm just like, yep, that's true. Moving on.
I mean, yeah, I think you're kind of,
it's kind of a situation with, with audiences you're damned if you do and damned
if you don't, because if you, if you do admit that,
even if you make that sort of precursor,
people are still going to think that you're being unreasonable to an extent by
not presenting the points that you do agree with in a way.
But on the other hand, equally,
it does does kind of create a bit of an inconsistency with the tone of the video.
So I kind of, I kind of accept like in a way the logic behind both points,
but, but I, I, I still, I still kind of like feel that, you know,
saying, you know, I agree with him on this was,
was a reasonable point of view at the time,
although I completely understand if, if you feel differently.
You, I mean, you already sort of mentioned it, but like,
do I, I won't say anything.
Like what, what is your sort of comment on the editing of the video?
Like, what would you want to say?
Yeah.
It was the first time that I used multiple editors for one video.
Nine, right? Yeah. Nine, nine.
Or you do any editing?
No, I, I, little,
little fun fact is I've never actually done visual editing.
I always do audio editing.
So that was a grueling task.
But, but I've never done visual editing mainly because of a few things.
Firstly, because university, it's very time consuming.
And if I want to put out like long videos on a regular basis,
you know, I have to have some help with that.
Secondly, I've lost my train of thoughts.
This is why I shouldn't look out the window randomly.
Yeah. Editing.
Editing, visual editing.
Why don't I do it?
Secondly, it's something that I really don't enjoy.
And that may tie into the third point that I do actually have problems
with visual processing.
And I have a tendency to zone out on a regular basis,
especially when dealing with visual cues.
So there you go.
Those are the three reasons why I'm not very keen on visual editing.
Though I will, I will be taking it up once I get some more time.
Cause it's, I've never come across it on YouTube before.
You're the first person I've ever seen that has not only an editor,
like when you went to the point where you hire, hire a team, for example,
like I know there's other people who do that,
but you've got multiple editors in one video, which to me is very strange.
Cause you just talked about tone, like being important.
Yeah. As you say, it was, it was a tonal mess.
I mean, we've taken up some really, like, if you, I mean,
you watch my recent videos, um, more like, I, I've taken up,
we've taken a very clear like approach to how to the basics of editing.
Like for me, um, I spoken to a lot of people who watch my videos and they say
like a bit of like, like, you know,
want it to get too monotone. Um, so they kind of like it when,
when there's a different, different style,
as long as it's grounded in some fundamental appeal and some foundation
there. And so what we tried to do is establish a very clear foundation and
then give a few creative, uh, differences and say, you know,
that's, that's all right. And, um,
the feedback has improved with regards to like what people think,
of how it's worked together. But the problem was with that video,
there was no foundation. Um, um,
my video. Sorry.
Well, my video was the foundation, wasn't it? Oh,
oh, with regards to editing style. Yeah. Like how many cuts one would make,
or what format of, of bonds and movements. Yeah. Yeah.
Not to mention like it, I, I, I, um,
I do, I see where you're coming from, but like, for example,
the one where there was a, there was about a five seconds, uh,
part where you started your commentary while rags was still talking while
there was relatively loud music. And like,
you just couldn't hear what was happening.
The music was a, was a mess. Um,
I say like, I completely agree that the,
and I got the feedback and, and I, I,
I've taken heed of that.
And whenever I get a draft through now and the music seems too loud,
I'll say back, I'll say, you know, we need to,
we need to turn down the music a little. And, um,
I've completely like taken that on board.
Music was a mess and there were, there were some errors. I mean,
many of them like still did a good job.
It was just the problem of combining so many different elements.
Into this new video, um, into this new style,
it was, it was bound to totally be very inconsistent.
And I completely, completely concur with the concerns voiced.
Uh, so that's sort of covered the more ironically,
cause of this was gets discussed in the video that I consider the sort of
visuals to be superficial compared to the writing in a film.
Like Quentin had a huge problem with that. Uh, but likewise in your video,
if the editing is bad and the music is bad and the whatever else,
as long as the writing is on point, I would still be fine with it. Um,
I was going to ask you again, just your, your, your, your opinion on this. Um,
I, I tend to, I, I know a couple of big words cause I, you know,
I like English and stuff, but there are some words where I'll be like, oh,
I better not use that.
I actually don't use that. Um,
I like English and stuff, but there are some words where I'll be like, oh,
I better not use that.
I actually recently re-recorded a line while I've been making my part one
because I was like, I don't need to say that. That was a little bit much. Um,
I've only got the one cause I, I'm not trying to nail you down on this.
I just want your perspective. So you said, um, on about one of the responses,
I, uh, rags, how do I write everything? You said they were clearly perceptively
anodyne statements and it's the kind of,
I must've, I must've been feeling, I must've been feeling jacked up on my own
ego.
You must've, yeah, very 19th century.
I genuinely, we had to go look up what it means cause I don't know what anodyne
meant. I was like, uh, I could guess, but like, wow.
And perceptively anodyne, I was like, I don't know,
even sure how often I use perceptively. Like I know what it means, but
Oh no, I use perceptively all the time. Admittedly,
I do not use anodyne commonly, but I use perceptively a lot. Um,
I like, I like the word perceptively, but anodyne. Yeah.
And there was a couple of instances. Like the other one was when you
referenced that I had everything had completed his narrative tripling.
It was a sort of like, oh, tripling is, is, uh, it's like, uh,
it's not, I'm not asking you to explain it. I'm asking what do you think about
the idea that like, do you think that maybe you're using sort of terms and
phrases that are just going to fly right over an audience?
Maybe, maybe that's a, that's, I mean, that's a fair point.
What we've done now is when I sometimes use some more complex words,
we throw up a little definition on the screen. Um, we're gonna,
what we're going to do this time, like, um,
the only issue is sometimes we've done it and sometimes been too brief.
So we'll try and keep it there for a bit.
So if people want to pause it and read the definition, then that's,
that's good. And people say to me, they say, oh,
I've learned a new word from your video today. And I'm like, well,
I think that's, I think that's a good thing overall.
If I help expand people's vocabulary, let's do it.
If you make, if you make them look it up,
then they're not learning the word from you.
I'm still inspiring them to learn.
He's letting it because of you in a way.
Go to a dictionary. Yeah. I mean, they, they seem to, I,
I think we had to do,
I would stop your video and we had to go to Google, which,
which we misspelled the word because no one's used that word.
And we were trying to find out the phrase and that it does,
it does take away from what you're trying to say when people either have
to, you know,
when people have to pause to look it up and if they don't look it up and
they don't know, then they don't know what you're saying anyway.
Of course, people don't seem to phase by the fact,
if they have to look it up,
but equally what we do now is we try and put the definition on the screen in
case people are confused.
Maybe I should have put like a little,
a little bit of glossary at the end, at the end of my videos,
maybe in the description. No, no, no. It's as simple as saying,
if you want to, if you want to use an adjective for like harmless,
then you could say harmless or anodyne.
Cause like, you know,
if you were running a channel where you were like the weird of the day is
anodyne, you explain what it means. Then you're like, all right, guys,
on with the actual video, you know, that would be fine.
But if you're trying,
cause the whole point is you're communicating an idea in your video, right?
Like, yeah, yeah, of course, of course. Um, like,
I do understand that. And, um, we have tried to, it's for me,
it's like a quirk in a way that kind of,
I don't want to just be just delivering a narrative.
I do want to have these things. And, um,
even if like in a way, some of you it is impractical.
Generally the reception I've got from it is positive,
but also I do understand that I could do it more efficiently,
which is what we try and do now. We try and put the definition on screen.
If it's a bit more of a complex word, um, which yeah,
I feel, I feel kind of kind of helps and you know,
people kind of enjoy it. I haven't received complaints about it.
So, uh, obviously just because I haven't received complaints isn't,
it doesn't mean it's not problem. But on the other hand, um,
generally I, I, I don't,
I personally don't view it too much as a problem,
even though I do accept that obviously there are efficient ways to,
to, to deal with it. It's not a big point.
It was just something that we noticed.
We can, we can now move on to the, the big points.
I know these are the ones that people wanted to hear. So, uh, you know,
let's get it out of the way. So, uh, the best,
I'll give you an example to work with instead of just, uh, you know,
some kind of accusation,
but the idea is that me and rags wouldn't mean it means that we have like
90% of what we have to say is probably going to be more so about him in terms
of grievances. Now there's this bit that you may remember where, uh,
I hate everything says that, you know, people hate porgs,
even though porgs are harmless, they don't even affect the plot.
And rags his response is that, uh,
isn't it better if they did affect the plot as opposed to simply existing to
make toys, you know, be more meaningful.
And the example obviously is he walks where rags is like, yeah,
he walks a better. And I had everything's like, no,
he works a worse because they affect the plot.
So your response is, well, I don't know what I hate.
Everything would say about that, you know, and that's an interest.
That could be a conversation, but nevermind.
Then that's where that ends because that's as far as it can go.
And then Quinton comes in and says, he finds it interesting.
And I had to rewatch it again to make sure I get the quote down.
Um, he says that rags is saying that a film is objectively without value.
If it sells toys.
And then he says like, how stupid does rags have to be to not know that
Star Wars has always sold toys.
The movies have always sold toys.
And it's the kind of thing where he goes on for like a good two minutes
about his history with knowing about the toys and how we should have seen
this. And this is just, it's like, it's got nothing to do with what rags
said.
Okay. I need to think about this.
And obviously I guess the question comes down to like, do you,
did you see this when you were editing?
Cause you, you had a great response to rags.
And then would you not have seen Quinton's and been like, oh,
that's not really what rags were saying though, Quinton.
Yeah. Like I don't want to seem hyperbolic,
but pretty much everything Quinton said was either a straw man or a
non sequitur or it was just some random tangent or it was a flat out lie.
Okay.
Give me a sec.
I'm just, I'm just rereading the script currently.
Um, because no, I mean, if you want my first response, no,
it didn't jump out to me.
Um, because I didn't.
So it was like to clarify rags is cool with film selling toys.
I think.
I mean, yeah.
Like I'm in and Quinton even went so far as to say like the films,
like he mentioned capitalist.
He said they weren't.
Yeah.
He said that you were like criticizing it for being capitalist when this
is star Wars. And it's like, I don't think.
Okay.
Okay. I'm just trying to work out what the arguments.
Uh, you're from, um, okay.
So Rex's point was the shore.
They were made to sell toys, but wouldn't it have been better if they were,
if they were also, uh, to influence the plot.
Mm-hmm.
And Quinton says, so the idea of someone saying that the star Wars film was
quite objectively supposedly morally worse because those you say it louder.
Oh, sorry. Sorry. I'm just, I was just reading to myself.
Also the idea of someone saying that the star Wars film is quote objectively
and supposedly morally worse because there are parts intended to sell toys.
And that's not as much as you've got the script.
That's not what he says in the video.
He says objectively without value as if rags said that.
Did he say morally?
I don't remember him saying.
This is just, this is just the script.
So he may have like changed the wording in delivery.
Yeah. He probably, is that his script?
That was his, that's what he wrote.
Oh yeah. If that's what he gave you, that's not what he stuck to.
Okay. Fair enough.
Good job, Quinton.
Okay. I'm not, okay.
So I guess, I guess it was, it was a, I guess he kind of reversed it.
So essentially you were saying it would have been better if they'd influenced the
plot. Um, and I guess he reversed it and said, well,
because they don't influence the plot, you're implying that it's worse because
of that. That would be how I, how I would interpret his arms.
He's, he said that I don't feel like a film can have any value.
Objectively.
If it sells merchandise.
Yeah.
Okay. Let me see if that he says that.
It's already high, mate.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. And I'm happy to hold up my hands and say, you know,
I should have betted the narrative more tightly.
It's okay though. I can get you the timestamp.
And also, also the fact, the fact that it happened, you know, yeah,
I get it eight months ago, like,
Um, and then obviously there's the one I, I don't know.
Did you check out the timestamps I gave you for the other one?
Oh, uh, no, I did not.
Well, it's, it's, it's okay. I'll just literally like assuming you trust me,
I'll give you the context of all of it.
I mean, I mean, you know, we, we have the video.
I mean, I, I can, I can, uh, give me a sec.
Are you actually playing with audio?
No, no, it's fine. You don't need to. I'll, I'll literally just give it to you.
It's really simple.
Yeah. I know. I turned, I turned the audio off so I'd be able to.
Yeah, that's fine.
Clear a discussion.
Leave him. You're okay. Um, so the, the three clips,
the first one is, um, rags responding to,
I hate everything who said the throne room is amazing.
The whole fight's amazing.
And rags was like, uh,
they didn't even use the force in that fight and then moves on to more
criticisms of the throne room.
And then we go to your video where, um,
Wynton says the rags, um,
complains that, uh,
there's no use of the force in the fight between Luke and Kylo.
And then, um,
he plays the clip of rags saying they don't even use the force in this
fight.
And then that's it.
And, um,
I think I told you about this.
Like it's,
you did tell me about this.
Quinton did actually mention this to me. Um,
cause he did, I think he watched part of the, well,
I know he watched part of the stream.
Uh, he said it was a legitimate mistake and therefore I don't know what
else I can say about that.
Like you can,
you can judge that explanation for yourselves.
Well,
if you had said, you know,
my mistake,
I'm happy to believe you,
but like I don't have much respect for Quinton.
I don't believe,
we don't believe Quinton is his lying snake is what we're trying to say.
I mean, you don't,
you don't have to believe him.
I mean,
generally my perspective is that,
um,
it would be such,
such a pointless thing to,
to lie about that.
I don't see why he would intentionally do that.
Again, like just an idea.
I think that maybe the editor was supposed to find a clip that represented
that and rags never said it.
So they went with that one and they were like,
out of context,
that does sound like it could be referring to it.
So that solves the problem,
but it could be the editor.
But then also Quinton goes on a diatribe about how wrong rags is for saying it
when it's,
it's like,
he's got nothing,
nothing to jump off from.
So it's like,
Quinton could have been like,
use this clip.
It's good enough.
I know.
Um,
it was the,
the,
it wasn't Quinton didn't have any influence,
uh,
in the editing.
I thought you said he made the process.
Oh,
oh,
um,
yeah.
He said to me,
he made a legitimate mistake.
What happened was that he,
he wrongly said,
like,
watch that.
And then the editor just,
as you say,
picked the clip to fit it.
Um,
I don't think he edited his own parts.
I,
as you said,
so when he provided his clips,
I don't think he edited his own parts.
I'm pretty certain because what happened was,
um,
we had to edit his parts in with my parts and therefore the editor,
the editors did that.
Um,
just to clarify,
it seems quite likely.
Quinton had little moments where say like he would say something,
then a clip plays,
he says something and then he has,
would he not have provided some notes?
Like I want you to play this clip here.
Or was it literally just,
he gave you lines.
He must,
he must have specified where he wanted his lines to play.
Right.
Like how else,
I can,
I can,
I can link you the document and you'll see,
I can take whatever your word is like it.
What I'm saying is if you told me to provide some commentary on a part of,
let's say the new Marvel film,
and then I write out my thing and then I go,
this is for this scene.
And then you go,
Oh, okay.
Then I'm like,
play it after Iron Man says this and then play the second part after you
play a clip of blah, blah, blah, saying this,
like Quinton must have done that.
Right?
Because otherwise his words won't have any context.
No,
um,
because we were following pretty closely chronologically,
I can,
I can check.
I think.
And there is a section to snaps his fingers and it's supposed to go to a
clip of me saying something.
So there was some kind of a,
I'm going to have to ask the editors because I legitimately don't remember.
Um,
this is,
this is very,
this is,
uh,
I'm probably still in touch with a few of them.
Yeah.
Um,
so I'll,
what I'll do,
I I'm,
I'm really confused now.
I've confused myself.
Admittedly.
Um,
and like how it was made.
Yeah.
Yeah.
As I said,
like I,
I want to be clear that I wasn't happy with the production of the,
of the video.
And well, you know, I was,
I mean,
I was happy in some ways,
but in the other way I accept that it is,
um,
inadequate in many of its production values.
And unfortunately that was kind of the output of just it being the first
time I ventured into something like that.
And I'm happy to hold up my hands on that behalf.
You know,
like if I say,
um,
God model movies suck.
And then you respond to that with every one of them really.
And I go,
I mean every one of them,
that's like a completely reasonable sort of a progression of conversation.
The two examples I gave you,
the reason I gave you them was so they were so blatant.
Like how did Quentin do that by accident?
It's like literally someone saying something and then you just completely
change it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not even a little bit like rags.
You,
you responded to rags properly in the toy one.
And then Quentin just went off on this insane rant that had nothing to do
with what rags were saying.
Yeah.
Whenever he was on screen,
we just knew we were in for a ride to wherever like me and Rags can't
know for sure if he was either lying or if he was just incompetent.
But I mean,
the evidence doesn't look good for him.
Let's just put it that way.
I mean,
I understand like,
why like my,
my,
my,
my knowledge and like my experience with Quentin is that personally,
like I don't think he would,
he would lie about it simply because I don't think there was that much
to gain from lying about it,
particularly if you were,
you were always going to make a response and we always anticipated you're
going to make a response.
And we always knew that,
you know,
if that was something that was a terrible thing to be caught out on.
And so,
yes,
I don't think he would intentionally lie about it.
I mean,
I just think it would be so easy to,
to,
to pick it out.
My,
my,
the reason I started my YouTube channel is that I cynically believe that a
lot of YouTubers will just try and convince people of a narrative.
Like,
I'm trying to dispel them as I respond to different things.
I'm like,
this is not true by the way.
I think Quentin was just like,
ah,
fuck it.
Like you've seen the comments on your video,
right?
Like those people hate rags.
And I think that that would work just fine for Quentin.
Who's going to care about the comments on one of the eFap videos?
Quentin can ignore that.
Quentin commented on it.
I showed you it.
Yeah.
I think,
I think one of the things is the,
is the,
I do think the saying like,
Oh,
well someone's been dishonest or they've manipulated something here.
That's a reasonable point to go because then you're dealing with
the interpretations and that becomes a lot more murky.
But him outwardly lying about something I don't necessarily.
Well,
of course you can't confirm or deny.
I don't know.
He said to me it was a mistake.
Obviously,
no,
you're not under any obligation to believe that.
And to be honest,
like given,
given like the whole experience of this back and forth,
I wouldn't blame you if you didn't.
But from my point of view,
I don't really think he would lie about that because it becomes.
I don't buy that.
I don't buy that about Quentin for one second.
Let me ask you this.
The entire video was him.
Like every time he came on screen,
he would misrepresent or completely misunderstand,
or he would go off on some totally random point.
Like practically every time he was on the screen.
I understand he's your friend and he was obviously your guest.
And you promote each other.
Why would you ever want to say,
yeah, he's lying.
But let me ask you this one question.
You think there's anyone on planet earth that would recommend Quentin say,
yes, I lied.
You got me.
Oh yeah.
Without a doubt.
Nobody would recommend that.
That's just a bad move to me.
I completely understand that the Quentin would never openly admit he lied.
It was just from my perspective,
like like thinking about it.
I can't ever see him willingly lie because I think it's such a bad look.
And I do understand to an extent your point of view that, you know,
people are almost driven by the predetermined ideology.
So they don't care if the person on their argument side lies.
For me, like I just don't think Quentin would do that with that perspective in mind.
I totally without a doubt think that he would.
And that's pretty much as far as we can go.
And that's okay.
I'm like, yeah.
This wasn't like a one time thing in this video.
Again, like every time.
Yeah, no, I do.
I do understand like the points about manipulating and misrepresenting.
And Quentin knows that when he says something,
he'll get away with it for the most part because the people who see it first
will just run with it and they'll take his word for it and they'll go for it.
Yes.
I don't, I, yeah.
And I don't, once again, I don't disagree, but it's just,
there's a line where you go from kind of manipulating misrepresenting,
especially like, because we were talking about this,
this point, which was the merchandising,
which, you know, you've,
you've raised a fairly like decent point about how he's misrepresented that
point of view.
And I completely understand that.
Get it out.
You, you know this very well, but like,
did I not ask many times to talk to Quentin personally before any of this
happened?
Oh yeah.
He's just, he's just not.
What I'm saying is like, just to confirm, I did give this a chance to be done.
Yeah.
I can give you, I can give you credit for that, but it's doesn't, doesn't.
Yeah, I don't, I, people.
Right.
Yeah.
He's a fucking asshole.
I think, I think I just,
I think he doesn't like you very much.
I get that.
No, he does.
This is what we're saying is that he was motivated to make us look really as
bad as he could.
I mean, the thing is, the thing is that's,
that's why I don't think he would willingly lie.
And, um, and I understand that there is points against here,
like manipulating misrepresenting.
Then I completely understand those.
The problem is like, when you willingly lie,
you completely open up yourself to backfiring.
And I just don't think he would have logically done that.
What?
Why not?
Because I don't think in his head, um,
he would, he would see it as actually beneficial to lie about something like
that.
No, I think logically there definitely would be a huge benefit.
It's, it's like I said, his fan base are going to get over it.
They're not going to care because he can just say,
Oh, that's not what I meant.
They've taken that out of context.
I mean, oh, yeah, I completely understand that.
But if we're talking about like specifically like with this one clip,
then I think that could be a legitimate mistake.
I, I do understand the problem is you have like lying about the facts
and then lying about like, what can,
what can be, um, concluded about the points.
And I don't think Quinton would lie about the facts because I don't think
that would be beneficial.
What you can do is like make these inductive fallacies where you say,
well, because they said this,
they must therefore believe this.
That's, that's something that I do completely like take into account that
so I may, may do, but,
but I don't think he would,
he would lie about the underlying facts because I don't think that would be
beneficial.
And I think at least you said he considers it a mistake.
At least we've got that.
Yeah. I mean, yeah, he's not,
he's not saying you've taken out a contest.
Um, he says it was a mistake.
What I was saying is that he could, um, it's almost like I could respond to
your video and make you look like a five out of 10,
or I could really, really lie.
Just, just pieces and bobs here and there and involve some truth and make you
look like a two out of 10.
And I think Quinton took the latter option.
I think the thing is that,
that, um, that definitely there are,
there are ways that you could lie about someone with regards to what can be
interpreted from what they said. Um, and I do agree there.
Generally my feeling is that I do not think he would have said like, um,
will it like, mindfully, especially as it was, I mean,
that specific instance was a one off. Um,
I, I do legitimately believe that was.
Um, well, no, I mean the,
sorry, both one offs.
The, the, the two ones I gave you the two blatant ones that were like,
I mean the toy, the toy one is like, that's, that's, that's different though,
because that's him like, that's, well, that's,
that's him suggestively lying about, um, what Rags was trying to imply.
Well, I'll just, I'll just lay it out.
What Rags says it's more meaningful for them to be important to the plot.
And that's it. And then Quinton extrapolates,
I was a film with objectively without value.
If it sells toys, like that's a, that's, that's more than an inference.
Yeah. There gets to a certain point when you're like,
you're just making shit up.
Yeah. Yeah. And I do, I do understand that point of view,
but it's when you come to the point about inference,
we can see that he's not like said, like, for example,
Rags in the, with the, with regards to the other example, Rags has.
Let's talk about this example.
I know, I know, but I'm trying to, because you said comparatively,
um, both of them, and I'm, I'm happy to come back to that example, but, um,
but if we, if we, like comparing the two, um,
you've got one where he, he says Rags said this, but Rags didn't.
Yeah. On the other hand, that once or even implied it. Yeah. No, no.
Quinton said that. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm not, I'm not, yeah. And, and,
and that was regards to the throne room. Um,
and then you have this one where it's like, he said Rags.
Oh, I thought you were talking about the other thing. Oh, I'm sorry.
I think that's a level that we're at.
I think what you're saying is we can at least see how Quinton got to the
toys response while the other one has just been invented. Yeah.
And that was, that's my point. I agree with you in theory,
but like it would be like someone saying, I own a car. And then I go,
he eats cars. It's like, well, it's still about cars. Yeah.
But I still consider it a blatant lie because Rags didn't even come close to
saying, I mean, sure, sure. I, but I, for me,
it's more like the logical line of this.
And that's probably why I didn't really pick it up. It's it read,
it read plausibly to me. Um, unlike the other one,
which is just a direct contradiction of what happened. Um,
and so I wouldn't necessarily like conflate the two. Um,
and I, I, I do not, I do not believe what, what he's,
he's done done here. Obviously like that, you know,
he's clearly willingly done that, but I do believe like the one way he said,
Bragg said this and Rags didn't actually say that that once that one,
I probably would side with him and say it's a mistake.
I mean, you're not going to want to believe that he's like a piece of shit.
Cause I mean,
you wouldn't necessarily want to be friends with pieces of shit.
Like you've got reasons to assume he's a good guy. Of course.
Of course. If you, if you want to, if, you know, if you want to,
I mean, it's not never a case of if you want to, I mean,
you go and go, go and hate, go and hate him. Like, like I think the feelings
mutual, but, uh, well, I mean, I have reason to hate him.
He has no reason to hate me. I don't like a film. Get over it.
And I know that's ironic considering the whole reason the oldies videos
started, but literally like, why has he come so hard after me?
And it's like, oh, it's because I ripped into the last jet on my five hours.
I think, I think generally, um,
if you want, like the reason why, and it's just,
it, I think it was because of his, his original last should I video.
Um, I think we've had this discussion before. Um, he, he,
he just had such a like, uh,
I think he got so frustrated with a lot of people's responses to that.
And a lot of them, um,
I want to, I know, I know this, I know this. He, I think he just,
he just like kind of like really got annoyed by people's responses to,
to his video linking my video to him, which that has nothing to do with me.
I know. And I completely agree.
I completely agree that once again, that's not,
that shouldn't be on you necessarily. Um, and then what,
what happened was, um, the, this, the, the parody he did of you, um,
which was a failure. And, and he,
he, again, reasons for me to hate him, not versus once again,
from his perspective, like his parody was,
wasn't, wasn't meant to like be malicious. No,
it was kind of taken the, I would love being as fair as I can right now,
right? If I didn't know what I know, I'd be like, yeah, absolutely.
But, um, he put out a tweet just a few,
like a week before you released that parody saying that, um,
he's not interested in listening to a pseudo intellectual British man talk
about Star Wars for five hours. Now you could be like, that's a joke. It's
like, no, he's already, he doesn't like me. He's already shooting.
You think it, do you think it's an accident that you're in here defending
him on his behalf and he doesn't have the balls to do it himself?
I mean, yeah. I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna ask you straight up.
I mean, oh, once again, once again, like, is that what a pallet has?
I mean, Quince is just not interested in, in the, the whole, I mean,
well, I say that, I'm not going to accept that. That's ridiculous.
He's not interested in it.
No, no, no, no, I just, yeah, he goes, I do understand that.
And once again, like, I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what he's interested.
He's interested in sniping from a safe place.
That's why he's in your video. That's why he's on Twitter.
That's why he wants,
I think he's in your video as opposed to making his own because he felt like
that was a good vantage point to shoot from.
Absolutely. Because he knew that you would take the majority of the flack
for it, which is why you're in here.
Arguably. It's what's happening right now, which again, like I said,
I have a lot of respect for you.
I'll take, I'll take the flack and no, no, you're not,
you're not taking the flight. We're not blaming you for him.
He's he, you're, you're his scapegoat essentially.
Yeah. I mean, the way he's using you, mate, I mean,
which that's the thing, like we're just kind of doing our own things now.
And that's what the problem is.
I mean, the thing is like, to me, I, I don't really,
let me give you a sec.
Let me clear up my thoughts and I'll try and lay it out.
Like as, because, because I'm getting carried away.
Point of being was like at the time,
Quinton was, was a fairly,
was a fairly sizable channel.
And someone who I, I,
I was on good terms with always been very friendly to me.
I understand not, not the same experience with everyone.
He wanted to come my video and he,
he stated his intention and you're completely,
you're completely right on this behalf.
That he, he kind of wanted to,
he kind of wanted to do it on my video because,
because he,
he didn't necessarily like really want to have to deal with it on his
channel. And, and I, I,
and I completely admit that, uh, at the time it was a mutually beneficial
thing. Um, because, because, you know,
it was a collaboration between someone I like and so I still, you know,
I still like, um, and,
and it was,
it was something that I wanted to do at the time.
And to him, it was a cathartic moment because he,
he clearly had a lot that,
that he wanted to say on the topic.
And even though some of that stuff is definitely very questionable and I,
without a doubt, understand that, um,
he, he was kind of vexed,
I think by how the situation had transpired.
And I'm not here to necessarily say like,
you're, you're wrong about the points of view, but at the same time,
I also want to say like, it was beneficial for me, um,
in many ways. Uh,
and from my point of view at the time,
it seemed beneficial to me.
And I understand that looking at this current scenario,
I'm sat in a call, um,
with you, um,
and I'm defending Quentin on this point of view.
I completely understand the,
given the fact that he doesn't,
he doesn't seem,
doesn't seem to want to talk to you.
Definitely a point of criticism towards him,
considering he has commented on your videos and that,
and what I said to Muller before,
before he did comment on your videos,
I said, Quentin has kind of moved on.
And that kind of got contradicted by the fact that he,
he engaged himself again.
Yes.
And, you know, and, and I,
I just, I,
I don't know.
You're right, man. You're right.
Look, to wind it back down,
he, what we're saying is everything from your end probably looked shipshape,
but, um, there's a,
there was a lot of stuff going on that he wasn't very candid about.
I understand that.
I understand that.
Um,
and
he's just, um,
I, it just,
that whole thing just was just a spiral.
Um,
and
I think,
I think it was,
I think the mo,
the really like thing that,
the,
the, um,
that kind of pushed it past the point that no return was when he posted the
video.
And I,
I,
I accept that he pre made, made that tweet.
Um,
but chances are he made that tweet on a whim.
Absolutely.
My only point was that he threw the first set of stones that were again,
because you said like,
it's just a parody that wasn't even meant to be directed to you.
It's like, oh, it was, he has a huge problem.
It was, it was, it was definitely,
it was definitely,
it was definitely directed at you like there's no doubt about it.
Um,
and,
and like for the record I offered many times to talk to him and he said,
the main reason is that I don't understand what objective means,
which do you agree with that?
After all the conversations we've heard about it,
we've had a lot of conversation about what is objective.
I mean, it's one of those, one of those things I, um,
uh,
objective is,
is different to objective value.
And we,
I,
I think,
I think that,
I think that's,
that's well,
see if someone said objective means elephant toes,
I'd be like,
I'll still talk to you.
I just want to see how you got there.
And then we can see what about,
you know,
but he was just like,
Nope,
you don't understand the words.
So bye.
It's like,
Oh,
that's very open of here.
Yeah.
And you know,
you could be like,
well,
why did you,
why do you care more?
It's like,
well,
he's openly criticizing me and I'm like,
okay,
let's have a chat.
And he's like,
Nope,
you don't understand words.
Yeah.
And,
and that's just the beginning before we got to this video,
which is just like,
Quentin gives me no reason to think that he's nothing but reprehensible with
and you don't have to drag me into it.
That's fine.
You don't have to say anything to try and make it better for him.
We're literally just saying like,
Yeah,
you're fine.
I mean,
there is a question that I think people would love to hear your answer to,
which would be,
so considering some of the stuff we brought up and as long as there's at least one thing
that you're like,
okay,
yeah,
that's not very accurate.
Sure.
Sure.
What would you say is your capacity for responsibility as the creator of the video that he is in?
I platformed him.
I definitely platformed him on that behalf and,
and,
and promoted his part.
And without a doubt,
I share some of that responsibility.
I don't,
I kind of,
the problem was that it is,
it is my video and therefore,
you know,
I have to take some of that equally.
Like,
you know,
he said what he said and my position from it was a position of ignorance in a way.
And should I have known better without a doubt?
Sure.
I should have looked into,
into more of the details.
I was kind of like,
not an expert on,
on Star Wars.
And I was like,
and that's why,
that's why I call,
that's why I said,
Quinton,
can you come in and help me with the more Star Wars focused points?
Because that's,
that's,
that's what I,
I felt like I,
I wasn't an expert on and I didn't want to just read a,
you know,
read a few Star Wars Wiki articles and pretend that I actually have an investment in it.
I wanted someone who,
who,
who knew a lot more than I didn't,
you know,
Quinton clearly,
clearly cares a lot about Star Wars franchise,
regardless like of what he said.
And so yeah,
I take,
I stake responsibility from the basis that I platformed him.
I didn't,
I wasn't,
I wasn't,
I wasn't meticulous enough with the points.
And also,
and also the fact that,
you know,
I was,
I clearly should have known better with regards to what was being said.
I kind of just went with it and put my faith in him.
And I did put my faith in him.
No, no, I,
I,
I,
Quinton has done a lot for me as a,
as a friend,
as someone I've worked with.
And I think really the,
the thing it comes down to is that he's also,
he also really likes,
I hate everything as well.
That's another really important point to take in mind.
I think he just kind of got very,
very annoyed over the response to,
to it.
And,
and it just kind of spiraled for him.
And,
and,
you know,
that's that's that.
And whether that leads to like this,
then that's fair enough.
Like that's,
that's what I have to say about it.
Um,
so in relation,
what does it mean to say that you are responsible?
Like,
um,
what does that mean to you?
Well,
I mean,
what does it mean to me?
What,
what would you clarify?
Uh,
if I was again,
cause we're different people and me and you and rags,
we're different people.
If I was in your position,
there's probably a few actions I would consider taking.
Um,
for example,
at the end of the conversation I had with,
I hate everything.
And Wolf,
me and Wolf asked if I had everything would tweet out clarification as in like,
he spoke to us and the last Jedi isn't as good as he thought.
And that his video was a bit of a mess and all this stuff.
And like,
he was just like,
don't really want to do that.
And we were like,
okay,
you know,
that's completely down to the person.
So is there any action you want to take?
For example,
and I'm literally just throwing out ideas.
You can be like,
why in the world did I do that?
But like,
do you feel the,
maybe it's with an apology in any way,
shape or form?
Hmm.
Cause obviously you could argue that it doesn't rag zone apology to I and
everything.
It's like,
well that conversation never took place.
I mean,
it's like,
it's,
it's one,
it's one of those things.
It's like,
I think what,
I mean like,
Quinton talked to up about this and we watched,
cause we watched the video and rag this video and we felt very strongly,
particularly about like the character differences.
And,
and we,
we felt very strongly about what rag said.
And then it became a tit for tat.
And that,
that wasn't the right way to go about it without a doubt.
And,
uh,
as,
as the video goes,
you know,
um,
I,
I,
I,
I regret the quality,
not,
not being better.
I regret not wording my points better.
Um,
and equally like I'm happy to hold my hands up and say,
no,
I could have,
I could have done better.
Um,
I don't really necessarily see the point of,
of,
of kind of tweeting,
tweeting.
Um,
but,
but like,
what would I,
what would I say like taking responsibility is it's like,
it's a difficult one because,
you know,
for me like at the time I felt like what,
what rags rags said about,
I hate everything was like,
was like the thing that drove me to have a response.
And I don't expect rags to apologize for anything he said at all,
because it is interpretive.
And so I don't mean to cut you off,
but I just want to provide some context here.
Like rags and I hate everything.
I've never had their conversation nor has rags had any reason to assume that
he should say, for example,
if someone said rags,
you've clearly done present rags with something that we present,
we could present Quentin with.
I think rags would say,
yeah, my bad.
Sorry for that point.
I didn't mean to misrepresent you.
And so I'd happily like apologize for like things that the,
that I've, I've, I've said wrong.
And the problem is it's hard for me to like,
like it's hard for me to apologize on someone else's behalf.
Like, like, because, because that,
I think that I don't think that really achieves much.
I think I can say sorry for what I've done with regards to it.
I'm sure that that would mean a lot there.
And, and obviously like any,
anything that I wasn't clear enough,
anything that I failed to vet clearly on other people's parts in the
videos that has led to misinterpretations that could have been better.
I am sorry.
And, and I,
I wanted to avoid that as much as I could with my video.
And it's clear that I could have done it better on many fronts.
And,
and I worked to improve myself on my content since then.
And,
and obviously,
obviously there are like parts,
like there are points that I'm happy with and there are parts that you,
I don't watch your stream yet.
There are parts, probably points that you probably watched it and thought,
you know, that's a fair point.
And well, I mean,
we, we would maybe respond to a line of dialogue and then play.
And we realized it was contextually different.
We'd say, Oh, whoops, my bad.
Like we didn't realize that's what they were saying.
Yeah. And, and, and that's fair enough.
And the main problem that I was,
it wasn't scripted though.
That's why that would happen.
The main,
the main problem that I ever took with Rags's video was, was,
was the tone that I,
I felt had led to a lot of excessive,
negative reception to,
I hate everything that could have been avoided.
And that's the problem that I'll always probably have with it.
Because the,
the dynamic you could say unfortunately is that it's,
it's sort of you and Rags, me and Quentin,
because Quentin has more things to say about my video than Rags's video.
Yeah.
Because of the nature of how Star Wars works.
So this is, I was going to say like,
this is more for Rags to respond to than me right now,
what you're saying.
Yeah. And that's fine.
Rags, you can do Rags an interject when he wishes.
And, and for me, it was like,
as someone who knew I ate everything and,
and someone who, who, who knew what,
what like, for me,
it's the worst like benefit of,
of the doubt in a way.
I don't think I hate everything,
gave you enough to make such character inferences and,
and, and certain phrases.
And I get it's part of the persona now.
I do understand that.
And I should have taken that more into account.
No, I don't,
I don't really have a persona in any way that isn't just aesthetic.
That's fair enough.
Then then in that,
then in that instance, like I, I just, I just felt,
like, if you were asked to be right now,
what I thought about, I hate everything.
I mean, I wouldn't,
I wouldn't think like negatively of him for the video is like,
as I've told Mahler in the past,
the biggest thing that I have a problem with,
I hate everything is how he handled your conversation with Wolf and
Mahler and then how he flipped on it when he was speaking in public.
I mean, yeah, to be honest,
I just, I believe he just kind of, I think the thing was, I said,
like, sorry, he cucked, cucked.
I, he, I think the issue is,
and this was what I, what I said earlier,
the fact that it was done at a stupidly late time.
And I hate everything got himself into a position where he was just like,
kind of going with it, just, just because he wanted to get to bed.
I understand. It's just that he did literally say at one point to me,
that he's never heard such strong arguments about the film before me.
We were like, oh, wow. Thanks.
And, and honestly,
if, if you want my point of view,
I think he regrets more saying, saying that in the first place,
because I think he kind of understood that that wasn't exactly how he felt,
not because he was necessarily wrong,
but because he, he was just kind of going off some basic,
like going with it to kind of appease you.
And, and in, in the given context,
that that's what I would say is his biggest regret.
And obviously it's important for people to say their feelings.
And obviously it's important to have that discussion and to actually
have a clear conclusion.
I would love for rags and I had everything to be able to discuss that,
but I don't think that's going to happen either.
I'm fine. But I think that people might be overplaying how exactly I feel
about how I hate everything, especially from the video.
Like the video was just like a thing that I,
I did and I made it and I put it out and I didn't really give much thought
to, I hate everything after that. Like, especially even going into it.
Well, you didn't intend to respond to this video at first, right?
You were sort of just like, your video was,
there was nothing really wrong with it.
There's no reason to, but then we sort of looked into it and we were like,
this, this is worth responding to.
Yeah. And that's, that's fair enough.
I don't, I don't blame you for responding to it.
Really.
I think the problem was that it was the,
the video was presented in a way that the people like as a set,
I completely understand there are people who watched my video and
made, and I probably gave too much credence to unfair character
inferences about you regs equally.
Like I'll hold up my hands and say that.
On the other hand, like that was kind of the reason why I made the video
in the first place,
because what I felt was that you were giving people far too much
ammunition to make unfair character inferences about,
I hate everything.
Inferences like what?
Once again, I, I don't have the,
I don't have the, I mean, we can free watch the video.
But it wouldn't just be stuff like rag says,
oh, he's, he's clearly, uh,
biasly defending it source or trying to make the criticism look more crazy
than it is.
I mean, yeah, I, I kind of, I kind of felt that given, given like, um,
given how like mild, like I felt I hate everything's video was, um,
I felt the, the, it was reaction was disproportionate.
I think in the scenario in the scenario that, uh, we had,
I hate everything watching rags is video live.
And then he picked out a couple of time stamps.
He sent them to well rags and then rags was like, oh,
and then they had a conversation and then rags could,
would then have the capacity to be able to, I don't know,
account for responsibility or apologize or whatever.
But obviously none of that's happened for rags.
We can't do anything about it.
As far as he knows, it's been relatively fair.
I mean, I, I personally disagree, but once again, I'm not,
I hate everything.
I can't, I can't like speak on behalf of him.
Like, I mean, this is the thing.
Like having me here is made to speak about my video because it's my video.
That's why I'm trying to veer off it because there's not much we can do.
Like there's not much we can do about it, but, but, but if you want to,
if you want to know, like, like the, I,
I personally feel the way you handled the, the, uh,
I hate everything video.
That was the reason why I made the video,
not necessarily because of the like outward message.
Um, it was just because I felt like it was,
it was leading far too many people,
given far too many people to make harsh character inferences.
And I mean, I spoke to, I hate everything about it.
Um, when you made the response and it was, and I think he,
I think he said, um, you know, he's,
he's never, never received such a,
a significant amount of hate from it. And once again,
hate is not necessarily on anyone,
but equally like, like people who've gone and said, like,
don't said to someone like, are you're, you're, you're a cunt and watch
because they watch one of my videos.
Like I don't necessarily have responsibility for them.
Just like people watching your videos and going over to Quentin and it's
like, they don't have like,
I wouldn't hold you. I wouldn't hold you to account for that.
Well, the only addendum I would have for that is like, yes.
Like say, for example, I have no reference to Quentin.
Then people go to couldn't say you're an asshole.
I'd be like, what are you doing? However, if Quentin says stuff like,
Oh yeah, no, no, no, no. Of course.
We're talking about, we're talking about right back at the start here.
Well, yeah, but I don't think, because I saw rags his video.
I don't remember given the impression that rag rags would have said things
that would have made people go, I'm going after,
I hate everything now as opposed to that's, that's how I, that's how I,
that's how I watched it. And that's the thing. It's all about,
it's all about interpretation. Like I felt at the time it was,
it was unreasonably harsh and,
and I hate everything still feels that way.
And once again, if you can get him into conversation,
then I feel like he wants to kind of move forward.
And equally, I feel like we want to move forward from this.
Absolutely.
I had in the new video came out.
Well, yeah, that's one of the things it's like, it's like,
it's all about getting the final word in.
I think this, this works way better as a follow-up word than another
response to the thing.
This is, this is, this is better than, than, than anything like,
I think like it's going to be set because equally when,
when someone responds, they, they, they have the final word and then people
go there. And then when you respond, you have to find where people go here.
That's why I wanted to get into this conversation and just discuss the
differences. And once again, that's, that was the reason.
And I,
Yeah. So just to clarify though, right? So let's say on the scale,
you felt the rags did X out of 10 in terms of a bad move against,
I hate everything.
Like I'm assuming you'd agree what Quentin did back is like more than
double as bad.
Yeah. I mean, once again, I think, I think the problem,
I think the problem is, as like said with reading,
with reading, rereading Quentin's part was that, um, was that, uh,
he, he, he's kind of, he's kind of, um,
misrepresented points in a way. Um,
It's strange that he would give you something that was his script and then he
would deviate it from it in such a substantial way.
Yeah. Once again, I, uh, I, I, if you,
if you want to read the script after the stream, then you're more.
I believe you.
To be honest, like we're happy to sort this out with just you.
Like we got nothing to do with like Quentin has made it clear that you
only, he doesn't want to sell bad blood between us.
So we'll just let him fester, let him do what he wants.
Like we don't need to clarify what Quentin's intentions even are.
We've just seen the effect and the, let's just say clear,
miss the stat digs that could be interpreted as something far more
malicious. But again, like I would just rather focus on you because you're
willing to actually speak to me. Um,
which again, much respect for, and, uh, I suppose to sort of just,
just to push us a little bit further forward. Um, are you, are you happy
with, with, uh, what we've discussed, both rags anti-hero about this,
sort of trying to get it sorted?
Oh, I'm fine. I mean, yeah, it's fine.
I'm, I'm so depressed.
Are you, are you okay?
Yeah, I'm just, I'm just, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's like, here,
here's one thing though, that I will say I, I won't, and this was part of
the, part of the problem I have with I hate everything's video is there are
some things that bug me that I hate to see, especially nowadays.
And one thing that will, uh, that will get a reaction out of me are people
who make certain statements while trying to assume a position of weakness
or victimization. Uh, people who will say, who people who go boo,
who, what was me also, you know, about other people.
And that's, that's not something that I'll let slide.
No. Oh, sorry. I'm just, uh, once again, I'm not, I'm not, I'm just,
I'm just, it is time. It's, it's like, I'm not, I'm not like, I'm,
I'm just tired.
All right.
I mean, this is all right. Like I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not asking for sympathy and to be honest,
I don't expect to get it.
I don't expect to get it.
I mean, this is all right. Like I'm not, I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not asking for sympathy and to be honest, I don't expect to get any.
No, no, not you. Not that wasn't about you.
Oh, sorry. I'm just, I mean, they're, that's the thing.
It's like, I completely understand that point of view.
And what can, what can you say? It's like, I do agree.
Like you can't overuse it. I think there, I think it's just a case,
like I would love to hear the context behind that sort of stuff.
And, um, and I would probably judge it on an individual basis.
Yeah. I mean, you know, I, I really have nothing else to say on this because
you've pretty much said everything I would, I would hope for you to have said,
um, that there were recognizable flaws and that you'd like to sort of sort
them out in future. And we all make mistakes.
I already know there, there are going to be time.
Like I'm going to get more responses as time goes on.
And there's going to be someone who points out a huge,
like hypocrisy set of statements I've made.
And the best thing you can do is, is how you respond to it. Right?
Like, and I think you've done really, really real,
you've done very respectively.
And I can always respect that you want to defend your friends as well.
I'm sure you could have had hours of really great like connection and the,
his experience to us is far different to yours. So yeah.
I think one of the takeaways would be that from your video,
there is a huge outpouring of hatred for me.
Yeah. I'm used to,
I'm fine with it is like that that's part of the game that we play here.
Well, it was a weird one, but it is what it is.
Where there was one that was like,
I want to punch rags that was at like 20 votes, which is like weird.
That's fine. That's fine. And again, like,
I wouldn't say that's fine.
I mean, no, no, no, sorry. I'm just, I'm not,
I'm not using the fine as an affirmative. I'm using it as like,
I'm accepting your point of view. Okay. Um, it's like,
I made the video.
My video was kind of done with, with the right intentions. Um,
and unfortunately the road to hell is paid with good intentions.
And there were clearly mistakes where I could have alleviated some of the
hatred equally. Um, that was kind of the reason why I felt, uh,
I wanted to make the video in the first place because, um,
I'd seen some quite interesting comments made against,
I hate everything on the basis of his video and it kind of,
and given the tone of the video of rags, this is video, I, I, I,
I kind of understood, I kind of saw how, how it could have,
how one could have led to the other.
And equally I should have probably maybe focused more on, on, on that.
And, and I understand the, the, the, once again,
there were things that said in my video that, that kind of,
that kind of made it just as, just as bad, um, and even worse.
I'll happily, happily hold, hold, hold my hands up on that.
But on the other hand, like I, I still,
I still do take significant issue with the delivery of the video,
but that's, that's like not saying that that can necessarily be resolved me.
So this is just one more, one more thing I'll get out then,
which is that, uh, you,
you know my content well enough to know that the biggest thing that people
will use against me is going to be, you know,
maulers an elitist who thinks that, uh,
the whole objective thing is just a smokescreen uses it to argue that
his opinions are definitive while everyone else's aren't valid.
Like that's the typical response I'll get from many people,
which is fine because like, how could I not?
That's a very, it's a very good start to try and wedge a criticism into my
work because it's like, oh yeah, he does say objective.
That's probably true. Um, so someone like Quinton,
I would expect to make that video and I would just be like, yeah, well,
I can just discredit that.
But like the unfortunate thing is people were making those comments with very
high up votes and I don't even blame them because Quinton says as much in
your video and it's just like, damn it, that comes from TRO who I actually
really like.
Like that's my unfortunate position because it's just like that video will
serve to, uh, be a lightning rod for people who hate my work.
They'll go there and then they'll be like, yeah,
mauler is a piece of shit who thinks blah, blah, blah, blah.
And again, I'm not saying therefore you need to do XYZ.
All I would say is like maybe throw a word in somewhere in some video,
some even a Q and a maybe it would be,
it would be cool like just so that there's something referenceable.
Obviously this, this video could work as a referenceable thing.
It would just be, it would be awesome.
If you said that, um, I don't necessarily do that in my analysis.
I, I mean, I had a Q and a kind of didn't quite touch on that.
Um, I was going to make us a followup video where I cover some more and more
controversial videos, that one being one of them.
And I'll probably say a bit more.
I heard at one point you were considering taking your video down.
Yeah.
No, what happened was I just, I was in a really bad mood that morning.
Um, and someone, you know, someone messaged me about,
about some stuff and I was just like, you know, fuck that.
Um, and then I can consider it.
And then, and then I was like, no, I won't.
Um, it was, it was quite, it was, it was more,
it was one of those things that kind of done, it was reactionary.
Um, and yes, I was,
I was actually going to do a followup where I clarified the points I made.
Um, because it was clear that there were things that were said that,
that didn't come across the way I wanted them to.
Um, and I, I had been planning that for,
I had planned that probably even to do before your stream came out, but, um,
but it's,
there were just a few too many other topics that I wanted to cover first.
Um, so yeah, that'll probably be when it's covered.
I'm not, there's nothing that I can really like put into the space of a tweet
that would summarize my thoughts on that video, on my own video.
Um, but without a doubt,
there were things that I could do better and I'll probably address them in the
future.
Yeah, literally all,
I wouldn't even be asking this if not the fact that I'm just,
I like you and I'm friends with you.
And so you should be like,
it'd be so good if it would stop being used typically without any reason,
stronger reason. Cause this is the thing, you don't say it.
It's not you saying it.
It's just the guy in your video who says it.
So people use your video to do it. And so, uh,
it would just be awesome if there was some kind of just by the way,
this is of course, of course.
And I'll,
I'll clarify that and I'll definitely, um,
I'll definitely make sure that it's addressed without a doubt.
And,
and I,
I have been kind of waiting on it.
I thought I'd get the stream out the way first before we,
we do that. Um,
just so I can get some clarity on feelings from people and
yeah, I don't know what else to say. Um, well, I mean, you know,
I'll, I'll say what I've got for closing.
Then obviously Rags could as well if he wants to,
but I just have a lot of respect for you to come on cause it's,
it's not easy, especially with two, not only a two against one,
but you're also at a disadvantage because you haven't seen all of your
video recently nor have you seen responses recently.
Yeah.
And you're having to defend potentially two other people,
one who really is bloody hard to defend.
Like you've got not much to work with. So again, thank you for coming on.
And, um, of course,
I'm pretty sure me and you will be friends for a long time with ease just
because of the way you, uh, you comport yourself.
If that's the correct word, I'd have to Google it.
Yes. And if there's any impression otherwise, um,
I don't really know anything about you.
I'm pretty neutral towards you.
I don't like hate you or dislike you or anything.
Okay.
Excellent.
Um, I mean, that's, that's, that's great.
I'll take that as always.
And so from there,
would you guys like to check out a different video to sort of, uh,
I'd say bring this down a bit instead of being more so about a potential
drama? You know what I mean?
Well, sure.
Sure. Sure.
Check out this Vox nonsense.
And I just accidentally made it.
So now I can't see any of the super chats.
Yay.
Is there a way to get that back up?
Do you guys know if there is a way I accidentally refresh the page?
So well on your, on your stream page, yeah.
Unlike your stream info page at the bottom,
there should be a list of the super chat.
Yeah, that's where they were.
And then I refresh and notice blanks.
And then it should be, um,
it'll be on your, it'll be on like a community tab or a channel tab,
but it'll have, um, it does keep all your super chats there.
Let me actually go and click and see if I can find it.
If you go to my channel,
then go to, no, don't go.
Oh, community super chat.
I think I can see it.
Yeah.
Something like that. There should, there should be an option there.
Excellent. I can see what I assume is them.
Oh wait, October 17th. That's not what I'm looking for.
26th. Does it go up?
Yes, it does. Excellent. Okay. Um, well, uh,
if either of you want to go to the toilet or do anything,
I'm going to try and get through these quickly because people have obviously
been saying things and we've been an hour and a half in,
so I'm going to try and.
I'm going to use the loo.
Very well. Um, you see some of these,
I read them and I'm just like, what was the context?
It says slap my hand friends. It's like very well on board.
Um, another recommendation for rags and wolf tell them I said,
hi is Gundam thunderbolt. Both films are on Gundam info.
There's been a lot of Gundam recommendations.
I hope that people go with them,
but obviously when I'll say it like,
honestly now when people recommend things as a, as a creator,
you'll probably best put it in a list,
but you'll have so many recommendations that is tough to get through.
Um, I'm watching you Efap. Beautiful. Good to see you all being friends.
That, that is the, the hope and goal.
And I genuinely like think if time was rewound all the way to the point
where I had everything that was about to make his video,
I think everything would have gone differently with how everybody's done
everything now. Um, which is arguably very interesting.
Uh, metal gear solid is a better movie than last Jedi.
It's fair enough respect for TRO for being chill and debating.
I agree wholeheartedly. Spider-Man 3 is a better movie than last Jedi.
Am I going to get a lot of those? I'm going to miss the stream,
but you bet I'll watch the archive. Hope it's a good conversation.
TRO is a pretty cool dude. Excellent.
Uh, good job TRO. Glad you're having a calm and eventful debate with rags.
More or much better than some guy I know.
Oh yeah. Major Lee who, uh, doesn't like me as well.
I have a lot of enemies. I think I've told you about this.
Um, Ray Starkiller, my own theory for episode nine.
So fair one. Pulp Fiction is better than Stark.
GTA San Andreas is better than last Jedi.
Uh, here be $5. Don't use it all one place, guys. Yes.
Hi TRO. What does narrative tripling mean?
Oh, narrative tripling. Like, uh, tripling I used it if I recall
in the context of, like, a very good example is the good, the bad, and the ugly.
I think that's what it means. I'm a bit off the game now.
I've kind of switched off slightly, but, um, but that's, that's what
I probably used it in the context. Tripling.
It's quite a common thing because it's like gives it more power in the moment.
It's like, because we couldn't find anything for narrative tripling.
Oh, well, that's probably cause I put narrative for it,
which was a stupid thing to say, but tripling.
That's, I think you probably like, uh, it's tripling or power of three.
Um, that's, that's like rule of three or something like that as well.
Like I, I, I know what you mean, like threes often.
Yeah. It's like gives, gives it more.
It's not too much. It's not too little. Just kind of the right amount for your brain to.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. It's, it's, it's, it's a popular rhetorical device.
And then the follow-up was, uh, Mullen rags.
I'm going to fanboy stoked for more content from you rags.
Can't wait for that epic TFA review.
Do you want to, do you want to say any comment about upcoming content rags?
Okay. Well, we'll give you a second.
Uh, TRO, it would be an honor if you would join us.
Do you, do you know that reference?
Uh,
And this folks is why he had to bring someone in for Star Wars.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm sorry guys. I'm not, I'm not an expert.
Uh, Nick was asking, what are you studying?
I'm studying politics, philosophy, and international law with a minor in psychology.
You interested in becoming Superman is that the overall goal?
Oh God, I'm interested.
Uh, not doing nothing with my life. I guess I want to do something.
Um, and not, not just be like, uh, haven't have a normal life.
I'm a, I'm a, I want to want to leave an impact in a way.
And, uh, that requires taking some risks and learning some from some mistakes.
Beautiful. Wonderful. Um, favorite tracks from Star Wars also praise for John Williams.
Um, well, TRO can't answer that question because I don't know if you'd know the, well, do you, do you want to answer that question?
Well, which one?
Favorite track from Star Wars?
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I do not know their specific names. Oh dear.
I mean, the title track is pretty iconic. I mean, you can't, absolutely.
I was going to say like, there's so many tracks I love, but duel of the fates would probably be the, the one I pick. It's just so epic.
Um, uh, do you have a playlist named two more and wolf with love from a fan, which is full of TLJ videos explaining world building.
And I was hoping you could rip them apart on a stream as well.
We've got more than 30 videos in our backlog and it keeps growing because we only cover one per stream. We get like five per week.
So I think eventually we're not going to have be able to respond. We just, what we try and do is sort of, um, bring on guests and then try and tackle a video that sort of matches them at least a little bit or something that's recently relevant.
I suppose would be interesting too. So, uh, we will do our best to possibly approach some of the ones in that playlist.
Uh, keep up the great work. Thank you very much. I love your content. Looking forward to episode nine rant. It is coming.
Um, more. I should do a five hour crucifixion logical search. Well, I mean, there's no need. We've, uh, we've pretty much talked through it now. It's just all good.
But it takes a few seconds for a septic pump to spray shit everywhere, but it takes days to clean it up. You're doing the best to clean it up now.
I, um, I think I make an analogy for that in the new, in the new thing, you know, the whole idea that it's like, you shouldn't.
What was your take on that to Euro that you shouldn't take longer than the content to talk about the content?
That's the skin for me. I already know what you think.
I think, I think we've learned from experience.
Just, uh, yeah, it's, it's, it's a bit of a, that's like, if there's a lot to say, you just got to say it. And honestly, sometimes it pays to say more because, because then, you know, it can't be.
Misinterpreted. Yeah. And that's why I try that. And I think that's what, what we, what we both try and do now, like even more so now.
I'm not sure if you have to sometimes, sorry, you go. I'm not sure if Rags is actually there, but literally the thing we said, we came from away from watching the, this video of the two streams was the, in future, we're both going to try and be more explicit with our language.
Definitely. I learned a lot too. I have to like, even now, like, I'll be like, Oh, what if someone thinks I was saying that? And although I, I've kind of like created a little logical arc for it, where there's like, there will, they're always going to be people who take what you say out of context.
They're always going to be people who do that. And you cannot account for them. And they will, they will, they will do it regardless. There's still like a, there's still like a certain way to deliver the information that's going to get like the reasonable people on board and listening.
And that's kind of what I, I'm trying to do that. I'm just trying to get the, the main echelon of, of people who, who aren't going to listen. Cause I do believe the majority of people are reasonable.
And it's a good thing to believe. It's a positive thing to believe.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, it's, it's, it's, I, it's what I try and reflect in my content. And so I, I kind of want to just encapsulate that set of people and, and, um, I don't know, tired day.
It's just one of those days. It's one of those days we'll work through it. Um, and, and if there are people, people will always going to talk. People are always going to look for reasons to misinterpret you, uh, misuse your content as well.
Um, you, that, that is unavoidable. What you have to do is make it as clear as day, make it as clear as possible that it's not going to be taken out of context.
And, you know, just do everything. All the safeguard.
I'd say that's a fair lesson for everybody who's making content is it's, it's just going to help you in the long run. It really well. Um, better to be too thorough than not throw enough.
I mean, me and Rags definitely think that way, but I know that a lot of people will be like, anything over 10 minutes is too long. And they're wrong. We hate them. They're the worst. Anyway, uh, show them the love of the Jareds.
The way of the Jareds. Love you guys. Of course, James, and thank you for the hundred dollar redos. Uh, I actually managed to convince one of my Mormon friends that do all the fates was the more, was Mormon chanting. That's impressive.
Um, and then the, so the last one is why did Thierry fast forward through Rags is Mark Hamill clips. Um, there was a couple of comments I saw that said that it wasn't fast forwarded for them on the original video.
But when we played it on here, uh, Rags had clips from Mark Hamill to, you know, prove a point, whatever. And instead of skipping them or just acknowledging that they existed and moving on from you, they were played.
But in like times three speeds, you couldn't hear what he was saying. And it was a good, like, it was just bizarre. Like, I don't understand what the, I mean, generally the fast forwarding was done because like it was the point was that Mark Hamill has, has, is like, you know,
you're showing an array of clips to make it very clear what Mark Hamill's saying. And all the clips, even though they do, they do say like in different ways, they're sending home the same message.
And so it was to try and preserve time, but admittedly, uh, still didn't quite match to do that.
I would describe it as inelegant because I was so confused at what the point of it was.
That's fair.
It would have helped me if those clips had been understandable.
Mm hmm. That's fair enough.
Um, but yeah, I, um, if you guys want to, I mean, that's pretty convenient, by the way, that this video has been played from zero to near the end. And that's makes for our whole conversation.
Yeah, we've, we've, we've, we've discussed this. It would have, it would have been better if I did like make it more, um, efficient. Definitely. There were ways to do it. It was just the way I was thinking about it at the time.
And so, is there anything else either of you'd like to say before we sort of move on?
Nah, I think that's unless, um, if something's brought up later, sure. But for now I'm, I'm fine. I'm satisfied for the moment.
I wait for the bulletins as events warrant.
The what?
What?
The bulletins of events warrant. That's what I heard.
No.
I'm good.
Okay. Yeah, sure. Um, Tiro.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fine. That's fine.
So the context for this is Vox. I don't even know what the hell they were thinking. Everybody like assumes that they were told, obviously, yeah, if you couldn't guys can pop your volume on. Everybody assumes that they were told by someone to release a Marvel related video.
And like, they were like, what should we go with? It's like, uh, I don't know. Overrated.
I think they were asked what's the most overrated thing?
Yeah, like it's really overrated and popular and everybody was like the Marvel. Oh, yeah, yeah.
That's what the reason they gave. I'm saying like on a meta level, like their writing staff was like, all right, yes, we got to do like they half this. They half asked this video so hard that it's like, it's like, they didn't, they didn't agree, but they're like, well, this is what people want a video on.
And this thing, I don't have any like history of Vox. Like what is Vox anyway?
Do you know what the channel is? Right?
Some bullshit.
Some bullshit.
It's very weird because they've got like this hot take YouTube channel, but they're also based on a media company, which covers the news, I think, and opinion pieces. I could be wrong, but that's, I see them a lot on Twitter.
And super lefty, regressive, very racist sort of, it's really, I mean, they're really, you know, they do like Buzzfeed sort of things.
Kind of. I think they're a step down from Buzzfeed honestly.
Is it, I mean, yeah, I think, I think Vox is that, yeah, I think they're, they're on the, on the left politically.
And for some reason, their YouTube channel is more like one of those like hot takes.
Yeah, they're a media hot take channel.
And like, I'm, I'm a little MCU fanboy, but you guys got familiarity with the MCU, right?
Yeah, for the most part, I'm fairly, I'm fairly knowledgeable.
So should we start with the title? Do you think the universe feels empty?
I don't even know where one would begin to make that connection. It feels, oh, it's, it's, it's hyper dense, I would say.
Especially the payoff ones, like the Avengers films.
Oh, yeah.
I really enjoy a lot of the Marvel Cinematic films.
I'd say probably my favorite is The Winter Soldier, personally.
And I feel that, I feel that what I love about it is that just the characters really make, make it.
Because in many ways, like The Winter Soldier is, is as traditional as they come.
And it's yet completely like expanded by just the depth of each character and how they interact.
And that's what I love about it.
And that's what I love about a lot of the Marvel films that they're actually like, so I think like they're just taking a thing that people feel like completely the opposite and then just going against it.
Yeah, that is almost, you know, hot takes. They can be, it's like you could do a thing.
It's the idea of like doing it before it becomes accepted almost.
And so the idea is like, is this a hot take that the Marvel Cinematic film feels empty?
Because a lot of people did feel that Marvel was a little bit arbitrary with its connections at first, but like they've been working.
I would argue since it's like, I think Civil War or a bit before that is when they start to really crank up because Iron Man 3 is mysteriously without any connections to anything really.
It's like the president gets kidnapped and the world is a threat sort of thing, but like no Avengers turn up and nobody seems to care.
And it's just like, oh, we're doing that again with the universe sort of doesn't give a shit.
But then if you look at stuff like Civil War or Winter Soldier, I think came up before Iron Man 3, interestingly enough.
There's more interactions with the characters that we know exist in this world, which is what's important, I would say.
And then events having an effect from the place they started to other places in the world.
It's like, oh yeah, because this actually happens in this world.
It's not just arbitrarily that movies are taking place at the same time and that nobody gives a shit about each other.
And again, that's why I'd say the Avengers films the best because you get so many clashes where you're like, oh, it's like watching Doctor Strange at the same time.
I was watching an I bad movie who you know, that comic book style, like happy fan gasm stuff.
So, yeah, Robin, so edgy. Here we go.
I suppose the Marvel Cinematic Universe is overrated.
That's right. Well, I mean, that's a different different to his title, isn't it? Yeah, that's oh, slow down there, buddy.
So what do we think about that statement?
Qualify it. Yeah, I was going to say, because I probably would agree in certain cases, like I think Black Panther is overrated, I think.
Oh, hell yeah. You saw that shit that I posted on Twitter a couple of days ago.
Games, radars like the top, like top 25 best movies of 2018.
I was like, I don't. That's first. That's a lot of movies for a year that's had a lot of shitty movies.
And they're like, number one, Black Panther. And I'm like, fuck off.
But yeah, I'm trying to think of like, there are other ones I consider overrated, but that I also be like, but there are there are certain Marvel films that sometimes I'm like, a little bit underrated because it gets brushed under the whole banner of it's just another superhero movie.
It's like, yeah, well, I think I think it's one of those things that kind of opening with a statement like the Cinematic Universe is overrated.
You have to like, how do you how do you break that down? Because in a way, the universe is an interaction of individual films that all differ in their quality.
And and so what what is there to say about like, it's such a general statement, you really have to go into the details and then explain how the interaction of each of these films would then would then cause it to be overrated.
But I doubt I'll do that, given it's only nine minutes, 39 seconds.
Yeah, let's see. That's already the assumption, right? It's like, oh, are you going to tell us what all of the ratings of the films are compared to their actual assumed quality in some way and then get an average overall or look at audience retention?
It's like, no, no, that's not what's going to happen. The funny thing is your best bet.
So that's what I mean. Like, in terms of structure, we've got this is why the Marvel Universe feels empty and the opening statement is it's overrated.
So it's like, I'm already disjointed and we've got seven seconds in. But there we are.
Right. This is happening.
OK, so why is this not just a steaming pile of clickbait?
You mean, you're the fucking steam steamiest pile of clickbait that exists in Vox.
Do you think they made the videos script and then they went back and said, fuck, we should put that at the beginning just to try and hopefully stymie a bit of the criticism because I have a feeling that the a lot of these channels do.
What these channels do is that they think of a title and they base a script around it.
Yeah, because most people would do it the other way around, right? Yeah, like most normal people.
The title is supposed to represent what's in your fucking video, not the other way around.
So far, there have been 20 of these movies and Uber producer Kevin Feige says there will be at least 20 more in the MCU Marvel Cinematic Universe in the next.
I was going to say, yes, moving on. Like we're waiting for the, you know, I like the fact display parts of videos because you're just like, yes, we can skip over these 10 years.
Seriously, half of these people could disappear and it would still be one hundred and forty eight too many kids.
When we asked Fox's audience for things they think are overrated Marvel and I'm confused.
Is that really like their justification for why they did this? It's like, wouldn't you want to hang on this five upvotes as well.
I mean, I mean, that's fair enough though. The one the one above it has 20. Yeah, like I'm saying, like, why wouldn't you choose the mode?
I don't know. Like, what relevance is this? It's like, I mean, it's not necessarily about which one has the most likes about which one's going to get the most views.
In that case, yes, this was an excellent choice, but they didn't need a comment to tell them to do it, did they? Yeah, I mean, yeah.
I mean, I guess they were just looking for ideas because they could have done Star Wars.
They could have done Star Wars. Star Wars is thanks. Abdullah Al-Kamal in DC's movies came up. Oh, fuck. Oh, shit.
They're cheating. That's a 50 years of five is a four a second. They're cheating. There you go.
OK, so it was the top comment. That's fair enough. Absolutely. It was like it was blast.
I guess there's a lot of hate for the the Marvel Cinematic Universe out there. That's fair enough. I guess.
Which is why it's important that these videos are made to share why.
But I think to a lay person, they don't even like think about it as a universe so much as individual like heroes with their own movies.
Mm hmm. Because that's how that's certainly how like my my mom and my dad and some other people I know think about it.
They don't think about the whole universe. They're like, yeah, Dr. Strange and Iron Man and all that.
It's like they're all well, let's be fair. There are people out there who, if you said the Incredible Hulk is not in the MCU, the movie, they'd be like, OK, yeah, I didn't think it was.
No, it is. And they go, oh, shit. Yeah. Mm hmm. It's hard to keep track sometimes, I suppose.
In the United States alone, they've grossed more than six point five billion dollars.
And yet there's something missing when you look at the history of fictional universes and at the MCU in particular.
It's possible to understand how could be why is it broken?
Oh, so his premise then is we're going to look at the history of cinematic universes to explain why the MCU is broken.
Well, yeah, they they they asserted that week it can be fixed without telling us how it's broken.
It feels empty. It's overrated. And now it's broken. It's like, which one of these we tackled first or are they all the same?
They get a tenth of their videos gone. So that's the part I always find interesting about this.
It's like you count intros and then establishment of facts before the actual, you know, meat of the video.
And it's like, man, you're already running out of time. Like I got to kick it up a long time.
Go back to 1939. No, no, no. I don't know if this is going to be relevant, dude, but OK.
I already have questions if this is relevant or not. All right.
Human Torch was he was a fucking beast. Absolutely. Look at him. He could he could be is like pretty well.
He's in Fuego. All right. Let's see what they've got. The Marvel universe.
It's in Marvel Mystery Comics number seven. These characters aren't that well known today.
But here, Betty tells Namor that the human torch exists establishing continuity and crossover potential.
This was the start of a new era, one in which corporations produced fiction. The idea was simple.
You could use the fame of one property to enhance the audience for another. And Marvel wasn't alone in recognizing the financial opportunity.
I was going to say, is he now going to talk about how other people had this idea, too? Yes, I don't see how this is bad.
I guess it's in case we don't understand what a cinematic universe could be over the history of it.
I don't really know why he's explaining setting the stage, but now like 20 percent of the video is done.
I was going to say, it would make much more sense to do this if you had an hours video, maybe. Yeah, man.
Like I think most of us know that Marvel movies are big and everyone knows about them and they make lots of money.
And we all know that the comics go back a long way. I think the first thing you tackle is how the universe is,
how the films link to each other and how it's you know, it's it's XYZ.
It would be a great place to start rather than this is the history of when properties would cross over.
It's like, oh, dear. Well, you're not wrong as far as I know, by the way, because I don't know the history of comics.
I'll just take his word for it. Take their word for it, I suppose.
In the 1930s and 40s, the Green Hornet.
Look at that picture on the wall. The man on that horse is one of your ancestors.
In the 1940s, the Green Hornet revealed that the series' central character, Britt Reid, was the grand nephew of the Lone Ranger.
OK. OK. All right. I didn't know that popular radio. Yeah. OK. I hope you do something about those crooks.
Just as your pioneer ancestor did. Movie studios were thinking about this, too.
When Abbott and Costello met Frankenstein, he joined the Dracula Frankenstein and Wolfman movie franchise.
Well, I guess now we're sort of getting closer to the MCU and that we're in film franchises.
Yeah. The monster movies did cross over, I suppose. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm assuming you guys would have known about that at least because I because like Van Helsing, they're Frankenstein and Dracula were in Van Helsing.
Yeah. Yeah. I don't care what people say. I like that movie. Wait. Wait. You talk about the Hugh Jackman one. Yeah.
I can't. I have not watched that in so long, but I know that that's considered a bad film. I genuinely I can't remember it.
Well, those people are wrong. It's amazing. It's got a machine gun crossbow and shit. Oh, yeah. I remember that.
He dips it in like holy water, doesn't he? Holy water. Yeah. And then he shoots the vampire ladies with it.
All right. Producing. Yeah. As is with a goofy comedy, it was basically Universal Studios Avengers Infinity War, but with more running into walls.
By the 60s, even DC cops. This is so weird. You know how we we've talked about this before, but we had rags basically like every time.
Oh, and when Wolf is here, of course, we'll we tackle a video and we'll be like, OK, these are the actual things that are wrong with this one, even though the last one we covered had all these different things wrong.
And there's all these different things. It's like I don't know where to begin with this one.
It's like, all right, this is nice background info to have, I suppose, but I wish they they're running out of time.
Yeah, they are. They are. They need to. They kind of need to be like a third of the way done.
Consider the fact that we're willing to watch the whole thing. But like the amount of people who were like, yeah, tell me why the Marvel universe is empty.
People who like hate the MCU, even they're going to be like, what the hell is going on?
Yeah, I mean, I don't mind setting up premises, but what? We're nearly a third of the way. Like you've got to got to hurry.
It just feels like I probably can't see an argument being formed. Like someone can present some premises and like interesting points and I can probably like maybe like see where they're going and then I can wait it out.
But this is just like they give me like a history. It's like, OK. Yeah, they better end this with a big old. So with all that being said, the MCU equals bad.
OK, comics was catching up like when Superman entered his fortress of solitude and finally met Batman.
They enjoyed some cake.
God, don't play music. Everyone will get strikes. Assuming they enjoy some cake.
They did eat cake. Well, I say let them eat cake.
Let them eat cake. That's a great. That sounds like some of the famous person would say.
I think that's. I was joking. Fantastic for. I'm trapped, but they don't suspect my real. Mary Antoinette said that, right? Is it? I think it's attributed to her. Yeah.
Maybe it's. Yeah. So yeah, I have learned that when Batman, which we're getting closer, by the way, superheroes combining, even though we sort of did the human torch earlier, but getting closer to the MCU getting there.
By the time Spider-Man got his comic in 1963, he was spending time with the Fantastic Four and promoting guest appearances from The Hulk.
And this was also when the Marvel Universe's problems started. So the 60s is when things went to shit. Things I'm telling you, man, things went to shit in the 60s.
Yeah, before that, everybody knew their place. Assuming he kicks up into actual arguments now, it was a three minute intro, which I can get over if the rest is solid.
I'm not sure what the point of it was, but hey. Yeah.
Yeah. This snow globe contains a half century of television. It's the basis for the Tommy Westfall universe theory, which some argue might be the biggest fictional universe of all.
The snow globe appeared on the television show Saint Elsewhere. That scene possibly showed that the whole series had taken place inside a snow globe world imagined by a character named Tommy.
Tommy was like an autistic kid or something. The theory is that if a show had a crossover with Saint Elsewhere, that show must have taken place in Tommy's snow globe too.
Okay. And every crossover that show had, no matter how tangential, would be in the snow globe and so on and so on.
So.
But how is the Marvel universe overrated or empty?
Just to clarify, if I've got this right, he's saying that like, you know, when a show has like, say, I don't know, someone references Buffy in Law and Order.
That counts as, because I'm assuming that some of these connections have to be that vague.
As long as they're tied back to Saint Elsewhere, then it's just a dream in the mind of an autistic kid.
And that, I mean, yeah.
I don't know how this actually changes anything. It just adds an extra thing.
It's like a second introduction now, because like, I don't know what this is leading.
We'll see, I guess. Yeah. Very hard on this charge.
And like, this would have been, you know, this is a graphic that someone had to make. So this is, I mean, the editing has been pretty good so far. I have to admit it.
Yeah.
Gee, the Andy Griffith shows over there and we've got Coach and.
You got X-Files is connected to like a, I'm assuming all these, these are is literally just people making a reference.
This chart must have taken fucking ages to make.
Especially to get it right too, because you'd have to research this.
Assuming this is right.
Like, wow. Veronica Mars and X-Files and geez.
Yeah.
Shows in the same universe, in the same snow globe.
It spans from 1952 to today.
It's a dumb theory, but it's meant to.
Oh, thanks.
That said, the time in the universe actually illustrates some of the problems with the marvels.
Okay.
Okay. So he's quite making comparison.
We've got it.
All right.
He's like, he's like making equivalents, basically.
He's going to explain how the snow global will now infer us into a problem with the MCU. I'm following along.
Crossovers require a bunch of artistic compromises.
No one wants Cheers and I love Lucy to be a connected universe.
It's because a bunch of business decisions connected them.
That's not true.
I mean.
Yeah.
I don't think there's necessarily anything wrong with it as long as it's done well.
I mean.
Yeah.
I think a casual nod to something else can be kind of cool.
Like the idea that American dad and family guy could take place in the same universe.
Like I'm on board with that.
They don't have to have like a direct crossover.
I mean, it's just like, but if everything is like late, the way they showed it on that, on that graphic was that it was linked to a load of other shows that was then linked to the one at the end.
And a lot of them must've been tangential, like the X-Files stuff, you know, like just a character saying, man, you're, you're more skeptical than Scully.
It would be like, so basically no relationship at all.
How does that damage anything?
Why is, why is that?
Why would that be a problem if they, there's literally no reference, direct reference at least.
And then there are shows like, you know, Buffy and Angel take place in each other's universes or a benefit.
They have, they have crossovers and episodes that are part ones and part twos that cross the shows, which is genuinely a great thing.
So it's kind of weird that he's just like, yeah, this causes problems.
Like, okay.
I mean, I'm assuming he's going to tell us what the problems are at least.
Sometimes the network forced crossovers on producers.
Other times the producers came up with it.
Gary Marshall said that the reason that work from Ork knew Fonzie from Happy Days and Laverne from Laverne and Shirley was because his son said that Fonzie should dream about an alien.
Well, that's the writing.
Yeah.
What's that got to do with the fact that they crossed over?
Like you could have read that a bit better than saying it was a dream or whatever.
Oh, dear.
Oh, dear, indeed.
The whole point is that work is like he's supposed to because the end of every Mark and Mindy episode ends with Mark going back to like the alien overlords and like making commentary about humans.
I've never seen it.
So I would go strictly off.
I just mean, in concept, the idea that you cross over isn't inherently going to provide you with bad writing.
It's the writer that would do that.
Yeah.
Like, can you really make Fonzie appear in Mork and Mindy reasonably?
I'd be like, yeah.
Yeah, sure.
It's not ridiculous.
It's not telling a good story.
The Tommy Westfall universe is a thought experiment.
Frasier and the X-Files don't mix, even though they do in Tommy Westfall's Globe.
Why can't they mix?
I know the tones are different, but that's the idea of, you know, so I mean, maybe he's going to reverse the formula and say, basically, these things exist in Tommy Westfall's Globe and you wouldn't see them together.
And they probably wouldn't work as a crossover.
And then he'll say, this is the same thing with the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
So why would they cross over?
Like, is he going to say maybe that something like Ant-Man, because it's really uppity, happy and comedy, like, wouldn't mix with Winter Soldier because it's almost like an espionage, darker-toned thriller?
Yeah, that would be my hunch.
I think he's going to reverse it and say, these things don't mix.
So why would you do it with Marvel Cinematic Universe, which is very invalid argument.
How come everyone in chairs is so happy and everyone's laughing and is so lucky and then you go to the X-Files and everything's just sad?
Well, I was about to say, like, that's the nature of a universe.
If you go to a hospital or you go to a children's daycare, the atmosphere will be different in real life.
And how it works.
But again, we've just inferred a point that doesn't exist yet.
So let's see if he does make it.
But even at Marvel, where continuity was planned, it became a hassle to maintain.
Okay.
Marvel editor and writer Lynn Ween said the problem at Marvel was that we suddenly became a business with a bunch of books that Stan don't think ever in his heart expected to last more than a couple of years.
That doesn't mean it's without a solution.
I don't know what that point assists.
Yeah.
Considering that the movies can only tell, let's be fair, like a few issues of a comic could like one one comic could make one film.
Oh, and they don't even necessarily go with the comics.
They always break away from the comics.
It's like, I don't know what that I'm not sure.
Maybe the way to solve this is with standalone sequels.
We didn't bring that up.
I don't want to bring it back, but I do not find this statement funny.
The idea that you can only really look at The Last Jedi as a sequel if you interpret it as a sequel.
What?
We is okay.
We can push on 1965 Lee replaced most of the Avengers just because the continuity for the original group had become too confusing to deal with this continuity.
Happened in the movies, too.
I genuinely think we're about to hit that in the MCU.
There's so many heroes that have so many abilities and resources that it's going to get very complicated to maintain.
But I don't think we've had much of that problem up till now.
Yeah, I think it's a sense of scale is really the thing.
Iron Man kicked off the MCU in 2008.
The universe exposition dump didn't happen until after the credits.
To start, you become part of a bigger universe.
Exposition dump is literally just a teaser.
Yeah, that's not an exposition dump.
It's just Nick going, hey, it's probably one of the most genius things.
It was a really good idea that they did that.
It was an incredible idea.
Yeah, it was it was a very, very innovative thing to do.
And it was completely like that seemed a bit aggressive.
You know, like exposition dump.
This video is a dump.
So there you fucking got a brag.
Yeah.
Nailed him.
And lived a week excuse right in the middle of the movie.
I think our first move should be calling the Avengers.
I spent half my life trying to keep this technology out of the hands of the Stark.
I'm sure as hell not going to hand deliver to one now.
Okay.
These heavy handed additions.
Okay.
Okay.
But that's a reasonable thing to say.
Time to bring out my MCU fanboyness.
Going just from the films because I think that's the point of the MCU.
The opening scene of Ant-Man establishes that Hank Pym doesn't trust anybody at
SHIELD and he wants to protect his patent before they use it for evil.
Basically, the film itself is about somebody else discovering the Pym particle
and using it to sell it to like terrorists and shit.
And he has to stop them or he wants to.
And because Ant-Man or Paul Rudd's character is a little bit slow sometimes.
He's like, hey, because we're in the the veggies of this, why don't we ask them for help?
And Hank Pym's like, have you not paid attention to anything I've told you?
Like we don't want Stark to get the Pym particle because Hank Pym sees Stark as a weapons seller.
This is also brought up in Civil War, by the way, when Ant-Man is like Hank Pym was right.
Never trust a Stark. This is a thing. Hank Pym does not trust Tony Stark or his father.
That's not arbitrary at all. That's like the reason the Avengers are not in Ant-Man.
Because Hank Pym doesn't want to get anywhere near them.
And this is brought up again in Ant-Man 2, by the way.
See, I've already got a problem now because this is the actual substance of his actual video.
And it's just inaccurate.
Like this is not reasons against it being a full universe or reasons for it being empty.
This is reasons for it being strong.
Yeah. And if anything, you know, a guy like me who has a moderate understanding of the MCU was like, yeah, that seems reasonable.
That makes sense to me.
And you could be like, no, that's just convenient so that you don't have to have Iron Man in the film.
I'd be like, I mean, it would be a problem if Iron Man was in the film working with Hank Pym.
That would be a problem.
Yeah. Yeah.
Like I said, it's a problem for Iron Man 3.
Like I did say, I don't know why you wouldn't just reference that. Iron Man 3 pretends like there are no other heroes in the universe.
I guess I have an issue because the president gets kidnapped, like I said, which would attract the attention of people like, I don't know, Captain America, for example, Captain America.
You probably care if the president was kidnapped.
Hashtag not my president.
Are about getting crossover hype, not about telling a good story, but there's a bigger problem.
That's literally part of the story.
There's a bigger problem.
It's like it's for the story, not against it, dude.
The continuity in the MCU.
And there is a way to do it better.
All right.
Let's hear it out.
You're the Avengers.
The rest of this scene is a standard movie fight.
Their universe is only as deep as some merchandise.
What?
What?
Spider-Man Homecoming is the most connected of the singular films.
It has so many references to the.
The what's his name?
Vulture.
The whole reason he exists as a bad guy is because of the Avengers, like not just them, but the actual film, the Avengers.
It was it was I mean, first, it was actually like I really enjoyed the fun and about what you guys thought.
But I really enjoyed Homecoming.
Iron Man is in that movie, as we just said.
It's totally well done.
It's really like it is a standalone film in a way.
But the how it's intertwined with the rest of the universe is very well done.
I thought it was.
Well, I mean, let's be honest, he's he's being a bit of a dick.
This is one scene in the film and he's done it for a joke.
He's like, this is how skin deep the connections are.
It's just merch.
It's like, no, nothing else.
He's got much of Iron Man right there.
Iron Man is in the film.
I mean, yeah, I kind of think that he just has to step back and I just see it as a as a as a cheeky wink.
Like, you know, if it sells so much on the side, like, yeah, I mean, obviously, I'd expect the actual films with the people that they appear in to sell more much.
Yeah, they're action figures in their own universe.
They establish that in one of the TV shows you can buy like all the shit we have for football team.
Exactly.
The Avengers, which is why the universe is genuinely what I would say is like, I'm not going to say it's amazing, but I think it's strong compared to what it could be.
Yeah, I mean, so much, you know, that's what that's what they do.
So what does this have to do with Mork and Mindy or the history of comic books?
You know, like, this is clearly a writing critique.
Yeah, it's that was filler.
It's like, I mean, look how smart we are with our graphics and our old comic.
It was it was an attempt for them to like sound knowledgeable, to try and give the rather.
Yeah, exactly.
To give their opinions like foundations where they're actually on.
Will Mork and Mindy appear in the Avengers?
That's my question.
I hope so.
I hope Mork is it shouldn't have been Captain Marvel.
They should have been like, call Mork and a few Easter eggs.
Parker's classroom has a picture of Bruce Banner in the corner, but it's not a transformed universe.
Why would you?
Why are you treating it like this is that in the merchandise of the only connections?
It's way more than that.
And I'm sorry, but that's an awesome detail that he makes it up there with like actual real life scientists that got Bruce Banner.
That's cool.
But obviously, I mean, it's it's more subtle, but it's it's something.
You'd be like, well, that's if this was the only reference, you'd be like, well, that's a pretty skin deep reference.
It's like, but it's not.
Spider-Man Homecoming has some of the most references to it being a universe.
Remember the remember the tapes from Captain America about like better behaving in school?
That's a great piece of will building because I could totally see him doing that.
Yeah, they always play tapes in schools, or at least they did for my generation where it's like, yeah, just watch this.
You'll be a better person.
Including the imaginary brand of Red Apple cigarettes in multiple movies.
It's cool.
It's not a coherent, intertwined world.
The MCU.
What are you required to be considering in an intertwined world?
If not, Iron Man actually turning up in Homecoming.
Yeah, but Red Apple.
OK, current plan.
Is like our own, except for the crossovers.
You can test it with the characters.
Bad Aquaman to that poster.
If you didn't know DC on him, would anyone notice?
What?
Would anyone notice?
Yeah, he'd be in the film.
People would see him.
I mean, they have like dialogue.
What an odd point.
I'm not even sure what he's trying to say with that.
I think he's saying that because.
I got nothing.
I'm trying to think how I think he's saying that because.
He said no one would notice, which is partly like what he's trying to say is no one would notice that he's from the DC universe.
They wouldn't be able to distinguish between them between people from their own universe and people from other universes, which I think is a redundant point.
But that is what I think he's trying to say.
But like that is not a plus the fact that we have wizards plus scientists plus radioactive people plus people bitten by spiders plus agents that have worked for Russia.
You know, like what I'm trying to argue here is like it's almost like a universe.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that's that's kind of kind of the good good thing about it.
And what he's saying is that the universe itself.
And this is what I assume is going to come to eventually because people from outside the universe, if they were added, no one would really notice.
It means the universe itself lacks an identity.
Let's just say this and therefore the universe feels empty.
And there you have your your title.
I will say that, you know, that I could I could there's stuff to discuss there at least so that could actually fix this video if that's where he's going with it.
But drop more committed to the Avengers with like, seriously, that's not going to work.
They can't have everything in here.
It's kind of stupid to be like if you drop Aquaman because it's like, yeah, but Aquaman is a superhero and he's not in it.
Well, my point, yeah, like he's that we don't have a water one yet.
We don't have an Aquaman equivalent.
So, yeah, he would fit in.
I don't really well, let's see.
Let's see how he develops this point.
The MCU has no rules beyond corporate ownership.
It's a superhero hodgepodge.
The same goes for DC rules.
It definitely has rules and superhero hodgepodge.
If what that translates to into is it has lots of superheroes, I'd be like, yes.
Star Wars is like a hodgepodge of bounty hunters and Jedi and and politicians.
DC had done such a pathetic job.
I don't know why he brought them up.
Look at the flash. Look at that chick.
It's just depressing.
Like you went from like the poster for Infinity War, which is so, so well done.
And then we just went to this.
I can't watch Justice League seriously.
I like laugh my ass off watching that film.
It's so funny.
Also, it's like someone like they're not even out of high school with a design like that.
Yeah. Oh, man.
And clearly the DC logo is supposed to be right there in the middle of Batman.
Also, yeah, I guess I played the Ultimate Alliance game recently.
Namor is the guy who's the Aquaman equivalent for the Marvel Universe,
which my point being with that is that, yeah, Aquaman could slip in if nobody knew about him from DC,
because we'd be like, oh, it's a guy who came from an underwater secret society.
He'd be like, I could see that feeling.
They fucking made up Wakanda.
Yeah.
Like they could do anything like it. Yeah.
Like here's a new country.
Oh, God.
He's saying you can add Hawkeye to Justice League.
OK.
Here.
Nobody would care and not just because it's Hawkeye.
Marvel's own problem.
What are you saying, sir?
He's saying that there's no there's no identity to the universes.
Compared to what?
I'm there for that.
You want that?
I mean, that's...
Like we couldn't see Iron Man in Star Wars.
Like we probably could. Mandalorians aren't far away from that.
I think like if if Hawkeye is in Justice League and Aquaman is in Infinity War,
I don't see how that they could be, I guess.
I mean, why not?
I mean, it doesn't make it.
I don't. Yeah.
I don't see how it's going to be overrated.
Yeah.
Or broken.
With a movie universe owned by Fox and likely going to Disney shows a better way.
This universe is not just crossovers.
Every character, human and mutant.
Pretty important.
So if we if we put Iron Man in X-Men, people would likely notice.
Yeah.
And so what he's trying to do here is he's trying to compare a very different realm of universes.
He's saying he's used a rather dishonest argument because he's compared to the DC universe,
which is a superhero universe, with the Marvel universe, which is a superhero universe.
And then and then is bringing the X-Men universe in as something that is different.
But X-Men isn't necessarily the same genre.
I mean, even though there are clear differences.
Yeah.
The X-Men universe relies on the world being the way it is.
Exactly.
Not to mention.
He instantly said that, by the way, the X-Men universe exists within the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
It would raise so many fucking questions and it wouldn't make sense.
I'm still stuck.
Because what about all these mutants and stuff?
Like what?
This is like a big fucking deal.
You've seen all the X-Men movies, right?
Or maybe.
Most of them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
X-Men films is like the worst of a universe.
It is the worst.
Oh, yeah.
There's nothing worse than X-Men because it contradicts itself everywhere.
And there's jokes about it.
Like Deadpool jokes that he doesn't even understand which continuity he's in because there's like
three.
Or if you count that Logan separated because a lot of people do.
So don't even like it's X-Men one, two and three are in the same continuity.
And then first class days of future past.
Those two films behave as if X-Men one, two and three actually took place within them.
But then it re does it and resets to create X-Men apocalypse and low.
I don't like I don't know.
I don't know.
Basically, he's he's using two very different things and trying to create an equivalence.
But and, you know, X-Men like that can be hardly be called a universe even like no franchise.
Yeah.
What is it?
You guys seen the James Bond universe is more continuity or something.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, James Bond would probably be the closest thing to standalone sequels that you
could possibly get.
Let's put it this way.
You know, he was like you have the Avengers films that bring the single ones together.
All X-Men films are Avengers films.
Like every one of them are Avengers films in their own universe because it's about all the X-Men.
It's not you got the rogue movie, the Wolverine movie and the the Scott Summers movie.
And then we saw X-Men, which brought them together, which, by the way, would probably generate whatever problem he has with the MCU, which I'm not 100 percent clear on anyway.
But I see what I I just can't believe he's referencing X-Men.
It's like notoriously bad for continuity and universe connections, if you know what I mean.
The universe is not just crossovers.
Every character human.
Would you really say that the X-Men has crossovers?
I mean, I think it's because the intention from the beginning was to have all the characters.
But his problem is that with Marvel, it wasn't the intention from the very beginning to have all the characters together.
I think it was dependent on if I am ended well.
And that's pretty much what made it happen.
Yeah. And I have no I have no real problem with that.
Well, it's a safe thing to do if you can try and make money.
Like a crossover does well, like it doesn't have to be your intention from from the start.
You know, if you can build on that and turn that cross over into something productive and genuinely like the contributes to both stories of characters involved, then, you know, like, why does it matter what the initial intentions were?
And mutant has taken sides in a generation's long battle with real stakes.
Unlike Marvel Civil War.
Oh, what? But Captain America was born in what year exactly?
Real stakes. Unlike Civil War.
Oh, wow.
Real stakes.
I'm not going to bother boring you guys to death with an explanation.
I'm just going to make a video for that film one day, but I'll just say wrong.
Oh, boy.
Real state.
Do you remember when do you remember when some Avengers ate cake?
That was those.
Oh, yeah.
Those that weren't Avengers.
That was Batman.
Or just somebody.
Get your lore straight, man.
That was from like the 40s.
It's all for the upside.
That leads to creative possibilities like decade jumping and even creative possibilities like decade jumping.
They literally have to ignore past sometimes.
They're like, oh, fuck, that didn't happen.
And you're arguing that the connections in the MCU are so surface and skin level while they do.
They have they literally jump decades in X-Men.
So we can't even connect them other than the actors.
What are you talking about?
Tonal experimentation with deep integration to the external experimentation.
How could you not say that Thor Ragnarok was not a tonal experimentation?
Yeah, there's nuts.
I don't know where the hell he's coming from with this.
I don't know.
Stop using X-Men.
Just trying to share.
Let's let's be clear.
Mythology.
Stop using X-Men.
If not the continuity.
Oh, he said if not the continuity there, did he?
Oh, OK.
How could you ignore the continuity?
Mythology.
If not the continuity.
Yeah, you say the mythology is the positive, not the continuity.
I don't know what the fuck that means.
It's funny.
Sure.
How do you have mythology without continuity?
Like you can't build anything if you have no continuity.
You can only just declare.
Yeah, then I mean, it would be the most.
I mean, mythology without continuity would be the most.
Story start and finish within their own story.
Yeah, it's like every single every single story you heard about Zeus would be its own completely.
He's wrong anyway.
X-Men one, two and three.
They had strong continuity.
It's just that's where it starts and ends for the X-Men universe pretty much.
What a bizarre video.
What a strange video.
In Marvel experiments, like with Jessica Jones, the big tie in to the MCU is merch.
Do you have any cool toys in your room you want to show me?
Do you know Captain America?
Yeah, well, I haven't seen Jessica Jones thoroughly, so I can't tell you what the connections are.
But I don't trust this guy at this point.
So it's just it's just it's just like, yeah, of course, that's going to be so much Tony Stark could make an appearance and Jessica Jones and they wouldn't mention it.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah.
If that is their roommate, they would say anything.
It's it's it's such like, of course, there are times when they just push much like from time to time shamelessly like no, no one's down there.
But there are many, many crossovers that are creative and actually do things with the characters.
So I find he's probably being a bit selective with his examples.
And not to mention that if a kid is in the universe where the Avengers exists, he probably does have action figures for them.
I probably would if I was his age.
Yeah. Yeah.
X-Men movies are not all good, but they do have a universal logic that is.
What does that universe?
They have universal logic, but they don't have good continuity.
It's like, how do those reconcile exactly?
Stronger than Tommy Westfall's snow globe.
Ah, there it is.
It's stronger than the snow globe, as I already just said.
The reference is back.
Oh, that paid off, didn't it?
Wow.
OK.
Is he is he say the the MCU is the snow globe and the X-Men is better than the snow globe?
I'm guessing that's what it is.
Yeah, I understand how how like controversial that Last Saint Elsewhere episode was with a fucking snow globe.
Like people were pissed because they had been good.
No, it's fine.
Here's another task.
Oh, no.
Little old you were in a movie.
Which universe would change you in X-Men?
You'd have to decide where you fell in a decades long battle.
Doesn't matter.
Or humans.
No, you wouldn't.
And if you were a mutant, you might have to make that decision.
But even then you wouldn't have to.
Yeah, you wouldn't have to take a side.
He's referring to the narrative as well, by the way, which is unfair for Infinity War.
You should compare it to Civil War, where you actually had to make a decision on the accords.
That would make more sense.
This is just stupid.
Why are you comparing it to Infinity War where a giant space alien comes to kill everybody?
It's like, which side are you going to be on the left?
Do you want to die or don't you?
Pick a side.
He's like, Thanos is pretty sound bloke.
Yeah, I'm on board with Thanos.
I'll be honest.
In the MCU, you'd be like this kid in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Your big decision would be to buy some merch.
I'm okay.
What the fuck am I listening to?
Thanos is about to kill you, and you think, you know what, I could use some merch.
Did you think that made sense when he said that?
As a comparison, in X-Men, you choose whether or not ideologically you should fight for the right to exist as a mutant with violence or with political points and stuff.
This is Marvel, where all you would do is buy merch.
It's like, what?
What?
Marvel has flirted with a richer universe, one in which the lives of all people are transformed by a shared history.
You know what, he's totally reading this from a script and probably has no idea.
He doesn't actually give a shit, does he?
I'm not trying to say the critical of the guy, he's clearly a mouthpiece for the video.
But he's reading this as if he's just like, Marvel is this, right?
I don't know.
What are movies?
This is true, Interstellar is a movie.
What are film?
Right now, would anybody be surprised if Disney forced a Marvel-Star Wars crossover?
There would be a time where maybe that would be interesting, but I know that Disney would fuck it up, and then they would ruin Marvel by proxy.
Not only that, but I don't even know how you do that, because you'd have to get the Avengers to travel through time and over a massive amount of space.
You would have to have some sort of an interdimensional portal that would transport you to a place far away that also brought you far back into time.
I just think the Jedi turned into the Wizards from Harry Potter.
To clarify, I would be surprised.
I don't think Star Wars, I don't think Disney's going to do that.
I think the IP's separated, I don't think they're going to do that.
They probably don't want to take Marvel.
In the late 80s, the Marvel comic damage control toyed with the consequences of superhero life.
Like Civil War does, which is something that you said has no stakes.
Life on the world at large, that made its cameo in Spider-Man Homecoming a thrilling indicator of where the...
Which comes out, was that before or after Civil War?
But that's the fucking point of the movie!
Was that he's trying to take advantage of the damage the Avengers did in...
Well, the aliens did, and they're trying to sell...
Spider-Man Homecoming came out after Civil War, I'm pretty sure.
I think it did too, but my point is, it's like he just pretends these films don't exist with these comments.
I love he says it's a cameo.
It's literally this guy's origin story.
He's a scrap collector, and he's collecting alien scrap because of Avengers.
Do you understand the connection?
You could go.
It was a world that anybody could imagine themselves in.
But until that experimentation transforms the movies, the MCU is just a business strategy.
The universe...
Of course it's a business strategy!
I mean, the universe can't be bad, it can't be good or bad.
It's not just a business strategy.
The idea that it's like, they just want to make money when they release these films.
Money is not good or bad.
They can't make any more if they don't make money.
The film may have the intention of making money, but you still also have consequences of how the film is going to be received and so on.
There are other things that people have to take into account when making these films.
That's why I assume they try to actually...
I mean, some of them, they try and make them good.
Good Lord.
And just the idea that he's saying this as if the X-Men series was created with no intention of making money or something.
No.
It's still in development.
If you want just the facts about Marvel, please check out...
Then we'll go fucking look at somebody else.
We're not gonna...
The biggest corruption scandal in Latin America's history.
That's a strange video to jump from with this video.
I have the feeling like they probably won't get too many devout fans.
Crossover.
What about the Vox cinematic universe?
Oh, God.
Well, I mean, did you guys see the interesting part of this video?
The like, dislike bar was insane.
Oh, yeah.
It's awful.
20%.
You could tell, right?
It's like, what even was his point?
Okay.
It is 31,000 up and 97,000 down.
Oh, dude.
This is awful.
I mean, that was just...
You didn't even make it to the 10 minute mark, the poor guy.
The top comment is,
anyone else feel like they just watched 9 minutes and 38 seconds of nothing?
Yeah, I do, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
There's a lot of interesting conversations that you could have from this video.
You could be like, what are the pluses and cons of the MCU versus the X-Men universe?
I'd be like, yeah, I'm up for that.
That's cool.
It's a conversation, but...
There's just a load of different points thrown together and created a big ball of fuck all.
I mean, it's a mess of a video and it's...
What's he trying to say?
I don't know.
This is the thing.
I think that if we had this guy here, he'd probably be like, I don't know, man, I read this script.
I don't know what the fuck.
I mean, he did have some very clear eye contact.
I'm not sure whether he was just like...
Also, I don't know how people who worked on this.
It makes sense.
Get it so wrong.
The story editor.
Does that mean the script?
Story editor.
Sounds more formal.
Sounds more professional.
Not just a script writer or your story editor.
That's so pretentious, if that's what that means.
The story of this video.
Five, six people made this video.
Hey, remember, not clickbait.
Six people got together and made this awful video.
But yeah, this got into number two on trending, I think, as well, which, by the way, is like, this is the power of clickbait, guys.
This is a nothing video, and just because of the thumbnail and the name, it's boosted.
It has 1.7 million views.
I don't know why.
It should not have really got out of the gates.
I think people are curious.
I know I was.
And they're like, what?
Well, I think Captain Midnight's responded to this personally, and you'll find a lot of MCU people.
I think even the patch of the nerd guy I've talked about before, people like him, me, and whoever else would be like, I'll hear an argument for this.
Sure.
Go ahead.
But we did really get it because he said that Spider-Man Homecoming was surface level.
Civil War had no stakes.
All you do in these universes comparatively is on one by merch and the other one you get invested in the actual ideological war.
It's like none of these things are true.
It's just silly.
Yeah, that just makes sense.
Why would you say that?
Again, like I said, it felt like someone in the thing was like, we need to make a Marvel video and we needed to make it impactful.
It's a good time to make a Marvel video.
I don't even know.
That's the level of passion that feels like it came from this video.
Why?
I don't know.
I'm just amused at this.
This is a mess.
It's a hot mess.
It is 24 percent upvote.
Jesus.
Beautiful.
What the hell?
The ongoing question of how the hell does this even happen?
I want to reflect on it and look at the arguments, but there was just such a different mix of things that you can't pick apart a logical narrative even if you wanted to.
It's just a mess.
It's just these ideas in a mixing bowl.
I mean, at least we knew where the first crossover came from and how they actually cross over the werewolf and the Frankenstein monster back in the day.
They were useful to his point.
Batman and Superman had cake in the fortress of solitude.
Well, again, Superman had a fucking big ass knife.
If you didn't know that, would you have understood his point?
Be honest.
If you didn't know that, would this video have made sense?
It elevated this from a one out of ten to a two out of ten.
I knew it.
Yeah.
There we go.
There we go.
It's going off already.
Just because I could walk away saying, well, at least I learned something.
Good old Vox then, because again, I haven't seen videos from them.
So I'm just assuming this is what they do.
Oh, good.
Videos that have extremely strong research and reasoning.
That's going to be excellent stuff.
Yeah, I think it's safe to say that we'll probably stop there.
I'm just going to read out the super chats and then we'll have we'll have ourselves an outro.
So go pee if either of you need to.
Excellent time.
I think we can survive this.
Moolah is better.
Moolah sucks.
I'll enjoy you fapping later on the better channel.
That's my second channel, which, yes, you guys can find this.
This podcast will be on there.
Sorry, but not sorry.
It is all along with DC.
Is that what it's called into the DCEU?
The DC Cinematic Universe.
Oh, that's probably it.
DCU.
I just thought it was the expanded universe.
Whatever.
Both are nothing compared to Raimi Spider-Man or Nolan's Batman.
Star Wars Episode 3 had a better buildup than Civil War or Infinity War, but Vox is restarted.
Well, thank you for the donation, of course, but I would have to disagree.
I think the DCU fits the bill.
I'd hate living in these cities with all the Dragon Ball Z shit going on,
but Vox will make nine points in disguise of one for that, too.
I don't even think they brought up the idea that you wouldn't want to be in these universes
because destruction happens, but hey.
Hateful Eight is better a Marvel movie than Infinity War.
C. Roy, yes.
I like Hateful Eight.
I think Marvel is.
I like Hateful Eight.
This is the wiki game of film analysis.
I mean, yeah, it looks like you got a lot of stuff from...
I could imagine that somebody on their team knew about that stuff.
They had, like, a comic book person that was like, yeah, I can answer this stuff.
They had, like, scans of actual comics.
So that would be neat.
She's back in 1939.
Fake brand cigarettes would unify, like, 25% of film and TV by Vox's logic.
Oh, yeah, yeah, how arbitrary the connections are in that snow globe.
It's like, yes, everything is in a giant universe if you're going to be that vague about it.
You know, this character talks about pencils, and pencils exist within this universe.
I remember tricking my mom into believing Nick Fury was the demo man from TF2.
Next MCU phase might be Avengers versus X-Men.
They could do it.
We'll have to... That's going to be a clusterfuck, though.
That would be a clusterfuck, and it would be like, how bad would the X-Men lose?
Oh, well, that's the thing, because, well, they got the Phoenix, though.
That's going to be the next one.
I'm assuming she'll die by the end of it or not.
Who knows? We'll find out.
In Spider-Man Homecoming, they're building a LEGO Death Star, so I don't see why Marvel would do that.
We Know Star Wars is a movie in the MCU.
Yeah, like I said, I doubt they'll join them up.
Unlike Civil War, Dildo Baggins.
Excellent.
Dildo Sagins is the poor parody Lord of the G-Strict.
Beautiful.
Thank you all so much for those donations.
We've had a wonderful little stream.
I was going to say, I will start posting a link to your channel, in my opinion.
Before you say anything, I'll say that he makes a lot of videos that I actually really like,
in terms of, you know, obviously not the one that he made about me and Rags.
That's less preferable.
But, for example, the video he made on the animators and the, I don't know how to explain this one,
but the one about the calendar that was expensive.
Oh, Zoella.
Yeah, that one.
And the one that I obviously watched you put out recently about Behind the Meme.
They're like, they're reasonable breakdowns of what's happened with this particular subject over time.
Like where it starts, how it develops, what people responded to it with,
and let's say the right opinion about it at the end, in a sarcastic tone.
So, consider checking out some videos and obviously consider subscribing.
It's completely up to you.
If you want, Thierry, you can try and sell your channel.
Why should they subscribe to you?
I don't know.
I mean, if you enjoy my content, then definitely drop a subscription.
I'm really accessible, too.
If you want to reach me on Twitter, you can at the right opinion and Discord as well.
I'm trying to be an open person.
I'm definitely trying to make the best content I can.
And obviously, I do appreciate the feedback coming in.
So, yeah, I just got to see what you think.
Obviously, if you don't like my content, I wouldn't expect you to subscribe.
But, you know, give it a check out.
Tell me what you think.
I do try and mix it up from the normal commentary genre,
which is people just like spitballing opinions,
actually try and give them an analytical look and say,
well, let's look at the facts and then let's see what we can do.
And then, of course, my co-host is Rags,
which you guys are probably more than aware of.
And you'll find his link in the description.
He'll be coming out with a video soon, I hope.
Right, Rags?
I think, actually, just a second ago, oh, yeah, 20 minutes ago,
I just got the final, finalized finished assets,
new art stuff for the channel while we were streaming.
That just got sent to me.
But here's the kicker.
And let's see, it's the 26th.
On the 30th, like it's seven in the morning on the 30th,
I leave to catch a plane because I'll be going to the Grand Canyon
for until November 7th.
So I'll be gone during that time.
I'm hiking across the Grand Canyon.
So you're going to be on the same upload schedule as me then?
I thought I got this art stuff back pretty soon,
but what I can do is I'm actually about to go hike in about an hour and a half,
two hours, which is why I said I had to leave at five to do practice for that.
But tonight, what I can do is I can put all the art assets together
and maybe I can get something hammered out here,
but I am not certain.
So, but don't worry, like I've got all this stuff ready,
and that's kind of what I was waiting for.
Took a little break, did a little rebrand of sorts.
I'm not a rebrand, but a refresh.
But yeah, I've been saving links on stuff to reply to.
But do not, you worry, there just might be kind of an extra delay
because of this trip I have to take really soon.
Fair enough.
That's just an unfortunate co-inkey dink.
I am still working on the TFA series.
There's an update I put up yesterday on the Patreon
if you want some sort of detailed, more detailed breakdowns,
and they're not, you don't have to pay for them,
they're all there available just so I don't have to keep sending them
in different places and stuff.
And of course, if you wanted to see this whole podcast,
then you'll be able to find it on my second channel,
which I just copied that link, I'm assuming that's my second channel.
I hope it is.
Either way, thank you all for watching,
and of course the generous donations and much respect,
Mr. TRO, for coming on.
I appreciate the clarification and the effort.
I appreciate the discussion as always,
and I hope it's given some sort of closure to the situation.
Yeah, I think so.
Certainly myself, I would say,
and hopefully for the fans in that old chat.
Chat's often very reasonable, so it's for sure.
Yeah, I think it's just with Quentin they have their big...
Which is probably never going to be resolved for days.
Which is probably never going to be resolved,
but I will have no problem meaming him into the future.
Yeah, so that's about it.
Thank you all for giving your attention
and you guys for responding and talking for the videos.
We'll see you next week.
No idea exactly when me and Rags will figure out something with somebody.
Tune in next time for episode 11, the standalone sequel.
It's episode 10 of Every Frame a Pause.
Oh, pause!
No, wait, yeah, that is it.
Every Frame a Pause.
Yeah, boy.
Goodbye.
