And yes, you're right. There are probably people out there who are really disappointed when me, Rags and Wolf or whoever else get purported as these demons that come after people for thinking.
And then it's like, oh, they're nice. Oh, oh, yeah, we're actually quite nice people.
It sounds vague. It's like, no, no, we literally just try to say we're friendly. It's pretty reasonable.
All things considered, we're not going to try and get you like fired over things and we're not going to.
Yeah, we're pretty nice. I think we're pretty nice. I think I'm pretty nice.
Yeah, I guess it's just it's not cool to have your own opinion anymore.
Like you've just got to go with the hive mind and virtue signal, absolutely everything.
And it's just you can't be honest and realistic anymore. Otherwise, you're a Nazi.
So, oh, OK. Oh, well, I tried. Yeah.
Hey, Rags, people are still running with the rag ass meme from basically rag apostrophe.
Yes. Yeah. Well, I don't know if you you know about this, Al, but it in Clinton's last video, when they had like texts to explain something about like they'd be like, this is from Rags's video context.
They would spell his name as R.E.R.A.G. apostrophe. Yes.
Rags is like, I don't know how you can spend that much time on a video about somebody and fuck their name up, especially when it's on four letters.
But, OK. All right. Oh, my gosh. We stressed out type of that name.
So it was so hard. And it's like, I mean, you did just did you not just look at his channel?
That's all you had to do.
If you say the funny way, it almost sounds like racist.
That's probably what he's probably aiming for.
So here to type R.A.G.
You can type it all with your left hand, which frees your right hand up for anything you want.
You know, that's very true.
Correct. That has two right hands.
Speaking of which, so some some funny thing, Rags, you know about Quintin's Ben Shapiro tweet, right?
Um, no, I don't. Oh, my.
So I want to appear.
I have I have a Ben Shapiro shirt that I wore yesterday.
It's all right. People already hate Rags.
So you can't get any words.
It's fine. Yeah.
Well, you'll find this extra interesting that Rags.
So Quintin put out a tweet after.
Did you remember PewDiePie did did some memes with Ben Shapiro?
I know of it. Yeah.
It was really like faux hosted meme review a couple of maybe like a week or so ago.
So unfortunately, Quintin got wind of it and he put out a tweet, which I would if you just Google it, you'll find it.
I haven't got a link, unfortunately.
But he said the problem with PewDiePie allowing Ben Shapiro onto his platform means that he humanizes Ben Shapiro.
And you should not do that.
Well, listen, I totally agree, Quintin, because from from history,
we know exactly what happens when you go around dehumanizing the Jews, you know.
It's so it's so it's such a you read it.
You're like, you should just say that to you.
You just say don't humanize a human. Right.
That's so that didn't that didn't do well.
You you know that the the video from PewDiePie was three weeks ago.
It has six point two million views and is ninety nine percent positive.
Yeah. So just said it's meme review.
It's how do you what's what's what's happening?
Like, why have you taken this so it's just he's enacting great political change.
They're reviewing memes with Ben Shapiro fucking.
Yeah, PewDiePie's ruined it. We're all doomed.
Well, and then you must have.
I'm pretty sure we talked about the one where he he said that
he's it's good that PewDiePie lost his series and that Logan Paul didn't lose his movies in terms of YouTube.
Remember that tweet? Yeah, yeah.
Reasoning being the you know, Logan Paul, he filmed a dead guy,
but then he didn't do it again and PewDiePie kept getting into controversies.
So, you know, Logan Paul's goodie and PewDiePie's a baddie.
It was just like you read it and again, people are just like, what?
The slip of a tongue in on a live stream,
like a momentary lapse of sense and saying the wrong word on the live stream.
How is that comparable to planning and filming and editing a corpse in a foreign country
and showing it to millions of children worldwide?
That is just your opinion, you know how this is kind of Jesus Christ.
So if you if you go to YouTube and unironically type in PewDiePie Ben Shapiro,
the first thing that pops up is PewDiePie's videos.
But the fourth one down is from a YouTuber named Jay Longbone.
And the title of the video is Quentin Reviews Destroys Ben Shapiro.
Have you seen that video?
I haven't seen it yet, but it's clear it's anti-Quentin.
We need we need to watch that podcast over because it's really funny.
I showed Alex it's just funny.
But the top comment is Dr.
Shame, who has four hundred eighty thousand subs or whatever.
And he said, Quinton left a positive comment on that asinine.
Shut up about plot holes.
As somebody who presents themselves as some kind of authority on movies,
that made me lose a ton of respect real quick.
Let me tell you.
I love how Quinton just consistently does things
that are just against this podcast, like the opposite of what we think.
Like, well, I'd quit at another fantastic take.
So, yeah, those things are like more more the older stuff.
So so he released a video called Fallen Titans Copy Cats or something like that.
And he's just talking about how, you know, some YouTubers just directly copy others
to be successful, which is a fine topic.
There's a lot of people who do that.
And
I don't know how else to frame this.
So he's talking about how there's a lot of angry gamers out there.
And it would be stupid to say that every angry gamer is a ripoff of AVGN.
Just like it's stupid to say that every racist gamer is a ripoff of JonTron.
His audience would not happy with that one.
That's what Quinton said.
He delivered that as if it was like a joke, but he was pretty unironic about it.
He thinks JonTron is a racist.
Yeah, JonTron is a racist.
He's just poor and articulating.
Yeah, I know.
I'm fairly in the dark about that particular controversy,
because I have always been a huge fan of JonTron and like things were kicking off.
I didn't really look into it too much.
Like, what did he actually say?
He said a couple of things, the most egregious.
And for people to be like, this is politics.
To be like, this is literally about video game and movie reviewers ripping into each other.
So like, we're just trying to get to the specifics and sadly, they involve politics in a way.
So JonTron took a statistic from something that I guess had like zero credible sources that said,
on average, rich black men commit more crime than poor white men or white people.
I've heard that statistics true, depending on how you quantify it.
Well, I mean, depending on your quantifier would be important context.
Oh, yeah, rich and poor is obviously where's the I mean, I'd be surprised.
It's considering unless you're going to because this is the thing.
Some people like Trump is the biggest criminal in the world.
And you'd be like, oh, are we doing the whole like we're talking about crimes as in,
you know, hurting and stealing or like we're talking about walking like.
Yeah, so either way, that's one of the worst things
he said, or at least the really pissed people off.
What was the point he was trying to make?
The whole the whole the whole debate was about trying to keep.
You know what, I don't want to say in case I paraphrase wrong, I haven't seen it.
No, no, that's fine. That's fine.
I can kind of see where this is going to be a topic that many people are very, very touchy about.
Yeah, essentially, JonTron just doesn't articulate himself well on the spot
when he was talking about that kind of thing.
Yeah, and and he put out an apology and he said he was very inexperienced with the whole thing.
Yes, I saw obviously in the Gokunaru video where he where he took down H3.
There was a there was quite a big section on that about how he kind of grilled JonTron on the podcast
and was a bit of a dick to him and stuff.
And I just kind of like really felt for JonTron in that moment.
But I wasn't 100 percent sure what he'd actually said.
I assumed it was blown out of proportion, but it all comes down to pretty much what makes a racist.
Is it when they say things that could make make an ethnicity or a race look bad
when they've just got bad information or if it's twisted information or if it's information, they would generate.
And then it's a whole thing. And Quentin's just said, no, he's racist.
And it's like, OK, I don't think JonTron is racist.
I think that he just handled the situation really badly because, well, yeah,
like to it to be able to define someone as a racist, you've got to look at like it's doing well.
You say that, but it is actually kind of complicated because I wish it was that for everyone else.
But like it gets thrown around a lot.
Yeah, that's the thing.
Like the whole idea of this is losing so much of its potency.
And it's just like even in that situation, someone came out and said, oh, JonTron's a massive racist.
And I automatically was like, right, who's blown something out of proportion now?
Oh, yeah. I'm not thinking, oh, my God, what's he done?
I'm thinking, oh, my God, what have people misconstrued?
Yeah, when people say you're a racist, I'm like, no, they're not.
I don't even know without knowing anything about it.
I'm like, no, they're probably not.
And like, correct me if I'm wrong, but Destiny debates people like daily like he has like thousands of debates.
That's all his channel is.
And so he's more than capable of dismantling somebody, whether or not either side is even right.
Ronald has information.
His whole thing is like he's working on.
He's been working on.
So you've got someone who's never done it before against someone who's like as experienced as they come.
And so it was just a mess.
And you can check it out in the original context.
But the point is that he casually just threw the JonTron is racist at his covered sexual.
We're not happy with that one.
And then there's going to be a lot of crossover there.
Right. Oh, definitely.
Who who, you know, most people I know on YouTube were a fan of JonTron.
His content's fucking amazing.
Well, that's the thing. I love JonTron's content.
And he did a in Sargon had a livestream with JonTron afterwards.
And that shit's like seven hundred thousand views.
I think that was before, wasn't it?
It was after, I think I'd have to check the timeline.
But I remember that was strange because like JonTron with Sargon.
Like, wow, what a smashing of wheels, you know.
Yeah, it was on January 27th.
The the the the Destiny one or the Sargon one.
I don't know. I'd have to check both.
Oh, yeah, it didn't turn out well for Destiny.
Well, Destiny, I think Destiny actually said that he it worked really well for him
in terms of, you know, clicks and stuff.
Well, that's the thing.
When you say when you don't say I won, you say, well, I got a lot of clicks for it.
You know. But yeah, so you go from there.
And that, by the way, came up, you know, when talking about game reviewers
who copy other game, it's like, what?
Why did. OK, that was a bit weird.
But then it gets even weirder because you got
Logan Paul's film comes out, The Thinning Two, I believe it's called.
And Quentin reviewed it because he's reviewed the first one
and it did really well for him.
And there's this bit where he's talking about some kind of political system
in the film and he said it might be commentary on Trump.
And then it just like stops for a second.
He goes, I fucking hate Trump.
And then he goes on a Trump rant.
And it's like, what the hell?
This is this is a movie review like this is a.
All right. Thanks for making sure that we know that you don't like Trump.
And, you know, again, that.
Sorry.
Is that we get we got it.
We always got to throw in that little orange man bad in there.
Oh, that always gives me that.
Gives me that feeling of that fucking Steve Bushami meme.
Hello kids.
How do you do, fellow kids?
It's like, yeah, look at me, guys.
I've got the same opinion as you.
You guys want to get it.
You guys wanted like political commentarians review, right?
In this video.
But yeah, so that this is the kind of shit that I know why people
do not like politics in their movie reviews.
They really don't.
It's like where the hell did this get that you would
if you've got people who despise Trump, there are people like that
who would listen to that and go, what the hell?
Like I was just casually listening to some fun times.
I was just like, by the way, Trump, I hate him.
It's like, OK, that didn't do too well either.
And then do you guys know about the PewDiePie versus T-series thing?
Yeah, I know that I don't even know.
I know of them.
They might, but I don't know anything.
I don't know. I've never heard of T-series before this.
Well, that's because they're new.
They've only been around for like a few months.
It's amusing because it's like a collective corporate Indian channel
that has Indian music and Bollywood stuff on it, I believe.
And so India being one of the most densely populated parts of the world,
have that channel is something they flock to, I guess,
like a lot of people would have subscribed to it from India
and then people outside of it, if they enjoy the music, whatever.
It's managed to take over PewDiePie as far as I know.
So it's weird. And there was this there was this time
where PewDiePie was releasing videos that were memeing about
how you got to fight this war, defeat them in the subscriber count.
There was like a guy who was a fan of PewDiePie, I guess,
and he was putting up billboards and having radio talks
in his town, promoting PewDiePie's YouTube channel.
And it's the kind of shit where you're just like, this is just so dumb.
Yes. It's Mr. Beast, the guy who did it.
And like when he did that, it obviously brought a lot of well,
brought my attention to his channel.
So I kind of like went through a few of his videos.
And it really seems like, you know, in like a game show
when they say an amount of money and then the audience just claps
for some fucking reason.
That's basic. That's the basis of his channel.
It's like, I have ten thousand dollars and I'm going to give it
to this prostitute.
And that's the video.
And then it's like, I've got twenty thousand dollars
and I'm going to give it to this homeless man.
It's like, OK, well, fair enough.
Cool. So you got any ideas?
So this is going on.
And they made a big deal about how PewDiePie hit 69 million
before them, because obviously 69 and then PewDiePie was like,
I want to reach sixty nine, sixty nine, sixty nine, sixty nine
before them. And I can't remember if he did or not.
But the point is that this was going on.
It was amusing.
I would look in every once in a while and be like,
but in your head, you know, it's like, yeah,
theory series will take over eventually because how do you even have
a singular personality beat what is essentially
you could argue is like a genre in terms of just it's it's
it's not specific while PewDiePie is arguably a niche thing,
even though he's so popular.
But yeah, so I'm pretty sure it got to the point where they beat him.
And then Quinton released a video on this subject
and it was like, what?
And by the time I heard about it, it was gone.
And I was like, OK.
And I looked for a re-upload, which you guys can find.
It's very easy.
And he spends a video explaining it's like nine minutes.
And the first part is he's like, oh, yeah.
So T series are this thing.
And he explains what they are.
He's like, PewDiePie is this thing and explains all that is.
And then he's like, and they compete in for the most subs.
The reason why PewDiePie obviously is winning,
because he released the right things at the right time.
Yeah. And then T series released as a as a thing
that is arguably a huge thing that people will be interested.
So why not? And then he ends it with saying
the whole thing is sad and PewDiePie doing this,
running this war against them is just sad.
And it reminds he said it was like a jogger
running up to a fellow jogger and just shouting to them, I'm going to beat you.
And because because we all know that PewDiePie did it with malice.
That's the thing. It was like the strongest analogy.
Yeah, he's not like we have to do it because of memes.
And he's weird because I was like, this whole joke, like this whole point is a joke.
If you ignore if you ignore the race between those two channels,
because it's not really relevant, it's just a perfect opportunity
to for PewDiePie to just quickly build his subscriber base.
Yeah, apparently you're going to overtake him anyway,
so he might as well make a big deal out of it and get as much money as he can.
How much as much attention as he can.
Yeah, Quinton got a lot of backlash quick
because obviously people like PewDiePie and understood that it was a joke.
And then he he apparently had some comments on the video
trying to explain that he wasn't serious.
He was kind of he's kind of joking.
And then he took the video down permanently.
And I was like, oh, that's just like the Citizen Kane thing.
He really tried to parody me.
And it just went to shit.
And he was like, I was joking, God damn it.
If you if you have to explain that what you said was a joke,
you didn't like a joke.
And yeah, so you might be like, why am I bringing this up?
It's like, well, the interesting thing is now there's like already four
and there's more coming, I suppose, of like Quinton
is becoming shit videos, you know, and like Quinton is becoming a problem.
And I was just like, wow, I wonder if he's he's headed for
like a crash and burn sort of situation with all this shit.
He keeps shoving politics into his movie reviews,
which is just the kind of stuff where people are just like,
oh, yeah, and it's people thought it was unlisted, but it's it's just gone completely.
And yeah, you know, good luck in the future, Quinton.
But he went on the official podcast and there's even comments
about me and Rags in there.
People like, does anyone know what he did?
It's like, wow, he actually managed to get to some people's ears, I guess.
Or at least there's a lot of follow over with people who are fans of critical
and people who watch this channel, maybe I don't know.
But either way, that's the only other thing I should mention
from the previous podcast, actually, was that
if you remember, what's his name?
Major Lee said that he was the guy to predict that Ray wouldn't have any parents.
Apparently Thor Skywalker did, and he's a relatively popular Star Wars channel.
So and he's someone that hated the last Jedi.
So I just find it amusing.
So like, if only we had like that clip.
And so Major Lee was ego would take yet another hit the poor guy.
Yeah. Oh, and I got verified Rags.
I got a tick next to my name now.
Oh, good. Good, good.
That means I'm a real person.
What are the requirements for that sexy little tick you've got there?
Apparently it's 100,000 subscribers.
That's all they want.
Well, that's generally 100,000 sub special cases.
You can get it before.
But they sent you your shiny little plaque yet.
No, I don't know about mine.
No, I haven't even ordered it.
They don't send it automatically.
You have to go through how they get my well.
Soon enough, let's change some stuff.
People always act like so nonchalant about it.
Like, oh, well, I just received this in the past.
You fucking ordered it.
Jenna said, well, as a checkbox, now time to get political is like, yeah,
I could sell what we do when we get 100K.
We're like, that's it.
No, I can stay stuff through my channel.
I forgot that's the thing that that is a thing at all.
Well, I mean, check there's a meme in there.
We say check marks on Twitter.
Go nuts at stuff.
It's like a check marks on YouTube are probably not the same thing.
I don't know.
No, because it's just based off popular because I
originally on Twitter, it's like how it is on gab is it is actual verification.
The original point on Twitter was you have to prove that the owner
of the account is you and it verifies you.
But now it's like a status symbol.
It's like a two is basically a two tier sort of culture on Twitter.
Twitter shit, by the way.
That's like your opinion, Rags.
Yeah, it is.
But it's essentially that's why they took the that's why they took
like Milo's verification mark away before he got booted off Twitter.
Like it's used as a status symbol.
And there's a lot of other special little things for it.
But it's not really a verification method.
And, yeah, some people are like, have full Skywalker on.
I'll look into it.
We really don't mind having any guests, to be honest,
as long as they've got interesting things to say.
Right. Pearson, who is a pizza and has a goatee.
And yes, rejoice, my people of whatever.
I have now decided I'm going to release part one of the series,
even if I haven't finished the rest on Christmas Day
to to really sell the theme of giving a gift, you know, because that's how it works.
It's not it's not content.
It's it's me that there's been provided buddy on Patreon to support it.
No, it's just me giving a gift.
That's what it is. 100%.
So I'm going to tell my whole family to fuck off for an hour on Christmas Day.
And I was making the first part two hours and 40 minutes.
Yeah. Yeah.
You guys make room on Christmas Day.
Screw the families.
Two hours and 40 minutes.
All right. So there we are.
They're just emailed YouTube about a silver play button.
Maybe they'll send me one.
It'll be kind of nice, but I mean, it's YouTube.
I mean, they don't give a shit about me or really any creator.
So so they might as well.
I'm a read out the the the current set of Super Chats
and hopefully stay above them a little bit and then we'll we'll move on.
So all the way.
Someone told us told you to stop drinking your soy milk.
How do you?
Was wondering if we do a stream on the shit movie.
Why would anyone defend it?
Well, that'll be this context for this.
There's wonderful, wonderful context.
Quinton was on the most recent episode of the official podcast,
and I'm scared to watch it level.
You guys send Wolf my love.
Well, you know, you still got critical on there.
So you can you can enjoy that.
I'm sure Quinton was a wonderful guest.
And thank you for the very generous donation.
Tell Wolf we miss him.
We absolutely will pass on the message.
How's everyone doing?
Another chill live stream.
Who's got new things on the horizon?
Well, I'm working on two videos right now.
There you go.
We were talking about the politics thing.
The next one will be a little political, but not in the bad way.
It'll be about politics more than like my politics.
Well, kind of like how what we just talked about was kind of about politics,
but kind of pretty much.
Yeah. And I'm working on a Fallout 76 review.
Whoo hoo. That's going to be a fucking doozy.
That game is shit.
I'm excited for that.
There better be a second video on the docket.
I need to get good long efab tomorrow.
Well, wait.
Well, this isn't even the this isn't a video that we're criticizing.
But again, context is on the way, I swear.
Your politics like your stand, which is like your asshole.
You don't go around showing it off to every person you meet
when you're going to watch Jojo, Gold and Wind
only to react to the torture dance.
Alex, can you translate that?
That he's thought I did.
I mean, rather sad.
OK, I don't know what what what Jojo, Gold and Stan,
I have a feeling that's going to be for me.
Yeah, here's some money for.
Kind of gray Saturday.
Is it always it like bad weather?
Love you guys, but can't watch much on weekends for Saturday streams.
Saturday streams work for me.
Wait, can't watch much on weekends for Saturday streams work for me.
I think he's trying to say he works on a Saturday, I'm not sure.
But yeah, honestly, once Wolf comes back,
you can say goodbye to weekend streams again, because he's he's never available
on weekends off topic.
But I see this one's come up a few times.
The bombers in Starz episode eight would technically work
given the laws of motion.
The bombs would still keep at the same speed and vector
they had when leaving the ship, they're still dumb.
There's a lot of ways you can make it work.
It was just they were propelled from the ship.
Yeah, that's they have to be propelled through the ship in some way.
They just look like they dropped.
Yeah, they don't look like they just slid out of.
Yeah, they rolled.
Let's think they rolled down.
Would you say like gravity?
The even. Well, yeah.
If there's false gravity in the ship, let's not.
OK, yeah, this is not the street for hours and hours of ranting bombers.
Mola, you rags and wolf are a huge inspiration for me.
I'm planning on making substantial videos.
My first being about FLCL and its sequels.
FLCL, FLCL,
FLCL is.
I don't know.
Well, well, good either way.
Let me take it is a it's an anime.
Looks like we like.
High school or can I enter besties most on the journey?
No, it's yeah, it's an anime.
Listen, yeah, cool.
Sully Cooley, furry, curry, furry, curry.
I don't know.
But, yeah, no, good stuff.
We like we absolutely would want to encourage people to make.
Recognize this.
This used to be on Adult Swim a long time ago, wasn't it?
Patrick Willems is the Paul Watson of the far left.
Whiny bitch who doesn't debate and makes up theories without logical proof.
Well, well, you guys have been my drunken peasants replacement
since the breakup. Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's like, well, boys,
correction, I work weekdays, I can today.
Oh, good, good, good.
OK, so I'm caught up now.
We have we have guests.
Everyone's so on this show.
And the last one, I believe, was the chase and no way episode five.
That was Doomcock.
And Smud was coming back and we had death bullshit as well.
But our new guest is a guy who's who's makes mixed stuff.
And I figure it's probably better to show you his stuff before saying anything.
So what we're going to do as a crazy.
This might be something we start doing more so in the future.
Me and me and Rags will have to discuss this if it's a good idea or not.
We'll see. We're going to showcase something from this person's channel.
I'm going to play this video for three minutes.
You can you can hit me with copyright if you want.
It's completely up to you.
But we'll we'll see.
Might influence future appearances on the fat.
So you guys just just give this a shot.
Basically, we'll we'll watch it with you and we'll move on from there.
So enjoy. But it's it's a it's a movie reviewer of sorts.
He does animation and just just give it a shot.
Hello, Internet, and welcome to a particularly spooky episode of junk film review.
In this series, we'll be digging through the cinematic graveyard
and covering all kinds of forgotten disasters and movie cadavers
in the hope of finding at least something to laugh at.
I can't remember a time in my life where I wasn't completely sleep deprived
since a very early age.
I've spent sleepless nights hiding under my duvet like a little bitch.
Just kidding.
I was actually hiding under my duvet playing Pokemon like a little bitch
with a flashlight precariously balanced on my chest
or painfully clenched between my teeth because playtendo screens weren't
backlit in those days, and nothing was going to stop me
from becoming the very best like no one ever was,
including the overwhelming natural urge to become unconscious
when it's dark outside.
I was the proud owner and completer of Pokemon's blue, yellow and gold
and would stay awake for as long as my brain would allow
before it performed an emergency shutdown,
rendering me immediately and uncomfortably unconscious
and leaving my playtendo beeping and blooping away at the faintest of volumes
until it slowly passed away in the early hours of the morning.
Much to the dismay of my father, who couldn't for the life of him
understand how my batteries kept dying so quickly,
more rapidly led to the introduction of bumper packs of budget assed batteries.
Maybe these will dissuade the insatiable hunger of my handheld gaming console.
Feed me more batteries.
This was the first reason I subscribed to a life of sleeplessness
and began the onset of irritability, which would undoubtedly lead
to my unapproachable and grouchy attitude towards life and the people in it
until a few years later, when I was gifted with my very own television,
which was probably a direct result of my perpetual nagging,
but I honestly can't remember.
And therefore, the next reason to not sleep was discovered.
Too great was the allure of odd but curious late night programming
such as South Park, Ren & Stimpy, The Tom Green Show, Eurotrash and Banzai.
All of which would help to establish the foundations of my gross
and nihilistic sense of humor.
I also once stayed up past 5 a.m.
watching the BBC Learning Zone on conversational Japanese.
Not entirely relevant, but I just want to illustrate how little was necessary
for me to avoid getting the essential rest my body requires to function.
I can say Domo Irigat, Domo Irigat.
It was commonplace back then for the latter hours of the television
schedule to be filled with the aforementioned programs alongside
bizarre, independent, low budget productions, soft core pornography
and cheaply made and badly acted B movies.
It was at about this time that I acquired another token of sleeplessness.
And that was when I discovered the first and possibly last movie
to ever truly scare me.
And that's the build up.
You're not going to know what the movie is unless you go and check out the video.
So you might be like, how did I find it?
It's because of CJ's cynical reviews, actually,
who pushed me towards checking out the channel as well as I think you contacted
me in DMS, but I think it's it's really entertaining and endearing.
I find it to be.
Obviously, everybody can think of what they want themselves, but that's a taster.
There's a link in the in the chat.
If you guys want to go check it out, or at least put it on a tab
until you're done with this podcast.
But yeah, is there anything you want to, like, I don't know, clarify
about what you do on the channel?
So first and foremost, I want to do like original animated content.
But I didn't really want to just throw it out there into the ether for no one.
So I was just trying to think of an area that I have a well,
a certain amount of knowledge that maybe I could produce some interesting videos.
So I decided to go with film reviews because I've been a massive film nerd
since I was pretty much born and I've like studied it and etc.
And then well, all through like university, I moved on.
Like I used to be a big fan of like world cinema,
specifically like South Korean movies and stuff.
But when I was in uni and doing lots of naughty things, my brain wasn't that great.
So I found this real passion for enjoying shit films.
And it was about that time.
So it's like way back about six, seven years ago, because I'm old as fuck.
But I found The Room and like Troll 2 and shit like that.
And I just really, really just love these terrible movies.
And I force people in my house like to sit down and watch them.
And I just I know I just developed this affinity for just like
terrible trashy bee movies.
And so I kind of use that as like the focus of the channel,
where like in each episode, I'll pick a new really obscure film
that no one's ever fucking heard and just rip it to shreds basically.
But then supplement that with just some like little animations
and like biopic stuff, biographical, I guess, about myself
and the context of my interests and where things have come from.
But yes, it's been fun so far and it's kind of like people are like getting interested.
And certainly I've had a lot more interest in the past month or so,
which has been really nice.
It's so much more, you know, because what you expect on YouTube
is guy sitting on something with camera face to them.
And then he's like, I just got out of the theater.
And this is why I either like or do nothing wrong with that.
It's just that they're the kind of people that you see on 10K subs.
And you should be like, yeah, that's that's cool.
He's doing his thing.
And it's like, why are you on 2K?
What the fuck?
You've got something that other channels don't do weird.
It's strange to see people who put so much effort and work into what's essentially
a really high quality video, and they're not a really big channel.
Yeah, the algorithm just doesn't favor my content at all, because I'm not topical.
I know I'm not I'm not reviewing fucking Fantastic Beasts or whatever's out right now.
A bad movie from 1992.
The horror movie from 1992, so it's pretty low.
And it's a really big pond, and there's lots and lots of fish in it.
And a lot of the times it it's just the fact that there's so many people out there.
Yeah, especially when it comes to movie reviewers, it's just there's so many.
And so hopefully the main thing I struggle with is like, essentially,
like I don't think I've got my creative process nailed at all.
I could definitely produce my videos a bit faster and maybe learn some new techniques
or get some more like better plugins or software or something to make my stuff look better.
But the thing I struggle with is just marketing.
Like, how do you reach out to people?
Like, I've tried loads of different things.
Like I went to Comic Con earlier this year and I printed out like a thousand flyers
and I'd like designed this flyer about the channel and bit of a blurb and some pictures and stuff.
And I went around and spoke to like literally hundreds of people.
And you think at Comic Con, they're the kinds of people that would be interested in what I'm trying to do.
And I got maybe one subscriber from like a whole day of like walking around.
Yeah, I have no idea what the return is for something like that, because they're ridiculous.
Like you and also I didn't realize quite how many 1000 is.
But if you've ever had 1000 of anything, there's fucking loads.
I was like, over encumbered with flyers just walking around trying to get people to look at my stupid channel.
And no one gives a shit. So it's just a difficult game to get because this is the thing.
If every person on the planet was forced to watch one of your videos
and then they could choose whether to subscribe, you'd be fine.
Because at that point, many people will be like, yeah, I'd see them all from this guy.
And that's kind of what I'm getting at is you do a thing.
You're not just reviewing movies.
You've got your own little style with the animation and you've got a neat sense of humor and you've clearly got editing skills.
So it's it's refreshing, is the word, as I as I suppose many people subscribe to anyone for.
So again, Link is in the chat. Check it out.
He's going to be our guest for the day.
And it should be it should be great.
And hopefully it gives you even just a small bump because me and Rags like the idea,
along with the right opinion, who's very much in this sort of position as well,
of trying to promote channels that you can see have talent and just don't have any chance,
because the algorithm is is a horrifying beast sometimes.
And, you know, sometimes you don't just want to put boobs in the thumbnail and put you have to see this in caps on your title.
I've I like I think I'd like to maintain a certain amount of dignity.
What do you want? Dignity or subscribers? You have to choose.
I think like so in all of these like shitty boom movies that I review, there is always tits, always without fail.
And I could I could so easily just screenshot, you know, one of the precarious moments where there's a nipple flying around and get all the 12 year olds to click on my video.
But then I'm what I'm just going to create a fan base of horny little teenagers.
And that's not really what I want.
Well, hopefully, because if you just keep it up, people love integrity.
I'm relatively sure of that as it's just a commonly looked upon trait.
That's a good thing. If you don't give up and do stuff like that and maintain it, you'll eventually not just get a subscriber base.
I think you'll get a strong one.
People who really are fans as opposed to just onlookers sort of thing.
And yeah, hopefully to be able to cultivate like a community of people who genuinely do really care about the finer details of like film theory and stuff like that.
But I know I'm doing it through the guise of just like taking the piss out of terrible movies, which is just kind of low hanging fruit, I guess.
But I try and like use vocabulary and terminology in a way that might turn off more casual kind of people.
So that's probably to my own detriment.
Well, at the very least, if you cover something new, it would be interesting to see if you cover something that comes out recently with this style.
See what can happen.
You know, like there is a there is a movie I've got in mind that I'm just waiting for the DVD to come out.
It's maybe in a week or so.
But the idea I've got for the episode involves lots of practical stuff and it's going to take a long time.
So I think I just need to if I could just rein in my ambition a little bit, I think I could produce videos more quickly and be more reactive to what's going on.
Yeah. But as soon as I achieve something, I just start looking at the next thing.
So like spoiler alert anyway, no one really gives a shit.
But I want to do like an in-depth look at The Happy Time Murders, which is so like an absolute fucking apocalypse that that movie is.
I'm looking at it in its own kind of cultural context and the history of buddy cop movies and then the history of film noir and how history of puppets just shit on both of those things.
Yeah, simultaneously ruining the entire sounds like there could be a long legacy.
But because I'm such a fucking psychopath, I want to make a puppet of my character.
Oh, yeah. Do you like a physical stop frame episode?
Do you see what I mean? Like, so I've got to build like an adult.
It's going to take a while, but yeah, go for it.
But I want to do it because I it's just I don't know, I would have a lot of fun.
I'm really kind of like hands on kind of personal, like creating stuff.
And yeah, I think it'd be great fun.
Well, yeah. So then just to move on to what we're actually here to do today, how long did it take first to actually get to a topic?
Only 40 minutes. That's quite quick for what time.
So the Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom, if you guys like my channel, which would be assumed if you've been watching this, I did a review of it.
It's awful, like really bad. And a lot of people don't feel that way, which is fine.
But we had these two things that came to my attention and I thought, fuck it, we'll throw this into a podcast.
That makes sense.
Some guy called I think it's Shinobi has released four videos that counters basically all the all the people who have, I don't know what you like, reviews over 100K views, I think that are against the film.
Yeah. Shinobi 03, I think the name of it is.
Yeah, I don't know if you the way you said that, I thought maybe you heard of him, but he's he he's got his part one, from what I understand, because I haven't seen all of it,
is more so criticism about film criticism and then part two and three are about specifics and then part four is like a conclusion or something.
But Wolf pops up quite a bit in part two, at the very least, and obviously he's not here today, so we wouldn't want to cover too much of that.
So we might cover more of it as time goes on, but we'll we'll do part one today and we've seen the movie to make sure that we're pretty, you know, we know what we were talking about.
And let's just say that it's an awful, awful film on top of that.
I left a comment because we're going to go through something that he does, which isn't necessarily very cool.
And he put out an apology video that was directed at me, Wolf, and a couple of other people.
So I want to make sure we've got context for this.
But it was a bit weird, the apology video, it had like he was apologizing if he offended anybody, which is fine.
But he also said, like, in fairness, though, you know, the videos were trash and that I just wanted to point out how I was just like, OK, that's kind.
And he said that like, ultimately, it's a good thing because the bad videos helped him make his good video.
And it was like, right. So OK.
And he actually said at the end that he doesn't want to respond to anybody anymore.
He thinks it's a toxic endeavor, which I would never want to ever get to the point where I think that responding is toxic.
Full stop, because, yeah, the whole premise of my channel is just talking through ideas about media.
So I would responding.
Why? Why would you start a conversation with somebody when you can just shout aimlessly into the void?
Isn't a movie review a response in a way?
Yeah, yeah, it is. So responding to a movie, the movie puts forward an argument and then you either agree or disagree.
Like. And yeah, so we're going to check out his part one and, you know, try and keep it as clean as possible.
We'll try and reflect however he approaches it.
And I believe this guy.
I believe he tackles me and Wolf much more along with Nostalgia Critic and Red Letter Media in part two.
But we are mentioned in part one as well as film criticism in general.
So we'll well, we'll give it a shot.
I think it's still around.
Sorry. Sorry.
Is Nostalgia Critic still around? Yeah, he's doing he's still doing well, I believe.
Like he's still getting. Let's let's just have a look quick.
Nostalgia Critic, because he survived the whole change the channel controversy, I believe.
Like that wasn't. Yeah, I don't even think that did much to him at all.
Oh, geez. But it cleared up the backlist of all the people on the website.
See, his last Nostalgia Critic review is up to 300000 views and that was two days ago.
So that's that's pretty good.
He recently did. Oh, wow.
So it was a week ago he did his full in Kingdom one.
So in three, like three hours ago, Channel Awesome put out a Doug reviews of Ralph Breaks the Internet.
It's three hours and 13000 views.
Three hours good, which is good.
But for a channel that has one hundred and ten thousand subs, that's.
Oh, yeah, well, I mean, people are there for the million one hundred thousand subs.
His views are there for the Nostalgia Critic videos, I would say.
I mean, he's not doing amazing or anything, but he's doing.
Oh, yeah. Here we go. Oh, yeah.
Channel Awesome. Yeah. Two days ago, he did a wrinkle in time.
Nostalgia Critic, that's three hundred thirty one thousand.
Yeah, all the other supplement videos are just kind of shit.
And I think he's got to do them for like, I think he signed a contract with the other actors.
And it could be it could be that they required it because you got the tomorrow's never seen stuff
which keeps popping up. So yeah, yeah, that's the second thing that pops up.
Yeah, I can't remember who last who the last video covered all of it.
I swear that that was the reason he's like stuck with them like in contractually.
It wouldn't surprise me, but yeah, I really don't know the goings on for him.
But I'm pretty sure he's survived and he's doing relatively well.
But it's weird because if you put that out a week ago, this guy made his videos quite quickly.
Well, maybe he had it prepared and I don't know.
Either way, let's watch later because I hear this movie's off.
Well, this is the thing, at least I was like, oh, I could probably be sympathetic.
It's like, no, we just got done watching it today.
It's so bad. Like, yeah, there's nothing to be gained from it.
It's still shit. So bad.
Like my dad said that he saw a wrinkle in time on he was curious.
It was on like HBO or something, some channel he had for free for a little bit.
So he watched it and he said, man, I got about halfway through it.
And it was confusion. And he said it was awful.
He said it was just a mess. It was basically unwatchable.
Oh, and I'll get I'll get since this is we're about to start a video.
So the Super Chats.
Thank you guys for improving critical my critical thinking skills regarding movies.
Random question. What do you think of the movie Super from 2010?
Yeah. Who's seen that?
Because I've seen it. That's what I think.
I'm not. Yeah, it's Bill Hader.
It's the kind of not superhero superhero movie.
But is it Bill Hader?
I could have sworn it was the guy from the office, the American office.
It's James Gunn directed it.
He did. What's his name?
Hang on. I'm on IMDB.
Yeah, Rainn Wilson. That's the one.
Oh, really? Oh, weird film.
I'd need to see it again because I saw it when it came out.
But I remember. Oh, yeah. Shit.
It's Rainn Wilson. Sorry.
It's an unconventional superhero movie.
I guess you could call it a little bit more realistic.
I hesitate to say that because I need to see it again.
But yeah, he's just basically got a mental problem.
I do math. I'll see it. I need to I need to fix that.
We can always check it out. Go on. Cool.
But yes. Wait, wait, wait.
When you're watching the stream from the beginning,
so you don't know what the chat is going on about.
Hello from the past. Hope you guys are doing well.
Thank you. All of us doing fantastic.
Right, guys? Right.
Hello from the future.
Yeah, better be. Bravo for the editing and animating pizza guy.
There you go.
Oh, thank you.
Check out YouTuber White Light. He's very good.
Really good. I never heard of him. I'm afraid.
I can't.
Sounds ominous. Yeah.
I can't study mentally. I'm bored. Advice.
I guess I'd recommend this podcast if it's entertaining.
Yeah, this is definitely going to help you.
Watch our shit. Buy our videos.
Buy our videos. Absolutely.
I feel like I'm biased to this podcast, but I recommend this podcast.
I don't know if maybe I'm biased.
Okay.
I could tell that the chairs won't blow their nose.
Just a quick thank you. There we go.
Thank you, KeyBlitz. KeyBlitz. We are definitely through.
So you go. Again, context.
This is a response to everybody, including Nostalgia Critic's Fallen Kingdom videos.
Oh, great. So we may have to defend him.
Disclaimed. Under section 107.
Oh, geez.
Uh-oh.
This video contains...
And controversial opinions people don't usually agree with.
If you are not open-minded, unwilling to be open-minded,
or unprepared to accept opinions that are different than yours,
then it is suggested to stop watching this video right here
and make yourself busy with something that you enjoy.
If you are prepared to listen to the most unusual thoughts about a universally panned movie,
then check your schedule, prepare a snack,
and hope that you get educated and entertained at the same time.
Oh, wow.
Enjoy the show.
Dude. I'm super hyped.
Educate and entertained. We're in for a show.
I love me a bit of edutainment in the afternoon.
I think that could have done with like a little bit of an edit there,
that the tense is all over the place.
Those sentences are very long-winded.
What about that?
I just say don't even have this at all.
Yeah, I don't really...
There's not much point, but it's very...
It's a little bit off-putting though, if you're not open-minded.
It's like, oh, all right.
Turn this off.
Lucky all four of us are open-minded.
So here goes.
Yeah.
I gave you time.
You did give us time.
That's nice.
On this episode of the Shinobi Zero 3 show.
What?
This is just...
So, Star-Lord, I hear you're a fan of music.
What do you say about...
It doesn't look like Star-Lord.
It doesn't look like it's Star-Lord at all.
I feel really sorry for the game of that.
So...
It doesn't fucking look good at all.
I have no idea how long this goes on for.
It looks like Jay Bowman.
That's the Captain America toy.
Wait, is that?
Oh yeah, it's Black Panther.
That's got to be from something, I don't know what it is.
Oh my God, that is Black Panther.
Jesus Christ.
It's Black Panther.
It's Black Panther.
Look at him with the ears and the nose.
But he's pimp.
It's Black Panther with the ears.
That was a Black Panther.
He's off Black Panther.
That is canon Black Panther.
You know what?
That's why he's half of us.
If that's the comic book Black Panther,
I could get why people were annoyed with the adaption.
Yeah, that's the...
Oh, people are saying Anubis?
Is it Anubis?
What is it from?
No, it's Black Panther.
I'm not seeing Dragon Ball.
Oh, it's Dragon Ball.
Okay.
Yeah, it's from Dragon Ball, but...
I don't know what it does for the actors.
What does Dragon Ball have to do with Black Panther?
Did you not watch the film?
Dragon Ball is in Black Panther.
Yeah, there are magic balls in Black Panther
that do anything you need them to.
Oh, no.
We don't need to do this for this piece.
Or your mitten will do it first.
Oh my god, it's Blackface.
Oh my god.
Wait, that looks like Saitama.
Did he die?
It's Black Panther.
Did he die one for the man?
He died one for the man.
There's three Black Panthers in this already.
Boom.
You mean the moon landing thing?
Okay, wait.
Okay, his microphone.
It's not that it's bad.
He's like, is he too close to it or something?
No, he's got it turned up really high,
so it's picking up loads of interference
and just general white noise.
Yeah, because it sounds like this.
It sounds like he's not got permission
to make videos of his parents,
so he has to do it really quietly later.
It's like when people whisper,
but they're not really whispering.
It's just like the worst ASMR I've ever heard.
Wait, hold up.
It's because it's called a shot.
I do want to go back and see
what Black Panthers say to one another.
Okay.
Oh no.
All right.
This is okay.
It's the narrative, Alex.
What do you say about death metal?
Now, let's see.
Will I just show you in a blink of an eye?
Or your matine will do it first.
That shining is one huge lie.
You mean the moon landing thing?
Okay, I don't really get it, but sure.
I don't get it either,
but now I know what there is for me to not get now.
Now, it's because it's called a shining,
but there are no shiny Pokémon in it.
You're joking, right?
What do I do?
They all laugh at me.
I am really trying to compose myself right now.
I don't want to skip in case
we jump over something that context.
I don't want to skip, but an argument could say.
Everybody's made some cringy skits in their life, right?
Except me because I made a thing to never make skits.
It's like never skip.
This is fantastic.
I'm enjoying it.
It's funny.
All right.
Yeah, I'm fine with it.
I just don't know the point.
I'm not from all this, like there's a film,
so he's already won.
That's true.
I find this more entertaining than the movie.
Yeah, I just want to...
You're not the little thing.
Now, Nomura, I want you to be a nice girl
and get back home at 10 o'clock.
But, uh...
10 o'clock.
I get that joke because Thanos is the dad.
And it's like, you know, like when you,
when you, when your daughter's dating a guy
and you're like, hey.
I don't know that, actually.
It's a common American trope.
I am neither a dad nor a daughter, so...
I hope my son or something.
He's like on the cringy avatar and sober.
How many times do I have to explain
it's supposed to be crap.
It was supposed to be badly drawn.
That's not a skit.
That doesn't count.
Damn it!
This whole podcast explodes.
But wait, wait, wait, wait.
I've actually said that if I was to ever do a dissection again,
that I would get an artist this time around
because people clearly want good drawings.
No, no, don't keep it up.
It's too much.
Do you guys want to see me draw terrible faces?
Isn't it just the best?
Do the weekend warrior thing.
Yeah, yeah.
Be able to pick on him.
What's that about?
Is it because I'm Welsh?
Do people hate the Welsh?
Alex, what is this?
What is this oppression?
Everyone hates the Welsh.
When do you play a wand?
One of the dinosaurs is called Margaret.
It's one of the most unrealistic movies I've seen in my life.
Ow!
You mean how they got all these pop culture icons
of different licenses in one movie?
No, I'm talking about being able to use these VR sets
for more than five minutes.
Whatever one knows, it's physically impossible.
Okay.
I get it.
I sort of get it.
But it's not funny.
I'm just gonna-
Here's the thing about jokes.
Here's the thing about jokes, folks.
Jokes are funny.
Jokes are great if they're funny.
Yeah, the voices have walled off on me now.
I'm not deeply in front of it anymore.
Yeah, if your jokes aren't funny, then God do them.
There's nothing worse than bad comedy.
One thing that I have to ask.
If you're gonna do a response to Nostalgia Critic,
you'd be like,
oh, you might get a couple of people who are interested in this.
This is probably the worst way to introduce new people
to your film review,
because they'll just be like, what?
This feels like a firewall to me.
And he's like, right,
I don't want people to actually watch my video.
Well, you're not open-minded.
You degenerate pizza.
If I bookmark it,
hit him at the front with his bullshit,
then people will just click away.
Yeah, I would pop it at the end, personally,
just so you can sort of throw in,
you know, your thing at the end.
And now the conclusion.
I wonder what the music is.
That's the most fascinating bit about that.
Oh, he's still going.
Oh, no, sorry.
I think this is-
So this is-
I remember seeing this.
So this is like,
the idea is that he is that character with the teeth
and that these guys are recording him making his video.
Okay.
Yeah, I gathered it, yeah.
Oh, I get it.
All right.
I do want to get it.
Bit of stop-mo.
Bit of stop-mo.
Ideally, the camera's in the same place every frame.
You know, joystick box sequels were-
Audio has been adjusted for the comfort of your ears.
Thank you.
That's very kind of you.
Thank you.
Maybe adjust it further, I don't know.
Always seen as bad sequels.
By the public, of course.
The redrassic park fans didn't hate them.
Are those boobs?
Do you just say the real Jurassic Park fans didn't hate it?
Oh, no.
Oh, God, shut down.
Pack it up.
Not a good opening.
Not a good opening.
Keep it over, man.
I just want to make sure.
You know,
Jurassic Park sequels were always seen as bad sequels.
By the public, of course.
The redrassic park fans didn't hate them.
Muthat wasn't.
I love that use of the word real.
That needs to be like stricken from my language.
If I ever make a video, I need to never say real.
The shitty fans are the, they're the credit.
You know, they're the real deal.
They understand the films.
Yeah, you're not a real fan unless you unconditionally
enjoy every entry into the franchise.
Absolutely.
That's how it works.
By the public, of course.
The redrassic park fans didn't hate them.
Muthat was it.
They weren't just bad movies.
That was pretty much it.
That was a kick V.
Yep.
Contrary to...
V's not currently here.
By the public, of course.
The redrassic park fans didn't hate them.
Muthat was it.
They weren't just bad movies.
That was pretty much it.
That was bad movies.
I was watching Jurassic World and I said,
Sarcan, what are you doing?
Oh, if anyone doesn't know V,
this just won't work as a joke, but hey.
Oh my god.
Oh my god.
Need subtitles.
Muthat was it.
They weren't just bad movies.
That was pretty much it.
They're just bad movies.
But then Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom came along and...
Oh my god.
From the horrendously fake and unconvincing dialogue
to the outlandishly terrible character.
Is this the prince from Untangle?
He does look...
He's very aesthetically useful for a Disney film, I'd say.
Yeah.
Is this Aladdin?
Aladdin, I'd go with...
He's pretty charming, obviously.
God.
Decisions and motivation.
Oh fuck.
Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom is not good.
Actually, it's pretty bad.
But there was a clip,
but the guy Shinobi just said that they were bad movies.
A moment ago.
Well, he's already established.
These people are not the real fans.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
He's brand new.
The Jurassic Park died.
Well hey, speaking of rat feces,
do you want to talk more about Jurassic World?
I don't know.
I'm the worst boy ever.
This is so beyond stupid.
Fuck you, film.
Fuck you for not having any faith in your audience's brains.
Hey, it's me.
Couldn't even try to write something better than that.
You cannot tell me that this is a good movie.
You can't.
You fucking can't.
I'm not even a fucking third of the way finished with a damn plot yet
and we're at the point where I was ready to walk out of the fucking theater.
This movie was fucking dreadful.
Surely you must have seen the same movie.
There can't actually be anyone in the world
that watched this utterly retarded nonsense
and actually thought this was unironically well written.
So hey, we got a wolf cameo.
There he is.
All right.
I know he's trying to bring this up, but I'll say it now.
Yes, I saw the latest update for the designer wolf.
Yes, I know he's going through a lot of times.
Yes, he saw the decency to apologize,
but that doesn't change how I see his review.
My critique will remain unchanged.
But then why have this?
He mentioned that in his apology review as well.
The wolf's going through hard times and he deserves support,
but he still stands by that me, Wolf,
and all these other people made bad videos on Fallen Kingdom.
Yeah, that's fine.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that's fine.
What is the deal here?
Did I miss a meeting or something?
Did the entire world wake up when they decided?
Okay, let's say draw support.
The day it released, yeah, it's a conspiracy.
We held a meeting.
I like the idea.
It's like, did I wake up one day?
It's like, well, it was a specific day, the release.
Yeah, specifically the day it was released to the public in theaters.
It's not like it was a beloved movie and then suddenly everyone hated it.
Yeah, 100% critics unanimously loved it.
And then one day I woke up and all fucking hated it.
Let me actually check Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom.
Let's just go run tomatoes through a little aggregate here.
So it looks like on the tomato meter, the average review score from critics
is at 48%. The average rating is a 5.5 out of 10.
And the audience score is 51% liked it.
So it's still better than The Last Jedi.
Which is still better than The Last Jedi.
It's above that.
So, hey, you got that?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Memes aside, they both definitely shit on the entire heritage of their franchises.
But I think this...
Oh, fake fans spotted.
Fake fans spotted.
Whoa, are you leading up to saying that it's Whis and The Last Jedi?
No, I think they are equals.
What would you say is Whis rags Alex out of those two?
I haven't watched all of Jurassic World.
I've seen like four or five reviews, so I feel like I've seen the whole damn thing.
But I would rather watch Jurassic World than The Last Jedi,
because The Last Jedi makes me sad.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
It's a tough call, I admit.
They're both really bad.
Which one's longer?
Definitely Last Jedi.
Last two and a half hours, I don't know.
Yeah, Jurassic World.
I'd rather watch that.
It's way better, because it doesn't waste as much time.
Yes.
Yeah, done.
That's the...
Yeah.
Okay, yeah, we're all in agreement then.
Fine.
For some reason-
Yeah.
Oh, god.
Sorry.
Trash the Jurassic Park movies.
What?
What's the deal?
Did I jump to another dimension while I was asleep?
This just boggles my mind.
I was going to say, like, oh, seriously,
did you not remember that two was like really shit?
This is not new.
Every one of them has been trashed.
Yeah, it was not like the first three were like, you know,
masterpieces, and then like, you know, like, the cycle and got
like a lot of shit for no reason.
It's like, they've been cascading down.
A lot of people shot on Jurassic World 1 when it came out, too.
Like, that film did well, and I think a lot of people did love it.
Including, I think, Mike from Red Light Media really liked it.
I can't remember either him or Jay did.
I wouldn't be surprised if I thought-
I think he liked it in an almost like schlock kind of way.
Yeah.
Because he said he watched it in the theater and he saw,
what's his face on the motorcycle with all the raptors running next to him?
And he said, stole.
I have to see this.
But yeah, you know, I've said it a couple of times,
but I stand by like the only good one is the first one.
The then is, it's complicated just how bad they all are,
but I think Fallen Kingdom is easily the worst.
Like, it's not even like, oh, it's kind of the worst.
Like, no, easily.
It's, there's nothing right with Fallen Kingdom.
Nothing makes sense.
Because after the first one,
you got between two and three that you go debate which one is worse or whatever.
Yeah.
And then the Fallen, well,
Jurassic World 1 and 2,
Fallen Kingdom again, I figured worse.
They're a whole new tier of bad.
Yeah, they really are.
But this man disagrees and he's going to provide possible characters.
The amount of vicious attacks this movie has received,
it sounds pickably idiotic.
We have those who try to sound smart thinking they know what they're talking about.
How do you expect us to care when the promises of these people who sound smart?
I kind of agree.
Shinobi, we might not disagree with this one in fairness.
I agree.
He tries to sound smart.
Maybe he might.
Maybe he fucked up in his right.
Movies are built on such stupid ideas.
Others who are just idiotically nitpicking on everything like.
Also, it has a yellow stripe.
So I got a story connected to this.
Let's play the full context for you folks first.
It's idiotically nitpicking on everything like.
Also, it has a yellow stripe.
How is this an improvement?
So he said idiotic nitpicking.
Do you say idiotic nitpicking?
I may have.
He played the clip as if I'm saying that you take a dinosaur,
then you take another dinosaur and you add a yellow stripe.
How is that an improvement?
That's dumb.
It's like why are you trying to argue that a yellow stripe is an improvement anyway?
So it does kind of look like a nitpick.
So what are you doing more?
But if you go to my video, and I posted this in a comment,
my videos, that section, I say that the indominus raptor is better than the indominus Rex.
They say it's an improvement.
And yet it doesn't have the camo that the first one has,
where it can basically become invisible.
Like it can mix in with any environment and you can't even see it.
It cannot be scanned by thermal scanners.
It's immune to that.
I don't know why, but it is.
It's huge.
And I think that's basically why it's so threatening, obviously, with being super aggressive.
And so this new one is smaller.
It doesn't have those benefits.
And it's aggressive.
And it's tied to that gun with the laser sighting thing.
So it's kind of like, that seems like a downgrade too.
And so I said all those things.
And then I said, oh, and it has a yellow stripe for me trying to tell you
that they are the differences.
And then I said, so how is this an improvement?
Do you understand the context?
I'm trying to stack up all the attributes.
Well, it's quite clearly cherry picking from the fact that the sentence
he's taken from your analysis begins with the word also.
This is the interesting part.
I put a comment there.
And he said when he saw my video, that's not what he heard.
He did.
That's not what he watched it.
He thought that's what I was saying.
He didn't realize what this guy's hearing.
But like when you start to send it like a clip off when you're when you start a clip
off where it says like, in addition to those 17 others, I don't like its face.
And so, yeah, I was like, you're just nitpicking.
And so for someone being like, all these people are idiotically.
Hey, I was like, that's not a good start, mate.
Like the first thing you do is take me out of context.
Like, come on.
And this is the thing.
If I was to rewatch my Jurassic all in Kingdom video again,
I could probably counter a couple of arguments I make.
Like, it's probably not impossible, but don't start with that.
That's not a good good look.
But anyway, I think I think Wolf is the next candidate on this slab.
So here we go.
Boom.
Assholes like.
I'm sure the mental gymnastics required to defend these terrible movies will increase
tenfold for this one.
And believe me, the mental gymnastics are going to have to get a lot better because,
oh, boy, does shit get real soon.
And then we have.
So, yeah, it's just Wolf.
All he's really saying is that people are going to have to really try hard to defend it.
Yeah, you get harder than they've ever tried before.
A normal conversation would be like, why did this guy do this thing?
And you go, oh, because of this scene where he said he would do this and you go, okay.
And then if there's no scene like that, then you go, oh, well, if you've read the book,
then you extrapolate from this scene in the book where he says this and you take it to
over and just like, whoa, your brain is flying all over the place to make an argument.
And that's all that's all Wolf is talking about, I imagine.
But he does call people retarded.
And so you might be able to stand on a moral high ground and say, hey, you can't do that.
But this guy's already said that we're idiots, I believe.
Well, actually, you can't.
That's the thing about being retarded, is that you can't take a moral high ground by
criticizing somebody else for calling somebody else retarded, because then you're agreeing
with him that being it's bad to be retarded.
That's that's that's you don't even need to go to that length.
Right.
God, this guy is like, yeah, I'm calling him retarded.
Are you saying there's something wrong with being retarded?
Is everyone, is everyone pressing F for Wolf?
Wolf is okay.
He's fine.
Yeah, well, it's fine.
He's just it's it's fine.
He's taking a break like this.
Just me.
Damn you, Jay.
Laughing is not right.
It's not not sure what the argument here is.
What's the point he's trying to make here?
That he cut up what is probably a 20 minute review just to have the laughs.
So that's interpret what you can from that.
How to remove all context from a video 101.
Well, I mean, we already know the context will be Mike says something funny and Jay laughs at it.
Oh, no.
They're clearly idiotic.
If you cut up this very stream, you'll you'll be able to have a clip set of us just laughing.
So please don't do that.
That'll that'll betray Efap for what it truly is.
The first one was that in between the it's just like a like a it's not even a bad laugh.
It's funny.
It's like a standard laugh.
Yeah, he's just laughing because Mike's funny.
They're talking about a bad movie.
And we can confirm objectively that Mike's the classer is funny.
That is a yes as an objective fact.
So I'm convinced is the good movie based off of that clip.
I'm convinced that you know, but think of all the joy that it brought to the world.
Also, this clip is suitable at the end of that, but not for the reasons should always using it.
Like, what the fuck was that?
Why did you play a montage?
If it's a bad thing of someone laughing, it's like this weird.
You can't laugh.
Is that actually what you're saying?
Real fans don't laugh.
Oh, no.
Seriously, you can replace every one of these reviews with this.
These movies wanker.
The people who made it a wanker.
And everybody who liked it is a wanker.
Don't forget to wank the sub button and wank the button.
Oh, I've never seen such a straw man.
Pretty big straw man coming from blackface.
It's not a good look.
Well, we'll just say that's a that's a pretty good impersonation of you.
My eyes aren't as white.
If you watch this scene from the perspective of a true Jurassic Park.
Yeah, that's the other thing.
Yeah, like he's bitches about these people.
Oh, well, a few of you hear this.
But he also the real fans or the true fans are the ones who like play with the little dinosaur toys.
And like, you know, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Are you saying that the guy who makes this video plays with toys?
Apparently, apparently wanker isn't bad enough to censor, by the way,
because he's been censoring swear words.
Why would you?
Why would you?
I don't know where you got the information that the guy who made this video
has just like a bunch of toys and action figures.
Fans said me this stuff.
And they're like, you need to respond that I saw that he was actually using clips.
I was like, Oh, so he's making arguments.
He does in part to make some arguments.
But I skipped to the end of this one.
That's the context where he talks about the problem with film criticism on YouTube.
And that's kind of the part I want to get to.
But I didn't realize we had to go through.
This is nice.
So let's just yeah, let's just power through.
This is worse than being a fan of the Transformers movies.
Oh, God.
Wow.
You're not saying that's pretty bad.
I mean, I'm not proud of every fat Bob done.
You're allowed to be a fan of Transformers.
Don't think that's what we're saying.
It's just he's right.
It would be tough to be a fan of the Transformers movies.
That would be a natural phase.
We all go through it.
You know, you know, what's interesting too, is that I've been listening to a lot of
Fallout 76 reviews as I'm kind of putting my own together.
And it's very interesting how many of them almost across the board have the phrase.
It's okay to like it, but it always follows a but.
But generally, if all of these reviews for a product say,
no, it's okay to like it, that's not a good sign.
No, you don't want to start off with that, because then it's like, oh.
But then what what how are you categorizing that?
What things are not okay to like?
Oh, well, that's the logic, right?
Nothing is not okay.
Like, I guess 76 is better than being a pedophile.
Well, he's right.
They are the things that you would say.
Okay, it's not okay.
Yeah.
So it's not in that category.
It's in the other category with everything.
That really narrows it down.
What a brilliant.
This is this is almost philosophical.
How do we quantify what is not is and is not allowed to be liked?
There'll be this a philosophy podcast.
Thank you, Shinobi, for exploring this subject with us.
It's like I'm the one in the world who really liked fallen kingdom.
It's absurd.
No, lots of people liked it.
He said it's absurd.
He might be.
He might be.
Ah, it's Asper's.
He said, it's straw bad.
But then again, I shouldn't be surprised because critics don't like their
original Jurassic Park movie back in the day.
Jurassic Park has a number of peak thrills.
Oh, wait, wait.
Did he say critics didn't like Jurassic Park back in the day?
Yeah.
It was it did correct me if I'm wrong, but it broke records or did it not?
Jurassic Park record.
Jurassic Park review.
It is Roger Ebert gave it a three out of four.
Jurassic World broke a record.
I can't remember if Jurassic Park did.
Well, I guess I'm saying, yes, there would have been people who didn't like Jurassic Park.
I don't think it was disliked as much as willed or willed to.
But either way, both of those are irrelevant anyway.
Critics hated the original.
Here, look, a single video of someone saying something about it.
Let's let's go back to the last Jedi.
Hey, it's OK that people hate the last Jedi because everyone hated Empire Strikes Back
when that came out.
It's like, OK, one, even if that's true.
Who the fuck is this movie, that movie?
Like, it's it's not it's what about it.
What does that even prove?
It's like people dislike good things.
OK, so you know what else is it?
You know what else wasn't popular when it came out?
The Wizard of Oz.
I think it's like Black Plague or something.
Blade Runner Blade Runner.
Yeah, that's true.
Blade Runner wasn't popular at all.
And see, that's the thing.
You could we could just do it for him.
We'd be like, yes, there are things that come out that are good that aren't popular.
That's true.
Then you're talking about things that can develop a cult following over time.
I don't think this mainstream popcorn piece of shit movie is going to build like develop
a cult following.
No, and I don't think people's opinion of it are going to magically change any time
soon or at all.
Yeah, it's not like it's campy or that it's a slice of the times that it was made in
or that it's really memeable or it's saying something very controversial about society.
Yeah, or it's so bad.
It's good.
It just seems to be, from what I've seen, just a bad movie.
Yeah, but, you know, I agree with you, Shinobi, that there are films that are
good that come out that get bad reviews, but that's not what's happening with
Fallen Kingdom.
It is the level of the attacks in Jaws, and it has moments of real wonder.
But when the animals are off screen, the film really lags.
That wasn't true.
If you think about it with Jaws, which had three marvelous characters hunting the shark.
Jurassic Park only has gobloom.
The rest of the crew stands around and smiles.
Sorry.
Gene Sisko, he's not just right no matter what he says.
That's just not the characters in Jurassic Park are strong as fuck.
Yeah, this is borderline argument from authority fallacy.
Well, I mean, he's not saying that Gene Sisko is right.
I guess he's just saying that, look, he's a big guy and he said it.
Yeah, he's pretty.
He's trying to he's leading one in that direction scheme.
Still thumbs up from me.
The action scenes are like a thumbs up.
Critics absolutely hated Jurassic Park when it came out.
Before the action scenes.
And I feel that really this movie, though, is a missed opportunity because what he doesn't
have here and what I really missed from a movie by Spielberg like Close Encounters of the Third
Kind is the sense of awe, the sense of majesty.
These creatures are back and it's amazing.
Okay.
All right.
So you think that Close Encounters of the Third Kind killed filled you with a sense of awe and
majesty, but Jurassic Park didn't.
I was going to say that quite an orish wish.
And yeah, the correct term here is awesome film.
So it's it's it's full of well, it's got lots of or in it.
Well, it's full of awe inspiring, awful.
It's full of all full of awful means.
That's true.
Right away, after an opening shot that has a little of that.
Yes, it does.
A little of that.
In the opening shot, though, I'm like, but the philosophy wrapped in a cage.
Yeah.
Like, well, is that is that all because to me, always more like when they see the brachiosaurus
for the first time.
Yeah, yeah, because the opening shot, I don't know if he's on that specifically,
but the opening shot is just the philosophy wrapped up.
It's more like a horror film then.
Yeah, that's more horror.
Hey, you're not going to you're not going to fucking bullet from that.
You fucking shit your pants like well, maybe the first time anyway.
And you know, when the T-Rex like bursts out of its cage, as much as that's scary,
it's also like, holy shit.
Look at that.
You know, like, but, you know, again, this is all if he didn't feel it, he didn't feel it.
And I thought I could get Roger Ebert.
We've evolved as critics.
Yeah, you know, fine.
It's just the he's saying he's referencing scenes in which that would be felt.
And I think there's more than just that, but, you know, yeah,
integrates basically into a monster picture where the dinosaurs are.
They are monsters.
I mean, they do.
They want to eat you.
Maybe he wanted a movie where it was just safe and they just go around
seeing the dinosaurs and it's nice.
No, Godzilla clearly.
You know about the fact that they're eating in Godzilla, right?
Oh, no, they're not.
I don't know if they're eaten.
They definitely get attacked.
No, they don't get eaten.
But they are.
Them two are like have people.
They're parodied.
Tend to be them.
Parodied.
Yeah.
I was going to say cabbie.
I was like, no, that's the wrong thing.
Anyway.
Anyway, based on the promotional material, I was expecting a wistful rom-com.
But little did I know it was a fucking monster movie.
I'm trying to like be as as benefit as kind with benefit of the doubt as possible here.
I'm trying to think of what movie you wanted because it's how far into Jurassic Park is it
when the dinosaurs actually break free?
Is it halfway through?
There's a there's a bit of a set up.
First one.
Yeah, yeah, because they do it's not because they do remember the bit
where they're in the field with all of the like the flock of whatever they are
dinosaurs and like Sam Neill's characters just blown away by it.
I wish they went for kind of like, you know, way back a dinosaur story kind of tone.
What did you say? Sorry.
Way back a dinosaur story.
Oh, right.
It's got John Goodman in it.
Oh, I'm Jay Leno.
Yeah, you see that cow?
I haven't seen it.
Oh, bloody hell.
It's a gap in my history.
No.
Yeah, you know, Jurassic World fan or Jurassic Park fan.
You don't see we're back.
Oh, yeah, they go.
Gallimimus.
That's the ones that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this the start of Jurassic Park is is kind of slow, I guess, but they're building character,
which is quite important, I think, because whenever it was getting chased by like flesh
eating dinosaurs, you kind of need to give a shit.
Hey, I'll sorry to drop, but have you seen Theodore Rex?
Oh, my God.
That's the true Jurassic movie.
That's the real.
It's a real sequel.
You're not a real fan if you haven't seen that.
That shit is that shit is lit to say the least.
Yeah, that's a thing.
Oh, actually, I'll go.
Um, Ashby, I thought I kind of interrupted you.
I was just going to say, I was just being a dick about them actually doing some character
building in the original movie.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, but it's boring.
Yeah.
Not a real fat if you like the way that doesn't work.
More dinosaurs, more monsters, more blood.
Yeah.
Did you want to say something, Alex?
Or are we carrying on?
Okay.
Finding a way and there's lots of action and lots of screaming, but there's no not really
any opportunity to really give these creatures their due.
It's almost like the movie doesn't have any respect for the intelligence of the audience
that they might.
Oh, come on.
What?
Come on.
What?
What?
Since that.
I respectfully disagree.
Character development.
No, no.
The smart people want to see dinosaurs.
Um, yeah, I wanted my blockbuster movie to be more of a documentary.
Like, well, yeah, you go walking with dinosaurs.
Go watch that.
You'll be right.
There's lots of oil in that.
Go watch, uh, the other dinosaur movie.
Um, so what, like the Disney one, the animated one.
It's just called dinosaur.
Yeah.
With a month, like 1990.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Yeah.
You're the fucking meteor and shit.
With the fucking media and the monkeys.
I like that.
Shit.
Bring back to media and dressing whales.
Well, they got the volcano.
You're right.
Really be interested in dinosaurs instead of just in the action.
We could have, we could have used more scenes.
You're right.
Of, of on and that's, well, I think you're just right.
So if this was being said by a critic right now, like to me, I'd just be like,
where in the, what, how would you change the film?
You get those scenes in, where would you put them and what would they be of?
I like wouldn't mind some more specifics because it seems very
just like, yeah, I want more of this.
Like, okay.
Can't really do anything with that.
But, you know, fair enough.
It's just a generalization.
It's not this, you need to be way more specific.
Yeah.
If anything, these, these review like the one at the bottom.
Yeah.
There's no poetry, little sense of wonder, no resonant subtext.
Jungian or otherwise, or the fuck that means no art.
When it's over, it's gone extinct.
And now here we are in 2018 fondly talking about how amazing
the first classic part of the movie is.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I can see him now for you being wrong.
Not everyone can see the future and you missed this one.
You missed that.
Hold on though.
Even if people hated the first one and then they said the first
one's good compared to this one, that would still be valid.
Like that's still consistent.
If they're saying, let's say the first one is a three out of 10.
This one's a one out of 10.
Then that's what they would say.
Yeah.
But I mean, I'd be hard pressed to find somebody who thinks the
first Jurassic Park is like dog shit.
Like I don't know anybody who hates it that much.
I think that'd be tough.
There's going to be somebody.
Jay Scott gave it 25.
Well, we should have Jay on the podcast.
Jay Scott, if you're still alive and you're watching this.
He's a Toronto.
We want to talk about your review from fucking 1993.
Uninteresting characters, all action and no wonder,
insults the audience and tells you.
This is not relevant to Fallen Kingdom, even if it's true.
Four average reviews of the original 75, 75, 70, 70.
I mean, those are decent.
Yeah.
And even still is like, what about all the good reviews?
How many of them are there?
And I mean, this doesn't matter anyway.
The reviews that it got at the time don't mean it's good or bad.
Yeah.
Could we get to the argument?
Magenta.
And man, we have to get a 99 or something.
It's almost the same thing everybody says about Fallen Kingdom.
No way for Christian science monitor have save up dinosaurs.
Wait, what was what was ironic?
Yeah.
He said the audience intelligence and merely a monster movie.
It's almost the same thing everybody says about Fallen Kingdom.
Roger was not alive for Fallen Kingdom, right?
From his website.
Maybe that might be it.
These are these are for the first movie.
These are from Jurassic Park.
But he's saying that it's the same thing for Fallen Kingdom is what you just said.
Maybe saying these reviews are similar to the ones.
Okay, I'm not 100% sure.
I'm happy to just skip over some confused.
How ironic to further prove the absurdity of the situation.
One of the complaints about this movie that I wasn't aware of
until it was brought to my attention is the lack of dance or accuracy.
Yeah, it depends, doesn't it?
Yeah, if the dinosaurs could fly, it might, you know, distract you a bit.
Like if the T-Rex just zooms off,
that would be an example of the accuracy getting in your way, would it not?
Yeah, with with what we know about dinosaurs today,
compared with what they knew about dinosaurs, especially 1993.
You know, we know that they were like a lot of them were covered in feathers
and they were warm blooded and all sorts of stuff like this.
I wasn't aware that dinosaurs had skin that prevented lava from affecting them,
because there's one that gets splashed by it in the film and he's fine.
That part just confused me.
No, it's not the dinosaurs.
It's just that you see lava back in the day.
It wasn't as intense as it is now because the future is based in 2018.
Well, millions of years ago, there was more oxygen in the air.
It would burn out quicker as it flew through the air.
So it'd be cooler when it finally reached you.
But so you need to factor in that lava is obviously going to evolve over time
and probably become more ferocious now or less ferocious.
Well, it would necessarily become more ferocious.
It would adapt to fit its environment.
And we don't like lava, so it would adapt to become more friendly.
Yeah.
So you walk up to lava and it would be like, how is your day?
That sort of he hasn't taken this argument into account at all.
So it would survive in our climate.
Because a few extra chromosomes and then bang,
it's like a much friendly version of lava.
And this is the specific argument that destroys this.
If you remember in Star Wars, lava did not kill Anakin.
So it's not that bad.
And that was based a long, long time ago.
So imagine how useless lava is today.
So it was that useless back then.
No, lava has got half life.
Exactly.
But yeah, just one serious comment.
He said, like, to prove how ridiculous it is,
people are saying that, but it's like, is this review saying
the movie is bad because of this or is it just pointing out inaccuracies?
Because all we got here is they asked an expert because it's topical.
Yeah.
They said we asked an expert and they said it's not very realistic,
especially the T-Rex because it wasn't apparently angry.
Is that all?
Yes.
This was a major complaint among men.
Hey, guys, I'm Moose.
And as much as I'd like to love to fully feathered dinosaurs
pecking the prey to death, seems like Jurassic World Fallen
Kingdom has chosen entertainment instead of accuracy.
I'm assuming that's what it says now.
These were all the smart scientists on the planet.
Only problem is being wrong.
That seems fine to me.
He's not said the film is terrible as a result.
I don't even care if it's accurate or not.
This is a little shit film.
That's not even that funny thing.
That's not the bone that people are picking on with it.
Yeah.
I've never seen in any of the reviews, they were like,
oh, the dinosaurs should be a little bit different shaped
and they should be more brownish and they should have feathers.
Like Roger Ebert and that could be fucking involved.
Oh, by the way, dinosaurs are extinct.
So it's kind of in certain intelligence pretending that they're real.
They do have a throwaway line in the first film.
I don't know if you guys remember, but they say something like,
I've been working on changing the DNA vulva.
I even made it so they're less accurate to how they should look
just to make them look more scary or whatever.
They have a throwaway line to account for the fact
that they're not aesthetically the way they should be.
From what I remember.
Well, yes, because they have to fill in the gap of the DNA
with female frogs or whatever, don't they?
So it's not going to be a 100%.
Well, they're saying they deliberately changed it themselves
so that it wouldn't have feathers.
Or at least I get that from the dialogue.
I'd have to look at it again.
It was actually the first one to explain the velociraptor.
I can't remember.
But then the velociraptor in the first one had some feathers just on their heads.
They did.
And I have a feeling that that was them being like,
let's course correct and try and bring it in.
And then this film was like, nah.
You might not have to, because you could use the whole thing of,
remember the point of the original is that they started breeding
because they used frog DNA and frogs can kind of change their sex.
And so they looked a little bit more like lizard-like.
Yeah, like the frog DNA.
Yeah.
So they didn't have feathers.
They had like scales and stuff.
Not the frogs do, but you could like pass it all
because it's kind of like, oh, okay.
They're kind of like hybrids.
Yeah, as much as I would like to agree with the person,
with him saying, come on, accuracy to dinosaurs shouldn't be why the movie's bad.
I don't even know this guy's argument that we're looking at, you know.
So far, he's only said, it seems to me,
this article is designed to tell you what's inaccurate about the dinosaurs and that's it.
Yeah.
Which is fine.
Many people about this movie.
And I'm like, where were you for the past 25 years or so?
That guy might have actually done an article on the first film, too.
He might not have been old enough.
It's a common thing to discuss the inaccuracies of Jurassic Park's dinosaurs.
That's a thing.
People have done it.
That's not new for this film.
And besides, I don't think I even mentioned that in my video, nor did the wolf from memory
because it's not really a contentious issue from what I remember, but hey.
The dinosaurs in these movies were never accurate.
Hell, you could say they were inaccurate the moment Michael Crachton chose to name
the dinosaurs Velociraptor instead of Deinonychus just because it sounded cooler and catchier.
Yes.
I don't disagree.
Yeah, it's fine.
These are actually Deinonychus, which made things a bit complicated when they decided
to include actual Deinonychus to the front.
Hey, I think that's from Jurassic World Evolution, the game.
High five.
Yes, I agree.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
What?
Did people forget the highly inaccurate dollophosaurs from the first movie?
I guess because that became so ingrained in pop culture, it became acceptable.
Sure.
Yeah, again.
No, because there were inaccuracies in the past.
It's just a free pass now.
Yeah, no inaccuracies will ever matter again.
Okay, cool.
I mean, this guy's name is Shinobi.
Shinobi is Japanese for ninja, and that's not what ninjas wore.
It's true.
And I don't remember ninjas-
In his earlier videos, he made some pretty wild inaccuracies some earlier.
So you can't criticize these ones.
Yeah, and I'm fine with you.
I remember when gravity came out and there was a bunch of people talking about,
here's how space works.
Now that everybody's interested in space and gravity and orbiting and satellites,
now's a good chance to teach people about it because it's currently kind of topical.
You're doing that with Jurassic World now.
I thought you were saying when the law of gravity came out, as if we were all-
Yeah, I was so glad that they invented it.
I didn't know how to get the word before that.
John gravity made it.
Do you guys remember gravity, like a version one?
It was just a fucking nightmare.
Everything stuck to the ground.
People were like clipping through balls.
Things were multiplying.
It was just a fucking-
That thing needed a beta.
Yeah, nobody can fly anymore is bullshit.
But Rax, please confirm this.
Did it run better than Fallout 76?
But yeah, you're right.
If they release something this specific and interesting,
some people might be like, hey, I want to look into that.
And again, it definitely happened with Jurassic Park.
I remember conversations about Jurassic Park being like,
so are the dinosaurs even accurate though?
And it was a contention because it was like the movie's so fucking good.
It's like you have the dinosaurs aren't even accurate.
And you go, what?
Because I wasn't old enough.
None of us were old enough to remember the contemporary discussions about the film.
It came out in 93.
But there was the third one and the second one and the third one came out.
And we were around for those.
And they were like, what are they called?
McDonald's Happy Meals.
And they would have stuff like that.
It would be on posters and things.
It was like, I remember when Pokemon 2000 came out.
When Bugs Life came out.
And people were like, can bugs really talk?
Come on.
People get on their knees going right up next to Asco.
Can you hear me, Jerry?
Tell me if there's any grasshoppers they'll buy, I'll save you.
But really, after all this time, now does everybody decide to point that out in the fifth movie nonetheless?
Did anyone get a sound here?
Isn't that like if Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was my first Harry Potter movie and
complained that none of the characters wear witch hats?
Yeah, no, that's a fake criticism.
They should be wearing, some of them wear witch hats, right?
They do, they do.
Yeah, but it's more, it's formal where Harry Potter,
don't talk about Harry Potter, fuck off.
Yeah, that's kind of stereotypical for wizardry, Bigot.
Also, I think that's a bit weird to consider it, it's like citing, citing genuine history
from fossils versus the accuracy of wizards and witches.
So you're talking about something that was a choice of the characters in the movie
and something that wasn't.
It's clothing, it's not biology.
Don't you hate it when you see a Mexican character in a film and they're not wearing a sombrero?
That is so inaccurate.
Doesn't that piss you off?
Totally inaccurate.
Absolutely ridiculous.
I saw an Irish guy in a show once and he was sober.
Absolutely ridiculous.
Inaccurate.
I mean, your complaint actually has more precedent because this is literally a choice of clothing.
That's not, that's weird.
Yeah, it's not his, it's not O'Malley's fault.
He's an alcoholic.
He didn't choose that.
He didn't choose it.
He was born that way.
I really hope he's got better stuff while he wears his clothes.
Yeah, I think, I think we get into the good stuff.
That's my suggestion.
And since I'm like the only one paying attention,
here are a couple of reminders regarding the creatures of this franchise.
Okay.
Dinosaurs lived 65 million years ago.
What is left of them is fossilized in the rock.
I'm gonna have to pause everyone so I don't make sure we don't get
strikes because otherwise the stream goes down forever.
And it is in the rock that real scientists make real discoveries.
Also, by the way, doing this with the video doesn't actually change anything.
The bots will discover it either way.
I don't know if he's doing it as a sort of style choice to be like,
now we're watching clips, but you may as well just make a full screen.
It doesn't do anything.
John Hammond, an engine did a Jurassic Park,
is create genetically engineered theme park.
Yeah, the film, the film fucking acknowledges this.
Yeah, let's move on.
If he's actually arguing that it makes sense that they're inaccurate,
then why did he have all that shit in the beginning about
how they've been inaccurate the whole time?
Like, why don't you just move on to say that's a part of the film's narrative.
So never mind.
By the way, if you are looking for a good book,
the Jurassic Park novel is quite good.
Oh, and yeah, on top of everything else,
I don't know the arguments for the inaccuracies for the dinosaurs in Fallen Kingdom.
I'd be interested.
I don't know what they are.
I'd have to go find them.
How come this Asian guy doesn't have chopsticks?
See, that's the same as a wizard in his wand.
It's basically the same.
So stupid.
Oh, maybe I could find us all for you now.
Thing in Jurassic World is-
Wow, Rags, you say that when this character's on screen.
That's fucked up.
What? Who?
Oh, sorry. It didn't refresh for me.
You're a racialist, so.
No, I was talking about Sam Neill.
Are we talking-
Oh, it just caught up to me.
I see. I see how that could be.
Any excuse.
Natural.
I was talking about white neill.
We have always filled gaps in the genome with the DNA of other animals.
And if their genetic code was pure-
Yeah, this is the thing I was talking about.
He says we've changed them to make them more within line of what the producers want.
Of the park, I mean.
Many of them would look quite different,
but you didn't ask for reality.
You asked for more tea.
I never asked for a monster.
Are you from Ireland?
I never asked for a monster.
There's still a limit, though.
Like I said, if the T-Rex had wings and flew away, we would be like, what the fuck?
Yeah, it's like at this point, we're just talking about-
I don't know.
Well, that's the thing.
I don't know what we're talking about because he didn't.
He hasn't shown the argument.
He's just responded to it.
And again, I'm just like, okay.
Monster is a relative term.
To a canary, a cat is a monster.
Cats are monsters.
Okay, so I hate when films do this.
It's like, obviously, this is from the point of view of human beings
because we're both humans talking about this in human civilization.
Yeah, I know.
He's just being pathetic.
He's like, well, when you are going to get certain people, they're not human.
So certain people don't regard it as human, anyway.
Oxygen is a monster.
It goes in and does stuff and comes out.
And every person it does that to ends up dead.
So, you know, I don't see that.
That's why you kill a Quentin would talk about how you shouldn't humanize Jews.
A specific Jew, not all of them.
God, you just, that's what you do, Rags.
You straw man.
That's how you go after these innocent cherubs like Quentin Winton.
Imagine if suddenly Robert has brought feathers in this movie.
How would the audience react to that?
It's pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, there's a certain charm to be had with realistic depictions.
So I think genuinely this is just a random take.
But like, I think it'd be pretty cool to see it as a sort of, maybe not a reboot,
but being like, oh, they've got a whole new set of ones
based on the fact that they have feral feathers.
Yeah, they literally described as an update and just come with it.
And they could look like more like monsters from Monster Hunter.
I don't care this far.
That's not the point.
I don't think that's the point now.
It's not the hell that people die on to argue about this film.
Yeah, this whole rant on this whole thing that he's doing is a spiel that nobody cares about
because nobody I've never seen anybody make the argument that this movie's bad
because the dinosaurs aren't fluffy.
Yeah, I've not come across that one.
I'm sure there's like a probably a niche YouTuber channel out there
like who talks about the dinosaur films and talks about the inaccuracies.
But like, that's also like, you know, more people who like to like, like delve into it,
like properly, but this is this is not the argument if you lay out in front of you
and then kind of thought, yeah, I can probably argue this one
and then just chose to focus on this one bullshit thing that no one cares about.
Oh, wait, it happened with the Raptors in Jurassic Park three.
I never want to call them ugly and question the continuity error.
It's me.
People.
Did they?
Did they?
I don't know.
Yeah, everyone.
Everyone did.
Everyone.
I mean, I'm not I'm not expecting them to show like five clips of everyone like saying that,
but then then Jurassic World or Jurassic Park three wasn't it didn't come out when YouTuber
or critic reviews or whatever was a thing, really, was it?
I don't think so.
Yeah.
No, it's not going to be something that like has lots of people covering it now, I guess.
But obviously, there's like in the start of people or whatever, but whatever.
Jurassic Park three came out in 2001.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's old for YouTube anyway.
Well, yeah, yeah, definitely.
YouTube's two thousand.
Is it four and four?
Yeah, it wasn't even a YouTube thing.
Yeah.
So yeah, like, yeah, fuck it.
Whatever.
He's cool.
He's clearly talking about traditional reviewers out traditional.
I know.
I know.
But like, that's a meme I'm talking about.
I'm not sure if you're aware of it.
Oh, sorry.
Patrick Willems said the only people he likes are traditional reviewers.
Oh, that's that's that's some that's an actual level.
That's yeah.
To give you a bit more of a laugh.
You know, he cited as an example of a YouTube one.
It's Mark Brown with it.
Movie Bob.
Oh, fuck off.
Yeah, he did that, didn't he?
I thought it was going to be like some pretension behind another fucking like joke.
Oh, not a meme human.
You're watching a movie, not a documentary.
Even documentaries don't get everything right about them.
I agree.
You know, a lot of my a lot of my books have been about
sort of science gone wrong.
Oh, it's Michael Crichton.
Cool.
And I'm always surprised that anybody takes it seriously when Jurassic Park came out.
Wait, what?
I'm assuming he talks about the specific science because taking his story seriously is
isn't that the point?
Obviously, he wants us to take the story seriously because it has a point in a message.
But I would be curious what the question is that he's responding to.
Yeah, that'd be interesting.
There was a there was a congressman who was going to introduce legislation
banning any any research.
And here we are in 2018.
And that's like a legit thing we might be able to do soon.
What now?
Like, like to find DNA and to reconstruct creatures from it will probably be possible
pretty soon.
Like, that's the thing that happens a lot of the times when ideas first come out,
they're ridiculous and stupid.
But then time goes on.
And then all of a sudden, you know, who would have thought that we would have been able to
clone sheep and have thought controlled prosthetics and things like that.
But I mean, that it's a serious thing.
And the I mean, it's a little messy when you think about it.
But eventually, how are you going to do things like legislate the creation of,
you know, creatures like this?
And how is the public going to, you know, treat it in terms of being a moral or ethical issues?
Everyone's treating that as a we'll cross that bridge where we come to it with a
stressed face is like you're going to be able to genetically engineer whatever
children you want soon.
And these are questions we're going to have to tackle.
Oh, you know, I don't mean to go on a tangent.
But I mean, I'm sure people are okay with that right now, considering the podcast and
this.
But when I worked in a tech support company as a friend of mine, I had I was talking to
about what you just brought up because I remember there's a news article that was
saying about progress to it.
And I said, no, he said, I would never use that.
And I was like, you wouldn't use like, no, a child, a child is supposed to be born of
naturally not supposed to change them until they're what you consider perfect.
And then I said to him, what if the doctor says that age 50, he's gonna get some kind
of debility into like, just say Parkinson's, and that we can stop that we can take it out.
And he said, well, of course.
I was like, okay, that's a very natural.
Yeah, I was like, okay, so what about you find out that he's going to have degenerative
muscles?
He's not too bad.
He's gonna be a little bit weaker than most people or something like that.
And that he can boost it to better than natural.
He can make it so that they're very strong naturally.
And he was like, well, and I was like, what about if they just slow in the head?
If they know that they're going to be of lower intelligence, they actually have an IQ
sort of way to guess it, would you rather push that as high as it could be?
Or would you rather leave it low?
I was like, you can't and he was like selecting what he wants.
And I was like, these questions, you'll get to the point where you do craft the perfect
human because why wouldn't you?
You'd want to give them everything they can get.
It's just a child like that.
Do they like the last Jedi?
What do you do then?
We can edit that out genetically.
It's okay.
Well, I had a discussion about like AI and things is like, if you made an AI,
would it be ethical to give it a sense of pain?
But what would the purpose be of doing that?
Oh, well, some people like that.
Get off on it.
I mean, if you had the offer to lose your sense of pain, I would say don't lose it.
It's really important.
Like to be able to detect when you're fucking damaged.
So, you know, detect when you're damaged without it being pain.
Well, if you have a substitute for that, sure, I need to hear arguments for people.
You're getting too deep into it.
Like what is pain?
Pain is basically just a signal from, you know, your nervous system telling your brain that
you're being damaged.
So what's the difference between humans and an AI receiving a message saying you are being damaged
or because a message because a message that says you've been you've been damaged in pain
are not the same thing.
But that's just down to the way
to carry on.
Yeah, I was gonna say we were actually would be able to talk about this for hours,
because it's, it's actually very interesting.
So let's talk about things that are not as interesting.
Yeah, I held my breath,
hoping to see this happen.
But apparently somebody whispered in the guy's ear that it was just a movie, you know, it was.
If you're that picky about it, then perhaps you should start petition Disney to give
Rafiki a shorter tail to make him an accurate looking manual or petition Hollywood.
I don't know why he stayed on this point so long, because there's a lot.
If only he had a clip of some crazy guy being like,
everything needs to be 100% accurate.
All these films are awful.
And then he plays all this.
I'd be like, okay, well, I know he's going to do it later, apparently.
But you could you could just like gone straight into what other actual YouTubers have said.
In this video, I would be like this, this reviewer said, play clip of reviewers saying
aforementioned thing, and then I would respond to it.
You know, because if I want if I listened to a bunch of reviews,
then I wouldn't bring up something that I never heard.
It's I'm just probably thinking about it.
I don't know how many minutes we've been on this subject, but this is quite a bit.
I like to make all space scenes to be dead silence like this.
This is where the fun begins at the past between us.
That's not dead silence.
You can hear shit.
Not only that, but is he actually advocating the silence in space is bad,
because there's so many space movies that do it.
And it's awesome.
Yeah, I like it.
I like it.
And this is the thing you'd be like, so you want it to be silent in Star Wars.
And I'd be like, well, no, Star Wars is its own.
I'm not saying it.
God damn it.
It's fine.
It's not going to make or break a movie, but it's cool when you see,
you know, space being silent.
You're like, hey, that's how it is in real the real life.
We're like, yeah, it's cool.
That's what it would be if this happened real in the reels helps me connect.
I'm going to go help them out.
No, they're not doing that job.
Clean this clip a lot.
That's not that he's actually advocating for how he's like, yeah,
you could have an amazing soundtrack to match this mo these moments.
And it could be impactful.
This is confusing.
And you can have the music soundtrack still playing.
Just not have any sound effects in space.
Yeah.
And it's like, I hate to say it like audio there.
So because I don't like interstellar, but the the lack of sound in a lot of the
action packed space scenes make it very impactful.
I don't know what what's going to do with the dinosaurs being good.
He's saying if you want everything to be super accurate,
then take sound out of space fights in Star Wars.
Okay, that's not even specifically a bad thing.
Videos like this need to like have a like my CD train needs to dispense a road map
for the video that I'm watching that I can just spread out on my desk.
First 15 minutes talks about whether or not dinosaur should have feathers.
We're like, okay, we could skip that.
He took an exit on Star Wars.
And now we're at Anakin giving a shit about random troopers.
Now we're over here.
Missiles pull up.
That wasn't
Why is he still going?
I get it.
I get it.
Keep going.
Keep going.
He said it's not even like I'm honest.
It's not even that bad.
It's kind of interesting how it's padding.
Well, the only distracting thing is the soundtrack keeps cutting in and out, which is wrong.
It wouldn't be like that if they did in a movie.
But to go into the cockpit and be like, you know, hear button presses and noises in terms
of voices and stuff and then cut back out to outside where it's just dead silent.
That could be interesting, especially in a horror movie, by the way.
Come on.
It's one thing if a movie was actually bad.
It's another thing when it's heavily misunderstood.
Tell me if you've been through this situation for at least once in your life.
Movies with a girl.
You go to watch a new movie you've been interested in for a long time.
Okay.
And you've been patiently waiting for it.
Yeah.
You go.
You're having a good time.
And you think it was one of the best things you've seen in your life.
Yeah.
I'm sure all four of us have a reference for that.
We see him film and we say that was good.
But then you talk about it with other people.
You get shocked by hearing how
nobody liked it as if you saw an entirely different movie.
Have you guys watched anything that everybody hated that you really liked?
Yeah.
Mother.
I thoroughly enjoyed that film.
And when it finished up, the credits were rolling and pretty much everyone else got up
and were audibly annoyed.
Some girl went, well, that was fucking shit.
Well, that was a fucking waste of time.
And they all just started like walking out.
And I was just sat there, like, just let it wash over me.
And I was like, I really fucking enjoyed that film.
And I don't give a shit what other people think.
Like, I enjoyed it.
So I'm not gonna like, but yeah.
This goes back to something we say constantly.
There's a difference between you liking it and how good it is.
Yeah.
I feel like that's what we're about to delve into, isn't it?
He's going to talk about.
I think so.
We think he might just start talking about another completely random tangent.
What I was going to lead into was if I watched a movie that I thought was amazing,
and then I come out of it and I go, hey, hey, hey, Alex, Ash, Rags, Wolf, everyone.
What do you think?
And you all go, it's fucking terrible.
I'd be like, okay, why, though?
I don't immediately go, oh, man, they just don't let me have my opinion.
No, no, it's that we don't understand.
Oh, yes.
That's funny speaking here is that we don't understand why it's good.
That just lacks self-awareness, doesn't it?
It's like, maybe.
I'm sorry, but there's only five feathers.
I can't believe it.
Yeah, it was fucking ridiculous.
The T-Rex was angrier than you should have been to.
They were insulting my intelligence.
Who said intelligence?
That guy back there seems really out of place.
Yeah, he's the one who tags along like, could I come, guys?
He's the male feminist ally.
He's looking for his moment to strike.
Oh, male feminist.
That's like the best superhero name.
I'm just saying one of those gals is getting raped is all I'm saying.
And you don't understand why nobody else liked it as much as you did.
Those who saw the movie on their own are one issue.
The bigger issue are those who either never saw it.
Why did you blur their name?
Thanks, CinemaSins.
Never was going to see the movie.
Keep up the kick ass content.
Ooh, we're delving into it now.
Yeah, blur the name, but show their face.
I mean, yeah, you may as well blur the icon.
That's Rick Grimes.
He logged into the YouTube and he made that comment.
This is absolutely not what I thought the movie was going to be about.
Trippy.
Not one I'd watch.
So this is going to be like how movie reviewers will stop people from enjoying stuff.
But they already said their opinion before they take their seats,
because they saw the reviews before they get to watch the movie
and they watched it from start to finish.
Under that one mindset, like it's predetermined.
No, you're really achieving far too much.
Oh, absolutely.
Well, there will be someone on this planet who said,
I'm going to go and see The Last Jedi, watched my series and went,
I am now not going to see it because it's bad.
And this guy could be like, wow, that's fucked up because The Last Jedi is good.
And then I'd be like, but it's not.
And then that could be talked about.
But that's not even like, like out of all the people who've ever watched my videos
or CinemaSins or whoever else.
Like there's it's going to be all over the shop.
They'll have you'll have people who say, I'm not going to watch The Last Jedi.
They watch Major Lee's video and then they go, I'm going to watch it.
And then they watch it and they go, wow, that was a waste of money.
So what about them?
Are you going to criticize them to those people who do positive reviews?
Like, for example, we're positively reviewing Fallen Kingdom
and tricking people into the money to see that.
What about that?
Perform their own opinion and just repeat what everybody says.
They spread.
Also, there is a difference between absorbing a reviewer's opinion
and making it your own and looking to them for advice on what films to see.
Or keeping it in mind and remembering their critique.
Not everybody's a millionaire.
And so they have to spend their money wisely when they go see films.
And if, say, for example, they tend to agree with with meal rags
or whoever else on our film taste and we say, yeah, go see X, don't go see Y,
then they'll be like, all right, I'll go see X.
And that's nothing wrong with that.
I think it's all context.
So, you know, their false ideas among even more comedy review channel
that points out flaws in all good movies, good and bad.
This is the exact same thing done by the point it becomes the normal line of thinking.
And anybody who says a different opinion is marked as the odd one.
I was going to say, because the one these comments represent
the millions of people who go watch these films.
It seems like a very narrow viewpoint right now.
Says a different opinion is marked as the odd one.
And with those who spray this movie sucks, it's too long.
There's no action.
I simply do not care what the characters are doing.
Everyone in the show is replaceable.
We don't watch home videos with mom anymore.
Wow, because she did like the film, you can't watch it with her anymore.
That's the exact same thing in reverse.
You're like, you don't let people with opinions are different than yours.
So Shinobi here is that dude looking quite upset.
And we are all the alcoholic mother.
I think that's for the alcoholic mother.
This guy is these two.
I don't know.
She's drinking.
What is that?
Right.
These ideas are seen as horrible review.
Oops.
Sorry.
The odd one.
And with those who spread these ideas are seen as gospel reviewers
because they have over a million subs with millions.
I don't don't don't put us on the same level.
Gospel review.
Well, like people let my free channel videos are right.
So fucking how many people have you heard say
cinema sins is bullshit versus cinema sins is right about everything.
I I've never heard anyone actually say cinema sins is right about everything.
Yeah, but I have.
I hear a lot of people saying that people treat him like he's right about everything.
But that's unfortunate for them to him.
Oh, I'm sure like I've mentioned this to you before as well,
kind of with a friend who used to watch every video by Yahtzee.
And then like would then like pretend that like he knows all about said
games that Yahtzee covered, even though he didn't own any of the current
gen consoles except a Wii at the time.
And he'd be like, all right.
Yeah.
How do you know that you only you have no accessibility to play this game?
But you've already made your opinion up.
I get I get where he's going.
Like those kind of people are annoying.
But it's like, what, why, why should I fight with these?
Someone said the context for this joke is the it's a they're watching a family video.
As in the these are the people in the video.
We don't we don't watch home videos.
We don't watch home videos with mom.
I get it now.
Oh, I see that changes it.
How?
Yeah, but then she's just an asshole.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The mom saying everybody in the family is replaceable.
She's drunk.
He's like, all right.
Yeah, that makes more sense.
Actually, this thinking about it.
This is just a comic about a troubled mother who needs help.
Yeah, really.
This is about familial strife.
And that kind of has to do with dinosaurs.
Yeah, I'm really struggling to find the connection.
This is just a little dinosaur in the background.
And it's like, there you go.
That's right.
I hope you get to someone's.
The punch line is that she's actually going through a lot of strife and that we need to
be very serious with the punch line is that dad's going to punch her.
She could punch him.
Look at it.
She's she's she's clearly clocked a few balls already.
Yeah, I know.
She's got that bottle can be used in videos a day.
They think they have the monopoly of the truth and they never get things wrong.
And therefore, if you find somebody who says they have the monopoly on the truth and never
get things wrong, then they bullshit.
Who the fuck says that?
Well, he has to count a monopoly, didn't he?
Because he has the real truth.
Denise.
Well, yeah, you're right.
He has the monopoly on who is saying they have the monopoly on truth.
But he's the real the Jurassic Park fan, man.
So the only one single Jurassic Park will come one day in the whole world that turned
against him.
Oh, geez.
One day he said to us, I wear this Jurassic Park t-shirt and he got pelted with stones
and knives and everything.
He got pelted with that.
They threw their knives at him.
I thought everybody loved the Jurassic Park races.
Hey, I was just doing an impression.
I don't know what race this guy is.
Have you heard?
You're not allowed to do that now.
Appu is is the petitioning Appu to be removed from Simpsons for that.
Oh, OK.
Even though did I not do a good impression?
No, it's just racist.
It's just it's cultural appropriation.
That's not your accent.
You can't take it.
Yeah.
Even though the accent I'm using is not local to my area, but it's fine because people don't
know about.
No, it's not as it but.
No, you don't want to be talking about the fact you don't fucking understand what I'm saying.
To be fair, he is an action figure and I'm a cartoon pizza.
Who would win in a fight?
You'd rot before the fight ends.
Epic Rap Battle history.
To trash and insult everyone from the people who genuinely like these movies.
All those.
Yeah, that's bad.
And they shouldn't do that.
But it happens both ways.
Fucking Major Lee ripped into people who didn't like The Last Jedi.
For no other reason than they didn't like The Last Jedi.
It's just like it happens both ways.
And it's bad if it happens.
In this video, you made a distinction between the true fans.
I'm pretty sure you said I make idiotic nitpicks, which isn't exactly a compliment, mate.
You're an idiotic nitpicker.
Idiotic.
Because you don't know the truth.
You're not a true Jurassic Park fan.
Nitpick, yeah.
To walk on them like they have the full right to do so.
Like they have the...
Oh, shit.
We got a wolf coat.
Here we go.
Here we go, guys.
All those who walked on them like they have the full right to do so.
This is the kind of dumbass where you'd expect from someone who has literal down syndrome.
Some of the filmmakers that came in the other room was very mad at him.
He's very clever.
He's very clever.
He's a very, very smart man.
Look.
So they do have the right to say whatever they want about anybody.
That's the thing.
They have the right to say that.
Yeah, they do.
I would have shamed them for saying this.
Yeah, I don't know if we should put this out there or not.
But if you ask Wolf what the context from saying that was...
Well, he might stand by the fact that the people who wrote
Fallen Kingdom were dumbasses.
He probably would stand by that.
But for Mike and Jay sarcastically referring to Colin Trevorrow as a smart man.
What do you want them to do?
What's their punishment?
What should it be?
Yeah, what's the price?
Because they don't have the right to say that.
How dare they?
Choose your punishment, red letter media.
It's funny because they've said way we're shit like that.
Yeah.
Why and how are these idiots getting writing jobs in Hollywood?
If they tell you this movie sucks, then that means they're white.
Well, I mean, he gave arguments.
He didn't just insult it.
Yeah.
Yeah, the whole video is 20 seconds long.
It just then...
Oh, Jurassic World sucks.
We end with the review.
I like that Wolf is clearly back on eFap now.
He's getting to throw his comments in.
No second guessing or room for doubt.
Don't forget to subscribe and hit the bell and...
In fairness, I don't think Wolf says that ever.
You know, don't forget to subscribe and hit the bell.
There's nothing wrong with saying it.
I mean, yeah, ultimately, like, is that a bad thing?
Yeah, it's fine to say that.
But okay.
Like the video if you like it, dislike it if you dislike it, hit subscribe,
click the bell for notifications and don't forget to turn off that pesky ad block.
Oh, that's the you need to put that one in.
As King Edward Longshanks just mentioned, by the way, when...
Do people actually say that?
What, the bell thing?
No, request people to turn off ad block.
Oh, that's a Monday bat.
Have you never heard of Monday bat?
No.
Don't worry about it.
Keep a note of that.
We'll show you.
It's very quick after the podcast, I suppose.
I'll write it in to make sure we don't forget.
But yeah, King Edward just pointed out that we're 13 minutes in
and Nostalgia Critic hasn't even been mentioned.
Oh, has he been shown?
Have we seen a clip of him?
I don't think maybe.
I can't remember.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I haven't an hour to go to them.
An hour to go.
The camera is more in focus than...
Well, I guess the joke is that he's moving the two things.
You think it's what they think that matters?
Because you're just a mother!
Okay, what the fuck is the difference between you and them then?
No, no.
Let me turn it down.
There's nothing wrong with telling people,
hey, by the way, sub, you know, like,
because a lot of times I forget to like, or dislike something.
I just like, hey, that was a good, you know, video and I move on.
But it helps in the algorithm to get like likes.
That can help you.
I find it funny to satire it because you get people who,
you know, on the opposite end of the spectrum,
that literally make like a one minute video and then go,
okay, guys, don't forget to hit that subscribe button.
And then on top of that, and they do like flashy editing,
and they go smash that fucking bell.
And you're like, what's going on?
The one that always gets me is like,
you have to assume that the people who want to subscribe and like
are people who don't know your content yet.
And so they're newcomers, right?
And generally, people ask people to subscribe and like the video
at the beginning of the video.
And it's like, I haven't even fucking seen this thing yet.
Why would I like it now?
Just because you said told me to like,
maybe if you put that the message at the end, then yeah, sure.
Yeah, confidence drama logistically, no problem with it.
I find it funny when you get what you could call like fake personnel
to YouTubers who are like, they'll draw out like two minutes
at the end of the video with it.
Something. Yeah.
Yeah, whatever.
I'm going to put it down a little bit there, buddy.
Oh, it was a funny technical difficulties.
Oh, even the deeps loud.
Oh, yeah, it is.
Oh, come on.
Okay, I have to say you've not shown enough yet
to have this reaction.
You haven't earned this.
I'm just saying you haven't earned this.
If you'd showed loads of clips of people saying like,
it's the worst.
If you don't agree on terrible, this would be warranted.
But like, you've just showed people an article that said
the dinosaur was inaccurate.
And we'll say you're a dumbass.
If you wrote earlier on, he said the volume levels
have been adjusted for my ears comfort.
And I don't believe you.
He's a liar.
He's a liar.
You're a fraud.
These are a lie.
I was going to say, it's like with the whole outrage thing
with a skit or like people like spoonie where he would do it
at the end where like, you know, you'd sum up all the shit
in the film or the game.
And then he'd have one of his metal breakdowns on camera.
Yeah, this is just he's pulling this out after a few people
said that he liked the film and it was shit and outrage.
Audio taken from domestic disturbance at Lord Ramat.
Oh, my God.
Oh, Jesus.
All right.
Okay.
All right.
Still nailing that one joke.
All right.
Okay.
I'm safe to put it back up now, right?
All right.
He's he's a little more demonic now.
He's a little more demonic now.
If I wasn't clear about it, let me rephrase it so you can
understand the current style of internet reviews.
What style needs to stop?
All right.
I'm Willard.
I'm ready, Willard.
What's the argument?
Ten years ago, it was cool to watch people trash bad movies.
It was funny to see online reviews destroy vintage media
like man children in the name of God.
It was cool when they did skits.
Well, he said, watch them destroy it like man children.
What do you mean, like man children?
Yeah, I don't understand.
Is that like...
It's the one with the fucking fit.
I was going to say, like, after what you just did and you're
calling these people man K.
But guess what?
Okay.
But guess what?
Like every trend or effect, it soon reaches a point when it's no longer funny.
Yeah, well, you don't hold the fucking flag for what's no longer funny.
When it stops being funny, then they won't be around because people won't find it funny.
And not to mention, by the way, as much as people like to call it,
film reviews will never be dead.
It'll go on for as long as films go on.
As long as there are films.
No, if they stopped making films, people would start revealing
films that came out before it.
It'll keep going and films will never fucking stop.
People will make up at their houses if Hollywood was destroyed.
I guess, yeah, film reviews will never go away.
And how humorous they are.
I mean, that's down to each reviewer.
I mean, look, people have been making jokes for thousands of years.
It needs to stop.
Humor just needs to stop.
No, it's better than that, dude.
Somebody is funny anymore.
And just like when you stick to an outdated trend that no longer interests people.
What trend reviewing movies angrily is that it's not going to go anytime soon
because one half of it is just criticism,
which is a thing that will always exist as long as art does.
And then the other half is an emotion.
Which, by the way, don't have an expiry date.
Emotions have been around for a long time.
But I mean, like the rising success of like myself and Mahler and Wolf
and all these other guys, CJ and all that, there's an audience for this
and they want to see this stuff.
Oh yeah.
And he's finding value in it.
How does he explain if it's over?
Like why is it that me, Wolf, and CJ have risen dramatically in the past year?
Assuming he's referring to us, I don't even know.
Like he's not given a specific example here.
I don't blame him for that.
I just don't really know what he's talking about.
Apparently he's referring to this man.
Anyone know who this is?
Some people are saying Young Gay Ben.
Someone from 2005?
It must be like one of the earliest YouTube reviews of a movie or something.
Yeah.
Annual lose credibility.
Of course, some will say this is CinemaSins playing the asshole.
Wait, this is Bob Vids.
What's he doing here?
Sustaining stupidity.
Why CinemaSins is terrible.
It's a pretty decent analysis video, but this is against CinemaSins,
not against all movie reviewers.
Yeah, you or I.
But, all right, let's see what context he's going.
Playing the asshole character.
Interest at what you're doing and you lose credibility.
Also, you're not excluded from this collective, Shinobi.
You're clearly an asshole reviewer, like with the attitude you've had throughout
this video so far.
Like I'm not even saying it's a bad thing.
I'm saying you are clearly a part of this collective before you assume that you're not.
Like, you know, integrity, by the way.
Cutting me out of context.
I'm not going to maintain it very, very well.
Of course, some will say this is CinemaSins playing the asshole character for a joke,
but after a certain point, it doesn't matter.
If you pretend to be stupid for long enough, you just look.
What is up, ninja?
What the fuck just happened?
Well, I guess that's all right.
That was me.
I'm a new video.
Probably sure.
What is up, ninjas?
Wait, that makes sense because I don't know how to say I'm sorry.
It's okay.
We're back.
Here we go.
Sorry.
Poor Alex.
Sending us to Digilent.
Project Zorgo.
I was wearing Riddles and Clues Challenge.
I have a prime cut there.
Nice video.
Also, I'm sorry, the day with that video, Project Zorgo at all caps took Daniel in car
at Safe House unboxing of the mysterious Riddles and Clues Challenge.
The titles of all the videos on that channel.
Fucking absolute nightmare.
Yeah, that's horrible.
Why would you?
They probably have 10 million subs, don't they?
They're just trying to, they're just trying to masturbate the algorithm.
Go and look at all their stuff.
They just, they spam.
You're just jealous because they're successful.
Yeah.
Like, nope, I guess.
I'm jealous of their success, not them.
Yeah, I wish I was making fucking box fort videos and Project Zorgo,
because you can't save house videos.
I'd fucking be all over that shit.
Can I see you, Project Zorgo?
Yeah, so I've seen the Bob Vids video.
And so he's talking about, I believe anyway, that a lot of people defend
CinemaSins as saying it's not serious content.
And the obvious counter is that CinemaSins said on the outset that they'd like
to highlight to Hollywood issues within their film's writing.
And it's a thing.
And then you have videos of Jeremy coming out of the cinema in his car,
sharing his criticisms of the films in a genuine talking way.
And then those criticisms show up in CinemaSins videos.
And so you're like, oh, so some of these are genuine.
And he's like, no, just take it as a joke.
And you're like, oh, because there's just they really skew the line
between what's supposed to be supposed to be critical.
And so he's got a leg on each side.
Yeah. And if he was to say, I am playing an asshole character and therefore
what when you say I'm incorrect or I'm being over the top,
you don't understand the content.
And it's like, yeah, but you don't claim that all the time.
Yeah, it's like there's a clear dividing line between one and the other.
Yeah.
And so he can just conveniently pick up that moniker
and put it down whenever he wants just to suit himself.
Oh, Bob Vids is someone I'm hoping to get on this podcast eventually
because he's got a he's got a video I would totally recommend where he rips into.
He rips into CinemaSins videos in a sin format.
He's like he's kind of like a cinema since since actually we've had him on the podcast.
He's like him, but no offense to Jay.
But Bob Vids, as he probably agrees, production value is a little higher.
He's got extremely awesome animations for having everything work out.
Nice sound design and a great microphone.
So yeah, it'll be interesting how this is somehow going to support
Shinobi so far because I don't I don't see it.
Yeah, let's be stupid for long enough.
You just look stupid perpetuating your stupidity to people
who are rightly confused about what you're trying to say.
Nowadays, people don't get much entertainment from accentuating on the negative alone.
How do you know that?
I believe they do.
And what what metric are you citing for that?
I mean, my channel is basically devoted to highlighting the negative things and responding to them.
I mean, yeah, it's a bit of a weird one because I, you know, my last Jedi series as much as well.
Certainly the rant videos are deliberately fully negative.
So and I mean, I'm literally just citing results, but there's a lot of people who like them.
So I'm confused, but fair enough.
The audience who grew up with that style has reached a point
where they want something much more interesting and more productive.
Okay, according to what metric everyone should we just say in citation, please?
Because that would I'm just confused.
He's just like how all those self-proclaimed reviewers demand for self-proclaimed reviewers.
What exactly how can somebody who says they're a reviewer not be one?
I don't.
It's very, very simple.
If you review things, you are a reviewer.
No, that's just self-proclaiming.
Damn self-proclaimed proclaimers.
He's a self-proclaimed self-proclaimer of.
Someone has to proclaim it for you.
Yeah, you need you need to dig up Roger Ebert and have him declare it for you.
That's the only way.
Does he take the same argument for trans people?
Why don't we ask him?
The movies, the audience of those reviewers demand for better reviews as well.
Back these so-called self-proclaimed proclaimed transgender.
Oh, look, Nostalgia Critic.
Yay, 14 and a half minutes in, we made it.
We got it.
Then it was funny when reviewers called the makers idiots or incompetence.
Now it is mostly seen as disrespect.
Well, that's that's different.
If it's going after Kelly Marie Tran personally on Instagram,
which as we've been over isn't confirmed as the reason she left Instagram.
You have to wonder if this would have been brought up had she not left Instagram.
I wonder if that would be the case.
But either way, there is a difference between saying the writing is awful
and going up to Kelly Marie Tran and saying you're a horrible person.
There's a difference between those things.
Now, if I was to be a learning carpenter and I make a chair that has one leg
and you can't sit on it without it falling over.
And the carpenter said, this is not a good chair.
I'm not going to say, you know what?
I well, you're the carpenter.
That's you.
You're a self-proclaimed carpenter.
You don't know shit.
If you were a true carpenter, you would like my chair.
Jeez, it's a different stuff.
Trying to make it all the same thing.
Mean spirited, cool.
Another wall.
If you mean spirited and cruel, that means you mean spirited and cruel.
That doesn't stop you from being a reviewer, though, in fairness.
So it's because people were horrible to what's-her-name Holly Marie Tran,
Kelly Marie Tran.
We're all now assholes because we say negative things about movies.
Well, yeah, we're all getting lumped in now.
I'd like for him to cite a moment where I said, I don't know,
something very, very mean as opposed to criticism of the movie.
I'm sure I have, but I'm just curious if I'm involved in this group or not.
It doesn't matter how many times that myself or Mahler or anyone that we know
says you shouldn't harass actors for the character.
I mean, it's not going to stop the people who do it anymore.
We're all the fucking same.
No difference between us.
I mean, we're all we're deep down.
We're all just a bunch of Nazis.
Exactly.
Under the skin, Nazis.
Makes them look like big jerks for the sake of being jerks,
especially nowadays when cyberbullying.
I was lucky enough to meet Kelly Marie Tran briefly and she was incredibly nice
to a comics writer who may have been geeking out a bit too much.
It's fine to not like fictional characters.
It's not find it.
Yeah, that's what we're saying, too.
Yeah, that's what.
Yeah, what is it?
What is what point are you trying to make?
Who are you countering right now?
Nostalgia Critic review of Jurassic Park Fallen Kingdom is incorrect because of cyberbullying.
And he plays clearly in the review for Fallen Kingdom.
Nostalgia Critic clearly said that Kelly Marie Tran is a bad person.
I almost like I almost feel like a lot of the times in these reviews they throw in shit like
this that everybody everybody obviously agrees with as if that will help them with the overall.
Yeah, like if you agree with this, you agree with the video, right?
And it's like, yeah, I agree.
We shouldn't harass the actress.
Yeah, we shouldn't do that.
But you're just trying to get me in the mood.
It's like you're setting me up and priming me to agree with you.
I don't know anybody he's counted yet.
I mean, aside from Wolf saying that the writers were dumbasses, which again, like,
they might be.
He didn't go to him.
He didn't go to him personally.
So he's at least got that.
He literally just said it in his video, which, by the way, you can absolutely say is his opinion.
So like, I'm not sure if you guys know already, but off the top of your heads,
do you think Shinobi likes the last Jedi or doesn't like the last Jedi?
No idea.
I would say that he likes the last Jedi.
I get the sneaking suspicion that he thinks it's amazing.
Well, I think this is a first for how I think his hatred comes from the fact that he loves
Jurassic Park's the franchise and Fallen Kingdom.
He might actually be outside of the whole Star Wars debate.
Who knows?
He might keep bringing Star Wars up.
There's no way with all the fucking action figures that he has.
He doesn't have some stormtroopers or a Luke or something.
Fucking Jar Jar Binks.
Yeah.
Al, do you want to say what you're going to say?
Oh, I forgot.
No, do I?
Oh, all right.
Or just bullying in general has reached dangerous levels where victims.
Where the hell did this non sequitur come from?
It's like there are views that are negative and they're not funny.
Okay.
Also don't abuse people.
Yeah.
All kinds either went through terrible mental traumas or ended their lives.
It's not just your-
Nostalgia critic well known for his abuse to actors in productions.
Just kind of feels like what you're saying earlier about Quentin just like breaking his
review up to just start moaning about Trump.
Like yeah, this guy's just where he just pulled stuff out of his ass.
That's completely irrelevant at all.
Or is he just sort of like riffing?
Also who ended their lives?
I didn't think the film was that bad, but.
Hi, I'm a Marvel and I'm a DC.
Oh God, is this going to be-
Or successes or our problems though.
It's more than that.
Has anyone else noticed things have felt a bit meaner lately?
Anytime some-
Oh, it's always been mean.
What are you?
It's just that the abilities of people to directly attack people have improved since before.
If these-
If DC made better movies that wouldn't be an issue.
Is the argument here that reviews like mine where I angrily attack a movie
are encouraging people to angrily attack people?
Because you're no different from people saying we shouldn't have doom because
it encourages people to murder each other.
It's like fuck off, it's a movie review.
If you can't tell the difference and you start to think yeah,
I should go and attack Kelly Marie Tran.
It's not my video's fault.
I didn't tell you to do that.
When one compares our companies you get so much snark and divisiveness and hate.
I don't know, it seems like you're being pretty divisive over these people.
It's like you're not allowed to have emotions.
It seems like you guys are the ones that are the stick in the mud right now.
I've never done that.
Do we really want to see how far this rivalry might go?
The one between Marvel and DC.
I'm sure these multi-million dollar corporations are going to be all right.
And I'm sure they're happy about this to be honest the conflict because it would.
It's like how fucking Microsoft and Sony love it
when you have your stupid fucking console wars.
Not to mention by the way, I'm almost responding to somebody who's taken out of context to match
something that he's saying.
So I don't even know entirely what this guy's even saying to be pivotal.
I gotta bust out the fucking roadmap again and see where the hell we are in this video.
Like wasn't this supposed to be like a Jurassic Park dinosaur thing?
No, we're the dinosaurs.
Where are the dinosaurs?
I'm like Roger Ebert.
Where are the dinosaurs?
I want the dinosaurs.
It is your punching down at a company that everyone criticizes
and we're punching up at a company that everyone loves.
Okay, even let's just assume the context of that is stop hating on DC and loving Marvel.
Is that what he's saying?
Because DC is doing badly and Marvel's doing well.
I don't care about this whole punching up, punching down bullshit.
What does he say?
Punching down at a company.
I'm pretty sure the company really fine.
I'm a dog in a room.
How do you come after this company Rags?
I'm just picturing like a little cartoon dog going around a giant building.
I just go to the flower bed and piss on it.
Wait, as someone said, I think the video he's referencing
is about people arguing with the Infinity War Justice League of Beta.
It's Infinity War.
Yeah, it's Infinity War.
You don't need an argument for it, you should be.
Infinity War fighting me.
Punch down at a mega corporation.
It's just funny.
So putting ourselves through this.
Do you know the saying everybody is a critic?
Just because you can make a certain criticism,
that doesn't automatically make you a critic.
All right.
If you're going to say the shit about real fans,
what actual critics, self-proclaimed reviewers,
can you actually give us some definitions that you at least follow?
What is it that makes a critic?
Please tell me.
Not everybody is qualified to be a critic in the...
What?
But I am.
Qualified to be a critic.
What does that even mean?
Yeah, did you get a degree in criticism?
As far as I'm concerned.
You read this book though.
I hate this no true Scotsman shit.
I've got a degree in film production.
Does that count?
Can I be a critic now?
No.
Moving to the same fucking ruling.
No, this guy said you can't.
He hasn't shared what his credentials are, but...
Can I make goofy videos on the internet and get...
I am going to go with this.
How many dolls do you have?
They're not dolls, they're action figures.
God respect that.
Action figure.
Let me read some of these super chats so we can find where we were.
Okay, damn it.
Give me a sec.
Oh, there we go.
I think I'm...
Just a quick thank you.
I'm a real Jurassic Park fan.
I would never recommend any of the sequels to anyone.
You're not real then.
Yeah, you're a fake fan.
I was a fan Jurassic Park was overrated.
Aww.
I mean, it was beyond beloved.
So maybe I'd agree that it's overrated, but only narrowly.
I can adore that film.
Anyone who uses the phrase real fans is a tool.
I pretty much agree.
There's no time where...
I'm going to separate myself because I'm a real fan.
Not like you fake fan.
Why do you care so much about the way you self-identify with a film franchise?
It's not making you any money.
It's not doing anything for you as a person.
If you're using real fan to separate the people who liked and disliked, that's just shit.
But if you...
If someone says...
Let's say you have a group of friends laughing about a joke in Infinity War
and then some other guy goes,
yeah, I love Marvel.
And then you go, oh, yeah, which one's your favorite?
And then they go, probably...
Batman.
The guy who jumps around and you look at him and you're like,
do you have any idea what we're talking about?
And he's like, yeah, I love the superheroes.
They're great.
And then you go...
I love Master Chief.
He's my favorite.
And you wouldn't need to say it, but if someone then said,
you're not a real fan, are you?
They would have a context that I think would be fair to say something like that.
But when someone says, I do not like the new Star Wars film that they go,
well, you're not a real fan of Star Wars, then are you?
He sounds like darts from Yu-Gi-Oh! abridged.
I don't know what that sounds like.
Reading an EU starship guide from the sector on deflector shields
designed to protect the ship from high velocity particles.
Good thing it's non-canon Orion wouldn't have gotten his scene.
They wouldn't have cared.
Yeah, like they would have given a shit about lore.
Efap 15.
Ebit JP is a bad movie.
Guest is pizza guy.
Efap to an Ebit video would never go well.
I don't think people would be upset.
Because not only is he not alive to say anything about it,
but it's also from a very different time.
Or at least if we were to do an old one.
You guys should watch everything great about A Quiet Place
when Wolf comes back or any of CinemaWinds' videos.
We'll consider it.
The problem, and I don't know what you guys think about this.
It'll be interesting to get your take.
CinemaWinds is a channel about being positive and happy
and non-confrontational.
So to break him down in terms of how wrong he is,
do you think that's almost like contextually not fair game?
If it's on YouTube, it's fair game.
Well, I agree with that.
But I was just wondering what you guys think.
Because it depends.
Obviously, the way that we respond to videos
is often very dependent on how those videos have tone
and stuff like that.
Like what they say, how they say it.
The more confrontational they are,
and the kind of person that they are,
influence is how we respond in turn.
So if you're very nice and kind, but you're just wrong.
Yeah, we're not going to respond to you like your dreams.
I could see Wolf call it a bit idiot.
But we'll try to be as nice as we can
if you're being as nice as you can.
Well, even if you are focusing on the positives,
you would still be wrong.
Yeah, it doesn't just become,
oh, well, you were praising the film
because I like the film.
Therefore, free pass.
You just, yeah.
Yeah, no, I'll keep that in mind.
Because I'm sure Wolf would like to do it.
Have you seen Jared's video about Wolf?
I almost cry.
Oh, no.
He did one on me that I saw.
But maybe he's done one on all of us.
That would make sense, I suppose.
Let me just see if he has.
I'm pretty sure he's got cutouts
of all your faces in his closet, you know.
He's got my thoughts on Mauler.
Gonna get a sleep car work rant, okay?
Cuck Boogie brings his therapist on a video.
I love it.
He's like, I've got Donald Trump insults for YouTube.
It's like, you know, Cuck Boogie.
I haven't seen, I'm not sure if he's got a Wolf video.
He might do, but, you know, Jared's an interesting fellow.
He always has been.
Um, my mother who regularly watches every-
Ducky what?
My mother who regularly watches every
shitty network procedural crime investigation
on hospital show weekly.
That was difficult to say.
Noted to me that she found Fallen Kingdom
was written very poorly.
Even the normies have noticed
the self-proclaimed, uh, mothers.
One, Siskel.
This movie sucks, character's boring.
Clearly a missed opportunity.
Two, thumbs up.
Two, bad characters.
Even Holdo is decent in Jurassic Park.
She's better in that than in, uh, I see another film.
Knuckfast and Efap on the same night.
Do you guys have a schedule?
Do you have an Efap when you have an urge to spig?
Literally just, just the most informal way you could imagine.
Well, that's true, but the day and time is, is never consistent.
But we'd like, if, if I could, I would probably
make it Saturday at 8 p.m. GMT every time,
but that's not going to be possible with a lot of the best.
It's always depending on your guests.
Yeah.
Like this, this pizza guy, he's from the Ukraine
and he sleeps three days out of four days in a week.
And stays like four.
He's a very strange man.
Fringy's the Aussie, isn't he?
He is, yeah.
He's from the Aussie.
Yeah, because like when he-
Like this one, Wolf works on the weekend
and he's in college as well in certain days.
So he just, he's only available.
He's retarded times.
And so once he comes back, everyone's going
to be complaining about that again.
But it's nothing we can do.
Yeah, Wolf's the worst behavior.
He hated on Fallen Kingdom, that asshole.
Not a case at all.
Wow.
He's not right.
I bet he thought he was right when he like made his video on it too.
Forgot to ask last Efap, but to play devil's advocate,
what are some movies with airtight writing that don't have
plot holes that last night offenders haven't seen?
The two I cite as of recently, because I used to just-
The point was, theoretically, it's possible.
If you have a movie that's constructed of scenes
that have plot holes that can either be corrected,
or it just has scenes that don't have plot holes in them,
theoretically, you can make a movie and it would exist out there.
But as for ones I've actually seen, I don't know of any plot holes from-
Well, let's just throw it in Bruges,
because you could definitely argue that the plot is so simple though.
It'd be like, yeah, but the point is there's no plot holes in it.
What's a plot hole in 12 Angry Men?
Just give me one and give me one from in Bruges,
and I would be surprised you could find them.
That would be my point.
Well, the other thing, well, if you're trying to assess if it was flawless or not,
I guess that's fine.
But we're talking about certain plot holes that certain ones,
obviously, are really minor inconsequential compared to other ones.
Yeah, like something moves in a scene,
like a cup is on one part of the shelf and then it moves to the other.
Yeah, minor continuity is like that.
Look at it from a macro perspective.
Does it affect the actual outcomes or like the causality of the movie itself?
Yeah, and only when that shit happens,
I normally call it like a plot canyon or whatever, just like to emphasize it.
Yeah, we need to eradicate the word plot holes because it's-
Everyone fucking hates the word anyway now.
It's demonized by Patrick Willems as a clit.
We should shut up about them.
Oh, yeah, I piped down all of you.
Dinosaurs became gay as a result of the frog DNA?
Yes, that's very true.
Jurassic Park is built on outdated science and each sequel keeps trying to stay up to date
at the cost of consistency in the world.
I mean, I don't know about all that, but they explained it away as far as I'm concerned.
It's like, why don't the dinosaurs look like they should?
And then he says, well, because the producers of the park wanted them to look more ferocious.
They didn't want the real thing.
And I'm like, oh, so they changed the DNA.
Okay, fine.
It's all fictional anyway.
That's the part of the benefit of fiction.
But if it was inconsistent in some way within their own fiction,
then I'd have an issue.
I hate the no sound in space argument.
We are the audience.
We don't care for the rules of the world when we see it in a movie.
Let's wait.
I don't know if they're saying that as a quote from them or a quote from themselves.
I care about it.
I was going to say, I care about the world.
That's why I really liked Jackass 2.5 because there are no plot holes.
My plot hole for that film would be how do they live or how do they survive?
Quentin takes the title from movie Bob for biggest fag.
It's tough for me.
Movie Bob is pretty insane.
Like, yeah, it's tough.
How was your Thanksgiving?
Also, space is 99% silent based on local gas density, not 100%.
The 2000s Bellstock Alactica did space quiet pretty well.
So there's only one person here who would have celebrated Thanksgiving.
So how was it, Rags?
It was great.
It was great.
My Thanksgiving went really well.
Well, there we are.
And as for Bellstock Alactica, have you seen it all?
Yeah, I was telling you about it before because when I was rewatching it, along with Blade Runner.
Is how they do noises in space neat?
They just have the sounds, but they're muted.
Or they're non-muffled, but they are toned down, I guess.
And they're like, yeah, or the ships moving.
But then you also have the explosions, but again, they're muffled.
It's what they should be.
It doesn't matter.
That show's got way bigger problems than any fucking sound issues in space anyway.
Such a shit point to go on with sci-fi films most of the time.
Because you need a certain amount of artistic license to be able to be creative and be innovative
and change the experience for the viewer.
So yeah, we could make all sci-fi movies deadly accurate and they'd all be fucking silent.
But how interesting would that be?
And how quickly would people get bored of it?
That's what I like about the idea that it's like, hey, our space movie,
we're going to say that the rules of whatever allows sound to travel through space.
The other angle is that, you know, you said Diagetic,
you could argue that the sounds are a part of the soundtrack.
You could say that that's because we allow soundtracks to exist.
It's not like there's a speaker in every scene playing it.
Yeah, there's a boombox in the background playing a John Williams score.
As far as it goes with like sci-fi, as long as it doesn't flip-flop
between the rules in the same film, whatever.
Yeah, you just need a consistent very similitude.
Or do you just need consistent building?
Oh man, we don't need words that fancy, come down.
Yeah, it's nearly shown.
Very similature.
I believe he says that in one of his videos.
Am I an official critic yet or not?
It sounds like a Vermitide DLC.
Yeah, he also says it in one of his videos.
I think it's one of the Legend of Korra ones.
And he has like a goof where he's...
Oh no, sorry, it's The Force Awakens, I think.
And he says, at the end, he's got like multiple takes of him trying to get the word right.
Because he keeps going.
Verma... Verma... Verma... Verma... Verma...
We must protect the castle verisimilitude.
But sorry, he had to come back to this guy.
He said that these people aren't critics or whatever.
Oh shit, sorry, there's two I've missed, actually.
At least we have to see what...
He also seems to be probably bored from like watching this guy,
as you just talk about our own shit.
I think people like to listen to us talk more than they want to listen to this video,
to be honest.
I'm sure there's that up here.
But I'm just like, God, I don't care what he's got.
He's not even funny anymore.
Yeah, but I just feel like hopefully the last 10 minutes of this video
isn't just more fucking skits, because he's really not made any points yet.
Well, he's told us what a true fan is, what a real person is.
I mean, he's got like four parts.
Maybe he has like a segment on like part two or whatever.
It's his defense of the film.
Yeah, this part isn't...
This is so weak anywhere.
I'm not excited for the next part.
At least we get to see women in Fallen Kingdom.
That is a joke that only rags will get, I think.
No, I get that.
Oh, you saw the thing.
Women, oh yeah.
Why are you complaining about women?
We get to see women.
Pushed Venom.
Wolf, a critic denied his plat...
Punished Venom.
Wolf, a critic denied his platform.
Punished Venom Wolf?
I'm confused about...
I'm sorry, I don't understand.
When Jar Jar's actor and Jake Lloyd kid Anakin
get bullied and nearly kill themselves
because of their roles in the prequels, it's fine.
But when it happens to Tran, all of a sudden it's a huge problem.
I mean, he's not...
Because I found out about the Jar Jar one.
Go into that extreme after people started talking about it
after the Kelly Marie Tran thing.
And it is interesting that it's being used more so
in relation to The Last Jedi when it's like,
no, this just happens with movies and people and...
How about this?
People are assholes?
Yeah.
It's the fact that this movie has been so politicized
and that they'll use it as an angle to drive a message.
The thing I want to say was, you know, with Jake Lloyd,
what surely most of you want to be like in school,
and I don't know about like child actors,
like say like Daniel Radcliffe and all that with Harry Potter.
I'm sure they didn't get abuse compared to Jake Lloyd
did for Stiles because I think Harry Potter films
were pretty damn well received for my fans and all that shit.
But that was in school and I guess,
if you're going to be an actor,
and then while still in like high school
or middle school or whatever,
you're always going to have a target painted on you and you.
I've had to know.
You know, when we were younger,
there was this kid that was in a commercial serial called Frosty's.
He sang some like lame song, Bully Pretty Bad.
There was like an article about that guy.
I don't know, I don't think he like killed himself or anything.
It's not the they're going to taste great songs.
Yeah, it was that case, yeah.
You knew him or knew.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
He got he got like really badly bullied after those adverts came.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I remember people used to say that like he killed himself.
I was sticking two pencils up his nose and slamming his face.
I was like the kind of bullshit you hear to school.
Do you remember the guy and well guy kid in Revenge of the Sith,
Anakin is about to murder with the kids and he says,
Master Skywalker, what are we going to do?
Remember that kid?
He did a Reddit AMA and just just as that,
he was like, I am the kid in Revenge of the Sith that says,
you know, Master Skywalker.
And people were like, Oh, did you get bullied for it?
He was like, Well, yeah, fucking his friends would,
his friends would just randomly be like, Oh, there's no,
there's a giant queue.
What are we going to do?
And what I'm saying, I guess, is that, you know,
I'm sure he took that well.
And he was just like, Oh, it's a goofy shit.
I think he got it.
He got it when he do turn into Jake Lloyd.
But then you get people who maybe made some really cruel jokes a lot.
And maybe some careers were ruined.
And it's just like, Yeah, what are you saying?
That being having negative criticism is the cause.
So there's a difference.
There's a line that gets crossed.
There's a difference between me saying,
Ryan Johnson fucked up the last Jedi and me going to his house
and trying to axe murder him.
Like, Ryan, a step gets taken.
I know where you live, Ryan.
And to bring back that analogy,
if a carpenter told me I had a shitty chair
because it couldn't even stand straight and you can't sit on it.
I'm not supposed to go,
Well, I just your negative criticism needs to stop.
Because I'm going to leave Instagram because he said my chair was bad.
You know, there's a difference.
But if he actually tried to murder me because of the chair again,
different crazy carpenter man.
The way we all associate that world with.
What makes a good critic, in my opinion,
is first being neutral to everything they're going to experience.
No, it depends on the criteria.
Even before like, I mean,
is he be neutral right now?
I think that what he's trying to say,
though, very poorly,
is that he's saying you should basically go in with a neutral mindset
that it could even that, though.
What if you find out the director killed several people to create the movie?
You go in being like, well, shit, like,
I'm going to I'm going to be weighing up whether that was fair.
Yeah, but the movie might still be good.
Well, my point is that you wouldn't agree.
Do you keep any any information that's beyond the movie?
Like, what about the fact that it's a sequel?
Does that mean you have to keep the previous movie?
You're going in with the context.
Yeah, of your knowledge of the franchise.
So downward.
Downward Thrust recently made a video talking about Battlefield 5.
And it might be one that we cover.
I think it's one that's kind of on a docket.
But essentially, if he was talking about how none of the politics and none of the EA stuff
and anything made it into the review.
And the way I see that is if a company like EA goes out of their way to use the game to.
Fuck me, Alex.
What are you doing?
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Will I go back and wait?
What is up, ninjas?
The projects are go to.
I got to do the thing.
I was doing on the other screen.
Sorry.
But the thing is, if a company like EA uses a game to push politics and to speak a certain
way and to put out a message, then I don't think it's fair for reviewers to not be allowed to
respond to that message in a review of the product that EA used to specifically push certain messages.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
The marketing for the product should be included in the experience and the reviewing of it.
He said he said, though, that in my opinion, critics should go in like my my issue isn't
because you can you can go in absolutely objective and have absolutely no influence
beyond the film itself, but should know sometimes I want to ignore you know who I'd like to hear
from the neutral.
So you have like a movie that's based entirely around firemen doing firemen things.
I'd be like, man, can I hear from it?
I wouldn't mind hearing from a fireman who goes into this film knowing how firemen shit works.
And so he's obviously going to be is going to be a subjective experience based on his knowledge of
how what I'm trying to get at here is that a critic going in completely objective, irrelevant
of anything, that's fine, but should do that.
It depends on what he's actually going to qualify this into because, man, like,
plenty of critics can do whatever the hell they want.
All you need to do is criticize to be a critic.
A critic, not everybody is qualified to be a critic in the way we all associate that world with.
What makes a good critic, in my opinion, is first being neutral to everything they're going to
experience.
See that the fireman wouldn't be neutral, would he?
Because he'd be a fireman.
Can you be neutral to the Holocaust?
Can you be neutral?
Is that even possible?
Yeah, can you be neutral?
Because, you know, you could be like, okay, someone who's never seen or heard of a film,
never spoken to anyone, never blah, blah, blah, but they would that.
Do you know what I mean?
Like, you can be tainted, or maybe I should find a better word, biased based on anything
to be completely neutral.
What does he mean by that?
Everybody's like, what are dinosaurs to everything they're going to experience
when you either go to watch a movie or play a game or read a book,
you need to do with the expectation of it being good.
What?
What?
That's the exact opposite of what you just said.
Yeah, that's neutral is not.
You need to be neutral and expect it to be good immediately.
If a neutral, a neutral critic can review five bad movies in a row and call all five
of them bad and still be neutral in your case.
Yeah, I'm good.
What the hell does he mean?
Read a book, you need to do with the expectation of it being good.
When you are a one note critic who says everything is terrible.
Yeah, that's different.
Yeah, that's a complete.
Yeah, you can't go in with the expectation.
He's not covered a single person in this video who says everything's bad.
Not a single person in this video.
He's shown.
I know that for a fact.
Yeah.
So who are you talking about, mate?
What would that be?
That that thing, you know,
everything.
What if you watched and reviewed 20 movies at random and they were all terrible?
Yeah, like giving things the benefit of the doubt is not neutral.
What the fuck?
If anything, the most neutral thing you could do is completely withhold your opinion.
The most neutral critic is one that doesn't say anything.
I'm picturing the shit from Futurama, the people of the neutral system who are just like,
sir, we're about to be destroyed.
He just goes, how do you feel about that?
He's just like, I feel okay.
The film was okay.
Tell my wife.
Hello.
Also, just to account for it, someone saying the word he's looking for his objective.
I'm not sure if he is.
I don't know.
He doesn't know the word he's looking for.
Obviously, what we advocate for is you get the facts and then you get stuff that's changed by
your experiences.
So, you know, you may like a certain story more because it appeals to the things that
have happened in your life, irrelevant of its own consistency or its efficiency and
explaining the story.
That's the difference.
But with what he's explaining here, I don't I have no idea what he's trying to really get
out.
Like you need to go in neutral, liking everything or something or thinking it'll be good.
Why would you wouldn't it be thinking it's neutral?
Wouldn't that be the neutral thing to do?
I would rather people have a bias that they wear on their sleeve.
Yeah, yeah.
Me and Alex have gone into, for example, Al, me and you thought Spider-Man Homecoming was
going to be really bad.
Yeah, that for me, I can't say for you, but that for me, because I didn't see the trailer,
but it was just from people on the Discord just saying that, oh, it's OK.
Oh, it's, you know, it's awful.
Some people say I think the guy's name, but he's not my kind of Peter Parker or Spider-Man.
That's it.
Yeah, people were saying stuff like that.
I was like, OK, well, let's just check it out.
And like, well, it was way more surprised than there were people.
And we've gone into things thinking they're going to be amazing and then been like,
what the hell?
Yeah, Prometheus.
Look at Stranger Things season two.
But regardless of your mindset going into an experience, if what you're watching doesn't
have the ability to change your opinion, and it doesn't matter whether you thought it was
good or bad, like how much, how much of an effect does it really, your preconceived
ideas, how much of an effect is that going to have?
Do you know what I mean?
It's a thing.
If I go into watching a film saying I just want to hate it, and then I come out saying
it was bad because I wanted to hate it, then yeah, don't listen to me.
Yeah.
What the hell is the point?
But if I make actual arguments like Fallen Kingdom is chock full of arguments against it.
We've not covered a single substantive one, but hey, whatever.
I think your example of homecoming speaks true for me as well, because I went into that movie
fully expecting it just to be like shit.
And it finished and I was like, wow, I enjoyed that film.
And like, so I went into it thinking it was going to be bad, but I didn't come out of it
then hating it because of my preconceived idea.
So his point doesn't really have much weight anyway.
So the point he's failing to make doesn't make sense.
Just remembered another line from the neutral people in Futurama where
because he thinks he's going to die, he says, call my wife, tell her hello.
Okay,
addition of it being good.
When you are a one note critic who says everything is terrible.
That makes you boring and very good.
Going into something that is going to be bad does not make you a one note critic.
Also, how who is he?
Who are you talking about?
Yeah, who is he talking about?
Is it this character from this show?
This is the show is called the critic, I think.
And he consistently says it stinks.
I believe.
I yeah, I have no idea who he's talking about.
I wish I'd say give me names.
Give me the names.
Predictable.
But if your criticism is varied and make different opinions from time to time,
that makes you interesting to follow and makes it if you're wondering
what will be your opinion like with each other.
That's your argument.
It makes you interesting.
I I would subscribe to plenty of people who hate everything.
If it was funny, if it was well presented.
Yeah.
Some people say that's their value.
Their value is that they are entertaining.
Make different for goes the idea that some people might just search out
movies that they know are going to be bad or they know are bad
and deliberately review them because they can create more of an entertaining
article or video or whatever on that content.
Sometimes it's fun to shit on bad stuff.
I hate to reveal this, but me and Wolf have both made videos
that are actually in praise of certain pieces of media.
I'm sorry.
Something we've done.
Oh yeah, by the people are referencing it.
I hate everything.
The YouTube channel about hating everything he covers.
And how many subs is he again?
Like 10 or 3 million?
Just one.
Just one sub.
This is himself.
He wasn't popular.
Nobody knew about that.
And opinions from time to time that makes you interesting to follow
and makes it if you're wondering what will be your opinion like with each episode.
One thing I would say though is that if you think most things are bad
and you have a very high standard, that can be interesting to see what you do find good.
Yeah.
And with me, like people know whether or not I liked or disliked the thing from the title.
Because if I call it a praise, I probably liked it.
If I called it a rage, I probably didn't like it.
And I don't think they're there to find out whether I liked it.
They want to hear the arguments.
No.
These comics suck.
This comic!
Oh my gosh, I had that comic.
I had that old Pokemon one.
Yeah, I had like four of them.
Like the first four.
I have those.
Oh gosh.
Anyway, this comic is...
Most of the jetty could be the day for the most part.
But it's still not good.
Anyway, this origin is pretty damn good.
Wait, is that his example of like nuance when you conclude that something...
As long as you've got evidence on your channel of saying something is...
That we've defends the actual film.
I was like...
Yeah, this is in the trailer.
Well here, what's the...
Tell me what the ratio is.
What's the ratio for being a good film...
Or sorry, a good critic between what...
The things you say are good and things you say are bad.
How many to how many?
What's the ratio of what you...
He wants you to be neutral, so by definition, that should be 50-50.
But by his definition of neutral, it should be more like 70-30.
All right, I think I'm getting this twisted logic here.
So the idea is that you have four movies.
A good one, an okay one, a not so good one, and a terrible one.
And he's saying that if you're a neutral critic,
you will detect that from all four of them to the T.
But if you're a bad critic and you go and hate them hating things,
then you'll hate all of them.
But it's also okay to go in loving them all, question mark?
I'm assuming he thinks that's bad too, right?
If you love everything.
Does he have a problem with cinema wins compared to cinema sins?
This wouldn't be the first time that we've heard from people.
There seems to be a, it's bad when you hate on it unnecessarily,
but to love it unnecessarily is fine.
Yeah.
It's like giving something the benefit of the doubt is fine,
but not giving it the benefit of the doubt is, you know,
it's got to work both ways.
That's essentially the thing.
Yeah, I mean, the problem as well is that if he's actually
counter-referencing with a nostalgia critic,
I'm pretty sure he's praised the shit out of several things in his time.
So gonna have to say I'm confused on this one.
It's going to suck anyway.
Then maybe you shouldn't waste your time on it because...
So thinking a film is going to suck doesn't mean that it will.
So there's perfectly reasonable to go and see it anyway.
So if a film is bad, you shouldn't do a review of it.
Yeah, I'm going to go see episode nine.
Just go find a good film that you like and then do a nice review of that instead,
because then you'll be a better critic.
Only if you've had too many.
Yeah, only if you've had some bad reviews before it,
you have to keep the ratio.
It's very important.
Fucking hell.
It's like I've done seven bad reviews.
Time to find me a good film.
I don't know about you guys, but well, it's probably not the case.
But I can write at length and passionately about things that I really hate.
But when I start writing about things that I like, I just want it boring.
I agree.
It's all...
It's entertaining to listen to people shit on things.
It's important to understand the motivation.
All right.
So if you're like, I want to share my perspective, that alone is fine.
It doesn't matter what your perspective is.
If that's what you want to do, go for it.
You don't have somebody in your room saying don't do that.
It could have negative effects.
Like what fucking planet are you living on where we're not allowed to do that?
Like fuck that.
But secondly, if you're like, this thing is awful,
and I'm going to explain to people why because a lot of people don't get it.
There's so many good videos on YouTube about that where they're like,
people think this thing is amazing.
I'm going to show you why it's not.
And vice versa.
Some people think this is terrible.
I don't want to show you why it's good.
These things are great too.
And it's like, what?
You're not allowed in case negativity is...
This is like just right again.
He's like, stop trying to take enjoyment out of the world.
He's like, what do you mean?
You don't have to watch the video.
Does Shinobi think that every single year,
the exact same ratio of good to bad movies will be consistent?
What if there's a year where there's a lot of bad movies?
Oh, like 2018?
That sounds like a good thing.
Fuck it.
I love the 50-50 split.
In fact, yeah, no, to be fair, I think I watch a lot of movies too.
And I probably, I reckon I see maybe three or four a year that I think,
yeah, that's fucking great.
And then I see maybe hundreds that are all average or shit.
And who cares if you think it's going to be bad going in?
He's like, you shouldn't go see it if you think it's going to be bad.
It's like, well, what if it surprises me?
We wouldn't have seen Spider-Man Homecoming if we were going by that logic.
So we have to be consistent.
You shouldn't go in if you think it's going to be good.
Yeah, because that's not neutral.
Yeah, it's not neutral.
You shouldn't go and see films that you don't know about.
You've got no clue what they're about.
You show up at the theater, you close your eyes and say,
give me a ticket to a movie, please.
Just give me, I'll have whatever the person before me had.
Sir, this is a McDonald's.
You're like, don't complain.
Give me the ticket.
In that case, supersize it.
I can't listen to you.
You're going to make me non-neutral.
Give me some nugs for my movie.
Yes.
Tell me more about Nostalgia Critic being biased and evil.
Because you weren't planning to like it and weren't prepared to have anything
not to say about it from the beginning.
Well, see, that's different.
If they go in, not prepared to say anything nice about it.
Why nice?
See, this is very telling, isn't it?
The, um, the idea that negative criticism, say, for example,
just saying this thing doesn't make sense to him.
He would be like, that's not nice.
Like that.
Nice.
What do you mean nice?
Like, stop, disassociate it, people.
The idea that you criticize writing does not mean you're being mean to people.
Yes.
Being nice.
Just being nice to Fallen Kingdom.
Fallen Kingdom's a little kid.
He's a little kid.
The reason people think that is because people don't generally like to be criticized.
That's just humans.
Yeah, that's true.
So we associate criticism with negativity.
And so if you criticize a moldy apple, they're like,
why don't you be nice to the moldy apple?
Or if you criticize a multi-million pound movie, that's not nice.
You're not a nice person.
Be nice to the, it's so weird that these people like all of a sudden corporations
are the, the beloved darlings of our society and we should be kind and nice to them.
It's like you, y'all fuckers flip-flop pretty goddamn hard in the last 10 years.
But let's sue Gerade.
We had a bet.
Think of the poor celebrities.
Who is the poor corporations that Rags is peeing on?
These poor multi-million dollar biquitously known cultural icons.
Won't you think of how they feel?
Anything not to say about it from the beginning.
We had a bet going into this.
Who is going to be the most bland actor?
I had gone with Russell Crowe.
I actually pressed on for him.
Yes.
Ah, there we go.
That's not going in prepared not to.
That's not a predict, that's a, he's finished.
That's a prediction, isn't it?
There's nothing wrong with that.
Let's make a bet, guys.
What's going to be this, who's going to be the most inconsistent character of episode nine?
Oh, fuck.
I'm betting Kylo.
It's always Kylo.
It's Kylo in every film.
I was going to say Kylo too, yeah.
Oh no, we've-
I'm good, no bet.
I'm good again.
Nope, I'm evil.
We're not neutral.
But I'm nice.
We're not neutral anymore.
We're the worst.
Terrible reviews.
No, Kenobi and Chat said no theories allowed.
I'm so fresh off of Les Miserables.
Like, you can't beat them.
They literally, talking about how they're basing it of past
appearances.
So prediction is based on history.
That's all that's happening here if you wanted an explanation.
Someone in Chat just said, whole ghost is probably going to be the most inconsistent character.
Wholeest first ghost.
Oh my god.
Wholeest first.
Can you fucking imagine?
Oh man.
Jesus Christ.
The blandness of the Costner.
I said Costner was Kevin Costner and I was just like,
when it was all said and done, I, um, cough it up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's-
There was no contest.
Russell Crowe, as bland as he was, was still not as bad as Kevin Costner.
So thank you so much.
That's just-
No, I'm going to put it out of this a little bit.
D-Rig is kind of funny back and forth.
Yeah, it's just don't have the fucking swallowing their pride on
when their prediction, whatever.
See, I told you that guy did look like the dude from untangled.
You know what, Rags?
Can we do that, by the way?
Let's actually make a bet here.
If I'm going with Kylo, you have to go-
Fuck.
We should totally make-
Wholeest first ghost.
It's a good meme answer, but-
Yeah, if she started the film.
I mean, if you want, the rules are it has to be specific to the movie,
right?
You can't consider the other movies.
If you go with Kylo, I'll go with Rose Tico.
Really?
I mean, I want to make the bet happen.
Well, hey, let's do this.
Let's just go between Rose and Finn.
Yeah.
What, you're going to go with Finn?
I don't know.
I think that's a decent choice, because he's confusing as fuck as it is.
Yeah, Phasma's a good-
We don't know if Phasma's in it.
Oh no, if they don't resurrect Phasma again for 20 seconds.
But on a garbage shoot again, the most inconsistent for just episode nine.
I want Phasma to show up in the post credits.
That's what I want.
Dexter Jetz.
To be honest, for them to be, like, perceivably inconsistent,
they're going to have to have a lot of screen.
So you're looking at, yeah, Finn, Kylo, or maybe Rey, but Rey's pretty-
Well, Poe as well, he's a possibility.
I think Poe, they've kind of set up to be like the resistance leader.
Let's do it this way.
So you got, like you said, Kylo, Poe, Rose, Finn, and Rey.
So knock out Kylo.
Who is the most inconsistent out of those four?
What's your bet?
All right.
Because I think, yeah, I think it's pretty universal that Kylo will probably be inconsistent.
Nothing will make sense.
The most inconsistent with their previous behavior?
Yeah, let's say, considering the previous two films as well.
This is actually an interesting conversation to me.
I'm trying to figure out who it would be.
I'm not going to go with Rose because she's one note, pretty much.
I was thinking more specific to the film.
It's a possibility for Rey, but I have a feeling they're just going to stick to it being perfect.
Yeah, I really want her to do a fucking switcheroo.
I thought it was going to happen, but I really want her to be the Sith.
I want to go with Finn, personally.
Yeah, I think that's the best bet.
What do you want to go with, Rey?
It might be.
I'm going to go with Poe, because I bet in the next one, Poe is going to be like,
demanded that he is a Jedi.
Well, he can be a cover Jedi as well.
I'm like, he wants to like, wield a lightsaber.
Is that a serious coming out?
Because I'll put you on like, a little thing.
We'll just keep it on record.
This is not getting recorded.
No.
No.
This is on a podcast anyway.
You're streaming.
Oh, shit.
You're streaming.
I'll come back out.
We've not decided on if we're going to pay each other yet, but I'm not betting money.
We'll bet our pride.
I would rather randomly select a horse running down a track
and try to pick consistency with Star Wars character.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, Lando's in the film.
Oh, fuck, Lando.
Yeah, but for how long, it'll be another fucking...
It'll be a momentary cameo.
Yeah, but it could be ruined.
You'd never know.
They already fucking did it with the Han Solo movie.
We could meet him.
We could meet him and he could be balls deep in some toaster or something.
What's your pick, Ash?
Oh, fuck.
Is it Finn?
You did say.
Yeah, Finn is my gut instinct.
What do you think he's going to do?
Or how do you think he's going to flip-flop?
I think because they have nothing to do for him,
that they're going to invent some crazy plot line that might come back to Stormtrooper.
Finn, in my eye, he should have died.
Look, he should have died.
What about Hux?
I'm like, what's left for him?
I remember Hux is basically two different characters.
Well, no, no.
Remember, because Hux is basically two completely different characters between J.J. and Ryan.
He depends on which one they choose.
So, it's like a 50-50.
J.J.'s directing it and his Hux was different than Ryan's Hux.
Oh, yeah, is he the vindictive little brother character
or is he the fucking complete pushover with...
Comic relief character.
Yeah, is he an evil but competent, ruthless general
or is he just a slapstick comedy for other people to get thrown around the fucking command?
I might actually go with Hux, unironically.
No, I'm going to have to sell...
I'm going to go with just Kylo.
We're back to Star Wars, ladies and gentlemen.
You can't go to Kylo.
We're back to Star Wars.
Kylo's disqualified.
You know how Kylo is.
Fight, fight, fucking hope.
Yeah, okay.
So, we got me and Ashron Finn.
Alex is on Pearl Rags is on Hux.
And so, now we don't count as critics anymore.
Just so you guys know.
There we go.
We have a gentleman's agreement.
By the way, if you guys couldn't tell, I'm not neutral on The Last Jedi.
I'm not neutral either, unfortunately.
Oh, and you guys would hate Star Wars.
I forgot.
Oh, yeah.
I'm Hitler.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Wolf is emo Hitler, as I regularly see him refer to.
We need to remember this, because it's a year from now that we actually get to...
But I'll keep it on track, and I don't know, I'll pin something some way.
But I mean...
Don't be a liar to see the film.
Fuck it.
We should just ask.
We'll ask Wolf.
We'll ask every guest that comes on to just put their bet in as well.
It'll just be interesting.
Should we keep a chart?
Yeah, I mean, I'm writing it up, but we'll figure it out.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, just pin it in the Discord or something, in the Star Wars chat or something.
Did Jenna just make a joke about it?
She said, can I vote for Leia, be a non-consistent, because she's normally alive?
Do you really?
Would you be...
Oh, dude.
Inconsistent with the...
I mean, I think she's saying if they kill her off in Episode 9,
because she's supposed to be...
I thought she was going for an edgy joke with that.
So I just...
Honestly, I think Episode 9 just needs to start with Leia's funeral.
I don't think they're doing that.
I saw an article that said...
What's his name?
Oscar Isaac said that Leia's really important to the film,
and it's amazing what they've done with her or something.
Oh, bullshit.
Oh, boy.
So, because...
Yeah, I heard that they were re-editing scenes that they previously shot for
Jay to be in the new movie.
But what, have they just completely rewritten Episode 9 now to deal with that?
Yeah, it sounds like they're working the film around the actor
instead of working an actor around the story.
Guys, you're not being neutral.
You're not being critics.
That's disgusting.
Get baller.
Find me a single human.
Disgusting non-neutrals.
Find me a single human on Earth,
TLJ, that's going to go into Episode 9 neutral.
It's not possible.
It was never possible anyway.
And find me a human on Earth who's going to go see Episode 9
without seeing the other ones first.
Just picture the guy from Futurabi walking,
what do you think this movie's going to be like?
And he's like, I have no opinions, left or right, up or down.
And you're like, oh, do you like Star Wars?
Possibly.
But Star Wars is acceptable.
Okay.
Star Wars is a franchise.
I have nothing else.
I would like to consume energy.
This is a film, in my opinion.
So, anyway, do you guys really want to come back to this video?
Back to back to Shinobi 03.
That being said.
That's not good criticism, because it wasn't based on how you felt from the experience.
It was a joke from the looks of things, man.
I don't think it was.
Yeah, it was a joke.
And it was kind of funny.
And I don't even like the snout critic that much.
But I kind of think that was.
That was passive.
That was nothing.
Like, whatever.
Yeah.
Very uncertain.
It was a predetermined choice that wouldn't be affected if you go see it or not.
Maybe.
You don't know.
It's Yugi.
What is he wearing?
This is BTS outfit, I guess.
I don't know.
Oh, well, Yugi with his gimbap outfit.
Yes.
Well, look at that fucking hair first off.
It looks like a Pokemon.
Dude, I don't think anyone in the fairy cap can install other people's.
Yeah, I can.
Shots, fucking fire.
No, you're not allowed to.
I'm gatekeeping it right now.
No, you're not allowed to.
I'm gatekeeping for Yugi.
True critic if you're a fairy.
There we go.
You're not true degenerate.
Going through the experience with the assumption that it'll be bad
makes you blind to everything good about it.
Not true.
I thought that, again, we thought Homecoming was going to be bad,
and we ended up thinking it was pretty good.
So it doesn't translate at all.
You're wrong.
When you make your supposes.
What does this thing have to do with what he's talking about?
He's going over the problem with negativity and critics, I suppose.
Like this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know we haven't got to the bit where he's actually defending the film,
like where he's actually got a bit of saying,
oh, when people say this is wrong in the film,
they're actually that this is the right thing.
I know we haven't got that if ever, but this is just,
there's no hang of fruit.
Like, why is he picking a fight with like,
the style of critic fucking like saying,
I thought the film was going to be bad.
And then it might have been.
Oh, shit.
It's skipped a bit.
Make sure I have context.
17, 26.
Makes you blind to everything good about it.
And when you make your supposed review of it,
you point the wrong picture about it.
And when the people who had the same experience who were enjoyed.
But wait, sorry.
I'm assuming he wants us to read these.
I guess people flash it by that quick.
They just want you to assume that it just supports what they say.
As much as this was truly hilarious, I respectfully disagree.
I personally don't find any major flaws with this film.
Every time I watch it, I think the characters do have depth to them to keep me invested.
I also think the CGI was pulled off well and looks good.
The story was not sloppily paced.
The production design and music.
We're all done.
We're all well done.
Sorry, the works.
I'd rather watch Van Helsing here than Tom Cruise's The Mummy Anyday.
In fact, call me crazy, but I personally think Stephen Summers did a better job
at handling Universal monsters in this and in his Mummy films
than Universal themselves with the two attempts at the docking.
I mean, I agree with that statement.
If they're talking about Van Helsing, which I liked, I like that.
Yeah, like I told you before, I haven't seen it in ages.
So I really can't give an opinion.
I like if it is cheese.
Oh, yeah, it's a super cheese, but I really like it.
I remember like it is a film for even how stupid it is.
Oh, yeah.
Want to watch that tonight, Rags?
Yeah.
Oh, I've I actually I would unironically do that.
But I would say I would like talking about it.
I have to go in an hour.
I've been invited to a dinner.
So I will maybe be going in about an hour.
When would you be back from this dinner?
Um, it probably wouldn't be too long from the sounds of it.
But if you give me a file before I go, I can't do that.
If we're still alive, we're going to be busy because we got this podcast.
Like, it'll be fine anyway.
Yeah, we'll see.
We'll see.
Depends on when I get back.
That might actually work out in terms of you're the only one
who hasn't seen Jurassic Park, Fallen Kingdom.
And the other video we were supposed to be looking at today is an actual analysis
of the film.
And I say actual fully understanding that it's just the same as saying real.
But this isn't exactly what we're looking for with Fallen Kingdom, is it?
So, yeah.
So what he's highlighting here is someone who disagrees and that's fine.
So we're enjoying.
Oh, God, here we go.
Do you want to someone else read that out?
I can't actually see it because the mugs rock a wine.
Yeah, yeah.
It's fake.
It's werewolf and a vampire fighting each other.
Of course, it's fake.
No amount of technological wonders will be able to make me forget that those don't exist.
Those don't exist.
I swear sometimes you really are finicking on things that honestly, I don't even know.
It's a popcorn action fantasy movie about Dracula and Van Helsing with werewolves
and Frankenstein's monster.
Of course, it's different than the classics.
Classic movies from the 20s had no other choice but going through the character developments
or dramatic scenes with emotional outbursts since the tech and effects of the time was so shitty.
It's not needed to retell all the absolute minute details about these characters since
they're so well known by the cinema fans.
You can rock it all you want.
I'd rather build.
I'd rather watch this a movie.
I'd rather watch this movie than that Dracula 2002 or whatever sequel they made to Dracula 2001.
Not all the movies with Dracula can be on the level of FFC Dracula's.
Doesn't mean that Van Helsing isn't enjoyable.
Sorry, that's sweet.
The FFC is Francis Ford Coppola.
I mean, the problem is we probably shouldn't respond to this comment because I'm assuming
he's flashing it for a reason.
But all I'll say is that just because we're aware of the character of Dracula or something,
I would still want the character to be in the newer film, like in its own story,
because I don't know the specifics instead of just assuming he likes to drink people's blood, you know.
Yeah, and the first thing about it's fake is that yes, we understand that the movie isn't real,
but we would like it to be believable and consistent with itself.
I don't know the context of this.
This comment could be completely great in terms of a response to what the person said,
but I don't know.
Going aware invested in it end up watching your review.
They want to accept your criticism because you got things severely wrong and you're not
right.
But that's different.
Yeah, and all of these are from Van Helsing.
That's strange.
I guess he got.
Hang on.
So this is we're assuming this isn't a nostalgia critic, right?
So nostalgia critic.
I don't know.
Van Helsing.
Let's see if he's got a bad like ratio on it.
Well, I'll tell you, man, you get negative ratios when your research is bad.
You really do.
Yeah.
So a lot of the top comments are basically just saying,
Oh, look at that.
You got really not your best work critic.
You're judging this movie based on what you wanted it to be, not what it's trying to be.
So we could do that next time if you want me and rags.
We'll make sure we see Van Helsing and then we'll watch nostalgia to remove it.
Just for the fun.
The thing is, I'm I'm totally open for that movie being terrible, but I just know that
when I saw it, I really liked it.
I'll make a note.
Would you would chat be interested in that?
Or do you hate the starter critic enough that you wouldn't want us to cover him?
I am interested in seeing people's response to that because everybody hated us covering
cinema sins.
And I was just like, I mean, we don't have a bug to want to cover him that much.
So if you prefer, not let us.
Yeah.
If they don't want to see it, then I don't want to cover it.
If it's just something that the chat and the audience really wouldn't like, then we can do
something else.
The one thing that was good about us covering cinema sense was we were able to explain why
we don't cover cinema sense.
That's why I like that we did it.
At least with this one, we might be able to explain why we don't cover a nostalgic critic.
But we're getting a lot of people saying that you should.
So yeah.
All right, then me and Rags will sort that out.
Well, we've got a couple of things in the pipeline for what we're planning.
So that's actually a good thing.
What was the other thing we just suggested as another potential effect?
I was going to make a note.
I can't remember what we said.
Anybody?
Chat, help me.
Did I suggest something else?
Or did I?
Why are we here?
How did we end up in this place?
I could have sworn I suggested something else, but
destroy the child.
Do you like what you see, little girl?
Oh, a quiet place.
We said that we'd check out cinema wins on a quiet place.
I remember now.
Thank you, chat.
I appreciate that.
Yay.
So cinema wins a quiet place.
I'm going to wait for Wolf to be back for that one because he hates that movie.
Do you know he planned to actually make a deeper analysis of it because he said
that despite ranting the shit out of it, he had missed like a shit ton of problems with it.
And I was like, oh, that'll be, that'll be kick ass.
But maybe he'll get around to it after seeing the cinema wins video.
Who knows?
Anyway, let's rewind just a little bit and keep going.
And when the people who had the same experience, who were enjoying,
were invested in it, end up watching your review, they want to accept you.
Do we read this or?
I think we have to skip this one.
Besides, these aren't exactly he's just displaying people who disagreed and have
counterarguments, which, by the way, there's a there's a lot of scenario.
I feel so condescending explaining this.
You can have a reviewer review a film badly and have good references.
You can have a reviewer review a film badly and have piss pull references.
And then you can have the vice versa for both of those.
All of these things are things that happen.
The citations I have in my reviews, I am relatively confident of, but I will make mistakes.
But the angle for me is that I really do work my ass off to get it right as opposed to a reaction.
And a lot of people do reaction reviews where they say things like,
I hated it when, what did Jared say?
He hated it when Kylo, no, when Ray killed Han.
Ray killed Han.
Which he's, of course, going to recognize that that's not quite accurate once he sees the scene
again, but you could say that's a bad citation.
And these it's it's complicated.
It's all over the place.
This does not this is not an argument against negative reviews.
If if negative means you've reviewed it as being a piece of poor media.
Which I'm not comfortable with that anymore.
It's really annoying me.
It's like you're being mean to the movie.
It's the start stop.
Because you got things severely wrong.
And you're not representing what you're criticizing in a fair look.
Yeah, it would be bad if they're not being fair unless that's for entertainment purposes,
which is kind of what CinemaSins argues for.
I just don't think he's that funny.
And I don't think that's entirely his goal.
But if you had let's say you play a character who's like a monster who lives in a cave
and you review movies and you hate every literally hate everything.
Then yeah, you might have to start embellishing what happens in the film.
Like saying, I don't know, Godzilla isn't even that loud or something stupid.
But you're going to want to try to be a little bit more creative than that.
So it's contextual.
It's always contextual.
I mean, we've got a pizza reviewing films here.
You know how this is ridiculous.
And by doing so, it only makes you look like you have a personal vendetta against the people
who made what you're criticizing.
And that should instantly make these reviews invaluable.
So I was going to say, like, yeah, you might you might do because if you're a big fan of,
say, I hate to keep bringing up, but you're a fan of Star Wars and then you see the last Jedi,
all of a sudden, yeah, you are kind of annoyed.
I remember like, oh, people on a movie circle jerk keep saying like how
are the Star Wars fans like hate the films the most?
And it's like, well, yeah, because they're fans because they're invested in this shit.
They care about it.
Why would somebody who doesn't give a shit about Star Wars get angry that the last
Jedi was bad?
What would the you need?
You need a bias to feel emotion.
Yeah.
Oh, I see people in work talk about it and just and then they take the piss and they
make a few jokes, especially about the fucking alien with a milk and all that.
They make a few jokes, but they don't care.
They don't get wound up.
And it's like, all right, you know, obviously, there are people that do.
And I think they need to calm down a little bit.
Most of them, I would say, probably just doing it.
Well, they're just they're not overacting.
But, you know, they're being hyperbolic with it, aren't they?
You know, but then even still, people who don't care about those movies won't notice
all of the flaws because it's not in their wheelhouse.
Like they just the whole ridiculous, you know, how many how many of you guys, including
people in chat, how many of you watch a video where someone goes, by the way, this doesn't
make sense when you consider this as this and you go, oh, yeah, oh, you're right.
That happens.
So as for this whole bias thing, is he is he aware that it goes the other way?
That somebody absolutely adores the work of, let's say,
Edgar Wright and says everything Edgar Wright makes is amazing.
That doesn't count.
No matter what.
He does really fringe people that are just fucking retarded.
They don't exist.
Like, if you're going to be so heavily influenced by one reviewer's opinion, then you're a fucking
idiot.
Like, go form your own opinion.
Longshank brings up a good point.
If you couldn't see the title of this video, what would you what would you assume the title is?
I don't like reviewers.
Consider the first guy versus the world.
Consider the first 10 minutes, though.
It's like, oh, yeah, there was some stuff about dinosaurs.
There was also a skit with like figurines talking about.
Oh, God, that was this video.
He goes over tangents worse than we have so far.
But this is a video you should you should know better from the beginning
because you weren't fair to them from the beginning.
Okay, well, I mean, you don't even know if it's any better.
I didn't.
That's true.
I haven't read a word of it.
I'm gonna have to keep pausing every once in a while or even see the preview.
Whatever the opening tomorrow, I'm going to turn in the worst review anybody has ever read.
And I'm going to close your play.
Would you like to know why?
Because I hate you and everyone you represent.
Yeah, that's a biased critic.
But they exist.
You did not need to prove the concept that there's such a thing as a person who is biased.
Well, I didn't believe they existed until you showed me this fictional.
I really wish he would have showed us a real person.
The irony here is he could have actually got an actual critic that was being biased.
These are real people.
See, this fake person said it.
It's like, why is he spending time in his video proving the when no one.
I'm sure these people exist.
Tell me who they are.
This is the thing.
Show me an example of them and then show me an example of them in relation to the subject
video, which is drug parking park, not Birdman or Star Wars or fucking Marvel, DC,
all this other shit that you've been going off on.
Stay focused.
Like this is such an absolute nightmare of a video.
At least when it started out, it was talking about dinosaurs.
Also, wartime consigliere's just pointed out that this critic changes her mind by the end of the film.
Spoilers.
So that kind of the narrative he's using here counters his own narrative.
She went into it with a negative viewpoint.
So she's not a real critic.
That's the thing.
She proves our point before she proves his.
Oh, it's fantastic.
I've said it before this.
If you go back to my Dark Souls series, anybody who's seen it,
I said, I think it's the first rule of like bad YouTube videos.
They disprove their own points with their own references.
It's like one of the best things that happened.
She might have a point, by the way, depends on what she's trying to say here.
If, say, for example, somebody's running an operation that's bad for a particular
demographic and you're trying to stop it and your negative reviews could do it,
you could argue yourself from a moral position.
It just depends on how accurate it is.
I suppose it wouldn't make you a good critic.
Maybe he's right on that.
Stop giving them too much better for the damage.
I'm trying to explore with new odds.
Hey, real art.
I like that real world is popping in there.
Yeah, real.
You're just an idiotic nitpicker and you don't understand it because you're not a true fan.
How is he how has he played this whole thing and managed to keep the video up?
I'm impressed.
So not a big business because he's a small channel and he hasn't.
If it's automated, if it's automated with content ID, the videos normally stay up.
A lot of the times they just get claimed for money to run their own ads.
A lot of the time it just takes mine down, but it might be this.
I guess.
Yeah, it depends on who claims you.
Sometimes it'll knock you off worldwide.
All the claimants who set up with content ID essentially, they pick a rule and it's like
you're allowed to keep it up with our ads.
You're allowed to keep it up with no ads or it gets taken down or yeah.
So whoever owns that property, if it was content ID is allowed him to use it.
Sorry, get more inspiration from chat.
Ratatouille, the story of a fucking critic who's an asshole and hates everything.
And then at the end, thanks to a rat's food.
Every time we talk about Ratatouille, it just reminds me how amazing that film
is.
It's just funny because the story of people who go in biased, getting their minds changed is like.
That's like a fundamental thing that happens in humanity.
Yeah, it matches so many storylines and he's like, no, no.
To come in here and pretend you can write.
And besides, by the way, if there's a film you think is literally perfect,
would you not want to hear from somebody who hated it?
Even if they said they were biased, like they open with saying,
by the way, I hated this before I'd even seen it.
You want to know what they're going to say.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Some people do.
But then it's all opening up a discussion and, you know, arguing your case.
It's not about whether you've determined beforehand, whether you liked it or disliked it.
About the conversation.
Like people are allowed to have differing opinions.
And this guy seems to think that if you don't praise everything and you don't go into things
thinking they're going to be great, then you're some kind of asshole or an idiot.
Somehow these people that go get neutral.
Yeah.
And then he's got the moral high ground.
Because why?
Like his dinosaur movie.
Because people did like his dinosaur movie.
You're not a fucking critic because you went in wanting to hate it.
But none of the examples showed that.
Well, none of them will, though, because all he's trying to do is invalidate people
before he even has to bring up anything they've actually said, because that is way easier.
This would've been way better at the tail end of his assessment of everybody, wouldn't it?
Well, you think that, but we haven't seen the main body of his argument yet.
It might be worse.
It's only part one.
A few more hours.
It's a neuro propaganda piece without coming through me first.
Another thing that critics needs to understand that not every movie is criticized equally.
Okay.
Not every movie is criticized equally.
Correct.
Well, no, it won't be, will it?
It's literally impossible to criticize every movie the same way,
because they'll have different things in them.
Yes, Mike.
What does he mean?
His school play will not be judged with the same rigor as a multi-billion dollar
international film conglomerate putting out a blockbuster AAA level.
How well does Jurassic World, Fallen Kingdom, portray dinosaurs?
How well does Star Wars portray dina-
Wait.
That's the difference.
Yeah, I think the crayon drawing portray dinosaurs.
Yeah, I think the, well, yeah.
How many women can you get in Star Wars compared to how many
cat in Jurassic Park?
That's what I want to know.
Yeah.
What he's highlighting here is genre as opposed to anything.
I don't know.
For example.
Oh, geez.
You're all just jealous of my jetpack.
Science fiction, proper literature, tut-tut.
What?
Is this the thing where he's taken one frame from a comic and we can't understand it,
or is this supposed to send a message here?
I think the message is that.
I mean, a lot of the times it's hard for a science fiction film to get properly received,
I'll bet.
Well, like, respected by literature that's more highbrow, maybe.
Yeah.
And he's saying, you're all just jealous of my jetpack,
because they're saying the jetpack makes it so that they can't enjoy it, maybe.
Yeah, if you have sweet battles and blasters and lasers and things like that,
it might be taken with a certain-
It's a pretty sweet jetpack.
Well, now we're talking about people.
Oh, sorry, God.
Oh, basically, just like a lot of times, you know, the Academy Awards,
a lot of the times, you know, dramas and, you know, you just sort of know that,
you know, oh, this film might have been great,
but there's no way that Krampus is going to, you know,
win a lot of awards because it's a silly movie.
Oh, this is it.
Like, he's all about, like, people who want to dismiss things
just because of, like, the certain content, or it's like,
well, you know, obviously, for me, like, I don't watch, like, you know, romantic comedies,
like, you know, not because I think they're all bad,
just because it's not for me, so I don't care.
But I'm not, well, I'm not making videos.
Either way, but if I was, I wouldn't be making videos about that.
Anyway, I don't watch these romantic comedies because they're shit.
Did you know that?
You wouldn't say the newest romantic comedy is terrible.
Yeah, what is it?
What do you care?
Apart from, like, you know, the hacks, like, you know, like Polygon and all,
who, like, pretend to play games and review them.
Most people who do review stuff generally did watch the whole thing or play it
and wanted wanted to, you know?
So, like, you know, like, one way or another, they're not dismissing it, you know?
So, who would be on about again with these people?
Like, like, who, in that photo, all the picture there,
who are the people tat-tat in on YouTube for Jurassic World?
Who?
Yeah, that's a good question.
Well, assuming that's his point, someone in Chad just said,
I think what he's trying to say is just go in with an open mind.
And it's like, if he just said that, it would be fine.
Yeah, that would have taken 10 seconds.
But he's finding weird ways to argue that he's making statements.
He's finding the worst ways to say it to the point where we don't know what he's saying,
and perhaps even the opposite of what he's trying to say.
I love that, Alex.
It's like, who's the astronaut?
Who are the people saying this?
What does proper literature mean?
What are the arrows that explain your meme?
If the critic is a fan of the sci-fi genre, but not so with romance,
he can criticize a romance movie the same he does to sci-fi movie,
because he's not as well dealt in it as the other.
Yeah, and guess what?
People who fucking do that shit, or when it comes back to video games, for example,
if they're covering games that are outside their preferred genre,
normally they'll just admit, they'll go,
oh, you know, I don't normally play these kind of games,
but, you know, like, for whatever reason.
That doesn't make them not a critic, is it?
Yeah, yeah, and again, as long as you account for the biosomes,
everyone's fine with it.
Because if you say you don't like Star Wars,
and then you watch a Star Wars film and you go,
well, I hate Star Wars anyway.
If you have a guy who says, I only read books,
I hate anything on a screen,
and it's not because of, like, some medical thing,
he literally just thinks he can't believe it,
I'd be like, okay, I'd still be interested to hear you take on
something like, well, a movie I love,
just to see what he says, as opposed to,
and I don't automatically go, nah, biased.
Like, you know, why not give it a listen, but hey, you just...
You'll still be curious.
And this is the thing, I think his proof here was just that
if you love science fiction and you hate rom-coms,
then you're gonna judge them differently,
and it's like, yes.
Yeah, that's just a truth.
That's just a truth.
I don't, yeah, like, water is wet,
oxygens are particles, I would have, yes.
Reviewing a movie of a genre or a source
that he doesn't fully understand,
without understanding why they work like that.
Well, he did mind it.
You don't understand dinosaur movies, so there we are.
If you're at the point where you can't tell if it's a plot hole,
then maybe you shouldn't say it's a plot hole.
If you are sure it's a plot hole, then say it's a plot hole.
But what is the hard thing here?
It doesn't make any sense either,
so if it's a really good story that you don't understand,
then it's not a really good story because it's failed.
Yeah, because you don't understand.
This is a weird dichotomy between it's a plot hole
or it's something that I don't understand.
In Patrick Willems' video, he says,
I want to first go over things that aren't plot holes,
and one of them is plot contrivances, which I agree with.
And then he says, another thing that's not plot holes,
when people get information wrong, and it's like,
okay, well, yes, that's just when they get information wrong.
You know what I mean?
What you've just highlighted isn't, it's like this is self-evident.
I'm sorry, you need experience.
That's not...
You may as well have said, it's not a problem when people
think it's a problem and they're wrong.
It's like, well, yeah, by definition.
Water is not wet, it makes things wet.
Is that, I've heard that from a couple of people.
Is that typically accepted?
Water isn't wet.
Because the water, what comprises water is usually...
The water makes things wet. Water is not wet.
Is that true?
Water is typically wet because it's surrounded by other particles of water.
The item that becomes wet.
No, because the water is not making the other water around it wet.
If someone splashes you with just water,
and it makes you wet, then it was wet to begin with,
because it's providing wet onto other things.
If someone splashes...
No, because you'll fucking talk about bricks or something.
But if someone splashes you with water, the water makes you wet.
But the water wasn't dry.
Yes, though a water cannot be dry or wet.
But would you agree that as a state,
everything is either dry, wet, or somewhere in between?
It has to be either.
It's either dry or wet.
So water isn't dry, therefore it's wet?
No, it's neither.
It's neither?
It's neither.
It's not even possible!
What does it feel like they should be discussed in a white room somewhere?
I mean, this happens on Efap all the time.
It's when the video has basically lost any connection to all of us.
Just floated away in some ridiculous conversation.
So when it rains and people say it's wet outside, they're lying.
Because it can only be wet once they're well said.
No, that's not correct.
I'm reading chapter responses.
Yes, everything out there is wet because the water is on them.
And you'll get wet if you step outside.
The wetness doesn't exist without the object because the water is just water.
Yeah, exactly.
It's wet, dry, or water.
Yeah, well, I would need to call it wet itself.
It's one of those weird things that you don't normally think about.
What if there's ice?
What if there's a piece of ice that has water on it?
Ice can make things wet.
No, you take the fucking ice and you fucking throw it out.
Perhaps the greatest Efap in history.
Well, ice and water are different things.
Is fire hot?
The same thing.
They're just in different states.
Is fire hot or does fire make things hot?
So ice is just hard water.
The fact you have to qualify a difference shows that they're different things.
Yeah, sure.
But so is ice that's wet?
Wait, wait, wait.
Is ice rags?
Is fire hot or does it make things hot?
Fire is hot.
Because heat and wetness don't make it to the same thing.
Yes, you can measure heat by the speed of the particles in something, plus fire is class.
I want a physics teacher.
Anyway, Jurassic World.
Water is wet.
Wet means covered or saturated with water or another liquid.
But typically, water particles will be surrounded by water particles.
Yes, but they're not wet because of the water particles.
You just said surrounded by water.
What if you mix water with another liquid?
Does that other liquid become wetter by the water being on it?
Other other liquids besides water can make things wet.
So what?
However, however, mercury is typically a liquid, but it does not make things wet.
No, no, no, we're not bringing.
No, we're not bringing the chemical like bounces off shit.
No, no, no, no.
Somebody find the play button.
You made me interested in this.
Genuinely, because I use it as a logical sort of counter.
Water is wet.
And if I'm wrong, I'd rather not use it.
Like the sky is blue.
I would not say that water is wet.
I would say the sky is blue, though, because technically color doesn't exist.
Yeah.
Oh, no.
That's opening up its own can of worms.
Yeah, you show me right up your ass or back up it, please.
But yeah, covered or saturated with water.
Surely water counts as being saturated and covered in water because it is.
No, one is not wet.
Well, too bad definitions disagree with you.
What is it that makes the sky blue, though, the way light refracts through?
It's our perception of the way that light is refracted.
So it's in our minds and not actually up in the...
Correct.
So it's our opinion.
Essentially, color as a share is a mutually understood phenomenon.
It is subjective.
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah, right.
Covered or saturated with water.
That's the definition.
Water is covered in water.
Typically, if you have a glass of water, it's covered in water.
But another one, one particle of water does not change any
property of the other piece of water.
It doesn't matter.
The definition is covered in water.
Yeah.
Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
Water, water isn't but surrounded by water.
Once you come into contact with water, you become wet.
Until then, water is liquid and you're drunk.
You're drunk.
I submit that a particle of water surrounded by other particles of water therefore makes it wet.
Yes, because wetness is the ability of a liquid to adhere to the surface of a solid.
So when we say that something is wet, we mean that the liquid is
sticking to the surface of the material.
So we agree.
We agree to disagree.
No, I'm on board with this.
I will move on with saying water is wet as a...
Water is not wet.
According to Google definitions, it is.
Google definitions, you should not use as a...
You use them all the time.
Sometimes, but not for every...
Well, when they agree with you, is that what you're saying?
No, not necessarily.
No, no, not necessarily.
It depends on what it is.
Because Google normally gives you colloquial definitions.
It depends on how technical you want to get.
Well, okay.
What if I go with Oxford?
All right.
I would have to...
I don't know what the Oxford one would be.
Give me a moment.
Oh, no.
Because what's strange is that if you type in Oxford dictionary,
it autofills the first thing is Oxford dictionary wet.
Oxford dictionary, wet, adjective, covered or saturated with water.
So I guess Google grabbed it from Oxford.
When it's covered, how much does it have to be covered to be considered?
Like 70, 80 percent.
I mean, yeah, desert could have a droplet of water on it.
It doesn't mean the desert is dry or wet.
Single particles.
This is where practical friendship ends.
It's dry because it doesn't have wetness.
I mean, I'm okay with the desert one,
because you could just argue from a sense of like...
Yeah, it's free of moisture or liquid.
It's not wet or moist.
More than 50 percent is dry than it's typically dry.
This is getting into like philosophical levels.
It's relative to what it normally would be.
The word saturated was suggested it'd be more than half, 50 percent.
That's true.
And covered as well.
You wouldn't be covered in water if it was a droplet on a desert, would it?
I am getting really hungry.
Just four times.
So wait, wait.
So just to clarify, Rags, you agree with the Oxford definition then?
I agree with the...
Here, let me go back to what it was.
It's okay to agree.
Neither of you are going to be wrong.
Just go with it.
Why?
I hold to the idea that wetness is a property
that is given to things by water or other liquids.
Hashtag team wet.
And the liquids themselves do not possess that wetness.
This is going to be on Twitter tomorrow as a controversy.
You know that.
I was going to say, but Rags, your definition would leave you open to the consistency of
what a liquid is halfway becoming a solid.
At what point is it allowed to become wet?
Only the parts that are liquid.
It's bullshit.
That doesn't make sense.
The liquids would make the solid parts wet.
That's why you can look at two pieces of ice.
And one is mid melt and the other one is completely.
What I'm saying is that you've drawn a line that a solid can get wet,
but a wet can't get wet.
That means there's a point of change.
No, no, no.
It's not that a wet can get wet.
That's kind of...
No, it's not that a wet can get wet.
Wetness is a property that's applied to things.
Can a liquid get wet?
You need to get into the quantum physics side of the argument and say,
is both wet and un-wet at the same time in many different dimensions.
You can't sweat DDS YouTube.
No, you can't wet.
You can't be wet and un-wet at the same time.
Wait, can you wet a liquid?
No, an object is wet or not until you observe it.
And by observing it, are you making it?
No, I don't think that observing something makes it wet.
Because something can be wet that's not observed.
But you don't have to play it, please.
Last question, can a liquid be wet?
Is it possible?
Can a liquid be wet?
Yes.
No.
That's what you mean, no.
We'll have to schedule a fully fab debate for whether water is truly wet.
Back to discussing whether or not...
Someone knows whether or not a plot hole
is a thing.
Yeah, so if a critic actually sells you bad information,
they completely screw up what actually happens in a film,
to try and sell it as worse than it was,
then yeah, they've fucked up.
They're doing damage to the movie, in a way.
Yeah, on the same opposite side as when they're paid off to give a positive review,
and then they just lie a mislead.
You don't want people fluffing a movie up to look better than it actually was,
because that's just as bad.
They're going to be getting sales for something that's arguably faulty.
Yeah, there's been instances in the past where I've noticed
certain films that are sustaining 100% on a Rotten Tomatoes.
Critics will go in and deliberately lower their review score
just to bring it down off the 100 mark,
and that's just...
What the fuck?
What's the deal with that?
How can you let your opinion of something be affected by everyone else's opinion of it?
That doesn't make any...
Someone in the chat asked if Rhino Milk was wet.
We brought this up with...
I can't remember what eFap was,
but someone was getting pedantic about some film that we were covering.
I was like, you'll never be able to outpedant the eFap podcast.
We will go to the extreme lengths to discuss anything.
Next time, we'll discuss whether poop is considered a solid or liquid,
and at what point it changes, depending on consistency.
Depends on the diet, honestly.
And can poop be wet?
I can guarantee you that poop can be wet.
God, this poor guy's video...
If he watches this video, he's gonna be like,
why were they talking about water and...
Well, then we're just gonna turn it around,
or why are you talking about 90% of the shit you talked about?
Yeah, you know what?
A public apology for people who really wanted us to cover this video
rather than talking about where the water's wet.
I do.
We're getting back to it.
It's not bad.
Trippy.
Not one I'd watch.
I don't accept the apology.
The implication with that last quote being that
CinemaSins spoiled the entire movie for the person,
which robbed it of a potential sale while misrepresenting it.
True.
And the context for Bob Vids' video is criticizing CinemaSins,
and I'm sure Bob Vids would agree that the reverse can take place.
And that that would be bad, too.
So, despite CinemaSins...
Yeah, you can possibly be peaceful to positive...
I mean, if...
If me, Wolf Enriks, all released a video saying,
you have to see Fallen Kingdom, it's the greatest film ever,
we will generate at least a couple of sales for that film.
Hmm.
Well, I think the thing is with this, especially,
is that he's picking this argument to defend,
well, a multi-billion dollar film, anyway, or franchise.
And it's just like, it's not like a tiny indie film where,
like, oh, if one big person on YouTube says it's shit,
nobody watches it, and then it kills thousands of dollars of revenue
that this person or this indie company can have made.
I can get that to a degree, but again,
that's like, you know, if they made a shit film,
it's a shit film, too bad, you know?
But it's...
Well, my overall say is like, it is context.
What's the context for every one of these?
If your point is, CinemaSins will often misrepresent a film
to the point where people think it's bad
when they have no idea how good it is.
Yes, but that's his video.
What are you trying to say in your video?
Yeah, and honestly, that's their prerogative, anyway,
if the audience chooses not to go see or see a film
based off of their favourite YouTuber.
That's entirely up to them.
That's true.
But if they were convinced that these were the facts,
if you know what I mean, in the same way
that Joseph Anderson sold Soma down the fucking river,
you know, it's like, but that's just...
I know, I know, I know.
Well, I even only wish that audiences are perceptive and, you know,
well, I don't see other people's opinions on it,
but, you know, well, not everyone's got all the time
in the world to do that shit.
I understand that, you know?
Yeah, he keeps referencing this.
It's insistence that they're not reviewers.
A significant portion of their audience
is using their Everything Wrong with series as review
to inform themselves about the quality of films.
And by the way, all these comments were taken
from the Everything Wrong with video for Get Out,
one of the best films to come out in the past few years.
Oh yeah, that's where I have to disagree with Bob Vids
because Get Out is...
I remember disagreeing with him when I was watching this.
The problem with Get Out, just watch ER's video
instead of me going through all the arguments for it,
but film doesn't make much sense.
It's got loads of elements of it that are good, I suppose.
I enjoyed watching it, but it wasn't one of the best films
of the past few years.
Yeah, I mean, that's a bit of a reach.
Maybe if it came out this year.
And then we stuck out into the awkward...
Well, again, because I said about context,
which is like, you know, Bob Vids is like,
it's one of the best films ever.
It's like, by what metric?
Yeah.
Your own or...?
It's like, stand aside, the Shawshank Redemption.
Fucking...
Here comes Get Out, a very relevant topical movie
about racial tensions.
Don't know about you, but that feels pretty gross to me.
I hate cinema sins, by the way.
Even more so than...
Wow, it sounds like you're biased towards his videos
and that you're unable to neutrally judge them.
Yeah, that's not very neutral to me.
This video is just crumbling under itself.
The dumb askartic and his awful channel.
I had them so much that I feel dirty just mentioning them.
Cheers.
After all the shit you just threw a fucking wolf
for referring to the nebulous writers,
as in he doesn't actually have a name,
and you're going after an actual guy here.
Wait, an individual sentence?
Like that you feel dirty talking about them.
That's being neutral.
So you're saying, be neutral and don't bully individuals
because of their work.
And what does he do?
Go straight in and does the exact fucking opposite
of both of those things.
Hypocrite.
Like if you didn't even just say it.
You're a hypocrite.
As an example here.
For they are the best example of everything wrong
with internet criticism.
Cinema sins is bad for film criticism.
Stop fucking stealing this guy's video.
He should have just re-uploaded Bob Vids' video.
Yeah, you should have just directed people to it.
Stop playing everything from this.
People who haven't seen the movie
and everything wrong with is based on
can be legitimately misled about its quality,
as I've pointed out.
A lot of people, including CinemaSins,
consider everything wrong with to be review,
at least in part, which is misrepresentation,
but also contributes to teaching YouTube at large
that criticism should be judged by its entertainment value
rather than the merit of its arguments.
CinemaSins is bad for YouTube.
It touts CinemaSins as a success story
through recommendations despite its falsehoods.
CinemaSins serves to teach YouTubers
not to spend time crafting their content
and instead turn to video marketing tactics,
cranking out low-effort clickbait videos
to maximize engagement and therefore profits.
CinemaSins shows its audience that facts are overrated
and can be easily excused with satire and comedy,
which undermines other content on YouTube
that's more thoughtful and meaningful.
I don't even feel the need to pause.
It's just, what he's saying is very applicable to CinemaSins.
This is part of why we don't cover them
because they're just so inefficient
at the task they're trying to achieve.
You're not going to get a good argument out of it.
You're just going to instantly just go,
I wouldn't agree with it or just dismiss it quite quickly.
But then the looming question,
what does this have the fuck to do with Jurassic Park?
Apparently.
Well, this is the thing.
Are we, are we, you know, me, Wolf and everyone else,
are we the CinemaSins of Jurassic Park full of kingdom?
Is that...
No.
Is that what he's saying? I don't know.
Like he's got, he's got like three and a half minutes
to bring this back around somehow.
CinemaSins is bad for critical thinking and intellectual honesty.
I agree.
People often won't question CinemaSins or content like it
if it has even a sliver of entertainment value.
I guess we're going to talk about war until we get to,
you know, Wolf and stuff.
Yeah, it's like some people will probably like go back to talking about war.
There's nothing to respond to.
And it's many, many contradictions.
CinemaSins serves as a lesson that people can say...
What has to talk about in Bob's video on it?
Like, like right now, anyway, you know.
Bob is specifically targeting CinemaSins.
This guy is targeting a fucking, a wide net of reviewers.
Critics on mass.
Well, he's just reaching at anything.
And it would have been like he's just reaching.
Want and explain it away later as a joke or...
It's funny he's using Bob Vids as a cudgel against people
who didn't like fallen kingdom.
Gotcha now.
Satire or all of the...
It's funny because I could have made a video criticizing Shinobi
and playing clips from Bob Vids.
The exact same clips.
Literally, I'd have been like,
this is the problem with criticism.
People like Shinobi, be like, oh man.
Be above.
As if these concepts are just get out of criticism free cards
and not tools for crafting art.
Hell, I hate them so much that I'm not even going to show
or even include their fallen kingdom footage in this entire video.
Jeez, that sounds neutral.
I wish he would have shown something relevant instead.
Like someone that you're really criticizing.
Oh, Rags, we got three minutes left.
I'm sure he's going to bring it around.
Yeah, I'm sure he'll crank it out.
They are that bad of a channel.
Sorry, so Sved Sadstrom said,
I am subbed to CinemaSins, but I don't why.
They don't why.
It's not like I even watch it anyway, because why should I?
And while we're on the sub...
Oh, no, there's Bayard Wolves.
Oh, look, he's even got me down there with The Last Jedi.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Big phone pic of you now.
Yeah, two for.
Yeah, this will be interesting.
What's he got to say about me?
Project of these problematic reviews.
Here's another thing that needs to stop.
Long nitpicky summarizations of movies on the...
Why? Yeah.
Why?
Why does that need to stop?
Opening night.
Opening night?
Mine came out like a more than a week after,
and it got taken down several times.
We need less effort.
The fact that you threw nitpicky in there,
it's like, hmm, how many of my questions were nitpicks
and not structural errors?
Play that again when the thumbnails come up.
Channel.
Plus, it's not like I even watch it anyway,
because why should I?
And while we're on the sub of these...
So, he hasn't even watched your video.
Look at the progress.
What I will say is sometimes that can be tismy.
Like, it can just be a cash-in thing.
It's not...
I can't, but generally, what I notice is that generally,
it only fucks up when you've watched the whole thing.
It will show where the progress is wrong,
but it shouldn't be trusted, generally.
It's very strange.
He may not have only seen that much.
He may have seen the whole thing.
We don't really know.
Well, I mean, judging from the fact...
He watched Will's video.
He did.
Problematic reviews.
Here's another...
Dude, no.
I mean, I don't want to say this,
because it's kind of unfair,
but I'm assuming he loved Wolf's video,
because Wolf was an easy target
to bring in the insults side of it.
To be like,
look how toxic Wolf's being
when he uses these insults,
because...
Like, sure.
Is he wrong?
Well, this is the thing.
A lot of people who don't like Wolf
will ignore his arguments
and focus on his insults.
That's how...
It's just the easiest way to discredit someone.
You know, you can tell me you don't like his content
because he's too aggressive or cruel or whatever,
and I should be like,
fine, whatever.
But if you're going to tell me
he doesn't make good arguments because,
and then you throw it in a thing
where he says,
you're an idiot.
I'd be like,
okay, but what do you say before that?
Yeah, what about the other hour
and five minutes?
Yeah.
Like, what did he say then?
The man makes arguments.
Just because he throws insults
doesn't mean he doesn't.
But is that...
Does he honestly think
we're supposed to believe
that that's one hour,
six minutes and 37 seconds of him
just slinging insults
with no, you know, critical foundation?
Well, you can only handle
10 minutes of your video,
so you can do anything with that.
And to think,
I fully edited mine.
Damn you, Wolf.
Stealing all my viewers.
Think that needs to stop.
Long nit-picking summarizations
of movies on their opening night.
Long summarization.
Again, more opening night.
I'm not sure where he's going from.
Doesn't make any sense.
I will gladly encourage people
to be more thorough
than quick in off the cuff.
Yeah.
Especially for its reviews.
Oh, God, please don't tell me
he's about to say that
these are the people
we should be like.
Please don't.
Want to give a quick five
to 10 minutes thoughts of the movie?
That's fine.
Oh, why why content police?
Yeah.
Why is five to 10 minutes fine?
What why?
Well, here this is very,
it's very simple.
All you got to say is
you have two reviews.
One is four minutes and 52 seconds.
The other one is five minutes
and seven seconds.
Which one is better?
Well, we are we have
already established criteria.
So his answer,
if it isn't the second one,
if he's if he's not going to say
the latter is better
because it crosses in between
the five to 10 minute threshold.
Then he defeats his own argument.
But making a movie
learn summarization
the movie pointing out
every single God forbid
we fucking go in depth.
It's very simple.
How how long should a
how long should a video be?
It should be long enough.
Well, he's made.
I think this selection
comes to four hours
or something more than that.
His his video here.
So that's too long.
Shouldn't be too long.
Yeah, but too long.
He split them up.
He's too long.
Because yeah, even even this video
breaks his breaks
the rule for reviews.
Yeah, it should have been.
Responses, maybe those
operate on different rules.
Should have been five to 10 minutes.
He did it wrong.
The thing is not to recommend that.
Why?
Because these in-depth reviews
are dependent on the reviewer's memory.
And unless you have a really,
really strong.
What what?
No.
What?
First off, no.
Obviously, you have to remember
what's happening.
Obviously.
However, there can be some things
that it depends on what topics
being discussed
and how at length and in depth
you want to get in that discussion.
It's also possible that they had access
to the film
while they were reviewing it.
God forbid people have access
to the film they're reviewing.
I can't believe it.
So I'm going to give him massive
benefit of the doubt here
and talk about how you get a review
from from John, Bill and Dave.
And John focuses on the intro being stupid.
And then he skips over
most of the middle
and then he gets to the end.
He says it was shit.
And then and then Bill says
the intro was crap,
but the middle part,
that's the part we really need
to dig into so bad.
And then Dave does the third option,
obviously.
And so you put all three of them
together and you get closer
to a complete description
of what happens in the film.
And you could say,
well, it's based on
what they personally remembered.
And that's fine,
but that's not actually a better thing.
The fact that you're seeing a review
that skips parts
because they forgot it.
What the hell are you advocating for?
What?
That's like fucking forgot it.
So sort of useful to people
who remember the scenes.
I think movies typically prefer
if you could remember what happens.
I'm just imagining him
sat in the cinema after he finished
and he's forgotten the entire movie.
And he's like, that was great.
I think it was good.
I don't know.
I don't remember.
I'm going to do a review.
Quick question.
I don't know if anyone's actually
seen the other videos
on what they're about,
but does he actually have
an actual video defending the film
for its actual criticisms,
not just the straw bullshit
he's been doing?
This is part of a four or five part series?
Yeah, that's what I'm asking.
Does anyone know what they are,
even briefly,
what the other ones are going to be about?
Because I'm so perplexed
if he's going to talk
about the actual film or not.
I'm pretty sure he does a breakdown
of all the arguments in the film.
So the idea would be,
people are collectively complaining
that Benjamin Lockwood
came out of nowhere.
I told you about this.
So I complain about it.
Wolf does, RLM does.
He puts all those clips in a row.
And then he says,
Benjamin Lockwood was established.
Okay, okay.
I'm sure I just want to know
if he did that at all.
Yes, but like I said,
he defends that one
as Benjamin Lockwood is in the books.
And it's like, that's not a counter.
Thing is not recommended.
Why?
Because these in-depth reviews
are dependent on the reviewer's memory.
And unless you have a really,
really strong memory
or rewatch the movie several times
to memorize it,
which by the way,
great for supporting this bad movie
that you told everybody not to go to.
Good plan.
Never told anybody not to go and see full.
I don't think I ever told anybody
not to go see any movie
that I've reviewed, actually.
I'm telling people right now,
do not buy Fallout 76.
Well, this is the thing I did say.
I did say don't buy
Scholar of the First Sin.
And I said it's because
you shouldn't encourage,
like money gouging, basically.
But if you were to buy
Scholar of the First Sin
for the same price as DS2,
it doesn't make a fucking difference, I guess.
The problem is that
they gouged shit out of DS2
and put it into Scholar of the First Sin
and resold the game.
So like, they cheated their audience.
So I'm saying like,
it's a bad practice
and we shouldn't encourage it
by buying it.
But, you know,
what are you going to tell me
that I shouldn't advise people?
The other thing,
would it even be wrong to do that?
To be like,
Fallen Kings is an awful film.
Don't waste your money.
I guess he's saying,
if you're wrong, it's bad.
But what if you're right?
And in this case, we are.
How dare you.
You're going to base your notes
on faulty memories
and you can't just rewind
the movie to a double check.
What is his argument right now?
Okay, so my counter is
all of those videos,
they have great memories.
Well, I mean,
this is the thing,
like, what tell me,
any one of you three,
what is his argument right now?
His argument is that he's
making the assumption
that if you make
very long form content,
then it can suffer
because you are relying too much
on the details
that you get strictly from memory.
And the more you do that,
the more you open yourself up
to miss remembering something
and therefore making an error.
Which isn't necessarily
false in practice,
but he's got to actually show it.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
That's why the counter is being like,
oh yeah, well, what if they have
all good memory?
What if all those people
that you listed,
the two of them,
Mahler and Wolf,
what if they have really good memory?
Then your point doesn't mean anything.
To give you an example,
the one a lot of people
got wrong from The Last Jedi
when people said DJ
shouldn't have known
about the transports.
If you tackle, say, for example,
I said DJ should have known that
in my five hour series
and then you go, you see,
he did it.
I'd be like, that's one.
What about the other valid 500 points?
He's not quantifying
any of these points
with actual examples.
He's just talking about
contextless hypothetical situations.
He'll give names.
He'll point two people out
and then he'll make a point,
but he won't.
He'll imply an accusation,
but he won't actually show.
Yeah, he won't show how or where.
Plus, you get to buy illegal means.
Wait, hang on.
As we say, it's impossible to have
had a perfect memory of the film
unless you have it on cam or whatever.
So what if they did?
Are you saying that it's immoral
and therefore,
even if it's an accurate video,
it was immoral?
How dare you pay to go and see a movie,
then make a review about it
longer than 10 minutes,
and then refresh your memory
by watching it again.
From a moral position,
if you paid to see the film
and then you downloaded a camera
to get accurate information
about the plot
instead of misrepresenting the film
and then you didn't re-sale
or you didn't re-watch the film
for any other purpose than information.
Morally speaking,
I'd say you're relatively in the clear.
Yeah, it's pretty neutral,
considering it doesn't mean a lost sale.
Similarly, would it be morally worse
to give people bad information
that would affect the sales?
Oh yeah, definitely. 100%.
Also, I just want to...
Solar Dragon said,
wouldn't it still be a plot hole
if they didn't know
about the cloaking devices?
How did he deduce that?
It's like,
if the logic is
that they're using transports,
the film says...
This is actually a problem to me.
The film says that he goes,
we ran a decloaking device, sir.
It seems that there are transports.
You just sit there like,
why the fuck were you running
decloaking scans this whole time?
You already did it
because DJ suggested
that they have transports.
Did you not know
they had transports?
Let's not talk about this.
Well, last month,
the report came in
that we were running
too many decloaking scans.
And so they say,
if we keep doing it,
they'll start to cut
our budget back a bit.
Yeah, I love the idea.
They're like,
they don't have enough battery
to do all of that.
There's a lot of batteries.
Now that fuel's an issue,
apparently, who knows?
We're running out of electricity.
Oh, dear.
The lightbulbs are flickering.
Opinions wrong about something
that will stick around forever
unless you take it down
and redo the whole thing
all over again.
Wait, yeah.
Those are things that happen.
What's wrong with that?
I just want to hear that again
to make sure I got the context, right?
Can't just rewind the movie
to a double check
unless you get to buy illegal means.
And when you get your facts
and opinions wrong about something,
when you get your opinions wrong,
I like that he said that
because I feel like
he's the kind of person
that said opinions can't be wrong.
You know?
Yeah, like he,
to his perspective,
that's a slip of the tongue,
but it's actually correct.
You can have wrong opinions.
Well, this is the problem.
A lot of people don't know
that you can hold an opinion
that is based on faulty information,
meaning that opinion is now incorrect.
That as a concept is actually...
It's true that you have that opinion.
Yeah.
That opinion is incorrect.
That's difficult for a lot of people.
Stick around forever
unless you take it down
and redo the whole thing
all over again.
So if I make a mistake,
I like to acknowledge them.
So if someone leaves a comment
and I read it
and then I go,
yeah, that's actually a mistake.
There's nothing wrong with that.
It's actually a good process.
And if someone makes a video
that's an hour long
and it's only mistakes
and they take it down and re-upload,
that's also a good thing.
So I like this.
I guess this video is 25 minutes of mistakes.
Well, you can take the Bob Vids bits out.
But I guess because YouTube's algorithms
just point a gun to your head
and you force yourselves
to make something
while the movie is still trending.
I was making my videos well
before YouTube's algorithm
picked them up.
So yes, YouTube's algorithm
is some bullshit
and it changes all the time
and we're not being forced
to do anything.
Look at this, look at that.
Hang on.
Just because the algorithm
might be against
the kind of video
that you put out,
that doesn't mean you can't just
power through it
through sheer audience retention.
YouTube recommendation algorithm.
Millions of videos.
I don't even know
what he means by that.
Does he mean the people?
YouTube has millions of videos.
Just had.
Yeah, you have made
millions of videos.
I was gonna say I really don't have.
I don't even have a hundred yet.
It feels like millions of videos.
They're so fucking long.
Then I don't understand graph either.
Like what is this really a graph?
User recommendation,
which well isn't user recommendation
literally just users sharing or.
Yeah, yeah, video ranking,
which yeah, usually it's determined
by view count, right?
That's how they ranked.
Typically.
Relevancy.
It's relevancy to the user.
Then you got comments and demographics,
which I guess you can be a demographic
and a video can be pushed to you
because you're in that demographic.
And then they're separate.
They're entirely separate things.
Yeah, I'm not instead of looking.
I'm just I don't know
what this is for moving on.
There is an algorithm, yes.
And those are the same people
who yell at Hollywood
for making movies
based on trends
instead of making good stories.
In April of 2015.
Whoa, here we go.
That's a connection that was just made.
What now?
Wow, the implied hypocrisy
of people who criticize
Hollywood for following trends.
But they try to make videos
apparently that go along
with YouTube's algorithm.
Oh, you saying he's saying
that they've become
the very people they swore to destroy.
I think that's what he's saying.
Yeah, man.
I think that's actually what he's saying.
And those are the same people
who yell at Hollywood
for making movies based on trends
instead of making good stories.
In April of 2015.
Yeah, he's saying that long form content
isn't good content.
It's just trying to be trendy
instead of being quality
just like how Hollywood
isn't trying to have quality.
They're just trying to go
with whatever is trendy.
Yeah, well, it's nice that he's got
literally what one citation
of Nostalgia Critic
making a bet with his brother
about which actor
was going to be more placid.
That doesn't even help his point.
No, it doesn't.
It's just like, okay,
completely irrelevant
to this point he's making here.
The best you could do is find out
how they judge an actor's performance
and then go look at it in the film
and be like, is this fair
to considering what they said?
That's not even what happened.
They were just telling the audience
they had a bet on who would be more
who to them would be more placid.
And they both agreed
that it was Kevin Costner.
So it's such a bizarre moving on.
Disney announced that they'd be making
a live action Winnie the Pooh film.
Angered by this,
cinema sins Jeremy
uploaded a video of himself
explaining why he thinks
that's a terrible idea.
I just love that he keeps
playing these clips
and it's got right there
why cinema sins is terrible.
Not why everyone's
it's not why baller wolf
fucking all those other people are terrible.
It's why cinema sins is terrible.
You offend me Disney.
You offend me as somebody who has written
and created original things.
I'm not going to say anything about that.
Come in the comments and say
you make videos on YouTube
using other people's movies
blah, did he blah, did he blah.
And yes, you're right.
We also make a shit ton of other stuff.
But yeah, and finish.
They did do skits, I believe,
on different channels.
I don't know enough about that.
But what I will say
in his defense sort of is
it does take a writing skill
to be able to make very long form reviews
instead of just
if you have an off the cuff reaction,
obviously anyone can do it
and you just hit record and then upload.
But if you structure an essay
to hit certain beats
and have set up some payoffs
and tell and almost explain a narrative,
then you need to have some skill
in that department.
Otherwise, it'll be a mess.
It'll have no structure.
So yes, it takes some skill,
but I don't know.
CinemaSid said, like,
you offend me as a as a writer, Disney.
It's like, okay.
More importantly,
the reason we started that channel
was to point out
when Hollywood started slacking.
Can I just I fucking I hate his.
Also, what's with the like
the surrounding noises
it's on the dashboard.
It's picking up the vibrations of the car
falling into tropes, cliches and cycles.
That's the point of the whole channel.
Yeah, and the irony is
that CinemaSins is a giant channel of tropes,
cliches and he just does everything
the way he's done it for years.
It's this is why Bob's vids video is pretty good.
Was to belong this shit.
Like Bob's vids makes points.
So I mean, it's not like the interest.
Was this released
while Alien Covenant was in theaters
released after it came on home releases?
Yeah, CinemaSins will usually upload
a film that's relevant to the film
that's currently being released.
And then you'll do it
once the HD stuff comes out.
Is this directly from Bob's video still?
It might be.
I swear it is.
I figure I recognize Bob making this point
and you talking about it
where we watched it.
Yes, definitely something he doesn't
is a thing a lot of channels do.
Because there will be people who go.
Oh, that's kind of I'm interested in that
because I'm going to see Alien Covenant.
You know, that sort of angle.
It's just search traffic.
Well, I was about to say,
I don't think I have anything
specifically wrong with it, to be honest.
It's like it's not there's nothing.
Why are they being criticized?
They're just being top.
Like I guess they should just.
Is everyone just supposed
to make a relevant shit?
Yeah, that's the thing.
Not everybody is supposed to make
relevant shit.
Yeah, I know that some people
like being relevant
means more money that they make.
And so they have a reason
to try and make relevant content.
That's the thing.
Like I cover a relevant movie,
but I try and do it tangentially
to what's being discussed
and what's going on.
So like when Infinity War
came out video, bootleg Marvel movies.
So there's some element
of relevancy in what I'm doing.
Does that mean that I'm not a critic now?
And if you know that
you didn't fall in kingdom.
So oh yeah, so I'm not a fan.
You certainly know that.
It's all about how you want to look at it.
I mean, if I want,
if most people like my videos
and making relevant videos
means more people will see my videos
then more people will see my content
and enjoy it if I make something relevant.
Yeah.
So what's the problem?
You're the bad guy now.
You're just about a cinema sins.
My issue is less with this
more with the quality
of the videos themselves.
I guarantee you if we watch
the everything wrong
with aliens video,
we'd probably pick up
a whole bunch of things
we disagree with.
And so if he released a great video
to do with aliens around the time
alien covenant was coming out,
that'd be fine with me.
Look for sins in the infamous sequel.
We thought we'd go back
to the franchise
and look for sins in the infamous sequel.
Why is it infamous?
Because it's so fucking good.
I think he means famous.
Surely he didn't mean infamous.
Yeah, because aliens is really good.
I mean, correct me if I'm wrong,
but people don't typically
look at aliens as a bad film, right?
Yeah, I don't...
Strange, but fair enough.
When the movie gets to be available
on normal releases,
whatever they get to see it again
in the Legion and you find
a cinema sins video
shop down your recommendations
for everyone to watch.
Okay, so it's bad
if we do it within the release.
It's bad that we do it
once it comes out on DVD.
When is the correct time
to review a film?
Just so I know, sir.
Yes, in minutes,
just so that's more exact.
When are we allowed to review it?
How long is our video allowed to be?
How negative are we allowed to be?
Let me know all of these things
because you clearly have the rule book
and I've just fucking
flushed it on the toilet, apparently.
And support lowering the standards.
Idiots like us.
We've just made it start living.
So what the hell...
In fairness, man,
like the shit that he said
about Jeremy from cinema sins
is still kind of in the back of my head.
It's like, wow, you ripped into him
after telling us how bad
it is to rip into people.
All the negativity forces.
Kelly Marie Tran off Instagram.
What if what you said
forced fucking Jeremy off Instagram?
What would you say then?
You hypocrite.
Even further, right?
Ever since I started this series,
I keep getting comments and tweets saying,
hey, will you make a response video to this guy?
Please respond to this guy.
Respond to this guy.
What do you say about this one?
What about this one?
What about this and that?
You know what?
You're getting it.
And we watch your lucky video.
And since I'm angry and furious at this,
that means for the entire
of this review,
I'm going to be in my nerd rage mode
full on from the start.
He's really half a dollar so fast though.
Yeah, he's like,
I'm going to respond to all of them.
I get so much correspondence
asking me to do stuff
because everybody loves my content.
Fuck off.
Yeah, we usually reference it here
when people are like,
why are you covering this video?
And it's like, oh, people asked us to.
We're not saying it like,
people have been asking me
and Rags personally to speak on this.
You guys have been demanding.
We can we can own these retards easily
because we're so smart.
Button is already smashed hard.
So let's get to it
and end this show of bad content.
That'd be correct.
More air, right?
Yeah, right.
Fuck off.
All right, Jesus.
All right, turn the volume down.
Let's just see if it says anything else.
Turn the video off.
Wow.
Hey, look, there's me.
There's Wolf.
There's...
I don't know the rest of these people.
Red Lair Media.
Brown Table.
I know that one.
Tangled.
That's how it should have ended.
I think is up there.
The day it died.
I don't know that icon.
I don't either.
The biggest problem.
I don't know that icon either.
Table Man.
Table Man.
Oh, that's Brown Table.
I know that one.
Oh, it is Brown Table.
Okay.
I'm pretty sure.
His icon does look like a table.
So he's green round.
It looks more orangey than brown.
If I'm going to nitpick.
So we would never do that of this covers that we never talk about.
Yeah, it's fine.
I mean, I'm orange and that's fine.
It's a fine color.
It is a fine color.
So yeah, he's got a part two, three, and four.
Obviously, no hate to this man.
He's clearly very opinionated and passionate.
He is.
I know that he responds more so to me and Wolf than in this video.
So once Wolf comes back, we'll consider throwing his part two on
and see how far we can get.
Yes.
Yeah, no, I think I think we could.
Interesting to see his take on on film criticism.
It makes no sense whatsoever.
He's completely inconsistent on this and his whole video acts as a counter to his own points.
Again, we said it at some point in this video, but like people love integrity.
People love consistency because otherwise you don't make sense.
If your argument is full on, no movie with pets is good.
People probably don't agree with you, but if you flip one day and say this movie is good
and it has pets in it, they're going to be really annoyed at you.
It's just like a straightforward thing.
People don't like it.
So structure as well.
I don't know what the fuck is going on with this video.
Like it started with some strange skit.
Then it moved into how people absurdly don't like fallen kingdom.
Then he took one criticism of the film from an article that didn't have any specific details.
And it wasn't even a criticism, really.
It was just more like it looks like it was just an opportunity to teach you people about fucking
biology.
This is a topical topic as most topical things are.
Let's teach you about dinosaurs because every dinosaurs are in the news or in the cycle.
That's cool.
And then it drifts into talking about critics, I guess.
And then Bob Vids gets shoved in a lot that it ends.
It's like, okay, anything you guys have to say?
I'm interested to I'm not, but I'm curious.
No, I'm not curious.
I just want to know if he's got any points at all or if it is just all this like sweeping
generalizations and then just complete hypocrisy throughout these four parts of this fucking
dumpster fire of a video series.
Also, yeah, we're not going to be able to do a second one because I mean, Rags is going
anyway.
And yeah, I'm basically going to leave.
We're never going to be able to get through another video.
Food.
Yeah, I was going to say, we're going to have to stop you.
Four hours and accepted about a VFAP.
And you've got a whole argument about water.
You can't get that anywhere else.
But I have to read off a couple of the super chats quickly.
Give me a moment.
You're more the worth of by from Major Lee's video said copy and paste from
return of the general said also said Hollywood has been invaded by aliens because they don't
know what the fuck they're doing.
Invite him on a stream.
We can look into that because people really did like he's the guy who said fucking millennials.
It is a there's a rant.
We there for that Rags or do you miss the millennials?
Yeah, the in Major Lee's video in the last he was he was showing clips from other people.
And this is guy ranting like crazy against the last Jedi at one point.
He goes.
Fucking millennials.
Love this film.
Shit like that.
I think yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That was funny.
The best parts of Major Lee's video were the people that he showed in his video.
Yeah, they're funny.
Yeah, well, well, well, I'll have a look.
There's a lot of people we're trying to get through guest wise.
Absolutely love the flaps.
He flaps, he flaps, boys.
It keeps me sane during my long shifts at work.
I honestly wish they were longer than five hours.
Can't wait for TFA critique.
I thank you.
What makes a man turn neutral?
That's a strong reference as well.
Love the show pulls for 30 minutes and missed nothing.
Yep, this is a beauty.
What's the theme of Jurassic World one and two?
Oh, the you have to look at analysis videos to discover the true themes.
I'm sure they'll kill Lando in nine by going down with Lesbo droid from Falcon.
I'm curious if they're going to bring that back for episode nine.
If they fucking if if Lando, because here's the thing, Lando's if Lando in any way interacts
with the Millennium Falcon, it's he basically now, but he already has in the past.
So you're you're adding details that he Lando didn't have any reason
in the old Star Wars movies, the original series to interact with the Millennium Falcon
in a certain way.
And now he does because of something that happened in a movie that didn't exist back
then, but it would change his behavior now in the character.
So it's really, oh, man, it's like either way, it sucks.
Like, I don't want him to.
But if he doesn't, then that's kind of a problem with what they now have decided to establish.
It's a mess, man.
It's a mess, man.
I think Finn will be the most consistent in episode nine.
All right, we'll see.
RDR2 is a great game.
Didn't like the music, though.
That's a question.
I haven't played the instance revolution.
Fire isn't hot.
It just makes other things hot.
Oh, gosh, that's where we are.
The super jet.
Wet, consisting of or containing covered with or soaked with liquid such as water is wet.
Move on.
F for 69 for being in jail.
Damn feds got him.
69 is who's Keshi 69.
It's a shit mumble rapper.
He's done for racketeering and selling weapons and some other shit.
But before that, he was a nonce anyway.
It's probably best that he goes to jail.
If not, no context.
Well, I mean, if he if he's found guilty of racketeering and legally selling weapons,
because with all the weapons I've sold have been legal.
Random question.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, yeah.
I was curious about your opinion on Wonder Woman.
Don't get all the love personally.
Godot was decent, but the rest are so blah.
I kind of liked the first third enough, but then it really drifted off for me.
And the last third was awful.
And it's definitely the least offensive recent DC movie.
Yeah, I think it's the best DC's had to offer in its little universe.
And as for Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman, I'm fine with it.
I don't have any problem.
I need to I need to get ready and head on out.
So I'll catch you later tonight, depending on when I'm around or not.
Yeah, we're pretty much at the end anyway.
So thank you all for for for watching.
Cynic Snacks, of course, has been a wonderful guest.
I'm going to spam his channel in the thing.
If it fucking loads, it's dying for me for no reason.
It always does this every time at the end.
Not so much at the beginning.
Either way, I suppose while I'm doing this,
if you could just summarize your channel again for him.
Oh, yeah, so I basically dig around in secondhand stores and charity shops
and like bargain bins and shit to find literally the worst film on Earth.
And a lot of them don't even have reviews like they just completely fly under the radar.
And I just pick them apart in in a hilarious, entertaining way.
And I also animate some shit.
So it's I don't know, I spend hundreds of hours on my videos.
So go and watch them because it makes me feel good.
Yes, go subscribe.
He's got a very unique style and it would be nice to get reviewers
that have a bit of a different take on things is all I'm saying.
He deserves more subscribers in my in my opinion.
There you go.
I didn't say it was objective.
I'm neutral.
But yeah, see you next week.
I imagine for whatever we decide to cover.
Thank you all for for watching and good night.
