Pete, let's do it, guys.
Dad, dad, dad, dad, dad.
This is a super wholesome podcast.
No swearing, please.
You know, swearing on my Christian discord server.
No swearing, kiddo.
So that's the Ork speech version.
In case you guys speak that, I want to be all inclusive.
As now as green cut to all, that's your opinion.
Phil Swift.
Hello there, everyone.
Uh, I wonder how long it's going to take him to realize that there's a Jared emote
and then to start spamming that.
Well, God, Jared Milk.
Oh, no, Jared Milk, what does that mean?
They've already done Rhino Milk, Ghost Milk, Spider Milk.
Jared's just the next one.
There was somebody who follows the podcast who knows me and they were like,
sorry, Mr.
Podcast, what's the butterfly one?
I get I understand the Rhino Milk and the Ghost Milk, but the butterfly one.
What was the butterfly one?
Actually, I need remembering, reminding.
What was the butterfly one?
Someone posted a butterfly in the chat and then I commented on it
and then everyone started spamming butterfly milk.
Well, that's what you get.
That's how it works.
I didn't think that we're going to combine the two.
Allow this.
I need to remind you how this game is played.
You open your mouth once and you're done.
Come and shower with wheels.
Yeah, so we all got splendid new new avatars for this,
like potentially one podcast and, you know, it's up to everybody.
But how is everybody?
Well, I do this probably this time.
Be like, we have a guest.
I'm introducing that first, because that's literally what you should do.
Jay Longbone, who runs a channel where she just rips into things
because she's mean, you know, yeah, it's true.
Yeah, I mean, Robin can't do.
I'm fine. I'm good.
Excellent.
That's like the perfect mood to be in for one of these ridiculously long,
stupid podcasts.
Why? Why is your name?
Why is your name Longbone?
It's oh, no, don't answer that question.
No, it's actually a very safe for work answer.
Yeah, it's a mystery science theater reference.
Oh, when when I hear when I heard the name Longbone,
I found it humorous.
I found it humorous.
I can I, you know, I get I know why, Rags.
I don't even need to explain that like that.
Did you like that?
Did you like humorous?
Because we all know because it's a long bone.
Yes, referencing your body men, how they used to hit people with bones and stuff.
What? No, no.
What have the cavemen violence have to do with this?
Rags, I know you're a violent man.
That's why you did it.
It has nothing to do with it.
Your bone is the humorous.
It's a long bone.
I found it humorous.
Yeah, we got it. We got it. We got it.
Yeah, it's like a joke for your body.
Yeah, yeah, OK, your opinion, right?
So memberships are a thing now on this channel,
especially thanks to all the Patreon crap is going on.
A lot of people want to find alternatives to actually do it
at whatever donations they prefer.
So the membership thing you can find it is that there's a link
just underneath the first link in the description.
It allows you to use emotes on the channel and it gets you membership stuff.
I think the only person right now who has it in chat is where is he?
He was just using it.
So I can the hideaway, if that's how that's pronounced.
That's why I had to read it.
Oh, I can hide away.
But so there's these five emotes, but then there's one more.
I'm going to post it in chat so you guys can all appreciate it.
Done, done, done, done.
It's a beautiful amount.
And so you you can use that link to become a member, I guess,
and then down the line will probably switch out these emotes
for people who really want defabulated ones.
The badges you get have milk on them and upgrade to rhinos,
drinking it eventually like I'm trying to correct the animation
or the picture on it to look better.
But that's that's the idea.
And of course, maybe you guys said that so seriously, it made it funny.
It's important that they know that they have milky emotes.
That's they need it.
The thing is, yeah, people is like, we already have the rhino and the milk.
Like, I wouldn't even need to have emotes for that, really.
Well, it's like levels.
You start off at skim and then you graduate.
No, no, you start off at soy.
It's always because soy is the worst.
And then you go up to skim.
Because it's like, would you portray that with a tiny picture, though?
They would all look identical, of course, but
you know, it's pointless.
Like, I know. Yeah, I guess.
Carry on. I always forget to put that link out.
Oh, wait, this shouldn't be a hashtag on that.
So terrible. Hey, we haven't started the video.
Yes, it's fine.
And no, we're not watching whatever the hell that says.
Oh, cats make you laugh your head off.
I mean, I have no idea what this even is.
It's a combination of letters and what does that say? Tech tar.
Tech. What are you talking about?
Well, you can read it. Oh, test.
Let's test. Is that a relic?
Yeah, T and E are the same, but the C makes an S sound.
Why is it all in Russian?
Well, this is the default video.
I have no idea what's going on.
This is what they provide me.
Is this proof that we're Russian bots?
We put that on the screen.
They're like, oh, wait, what is Aqua Jared?
Well, Aqua Jared is probably better than Aquaman,
because that movie is awful. Yeah. Is it bad?
Oh, God, it's hilarious.
Me and my friend, like people were shooting me
and my friend dirty looks in the theater
because we just couldn't stop laughing.
Yeah, it was really it was hilariously dreadful.
I don't have any plans to see it.
I just watched the red letter media for it.
It's bad. Funny, bad.
But I heard there was a crab battle. Oh, God.
There's a there's a crab person who like rips off a line that,
you know, that famous they may take our land,
but they can't take our freedom.
They like literally rip that off and put it in the movie.
Only it's a fucking CGI crab person saying it.
So it's so it's really, really funny.
I actually forgot about that part.
It was. What do you think of Aquaman?
Oh, wait, me? Yeah. Yeah.
What do you think of Jacqueline Glenn
being one of the main characters?
Yeah. Well, I see my personal
my personal feelings on Aquaman. I actually enjoyed it.
Oh, I enjoyed it, too.
I just I just enjoyed it entirely ironically.
Yeah, well, yeah, that's I think that's the only way
because I think that's what they were going for
because you can't Aquaman is he's just not he's not that hero to fish.
That's fucking so cool.
Yeah, I mean, you can't make him anything but an ironic hero
because it's just you can't do it.
You can't do him like Batman. You can't do him like Superman.
It's just it'd be impossible.
So I think they just went straight into like,
you know, ironic cringe territory.
They were just like, fuck it.
All right, look, we got a we got a guy in a fucking black suit
big head and he looks like a like a like a retarded mantis.
Oh, God, did you love that?
Did you love that shot where he like he shot the laser
and it blew up the mountain in that terrible after effects explosion?
And then he looks back and he looks like he's constipated for some reason.
Shit. Yeah.
I really love the part where they completely ripped off
the plot of how to train your dragon to where they bring his mom back
into velociraptor land.
And then she's like, you got to go get the fork.
And he's like, OK, so he fights the grave mine from Halo 2.
And then he steals the dead dude's clothes and he's like, I'm ready.
When you describe the movie, I mean, I do appreciate the fight scenes.
I really like the way they were done.
Unironically, legitimately, because
in normally in action movies, it's always like the shaky handheld thing
and they can't they can't keep the goddamn camera still.
You don't know what's going on.
And with this, it's sometimes it's just like one continuous shot of
is one continuous continuous fight sequence.
And I like like I like that attention to detail.
It's like they put some they put effort into this movie.
Like there was no half-assing it.
I would. But it's just it's just it's just it's like they did it.
It's like they made it kind of wonky because they knew they couldn't make it
any other way, but there wasn't but there was attention to detail
in some parts of the film. Yeah. And that I think expensive.
Oh, yeah, it was expensive because it's all underwater
and they have to make like half CGI.
Why did I have massive crab armies fighting
and have like practical effects for that?
And I guess because there's no drag people, I feel back.
So I feel like I need to see this film now just to be able to be like,
you need to you need to appreciate the insanity.
It gets really funny.
Do I want to know cinema for it?
Is that something I want to do?
I would say so just because you can laugh and everyone else can like
glare at you when they're taking it seriously for some reason.
Well, that's fair enough.
I was going to say just to make sure we're rolling with intro here.
I've got like old videos for us to do the thing with
and then some of the rags to read out and then potential smaller means
before you get to a video.
This is going to be our longest intro, I think.
They're already in 10 minutes.
So the subjectivity slayer is going to say people are making more
of these videos now.
So I feel like we should just try to showcase some of them, at least.
Be like, Oh, God, is that the last Jedi in the corner over there?
I'm just I'm going to just play it.
I'm just I'm just play it.
Just right.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
That's legit amazing.
That's that's great.
It must have taken ages to a baffle of get all those faces moving correctly.
Got Eric just right.
Joseph Lee quitted a movie.
Bob, how dare there be nine dislikes on this video?
Listen to this comment.
Mahler isn't a good reviewer.
The dude basically tries to overanalyze everything to the smallest detail.
And it's basically him gatekeeping.
There is no such thing as an objective opinion.
It's a bunch of jargon made up by extremely pissed fan boys like Mahler.
Who want to feel like they can justify anything they say with such a vague excuse.
Well, they got us.
And overanalyzing overanalyzing is gatekeeping.
Yeah, I didn't know that.
I'm assuming they're trying to go for the whole like we gate, keep
what good movies and bad movies are.
Have we ever told anyone to stop making content?
No, well, I might I might have mentioned it to Quentin a few dozen times.
Yeah, maybe maybe not counting.
Quentin. Well, I think outside of a joke.
Oh, good lord. What's this one?
You guys, you guys ready?
This one's good in the playoffs.
Going to make you laugh.
Oh, I can't wait.
Holy shit. An efab far, far away.
I fucking hate Trump.
It only makes sense that if you want milk, you would use a rhino.
You're a responder. Please go away.
I was inventing my expectation.
I will all my end work.
Subversion incoming.
Oh, God, I need to see who this is.
Oh, my God.
Oh, I don't please me who I think it is.
Please.
Oh, I want to be surprised by this.
As far as.
This is a judgment of it.
I just don't logistics.
I mean, I see the bride of old.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
So to Jared Genesis also to
Oh my god, I'm spamming this link in the chat everyone go watch this amazing
I should have seen that Jared incoming but it's just I can tell you rags his reaction was exactly Bible social feels like please be Jared
Oh my god, if you click on if you click on the links to Quentin and Patrick, oh
Yeah, it's actually quite funny if you do that it takes somewhere else
Sub to Quentin, where's this one go? Please tell me it's just oh it goes to ER. Oh
No, I accidentally clicked off of it now I need to see where the other one goes
Okay, okay, so Quentin goes to ER Patrick goes to
No, you should have had you should have had Quentin go to PewDiePie
Yeah
One more meme video we've still got more videos
I've killed 20 people in this battle
He's in a coma so he's not technically dead so that's point five
He's about to like four and then falls like wait a lot of us have died already. He's like, oh
Like how many exactly half
What if there's an odd number of people in the ship
Business suit with big old glasses just like
He just sits down at his little desk and he's like, alright gotta pull out my pocket calculator guys
You I owe you a 200 lives
Just awesome these are amazing
Yeah, you guys are like really passionate and talented and also have loads of free time and I really appreciate that
Also, the Jared one is objectively the best. Oh
That one dude my I have
Might have cramps on my soul. I
Wasn't I didn't think we'd be laughing that hard that early but
Like I have to watch it again because I was laughing so much like I didn't even catch half of it
So I can say later and I'll still have half of it to enjoy
Yeah
It was it was the last efap right that we ended it with watching like that the
Redo of the Count Dooku fight thing, right? Oh
Yeah, we got there's another one of those but I was gonna do it at the end of the episode as well because
Someone said I need to check out Jared's channel and oh my god. The thumbnail alone is
His last his latest video
Keep it up there Jared. All right, so back to reality
There was there's a video that got released. I kind of I'm not even 100% sure
Let me find out what the date was because I don't even know if it's old like
December 24th, so it's only been around for five days and it's already
nearing a million views like it's doing pretty damn well, and so it's gotten into a bunch of people's recommended and
there are certain people like Patrick Willems who have tweeted out that they're very unhappy about that because
You know how if you see a perspective that's different to yours that means that it shouldn't be allowed to be public
Oh, this was a great video. I really like this video. So
We're not gonna watch the whole thing, but I'm gonna look for a specific
Bit actually, let me just do the smart thing and do it without
Fucking guessing where it is. It's great because he's only got like 43,000 subs and this video is on
Track to 900,000 views. Well, that's great. I think that is fair to say
There's something worthwhile seeing in this video. Surely if it's getting that kind of traction. I mean, that's not exactly a
An argument for how it must be good. I'm just saying, you know, I didn't realize you titled this stream a rhinos worth of memes
And checking out bad media criticism. Yeah, I mean, you know, that's something we're gonna do too. We'll throw that in there
Yeah, he's got
The Queen's this is like a selection
this is basically an argument against Disney for how they use lightsabers and the thing that he highlights is how lightsabers seem to only like
people they never kill anymore or at least to the significant characters like Kylo and then and then
He like keeps building up how he's gonna talk about the the throne room bit
because it's like obviously the bit everyone's got those problems with and
Interestingly, he has some stuff say so I'm hoping I could just play this. I don't think I'll get broke with anything
but I'll be posting is
The YouTube video in in chat for everybody to sit and here we go. Whoa
She's strong two other four shoes in the room, but that doesn't stop Ray. What the fuck? It's this guy doing
She's on the other side of the room. Nice pose. Here we go
The worst choreographed fight in the history of mankind. Why are you spinning stop spinning?
And look at the other guy he's about to go for his sword instead of his head
She's a kicked three people with one kick
This is awesome that kicks embarrassing just quickly
This is their new boss now
What would have happened if they'd killed Kylo like who would they then answer to very confused very confused man man?
She's good two points here
The worst thing to have in a spaceship is fire
But these guys stand in front of a mass of war with weapons that light it up like a Christmas tree
This isn't something you slow down to see this guy is literally
Literally waiting his turn. What are you doing over there, buddy fucking get into the fight?
How good more screaming remember when Jedi's would focus
See this guy this is my favorite part
He's about to throw his weapon away before charge Ian literally throw it out of the shot so he can die roll the tape
They're watching this
Amazing more floor-hitting. Oh Kylo doesn't seem to have much control. Here we go
You've all seen it the disappearing weapon why they didn't remove it from the start of the cutscene. Who knows now you see it
And now it's gone
Here's another chance to kill her and then the move that just fucks me off that arm was pushing against her as soon as she
Let go that weapon should have gone clean through her face
And then apparently we were the only ones that picked it up because we hadn't seen this video and I think was it rags
I picked that up. Yeah, I was the one who noticed it because we were going through another video of the last Jedi
I forget which one because they're all the same kind of and
It's just every time we it's like we catch something new that's awful about it
And this was one that I was like, wait a second. She should be dead here
And bang that leg should be gone what just nicked again
Okay headshot. What why isn't his head off? What's with all the just
The nicks the flesh wounds. It's a strong arm
You say just doesn't protect the face now people will say well you slowed it down
No one will ever notice or better still I'm nitpicking lift your standards people
They spend months working on these fights. Look at the training. They went through for the prequels. See how many mistakes you can find in those films
How did so many mistakes get past so many people this isn't a one-take scene
They would have done this over and over and over. Is it the lack of talent or do they just not care?
It's just working out the moves for that these bullshit. Yeah
Good shit. Oh, yeah, this is great. Yeah, this is this channel
I enjoyed I am more inclined to promote it just because Patrick is trying to tell people that this video is awful
And nobody should watch it when how could you deny it? You should all watch how was that not fun?
See the see the all the mistakes in a row
I
Didn't notice the guy who just threw his weapon away
Well, I mean it sort of fits
How long are we gonna have this statement be true every time you revisit the last Jedi more mistakes are found like
the treasure trove of a movie
But yeah, that's listen weapons are like plot holes they don't matter
I'm waiting for that video for Patrick. You gotta be you gotta be those soft penis asshole
That would
Patrick
All right, so I'm gonna send you guys
The thing that the that we're gonna read out now. So the context for this was the first one
This is this is from a reddit post and it's about me. Holy mother of God right Rags
You got to read this as these all right candidly as possible as if as if you wrote this and you really wanted to share
This all right
Mauler is a prominent youtuber in video essayist. He is known for making long video series
Mauler made a series analyzing amnesia the dark descent in soma two games
He likes for their construction atmosphere and compelling stories
That series about two video games about 20 hours of interactive narrative to an average player was eight hours long
Mauler also dislikes the sequel trilogy of the Star Wars franchise of films
Muller has spent approximately this much time criticizing the last Jedi or people who have made videos defending the last Jedi
including live streams with other youtubers
66 hours
Let's do some ratios owners. Yeah
Let's do some ratios for a moment
We cannot know editing or writing time for certain especially since live streams have neither
So we will have to go with on-screen time also bearing in mind many of the streams cover multiple topics
And it's not always him speaking or round that up since I don't think mauler minds
He does not take length of critique as real criticism
I'm out of time spent talking about something compared to amount of time that thing itself takes to consume
Amnesia in soma eight hours to 20 hours. So that's about one hour to 2.5 hours two to five hours
The ratio of time spent talking about soma and amnesia compared to how long they are is two to three
So he spends about two-fifths as much time as the media in question to talk about how good it is
Now let's do the last Jedi
66 hours to two and a half
Oh
Right one
I'm not dying. Oh you went
What do you mean? Oh, you're all good. Just keep going you wagged monster song. Oh, oh, let's do the last Jedi 66 hours
Oh
Wait, can any of you guys
The wolf you hear me
Hmm it looks like everyone's dead
Hello, oh
Here you know, I don't like to be what just happened
Yeah, I think discord was having an oopsie, but I can hear you guys now rags
I genuinely thought you must have had like a keyboard next to you when you were intentionally being like
Oh
No, no, I couldn't hear you guys either you were doing all you may you're making weird noises
And that's the thing then mauler was said my name and I was like what and then mauler started doing it
I was like
Like I thought you guys were in on this and I was like, how do I do it? Oh, no, no, no
but
Let me see
Since we know he's not talking about it at all times. Let's be generous and remove one quarter of that ratio
19.8 to 1 so round up to be clean 20 to 1
So we can now say that mauler as of now has spoken of his disliking of a film or the people who like it
Which is an accurate order for 20 times as long as the film actually is
Obviously we cannot say that criticizing a video about something is the same as criticizing that thing
But as the source of his criticism against the last Jedi themed videos is his own opinion on the film itself
I won't lose any conscience combining the two criteria time for one last bit of ratio. Let's combine the two ratios
Amnesia and soma media. He likes is two hours to five hours
The last Jedi media. He dislikes is 20 hours to one hour
Let's times the last Jedi by five to make them the same
100 to 5
ratio of time spent on something he likes to something he dislikes is 2 to 100 and
altogether now
1 to 50
Mauler has approximately dedicated 50 times as much screen presence to something he dislikes as he has to something he likes
Just so you're wondering I spent approximately one hour doing this research and math that sounds like
Seventh-grade math it would be hypocritical of me remiss even not to admit that I myself
Doing the same sort of thing mauler does as I dislike him and I'm currently dedicating time to disliking him
But I rather think the scales are still weighed in his direction
Let's do an encore ratio one hour to 66 hours
Mauler has spent around 66 times as much on-screen time
Alone to the criticizing of the last Jedi as I have spent internal time criticizing him sure
I haven't factored in the extra time on his part not dedicated to his task
But I also haven't factored in the portion of my time
Dedicated to guessing how much of his podcast was not him, so I reckon it's fair
What the fuck Wow was it? What was the point of this?
I read this like what the fuck am I reading?
That the last Jedi is so bad we can talk about it for that long well my assumption is they're trying to say I
Disproportionately hate the last Jedi and they're trying to search for a bonus motivation
I suppose well I mean we're very public about this we take requests on efap
So if people keep which they do keep requesting TLJ videos we will cover them
We've even tried to stymie it now
We're trying to slow it down just because even us we'd prefer to cover something completely different every once in a while
So yeah not taking that into account even a little bit
my DS2 video is longer than my TLJ critique so I
Don't know how you figure that in
The soma videos I think come to 7.5 hours
Which again is longer than the TLJ critique you'd be like well why aren't you covering soma and amnesia videos like who the fuck's making
Videos saying that soma and amnesia are the worst things ever aside from Joseph Anderson, which I've already covered
That's not even a horror game. Yeah, so why would I even cover it when it's not even a horror game?
Why bother I don't I don't even like it. Let's say this person was in this call right now
What would you say to them from this I?
Would be curious. I would be curious what his point is
But just give him like a couple seconds and be like and yeah
What is he trying to say
I'd ask him why it took him an hour to figure out that simple mathematical equation
And if only if only that was it does someone put a response that got a bunch of well
I say a bunch of points a couple of points to the point where
It's clear that this the subreddit seemed to think this is a very reasonable take so I'm posting that now
This is this is the one you'll find very amusing so
You folks ready?
Oh
boy
prepare your anus
This helps add to my theory that more people have subscribed to him simply because he set himself up in a particular camp against
Another set of people on social media in reality
this has less to do with Star Wars and more to do with how people want to associate themselves with one camp versus another camp a
Lot of this is revealed in his
Manifesto the beginning of
You have a manifesto
He's Elliot Roger a
Lot of this. Oh fuck. Well now this channel is gonna get deleted a
lot of a lot of this is revealed in his
Manifesto at the beginning of his most recent video
He promotes himself as objective without really going into
What that is and why anything he actually says is objective in the first place
It's basically Sargon of a cod all over again
I
Call Benjamin
Carl Benjamin defined himself because he opposed Anita Sarkeesian and people fell in line with him because they opposed Anita Sarkeesian
Now the girl wants to actually promote his own ideas. He's losing support
I'm only mentally gain support recently. All right, so I have to go to social blade here. Oh, they're gonna be disappointed
He's losing support
Why because people figured out that he brought nothing to the table?
Other than the fact that he opposed someone a lot of people didn't like okay
So let's look at his let's look at a social blade here starting from the the 16th
He gave he goes from gaining subscribers at
1460 then the next day it's
2129
1719
1912
1769 94
1421
daily average
daily average is
703 so you're saying losing support. So this is interesting
His secondary channel the Thinkery has a daily average of plus
676 and then in the last 30 days he has gained
20,000 300 subscribers
But he's losing support and I'm just like you
Yeah, also he was kicked from patreon and he made all of his money back and then some within a week two weeks
So yeah, I guess he's losing support
This is basically what Mahler is promoting himself as
He's not like H bomber guy Joseph Anderson or Quentin or all these other people
He's not like though, yeah, what is quit that what is Quentin's social blade doing these days
You want to bring that back up
That's not an argue well it is in this case but
He's not like those people who precursor the bulk of their material with in my opinion
Mahler is not like not like not like
Etc. I don't even know if that really means and what will his downfall be?
When Mahler actually tries to create anything
Promote anything do anything other than be the opposite of what many are?
Already predisposed to disliking them odds in it
Welcome to the post hashtag gamergate social media
I didn't realize he were so active in gamergate
Majority focus of my videos. Oh man where popularity is defined by what you're opposed to rather than what you stand for
So I when he says we'll create anything or promote anything does promoting other channels count or not
Just promote. I don't think this person has ever made a video in their life. I mean
maula gate
So yeah, I don't define myself for what I stand against since my opening videos were celebrating how much I thought
Amnesia and soma were good games and you can I thought I laid it out in the video that he refers to as my manifesto
I like celebrating good and and
Criticizing the bad that's so that's my position. All right, if that's does that make it clear if it turns out he'll just bad
Sorry, I
Expect you have a ledger in here in like a loose rock in the mantle of the fireplace
We got a we got a mundane mauler in the chat
No
What do you even say to shit like that, you know
baller festo
Who's this chick? This this is the video we're covering. We're finally almost there. Even though we're 40 minutes in
This reddit post is amazing. This is incredible
Like this person is no concept of like I hate to bring objectivity into it
But have you like objectively seen the objective numbers objectively?
Like sargon's doing pretty good in maulers doing pretty good
Molofesto Quentin is not pretty good right now
Yeah, no, it's I
you know you read, you know, they're the people who'd be like he doesn't respond to
Actual criticism or intelligent criticism and you read all of it and you're just like oh my goodness
Well, that's kind of insulting to all of the people that we've covered who criticize you well
I mean, I was gonna say they make a worst case than like even potentially Quentin. No, maybe not
Just right the other things is like people are welcome to come on to these live streams whenever they want
I think that'll be turned against us at some point like that people will say
They just bully people into trying to debate them live while they corner them. That's gonna be the
Eric taxons already working on that exact angle. I think so honestly, but like is it if we want us to clarify
With like you I'd only come on if it was one of them
We'd be like, I guess that won't be any fat. Thanks. That's not really what he fat is
But I mean, I mean that's a fair request. I mean, we could deal to make it so the
You know only one of us has a non muted mic
Yeah, I think that's fair because you are you know when you criticize three people
Or whatever, you know, then it will be a 1v3 because you you win against three people
I would under I understand why you wouldn't want to be in a live stream against three other voices. I get that entirely
But it's very Eric. This is this really fucking retarded what you're doing
what
We do and say all the time
Including to you is that you're welcome to we want to talk with you and we want to talk about this in particular with you
so if your message is that we
Don't want to address criticism and we're inviting you personally on to talk about it with us
That makes your whole why why bother making the video at all? Oh
Wait, so sorry someone just said
That a hbomber guys said shit about beyond on signal check. I just had a quick Google and use actually on there
Hello, of course, of course he of all people is on our circle jerk. Oh, what is oh Jesus Christ? What is this?
God I'll post it to you guys. Look at this post. What is oh, I shall read it
No, there's no there's no this is too long even for us
Okay, yeah, you're right. This is like the size of one of your scripts so lots lots of emojis
We got some I guess it's my heart emojis. We got some mad emojis. We got a cool guy. It's narrative tripling oji
Narrative tripling. Yeah, cuz there's three emojis. That's narrative tripling. Oh
That's wonderful h bomber guy, maybe you should stop stop now. I
I remember
Kind of what he was he was featured in this video called a
Reasonable questions for anti-social justice warriors, and I did a video on that and I'm just I just realized like
He was the same guy I just realized he's the same guy that you're talking about you
Some of these are pretty good. I recognize rusty cheese knife. He's here
You know hours ago. We should probably avoid Eddie Dave's
I mean even though there's a link to the threads people can find shit
It's just whenever you use names people like you're bullying bullying. Oh, okay
So which one of his H bomber is he general melon?
No, he all he said was thanks for your service
So it's it's the whole remember. Do you remember word for word what I said in my video H bomber guy
I'm totally up for conversation. Even though I don't think what you say makes a lot of sense
Just please stop with the petty snipes, and then what does he do? He snipes at me personally
They won't you know do you know discussions and stuff? I think it's interesting
Like they like this guy saying also he has been objectively wrong as a no sire no joke. He has been objectively wrong
Yeah, we all have exactly smaller says that video he brings up like three examples where he's been wrong in the past
There's actually a subreddit that someone made for my stuff now
That's like a smaller community, but still you know pro more
Let's put it that way and somebody posted about how I made the mistake of saying c3po's arm was
Red and changed in TLJ even though it was changed at the end of TFA
This one was like yeah
He made that mistake and he said in part three that that was a mistake and then they were like you can't make a mistake
If you're claiming to be objective
Moller if you aren't literally Jesus, then you need to stop making YouTube videos now while you still can
I gotta get out before they realize that I actually can make a mistake
I'm legitimately convinced that these people haven't watched your video
Possibly like like maybe the post sort of has
But like I don't think people have actually watched your video
Or they watch it and completely
completely
Misinterpret what you're saying. I mean I get that impression
Tight and they're not high enough to be avoided from like
Better you go the Eric tax on route and you just deliberately lie about the why no question
I mean, that's the Quinton route the Eric tax someone is like fucking ignore
Context that changes recontextualize is what the thing you're saying is
Then just make up a bunch of shit. We've got a whole selection on you fat. It's wonderful
But um, we have so many enemies. It's so fun. He's baller isn't trying to prove his opinion
He's trying to prove that his opinion is the correct one. Well fucking duh. I mean
What on the surface? It's like
What they think they're saying is I'm trying to prove my feelings are factual for everyone or something. It's like this
How does this person type that out? How do you type out a sentence that says he's not trying to prove his opinion
He's trying to prove that his opinion is the correct one
Which one?
How did you type that out and not be like wait if you prove your opinion wouldn't that mean you've proved it's correct
Like don't you want to prove that his opinion is the correct one?
Don't you want to convince people that your opinion is correct and you can back it up with proof
I thought that's the point of like making an argument
Well, there will be youtubers who just want to say that they felt the thing was bad, right?
And then you feel like are you proving that's the truth and they go no, no
But yeah, there are youtubers who are trying to say this is poorly constructed and here all the pieces and this is why and
Then you go that's just your feelings though
That's kind of the crux of my whole intro but my manifesto sorry
This is this is kind of interesting this post. Yeah, some of them are like, yeah, he'll find this and I'll talk about it
I'm like, you know talk about it. It's terrible. Well, we're not allowed to do that anymore
Like yeah, it's like talks about it
Like it's some sort of a victory if they talk if they address the things that we said is like really that's where your bar
Is just being mentioned means that you've scored a victory
That's kind of
And I hate to say it's like isn't that just truth that they don't want discussion question mark
Like I don't know
I mean all these people can like they can tweet at you and come into discussions with us and we can talk
about it
We don't want discussion probably I
Mean, I think their egos are so big
they don't want it even like even like a small part of their argument be to be proven wrong or
Maybe they're to be challenged at all
But yes smaller have absolutely nothing going on in his life, can you believe you devote all this time to your job
The nerve
The best arguments the best
Yay, Anthony Warren's back in the chat. Yeah
Warren. Oh, he's the guy that really really hates me. I want to read out this kid
I want to read this out because he's always funny. He thinks I voted for Trump. I don't I
Don't I don't exactly know where he got that from
But I am the one who voted for Trump. Yeah, it's me
Here's what he says he says wolf says he voted for Bernie, but Bernie wasn't on the ballot against Trump
He says he supports Trump. I I
Don't remember ever saying that the only election is the presidential election at the end in there
Yeah, yeah, it definitely it definitely wasn't the case that I explicitly said I abstained from the general
multiple times
He's fun. Yeah, like I like Anthony. He's he's just like like a little autistic kid
That's just like he says funny things and you're just like, oh, it's okay
He's like a movie circle jerk separate it. Yeah
He's funny I like him I was gonna keep it up buddy
Read it is totally a strong example, but there was a guy I was arguing with on Twitter who is a consistent
Person who does not like my videos, but it has like I'll say a decent following
I'm trying to remain nameless just because discourage the whole go after him thing. Don't go after people but um
Here's argument for against my form of avoiding criticism came down to this and I just want to see what you guys think
I make really long videos
So that when someone takes a singular quote or a piece of work out of the video and reference that it's flawed
I will say aha you haven't seen the video because there is a quote that's an hour later
Completely retextualizes and validates that point. So you're wrong and it came down to I basically asked him
I was like, are you telling me that you didn't watch the whole video and then claim
I made an accurate criticism and that I've used the video in question to defend myself and that's not fair
Question mark like I don't really understand anymore
And I think this is with Eric is gonna go with this defense as well
Just the whole these videos are so long you can't even criticize them and I'm like I
I can criticize them
So, you know, like I actually talked about a bunch of flaws I had in my previous videos in the in the video
So I don't you don't mean like I'm so confused by this
You got anything
They really don't like you know
Like how desperate you have to be to be like, okay
So I watched half of the video and I saw that you said this and you're like, oh look at this other quote though
It's not a defense it's like no
We just have so many really passionate fans
They just passionately despise us
Especially considering those beep videos. It's like it's like that Quentin quote
I quoted to you today where I was watching that stream that he was on and he was like, oh, no
I'm a really big purify fan. I just like talk shit about him all the time cuz I love him
I
Mollers up 10,000 subs the last month like I think he's he's gonna be okay
No, it'll all fall apart
You really realize the truth whatever that guy was talking about the truth of I don't stand for anything and I can't create anything
Well, that's why I said I don't think this person's ever actually made a video before
Because that shit takes work like this fallout review I'm doing that shit's work. It is trying to make a good one that you're pleased with
Let's tell you since he released your video. Let me add these up
Someone said there's a lot of content creators. I like you hate mauler
I was talking to friggy the other day and he said the content creator. He really enjoys who makes long form stuff
Retweeted a tweet saying the you know maulers ridiculously long and it's crap videos and don't watch them and he was like, man
It makes people sad. I'm like, I'm sorry. I can't do anything
So in in four days starting at Christmas going to the 28th, so four days you gained
5,700 subs
So I guess people I what a terrible video. That's just that's tricking people though. That's different
No, I don't want to don't confuse that with saying because people watch it and sub that it's good
But when you add that in with the fact that the video is being very very well received and that people are watching these off-the-cuff
Podcasts that we do we bring people on and we talk about this kind of thing and people are constantly invited
I think that says something
Well, either way that that is basically a good summary of all the criticism
I've received for the video alongside a couple of things that people are fair about like should the intro be attached and
My yeah, that seems to be the big thing that pops up
It'll it will so, you know, we'll gauge it from chat, but everybody wants it to be
Secondarily released on the the moolah channel and I'm okay with that. I can edit it so that it's just the intro and I can call
It well, we can go with a title or whatever
but um
That doesn't mean that it should have been detached as far as I'm concerned
The point is that it's context for the rest of the series
Which I think is harder to see right now because there's only part one it might be like hey
You do have a pretty obvious time stamp. That's true. There's a skip
Yeah, would everybody be comfortable especially the people in chat because these are the people who probably subscribe to the moolah channel
would you be comfortable with me re-uploading a
Shortened version that basically has the intro in the last 20 minutes of part one as a singular video
So that it can be shared is what people have been asking me to do. That's
That might actually be a good idea because when you tell people hey
I really really if they because it does have a little bit of baggage with it
And a lot of people especially new people who don't know anything about the scene of YouTube critics and you know
Objectivity subjectivity. They just want to watch the movie criticism. I think that would be very useful. Yeah
All right, then I shall sort that out
Well, maybe what you can do is
right before you upload
part two
you
upload
Part one that condensed part one so that they're both out, you know at the same time. I
Mean, you should be right cuz it's on the moolah channel. So most people won't be okay to upset. I don't think
Yeah, but yeah, thank you for responses in chat I know we don't accept criticism
So I just want to make sure everyone knows we've been getting requests to check out that the last Jedi
Restoring balance to the fandom video. I don't know if you guys know about that one, but I saw a bit of it
and I was like, oh
So that's another TLJ video obviously, but it's covering
How bad it is how fans have responded and a bit about art critique and he does talk about objectivity and subjectivity so
We will probably cover that video the next time we're covering a TLJ one which could be
After the colonial marine stream you say that like a meme, but that's probably true
That's probably that's still happening people still happening. We tested it and it works. It's still happening
Yeah, I've definitely noticed so you don't have to send it that's on the queue a correction
I said the Peter Quill was abducted in 1981 is 1988 in the MCU
so the the whole thing about Gallagher actually makes sense if
That's what I said, and then we checked in I was like, oh shit
That's not right, but apparently it was it's cuz there's a difference between the comic continuity in the film continuity
I think but I could still be wrong on that
But yeah, I just want to make sure it was said
and apparently the difference between
Hulk and Bruce Banner
Remembering what each other do is something that is in Ragnarok
Specifically like the whole like he was buried into the Hulk and he does have a line of dialogue for that. Apparently
I don't know if
I'd have to rewatch the films to know like, you know who here even remembers the Incredible Hulk with Edward Norton
Like I don't remember what the rules even are for the Hulk
The only other thing was
Some people were confident about
How Thanos could just make resources is singularly enough to ruin the film
Like shouldn't that be enough to say that the entire film is ruined?
I'd be like maybe plot wise but there's loads of character stuff to consider what everybody's going through
Arcwise and that's like why and man everyone else so that the film itself is I suppose I just agree there's complicated to break down
If you have something that fundamentally breaks it, but endgame could fix that
you know, we kind of need to see that before you could probably judge it definitively, but I do agree that some
It would especially if the film established you could do it. It would be a significant problem. So they're the things that I wanted to just
Get out. Oh and someone left a comment saying does Mauler honestly think that Ant-Man and the Wasp Infinity War and Civil War are well written
I thought that was interesting cuz I was like, oh well Ant-Man and the Wasp is like meh
Infinity War is like great with loads of floors and then Civil War is yes. I think Civil War is really well written
Yeah, I think that I mean and man the Wasp the writing it's funny. I think it's it's trying to be it's a comedy essentially
In your opinion in my opinion in my opinion it is a well
I'm not gonna say we actually agreed with a lot of the
Infinity War writing flaws when we were doing that video and a lot of you seem to think that we were like
Super against the idea that it has flows like no we agreed with a bunch of them
No, I'm down for it. Yeah
We haven't agreed
Yeah, I sounded like an edgy teenager when I talked about Aquaman the movie was faithful to the comic don't care had the qualities
No
Yeah, I don't I don't particularly care if it's faithful to a comic that I haven't read
I mean, honestly, I think the comic was a bad idea in the first place because who the who cares about a mr.
Fishman, I want to find the stingray who killed Steve Irwin and ask why
That would have been a better plot than the one we got
So and this is one that I know rags will have a take on this
So so I got a lot of criticism from a particular person. I'll just remain nameless again
arguing that I need to take responsibility for the damage that
Kelly Marie Tran Ryan Johnson, etc have received because
People use my videos as reasoning to attack people who help create the film even though
It doesn't matter if my video did or did not promote violence
Criticism breeds violence. Yeah, like do I need to counter that argument? I don't even like
It's so ridiculous and they went they were going on for ages about this and they were like everybody has a responsibility
to acknowledge
the
Influence they have whether or not they intended it and it's the idea it's like it's how can you say that my videos are influencing violence?
Yeah, I I would
That's true Megan Fox should be fucking dead
Right, everyone's was criticizing the Transformers movies rightfully so by that logic she should be fucking dead
In fairness Shia LaBeouf did lose his mind. He did
Yeah, that's not a name. I've heard in a while
Yeah, I go on is a his capture the flag streams. I'd like to see people's progress
Well, I would agree that to a degree that you have like a responsibility
but only in the sense that you should I
I
would say
You don't have a responsibility
over what other people to do well over over the actions of other people if you
Especially if you haven't told them to do anything
You know like if Mahler went out and said
You everyone watching this video should go out and harass Kelly Marie Tran if he had said that
Then yeah, obviously it'd be a different story
But I don't know how many times we have to say that you shouldn't do that before it sinks in
Like what what do you want us to do exactly like I would I would ask this guy what he wants us to do
Well, he actually said that in nowhere in my videos. Do I denounce any kind of harassment?
I was like you don't even watch the streams under you. Yeah, we clearly don't can condone that. That's obviously ridiculous
Until we all agree until we all agree that the Last Jedi is the best Star Wars movie
Well, we just support harassment. That's
How it feels it's like can you at least make a video positive about the film to balance it out? It's like what?
Save the cast save them
This is this is one of the points so it's like people want to use moles videos to be considered righteous when attacking
Ryan Johnson, for example at that point is more or not responsible for the hatred these people receive
No, absolutely not. That's that's ridiculous. This is where I mean, I just how the fuck how is that fair?
What if someone wrote a book on cooking and someone used it to murder somebody?
You wrote this like I mean, it's that's something
Someone made a solid point in the chat
If we were used to help harassment then Walt Disney is responsible for Hitler because his films persuaded him into failing
his art career
There you go. Let's let's go even further
Everything is the fault of our common ancestor because not to mention Hitler
Hitler had like a picture of Walt Disney in his office or something or was the other way around
Are we responsible for anything? Isn't it all our parents fault? They're the ones that brought us here
Yeah, technically
Enough of this craziness how dare
Um
Yeah, I think that's about it I'm seeing if there was anything else
But we don't it we've been going for
59 minutes, but we don't it as criticism. We haven't even gotten into
What we got here to do. This is the longest intro I do it happen
we had so many beams and points and stuff, but yeah, okay, we couldn't we can totally get into a
Into because this is the thing we try and read read as many comments as possible on on efap
I'm aware the rag zone wolf check them out, too
It's just that I'll get to everything and I try and get to the most notable or this is a selection I can
Talk about all in one. That's the best way to do it. Yeah. No, I don't like racism. We never talk about it
There's some
Some unsettling super chats I've seen from evil toad
Oh
Someone who claims to uh, I don't know I got a little breathing a little whistle to it when you sleep it's loud
Oh, right, right
Hear it from under your bed. He also said that he makes your pillows. Oh, well, that's so that's kind of him
That's kind of nice. So
The video little disturbing but the video we're supposed to be talking about is called bad media criticism
now
I had one run through it when I was playing a video game and I remember finding the a lot of the points were
Fair and a lot of points were vague
but my perspective could change when really thinking about everything that said but it's supposed to be a sort of
review of
Reviewers in the modern age and what's wrong with them?
And I think she tries to sort of draw a history of how this all came together. So
Don't attack. All right, listen leave her alone. Is that what people say? Cuz we never condone that shit anyway
Yeah, all right. Everyone put on your reader response theory helmets helmets. Yeah
Yeah, but it's like an alternate opinions
It's like the like the helmet that
God who's the old dude in X Ben
Patrick Stewart Charles
Yeah, Chuck. I just gotta call him Patrick. He's not the one. Oh, you don't have a cerebral. I thought you'd reference the magneto helmet
Well, no, I was referencing. What was it called again? Sorry, bro. Okay. Yeah, that's what I was talking about
I just forgot the name of the helmet. See most people think you're talking about magneto. You're a bad Mima
Well, sorry that everyone else forgot that
Xavier has a helmet too. Let's leave the other helmets juggernaut also has a helmet also
I realized there's loads of super chats
I need to read but I like do you want us to stop this video or do we take a break for that too?
I feel like we should probably do it help me through the video or something. Otherwise, we'll never get going
Yeah, we gotta get on track. I'm sure there might be a time stamp
for when we actually start
efapping
But we don't so that's fair enough. All right, everyone good to go
Yeah, yeah, yeah, excellent. Hi. Welcome to my youtube channel
My name is detail detective and I'm here to tell you why all your favorite media is terrible in my five-part video
This I hate her already
She has a night veil poster I noticed that wait, what's my bail
Oh, is it is it to not be spoken of
No, I've heard I have I have I've heard of it
He who shall not be named but it's made it's oh
man, oh
Yeah, and she's totally she's playing a character right now in case the oh she is. Okay. Okay. I gotcha
So is she just dumb like design? No, she's gonna pretty she's posing as what we get now, which is five-part
You know, I'm gonna give a benefit of the doubt I'll just let this play out you'll you'll get the joke
This children's show is garbage and she's why part one the plot
So in this frame fairy princess sparkletina's sash is sky blue and in the next shot of her her sash is
Clearly the animators do not care about I was into more than 200,000. Whoa who did that?
a
Jumped wolf. I didn't do it
What I did
Bloody sword when he was a baby
Let me guess cuz she doesn't want to kill anyone. We all know what that means
Sparkletina's a fascist fairy princess adventure is officially canceled. I agree
It's like you get it right like the idea of taking something called fairy princess and analyzing it
so deep to the point where you draw political motivations out of it and
you take a tiny issue like changing of a small color in a frame of a piece of clothing and you
reference that as the
Reason the animation is fucking dreadful because I agree with both of those points. But the funny thing is I think
Those points applied as people that aren't us not that I'm saying she's directing it less. She doesn't mention us or reference us
I'm just saying
She's mocking a person called Lily orchard. Who's that? Oh, I know I've never heard of them
I
Think it's interesting though. What one thing she said
I don't agree that all art is political. I think that's nonsense
I think that people conflate that with the idea that if you're anal enough you can find anything and somehow attach something political to it
I've heard the argument that if you take those right the hell retribution was so political if you don't know stance
I was politics that is a stance there for everything is politics
I
Think they I think it's used as a justification
I think so too for a lot of people to put politics into things and say well
It was political all along or something along those lines
But I don't agree that all is political and I'm thinking about doing I would make the argument that some things are intrinsic to humanity
Irrelevant of politics and be like like what like I don't know breathing oxygen. There's nothing political in relation to that
Apples are not political apples. What if policy?
Unless it's an organic apple that is very good and to you
I'd be like, what about a policy to increase GMOs or some crap that affects the apples?
What about people who are like, I don't eat fruit because they're it's evil
What?
Well, I don't eat apples because that's what made Adam and Eve be all bad and then we all are damned for some reason
Red apples exist. Is there a scenario?
Everything to be made political is like possibly but I just I hate the idea that you can watch a movie and then you're like
They didn't say anything political. That is a stance
Like it is
But yeah, you know
The idea that you nitpick policy nitpick media until you pull politics out of it
Which is what I think a lot of people do. Yeah. No, I agree. But I think it's happening
When critics criticize critics like, you know how we've been told we're all right all the time like
Drawn from what and it's like who will they watch you are?
Anything else? Yeah, they're really long on Twitter and people would say I'm alt right or an or I support
Autocracy or ridiculous things like that. I'd say could you provide evidence for that and like never can
You know, I was like why where do you even get these things?
Remember when we covered movie Bob and he said he was doing a parody of like people criticizing black panther and he took quotes
from my video one for one and then he started talking about like
political positions in relation to I think it was race I can't remember or
Migration or immigration. Sorry
to imply
The I may be criticizing black panther, but it's a political undertone and if you watch my black panther video
There isn't a politic there is pointing there
Even when even when
Simpsons went after me for he didn't actually say I had a like there's nothing political
He just thought I got bits in the wrong film wrong. Well, it's so easy nowadays to do the whole
Oh you criticize this thing. Well, I think that's a political political
Well, the thing is if you criticize black panther and I believe that black panther is inherently political
That means that what you're doing is you're taking an opposing political stance to what in my mind black panther is saying politically
Which means you hate black people?
And yes, I think this problem
This problem exists for critics of critics, which is why this is getting very meta, but
Yeah, it's so I don't necessarily agree with disagree with hers what I'm getting at depends on who she's aiming it at
Know what that means?
Sparkleteen is a fascist fairy princess adventure is officially did you see that? Did you guys know about that movie going to 39? Oh
Don't worry about it should be fine. Um, the the movie's guy something about superheroes. I forget. I came out like ten years ago
Okay, there's a guy who made a video recently explaining how sky high is fascist
See everyone's reaction is laughing and it's like I haven't seen the video but I
Haven't seen that movie since I was like 10 but people who think that Starship Troopers is fascist. So
Well, I mean red. Let me think that right here. Well, here's the thing Starship Troopers is fascist
in a very good way, it's not though was the thing I I've seen the arguments against that and I I
Actually find I really want the people on both sides to have a really a good discussion about that
You know, I mean like figure it out because I'd love redlet media to think about is it really fascist or not and to reconcile
Let's just say the additional information about the movie because um, I love Starship Troopers. It's fucking great
It's a bug planet
It's afraid
So the federation did nothing wrong this is this is absolutely true
Over the past three years media criticism and video essays have blown up in popularity
Lindsay Ellis's channel went from about 5,000 subscribers at the beginning of 2016 to more than half a million now
Dan Olson or folding ideas has gone from about
2000 to more than 200,000 and scores of new video essay channels like me big Joel or Taylor J. Williams have started popping up
I know Lindsay Allison folding ideas. I don't know the other ones she mentioned
I haven't even I don't even know who Lindsay Ellis gives me
It gives me the impression that her let's call it
What would you say like her selection is a little biased in that one of my favorite video essays?
Well, I've got a relatively unknown specific old tv show essayist
I got a guy who covers old video games and how they've
Uh been sort of how their legacy and what they meant and then a guy who does gun reviews there as video essays then
er, you know, I don't even need to explain that and then
Join me like this. The uh, the ones I would recommend are completely fucking different
While the ones she's just recommended are all like they go out together and hang out regular
And I know you can say that about us
But i'm saying like yeah, if you said my favorite some mauler rags and wolf i'd be like, oh he probably watches efap
like
If to me if you're gonna be making a broad criticism or celebration
Yeah, she just listed all the people that would be in a youtube rewind
Yeah, i'm interested in how it seems like she's not really selected from a from a larger group behavior whatever that's not necessarily bad
Who knows what arguments are like?
Quantity doesn't always equal quality and sadly a lot of what passes itself off as good faith media criticism is not
In particular content like cinema sins the nostalgia critic and more recently a lot of multi-hour video essays dedicated
Certain shows end up doing i haven't done a show yet
You're right what I don't know if cinema sins is bad faith
Um, he said he sometimes will deliberately lie for a joke
Does that count as bad faith?
Um, I mean, it's like if a stand-up comedian makes up a story about their friend to tell a joke. I think um
I
I don't know if if you're doing something for comedy, you know, that's sort of its own thing
It's sort of like comedy exists in sort of its own bubble
Yeah, i'm not sure i'd be comfortable in saying that she's uh, that cinema sins is bad faith
Yeah, I don't know if i'd say that either. I tend to give people the benefit of the doubt, you know
Yeah, I think it's called being you know deliberately obtuse
You know pretending to be an idiot
To sell a joke. Um, i've done i've done that a couple times her multi-hour thing because some people like is that directed to me?
I don't think it's directed to me. I'm not sure she knows about my channel
Um, she mentioned lily orchard earlier. Oh, you guys mentioned in chat that that's who she was
Parroting lily orchard has done multi-hour series of critique on
Cartoon tv shows so I think that's what she's referencing
And
Nostalgia critic is bad faith. Yeah, I wouldn't I don't think i'd go i'd say that
I think I'd just say bad content
Maybe I mean
But that's a different thing
I mean, I would say most people who make bad content are doing it in good faith
Also, if people say it is directed to me like it is directed to me
What do you want me to do? She just if she just says it's long i'm like
Okay
arm, then they do good
I know this is probably pretty ironic coming from the person who likes to make videos complaining about certain tv shows for a living
Especially because I too like to use attention grabbing titles and thumbnails to encourage people to watch my videos
And it's very possible that some of my own videos have fallen into some of the traps that i'm going to talk about here
I mean i'd like to think the stuff I make is, you know analytical and good
But i'm not discounting the possibility that it isn't always along a similar vein
I'm also not saying that the people who create bad media criticism are bad people just the content they create
All right, you just called people doing things in bad faith though. Yeah
So that's so that's a character assessment just to clarify bad faith means you did it
uh like with
For to make it simple. It's like to be disingenuous or for bad reasons. Yeah, you're deliberately dishonest
you're doing it with the intention to lie to the person or to to manipulate them or
You'll do it. Yeah what you just said dishonest intentions would be you can't say that people are doing things in bad faith
But also i'm not saying they're bad people. It'll be like those are kind of if I broke down a scene and I said, I don't know
uh
Jim wanted to do everything to kill this character and then there's this moment in the scene with jim goes
I just I don't want to kill this guy. I'll do anything to stop it and I just go
Just leave that out of my analysis. It gets in the way
Like it's ruining my uh, my point. So i'm just gonna leave that out and you'd be like, well, that's not
You're not being you're not being honest then i'd be like
I think that's probably part of what she's referencing to be honest, which I
agree with
Again, like this this this in concept is fine. I think what she's saying because it's all true
The people who exist who do that
A lot of people that chatter pointing out what she doing with our hands
She's using it to explain things
Good what I primarily want to talk about is bad faith criticism of media and why I think it's ultimately
Harmful to be in my opinion good idea of analyzing the things we like
So first of all, how did we get here?
Oh lord, no
So I saw the phrase brief history i'm gonna take a bathroom break i'll be right back
Oh, it makes sense it does somehow make sense I love how he assumes you saw quinton he's like, oh I gotta take a shit
Wait, wait, where's quinton
Oh you guys for some reason i've noticed on you have everybody's like three seconds ahead of me
Oh shit 3 19. Oh no
Here's the real weird thing mauler I seem to for the first time ever actually be perfectly in sync with you. Oh, well excellent
Your hand movements are jesticles that makes total sense
I'm just gonna keep posting jarred's face now makes me happy
Oh my god that video with thor jared
It was so perfect
Ah
I guess um rags is probably gonna be back in a few seconds. I feel like starting up to super chest is gonna be
pointless
He's gonna go on the newspaper you well you did say last time it goes outside
I
Think was it since it was like you go outside then he was like i'm not gonna shit where I sleep
Um, I wish I had started oh it was a him come on rags you can do it
Waiting for him to swear loudly
So
Is that all coming from rags's bike
I've returned
accident
Rags, are you making a cyborg you ready for a brief history of vita chris's chris's of positism
No
Sure. I'd love to hear a brief history of youtube media criticism. Let's do it. It all began with a trip to the zoo
Oh
I love it. I actually was recommended that video were leer today. Yeah, really
Yeah, I get recommended a lot of videos from like 10 years ago for some reason
Criticisms of various films tv shows games and podcasts on youtube are not new in fact
They've existed ever since the platform did and if you follow any history of youtube
Most people will cite the angry video game nerd as one of the first youtube content creators to bring media criticism into the collective consciousness
Of mainstream was created james roll. Damn it. Did you skip for anybody else just then?
We're at two minutes 36 seconds right now, you're like jumped and I always wonder if it was just me or not
I think it's just she's got really weird editing
I'm pretty sure that was the video about maybe the collective consciousness of mainstream youtube in 2006 shortly after youtube was created
James rolf started posting videos where you would play james ralph
And this is an interesting case
This is a guy who in his early videos was definitely playing a character
In these videos the nerd was the butt of the joke
The intention was to laugh at this pathetic guy getting overly offended about old video games
But I would agree though. It's not that he didn't highlight genuine issues with these games
Yeah, that doesn't invalidate what the character says. I'm not saying she's saying that. Yeah. No, that's true
You gotta be very careful with this
So, yeah, what she said is technically true. I just want to have the addendum that uh
When you'd watch his videos you would get informed as to how these games would or would not uh be shit
I'll be the easy way to put it
Even though he's playing a character
But a strange thing started happening people took his reviews seriously
They liked him pretty soon rolf started making serious reviews and it's so strange that they decided to take him seriously
That's crazy. It's almost like this whole time they found a reason
To find him serious like you can you can play a character like plinket
Plinkets a character, but you can take him seriously because he's saying serious things
It's like he makes one he makes one joke and it's like well the whole thing's a joke and it's like no
No, when he like does a serious breakdown of the characters of the phantom menace. I don't think he's joking
And it's good to see mccally colkin out there, you know, he seems like a nice guy we should get him on the app
Oh god mccally colkin, please
I can't spell your name your weird fucking name, but please
Please come on to efap with us and please bring some of your meth
No, I hear he's a really nice guy, I mean we you can tell he's a nice guy most of red light media shit
Let's just yeah
You can be a meth head and a nice guy at the same time. This is
As possible yeah doing doing meth is not anti-meth head
Dude, greg sistero greg sistero talked with him and they both wore bunny ears for the whole show. It was great
This is reasons why you should definitely come on just saying also, um ben shapiro if you want to come on efap
If you want to we will humanize your platform
Guys we can't humanize the jews we know this
You need to get that list that manifesto who we can humanize from quinton
Pretty soon rolf started making serious reviews of video games and sharing his genuine opinions
Not only that but other youtubers quickly started holding between her fingernails
Do you think she's she like plucked a fly out of the air? I was just about to say that
That would be holding a small fly. She didn't kill it. She didn't kill it. It's right. It's struggling
Yeah, so guys make sure you look at her eyes if she glances down and gives it like a glare
Then we'll know that she's like torturing it. She's like slowly
Painfully squeezing the fly to death. Oh, that's a terrible thing
Highland why couldn't the happy fly be stroked by here?
People are gonna say that we don't focus on the real criticism
and
We're just having a fun we're just having some funsies with whoever this is. I don't even i've never I don't know this person
Never heard of alt right youtubers maula wolf and rags
Like a criticized video for hand gesture hate women
Literally more than anything else. I mean, yeah, you know, it is such a strange hand gesture though
It's like she doesn't know what to do with her
That but other youtubers quickly started to imitate his format even going so far as to hashtag save the fly
Save save save jeff goldblum, please
But to imitate his format even going so far as to oh she let it go jokes and criticism
Oh no, because it's already been discussed if you haven't seen no, no, he has never made an interesting video in his life
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. She likes quinton. So we're gonna have to put up look you you could see the outline of his unibrow
I won't talk about this too much mainly because it's already been discussed. Okay, if you haven't seen it
He must have just shaved it
Vast yesterday, maybe he he's got a five o'clock shadow on the bridge of his nose. I forget which
His mouth looks like an elk vagina
Look look in fairness, you know rags don't do it. Don't do it. Okay space v.a
Like oh my god
I went to the rocky mountains two years in a row and I saw a lot of elk
But I didn't think to myself, you know what? I kind of want it. That was your mistake. That was not a mistake
I just it's just a bunch of pictures of deer fucking
Even like what did you expect beautiful i'm very disappointed
Um, oh god
There's here we go nine amazing facts about the vagina from slide share
I mean, yeah because number four will shock you
Number four will shock you
Did you know that the vagina can expand by up to 200 percent?
I think i'm gonna say 200 meters or something
Like oh man, they they grow way bigger than I thought
I like in this video about nine amazing facts about the vagina fact number five is there is a g spot
Oh god
Did quinton write that there is a g spot
Oh my god, that's awesome fact number eight is don't shave your
I like ghost milk is in the cup
Uh, so yeah, we're gonna have to listen to what hit point
If you haven't seen it already a youtuber named quinton reviews had a very interesting video about the angry video game nerd's influence
Over youtube as a whole and i'll link it below. Uh, well, I saw that video
He basically just reiterates what everybody already knew which is he came first. Uh, does anyone know irate gamer?
Does anyone not know irate gamer? Uh, I don't think so. He's just the most famous
avgn clone
He just did everything avgn does but worse and he actually got popular for a bit because of the fact that so few people were
Reviewing media, but then he fell off immediately as soon as like more and more people started popping up and he's just a famous
clone
And that's basically what quinton covers and it's like, okay
Fine, you know
I wouldn't I wouldn't say he goes much further than that
But apparently she thought it was pretty good. So check out a quinton video if you guys want to
A year later a similar creator ostensibly playing an angry character doug walker or the nostalgia critic surfaced
His videos were similarly focused on getting obscenely mad over nostalgic content
The main difference being that he primarily focused on movies
Once again a similar theme started to surface
He initially chose to really separate himself from his character making it clear that the nostalgia critic was a pathetic nerd who got angry
Over nothing, but as his content became more and more popular his I don't I don't think that's a fair characterization of the character
Yeah, I don't know if nostalgia critic would agree with that. I think he'd be like, whoa
Chill out because he's made videos in the past that i've really liked
It's like I watched his video because we talked about him on on on a efap and I went and saw his
Um video on uh, the oprah wind free space thing. Um wrinkle in time. Oh, yeah
I like that video that he did on it. Like I I enjoyed it
so I
I mean
I don't know. I
He doesn't seem like I could
As far as the content goes
It's fine. I'm not sure if you know
If she's going for the whole like there's the people are combining the character and taking some jokes seriously and it's ruining media criticism
I think that's sort of the root here. I can't remember
And sometimes people don't really address if they're playing a character or not. It's like I don't
I don't play a character. I'm just me with
I'm just me, you know
So dog just that's just doing the thing man. You know, i'm around i'm at home all day
You know while the breadwinner without doing his thing. I figure might as well do something. Why is the video skipping around?
four minutes and 56 seconds
We're styles critic that's where we were. Yeah. Yeah, we we were looking at his really really really bad thinning hairline
How dare you he actually has shaved his hair now
Yeah, thank god advice to men since I was talking about shaving your vagina earlier for you guys
For you guys since you can't shave your vagina unless you're married
Then what you do is you need to when you start going bald just
Take it off man. Did you just rely that by marrying a female that you own here and thus have a joint ownership over her
That's what the bible says. That's what the bible says mauler. That's the word of god tag rags is bad
Fine fine. Have your play do it for you. Jesus. Fine. Well, that's another matter
I'm just glad I started shaving my head before it ever got that bad
Yeah, man. It's not a bad look
I don't think it is a lot of guys really looks better than I expected it to be
Yeah
Some there are some people I think guys like kind of look better bald than with whatever hair they had anyway
Like I think I look a lot better than I did trying to cover up my thinning hairline
I mean that's my beard kind of cancels it off cancels out rather. Well, it looks like it's you know, it
People never look at a bald guy and it's like that guy, you know, he's got a thinning hairline
No, they're like he just doesn't have he's hey in fairness
If I am ever mocked by a bunch of children for being bald a bunch of bears will come out and maul them
So that'll be it'll be nice. Did I miss something? Did did lauren say that a red apple was communism?
Was that yeah
A red apple is this communism? No because no because there's no food in communism
Ah, right
That's like your wolf. So you're saying you're a skinhead. Yes. Yes. He has skin on his head as we all do
Yeah
That's only skin. I thought you were a real wolf done done. Oh, that must be oh, yeah
He's very obsessed with the whole wolf thing. And yet he can't grow hair all over his body thick and furry
I can grow it everywhere except for my scalp. Apparently just get a transplant easy
Content became more and more popular his videos became more about sharing his genuine thoughts
In fact nowadays he hosts content on so that that implies that what his character says aren't his genuine thoughts
I think she's going to draw so
Sometimes it will be sometimes it won't be I think is going to be her point
Because if I remember this correctly
She shows clips from his genuine thoughts quote unquote and then clips from his nostalgic video for the same movies and they're the same statements
Yeah, I guess it goes into what we said earlier with even if there's a character on screen that someone's playing their thoughts
That's I mean, they don't have genuine things to say
Yeah, would you what do you guys think about this nostalgic critic? Was he good for media criticism or bad overall?
um
Hey, can I just do neutral because I'd never liked his content in the first place
The reason I want to say neutral because I don't know. I don't know if if he's had an overall bad effect or good effect
He's probably inspired people to make videos
The videos that i've seen i've liked so
From unless he has like some sort of crazy thing that i'm not aware of i'm going to say it's been positive
Because like i'm just trying to think of the argument. It'd be like oh, he's encouraged nitpicking. I'd be like, but
That's not specifically bad. It depends. It's like yeah, I wouldn't necessarily say that's bad at all
And you can be like the way people use the word nitpicking these days. Yeah
So, I don't know
Let's just let's see more from her argument with the line between what the character thinks and oh god
Just seeing doug walker talking while hearing her voice for a second. I was like, wait, why is her voice coming up?
It's not always a huge leap either
He's got a very he he not only has a high pitch voice, but he high pitches it
deliberately, so
I'm doug walker. I did my balls haven't dropped since i was six. I think it's it's a presented thing, right?
So they have so what you're saying is that they have dropped
Yes, that was dropped a long time ago is what you're saying. Well, they dropped then shriveled up and like fell
That immediately that's an important footnote
Yeah, I feel um, yeah use the whole like hello. I'm the nostalgia critic. I remember it
So you don't have to it's like the whoa
Whoa
I think i'm quirky. Yeah, it reminds me of like, um
Kids tv presenters sort of things where they're like, hey everyone
Let's do it. It's like fuck you
Yeah, it probably breaks on my nerves at times
Blurred until you got a sort of review style that was just an angry guy sharing his genuine negative opinions about media
But like with a lot of screaming and swearing and this review style angry man screams about how terrible things are
Did dominate youtube for a long time?
I mean, isn't that what my rages kind of are?
I mean as long as the criticisms are good, that's fine with me
I was about to say I don't think I have a problem with angry man rages at thing because that's entertainment usually
That's I mean, that's why we like it being angry rather than neutral, isn't it?
Well, you know how I bet most of to be fair. I bet most of them were
Wyatt white was it so
Deca deca shadow deck shade something I forget the name of the youtuber
But he made the video he made on predator when it came out
It just empathized him so much because he just gets so fucking angry talking about all the the stupid law breaks and how stupid
The film is and seeing the person get angry or like yes
Yes, rip it apart
When I get angry they like connect with it, you know, they say wow he really cares about it
He's like I generally when I as long as i'm not being hyperbolic
And I don't use it so much that people don't know when it's real or not when I get angry
I
People tend to appreciate that
That's just been my feedback
Yeah, I know just maybe i'm just funny when i'm mad. I don't know I think
In the case of them being angry or neutral the important part is the accuracy I would say
Yeah, we can bring he's hilarious when he's mad, but that's supposed to because he's got an australian accent and they're just naturally funny
That's true
That's not to say that channels based on thoughtful critiques of various forms of media didn't exist
You did have some similar channels who were affiliated with channel awesome that made analytical content
I mean Lindsay Ellis started making videos. Oh, that's okay. I don't I can't speak to
Nostalgia chicks content back in channels some days. I don't remember it. I don't remember many people's to be honest. Yeah, I don't know
It's weird
Sometimes she has like really excellent content and then like she forgets how to make good content
Because i've seen good videos and bad videos from her
Her hobbit videos were really great and I was like, oh, maybe I should subscribe
And then she made like some other video right after that and I was like, oh, let me guess
It was women deserve equal rights and you hated it
Absolutely
I knew it an eight albeit not remotely at the same analytical level as her videos today
But with a few notable exceptions like beyond the trailer these youtubers were not the ones receiving the most clout rather
Critics who were the most popular pre who's this guy?
Angry screaming dude mold and aspiring critics mostly imitated them. Hey, I don't know any look at all
I don't know. There are these people either look look they're all white
So they're all the same I recognize grace randolph and Lindsay
Alice the two that she said they fell away and these guys took the stage. I don't even
Is it like isn't that grace chick isn't that grace chick known for being really terrible now
She's lost everyone's face. I I was you know
I never knew a lot about it, but I saw her solo and I think predator review
I can't remember but I remember she like, you know, genuine. This is just my feelings on the matter, but she came across very um
She was paid to write this review
Not not paid to give it a good review paid to writers and she was taken out there given a screening given food and board
Or whatever and told like yeah, here's a kisser. It's like like the kind of reviewer that makes me feel like
Here's your special screening we paid for your plane ticket. Enjoy your fancy water bottle
Yeah, she might absolutely be genuine. Uh, and and I
I don't think I've I don't think I thought if reviews were like bad, but i've heard that people are less. Um
Encouraged like she was celebrating that she got onto rotten tomatoes
I kind of see that was like the kiss of death. It's like why do you want to be on there as a reviewer?
But it's more official. I'd be like, oh, that's interesting that I was on rotten tomatoes
I'd be like, huh. That's that's a thing
I mean, luckily
I wouldn't be able to be going on there because I don't think i've ever given a star rating or a number rating for a
Movie or thing or anything. I'd be like nope
Well, they your rating is hours of commentary. Yeah, and i'm like
Fucking it's just bad. This film only earned three hours of commentary from mauler. So that's like a six out of ten
Um, all right youtube's increase in popularity, especially in early 2010 saw a notable increase in the diversity of review content
This is when a lot of channels who are now household names began to make videos
Among others cinema sins screen rant ralph the movie maker and the black nerd began regularly uploading reviews all using different styles and formats
Some of these worked and some of these did not while the angry screaming dude style content did continue to be popular
We also saw the rise in drunken peasants in the chat
The official drunken peasants channels in the chat. That's hello official drunken peasants. Hi vin. I was on there
How's it going ben? I assume that's bad. Are you on rotten tomatoes?
I don't think so then go to your room
This is perfect for the charity mode
Yeah, i'd like to wonder if that's ben or if that's billy i'm hoping it's ben pai. I would guess ben pai. Hi
He says hi. Hi
Hi ben pai. We're um, we're attacking this innocent youtuber. That's what we're currently up to
These did not while the angry screaming dude style content did continue to be popular
We also saw the rise in formats like two or three people sit down and talk about movies unscripted or stylized reviews with original
Visuals and one particular format that's recently taken the internet by storm is the video essay. It's hard
That's a strange history
She sort of said like it started sort of with avgn and then everyone started doing the ranty thing
It's a brief history. I guess it's a condensed like I could like I could go to the bathroom and
Like read this and be like, okay. I have a brief understanding of youtube criticism
I'm, just trying to say like I think she was trying to draw a through line
So it went from angry avgn to people taking him seriously and generating a lot of angry channels that review media
And then a bunch of people were born from that that changed the style to not be so angry question mark and then video essay
Sort of came around. I don't really see the connections like I can accept that as a history. I just don't
Honestly, I see people sitting in front of webcam. I mean it's a big it's a big swath of stuff that covers a lot of things
So
Hard to say exactly who was the first youtube video essayist mainly because the first youtube videos that functioned as formalized essays read out
Loud over clips from whatever's being reviewed weren't yet calling themselves video essays
With that said one of the earliest very popular people to use this format to criticize media was the nerd writer
And I agree with that nerd writer is one of the earliest ones. I remember doing
What that sort of thing is you uh, you know the nerd writer right wolf?
No, no, oh wait, yes, I do. Yeah, because I just forget who he is every time I hear his name
He's made this is another guy who i've seen some videos from him. I'm like, that's cool
And some of his almost like i'm falling asleep. Okay, it's just me and he does he does the super does the essay voice
Uh, he sounds just right. I feel is a clone of
nerd writer
Um not to say that he can't do anything good like because clones can be good
But um, he really feels like he sort of was generated as a result of just right
But I guess a lot of people work as just right sort of popularized that could be fine
I mean it's often really good for me to get like the same thing
Like sort of the same thing but like a different person and their different take on it, you know
A lot of it comes down to personality. That's the thing
Someone said you decide you have videos by request if someone requested one of their own videos
Would you do an ef about it? So it's it's we take requests. We don't necessarily we take requests and mauler decides for us
Yeah, like we'll we usually check them out and we're like, oh could this be suitable?
There's a lot of criteria. But um
Like that the tlj ones i've gotten like 40 different ones and we've only covered I think I want to say six maybe
Evan i'm not sure but um, we're not gonna cover them all because some of them are like
It's me
Some of them are like major leads where I would have said that's tismi but everyone's like please cover it please like okay
We could probably get some entertainment out of it if you guys really want to see it sort of thing
but then you know, you get people making essays about how I
Dropping it down to the specific hour number and then clarifying that I hate tlj more so than I love soma
Is that that's normal?
Although his first video upload was over seven years ago
His initial videos were primarily unscripted vlogs where he discussed his thoughts on various issues like Scientology and the Iraq war around late
2013 he started transitioning to film reviews still using the face cam format without any supplementary materials to talk about movies like The Hobbit
Then in May 2014
He made a video called the mythic potential of comic book films in which he discussed various comic book movies with visual and auditory
Accompaniment from that moment on all of his videos began to use this format to massive success
The nerd writer now has nearly two and a half million subscribers of far cry from his blog days
Another youtube channel every frame of painting began using the same format around the same time. Yay
I actually like every frame of painting
I still I recommend pretty much all of their videos
They're another person that's the problem because everyone tried to copy them and it takes more than just I mean
I say this basically just repeating what's in my part one video, which some of you probably even remember
It's just that same point. I mean he's so copyable. We even copied his name
Exactly, we stole it created by two friends Taylor Ramos and Tony Zhou their first video analyzing the 2009 film mother
It was posted in April 2014
2009 film mother. I'm pretty sure that came out last year
Let me take a look. Oh, no. Yeah, there's two films called mother. Yeah, too. Yeah. Oh, yeah the one by um,
Oh the guy, um
Oh fuck June hoe bong
Yeah, all I remember is the bong I'm sorry
He was the guy who he was involved with the development of uh getting
I want to say that he helped get the snow piercer movie made. Oh, really? That's cool. Yeah
So, uh, he's it's safe to say he's a big wizard or wizard of Oz
Not all asian willy wonky fan we will back willy wonka god, I can't speak william wallace fan
He did this. I think yeah, i'm the big william wallace fan too
I think he saw I think he fat he found a like a bootleg korean translated version of the comic that snow piercer was
based off of
and
He got some people together and he did like the story for the film and the opening of the presentation was we need a sequel
to willy wonker, okay
Yes, yes, no piercer
Like what because it it just so happens that the other day I watched a video about that
So that's why I know this it's very strange how it just so happened
It's to that that's because I know that it's very strange
Well, you're strange, you know, I am lily wonka is the origin story of snore piercer
Change my mind
It's a new dc superhero who's the he's more powerful the longer he sleeps you snore piercer
Look after that jared video, I just had to yeah, yeah blame on jared. Yeah. Yeah, he went to
Music by me
These videos focused primarily on the technical elements of filmmaking like different ways to visually portray text messages on screen
Or how to best use music to portray emotion
Although their last video was posted in september 2016 and they've officially announced the end to their channel the format popularized by these two channels
Remains massively successful and every frame of painting still boasts a million do what I mean
They're like up to this point. I pretty much entirely agree with her because it's mainly conceptual
Sure. Yeah, I think she's making strong enough points
She could be more specific, but I don't think she's she's not specific enough. I think it's fine
And a half subscribers despite its two-year long inactivity
Although it's doubtful that these two channels were the first people to ever create youtube video essays
They were some of the most popular in the formats early days from there many channels followed the video essay craze
Now you see it started his channel and began creating videos in june 2015
Lindsay ellis made her first video essay in april 2016
This was when her channel began to grow into the double digits and folding ideas posted his first
The double k digits, I don't know like the triple quadruple quintuple sextuple I think she meant
Wait, is it quintuple or pentuple?
Uh, well that depends you should stick you should keep the language the same
So if you're gonna go with quadruple, you know what? You don't want to mix the latin and greek
You think I know the difference between latin and greek?
I assume I assumed
I could google it because you're smart
What's a smart? How dare you? I don't I don't know. I mean, honestly really rags judging people on their intelligence you bigot
He has posted
His first video essay in august 2016 once again receiving a massive boost in followers
Most of these essays primarily focused on either the usage of specific filming and editing techniques to achieve certain effects in film
Overarching trends in several films or things we may not have noticed about specific films like inglorious bastards or phantom of the opera
The first really popular video essays that were primarily
Aspects didn't really work were lindsey ellis's again
That's not to say she was the first person ever to do it
But she was definitely one of the first people to get really
Is she gonna like explain why she thinks certain people don't work or is she just going to say it?
Well, if everyone just goes with it still got a chunk of video left
So I still think this is setup. I guess true, but she's also said this about like someone else
I don't remember who it was
It was somewhere closer to the beginning of the video where she says some people do when do not work
And I don't understand why I mean I would say that lindsey ellis doesn't work all the time and I could make arguments for it
I just want to know if she's going to well
We're kind of waiting for it to make a statement that we can actually respond to and I guess that's what you highlight in right?
It's like she's sort of saying things that are just definitively true. So we can't really do anything
Well, not even all definitively true because some of the people she's mentioned i've never heard of
Well popular doesn't mean you heard of it, right?
I I actually agree with her that nidwright is pretty popular and uh, yeah
It's just a matter of whether or not we can really comment on to it much
Yeah, I don't think we need to say like define what you mean by popular and then hit her over the head with like a frying
pound double digits is popular
Hey triple digits is popular. I mean jared just reached like 500 subs
He had an interview with a skeleton
It's a superstar
Oh jared explaining why certain things were bad have existed since youtube did we have things like
Cinema sins and the nostalgia critic but this format an analytical one that was presented in the same style as a formalized essay was relatively new
Once again, this or the appearance of a formalized video essays
Which brings me to one video in particular that I want to talk about sherlock is garbage
And here's why is a video essay posted in may 2017 by game critic and leftist youtuber h bomber guy
So have you any of you guys seen that video? No, no
I have I think it's really good. Uh, I watched sherlock the show up until season three and I wasn't a fan
At that point and I feel like his video goes over a lot of why that's happened and the first I think half of it
Maybe a third of it is him giving a history for what sherlock is and how it came to be
In a tv show and the important elements of of what sherlock homes as a character is and how the show
Sort of fucks that up and how it fucks it up itself. Anyway, I think it's a good video
And this is part of the whole I think h bomber guy is perfectly capable of making good videos
It's just sometimes he doesn't and that's the interesting thing is his ds2 when it's fucking dreadful and I think
She's probably unaware of that or whatever because you know, the whole bad faith thing we were talking about
He like took mathematosis out of context
Deliberately, there's like no real way around it
I'm glad she pointed out that these youtuber is a leftist. I mean
Um, I mean it is it is interesting that she said I agree
But it's interesting that she pointed that out
It is over half of his content is media criticism
The other half is responding to anti-sjw's so you could say it's a part of his content that he's a leftist
Yeah, I mean he is a leftist
because if you
I mean I was about to say if you were to refer to us you wouldn't use political. It's like no they do though
They say we're alt right
Because because oftentimes if you're a leftist and you make videos or you make content or your right or anything
It will never be discussed
But if you're anything that isn't a leftist often your political opinions
Will be inserted into descriptions of you whether or not it's even relevant
Yeah, I think that's probably gonna be the only reference to it. I don't know if she's gonna go on about that
Yeah, I just I think it's interesting. I wish I have no problem with it at all. I think it's interesting that she says it
Hi, it's nearly two hours long and it goes into an exhaustive list of the various problems associated with the popular bbc show sherlock
I definitely found myself disagreeing with certain aspects of the video
But on the whole it's a well-researched video that makes several legitimate points about issues
Even if I don't fully agree with every criticism he mentions
I think it's a well-made attempt to engage in good faith with a show he dislikes and I don't have anything negative to say about it
Wouldn't that be a negative thing to say? Oh, well, I guess if she's saying she doesn't agree rather than he had bad points
Then that's not negative
then again the word negative is
Used all the time. What does that mean these days? Yeah, it's like more to criticize tlj, which makes him negative
It's like oh, is that how that works?
Like yeah, of course, you're gonna respond. Of course, you're gonna respond negatively to a shitty movie
We'll see if people make videos about the room no one says you're a negative
Yeah, and if is it responding
neutrally to just have the natural response or is it because if I go into hate something
It's really good. And I'm just like I fucking hate it. Anyway, I know you're being a bit negative
but it is strange that she would say that cinema sins and
Um nostalgia critic are in bad faith when you have her also referring to h bomber guy
Well, this is the problem things he does that are in bad faith
He's definitively at least done one thing that's what I don't think any of us would say is a small issue the whole
Sailing matthew mattosis. His video is basically being lies about dark souls too. It's like
Don't do that and then take it out of context. It's like we're well versed in that so we even know about it
Yeah, it's like if anyone's bad faith that you've mentioned so far
He seems to fit the bill the most well the fact that she's referenced quinton is making a good video. You're like, hmm
Um
Well, you're nazi
Thank you
Just pop that on the end there before we continue
Yeah, the video currently has nearly 3 million views and just like the angry video game nerd of days of old
It's inspired several in the days of old i'm i'm curious no mention of plankett
Yeah, god, she comes to the fly again
Plinket I would say is very influential. Uh, I think so too very like even articles and stuff
Especially when plinkett made is the last jedi review and a bunch of quite frankly lefties
We're all bitching and moaning about it because it talked about how the movie was bad
Did you see that the article was like this was red?
Let me just test and they failed sort of yeah something like that
And they would mention that plank a lot of these articles mentioned that plankett
Kind of got a lot of this ball rolling in terms of film criticism. Someone's just mentioned yms
I'm assuming they're saying like is influential. I agree
But do you know that yms is like almost like 90 percent influenced by red layer media like self-admitted
His yms his first video is like a one-for-one attempt at being red layer media or one of his earliest ones
He like goes he puts on the plankett voice sort of it's like number one
And then does the problem thing and i was like shit. This is like
Literally plinkett, but he found his own style and he has thus influenced a bunch of other people make more yms
Yeah, he just put one that on hiatus like it was supposed to come out like before this month
But it's not coming out in january and i'll just like fuck
That's what that's your namesake
Well
He's getting there
You just gotta get a few more quickies out. Let him do that first
The thing is because i've been called lazy so
This potential context to explain exactly why he's taking a while. I'm not saying he's lazy
Oh, no someone in chat because I really like them i want to chat so he's lazy. No, you it's okay. Love your rights
It's okay
Those are less good as far as I can find the first use of the blank is garbage in here. Is that a format?
Um
I do actually agree with her that people are using that title and as far as I could tell it started with h bomber guy
And it bugs me the and here's y thing. That's what I called my april fool's video. I put and here's y on the end of it
It's I don't think but it's fallout three video. I don't think that was very well received was it it's full of
It's full of three. One was well received. Yeah. Oh wait, you mean uh in likes to dislikes
That's possible that it didn't go down. Well, but
From what I remember a lot of people were critically praising it. Just that uh
Um, let's just say as far as I could tell fallout fans were very upset with the video because I really liked it
So that means that how can he say that it's garbage when I liked it
Yeah, I would have to do more digging to know the truth on that one, but it is split quite heavily on terms of how many people
Liked it. It's just it's the video itself. It's weird that it's weird that when we say something is bad
People are down our fucking throats, but you know
Well, it's because he's being subjective here subjectivity is implied when he says he says fallout three is garbage
What he's saying is I think fallout three is garbage
Okay, but you see he doesn't have to put it that way because it's subjectivity allows you to get away with anything
It's inspired several copycats
Those are less good as far as I can find the first
Hey, she's getting there god, I know but where is this a bowler intro
We're like over a third of the way through
Copycats
Those are less good as far as I can find the first use of the blanket garbage in here
My youtube format originated with h bomber guide the first time he used it was in a video game review
Although that one actually has more views than his sherlock video
It was only after the sherlock review came out that people really started to imitate this title structure
Indeed the past year after his sherlock video came out has seen dozens of videos imitating both his titling conventions and the actual structure
of his content
Uh, you cannot what is that a stream that wouldn't be copying seven months ago six views
Six views after seven months
Six views after seven months. How do you you need a thousand subs to even stream? How does he have maybe?
Maybe it's not a stream. Maybe it's a clip in the video and they do it
Yeah, they recorded it and then maybe they uploaded it. It looks like they have a live chat though
Yeah, well, no, it says it would have said it would have said streamed seven months ago
So that is a re-upload. Oh, okay. Okay and leave shell and clark alone, man
They're just playing maricot 8 deluxe and discussing more weird stuff on the internet. Jeez
Shallot clark
This almost looks like it might be a joke though
So they're playing maricot clearly and they've titled the episode netflix's full mail alchemist is garbage
And here's why like almost like that's part of the discussion, you know, I don't think this is an actual analysis video
Oh ben pointed out. She said came oot
Can you she's canadian he's canadian canadian canadian canadians
Now everything makes sense
The sherlock video came out has seen dozens of videos imitating both his titling conventions and the actual structure of his content to varying degrees
of success
Two of the most popular videos imitating both h bomber guy's branding and his content are two videos by a youtuber named lily orchard
Respectively titled the legend of kora is garbage. And here's why and steve universe. Have you anyone seen these?
No, I actually now I actually orchard
I had I couldn't think of her off the top of my head, but I think i've seen at least half of
That kora video
But I don't know there's something about it that made me click off and I was really put off by the fact that she disabled ratings
Oh, yeah, generally if I see that someone has disabled ratings, I won't even watch the video
And like I hate I hate kora and
The fact that she made a video shitting on kora and just the fact that she disabled ratings
It was enough for me to be like, I don't want to watch your content. Really?
Yeah, I
Someone said a solid is calling something garbage. Really original and if
If I if someone doesn't have enough confidence in their own
To show their own like and dislike on their video, then I just I don't have it instantly cuts my investment
I just I loved eric's attempt to be like it makes sense because otherwise people will have an opinion before even seeing the video
It's like I realized that you've just caused that to happen
uh, but yeah, I
I'm not sure about this
I need to check out these videos because ultimately I I am firmly in the camp of
You can clone a channel
And be good at the same time as in like I could copy arguably better you because has anyone seen hack fraud media the channel?
No, so it's a channel. I've heard of it literally like a clone of plink it
but the the the point of it is to cover things that plinkett isn't covering
Right now and he's covered rogue one in plinkett style and force awakens in plinkett style
But the idea is that he's covering more of the plot the force awakens because plinkett sort of didn't
Do as much of that. I mentioned it in my video. Uh, it's
It's not even half bad and the comments are saying like drop the plinkett voice do your own
Like your content's good enough now. You don't even need to copy him
And I find that quite interesting because it's like he is a clone sure
But that's not the reason he's bad because he's not bad
And so these videos what i'm trying to say is just because they've copied h bomber guy's naming convention and possibly his style
Is that bad?
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know if she's saying if it's bad or good
And I don't even know if it's if that's the reason why i'm not sure
Because you know actually to catch myself in a contradiction I said that um just right is essentially a clone of
Uh, what's his name? Nude writer, but I mean if for anybody who's unaware, uh
Just right is what I would call a bad clone
He's inconsistent. He's he doesn't even realize his own standards wrap over himself
Which is supposed to be in my video he go. He he um invalidates the purpose of his channel on live streams you could say
Yes, and that's what i'm referring to so you could be a bad clone
But it's likely not even to do with the fact that you're a clone
It's more to do with the fact that you're a bad clone. If you know what I mean
Yeah, be a good clone. Don't be a good clone. If you're gonna be a clone
Yeah, i'm a bad clone of lyle
and rags is a bad clone of um
Who's that other?
dog who
reviews random things
Shit, uh, no, I got nothing
Cynical reviews cj. Yeah, you copied him 100. Oh, okay. All right, and I copied uh, who's is it plinking people?
mostly think i'm a clone of
Um
I don't know. I some people think you're a clone of hitler
They will yeah, he's in the random. Yeah, it's of a deep. I fucking remember that shit. Oh, man
Uh, the sober noble days. That was that was some good shit
Ah memories christiansen said satan mckittler
satan mckittler
Oh, yeah, sorry, there's some dp memes and meanwhile, uh might go over rags and double penetration. Yeah
Yes, ben. We were there both me and mauler. We didn't even know each other yet and we were there
Hashtag we were there
Yeah, hashtag. We were there
There used to be a gp clone called the random discussions of an inebriated variety
Oh, yes
Are similar links to h bomber guys at times use the same jokes as his and are structured in the exact same way
Interesting, but i'm not here to criticize those. Oh, there you go. She only said it's interesting apparently. She's not really saying that's bad
Okay. All right
Criticize those videos for being ripoffs or whatever nor are these the only videos that I want to talk about here
What I want to do is use these videos as well as channels like cinema sins and the nostalgia critic as examples of what happens
When good principles like comedy or criticism gets so distorted that they end up doing the exact opposite of good faith criticism
Here we go
This should be it then we're through the rabbit hole. Here we go
So now that everyone is on the same page vis-a-vis context i'd like to talk about some of the common
I'm gonna be honest. I I don't so I might be proven wrong here
But I get the impression that the last 10 minutes weren't necessary
Um, i'm not sure I 100% agree with that
I feel because she's done a lot of disclaimers
And the point of them are so that we can't ask questions like hey
You know, like she said something like just because someone's making bad stuff doesn't mean everything they do is bad
Although they're a bad person
Well, not all
Not all hashtag not all but I feel like like the history. I I almost feel like it's
Filler at this point, but we'll see
We'll see if features associated with media criticism. That is not good
Oh inauthentic nitpicking that is an interesting interesting wildfire inauthentic
Huh?
All right
Let's hear it
One interesting thing to note about some of these media critics is that their niche is centered around specific types of movies or shows
You have people who focus mainly on animated films people who focus mostly on religious media and people who focus specifically on things
That they don't like on its own. There's was that a jab?
What was it because I was expecting to say movies it's just the things you don't like it's like oh pull cinema sins
Watching so what a lot of these bigger channels do is they review whatever is topical at the moment
CGI jungle book movie coming out they'll make a video about the original jungle book new
So yeah, that's something that cinema sins do do but hey you said doo doo
But uh, you said a bad word I alt f10 i'm saving it i'm all they're saying doo doo
So
Yeah, your channel's doo doo because your videos are long. That's a more exposed video got him. Haha libtard owned
So people appointed this rags annihilate smallers with facts and reason oh no logic just facts and reason
No, no, no, no, look logic
But facts and reason was evil
doo doo bilbo baggins
Oh, hey, he's in chat
Cinema sins is indiscriminate to the films not just that but he loved the films that he gave sins to that is true
I guess yeah, you could say he's he's just covering them. He doesn't hate them all
I don't even think he hates a lot of them in his defense. He says every movie has sins
No movie is free of sin or something like that. I think so. Yeah
yes, so
Someone highlighted before that he he releases
Like he won't release the infinity war thingy until the hype for endgame starts starting up
He capitalizes on on hype and search terms and stuff
And so it's really bad. Well, this is the thing. It's like, okay
So explain to me why that makes the video bad. It's like no i'm saying it's like a dishonest way of
It's like how is it dishonest?
Is
The thing is that people will point to that and say see he's only doing it because it's popular
Which means he doesn't really want to do the video. So his heart's not in it. Okay. Wait, so
marketing strategy is not
Basic market marketing strategy is not a negative towards him as a fucking as as a content creator
Like that's what you're supposed to do
That's the thing if you've made if you've created a video you go
When do I release it as soon as it's done or is there a better time?
It's like well, sometimes go for the weekend because you know people will be free to watch it or maybe a particular time of day
And you go that's dishonest you're only releasing it then to get more views
Yeah, why are you releasing it at tuesday at noon or whatever the magic time is? I don't know
I upload videos at 4 a.m
I'm a real indie creator disclaimer not to say that she is saying this we are simply exploring the topic. Yes
That's all we're doing it's like why are people reviewing christmas movies in mid december?
What a bunch of chills?
What a bunch of chills?
You is they review whatever but we love her, you know her red hair. Oh, yeah, and and look
You think if you check into a hotel at three in the morning that person behind the desk really wants to fucking be there
Are you gonna say that her heart's not in it and that she's like her she's not, you know, come on
Also, if you say this video is called bad media criticism, that's actually kind of interesting with the whole subjective objective thing i'd have to ask her
If she considers it or depending or depending on how the video goes. It's an ironically appropriate title
Oh, I see what you mean
We're going meta. I like it
CGI jungle book movie coming out they'll make a video about the original jungle book new avengers movie coming out
They'll talk about something marvel a popular movie is about to be released to netflix
We'll talk about that one. Whatever is currently relevant is what's most likely to generate the most clicks and thus revenue
Ben has brought us a proposition
We're streaming for 24 hours from noon on new year's eve until noon on new year's day
If the efap guys want to come on
Um, I I can't say that i'll be around but if I am I can
I'm pretty much you guys a message to pass along the america is six hours behind me. Typically
I'm going to a friend's house for new year's eve and i'll be back home at like 1 a.m
My time and if they do it for 24 hours, that probably means
I could come on. I would probably be able to come on for like a little bit
Later on but I do have to work that night and i'm eastern standard
But yeah, I don't I don't know if i'll be home. I might be out and about for new years
So I can't say right shall we just say that we will all attempt to come on
If I'm I if I am able I will absolutely go on you bet
All right
That's um, i'll i'll message you on twitter
Ben with the results as in i'll probably contact rags and wolf and see if we can come on together or
Uh, tell you tell you when we can come on. I guess if that's good. Yeah, it should work out. It could be fun
We'll talk about how everything is terrible
And welcome in 2019
Like the shows we are
We only talk about things we hate
We only talk about star wars. Look at this video. It's just star wars
This girl is star wars. It's a card talk to someone else
Yeah
And I lost it because I forgot I didn't I forgot you were being sarcastic god damn it
I was gonna say she's more like, uh doctor who
It looks like she works
Her bed is her bed is like the universe
That's your opinion
It's the most revenue once again, there's nothing inherently wrong with talking about things that are popular
But when your niche is negative reviews and you're pretty much bound to review in specific movies
It no longer becomes about you giving your actual opinion. Okay, you're gonna have to rewind
That's the statement. Oh, wow. Let's hear that again folks. I got her hands again
Likely to generate the most clicks and thus the most revenue, okay
Once again, there's nothing inherently wrong with talking about things that are popular
But when your niche is negative reviews and you're pretty much bound to review in specific movies
It no longer becomes about you giving your actual opinion
So I think her point is yeah
If you're only going to be negative and you cover anything that's popular then it's probably not even going to be about your opinion anymore
It's just you trying to generate one that matches that criteria
She can be right about this in certain
Perspective in certain areas, but it doesn't mean it's not their opinion
Yeah
How do you how do you determine because when like when you say that something is being done in bad faith?
I tend to give people a benefit of the doubt because that's a character assessment of somebody and there's a reason why I would say
Somebody's doing something in bad faith
similarly
This is kind of getting into somebody else's head
So unless you see that being made manifest in some work that they do
Then I would I would wonder why
She's well people saying she's not wrong. Uh, she's done it as a catchall, which is why I think she is wrong
She's right in certain circumstances. For example, cinema sins is like I gotta rip into infinity war
I'll watch it and i'll write down every problem I can find
And then he does it does that mean he thinks the film is bad?
I think that's something that a lot of people take from cinema sins
But I don't think he's ever said that has he?
I don't know. I can't be sure but he usually just says these are things that went wrong in it and you'd be like
Well, that's not your opinion because you went out in hating this in the first place
It's like well
No, if me rags and wolf were to watch a film that we were told to collect all the things that we think were errors
That wouldn't then not be our opinion
I mean i'm wondering what she's referring to
Because it is very it's a very broad net she's casting
Is she talking specifically about cinema sins because I feel like it's kind of being implied here
Like I said, I think in concept
She kind of does make some sense the whole your criteria is you have to be negative and it has to be popular things covered
Therefore it's less about you and more about nailing those check boxes. But the thing is they could still line up with your opinion
Like so it's not definitive
And she's been careful about this throughout this video making disclaimers
I'm not saying this i'm saying this but this one was a bit of a bit of a blanket but fair enough
We'll keep going things like if you pause the movie at this exact very specific moment
You can tell they're using a stunt double. So movie bad. Okay
That I feel like is the jump
When people highlight there's a stunt double that's fine with me
But when they say all of the movie is now bad i'd be like, okay, that's stupid
But has cinema sins done that even ever?
I
I don't I mean he says himself his like little tagline is that no movie is free of sin
So he's not saying that every movie ever made is bad
Because there can something can be found wrong with every movie
Oh, those things can add up as the super chat highlights. I wonder if she has this criticism for I hate everything
you know
Just by the day below
Yeah, I I would be curious who said
something along these lines
I mean with cinema sins, you can kind of tell sometimes like by his tone
What what what is a what he thinks is a bad movie and what he thinks is a decent movie just with problems
uh
But I think because he's not personalized like other
other reviewers and other channels that people kind of like
Kind of detached from that and people just they just assume he hates everything
Like yeah, and even his and his tone isn't really negative
I don't think that like when I listen to cinema sins when I rarely ever do
I
I don't it. He doesn't sound angry. He sounds like he's having fun when he's making the video
My issue with him is mainly just accuracy. I don't really care about the style. I find it fine
In fact, if he was really accurate, I'd probably be subscribed to him
I could totally see myself enjoying it
I just hate listening to him say something and i'm like, but that's not true. And then he moves on to the next thing i'm like
Hmm
Yeah, like when he says the title is too long or there's no lap dance in this scene
I mean most people are like this isn't actually a problem with the movie. He's just doing the look. He's not he's just making it funny
you know
Another thing he's sort of you know, he said like I get things wrong deliberately to make jokes. Sometimes it's like
You're dangerously close to pretending like you never deliberately you never made a mistake
Because it's all deliberate, you know
Yeah, i'm actually you know, what we've we've almost opened up the case for criticizing cinema sins is complicated now
It's like it is comp it is because yeah, but I don't think it's because of us
I think it's because of kind of how he goes
And he kind of lumps it all together. It's just one thing after another ding ding ding ding ding
And some are some are fair legit real criticism
Quote unquote real criticisms and some are just like ha no lap dance in the scene
But i'm i am curious. Has he ever said in a cinema sins video this film is bad
Has he said that?
Anyone ever remember that?
Yes in his fourth transformers movie review he very
However, I will defend him to the death on that that movie is awful
You're gonna defend him on the uh, yeah. All right. I got it
This is the thing. I believe he probably would have i'm just curious because he definitely doesn't do it in every review
I don't remember. Well, whatever you call them. I don't know if people call them reviews or if people call them
Um, uh, would you call them reviews?
They are videos this is true. Um
There are videos there we go. We've nailed it. They are videos. They are videos. I agree
They are videos in my but like he said cars three was but there was a cars three. There was a cost
Yeah, there was a there was a cars three
Really? It had the jackass army hammer in it
Oh
I knew there was a cars too, but I also knew that nobody really liked it
I didn't know they made a cars three
It is a 70 audience score on uh, the tomato site rotten tomatoes
I wish I could put any amount of
Trust in rotten tomatoes, but they also gave the last jedi of beaming review
Well, I went to audience score and there are 27
Okay, the audience score. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Fuck. Fuck critics. I know I know more trust or less trust
cinema sins
Rotten tomatoes, sorry because of they are what they are
It's a group of people
Who give their perspective and that gets rounded up to a plus or negative and then those get rounded up into a score
like that's all it is so if you know if they say 100 for um
Wolverine
Their tomato meter is 69 which is fresh, but the average review is 6.1 out of 10
so
Someone said bringing the hugging girl back
yeah, you see like
the american
The american the american education something like whenever you got 100 that was an a-plus and whenever you got like a seven
Hold on
was an a-plus whenever you uh
Like 90 to 89 or some shit like that. That was that was a b
And in the 70s that night 90 to 90 to 89
Is what those are adjacent numbers?
80 to 89 80 80 to 89 is a b
70 to 79 is a c
And uh, 60 69 and so on and like tens essentially. Yeah, so how
So how does something fresh if it has a 69?
Well, it doesn't know it has a 6.1 out of 10 is the average rating. That's the so it's the average
So there are 146 fresh and 65 rotten
And that's still certified fresh with a 69 percent because that's the percent of
the percentage of approved critics
Even though the the rating is a 6.1 out of 10 which most people would say is not certified fresh
Yeah, that's that would be a d if we were talking about like a test
But the the the user the audience score is percentage who rated it 3.5 or higher
So they don't use really the same metric for critics as they do for audiences. I hate that
So their audience score is 1 above the critics
But they rate it as positive only if it's 3.5 or higher and the average rating is barely over 3.5
It's at 3.7 out of 5
so
It is what it is
Trash is what it is
Okay, yeah, so I was gonna say those I empathize with
Cinema sins getting the the criticism
They pointed out nitpick and then they say film is bad because of nitpicks
Like they the same thing is said about me and i'm like, I don't do that. I just point out the nitpick
Leave me alone and then some people like well, why'd you do it at all?
It's like because it's about filmmaking. I don't I don't care to ignore nitpicks
I like highlighting them and talking about why they may have happened and what they do. I like talking about movies. Leave me alone
When you're watching a bad movie that shit can pile up and yeah wear you down
At this exact very specific moment you can tell they're using a stunt double so movie bad
I see no reason to be vague. I'm mostly talking about cinema sins here. Although other channels
Call them ever saying that I mean, I don't watch most of their stuff
But man if he if he did say that that is ridiculous, I will agree
I don't think she can show a single time where he said this film is bad because of this
Stump double being noticed. I don't think that's ever happened
This is well
But cinema sins is particularly frustrating with this and that's mostly because the channel is extremely popular and it informs how a lot of people
Look at media. I won't talk about this for too long
I would kind of say that
being anally over critical
I think would I think it's better to be anally over critical than to have a really low bar
Yeah, because this is where the conversation evolves too
It's like what is the relevance of highlighting a nitpick then if it's not that you're saying the movie's bad because of it
And as as Lauren just said, it's like if you had a thousand nitpicks, maybe that's significant
Maybe that's like oh, that's a lot
What are they and do they all are they all indicative of a singular problem?
Like are they all related to bad props or they all related to bad stunts or they're related to horrible writing?
I don't know
Like i'm curious if you got two people and one is just a normal average normie who goes
Watches movies and stuff and then you compared that with the same average normie who otherwise is identical except that they
Consume an immense amount of cinema sins and that kind of informs how they watch movies to a degree
I wonder how they would both view movies differently if at all
And this is I highlighted the guy in this in my video
But I I stand by this if you do the reverse these people will not complain if you say yeah
This tiny thing is good. They go. Oh, that's good. It's good that they highlighted that that's a cool detail
But in reverse, it's a nitpick
It's like tearing things down it's like criticism in one way is
You know
Criticism is bad praising good
Yeah, it's just like people
Why can't you just be positive?
I like feeling good when I watch youtube videos be positive
Why I think we're all agree the position that cinema wins is not better than cinema sins by virtue of being positive
That's yeah, right. It's not how it's about accuracy
It's how a lot of people look at media. I won't talk about this for too long. Most
Things are getting made
I mean the guys who made the winter soldier were such big fans of honest trailers that they
Deliberately designed their movie to be as honest trailer proof as possible, which means
Okay, i'm not even sure how to take that. What does that mean exactly? You're saying so
I'm i'm curious if somebody's a huge fan of cinema sins and they want to make their film as cinema sins proof is possible
What now
This is way too generalized
All right, so what this chick is telling me is that a filmmaker?
Took the time to look at criticism and learn how to make a better hollywood film out of that
I would imagine that's what
If I could advocate for her as best as possible if I channel here
I think she'd say they're focusing on the things that aren't important cinema sins go for nitpicks
And thus their movies can get worse by focusing on
Plugging up nitpicks instead of focusing on the important things. I think that's probably what she would say
um
Oh, no, go ahead go ahead
no, I
It's just that I just
I'm curious that this is almost it kind of smells of you know, the
What is it the?
Sharp shooter fallacy or something not quite but it's getting there where i'm i'm curious of how many people heard doors
dirty at the ends just like
If somebody would have said that this is why I don't like white doors because you don't use the handle over time
Dude, I have a white door. It is not covered it accumulates
Why you gotta be racist? Yeah, I just don't we're on white doors
But I just don't like brown on white
Hold up you fucking rock
Oh
Sometimes you sometimes you just got to separate the white doors from the brown doors
You got to separate the brown stain from the white door
Yeah point the point the conversation is metaphorical. I'm just saying
That um, what was I saying? Oh, yes
I was saying
uh wash your hands inside clean your room and if
someone had come out and said
If
He's like this almost seems cherry picky
because
How many people out there are fans of cinema sins?
Who want to create media or who want to create, you know movies?
Games anything like that and they go into the mindset of okay. If this is covered by cinema sins
How do I avoid getting dinged?
I mean surely there's no way that cinema sins is unknown to film makers by and large
Surely they know what this massive channel is and the fact the russo brothers know who he is is quite
Telling it's like I wonder how many people do know of him
so I mean
Oh forget. I think it would be a bigger claim that
People don't do it for cinema sins
When I think that they do
Just because you pull up a quote one way I don't that doesn't mean that the quotes going the other way aren't as substantive
um
Because i'm trying to I needed to make a more specific point because it's like honest trailers exist
So are they bad and if she says yes, I'd be like why they focus on nitpicks
Okay, and these directors have watched it and convinced themselves
That they should focus on fixing these nitpicks and it's creating worse movies for it. I'd be like, okay
Those statements are relatively. Okay, but you got a lot of proofs to give us
through all of them because that's a lot of things to
Like you got to prove the honest trailers a bad criticism
Then you've got to prove that their influence is going further than just these two specific directors
Then you've got to prove the winter soldier is
Bad as a result of focusing on windows on
Thinking and began we haven't really gotten exactly what she's saying yet
But i'm just like this is a very complicated line to draw
There's a lot of little things you've got to try and complete but because for the record, I don't think honest traders are bad
Actually enjoy them I think they're funny so someone said um that jared's on the other side of the door
Their rooms are connected that's why the burn is in the same location
That's his room through there's my brother and sister
They're both competing for youtube channels
I mean the guys who made the winter soldier were such big fans of honest trailers that they
deliberately designed their movie to be as honest trailer proof as possible
Which means we're seeing more and more films where they try to preemptively catch these tiny problems and spend ages
agonizing over small details to that isn't something you know, you don't know that
It's almost like it's almost like people should like make airtight stories or something. I
So it's like one you can't prove what you just said the idea that they've slaved over the project trying to get rid of the
Tiny problems, but two why is that bad?
Yeah, you're essentially saying they ignore bigger issues so that they instead focus all their time and effort on these other things
Qualify that yeah, you'd have to prove that there's a lot of what if the tiny things added up to a big thing
And that big thing was crippling the film tiny things do add up to big things
Yeah, ryan, it's like bilbo bag is quote. That's gotta be tiny things out of the big thing
To the detriment of the larger story
We also see this with sequels and remakes trying to fix plot holes that were never really problems to begin with
Well, if that's the case, then yes, you're right. But if it's not the case, then you're wrong
There's no examples
Maybe she referred to a little bit
I don't know
Maybe I can't even think of a sequel being given
Is there any sequels any of the stuff everyone says outside of rogue one if you count that uh,
That tried to fix a plot hole in its previous film
What plot hole did they try to fix? Oh, well i'm a this is the thing i'm advocating for a position
I don't know if she held it but the whole like oh it's stupid that there's an exhaust port in the death star and then that
Rogue one explains why that's the case
um
That was that was not a pothole, but um, no, I agree with you. Let me see
What was the thing she just said that so maybe she's right if she's referring to
I I can't say either way i'd have to think about it have to really think live action beauty and the beast
I've not heard the wouldn't that that's not necessarily a sequel though. If that's just like an adaption. It's a retelling. Yeah
They don't exist in the same
Universe because they're both the same events. I was just gonna say I accept that that might be a valid
uh
Reference for what your you guys are talking about i'm specifically going for a sequel because uh, yeah that exists in the same
universe sequentially
You know same shark nato too
shark nato
Timonade I don't know that there's an attempt to fix anything in two and a one from timonade too
I can't remember star wars episode nine. It hasn't even come out
Oh, yeah
How do we unfuck what has been fucked?
Um, they've already brought back kylo's helmet. So it's
He's very clearly trying to fix some stuff. I I approve of the return of kylo's helmet
Yeah, so the less we have to see his face the better the point of this is me like that
you mean
the point of this is me trying to highlight that um
Can we even come up with examples like i'm struggling too and she said this like it's like common
I'm like you're gonna have to give me some examples because I can't even think of them. I would love I would love examples. Yes
Is trying to fix plot holes that were never really problems to begin with oftentimes these aren't even real plot holes
They're just elements that weren't initially explained to exhaustion. Like where did he come from in harry potter?
Well, no, she's an asian woman now awkwardly over explaining every small detail of your world to avoid that
There god damn it you
Where are we pausing for? Oh, well, she said she gave an example in harry paul. Did you guys catch that?
Uh, yeah, where did nagini come from and isn't nagini the snake
Yeah, probably now it's like some vietnamese chick and everyone hates it. Wait, so
Chamber of secrets you talking about it?
I guess like no, no that that's the basilisk nagini's like
personal snake oh
Magic is why it came from magic. I don't know. I don't I don't know if the film moves
Maybe she's right in this example. There's someone complained
Where is nagini from and then we're all just like why'd you need to know where the snake is from voledow has a snake?
Right on that maybe I don't I don't know
Like we're from like what what's the actual plot hole
Because not knowing where something's from isn't in and of itself a plot hole. It's just a lack of information
So I guess you're saying that's that's not the plot hole
It's call. Is she saying that's called a plot hole when it's not? Oh, if that if that's what she's saying, then I guess I agree
I I don't know
Someone gave an example ironically from harry potter. Uh, the time turner is being destroyed in the fifth movie
Let's just try and forget that the third one ever happened
Well, that's the thing that's always one of my biggest problems was it's like you have fucking time travel devices. This shit should be easy
Like prowling was stupid enough to introduce time travel as a mechanic
Imagine they're all learning about magic and they're like this spell can help like a plant grow now
Oh, that's pretty cool. Someone comes in. It's like by the way, when are we gonna learn about the whole time traveling shit and you're like
What what?
What?
I'd be like excuse fucking me like yeah, that's that's uh grade seven or something. You're like
Why don't you use this before so michiko hama saki
Asks, why do why do rags and wolf look like the witch king in the mouth of sarin? I wonder why
Don't explain it don't explain it because don't explain it it's a plot hole
It's a plot hole. Just let him figure it out
I don't even know
Because you're like now i'm in that now I have to figure it out
No, it's something else rag someone's um realized your vision of snore piercer snore piercer
Anyway trying to fix plot holes that were never really problems to begin with
Oftentimes these aren't even real plot holes
They're just elements that weren't initially explained to exhaustion like where did nigini come from in harry potter?
and the thing is
Awkwardly over explaining every small detail of your world to avoid that kind of nitpicky criticism doesn't make for very good movies
Uh, I guess I agree in that specific instance
It could it depends on how it's done. I mean execution is everything
Yeah, we could have a scene where they explain when nigini is from and it could have been cool could have been interesting
I thought the snake was dead
Or it could be uh, the the second the crimes of grindle walled movie that everyone hated and it's like, oh, maybe you should
Maybe you shouldn't have made this
I'm just like, you know the difference between like what let's just say in the harry potter movies. Um, there's a scene with snake books in the room
He's like baldemarj. Where did you get that snake? He's like i've always had it. It was from my father
It was in this closet up until then
Okay
Well, that was awkward. This is my
Every every riddle kept a closet snake, but then you could have a tradition, you know
You have exposition mixed in with some other shit
like that snake kills someone and then he's like stroking it and he's like
Negini has been with me since the beginning and say something else. I don't know
It's it's just the the act of explaining a thing isn't inherently bad because it's like this times we're gonna be good
Come on. I feel like she would agree with that, you know
But I guess her point is that focusing on on only those things is not what the film is about so stop doing it
I think that's what she's gunning for
I don't know. But generally when the messages stop being analytical
I wonder if she would count snoke in all of this, you know, she's like you don't need to explain snoke
I'd be like, yes, you do. Yeah, you kind of do
And then it comes down to figuring out whether or not something does need to be explained that there's another this is what I mean
There's so many general sort of terms that it's just like oh you're flying over so much conversation about media
Morley writing the video for her
Well, I feel like you have to in a way
Well, it's the thing people call this concise and i'm like it's vague though. Yeah, it's vague. Vegan concise are not the same thing
Short is not concise necessarily
Yeah, and i'm doing the best i'm giving you as much benefit as I can you know what to be honest
We've covered a lot of bad videos on efap. Like I think this is probably one of the better ones, right?
Yeah, this is this definitely isn't one of the worst. It's just not it's just too vague
Yeah, that kind of nitpicky criticism doesn't make for very good movies
That's not to say it's all reviewers faults and that the actual creators hold no responsibility in this situation
But the increasing popularity of framing nitpicks as well. Why are they different criticism definitely plays a part in this
Plays a part I guess I agree with that plays a part. I mean, yeah, it's define nitpick
What is well substantiated versus not well substantiated, you know, it's
I think it relies on us to know the difference but the fact is like two critics might very much disagree on that
So is there a standard?
Yeah, like my dad's the kind of guy who i'll say like I went you know after we saw the last jedi
I'm like, I mean it looked cool and all but that hyperspace kamikaze fucking changes everything
Like this breaks so much shit and he's like you're just nitpicking
And you know, it's just it's just one of those things where like I see this as
Just in it's insane
And then you're a friend
He's like, oh, it's just a nitpick
You have a friend who like really hates star wars more than you more than anyone
He's like, do you see that fucking scene?
Where ray's ray's third toenail was slightly longer than the rest if she had cut them all at the same time
Why would it be longer?
Especially
You can get a triple kill on fucking tie fighters first time she's in a gun turret
He mixed that in with that
I mean that that would be unusual I guess but you know
Some of the content they create is to just say that what they're creating is satire
I swear some of these people think that real life has like cheat codes and that you can just say literally anything and never
Have to explain yourself or be held accountable again
That's very ironic coming from this very vague video that is that is a little ironic I was about to say
so if if if me and rags were to make a joke like
Um, hey, you see that editing mistake in in last jedi where someone is here and then they're slightly over here
The entire film is bad for that now
Also, we're nazis and then someone says see I've got a quote of them saying it and you go
We were joking and you go. Oh, you just use that to escape criticism
You're like, well in that instance, we were literally joking what he wants to do if it's true and you can be like cinema sins
He says there was no lap dance in this scene. And that is not a criticism. That is just his preference
And then you'd be like it was a joke. They go. Oh, yeah. Okay, you're satire aren't you? You're a parody
Professor swan is asking so talking about nitpicks. What about dick pics? I fully, uh endorse and support dick pics
Send me yours
everyone in the chat
on discord rags
They fixed the toedale being too long of the novelization
It's an initial novel
So there's one side of the scale by the way the other side in which I think she's arguing for right now is that
Yeah, someone makes a bunch of inaccuracies and then they go. Uh
Shit, I was joking
You're like you were joking. Yep
Uh, I didn't make any mistakes because it was all meant that way and it's like, yeah
That's that's bad. But it's kind of tough to tell the difference if the person is
It would have to be contextual. It's literally down to like specific examples
Have you guys seen an increase in using satire as a defense for criticism
um
Yeah, i've i've seen it i've seen in my opinion
but satire
Um
I've seen it mocked like it's just satire. Ha ha ha
Or I've I've seen more people
Accusing people who are legitimately being satirical as being an earnest
You know like when people like er called a fucking nazi joke
So that means he's actually a nazi like i've seen that more than i've seen people
Like claiming to use satire when they're being real
I've seen it the other way the opposite I seen have been true
But that's just what i've seen so
I can only go by what i've seen and this thing it's like i'm gonna present
Some stuff or we're just gonna
I because I feel like this video is perfect for people who already agree with the overall statements
And they they're just vague enough that I think most people would agree with most of it
There's just a bit of bits in between they're like, but what about this though? And it's like well, yeah
It's like it but if you're trying to convince an analytical mind or someone who's very skeptical or who just really wants to be convinced
I'm not
Really, I mean it's so vague. I it's almost like I don't really know what i'm agree
Houston was in satirizing a critic who barely brings attention to movies like oof
But I mean he did say that uh
He said publicly that he he gets things wrong on purpose to create jokes sometimes and it's like that does sound like a shield
No tree, don't worry the new video is going to be out on uh new years
I tried to get it done before my christmas trip, but I I wasn't I didn't think I could do it justice
So there you go new years. There you go. You'll get a new video for me, too
I'm doing i'm releasing my audio commentary on tlj. That's gonna be funny
Your audio commentary. Yeah, I did it with alex for the for a sort of like celebration for the being a year since the rage video
Hooray, unfortunately that'll that'll tie into there'll be like another two hours plus into that into that weird
Fucking go back and redo his math
That's another two and a half hours. This proves that he hates the tl tlj more than he actually hates it
He's only hating it for views he releases his videos at christmas for views
But then that you can just say literally anything and never have to explain yourself or be held accountable if you utter the words
It's satire or in my opinion
That seems to be what they use it for it's like hey
You say I got all these things wrong and I haven't taken this into account and I said things too generally
But what you don't understand is it's just my opinion. So you can't criticize me in my subjective opinion
The idea with channels like cinema sins as well as
Nostalgia critic and similar channels is that these aren't the real opinions of these people they're playing characters who are these annoying guys who nitpick
Details you see they tell you you're not really supposed to like them or empathize with them
Do they say that?
You're not supposed to like or empathize. I don't know if that's
Yeah, I don't get that
I mean, I don't know unless they state it outright mate. Do they
There are a lot of assumptions being made here
Yeah, like we're a little lost help us out here because you're like
I didn't realize it was just a fact the avg had a nostalgia critic didn't want you to like or empathize with their characters
I'd be like what they want you to like the content not like the specific in-universe personality of the
presenter
I don't know. It's like it's like when he does francis, you know
Yeah, but I think there's a lot of people who unironically like francis the character, you know
Like in the same way we like luke and star wars people like I like francis. He's such a
Such a fucking idiot. Yeah, I guess
I don't know in the same way, you know
Like there's gotta be people in this chat who are watching avgm because they love that character approaching things, you know
Yeah, I don't know. This is a weird point. This is such a strange thing to say
but I think I know why she's saying it like she's gonna lead into um
Talking about how she's made the statement now that they've made the statement that you shouldn't like or empathize with those people
even though those people have the same comments as the real people
and thus
You would empathize with the real people unless you kind of should empathize, you know
It's like it's it's a bit of a weird draw, but i'll let it i'll let it do it first
You're not really supposed to like them or empathize with them
This is dishonest part of the problem here is that we know for a fact that some of these criticisms these channels put out
Really are the genuine thoughts of their creators channels like cinema sins and the nostalgia critic also do out of character reviews
where they just talk about the movies they saw normally and
Oftentimes the out of character criticisms and the in character criticisms are the same
I don't know that that's what is yeah
That it doesn't follow that that's a dishonest thing because like technically you could argue
I play a character in the rage videos because obviously i'm
Ranting different I guess but it's scripted. So it's like you're feigning that emotion technically and i'd be like technically
Yes, so technically as a character, but I share every criticism that character has
Yeah, a different character can have the same opinion as the real you or another character
That doesn't mean they're dishonest if they both say it
Yeah, right. It just amped up to 11 basically. I feel like
All everyone does that to a degree when you know, it's being recorded you use some filters
Like I better be concise or I better be clear. I better be assertive
I uh
I can be a little bit eccentric, you know
like this just small things but not to the point of like literally a different personality just
I don't
I don't I don't follow
And one thing too is that someone in um someone in the chat said
Why should we watch angry video game nerd if we do not like that character even villains sometimes are good characters?
I don't get why I do not get watching something without liking the character
And that's the weird thing. She said that they said that I was like, I don't think they've ever said that
That seems like a weird thing to say
And if someone else pointed out it's exaggeration not satire
Has this nostalgia critic ever said that his work is satire as the nostalgia critic not to say that she said that i'm just curious
I don't know. Maybe maybe someone in channel know
Normally and oftentimes the out-of-character criticisms and the in-character criticisms are the same
sherman from peabody and sherman had a sex change
So young did you have a feeling did you have a feeling I had a feeling
Semvira comes home to her daughter who is presumably sherman after a sex exchange. It's a joke
I was about to say that that's not even a criticism
Obviously, that's a joke
Oh my god
They just hate trans people is she now saying that if you make the same joke
Out of character and in character you're being just where do you think they got the joke from?
He would have yeah
I mean, it's like when they sat down for their first viewing
You know or their original viewing and he came with it off the top of my head
He was like, hey, that was funny. I'll put it in my official review
Because not 100 of people watch both
That's redundancy. It's not being dishonest. Yeah, not following that. Maybe she'll make a point at the end of this
Asking me what I think about
I think it sucks
Unto her daughter was presumably sherman after he got a sex change, which let's be honest. We all saw that coming again
It's like the movement of this guy could be funny. It's like they're onto something but they're not talented
His career is on the rise
Let's see if we can put a stop to that by casting him as someone who's supposed to move funny
But instead moves like a spot
Is she like
She's putting all this norm of the north
Footage up here like this is supposed to be like
Like proving that the nostalgia critic is a parent is a bad reviewer. But
normal north
It's not a movie. I want to
Let's uh reverse engineer this you got
Um, he is making the same point as his real life counterpart assuming because again
We have to assume that the character is fake or the character shouldn't be taken seriously or shouldn't be liked I guess
and that is an example of
I assume she's saying dishonesty or or some something which is
Again, sort of jumping from bad media criticism. That is bad media criticism
Yeah, like how could it be satire if we said it in real life?
There's so many things along that trail that I don't follow along with yeah
I totally disagree that it is dishonest for someone to say things twice as two different characters
So dla graphical said I think the point is they claim that they are being satire through their characters and their criticisms aren't genuine
So it's contradictory when they say the same thing in both personas
I want to agree with that point, but I don't think that's what they are doing. I think cinema sins has done that
I don't think avian and nostalgia critic have though
I mean if I watch something the first time
And i'm making a joke about it
Which is kind of what satire is making a joke about thing, you know
Then if I make that
as a joke later on also
Then that matches up with what satire is in a loose sense. I
Also, I just realized I just don't really agree
This is the same point that was made by film bob against and not movie bob
I have to clarify that film bob's a different version film bob against cinema sin said
Cinema sins claims his work shouldn't be taken seriously as satire
And then he showed examples of how his very serious criticism
As a person is reflected into his work
So how are we supposed to know the difference which I agree with as a point? I don't know that
Why wouldn't she just show us an example of nostalgia critic saying don't take nostalgic critics seriously
It's not real criticism or something like that. They'll prove their point. That's the part that's missing here
But even still she showed us jokes. Like that's not really I don't think that helps
Because if you say like you take you take character a seriously you take character b not seriously and both of them make a joke
Does that mean
It would be more it would be something else if they took the same
facet of the movie
and each character
Praised it for opposite reasons. Like one said this thing's good because of the reason and the other says it's bad because of the reason
Instead of them both agreeing on what is essentially an obvious joke
and the reviewers block said
Doug Walker said that nostalgic critic is a hyperbolic vision of his views and opinions, which I would understand that
Yeah, like that's that matches up with exaggeration is not satire, you know
Well, it can be but you know, it's it's not just because it's exaggerated doesn't mean that it's like dishonest
Or even that it's necessarily a character. It's just a string. I don't even if
Even if they're supposed to be satirizing
An insane critic, right? That's the joke. It doesn't mean they can't actually have legitimate criticisms in and amongst
Other ones if that's the claim
Then it would still be valid for them to have used criticism. They actually saw as their normal persona if you will
Yeah, like a very complicated
Topic to be honest
He's like if they sit down and they find something that's a legit flaw with the movie on their first viewing
And then after they make their you know, edited proper video on it and then they release the first viewing footage
That wouldn't be a problem. Let's be like, oh, that's where he first had the idea
Well, all of this is in response to the idea that you use satire as a shield against
errors slash
hyperbole
so, um
Is that what's happening in this scenario? And uh, is she assuming that he actually believes that in universe this character is a
Transversion of another character thing. I think that was a bad example because that's clearly a joke. Yeah, it's clearly a joke
This one where he's running fast and it looks awful because he says that and then he sort of says that as the
Nostalgia critic is sort of more criticism than joke
I still don't really get the point. This is i'm just gonna let it continue because I don't
100 follow
Move funny, but instead moves like a sped up inflatable outside of a car rental
Cinema sins also often puts out nitpicks that are unresearched and factually wrong. It's see that's bad
Yeah
And I agree
I don't even really care if it's satire if you deliver it as just bad information
Like if it's not even a joke, it's just you saying like this thing doesn't make sense. Yeah. Oh, yes
Well, I I agree being objective is important
What yeah and typically I just say accurate
Accuracy is is the one it's like a sped up inflatable outside of a car rental
Cinema sins also often puts out nitpicks that are unresearched and factually wrong
It's not a stretch to understand why this is bad media criticism
The excuse they employ here is oh we put them in on purpose so people can correct us
Yeah, see I feel like that's just kind of silly
Yeah, I don't I don't know if I buy that. Um as for us being wrong on sins
At least 50 of the time we did it on purpose
Like with watchmen, we had the mars smiley comment the leonard cohen joke the misspelling fewer as frewer, etc
We call these intentionally ignorant sins
I even tweeted the night before the watchman video about it hinting at a few such sins
Almost every video has at least one of these
well, that's almost like uh
Is it really me fucking up or is it just me doing that intentionally to keep you on your toe is like, okay
That sounds really convenient for whatever he it sounds
Yeah, it's not a plot hole, but it is a contriven
Yeah, just the 50 is like
So we'll forever wonder if you really didn't or did make a mistake, okay
So 50 so there's a one so it's flipping a coin on every sin that you have essentially. Yeah
Okay
Even if this is true
That's not good satire
imagine if the onions sometimes published real stories and sometimes published fake stories and just
Didn't tell you which was which and then imagine if real news sites saw how popular they were and started to copy them
It would be bad. Basically these channels. Um, I agree with the point she's making
Wait, i'm because it would be bad bad in what way morally it's like possibly agree with that bad for entertainment. Not necessarily
Uh, it would be bad at the dissemination of accurate information and I agree with that too
But again, the onion is a satire. Yeah, right now
So could we criticize them for putting out bad information?
She's like well, no because they they're satire and they're like, right. So there is a place for satire
We agree on that
Um, we don't want news outlets that are credible putting out, uh stupid stories just because it gets clicks
Even though we're kind of already there
I mean the onion kind of hides behind satire, uh when people criticize it. So, um, yeah
yeah, it's
These are all extremely interesting conversations and they sort of just like boom boom boom boom and it's like, uh, okay
Hmm
want their opinions to be taken seriously, but they also
Also, I can't help but remember quinton satire or his attempted satire. Yeah. Yeah. Did you ever get to see that uh, lauren?
Yeah, um, he made a video parody of me, but he took it down after I think a couple days. Oh my god
I wish I had a scene. I've got it. I'm gonna be talking about it in
The problem for quinton is he doesn't he doesn't realize that he's popular enough that nothing will escape as long as he releases it
like
Which he does a lot of by the way. He does a lot of like
Removing the thing he did. Uh, but yeah
He took it down because so many people were asking him what the fuck he was doing
They were like, how is this a it was a 10 minute video for a start. How is that a parody of me?
like that's just like
He wants the freedom to be an asshole, but he doesn't want the repercussions
Yeah, the cop that goes with it
like I I
Once I found a place that had a mirror of the pewdiepie t-series thing of him. I save that shit so fast
So if you need a copy
And you're you're still looking for somebody who has a copy of mundane matt's tlj video, right?
If anybody has a copy
of
Mundane matt's the last jedi video that he deleted
Yeah, let me know like message me on discord rags
Uh hashtag 3000
Let me know
There you go folks. I feel like nobody's got that video because nobody would download a mundane matt video
Well, you'd have to go to mundane matt's channel and that's just a little that's already too much
It's not on there though. It's been deleted. So no you say like what he first put it up
Why would anyone have downloaded it? Like I I didn't even hear about it until mauler told me about it after he did it
Hmm
Satire requires a clarity of purpose and target
Lest it be mistaken for and contribute to that which it intends to criticize
Do you agree with that statement?
Say one more time satire requires a clarity of is on screen for me
But I don't know if it is for you satire requires a clarity of purpose and target lest it be mistaken for
Okay now
Satire requires a clarity of purpose and target lest it be mistaken for and contribute to that which it intends
to criticize
Um, I I have to think you see it is
I I have to think
Requires clarity of purpose like it has to be now. I mean you can have you can be satirical and and make a point
That's what I said
What about subtlety like when you get subtle satire?
Does that not have clarity of purpose if it's subtle?
And targets I don't a target
Like like an age group or a demographic. This is the scenario
Convenient store scenario is uh, there's a youtuber who just says everything is overtly racist
I'm not even going for anybody here. I'm literally just trying to make up a scenario. So don't think I have
And then you go you're going after me clearly then you go. Okay. Okay
I'm gonna make a video parodying this person and then you you copy their voice
You use the same kind of style and you just go for shrek and you explain how shrek is racist
And then everyone enjoys the video that's on their fan base and says you're great and you're like, oh shit
I just added to the issue i'm trying to expose
My video was satire
And then everyone was just like oh, but it was I liked it though. I'm like, oh shit
well, I guess it's because I guess it's because
And that's why I said execution is so important because that's why quinton can't do satire
Um, but yeah other people can that's why you have you know, like space balls and things like that are there um
Um
I I don't know. It's it's so it's so
Individual like I don't I don't know if there's any
Here's the thing. I would imagine that there's no blanket sort of
Stuff you can cast over satire. It depends on what you're
trying to satirize
Yeah, like if we think of I think the easiest one to say for the most relatable right now would just be politics so
Some you know frogs are gay. You have somebody
Saturize alex jones and they dress up the same way something then they should go
They're making the oxygen die that everyone's like oh he's going for alex jones. I get it
Or they go this guy's actually nuts people actually listen to this. It's embarrassing
Arguably, that's what my gedel video was. It's got positive ratings and all the comments like in favor
If anyone saw that out of context, if you're like, what the fuck is this?
But it's I I don't know I would like this is its own
Thing but I think that because sat it's like when you copy something
Satire is so dependent on what it is attempting to satirize
That it's like a case by case thing
um
And if you satirize something like the problem with quinton is that he tried to satirize you but he did it in a way
That people like people agreed with what was supposed to be satire
And they appreciated it. It's the like I said, there's comments saying like thank god somebody's criticizing citizen kane
It's like uh-oh and then it was like there's comments like who is this target in act because I can tell it's satire
But I don't know who it is. It's like oof. These are like the two biggest failures a satire could have
Um
In other news this girl caught another fly
She let one go as well if me and rags were tasked with making a fucking video on satire
I feel like it would be at least an hour long and it's like it's just been so briefly covered
And there's a big statement here about how it works. It's just like is that how it works?
yeah, like if if somebody didn't know anything about satire and you said
satire requires a clarity of purpose and a target less to be mistaken for and contribute to that which it intends to criticize
Is that really going to help someone make it satire? What about this scenario?
100 people out of 100 people don't understand your video is satire. It's just like it must have failed
What about 100 people out of 10 billion didn't understand it? It's like oh, well, then suddenly I think it probably did work
So
The clarity of purpose is almost subjective. It depends on what the person is able to understand and how much information they have
How many people out of 100 have to be offended by something before it's too offensive?
That's yeah, that's another great example. And this is this is why this is very complicated and I
I agree with her that using satire as a shield from criticism is not good
however
I'm, not sure I agree with a statement on satire. It depends on the kind of criticism
And she's saying like, you know cinema sins are by claiming their satire even if they're correct even if they are satire
Uh, they're contributing to the problem
That's I think that's what your position is
Well, it's like if you make satire and people understand it's satire
But the satire is actually correct and it isn't satirizing anything really even though it's trying to
Then it would be an appropriate criticism to point that out and you can't use satire as a defense because that is what's being criticized
Yeah, I think like I think I think isn't a defense for itself
So
Is it your april fool's video is going to be one big satire, right?
It's like no, I will only post serious videos on april fool's day 100 percent
It's all the other ones that are satire the rest of my career is satire
Stories and sometimes published fake stories and just didn't tell you which was which
And then imagine if real news sites saw how popular they were and started to copy them. It would be bad
They all suck it's interesting she said real use site
Yeah, because that's that's what that's one of our bingo things, you know genuine real and actual those words
Well, it's interesting too because when alex jones got, you know, deplatformed, which I vehemently disagree by the way
Um, then, you know people would bring up. Well, wait a second
How many times the cnn has to have to tell blatant, you know, terrible lies before?
You know, it's like how many lies do you have to tell how many people do you have to offend?
You know, what's the line that we cross? Is it just going to be random people? We don't like I mean look at patreon
It's clearly subjective
Yeah, man
Like yeah, I feel like this should happen. It does news from cnn
I like to listen to wolf blitz or babylon. Did you guys wolf blitz was in mished impossible fallout?
What?
Please tell me he was like was he like shot or something?
I need to see that because I hear it's a really good action
Oh, yeah, no, we should definitely check it out. Uh
so
Watch tonight want to get back from this uh thing. I'm the shindig i'm going to later
Hmm. Yeah, we can yeah, actually yeah, maybe maybe maybe seeing it. I got I've seen a lady
How long have you got by the way?
I have to go in about 30 minutes or so
Let's try and we'll try and we'll try and shut this up
And then imagine if real news sites saw how popular they were and started to copy them. It would be bad
Basically these channels want their opinions to be taken seriously
But they also don't want to be held accountable for any mistakes they make
I would I would levy that very criticism with the different context. It would be the opinion thing
They want to be taken seriously, but every time they realize oh, they're presented with information is completely counted to them
They'll be like, uh in my subjective opinion
It's like I I agree that you I agree with the idea that you can't just say oh satire is your get out of jail free card
to everything
but like I who are we
Talking about here
I guess cinema sins and
Nostalgia critic and abgn maybe I think oh, but she hasn't convinced me for a nostalgic critic
No, she doesn't convince me for anybody but cinema sins, but i'm not even convinced assuming
That's even what he does. Yeah, i'm not convinced i'm on the side that he actually has helped
Because as I said before I would prefer that people were anally over critical
Then lowered their standards. Sure. Would you would you lauren wolf? Would you agree with that statement?
Uh, I think they're do you like anal?
Oh
Well, see because from my view it seems like hollywood movies like big ones have only gotten worse
so but like not because of like criticism just because
I think it's the the adverse reaction to criticism
I think because of it like there's so many critics like people like because you see how people how certain filmmakers act
As soon as someone comes out with a video
That gets a lot of views criticizing your movie. They're like, oh
fuck this
Just some asshole dude, bro. Fuck face like like our movie made money. Like what the fuck? What the fuck does he know?
it seems like
they're
It just seems like they there's like it's like there's an adverse reaction to instead of just like listening to it because
Yeah, I mean, I mean it's a little black and white but you see how the russo brothers they they looked at criticism and they were like
Okay, let's just let's try to apply that
Uh to our films and then but you know, you see the the whole right you see the director
Uh, what was it? That's a stupid king kong movie that came out with tom hiddleston
They're really bad. Oh, I think she's skull island. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the director of that movie went off on
Okay, I liked that movie I did not like that movie
I I I liked it because I win it. I definitely know that there's a lot of things wrong
I liked it because I liked like the monster fights and like the
The critters on the island like the island felt dangerous and that's essentially was my big thing
I like how the giant squid could fit into really shallow water. You don't know how shallow it was
Look
Listen, um
Maybe there was like uh
I got nothing
I'd like to remind everybody that the members of efap never disagree on anything. It's a circle. Yes. We do never disagree
Yes, we do. Yeah rags. Do we need to do we need to bring up that hellblade debate again?
It wasn't a debate. I will get my elevator music
A debate implies you had a chance
Now that would imply that you had an argument to begin with my mask is better than your mask
Rags could see out of his it fit us. That's true
Well, look you got stabbed in the face by a woman all you are the back
No in the face. She just like it's just like a fucking woman to stab you in the back when you're out on a battle
Okay
That's what they do
It's just like hobbits too
That's just like a hobbit to stab you in the back. Are you racist against hobbits? No, i'm just pointing out
Not all stereotypes are untrue
Maybe there's a reason everybody refers to hobbits as backstabbers. Maybe i'm not saying i'm not saying anything i'm saying
That's a maybe maybe a little roguish thieves living in holes in the ground
Hey, look just because they're called burglars by old dudes with really big sticks doesn't mean that they're all burglars
They literally without bilbo's consent without bilbo's consent. They they went into his house and they stole his furniture
They didn't steal his furniture. They stole all his food
That's no no at the end the auction at the end. He comes back and they're auctioning off all of his shit
Oh, you're talking about the other hobbits
Yes, the yes the oh exactly yeah, but it's okay if they do it to each other that look not
Frodo didn't do it. Yeah, I mean he wasn't born yet, but he still didn't do it. That's true
Yeah, what's your problem with Frodo, huh? What's the problem with Frodo because he um
He wears a ring and he's not even married
Hey, he had something going with sam. Yeah, i was gonna say you gates gay hobbits gobbits
That was a real hero
Okay, that's objectively true. Yeah, I agree
So anyway, this is a video we were supposed to cover I think oh, yeah, that's right
How popular they were and started to copy them
Bad basically these channels want their opinions to be taken seriously
But they also don't want to be held accountable for any mistakes they make
so instead of getting either real criticism with well substantiated points or
Real funny satire where someone fully commits to the character of unlikeable nerd to make a point about media criticism
You get this awkward in between stage from these kinds of channels
Their points are presented with enough legitimacy that people in the comments do take their opinions seriously
But they're filled with enough inconsistency is that the actual because some of their opinions are right. I was about to say this is
That's the thing in some of their scenario
But the person she's highlighting does all the things she's saying they do as in they get everything wrong and they just try to vote
But it's like yes, you are right then your criticism is fine
but you're treating this like it applies to loads of people when
It's all very specific examples. You need loads of evidence. You kind of just like say oh fuck
rooted everything
I
Some of what cinema sins does is satire
Yeah, there's no denying it i'm afraid
I mean, yeah, it's I it's not an excuse for every criticism. It is an excuse for some
Because he'll he'll have moments where he highlights a thing that you can he he's like explaining it
Like it's a definitive contradiction
Then you'll just be like, but what about this other thing and you're like, well, I guess he fucked that up. Okay
So I wonder how many people
You know watch cinema sins and go what if I was cinema sins, but like I really took it serious
Yeah, which is a good thing to be honest
Yeah, absolutely
And then you could have someone being like what if I was cinema sins, but I went heavy in the satire I went
I got things deliberately wrong completely. There was no accurate point I made and it's just for the fun of it
But you know just judging films by standards that aren't applicable like
Ogres don't exist. So shrek makes no sense stuff like that
Intent is pretty bad
And because their opinions are taken seriously their criticism style goes on to affect the way movies are made just to be clear
I'm not claiming that
Cinema sins or the yeah
For one, we don't even know that that's true
We can only just guess and to what degree we don't even know we just have to guess
And then is it good or bad? It's like we don't even know we have to guess
Yeah, you would have to
Establish that films are worse directly because of these channels and I would and if we're going off of our gut feelings or assumptions
I would assume that films like there are channels like cinema sins to make films better instead of worse
Because if you're a fan of cinema sins, you don't want to get dinged. That's not a good thing
So you would attempt to avoid that and make more
Stories depending on his particular ding
I mean i'm always up for more lap dances
Yeah, that's true. Even let's get some male lap dances in there. Why not, you know, why not get them in there?
Uh, well i've been i've been there
Male stripper
I hate male stripper
Nostalgia critic are like single-handedly responsible for any particular movies being bad
If any one person were able to ruin movies, I would be genuinely impressed
But I do think that the content these people create and their
popularity is a contributing factor all in all do we agree that it's a contributing factor to the
detriment of films to the detriment, um
And the to the in popularity does have an have an influence on
Well influence
But I think that's where i'm to the detriment. I don't know. Yeah, I agree that they would be influential in some way shape or form. Fine, but
Yeah, obviously when pea find us something it means more than if you know jared does I mean fuck
I think at this point she probably would throw me in with cinemas and she'd probably be like the mole guy
He's ruining films too. And I should be like just show me the correlation. Please just show it just somehow connect it
Someone in the chat said she's got hands like a fly graveyard
Media criticism, but the flies kill
Early does not care about whether the core of a movie or show is good or bad and only focuses on
Inconsequential details isn't particularly useful. Yeah, but
Who's doing that?
Useful useful. Well, what's that's another problem. I want to
Rewind of it. I want to rewind of it
You know, I just tried to like do that hand emotion where she had
One hand in the other and just moved him around randomly
It's actually profoundly uncomfortable and I don't know what she did that for
Really useful and this is more likely to happen when you've built a niche around creating a negative review of whatever's
Finally the reason this is bad is because this nitpicking becomes so popular that it bleeds into real life and into how real movies end up
Getting made whether I
But how is that bad?
Again, you have to establish that it's bad. You can't just assert that it's bad
But I don't even I want to see the connection too
Like once she proves this battle good
Well, I don't think she can prove this battle good until she proves that this connection
She's got about you know, nine and a half minutes left and I won't be around for it
Oh exactly nine and a half minutes. Well, look at me
but um, if there is I mean I have to tell me when I get back or let me know on discord later if they do but
Yeah
I do not like this painting charlie. It's smug or amox me
Um, yeah, the the point is you have to you can't assert that um
No, you you can't assert it, but I won't believe you
Yeah, she's no substantiating it and I feel like it's just going to appeal to the people who already agreed with that statement. Anyway
Yeah
This is the fault of the youtubers the viewers the filmmakers or a little bit of each is a difficult question to answer
But either way you've already it's not made in good faith. It's a great starting point
Yeah, why can't I pause?
So it's not really a stretch to understand why the former category is bad
I mean deciding before you even go see a movie that you have to actively find things to hate about it
Is just never going to make for fair if he wants to criticize
What did you want to pause for it? It kept going for me. Was it supposed for you guys? It was for a moment
It just jumped 13 seconds forward. God damn it. I just so what we'll do what we'll do is
We'll yeah 16 19 is a little we were at 16 50
Okay
I don't know where we were. So I will put it at 16 50 i'll put it at 16 50
All right, um now she's swatting a fly
No, she could be she it's a still she could be beckoning the fly into the warmth
Of the flight
She could be inviting the fly tubers the viewers the filmmakers or a little bit of each is a difficult question to answer
But either way criticism that's not already answered it isn't a great starting point
Unconstructive misinformation
Wouldn't that just be okay misinformation yeah, he was gonna say you would need the unconstructive at that point
All right, let's check it out. So is there such a thing as constructive misinformation
You could lie to somebody together do something positive, I don't know
It's possible. I mean, yeah, maybe you could say that a comforting lie is a white lie. Yeah
I told you your mom had aids to motivate you
It was constructive misinformation
That's a great starting point
So it's not really a stretch to understand why the former category is bad
I mean deciding it really is a movie that you have to actively find things to hate about it
Is just never going to make for fair and nuanced criticism
I don't agree with that
It could result in fair nuanced criticism. It could
Yeah, because how you know people are finding things to hate and it just doesn't fucking hit them
Here's here's the thing if you mention it then if
Finding is implied
It's just because if you've if you're talking about it, then obviously you've identified
Well, I wonder what cinemasins would have to say about this
They're like dude your videos are terrible because you search for problems. You don't just report problems that are found you'd be like
How would I how would I have problems to present if I didn't find them find them?
Yeah, that's what i'm getting at here is like you have to find it to talk about it
And you'd be like yeah, but it's dishonest because you're looking for problems. It's like who cares like you're not supposed to look
how do you separate between of um something that's wrong that's found like
organically or manually
Because if you plan on seeing if you plan on seeing something you have to find something like wrong with it to see if well
See it or not
This kind of smacks this really this argument she's making here really makes me think about
The only critters it's when you talk about how bad a movie is like you're supposed to go into a movie to enjoy it
Mm-hmm
You know if you enjoy it and say it's good
That's way better than saying that it's bad
It's like I feel like the goal here is that you're supposed to enjoy it first and foremost. You're not supposed to be critical
That's that's what I get from this. I don't know if that's what she's saying
Yeah, that's what I'm getting from it. I think that she should be the main star in the lord of the flies remake
She is the lord of she is the lord of the flies
One live or die. I'm not calling her fly to rule them all. I'm not calling her satan. I'm just saying yeah
Yeah, just saying she she's committing the fly holocaust in this video. She she's taking all the flies to all swats
No, no picture i'm thinking about that for a while the had those children like oh
No, it's no don't don't worry about it
but there are a lot of instances of
A swat hitler criticism where the critic really is expressing a strongly held opinion of theirs
For example, you have lily orchard's respective videos about steven universe and the legend of kora being garbage
This isn't a channel that just makes videos about whatever new movie will generate the most clicks
It seems like she only talks about things that she genuinely cares about and it's clear from watching
Even five seconds of her steven universe video that she feels very strongly about this particular show sugar. You are such a fucking oh jesus
Okay, oh man, i don't know this
I am now i'm now viscerally reminded of why I never finished her kora video
so
I don't really care if
They I really the accuracy of the criticisms is what's really paramount
Yeah, we don't care if they're a clone if well, I was going to say we don't care if they're a satire
It's like I guess a part of satire could be that you're a inaccurate deliberately to satirize the person that is inaccurate
This is like I said, this is complicated doing it for just doing it for clicks isn't inherently bad
But if a lot of the times if you just do it for the clicks and your heart isn't in it
That could lead to issues with accuracy and if you're getting the information right and if you're researching enough
And it's clear from watching even five seconds. Oh she called every trump supporter a nazi in the court
She what oh did she?
I didn't I don't think I got to that point unless I just genuinely don't remember even you're hearing it
Like I said, I never watched the fitting finished
This particular show sugar you are such a fucking creep
Jesus christ rebecca. Are you on fucking ambient? Do I think rebecca sugar is a fascist sympathizer?
No, do I blame anybody who comes to the conclusion that she is based on steven universe's content?
No, now i'm going to use this lily orchard video as a case study. That's the voice of lily orchard
Yes
Lily
God, it sounds like that other transgender dude. We watched the other day mauler. Riley. No, riley sounds kind of feminine
No, no, no, not riley
No, no, what's riley?
I thought yeah, well, I mean
No, no, there was a there's a video like a really small video who's a fan of eric
uh, who
Made a video on maulify
Yeah, he tried to say that my my video on shadow of war was racist because I made a we was kang's joke
And then he was like i'm a great a big fan of the lord of the rings and then like
Spouse a bunch of really really
I don't remember
It's damn
He just started saying a bunch of really profoundly inaccurate shit about the lord of the rings and I was like
There's no way you were a lord of the rings fan
But he was the video was so bad that it's just not even worth covering on efap
Well, but we'll i'll get you the link in a second. I know you'll be curious. There you go
Um, but yeah, we know we did actually check it out and we it was it was vatted for efap and it's not going to work
it's to um
It's just the first little 12 minutes are just sort of middling ramblings
I mean he he doesn't actually get to the point until 21 minutes
Yo, and then at that point it's just like I just don't even want to keep watching anymore
Shit, why do we skip so far ahead?
If you're going to talk about it
For example a substantial chunk of her video is dedicated to criticizing the fact that steven universe goes on extremely long
Hiatus is punctuated with large bursts of episodes all at once which makes the show's pacing awkward in and of itself
This is a perfectly good point and it's a valid reason to not enjoy watching the show
Then lily turns around and blames this on the show's animators and storyboarders claiming that this is somehow emblematic of their laziness
But this is just factually incorrect
The show's crew has repeatedly stated that they have no control over the scheduling of their show and that those decisions are entirely up
To the network. I think I wouldn't say that I wouldn't say that makes it a fact necessarily
But that that definitely is evidence for the argument. Yeah, so that's that's a pretty reasonable response to that
Yeah, that's reasonable and this seems to be something she's passionate about in reverse
She seems to be interested because the fact that she was so specific with this
Implies to me that she knows a bit about this already and that's why she's
Like this could be the the reason she made this video like some of this stuff was like, okay
I've definitely got a point here. I just want to add, you know context for all of it and use some other examples
Maybe like yeah. No, that was
thumbs up
This video regularly performs these kinds of factually incorrect over extensions
Okay saying regularly and you only got one example is is something that I get a lot
Someone's like one example of you getting a thing wrong. Your video is all this
I'm like god. Imagine if she watched er's of a video or
I don't know steven universe
Probably break or break
So someone just said someone who hates lily with a burning passion of a thousand stars
This video is not a good critique of his work
I wouldn't have said that myself because I haven't seen the lilies video but so far
This is wait, I don't know who's is it her he I don't know
I can't figure it out his
Like like legitimately I I don't know which way they're trying to go here. We just say they
Okay
Um, because like i'm not i'm not trying to be like insulting or meme because like I I legitimately
And I tend to give people like that who I don't
See now that you said what do you mean people like that? I mean trans people you fuck
Transitional people I I just i just gonna call it a he because it sounds and looks like a he
Sure. Well, you sound look like a freaking person not a wolf inside a
A mouth of sorrow and outfits. What's that about wolf?
You see I get called transphobic, but I in earnest want to know
Like I call I get I call riley a she don't fucking give me that transphobic bullshit if I call riley a she
The most insufferable cunt in the universe
He identifies as like non-binary and a
Some so it doesn't make any sense. I'm so transfused right now
Listen, I even have enough respect for riley to call her a cunt
Same
Um
Where were we? Yeah, this this is uh as criticism of lily's video. I wouldn't even know
I haven't been shown enough. That's that's one
What I would say incomplete criticism
But it has enough argumentation for me to believe that there's more to the story than lily suggested
But that's probably what like less than one percent of lily's video. So
I yeah, I don't know. I haven't seen the video
And you know, you can say the same for me. Uh, my examples in my video were singular examples like against patrick. I think I had three
Quint and I had like
One or two, but I suggested the podcast like yeah, I get that. You can't say a whole statement about an entire video, but I think I
Point being is that yeah, I I've not got my opinion changed about lily's video from this video
Someone says i'm a train's man. I identify as a male train
Anyway
Lily blames showrunner rebecca sugar for designing a contentious scrapped character that many felt evoked racist imagery
Despite the fact that the character was created by low that they've that doesn't mean anything. They just internalize their racism
Don't you know?
Maybe you internalize don't have the approved, right?
Why do you think why do you think black conservatives catch so much shit because they don't have the approved black position?
Like why do you think gay conservatives get so much shit?
It's because gays aren't supposed to be conservative. What's the thing?
I mean if if she fundamentally disagrees and lily fundamentally like is fully in support
I wouldn't mind seeing them talk about this subject, but discussing things with people is like acid these days
Speaking of discussing things with people is like acid
I need to go
Oh, so i'm
Gonna have to bounce
I will catch you later tonight. Maybe I don't know i'll be back in a number of hours
Very well to have fun with whatever it is. You do. Yeah, thanks. Every we still have
2227 people watching that's crazy
That's great
That's great, that's
That is so that is simultaneously
baffling and at the same time
endearing
Yes, and someone in the chat said that this girl is non-fly nary
non-fly nary
Burn sick burn, but anyway, um, so goodbye everybody and moral engines is terrible. So i'll catch you all later
See you rag like you said moral engines
Dude there's a guy who's been asking him why he hates mortal engines like every two and a half minutes
Since we started I saw rags when he was like shut up about
Um
Yeah, all right. I guess we'll we'll we'll we'll carry on showrunner rebecca sugar for designing a contentious scrapped character that many felt evoked
Racist imagery despite the fact that the character was created by lamar abrams and hillary florida
She then criticizes the animation pointing out some size inconsistencies in certain characters and a few animation mistakes fair
But she then ascribes all of the animation errors present on the show to rebecca sugar specifically because sugar draws the keyframes
If you have literally any knowledge of how the animation industry works, you know that this is just not true
You just cannot blame one person for all see at this point i'd be like i'd recommend you actually make a response video
Sounds like you've got some points to make
Sounds like you could probably do a bit of a takedown sort of
Like and you could be like no
I need to talk about it as a whole and to make people aware of
Having more alertness when listening to reviewers and i'd be like I agree
Problem is that the person you're going after might even agree with that statement, too. And so
Telling people to be more aware
They'll be like that message means that I need to really pay attention and figure out what maul is lying about and then some other guy
Goes I agree and he really pay attention and figure out what quinton's lying about and those two are like
No, that guy's the liar. No, that guy's the liar, you know, it's just like that spider-man picture where they just pointed each other
So um look she's about to catch another fly
That's the important commentary
All of the animation problems within a show and repeatedly singling out one person expresses more of a personal problem with them than anything
Supported by fact furthermore lily claims that rebecca sugar stole several game-breaking twists such as character rose quartz being the alter ego
Of supposedly dead leader pink diamond from fans pointing to the fact that fans had theorized about the twist years before it was revealed
now besides the fact that lily seems to think that foreshadowing working exactly as it was intended to
Somehow means the show stole the theory from its fans
You would know that this happening is literally impossible if you did even five minutes of light googling on okay
So someone I just realized you know how she opened this video with being like
Theory princess is dumb because of this cell being this way and that's why it's bad
Isn't she kind of doing that to this person's review? I'm not saying it's not valid
I'm saying isn't she being a little bit inconsistent there like being like
God people take it way too seriously to criticize a show it's that level and it's like
You're criticizing her work to that level on a show
Is that any different I wonder if she considers that um different I don't know
Probably not just say
How long it takes between an animated episode being planned and the episode airing?
It can quite literally take over a year for an episode to be written
Storyboarded voice acted sent to korea for animation produced rendered and sent off to the network for airing
Yeah, I guess it is
I didn't actually know that but I mean
Hang on wouldn't it be really difficult to figure out what's going on in the animation if that's the kind of stuff that's going on
You know in terms of figuring out who's responsible for
yeah, I think that contributed to a lot of the
The inconsistent animation not somebody else someone else pointed it out
But the animation is inconsistent like some of the the height differences vary each person like in
Part of that was because they outsourced the animation to korea
and to north korea
Someone said the intro was a joke. It's it's uh,
Hyperbolic, but like that's my point is that she was satirizing then right? We all agree on that, right?
She wasn't being serious. The point was that these people go too far
They take like something that's meant for children and they analyze it to death, which is totally something that I get
But i'm just curious avatar was fading korea. That's crazy. I didn't know that
Yeah, isn't that the argument for me for why it's anime?
Unless he said it was like inspired. He said it was inspired by anime. Uh
anime like they're they were inspired by anime in certain
aspects of the
Surprised me. I just assumed that there was like some american studio that like made this stuff
I didn't know they just outsourced everything to korea
Yeah
It kind of disappoints me a little bit
Looks like it looks like there's a there's a lot of a lot of people know a lot of different things about this
Not just about steven universe or about that specific critique video, but also just about
Korean animation. This is just stuff. I don't know about so i'm just like hmm interesting
Sent to korea for animation produced rendered and sent off to the network for airing
This means that while the episodes that hinted at rose being pink diamond were airing and theories were developing the episode revealing
The twist was already in production
Lily either doesn't know this because she chose not to do any research or knows this and does not care because the truth of the
Matter can't be used to insult rebecca sugar
Fair enough from what I can tell I guys should see maybe someone in chat
I could figure out a bit of a breach there, but it sounded like that all followed
This is a theme that's consistent throughout this video and many others lily
Well lily talked about that su's
Production team blamed korean animation team for the animation mistake when su's production team did not provide sufficient reference in the first place. Okay
Yeah, this feels like this is the kind of thing that I can't really comment on because I'd need more specific information about this show
Clearly hates rebecca sugar calling her a fascism apologist and a thoroughly loathsome person among other things
And because of lily's personal dislike for sugar
She's turned to ascribing characters and episodes that sugar didn't even create as like proof of her detestability
In short she's taken an unconstructive personal opinion and tried to back it up with factually incorrect evidence that she's framed as objectivity
This kind of terror. Oh
Does she actually agree with objectivity?
I don't know why this chick just didn't make a
Straightforward response to the lily because that's what it seems like. She has that's what it seems like
She has a beef with is lily orchard. Well that and a bit of cinema sins, I guess
Yeah, a bit of flies look her claws are getting ready
Like I didn't I didn't I thought I because I just i'm so used to people being like you can't be objective about
She just said that and it's like ooh
Air down video has unfortunately become more and more common
Instead of explaining why something didn't work in a productive way
A lot of this media criticism has devolved into a desire to definitively destroy something
That was a very alliterative sentence failures in storytelling or and I would agree with her
But I would have the caveat that it goes both ways
There are people out there who just want to celebrate a thing
No matter what and is it is it morally better to do either of those things than the other?
Uh
Not really I mean
It's just a thing
It's like you either really think one reviewer is going to ruin
An entire studio or an or like an actor's crew. No, no
And then but then like in fairness, um mauler you can attest to this, uh, joseph anderson
Like kind of fucked with the sales of soma for his criticism
Yeah, i'll never argue that he fucking ruined frictional or anything like or damaged even
Well, I know I just say that damaged his reputation to a small degree because there's people in his comment section
We're like I was gonna pick this up, but thanks for you know, help me avoid it
It's like hmm
And then you could be like but more is people who say that in your comment sections about stuff like the predator
And i'd be like but I was accurate with the predator
I didn't lie about it. He like
He'd be like prove that joseph addison lies i'd be like well, I mean I got a series of videos
Go on
Another now they're calling this girl your new waifu. I've seen i've seen apparently it arouses me if someone says objectivity
Failures in storytelling or animation are frequently ascribed to one singular person
This is a common theme in nostalgia critic reviews and creators are often described with personal attacks on their character
and she's right about that because uh, I was actually watching
the jurassic world fallen kingdom with
My sister and her boyfriend who really visit but they they were here and he's like, um special effects art director
He's he's had work in a lot of films and I said I really like
The cinematography in fallen kingdom and then I said, um
But then again, I think jay boner is a pretty good director in general like not amazing, but he's got a couple books and then uh
He was like that's not the director. I was like, what do you mean? He was like
the cinematography would be the cinematographer the guy who
The there's another word for it
But he's basically like that's who did that not the director and it's like, oh, yeah
And and I clarified and I was like that kind of does happen. We ascribe like
Errors sometimes to people that might not be responsible
For example, it's like who's more responsible for the script of the last jedi the guy who created it or the person who approved the script
Guy who created it you sure yeah
Well, damn it. Well, the guy who approved it is definitely dumb, but no one could
I mean look
That's one kind of dumb
But ryan is a special kind of dumb since he was the one that actually had to make that script
It just it's interesting to me because it's like well, of course, it's his fault
He created it and it's like but of course it's her fault because she approved it. She could have stopped it
It's both their fault. Yeah, you know
Then you'd be like, okay
What about you find out there's a guy called john who?
Did a bunch of rewrites and he put all the worst stuff in there
It's like oh, I guess that was I guess that was kind of his fault more so then I mean technically
This is all george lucas's fault for selling it in the first place
Then it's all whoever's fault was who were his parents and then their parents and then their parents because they created george to have made that
This is just like oh fuck. We can't do this
you go all
You're not even going back to the bloodlines the bloodline back to like jesus and it's like jesus's fault
You nutted inside of martha lucas and fucked us all
You know we have to watch this shit
So you go to the grandmother of george lucas for some reason she's just still alive
But really on just like last jedi thrown in her face. This is your fault
You just hang the bitch over a balcony like you bitch
Oh man, i'm looking at that that mark on her door and now I just expect jared to come through like
anyways guys
Oh charrod
And because this media criticism is often made by people who are uninformed about the entertainment industry and have chosen not to do any research
They feel more like personal opinions than well substantiated essays
Unfortunately, this illusion of authority has real effects
As it turns out as long as you speak in an authoritative tone of voice
Have some cool background music going on and play some clips from whatever it is
You're talking about she got another flight tend to assume. You know what you're doing
That applies to literally like everybody
um
It's funny. She said that because h bob a guy admitted to that in his video
He said I speak authoritatively sometimes because I find it to be a more persuasive way of presenting my argument
He said that one for one and it's not that he's
Wrong. It's just that for me. I was just like yeah, you you you pose as assertive for comments
You're not even sure about and that's kind of the problem
Um, I usually try and change my language up when i'm doing something like a fact versus something that's unsubstantiated versus a feeling
I will usually try and go from
You know, this is x to I kind of felt this was x
In my videos and I think it's an important distinction because yeah, if you speak authoritatively
About anything and you're completely wrong, there will be someone who goes hmm sounds like he's right. That's probably right
like no stop
That's not to say everyone who uses this structure is being disingenuous a lot of great video essayists use this structure
I use this structure
And it's precisely the fact that people are imitating this structure imitating the aesthetic of a well-supported essay
But their actual content is filled with inaccurate information and personal attacks. That is so deeply frustrating
Now just to be clear everyone is entitled to their own opinions about let the fly go
Oh
Top comment is like wolf being like what happened to the fly explain
We need evidence
I'd love to see like a bunch of people like go to work. Yo and like respectfully say please let the flies leave
I don't know why you've done this
She starts looking at the comments. It's just like what fly
Deeply frustrating now just to be clear everyone is entitled to their own opinions about whatever they watch
And i'm not saying you're not allowed to complain about something you didn't like if you're not an expert on the entertainment industry
On the other hand these people frequently frame their personal opinions as objective truth
It's not I don't like stephen universe
It's stephen universe is objectively horrible
You might be able to get away with that if you're backing up whatever you're saying with I like that eric
Thought this was a criticism of me, but a lot of this is what's this kind of stuff I say
I'm like, yeah, you can say you don't like something
But it's a difference between that and saying it's objectively bad
She seems to think that you can say something's objectively bad as long as you prove it
You getting that impression? I know I am
Yeah, I don't think she's saying you can't
Evidence like Lindsay Ellis and other video essays do
But when your video is just about trying to tear something you don't like down instead of providing any real analysis
It's not reasonable to frame what you're saying as if it's just objectively correct
Overall youtube allows pretty much anyone to make videos and talk about things that interest them
And that's overwhelmingly a good thing because it makes knowledge more accessible and doesn't restrict one's ability to express oneself to a select view
With connections
It wouldn't be right to claim that only people who review movies for newspapers for living or people working in the entertainment
Industry are allowed to criticize things and it's great that more people are able to build a platform based on well-made content
The downside of that is that anyone who knows enough tricks to sound authoritative can be taken seriously
It's funny because i'd say like yeah, you're right. He probably does do that and she's like no. No, he's a good one
Oh, sorry, I thought no
Even when there's very little leave little dutch boy alone
I mean if I were a casual viewer watching lily orchard's video and I hadn't done any research into how the animation
People are saying you are objectively in love
This is gonna be a meme though, isn't it? You know molar judging from this video. I think you should bring her over. What does that mean?
You can't molar don't she's canadian you can't side with the enemy. That's true. This is very true
And she'll just apologize no matter what anyway
Get that strawberry shortcake going
Even though there's very little substance there
I mean if I were a casual viewer watching lily orchard's video and I hadn't done any research into how the animation industry worked
I probably would have believed her when she said the show's animation was bad because of rebecca sugar
I don't like how a lot of critics will say a thing and people don't realize and then they think the thing
Yeah, I agree. I don't know. This is we get into a problem now. She's trying to say stuff. I
I can't disagree with and so we just play and approve i'm sorry
I can't do anything. I'd be like, yeah, it's true. That that is the bad thing
Chat when you ask us to play good videos, this is why we can't this is what happens. We just go. Yeah
Wait, because then we're just like well, yeah
Because like what are we supposed to respond to?
People are only interested in tearing down something they hate and they do so in a way where they frame their personal opinion as objective truth
They're not creating a positive contribution to media criticism. I'm not sure I necessarily agree with that
It depends you can have a character who's solely about ripping things apart
Like I don't think Plinkett's ever done a positive review
He could argue he's only doing negative ones
But he has plenty of constructive criticism and what if during your angry rant you suggest improvements like this was stupid
But you could have done this and it could have been better
But you know be like, oh that was constructive as long as they're at least a little bit surely that you could say that it's uh
Funny yeah, so i'd say that's contextual
But I know that eric thinks that applies to me because I like a lot of people have been saying like why are you outwardly?
Hating tfa and i'm like it's not gonna be that at all in this whole series and I don't intend to do that
I don't think I did that with tlj series
I I think there were three instances where I said this isn't bad
In the movie there was like three five-second bows where I was like, hey, this is pretty good
And hey wolf did that too his opening for his tlj video. That was his first one
You said a whole bunch of good things, didn't you?
Yeah, well two
See two guys see
It's not about thinking up ways media could be better or helping foster empathy for other people. It's just disingenuous and frustrating
So the implied fly said I beg of you efap or some fetch me and my friends
It's not about thinking up ways media could be better or helping foster empathy for other people
It's just disingenuous and frustrating and it contributes to a culture of personal attacks and misinformation
Youtube is great because anyone can make a video and talk about whatever they want
And youtube is terrible because anyone can make a video and talk about whatever they want
As a whole the nature of this website has shaped the way we criticize things and has even shaped the way tv shows and movies
Are made there is a lot of still still waiting for proof for that
other than the russo brothers accepts the russo brothers a little bit but
Have really great work on youtube centered around analyzing and criticizing various forms of media
Be it looking at the technical elements that went into making certain shows
Thinking about the real world implications of certain art forms or focusing on story and performance
But there's also a lot of work that doesn't seem concerned with making good content and instead focuses on either low effort
Criticism that generates the most clicks or tearing down art that the reviewer personally doesn't like
Both of these types of work are often filled with incorrect information that might not be immediately obvious to a viewer
She's being really careful with the script. I can't really complain here. She's like it can be it often is it blah blah blah. It's like
Yeah, as long as she can prove singular
Times with these things happen. She's not necessarily wrong and I know that I can do that. So
Help guys rip into it. We have to attack her
We have to be evil. Uh
All right. All right. I got something. I got something
Bitch iron out your fucking posters
All right, you know what you're right they are they are wobbly maybe it's a part of the like hippie aesthetic
Make sure you're going for mixed with dr. Who, you know, they're all wavy
I thought you meant that they're like wibbly, you know, like they're
What do you mean by yeah your posters like they're what they're fucking they're fucking curling on the wall for some reason
She's going for the dr. Who look maybe it's supposed to be all curly, huh? How about that? I I don't know fucking clue how that
Just picture you in the room like no that is not an excuse
Get your iron out I'll fix this shit
And both of these criticisms often have a lot of aesthetic similarities to more well-made content and present their opinions as objective fact
That is bad. Now. I know cinema sin isn't going to stop making nitpick videos anytime soon and people aren't going to stop watching them either
I'm not asking anyone who watches this to unsubscribe from their favorite channel
But we should remember that those channels are kind of like potato chips
They're a fun snack and there's nothing wrong with enjoying them
But just because they're easy to digest doesn't mean we should think they're healthy and have them for every meal. I'm a dorito
Excuse you
I'm a sun chip
Also, I I left for just a second, but I still heard you
Obviously her posters are just like Jared like put like gluing his hot wheels to the wall
We try to hide about forage I was like no they're like that by design
You can take one thing from my video
It would be to check out some really great media criticism channels as well
And i've linked some of my favorites in the description the potato chip metaphor has made me hungry
So I think i'm gonna go grab some and binge some lindsey ellis or do some more
That's a bad thing to binge
I tried to watch her beauty and the beast review and I couldn't get the
It's a word salad like you're just going yeah, I didn't get it
I was watching her I didn't understand. I wasn't following like it's like a ramble her video on uh,
Beauty and the beast I was trying I was having struggling following it. I couldn't even understand what the film did
Like I was like yeah, that was that was the video. I watched after her hobbit videos and her hobbit
Actually really really good
And then I watched the the beauty and the beast one and I was like, what what is this?
And this is not hating on lindsey ellis as a whole just saying you know
Because there are videos that wolf has made that I don't like probably and vice versa is probably true
Like everyone's capable of making bad videos. It's totally cool. Just uh
Yeah, that's all
It's really gonna finish with my point to make a point. Oh, oh someone said she'll take a potato chip
And eat it
I think quinta. Do you understand that one? I don't I don't I don't follow. What's that? I think that's isn't that a
It's a death note. Yeah, I was gonna say I don't watch
I'm not aware a weeb is it that's what they call
Okay, well you and me need to watch you and me need to watch death note because I read the manga and it's awesome
I already need to watch a whole bunch of other things wolf. Yeah, I know
Yeah, I know you've been asking me if you uh, if i've read berserk, I actually did just buy the first like
Volume of berserk. I haven't read it yet, but I do own it now
Oh, there you go
Just so people will stop asking me. There's still 30 seconds. Is this just credits?
Special thank you to my patreon supporters
What was that about?
Look, uh, I can't what in the world it
Okay, i'm skipping that name. Alex wenberg, Amelia, anthony paeon, kalim burgth, david, deneth riffle
Okay, uh, well, yeah that was the video, uh, what do you what do you reckon wolf?
What of the video you fucking retard what do you think of the video?
Uh, it was kind of rambly
Like I some of the things I didn't necessarily disagree with she just didn't really provide any like
examples or evidence to her points
Yeah, the most substantive stuff came in with cinema sins, I think and then the the um
Fuck the steven universe stuff
Then there was a lot of statements that were
Things I wouldn't be able to poke a hole in but then lots where we could like me and rags had a field day with
some of those statements
Yeah, it's like, you know
This is arbitrary like it's like it's an okay video. It's okay
That's probably the best rating we've ever had on efap
It's better than quinton
By far he's he's linked as here recommended one of the recommended reviewers
This makes the video worse it's like I want to like you but I can't
I am not a weave also baller. This is one punch man
Give my videos like I was joking
Oh god
All the one punch the fact that you talked about anime now
Everyone's going to be like see he is an alt writer because he likes anime how though oh no
I don't know for some reason people tend to equate
People who watch anime with the alt, right? I'm not sure why I think it has something to do with asian girls
and like like oh
You're like alt writers. Uh
Apparently to these people
Or like associated with like weird sexual fetishes with asian roles and shit like that. I don't know
I just thought it was like an arc style. I just like it
I mean like when it comes to alt writers, that's I mean, that's how
Like jackasses like I don't know why they I just don't know why
They
They tie the two together that way it's just it's dumb. Oh, you know what? I just realized there's that meme from uh major lee where he
Everyone was saying like something but with women like that changes the thing itself. So like I just realized you could call this efap with women
Yeah, it's the first one we've ever had a video called tech creator odd ad criticized that's yeah
We're talking to one and talking about one. It's amazing
The way you presented that is like we've talked to one of these creatures and we're also placing one on the screen
And we're we finally covered women so shut the fuck up
Well, I mean next time it'll be like, okay, but have you ever had uh, a dinosaur like
Ridiculous request I was gonna say i'm gonna have to read some of these two chats now. This is gonna
You guys are welcome to get drinks or go to toilet or whatever. I'm just gonna try and this is where the fun begins
So I was listening to hugo and jake be dumb about the sargon patreon thing. Efap went live and saved me have shekels. I
Oh hugo and shake what?
I didn't know that you could have i'm curious to see their take on that now because i'm not really
I mean people who don't like sargon are supporting sargon on this one as far as I know it's weird because it's like
Ah, I I like them, but it's like every time they talk about something that isn't about religion then it's like
Stop, please
Ah, yeah, okay. All right. Well, yeah, i'll have to
Yeah, they've got does patreon have a right to refuse service, I guess
So i'll have to check that out see what they say
Mola, please speak in your patrick william's voice in the next five minutes bilbo baguins. I don't like speaking that way. It's
Uh is like potholes don't actually matter. It's like
I have
I have a really bad hairline
I mean you do have a really bad
I look I look like mobi
Now you're just being racist just because he's why you're saying it's like mobi. Wow
Uh, can't remember who recommended orry, but i'm curious how you think it compares to hollow knight. I think both games are great
Oh, that's definitely me. Um
I haven't finished hollow knight really haven't played much of hollow knight, but from what I have played they're not really comparable
Because hollow knight's more combat focused whereas orry's more platformer focused
And a lot of people tend to give orry shit for not having good combat when it's not the point at all
I can agree with you on that. I prefer orry and it's probably because I absolutely adore the art style even though
The art the story the music
Everything I love that game. I was gonna say i'd have to play both of them again to give a solid yeah
I like hollow knight though. Yeah, I just like it for different reasons
Uh, anyone here read shamus young's blog
Who's that?
I've never heard of him. What's your opinion on his 50 chapters of mass effect trilogy retrospective?
I'm afraid I do not know who that is. Um
And it looks like the other two do not as well membership. Oh sounds cool
I finally get to listen live after weeks of catching them late. Hope y'all are okay and enjoyed the holidays
Uh, did did you guys have a good holiday?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was gonna cut you off and say I don't care but then you already said yes, so
Damn it. You ruined my joke
Uh, but yes, no holidays have been fun. And yeah membership is essentially
subscribing for youtube
And um, it's just an alternative to patreon, which is what uh, I was hoping
Would help out with people who really don't agree with patreon right now, which I understand
There's a lot of people but the the reasoning that it's actually worth it is just for the jared memes
Oh, I want I don't think he knows about this. Yeah, I want him to come in and see
Um
Random question have any of you seen watership down? I think all of us probably have
No, not in a very very long
Oh
well, he's seen it not in a long time i've seen it but not in quite a while to be honest, but uh
Yeah, basically every everything that film has its reputation is just gonna go
Like repeated years it's like yeah, it's horrifying for kids to watch
Yeah, and they watched it as a kid. So yeah
Oh, and yeah the membership thing there's a link in description and it takes you to my gaming page on youtube
And then you have to click join and that's how you get the membership for some reason
It's not on the main page because youtube said it's still glitched and they haven't fixed it yet. That's what I was told
um
But generally first told me by the way was that um, you're not eligible and I was like, what do you mean?
They're like, well if it's not showing up, you're not eligible and I was like
But i've got this message that literally says that I have memberships and I tested it and it works
They were like, oh
I guess it just doesn't show up then
Thanks guys
But uh, it's supposed to be like i'm not the only channel that has this as a problem. So
Eventually, we did it guys. We finally got efap with women. Oh, there you go. The memes someone nailed it already
You're gonna watch the vader fan film
I saw the teaser trailer. Have you seen this wolf?
I've heard of it. I haven't looked into it. If enough people are like it's utterly amazing
Then I guess i'll check it out, but I haven't heard too much
Uh from it shinobi put back his videos for response to fallen kingdom as well as making new ones
You're gonna see those we so you may as well say it in the in the podcast
We said it on discord, I think but uh, we're not gonna cover shinobi again. He lost his mind when we covered him
Uh, I bet that he had too much of a mind to lose
But it was pretty bad like that man does not understand what criticism is. He just fucking goes crazy
Uh, so it's probably best. We have pointed out that yeah, and I pointed out like he he's making up
Uh attacks against him. He posted on twitter a bunch of comments
Like mocking his voice and he said people posted these on my channel
But you can like literally find them on the efap video itself
Not his videos which isn't to say there probably is
uh
Comments that are offensive quote unquote on his video, but there's loads of constructive comments, too
And what do you want me to say? Like let's just go through all all three of us here right now could go search our comments section
All offensive stuff. Could we not?
It's just like it comes with the territory and you'd be like, yeah, but you directed them, too
It was like we did the disclaimer we said to leave him alone
At this point you're advocating for no criticism across the board and he criticized wolf. So
Which by the way, he cheaply criticized me and wolf
so
We're in that position
Where we're like, can you let us know when we're allowed to criticize somebody because your rules are retarded
It's like you just keep telling us like we can't do it for x reason. That doesn't make sense
Anyway on to a really positive comment
This is my first podcast i'd rather coat a man's arm in gorilla glue have him fist me up his
Elbow wait for the glue to drive and then yank his arm out as hard as he can then quit watching efap
Jesus Christ
I don't
Okay
Who is the most beautiful of the podcast this person said hit one for wolf they haven't even offered options
I mean, I would I would argue i'm like objectively the ugly, okay
Wow, that's offensive to people who like to be ugly who are here
Why would you like to be ugly?
Can't watch today, but i'll certainly watch this three times later and not be bored. I love that. That's still going
Stupid me right everything. Uh, I don't see a joy button on your channel. Yeah, you find it through the gaming link
it's in the description and like I said, it's weird and
Probably why we won't have many members because it's like convoluted to actually get there
But it's worth it for the jared emotes
Uh, you guys should read the comments give people what they really want. Oh fuck. That's a reference to the youtube rewind, isn't it?
Oh god, did you guys see the fixed rewind from pewdiepie?
Yep, I was like he actually I thought it was sort of a joke that I watched I was like
He actually managed to pull off what I would consider to be much closer to what youtube rewind should be
So that's pretty cool. If he keeps doing that every year youtube will probably get pissed stop doing that
Uh, probably deplatform him entirely. Could you imagine the outrage if they booted pewdiepie off youtube?
Oh, yeah
YouTube would immediately crumble. I was gonna say if he actually set up another place to stay
I think a bunch of creators would join him in protest
That could kill youtube thinking about it a lot of people ask what could kill youtube
It's like if they booted pewdiepie for some reason that could kill youtube
Yeah, he'd probably be so pissed. He'd start his own
His own website
Uh birthday streaming I keep up the good work guys. Happy jesus stick day, by the way. That's a deep meme
The jesus stick things from my outlast series
Uh, how much do we have to pay to get jared onto efap? My life isn't complete without it
I I don't know if we could have him on efap. What do you reckon wolf?
Oh, I think he'd be up for it
I think we should just we should go back to watching jared videos in general because he's all
He's what
He's all for it. Oh, he likes it
I mean, I like the idea of bringing him on and then having him suggest videos we cover just to see how we need
To just say yeah, that would be a great one
Uh roses are red you guys are famous i'm warning you ragsy prepare your anus beautiful
Poor rags the path to objective logical criticism is so powerful some consider it to be unnatural
That's a reference to that star trek movie, isn't it?
Totally
Um
Oh and someone mentioned sorry, I missed who it was but someone mentioned the monkey jones thing. Um rags has been away since
We said about it to the 28th
And obviously we got christmas new year's stuff going on
So I think we're still going on state of the youtube podcast me and rags together. I'm not sure 100 though
So it might be happening
Big you fan big big fan of you guys's stream even tough
Even though I can't catch all of it live and we'll have to watch
The other eight hours due to time zones later free real estate. Well, yep, fair enough. Thank you
I really like all your content, but I would appreciate some more long-form videos. Come on get it together
I mean they're coming
It was two hours and 40 minutes. It's not like it was short
Shout out to darth. Jared genesis rags sounds like the 12 years old jordan peterson. They did amazing the way they did it
One-year-old jordan peterson come on he doesn't even sound like hermit the
Um, I find what you just said offensive
Okay
Opinions on the stalker games a movie. Have you got one wolf?
Uh, I haven't seen the movie but I read uh, the book roadside picnic
I really loved that and the stalker games first one is amazing second one sucks third one is amazing
Well, there you go. I got no connection to stalker, but alex has wanted me to play it for like a million years
Oh, it's so good. Got a mod it but it's so good. Oh my god. He's a queer
Because somebody said that as a super chat I had to do it in the voice was
Was not expecting one this week. Love you guys. Keep it the hard work and happy new year
Thank you, james. And yeah, we weren't intending to do one, but we figured out we actually had a slot
This is like the only available time and it wasn't even
Fully available for rags. I love the deal from attack of the quiz
That's
To the right to the last one
I honestly like this fight scene until you brought up how choreographed it was still like it but I agreed darth male fight is much better
I yeah, I mean, I don't I don't think i'm comfortable in saying the throne room fight is good anymore
There's so many choreography mistakes
Like it's just throwing away a stick
You look at if kylo looked at it with that fight just middle of it's just like thanks
Um, hi rag, hello
They'll be watching this tomorrow in the middle of a camelot series marathon best french tv show ever
You guys have a great night and a fantastic new year's eve. Thank you very much
I feel like today's media
Especially weston cartoons have very low standards and more people just willing to accept it. Also great cnj long bone. Hey, there you go
Hey
That was awful
It was beautiful
That means an invasion someone dare defended canto bites scene by saying that
That the horror scene from empire was also irrelevant to the plot and doesn't move it your thoughts. What's the horror scene from?
empire
Uh, I think you might be talking about the cave
How is that irrelevant?
How's that horror?
I get it. I mean, I guess that you can say it's creepy ish maybe yeah, because we're as the audience
We're like, holy shit. Is that fucking darth vader right there? Like what the hell?
Like oh, no luke might die. But then it's like wait luke was darth vader. Like what does this mean?
It's all metaphor but irrelevant like canto bites irrelevant. I wouldn't go that far
I'd have to hear what they mean by irrelevant to the plot. Um, I miss official molar. Wait, what I miss I is
I don't know what that is. I something official molar is the sargon of the media review crew
Everybody hates him for no reason. Good luck. I have to get kicked off patreon
Oh, I hope not
I saw you you put out a tweet, right? Like you've taken a hit thanks to this the patreon stuff with sargon
uh, lauren
Oh, yeah, um couple people like two people
Drop, you know drop my patron
But it's okay was the thing I got the same thing happened
Quite a few people and I was just like they were like apologizing. I was like, you don't have to really apologize. I I understand
The principle of not wanting to have any money go to patreon
The unfortunate thing is there's not an easy decision for us to find like an equally good position
To sort of take it's it's just it sucks. And uh, it's complicated
But we understand. Um
Loving the live stream boys. Keep with the good work. Looking forward to a playthrough of colonial marines
Please dissect it to your heart's content. I mean, it's not like it's gonna be an analysis. We'll probably just be fucking riffing on it
Right running through
We played uh two missions was it or was it just that one in the dlc? Yeah, I think it was we did too
I can't remember but we um
Yeah, where we both like fit into the same locker and then the one guy dies and then
The black guy's like come on man
You get the headset and then the black guy suddenly has the headset too for no reason
Oh fun fun time. Uh h bomber guy was on movie circle jig sniping at a tfa review
H bomber guy doesn't like to acknowledge my existence
Except when he wants to tweet snipe shit at me, you know that that comment in my video where he said, um
Someone like someone said like they they watched 10 minutes of my video
And they knew it was awful
And then I was just like how the fuck would you know?
It's awful if you're gonna watch 10 minutes and then h bomber guy said, you know
When you have a meal and you when you eat a part of the meal
And you realize that it's not going to taste good. You stop eating the meal
And I was like, yeah, but if you eat a fucking potato and tell the chef that the whole thing was awful
He was just gonna be like you didn't even eat the rest of it. What do you mean?
Well, I didn't like the potato and uh
He didn't respond. It's always like why do you never respond? We can have a conversation. Do you know what those are?
It's like, okay, whatever
Well, would you like tlj a bit more if it turned out snoke was a self-made sith as much as ray is a self-made jedi
The force like life finds a way interested in y'all's opinion on that thought
I mean i'm not
Snoke's power level
Isn't too much of a concern for me. You could just tell me that he's been around since before palpatine
He's been in the shadows. I'd be like, okay. Yeah, you just know you tell us something
Yeah
Is less the power levels more how he managed to screw everything up for all of our heroes and how he managed to resurrect the first order
That's the stuff i'm like, how do you do that?
Objective scum p.s. You're my favorite critic at the moment. Thank you molar is jesus that's confirmed by rags
Why sniper petty things if you can take better shots an actual quote by a military marksman?
Well, there you go
Well, that that's a little bit different from the snipe and we're talking
How is it any different to comment on a youtube video than to shoot a target with a sniper rifle?
Explain that love
Well one dies
We all die one dies horribly
The video you mean
Is the guy wearing body armor?
Uh, sorry
But I have to go to the dmv and learn some hyperdrive
Want us wanted to stay might come back before the end. Happy new year. Happy new year
Do steve shy's video on star trek discovery? Oh god. I don't want to do a steve shy's video. I haven't even seen star trek discovery. So
Uh, crystal. I did one video on that
Yeah, it's a little piece of shit video
I got covered. I think I think I did pretty decent. I'm sure it's amusing crystal skull is as good as the other indie films
wrong
Where did this come from do we ever discuss it yet? I mean fuck that is a controversial opinion
Uh, but anyway guys i'm here to be controversial opinion. It's a wrong opinion
Did you say that it's clearly better there's aliens when were the aliens and the other ones?
Well shyla buff was also in it, but that doesn't make it better
shyla buff
Anyway, guys i'm here to be cheered up after the depression
Sfo's video on mastercard shenanigans gg2 electric boogaloo. Love the new molar vid. Well, thank you
This person's called centrist glass cannon
Interesting name. I love all of you guys and can't wait for more content
That means you rags molar. Have you seen the original 12 angry men?
I saw
I'm, not sure if that's the original. I think it is. But yes, I talked about it on one of the efaps
I think 12 angry men need to watch that again. I liked it
I believe that people feel obligated to defend the last jedi out of affiliation rather than any artistic standard or personal conviction
I think that definitely applies to some but I think there are people out there
Who do believe that last jedi is good
Like we accept that right wolf
People are they actually thought the film was very well made right? Yeah, it's just I don't respect those people
um
New challenge you get to insert one in my opinion into any line of dialogue and revenge of the sith. Would you put it?
I have to do it
You guys got any suggestions
What was the question again? You get to put in my opinion at the end of any piece of dialogue and revenge of the sith
You are the chosen one in my opinion
Oh, okay, okay
God damn it. I'm trying to think of something in my opinion
He's too dangerous. He's too dangerous to be left alive in my opinion
You got a lot of patience shall rule the galaxy in my opinion
They left me scarred and deformed in my opinion
This is how liberty dies in my opinion
There's always so sorry in my opinion all these statements just go to the next I'll just look at them like what the fuck you just say
You said i'm here to kill me in my opinion
Uh, look I get the wolf is the mouth of sauron, but dude brush your teeth also rags video when oh
Don't tell me what to do. That rag said it was newsy, right? Was that the intention? I think you said that
What I think rag said he's doing a new video in new year's eve
I think oh, I don't know. He said like a week ago two weeks
Oh, well, it's kind of confused. It's on the way. I don't know
So uncivilized in my opinion
I've watched a tfa intro three times now and I wasn't bored
It's nice to have 30 years of efap been condensed into three hours. Here's to
2019 a lot of people said that the intro felt like efap condensed. It's like yeah
I mean, you know a lot of it was thanks to efap that I knew about these things
Careful you don't get flagged by youtube for duplicate content. Um, I think what we're doing totally counts as transformative surely
Not like we're stealing
And we even promoted a guy earlier. So
You know to be honest, you know if you guys want to this this person's content, um, I forget the name of the channel
I think was it sarah z?
Uh, you can go check her out. We'll see if you want to like the other videos. I don't think it's a bad channel
Like obviously we're not going to promote someone like quinton when he's like outwardly lying about me and rags
So this person seems to be relatively, okay relatively on point you can you know, that's a that's a partial promotion
There you go. We're not always so mean is kind of what i'm trying to get at here
Constantly trying to account for the fact that we're awful
uh
Is the fallout video coming from rags how often to Bethesda?
Given how often patester is screwing up. Do you think you'll be finished before next christmas?
Like I said, give it a week. I think is probably where he's aiming to get it within
Uh wolf sounded like an edgy teenager when he talked about aquaman the movie was faithful to the comic and had the qualities of an epic
tale
Yeah, I don't care if it has the qualities of an epic tale. So does the room but you know
What?
Aquaman is I I would have to make like I could go full mauler on that movie
That movie awful
It's it's like hilarious. I mean, it's hilarious, but it's awful. Don't don't try and tell me that movie is objectively good
Yeah, and I haven't seen it but I for the plot summary I got from wolf. I was like, oh my goodness
I mean the the prologue alone is a fever dream, but oh all the times they rip off other movies
They've ripped off how to train your dragon to like a serious plot point from it
uh, the whole the whole mom dressing up as like a
monster and being in some secluded place and
That they recognize each other even though aquaman was three years old at the time
Uh, they ripped that off from how to train your dragon too
They ripped off direct quotes from other movies like and they just they switched a couple words out from
Braveheart and applied it to a fucking cgi crab person
I mean, it's funny. It's hilarious, but it's not good
I mean like wouldn't when the husband have pictures of her and that's how like he was yeah
But well, that's the thing that's that's the thing is she recognizes aquaman
Yeah, well she knows her own kid
But he was three years old at the time that she left like oh this this this this racially ambiguous
Guy that I raised to be like the next
King of atlanta. So I wonder what he looks like now
How's he racially ambiguous though? He's like, you know
Well, you know what he is but like in the movie you don't really know what he is
He a fish man
It's just he's just jason mamoa
Yeah, I don't I don't know his uh where he's from jason mamoa. Is he yeah, I think he's hawaiian in real life. Uh-huh
Um, yeah, I mean wolf everyone clearly wants you to make a video on it. So
I'll ever make a video again. I don't know
Uh, my issue with mauler's reviews is that after I watch them everyone else's reviews seem vapid and uninformed
Is that and then nothing is nothing to watch now? Oh, you guys there's plenty of good people out there
There's that wall. Yeah, you there's uh, there's er. I mean he only upload twice a year, but there's
There's there's rags. There's j long bone all the people on efap who've guessed it
I'm not biased against these people. Yeah, there's a while mcduchebag only he only reviews things like once in three years
There's loads of people there's just nobody who
Takes a million years to make stuff that
Like a million year movie review, you know, that's that's that's my that's my territory. No one's allowed to do that now
Hey molar I fixed your pillowcase. Oh, these are the weird comments. Well, did you know? Yeah, yeah, your breathing has a whistle to it in your sleep
It's so creepy
Uh, isn't that the same as saying catcher in the right convinced someone to kill the president? So that's the thing that happened, right?
I don't know someone read a book and decided to try and kill the president. I don't know but yes, um
assuming the book has no
connection it doesn't call for violence or anything and someone just goes I
Felt like doing that and therefore the book is responsible. It's like what?
I was with really fab starts. Happy new year a fab if criticisms kill then should pewdiepie be dead
I don't know what
Hey molar. Hey rags sub wolf and hello new person. Could you guys check out white lights critique on darksiders too?
It's three hours long. So watch your leisure. I just like your opinion
I'd need to play the game first and then i've never played any of the games. So
Me neither we'd be useless on that one
I'm afraid the everything is political argument is marxist garbage that they use to justify the state
Intervening in people's daily lives. It's like the justification for totalitarianism
Okay
Fair enough, uh every fairy are pussy efab that's that's racist to fairies
Um molar, I don't hate you. I made that clear on reddit as well supported you actually greater context and all that read my other posts
Oh, that's from rusty cheese knife
I mean the the thing is one of his comments has been read out loud. It's it's the um, the impression is very much
He's he's the guy who called me the saw god of like media and stuff. We're just like oh, he's the math guy
No, he's the one that responded to the math guy
Oh, and I don't I don't think I ever said you well, I may have said it like, uh,
Hypabolically like these guys pretty much hate me, but it's like some of the stuff you've been saying mate
like it's it's next level insanity and uh
I think the comments speak for themselves. I would suppose
It's kind of like if hitler like it made all of his speeches and about like how much he hates the jews
Then he was like, no, I love jews
It's just criticism what saying that like they're
I agree
He just starts throwing them in the gas chambers and they're like uh hitler what's what's going on here buddy
He's like look i'm just helping them
Like you guys are okay, right? And they're like no
No, they're all they're all choking on the ground like struggling for life and he's like see they're doing fine
They're fine. It's this is just legitimate criticism subjective
Dr. Troopers is a roman republican
Told on black panther sucks replayed i'm racist
That's a strange sentence. I think I understand it. Uh service guarantees rhino milk molar of a cat
That's that's actually a good meme
What's bad faith argumentation, I think we covered that earlier, but yeah, it's just the idea that I think rags said it best the
dishonest intentions
Is is probably the easiest way to quickly describe it. Hey fab wolf. Love you, man
I don't understand why you like those garbage king killer chronicle books fairy sex scenes are on the level of canto bite
in fairness
That was that okay. Well, I actually only just got through that part like a couple days ago
I'm still i'm almost finished with the second book
They're good. The main character is a horribly raging gary stu, but they're fun
I'll put it that I would have to make like a whole video about my thoughts in those books
Because there's a lot for watching a long video from you about fairy sex scenes. That's cool with me
In fairness at least they're not they're not half as creepy and disturbing as a george rr martin sex scene where he has to like
Like he doesn't want to say like dick so he has to be like his throbbing member and it's like
Like you read you read a song of ice and fire sex scenes and it's like this is the most uncomfortable shit i've ever had to read
Same with steven king both of those two need to never write sex scenes again. I don't know what's wrong with them
and
Why can't you just say cock
I don't know. I mean I can't wait. His characters would say it though, right?
But you wouldn't say it in no, no, no that that would be in description as they're doing it
Yeah, it's just kind of weird
I get like the idea of like it would be kind of
Weird and awkward to be like he's stuck as dick in her and it's like well, here's the thing
Don't
Don't just don't write sex scenes in books because they they hardly ever
Add anything to the book in the first place
But in steven king and george r martin books, they're just disturbing
Wolf wants his dick is what he's saying
No, no, I I want you to stop putting those scenes in books. They're just just stop doing it
Uh wolf your senior jared sculpture. Don't lie
Don't even oh, is that the same guy? I think so. It made the creepy things about you
Uh wolf as the mos and rags is the wk. Fuck. Yes. Oh, right. Yeah mouth of sorrow
Yeah, oh, okay. I was wondering what that was supposed to mean because I was like wolf is the moss
what
Excuse me. Most people don't even know mouth of sorrow because a lot of people haven't even seen the extended version
Oh, that's so weird
The sky high being fashion thing is about genetics and uses media without understanding the story behind it uses superman and star wars examples
I mean if everybody like really wants us to check out that video to see if they want
The thing is I haven't seen sky high in like a million years. I really can't remember anything about it
I probably remember it sucking but I mean that was when I was 10 when it came out
Uh, at least she's better than dark elf
Who I don't know it just says at least she's better than the dark elf is that referring to
Bismuth covering maybe or we're covering. Who's the dark elf though?
I love how you just pointed out how even if I was right by sense still doesn't make sense
Yet does not want to bring up raised god-like powers being more manifest destiny than a slave and farm boy saving the world
So yes, he's being biased
I feel like we needed the context for that one. Exactly. She likes quinton. Well opinion discarded idiot confused
Hey, maybe she doesn't know maybe she just doesn't know
Just jumped into the stream in time to hear wolf point out how you can see the outline of quinton's unibrow incoming quality content
I can tell yes
100% that's what doug said
Uh, did anyone notice what quinton looks like rocky dennis from mask?
At 324 wolf just admitted to being bear jesus
I don't know bear jesus. That's from the creepy comments person
What
Uh, i'm so confused
Uh hyperbole and disallude
Sorry hyperbole and delusion
Null hyperbole and delusional has turned criticism into analyzing somebody's mental state
It's less about what is said and who said it and why this is bad. I can't agree with that.
Applebend's rating her chat. What?
Appa's rating her chat. You can raid on youtube
I mean, oh shit the the chat's broken for me right now. So
I'm just seeing a bunch of people like typing
He's a friend we're okay with this we're not going to dmca you like um
Like who was that? Uh, I keep wanting to call him crispy baldy because I can't remember his actual name
Oh
Beds sends his regards
If you're still in the chat, please tell me remember
I think ben's probably moved on like who would want to see us reading out super chats for a whole hour
Like who would keep my eye out for ben?
Um, uh, merry late christmas you doggers and skullos. Did you ever catch?
Philip de franco's take on er it was something terrible on the lines of joking about
Yeah, I saw it. He uh, yeah, because he took the one comment the
Er said but i've always said I want to know the context of the comment. I don't I like er's take on it and
I don't know. I'm not a huge fan of defranco always kind of felt like
It doesn't really have anything to say
I mean fuck he's definitely lost a lot of integrity with the better help thing
Do you see colossus crazy covering that it was amusing
He uploaded
He he was on the baited channel. He just like
Rips into his response. It's good shit
Getting angry now equals wrong. Don't know why hmm gas mask yells at cloud
That's me. Never forget the the rape rap nostalgia chick. Oh, yeah, that's I only know about that thanks to metaka. I think
yeah
It's really like awkward because he actually found the video
And he like played it and it was it wasn't even her that was rapping. It was some weird like fedora dude and
It was honestly just kind of like
Weird not not creepy just awkward. Like why are you doing this buddy?
Just stop just stop
Uh ben on efap and the efap cast on dp internet gold. I mean it might happen the first right is when he was that was the offer for
Yeah, yeah, I might be around. I do not know for sure. Uh, what do y'all think of bid box?
Have you either of you wait you've seen it, right?
Yeah
It was okay
I don't think it's great. Um, I like the ideas and the execution was decent enough
Uh, but I don't know like there's a couple of things I have problems with but I kind of want to be spoiler free in case wolf
Hasn't seen it yet
I haven't seen it. Yeah that that and that ending i'm not gonna say what it is
It was predictable. Like I saw it coming like okay. I know I know it's coming
I know it's coming because you know, I can't say anything else but yeah, I
I knew it was coming a mile away
And it was like, okay
Happy ending whatever
Yeah, I I did like it though. And uh, I did the first thing I thought was is this the same as the happening?
When I was watching I was like, is this the same plot?
Yeah, it basically is it is they just added some extra stuff in it like
You see your worst fear
and you start uh
Rambling with some really stupid dialogue and then you die. Yeah, they didn't really explain much of that
Maybe I don't know if they needed it. Whatever. Yeah, anyway
Because again, I might make wolf watch it just for the funsies. So
Of course rags only remembers the bong i've seen all the ones that you have in your room ragsy
Creepy keeps with the creepy comments. Why does he know what's in our room?
He said, okay guys gonna go now watch the rest when it's archived. Love you mauler. Well, fuck you rags jay long
Uh, bye. See you guys
This is a strange strange super chats. I love how she has to say leftist
Yeah, a lot of people
That was kind of
Even ben was commented on it. It seems unnecessary. I get especially in reference to the rest of the video
I don't know
Someone I want to interrupt you from the super chat
Someone has commented this like six times already and I feel like i'm gonna forget if I don't address it
Uh wolf avatar the last airbender three is objectively the worst fight me
I haven't actually watched avatar since like it ended. I just have a bunch of really fond memories of it
But I do remember season two being my favorite with all the bossing say shit
I can't really make a argument for it
No, there you go because mauler won't ever watch it with me
We have to set that up. We gotta set up colonial marines. You gotta set up efaps near enough weekly
You're putting too much pressure on me wolf. I feel like you hate me
I slightly do but only mostly
Classic dunning kruger effect with h bomb and everyone else you can know one thing and have no clue about another
The problem is they need content
Fair enough, ooh precious crystal fox boy
This is important jay longbone. I hopped on after watching bunty
C star star star cron two
Yeah, yeah the bunty cuck chronicle. Oh, wait, you're not allowed to say cucking in super chat
I don't know
Well, it's yeah, it's one of those no-no words from the alt alt quote alt, right?
So I guess they're not yeah, I saw your videos on that they're amusing
I mean, I like a lot of videos. They're very music. Uh, is that the one?
You dropped out
Oh, I I was saying was that the one where bunty like outright said i'm glad i'm a cop
yeah, well that was the first one the second one was when he admitted to
Uh, like eating this girl's asshole out
That's one of the things where it's like that's
No
He was yeah, he was very very like yeah, I love it. I'll do it all time. This is like what yeah
And it was like there's this face that he made when he said I love eating pussy like it curled up
It's like this grinch face
I don't man you need to calm down
Bonti Bonti look this is why you don't talk about these things
Publicly I have not seen the house that jack built. Anyone know what that is?
Oh, yeah, it's that it's that uh, Lars von Trier movie the one people walked out of again. Oh
who
Lars von
Yeah, it's that
He's that director who makes a lot of like these days. He makes a lot of those like miso edgy movies
He's made such things as melancholia dogville breaking the waves dancer in the dark
Yeah
Oh, all right, what about like the one with Willem Dafoe, uh
And the fox have you seen like you're fantastic. Mr. Fox. No, wait, that doesn't
Uh, that's a good movie
The story follows jack a highly intelligent serial killer over the course of 12 years and depicts the murders that really develop his
inner madman
All right
Okay
Seems interesting
Uh wolf is lyle mcdouchebag wolf. Uh, how do you what do you say to these accusations?
Um
Well, I I was inspired by him. So you copied him. Sorry what?
Oh, definitely you outright copied his scripts word for word. What?
Yeah, exactly. That's what I did
Awesome job on the first tfa video more great christmas gift can't wait for the rest
Also, if you're anyone isn't subbed to jared do it now
Damn, I accidentally read that out promoting jared. I actually you know subbing to jared genesis
That's something you should definitely not do do it. Do it
They went to jared
Thoughts on vader fanfilm. I liked it. I have not seen it, but I don't even know I don't know
Is it i'm assuming it's a youtube video then
Unless yeah, I I think so
Um, I I genuinely i've heard of it, but I haven't watched it
What if I told you anyone can call it garbage
I'm assuming that's in reference to things x is garbage and here's why uh roses are red quinton gets mad bench appears a racist orange man bad
I think I think that's fair
All of those statements are true inauthentic nitpicking
is
less than neutrally malnutrition
Yes, neutrally malnutrition. This is just english salad nitpicking is by definition a derogatory term
um
Is it isn't it just
to nitpick is to
What is the aura? I you know, I haven't got the time to search for the actual like etymology of a word
What's the what's it called when you look for like the the origin of how a word was created?
Picking up the definition. Oh
No, because like is it etymology this is a word for like
When you look for where it came from it's like a
So I feel like someone in chat's gonna say. Oh, is it etymology? I could be right on that. I'm not sure
Etymology
The study of the origin of words. Oh, yeah, there you go
So, um, yeah, we'd have to go look at how that all started so is it research
Uh, you guys watch jar genesis old videos on christmas, please when christmas is gone
We missed it. He met next christmas
Maybe her video should be called criticism response theory. I agree
Ihg is negative, right? I mean, this is the thing. I was curious what she'd have as a position on that one
Wolf, he's only negative on uh
Things. Well, he's not negative on bad things really bad things
tlj
Wolf i'd love to see a review of watership down someone this is gonna be like a meme now, isn't it?
You can't say that wait. No, sorry. Well warship down review. Was that the first time someone suggested that that could be legitimate?
I i've
This is the first time i've heard this stream is the first time i've heard the name watership down and forever
I think we mentioned in another refab, but that's fair enough
Uh, she can't say that reporter or something. Oh, right. That's a reference. That should have in my opinion at the end of it
Uh t-pose to establish dominance on fake critics. Holy shit running up to the t-pose part
I was a bit behind but I can say that cinema sins is not universally negative in their videos because the only reason I saw
Snowpiercer was that their video on it was so positive despite the nitpicking. That's interesting
He
Like like they they knit well they cinema sin it but then they casually are like by the way, this film's amazing
I don't know i'd have to see the video be interested in if he's ever done that
There's a stain on your door near the light switch like jared. That is true
Rag said anal ever consider giving cosmonaut variety hour more of the fap treatment uses the excuse i'm a shill as a shield
to deflect bad criticism
I mean we did the um sam ramy videos
uh, sorry spiderman films one with
CJ I feel like that's that's good enough. But if he made some kind of
Other crazy, you know, uh, check out sin sin's channel. He's got a breakdown of um
cosmonaut's video on video game movie adaptions, so
uh
Give that a shot if you want to see more
Criticism slash risk, you know constructive feedback for him. We might cover him in the future
It would just depend on the video. I suppose
Yeah, that's interesting that some people actually really did see snowpiercer. Thanks to cinema sins
So uh because sin sense just said he's done it as well
Now I want to see it just because of the willy walker video
I mean I like snowpiercer is cool. It's crazy though pick the
Movie in general someone tried to burn head to door burn door equals efap east rag discovered
Hey more. Happy happy to finally be able to get here
Life to donate love your content. Keep rocking dude
Thank you. I I think that i'm not sure if i've missed a secret message in there
um
Happy to finally be able to get here life to donate get you live. That's it. I got it. I got it guys
My brain's still working burn how to talk. No, I did talk he spelt life when he meant live. I hate you learn how to speak americans
Wait, why did you sound russian when you said that?
I don't know. I want to learn how to speak american
I was not going for russian accents, but I guess I just slipped out take my money. Love the content looking forward to part two
Thank you very much. It's on the way
Snake being human breaks the logic of her killing snape to get his wand if she is a human
She gets the wand not her master. It was a big mistake
Oh
Yeah, so if the snake
They're saying because if you kill a wizard you get their wand right that's how it works
You get to control their wand or whatever ownership. That's how it works
I think that's with the elder wand
Well, I don't think it's still isn't that still relevant because snape killed dumbledore and voldemort wants to kill snape to get ownership of the
the elder wand
right
This is I can't talk on this because I can't remember my harry potter
I I don't remember. It's been like two years since I watched the films and I don't it's been
I mean I read the books back when I was in like the fifth grade when the last one came out
So you nerd, uh, someone wants you to say marcus's dad, but i'm assuming in a particular voice. Oh, oh, yes
Huh, maybe I should start off
Then they go to a laboratory for
No reason and it's marcus's dad's laboratory
I was always super interested in marcus's dad
It was and was super surprised when he became
There we go
Well, you know it cut out a little bit, but it's all good. I think we got the marcus's dad. Marcus's dad
For future star wars critiques i'd recommend sfs debris's trilogy hero's journey shadows journey and him its journey
They're fantastic for pts research fair enough
Satire is implied also. Holy crap. We made it to efap 20. So here's 20 bucks to you. You dangus. Thank you salad king and yes
Really is efap 20 what is wrong with us?
You want to give a a guess for that one?
Seriously, what the fuck's up with you with us as people? Uh, anyway best efap ever because we got to look at women
That's true. That's a reference. Don't get consumed
Wait, what?
She has venus flytrap hands moors vids every
Venus flytrap hands
Uh maulers vids every frame of prize mauler
Did you consider doing your last vid as two or did you keep as one just to troll people that say your videos are too long?
I kept them together because it it's
It's an introduction in in many ways more than just one taking the wheel building and connecting episodes
Uh six to seven is almost like what some people consider that meta information as opposed to talking about the film
But it's like, okay fine. I'll I can do that on the outside
And then the me assessing the plot leads straight into a nitpick criticism
And then I go to like only
I want to say like two minutes into the film and then I get to talk about why we talk about
Objectivity and why it's important. So the entire thing is the intro pretty much, but it still sets up what's to come
Which is basically all star wars if that makes sense as for fucking people saying it's too long
I mean if I was concerned about that, I don't think I would have made a 15 hour film review, you know, just
at this point it's
If that's what you want to call it. Uh
Venus flytrap hands. Does she start dissecting your
Does she start digesting your cock when giving a hand job?
I'll have to drink more rhino ghost milk for protection wonderful
At wolf highly recommend alpha alpaca packs korea's video it's up there with the yas video. I am
Also good start with the tfa vid mauler. Thank you
Alpha what huh? I'd recommend alpha alpaca packs korea's video. That's what it says
I have no idea who that is
Uh, she could milk implied flies with those hands lily is kind of insane
But their animation points were absolutely solid fair enough sugars admitted multiple times that the show doesn't have an overall plan
Also, most of the lore gets forgotten each season
Even the wiki documents this bad critique does not equal the subject is without sin
Fair enough. I beg of you efappers avenge me and my brothers. Oh, yeah, that's the uh, the implied fly
Yeah, hey guys the rags corpse you gave me is moving you sure that you killed him. The noise is coming from the basement say otherwise
All right, this is the creepy guy again
He came back. Yeah, he said yeah, jared won't eat it unless he's confirmed dead. You should shout out my friend lickin z dickens
Superchats are weird
A nitpicker who nitpicks people nitpicking media. She likes sums up this video
I suppose yeah, you could turn a couple of her criticisms on her. I think we did that
A couple times the flies of more door shall rise again
You should shout out. Oh, yeah, I read that one. Thank you all for introducing me to or in the blind forest
It's a marvel of a 2d platformer. The visuals and music are absolutely stunning. It's my favorite game
The lord of the rings was your favorite movie
It's a game. I know i'm fucking with you
Wait, i'm gonna be like tar wait what press one for molar even though i've never seen his face. Oh
Wait, but that was from just go to his older videos. He has his face on there
Yeah, we've got like a whole list of streams where I was yeah, he he's kind of fat
I don't know what you mean. That means doesn't that mean powerful isn't that what that means? No, it means you're overweight god damn it
Cudes tube. Why can't I see your membership link? Oh, well, wait, is it not in the description? I'll be awkward
Pretty sure I put it in there
Oh my god, I don't actually not put the link in there serious i've been telling people this whole time
fuck's sake
one moment
This is the link to the memberships thing if you guys want to use it that'll take you to the thing that says join
um
If oh changes are being saved. Come on. All right, so now it's
in there too
Wait, is that just user? Yeah gaming user. That's the weird thing. See apparently we all have a gaming page if we're youtubers
Do you guys know us? I didn't know this
You got to go on youtube gaming
Specifically, but I did that once and it was completely worthless. It's not something you want to do. I think it's just them trying to compete with um
Twitch yeah with yeah, and it's it's not good. Just you're better off just like doing a normal stream
So yeah use that link use join and then you too can share in the wonderful world of jara genesis
slash
happy ghost
Mauler's face reveal see since since posted thingy in there. Yeah, go to
Mauler's stream highlights 8.5
dash the mauler movie
God, that is a terrible title mauler. It was satire
Uh
Yeah, everyone say there's no link so that's my bad
Is this use this to buy sin sins of rhino to milk?
You think disney styles would be better off if they never brought ot characters back and just did their own thing?
I think it would be better if george lucas just didn't sell it
I mean you probably agree, right? It'd be better off. We just didn't do the thing at all
We just didn't have the movies like you just leave styles alone. Just let it die with dignity
Uh ewoks will be in episode nine. My source is trustworthy, but I can't reveal it in public
All right
Fair enough
Hey, just wanted to say I really appreciate you guys not only have I started to think about media
I consume more but wolf is also going to start reading again after I stopped for some time during high school
Well, there you go
Some positive influence we've got there
I just started my new job and got my first paycheck. I can now super chat and i've also bought hellblade
She isn't happy new year. Well careful with hellblade because according to wolf and rags
You should spend different amounts of time on it and we haven't got an answer on that yet
Look rags is wrong and since he's not here. I can destroy him with facts and logic
What was it exactly because i'm going to check the how long okay for hellblade?
well
Well, it took me between five and six hours to complete it
I think I don't remember if there's any difficulty slider or not
I think it was just like a normal or whatever if there is a difficulty, but I genuinely don't remember
Um rags was saying it's like an eight to ten hour game and I was like
How do you take eight to ten hours to beat that game because like half of it's like really easy puzzles
That's interesting. So the average time it takes for single players to beat hellblade is seven hours median average
So it's between however, it's about to say but completionist time takes eight and a half hours
They're wrong
I was going to say the average time party is nine hours total for completionist. So it is
It'll only take you that long. It'll only take you that long if you suck remember 343 said that
I was going to be like 15 hours, but it was only like four
so
Isn't that just your opinion though?
No, that's an objective fact, but isn't that just
Your objective opinion. No
I mean, we'll just resurrect that conversation whenever things are going too. Well
Uh
Also, quick question. What was your most disappointing game of 2018? Mine was cola cthulu due to how lackluster and limb dick it was
I that would be one of my suggestions. Honestly where you will
Uh, man, there's there's quite a few. Uh far cry five is one
Because it was just not good. I want to I need to like look up a list of like what games actually came out this year
games of 2018
Uh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. Yeah far cry five black ops four is shit
Rise of the oh shadow of the tomb raider. Um, that one was really disappointing because I even liked the first two games
But the third game is awful
I'd say that was probably my least favorite dark souls remastered worthless
Uh
Yeah
All right, and lauren have you played games that suck this year?
No, i'm so poor. I can't even play the new shit god damn it. We've got no sources for our
Podcast. Yeah, and I don't really play enough games to be able to say this year
But I did play cola cthulu and I was kind of interested in it and it was awful
So yeah, I was really hyped for it and then molar told me it sucked and
Hmm
It's so bad. I was tempted to make a video
But I was like nope tfa has to go first. Uh, you guys ever watch that wisecrack youtube channel? They put out a philosophy on
Jr. Tolkien video today. Anyway, thanks. Keep me entertained at work. Oh good lord. Nice crack annoy me
And I have a feeling that they probably fucked that up if it's about
Is it going to be something that i'm going to hate to the core of my soul and want to hurt somebody if I watch it
Wise crack
Have you checked out robot head star wars critiques would love to see him on your next tlj
We did play his video actually at the beginning of this efap. We promoted him
Go check out his videos
Uh on star wars, I guess. Yes, we did. I slaughtered like animals in my opinion getting worse
What is what you're getting with? Sorry?
That's the that's the title of this talking video
Which is what sorry I missed the beginning part
Is
It's the philosophy of jr. Tolkien why things keep getting worse
I don't know if this is something that he said or I don't know. It's overwhelmingly well-liked, but we know how that goes
Oh and for clarification call of Cthulhu is the one that came out this year. That was like an fps horror game though
I can't remember who was made by but um
It wasn't a pixel rpg. We players could do it. No something else
Um, do you know the channel film joy? I think we've film joy has been requested for the tlj video they made
But other than that, I don't really know
Do a video from lacking saint eric taxon's buddy
Uh, who's I don't think I've ever heard of racking saint i'm curious
Yeah, i've never heard of this person
Oh wait, they're the one that made the sky high video
that's
Interesting connection
If they are buddies, maybe they're the two they're gonna make the video on me. Who knows?
You've literally covered film joy on efap. Wait, have we?
Let me have a look
Oh, it's movies with mikey. Oh, that's movies with mikey
Oh, yeah, it is
Okay, I didn't realize he was called film joy. I actually thought that the channel name was movies with mikey
Gotcha. Yeah. Okay. Well, we did we covered him in the
Second efap maybe third. I can't remember but um senses of course points out. It's the guy who wrote alien
It needs to be said every time
Um, thanks for complimenting my name. You had another great efap. I'm amused
You didn't catch my jared reference in the first but anyway guys, I hope you all have a great evening
Have it on have this gal on have this gal on. Oh the one we're covering I guess
And yeah, um if you say but anyway guys, we all don't even need to recognize that that's
the strong jared meme
How would a dick fit in a fairy?
That's that was well, that was worth super chatting
She's not a literal fairy
It's just someone that doesn't die
And they describe it as a fairy in the book. Oh
You're a big fairy
Yeah
Well, if you ever consider doing a let's play of war in the blind forest or will of the wisps when it releases
I mean i've considered it but I I also just don't even know if i'm gonna be making youtube videos anymore
So yeah
There's no way you're not going to alert the whole chat by saying that
If people look at it start saying loads of things now
All my super chats made sense of the time I said them, of course, of course 100
Link to the party hope everyone has a good 2018. Thank you wolf might
Wolf mightn't have the word dick in westeros
Oh god, don't bring that up again. I don't want it to think I don't need any more flashbacks from
Um, um, fuck what was the name of the fifth book? Uh, damn it
Mueller help me out here the fifth book winds of winter
No, that that's a six, but that's the one he refuses to write
Okay, hold on beast for crows
No, that's the worst one a dance of dragons. That's our no feast of crows is the one where sirsi has that weird
uncomfortable lesbian scene
That's your opinion
Well those two books in particular those two books in particular. They're just like
Stop making these sex scenes
Um
I demand a counter raid on apoban's channel
I mean if he's if he's live and there's a way to do that in twitch you could type like slash host and then you could
raid but
I've never done it on youtube. I have no idea where it works
Hey wolf prior your prior hints at an upcoming video on the gray made me watch it and I loved it
So, thank you and happy new year everybody. Oh, yep. The gray is a great movie
uh
Here's money to buy alpha and omega 5 for wolf to review because physics physics physics
Alpha and omega 5 was that
Oh god
I'm getting vietnam flashbacks
There's live have somebody i've got two super chats left i'm so excited neatly done it
Three now, okay. I've been creepy to you guys enough today. I love efab
I usually don't get to watch these live. In fact, i've watched you guys at 1.5 speeds so much that you guys sound drunk at normal speed
Fair enough I need a news
That's the creepy guy, right? That's the creepy guy
His first time being on here live
I'm just gonna creep the shit out of him you cut out of the strangest times
First time on you're not
Yeah, he was just thinking to himself oh man, it's my first time what do I say
Creep. Oh, I did it again, didn't it?
Oh, I like I like saw my profile picture not lighting up green. I was like
I'll say it against them other time. Sorry. Um, I need a new steam named disintegrated wolf either
goat nyquil yeehaw or rhino milk with women
What even
It should be but anyways guys
Yeah, that should definitely be it. That's the correct. So then when you're playing like call of duty or something
It'll be like but anyways guys killed you
Uh, I love gtfa vid more looking forward to the next one. Thank you. Uh
2018 has been a rough year for me, but discovering you guys has been a highlight. Thank you. We're glad to bring
Entertainment slash happiness to anyone and everybody we we do actually like to not be mean all the time as people might portray us
Here's money spank me. That's the last the last one
We did it people in the chatter like keep spamming him so he can't leave
So, um, I mean, you know, there's we got this there's there's one more meme video to see and that's what we're gonna do now
Okay, even if there's a super chat we're moving on. Oh, man. I need to I clicked out of the watch together
Hold on you awful human
Oh god, I didn't want to hear that again
Put that there
Take the thing off do this and here we go
Carry these fucks with the kids
And yes, oh god, this one everybody welcome to oh fuck once again every frame of pull is
the fap
So I realize I already lost a lot of
Don't worry we're gonna stay
That's a great response
A review is nothing more than a description of an experience
No, it's not
It is my opinion that two plus two equals four
All right, that is not how you make the possessive form of my name my name is not ragged
My name is have you fuck up a four letter name ragged
You
Yeah, you get to just wanted to make sure that you got to spend a long time looking at quitting's incredibly punchable face
That your anger could bubble and rise throughout
I'm gonna have to throw pools every once in a while just in case for copyright shit
I don't I know that this is not an argument
But why is it that every single person that defends the last jedi looks like this?
It's just like some squany fucking middle-aged man
Oh god this part
I
The problem is that his thesis statement is essentially that other people are not allowed to disagree with his opinion
bullshit
Yeah, I don't think rex said that but go ahead show me a clip
Show me a clip quinton because his opinion is on a higher playing field than yeah, this is why clinton
This is this is why clinton is a fucking scumbag. Yeah, he's a piece of shit
Yeah, quinton's a piece of shit. This is the kind of I love the idea of patrick will try to help quincy
We could defeat efap
So cheesy thing that the piece of shit does people like quinton. They don't seek to understand
It's not a they don't value the pursuit of knowledge in the same
To just to say that
I think they'd use the elevator music that I had
Someone said capitalism hoe and his name is capitalism hoe
Well, thank you
Quinton can come in with his big ass brain and it's compensation in his yellow teeth
I don't have the information necessary to determine whether or not a proposition is possible
Quinton doesn't have the capacity for a lot of
He doesn't have the capacity for a lot of things as we've already seen
Just add that to the pile I fucking hate trump fuck you quinton
I
Love that it picked up the mario death music
Yeah
Can quote me on this because I stand by it
110 the last jedi is an objectively poorly made film
But you can still enjoy them whatever theme you want to pull from the movie have at it man if you enjoy it
Then you can enjoy it
I'm not sure what's happening in the metaphorical place here. It's like is patrick defeating efap. You're gonna cut efap in half
Oh
My god this is a film about space wizards intended for children
Okay
And if I remember correctly this doesn't actually this doesn't stop when it goes to something uh
Fantastic
My name is jared genesis
And I am the best
With my mother at walmart
We shot on the clearest rack
My room is very messy because women do not stay here
Man this jared two is really nice this new track by the penguin is lit
Whoa, what's this one?
Dishonored wolf versus rack. Oh, I did. I mean, you know, we'll we'll throw it on potential for next
I was just gonna say fucking hell. Like I just want to watch it. I ain't gonna watch it on my own then let's
So
in conclusion
What was that?
Gotti fap is actually insane. Like you just get to the point where you realize this like what the hell is this podcast? Um
So god all the people that don't know who jared is see that and be like what?
What's happening?
I mean if you just went and came here for the super chats and then that video
What the hell would you say this podcast even is? I don't know. I don't know how you do that. But um
What the purpose today was to cover the bad media criticism video
Which I think we managed to pull off pretty well
And it was fun commenting on all these crazy things with with our special guest today, which was jay longbone. Would you like to try?
And sell your channel to to the current audience see see if you can get them to say hey
You should come over and check your channel out. Oh, well, you know, my channel is a just a cavalcade of
Different things. I criticize a lot of shit like it doesn't matter what it is. As long as it um
As long as it's within my within the acceptable ranges of fringe and I will react to it like movies
Just regular youtube videos
movie trailers anything
And you know, I think I do a pretty decent job of that
Do say so myself. Um
I mean and a good intro would probably be the quinton one just because they're aware of quinton stupidity. So they'll be like, oh, yeah
Yeah, yeah, I did. Yeah, I did a video on quinton and uh, it did
I it kind of well, I don't want to say it blew up it blew up for me
But yeah, I think it came out pretty well and you guys might want to check that out
He's a he's a he's a cringe mind
He keeps doing more things as well
Like you you cover him and you think like this is this is where he'll square off and be normal. It's like no
He's still going
He can't help it. He just can't help it. We have not seen the last of this motherfucker. Oh, yes
Um, he just won't go away. I just realized I should check for memes in case we've got any more
um
This this one there's one wolf depending on how much you appreciate i'll put it on the screen
Well, hold on
Well, that's enough for me to constitute putting it on I suppose
That's just like a little off-center hell
Um, but yeah, I think that about wraps it up if anybody wants to uh say oh wait, i'll just get that one
I have to believe there are lost jedi fans who realize patrick and quinton are really fucking stupid
But every day it gets harder and harder to believe yard is a beautiful fallen angel. We must nurture and cherish from
Fallen angel
Oh, you mean like he's fallen from anywhere. I mean he's fallen from the chromosome tree, but he's come from somewhere better than here
There's no way
That wasn't created in our universe. It's not possible came from a different dimension. But um
Yeah, thank you everybody for being extremely kind with donations and supportive of of not only the the efap channel
The webin channel as well. This will be archived on the moolah channel
I don't know how many of you are aware of its existence or not. But um, yeah, it's just it's just moolah
It's easy to find it's in the description as well. But um, you know wolf lauren. Would you like to say anything either of you?
Fly lives matter of course
And uh, quinton's lips still look like an elk vagina
It's good that that's where you went first because it's just like you know
What that means you probably have a lot of information on that side of biology and we'll know to we'll know to ask you questions
About that if it ever comes up
Yeah, like I don't know what an actual elk vagina looks like but i'm pretty sure it looks like his mouth
It's fair. Um, but yeah, thank you all for for watching
I'm releasing an audio commentary on christmas eve rags's videos. Hopefully going to be out within I guess the week and uh,
efap will come back in 2019 now
Of course a late. Merry christmas and an early happy new year folks. True to pip and cheerio
Pip pip diddly do
That was gay wolf
