This time they don't deserve it
The intro thing was pretty cool actually that it worked a lot better than I expected it to
Alright the next fucking eight hours here we go up the street actually healthy first
I love that song is great. Oh
Oh
You can't even like bow sing it because it's too good. You just humiliate the song. I don't go that high
Or at least that that beautiful. It's how I describe it. It's such a good voice. It's just beautiful
Tis gorgeous
Tis indeed just right so that 11 or so minutes that I was away chat
All I did was push all of the memes into the meme section of my discord and set up all the next memes
That's all I could do
Apparently it takes 10 minutes to do that. Oh my gusting. I should sue
But yes, welcome back all we now have
Jay Longbone has jumped in and critical drinker was hero. Wait, did you my mind's melting? Were you here before or after the stream?
Yeah
This wasn't supposed to happen to like midway through the third order
Yeah, I know braids melting too early. Oh, there's some memes. I gotta collect from Twitter as well
Damn it. Yeah, I can actually do that while we just we calibrate, you know, we need a second to be like, whoa
I wonder how long till fring he's gonna wake up again
Bye drink
Didn't want you here anyway
Yeah, my connections had a few issues and it's kind of slowing down so
Scottish is fine
What we expect from that is more police actually kind of would prefer to live there just because of the weather
Yeah
Yeah, I prefer cold
Ah, wow
If you like cold and rain then this is the place to be I was gonna say what's the hottest it gets there like ever
Uh, I lost you there for a second say that again, uh, how what's like the hottest it gets there in scotland?
Uh, sometimes people have been known to take the jumpers off. Whoa, like when it's proper hot
Let's not get crazy now. No, no, I mean to be fair
It's kind of the opposite in scotland
Like if if there's a break in the cloud for like five minutes, then every man within 50 miles will like whip his top off
You know
They could but I don't know if you'd want to see it scottish women
They're a little little barely
a little thick
A little uh highland magic
Yeah, that's pretty much he's working on it. It's coming along
Adrian's wall was built to keep out the scottish titties
So this is uh, this is part two of the 24-hour stream, right? Yes, we're already out of three, right?
What out of three technically? Yes, I think that means that this is the middle this is yes
Of the three quarters. This is the best bit. This is my favorite. I was gonna say so this will be the longest part, right?
This is my favorite part
My favorite part this is my favorite part
Right
I too enjoy the things
Wow, how do you sound so enthusiastic rags because i'm saving my
Enthusitisms for the later. Also, his name is rags. Can you please?
Right. Jesus. Sorry rags is the
Chrono of it
Yes
Part one is unlisted, right? I have to set that twice fucking new version of youtube's tisms
All right, it'll be good
I cry if not
Should it be good?
Yes, it should it be good or should it just be?
Whatever it be
Sometimes you shouldn't force things to be certain ways
Either way enjoy, um, or we got is everybody into the into the watch to gore there?
Oh, yeah
Yeah, excellent. Wait, there's six of us and only five in it. What's going on? Who's who's holding out?
Well, i'm in it. I think so. I refreshed the watch together. I'm seeing brown
video
so
Now there's four of us you watch. Well, if no, i'm still five. No, it's five
We have
Tbpau we have ax kcu. There we go. We have pht tree and we have
I'm in i'm in and also there we go
Who's the only person who bothered to put a profile image for his watch together which makes sense because of how often we use it
So from left to right we have on this wonderful beginning of the stream
theo south pole j long bone rag is the critical drinker and mules lee
Rags you've been drinking too much way way too much. I'm i'm reading the names off the list
You
I baited and switched to you guys. We are gonna do the video that I mentioned
But there's a different one. I want to cover first because it's just I just love the premise of this video
So this is from a good good old good old person. We've covered on ufap before called hello. Greedo
You guys remember that guy? What I do. He wears the helmet. He really wears the he doesn't wear the last jedi
Stop it. Oh, no
Jedi when was this video? This was a while ago. Um
But I love the fucking title of it. It's so great. The uh, everything you think is important is not important
That is oh
Well, the last video that we covered was like this thing isn't as good as you think these videos think they can see into my mind
Hole. Hey, man, they know better than you. Okay, is that his opinion?
Why do I have to re-edit my coverage of this thing again? What the fuck's going on?
You have to uncover it every goddamn time
change streams
Suddenly have to change everything
Jeremy from geeks and gamers is in the chat. He said hello. Greedo is the ultimate beta male. I agree. Jeremy
Do you want to jump in my good man?
Jeremy. Come on in, Jeremy. Gero me
Germer
Germerman. Please come in. Jeremy
Jeremiah
Jeremy. Jeremy we're covering not only someone you're not a fan of to any degree
But it's stairwise as well
Don't you wait. Come on. Watch a video with us. Why are we talking about
Styrofoam
You're about to come out and the second episodes kind of shit very quick
I've not even drank much at all. But critical drinkers just constantly you see that in the picture. It's just a stream
He doesn't have blood he has
Oh, yeah blocked my I have to stay away from like naked flames because uh, i'll just go out like a torch man
I could use a naked flame right now
I'd rather a clear high real hottie prefer a clothed flame
Tis true
Um, but yeah, just let me know in chat jeremy when when you want to jump in and I will oh gosh
Somebody's speeding late at night
Terrible. Really? Well, did you hear that? Where do they have to be? I don't know
Yeah
That's probably what it is. Actually, can they just stream it on their phone though? Do they need to speed?
Do they have a need for speed?
Do they have a desire for my best video games?
Um
But yeah, okay, so I fixed the screen. Yeah, so this is
I guess this was at the height of the tlj conversations that were happening and
Last week I wanted to bring out a video
Called everything you think is important is not important. So
We're about to get our minds blown. Is everybody ready for this?
Uh, it's a gentle prediction. Uh
Plot consistency character is making sense. Don't they're not important. Oh, apparently jeremy can join right now character motivation
All right, um, I guess
Feels bad, man
Yo, you okay with uh jumping out you'll next in the queue exit
Eight minutes into the second episode
Don't worry that means you'll be on the thumbnail I was gonna say you'll be you'll be back
because we
Got intended anytime you need filler. I can um jump back in. Well, it's just it's not even filler. It's just the queue
Fair enough. Don't worry. You'll replace somebody as well. I'll make sure of it
Like j i'll be like whatever you say. It's like it's just me and j and then you come in i'm like jaley
It's like oh man
Get out jay. Anyway, yeah, uh, thanks for having me on uh, see you around I guess see you around sir
Goodbye do not get shot
Why would he would you assume that?
I wouldn't
Why does he need that recommendation? Is it not just something that's standard?
You say that because giving a shot can kill you or cause otherwise serious bodily harm to you
What if they shoot you in in what if they shoot you with two nine millimeter shots in the chest rags
That doesn't do anything. Oh, that's never lethal. No one's ever died from that
in the life
Christina taylor says finally with the ogan the other guests can get a word in
And here he comes d-day cobra
Wait, what's the uh framed as the loquacious one? I don't know. I'd have to check the law. I think so that doesn't sound right
Guy mauler should leave. Yeah, I reckon we should get him. Yeah, how come you don't have to leave? I don't know some kind of weird rule
Rules are meant to be broken. This is true laws are the ones that aren't meant to be broken
Well, what if I told you that everything you think some
You cut out, but I know in spirit what you were trying to say god damn it
It was that was a quality comment, I know
Jeremy, how do you do?
Kicked if anybody I wanted to kick mauler
That was my goal to come on efap and have mauler have to be kicked and instead you kicked, you know, you monster
So toxic hi everyone, thank you for allowing me to join i'll only be here for a little while
But definitely i'll pop back in later for the long run if that's okay. Jeremy nice to finally meet you
Thank you. Nice to meet you too. I appreciate you guys having me on
Anytime we can talk about hello grito the person that's the most passive aggressive beta male i've ever seen
I'm happy to do that. I have the unfortunateness of following on twitter and every day. It's something about how
People aren't critical of the ot like they are of the sequels
It's like wasn't this the guy who shredded the prequels over and over again over and over non-stopping
He's he's so he he keeps making these passive aggressive videos
He won't name anyone and then when you i've called him out several times and he plays the mister
Oh, i'm just having fun
Yeah, that's just not so annoying. Well, i'm just trying to open up a conversation
Uh by not naming people i'll conversate with or going on to people who want to have conversations with me
He was he was invited to evab
Fucking ages ago. I'm not even kidding and um, I believe it was like a soft
Yes, and then it went to like a soft no and then just no
And I got that's a shame for someone who wants to just start discussions
It just seems like it just seems a little odd to me that somebody who says that would be
Theoretically so open to a discussion, but well, I mean sniping from twitter is just so much fun
Because you don't actually have to directly engage with people who disagree with you
You can just you know
Make a bitchy little comment at them in public for your thousands of followers to just you know pair it with uh
without a second thought
Well, uh gerry are you able to see the link to watch together in the group?
Uh, yes
Just jump on that
It's only a four minute video as well
But I imagine it's going to take us a while because he's probably going to say a bunch of stupid shit
I bet much like him. It is very dense
That is a true. Um, so is it on zero for you? Jeremy?
It can be hang on just it's on five seconds. Now. It's on zero
All right, uh adjust your volume as you prefer and because I think you've used it for I Jeremy
But yeah, everybody has access to the pause button
It works as if it's all our belongs to all of us at the same time, but volumes are on
Star wars the last jedi does not find important what you may find important. That is correct. I do
I agree with that statement. We are in total agreement
Never before have two minds been so inextricably connected
He's on point with this one. I like him already
It's off to a good start does a good job subverting viewer expectations
Okay, I wish that people and I know this sounds biased as fuck
I wish people who defend the last jedi weren't allowed to say subverted expectations. I wish it was stricken
Actually, fuck it for everybody. You're not allowed to use those two words anymore when discussing the last jedi. I have to say something else
Did a thing that no one saw
Right into the the npc meme
It just feels like that's the update that they got and they were required
By by their update to say those words when they defend it. They just walk right into the meme
There's something else that
Ah, the assassin longs to feel my axe
I find proper character development to be important, which is why i'm not a huge
Ray going from hating kylo rent who like being in love with him in one scene
We didn't see it coming
Yeah, that's good. I didn't see it coming. Also, I wouldn't like the comics viewer expectations challenging what fans find important that lightsaber
Yeah, luke doesn't care. He just throws it behind his head race parents. I wish I traded last jedi for drinking money
I'm famously known for never having a drink of alcohol
I might I might uh, I might change that if I could erase the last jedi from my mind and just take
Quite the deal
I just I like that he's by the way
He's like he tried to explain away like blinking fuck-ups in the movie as it doesn't consider them important
I'm just waiting for it to be like logic not important to the last jedi. Okay logic consistency development
It's not important. Like yeah, I get to see I I agree that the film doesn't think that
Behind his head race parents. They're nobody they traded her for drinking money snoke cut in half like butter
He's just there to show kylo rent struggle
Did I have a problem with the idea that snoke can die that was never really the problem
No, if snoke I snoke needed to be immortal for me to feel any kind of investment in the last jedi
Because if there's anything I love it's immortal antagonists the amount of fucking times we've had to explain about snoke that
I don't want to have to care about him, but you made him super important in your universe. So now I need to know shit about him
Like
The film like hitler the film itself writes him to be this shitty one-dimensional like villain man dressed in gold and it's like see
That's that's what he is. It's like the film made him that
Didn't have to make him that I didn't vote on it
I feel like they could have just made him part of kylo ren's backstory and not even
Had much of him in the force awakens
Like you just have kylo killing him be a part of his backstory before kylo's even introduced
Yeah, and that that could have worked. I think it would have worked better than if you had kylo as as an actual
Workable antagonist who's genuinely powerful in medicine, but then all characters all of that
Hey, you just think that's important killing off your main like like the big bad guy that's being set up for your trilogy
literally halfway through the trilogy
Halfway through the through the second film. I just like incredible. Yeah
The idea as well
In an alternate universe we'd be arguing about how hokey it is that they did like
You know scenes where when they're setting up snoke
It's like the idea is that he came in once palpatine was gone and they like
Redo some scenes from the ot to try and show him in them like a
Some kind of lurkin in a corner. Yeah. Yeah, like like a shitty minion of palpatine and we'd be talking about like oh
That's so retconnie, but you know, how good is it? How much does it fit? It was like no
He's just we don't even know that we don't even know what his connection to palpatine was
Or why he's just he's a guy
He's just a guy like first order. I don't know
Oh, shout out to the chat
It's nice to see that the uh, the high council meme has found its way to the efax chat. I noticed that
Yeah, I watched you guys responding to major lee. How fun was that?
I was I was actually a blast. Um
It's really amazing when you really sit there and listen to him how stupid he really is. Uh,
Did you see do you see him debate b rags and veto?
I haven't seen that way. Anna speaks
Anna speaks very very highly of how you you guys simply destroyed him. Um, but I need to watch that one arguably sad
Jeremy you're gonna need like an bottle of aspirin handy because it is
literally headache inducing
With me the guy he he goes and does a review of the fandom minutes and and proceeds to not include
Anyone in the fandom minutes except for me and you know a couple people that's it everybody else that he included had nothing to do
with the fandom minutes like who
Uh, he brought
Robert storms into it which is
Robert
Yeah, I remember some of the people you're showing i've never even heard of them. Uh, oh is he related to film?
Film bro. Did you guys see did you guys see what film gob did to to robert storms on on the high council?
Well, I saw you guys show it. Um, that is a weird man
No, not gonna lie. It's a weird man
If you're curious about robert storms at some point during this this
efap
Marathon, you should watch uh film gobs video on the assassination of robert storms by the coward robert storms. It is fantastic
Um, but so use film he used robert storms
He used this guy who does this jogging vlog where he jogs and complains about people
And he has nothing to do with the fandom minutes
Nerds who i've actually gotten in fights with uh, I don't like denim nerds. He can go fuck himself. Um, so
Um, and there was about three or four other smaller
Creators i've never heard of and and they were claiming they were part of the fandom menace and none of them are
It was really weird. It was really strange that he just
Included a bunch of people that oh grace randolph. He said grace randolph was in the fandom minutes. Yeah
I guess
Out of this selection
Some of them are like straight up enemies some of them are super fucking weird and then some of them are like people you guys
Are okay with but don't really associate with that much right like that. It was such a weird selection
Yeah, it really was instead of going to the obvious ones like there are obvious like figureheads. It's like why wouldn't
Hello
Yeah, he made me the the the target of his entire video
But yeah with ethan
He only he only linked ethan van skyber through me mentioning ethan by first name basis
Like ethan's actually the most famous person in the famous he highlights that as a I love that bit
He's like, uh, it's so weird. He just like assuming we know him and then uh, ethan's like he's my friend
So that we could we could refer to each other my eyes like whoa
It was strange go ahead i'm sorry go ahead germany
It was just uh, it was funny that he showed how uneducated in the whole topic. He was with his video
He made a better case for the fandom menace than anything with his video
That was a really good. Yeah. Yeah, we cover we found that with with covering majorly as well. They had the opposite effect as intended
You know what? I found really funny is the the dude that actually
Coined the toxic group thing commented on majorly's video saying that uh video on the fandom. This was better than his own
Really
Listen, I that doesn't surprise me given the uh ability that many of these people have to judge the qualities of things
This is true, this is true now also he included mike zero so my end chat reminded me
So he played mike zero a lot during this
Mike zero
Mike zero is this star wars youtuber that literally uploads the same video three times a day and it's usually the same
Is that where he's got basically nothing to talk about but he manages to make like 10 minute videos about it
Yes, and he's got a dartboard behind him and he says the same he's like a robot and we make fun of him
On the high council all the time, which i'll do I have nothing to respect for mike
If you can if you can get views and make money by making the same exact video over and over again
Go for it. I hate on you
But um, we make fun of him and majorly made it out like uh, mike zero is this integral part of the fandom menace i'm like
With this human being he's very strange. We just make fun of you should have majorly come onto the high council
That'll be fucking classic
Do it
A lot of but also have an eject button though
Just make sure you have control over that. I mean
Like it was a nightmare. I'm gonna listen back to your efap
Go what what efap is that rags? What would you guess?
25 25. Okay
Yeah, i'll check that out. There you go. Um, yeah, anyway, sorry. Hello. Greedo majorly is more annoying than you
He's just there to show kylo ren struggle admiral akbar
Dead luke is some neo superman jedi
So what you're gonna do is just tell us what happens in the film and then say the film didn't care that you cared about it
Okay
Good job
Nailed it. Hey, nope. He's a broken man by subverting audience expectations or what we assume through guesswork needs to happen
We actually get a far more would make sense not needs to happen needs to happen. What would make logical sense
Maybe that's what he's referring to and he's like love remember. Fuck. Was it maybe but do you remember?
Rags all the way back at efap. I want to say three. It could be two where patrick williams highlights logic as the enemy and we were like, okay
Like you might want to roll it back a bit if you've made logic the enemy. It's not it's not a good start
People expect logic
People expect logic and a good crafted constructed story
And that's just not important. What's important is some bullshit theme that I made up two months ago
So what's coming up on the bottom left there?
Interesting experience what the auto like stalls then subscribe?
I don't know if i'd recommend that
It's a clear choice
Oh, yeah, don't ever do that. Don't tell people to fucking like your video before you
Showing any quality do worse than that. He's telling you to subscribe. He wants you to subscribe
He's like we've listened to him for 35 seconds
And all he said is things happen to the movie and the film considered them not important. It's like, all right
Here's a quick summary guys. I like my fucking video so I can buy more of these stupid fucking masks
But he's lame-ass fucking video
What you do?
Uh, this apparently this is the origin so he used to wear a greeno mask
It got worn and so he ended up going with a stormtrooper. It's like
Your name is still hello greeno
Is that there is is that really what he used to do?
Yeah, because I saw someone on twitter say like why don't you wear a greeno mask if you called hello green?
He's like I used to but it got like worn and fucked up and so he goes with the storm
That's a shame. They didn't make more than one. Can it just go another one or something? No. No, that's the only one
Should it be called hellos? Hello fin. Hello stormtroopers something like that. I don't know
Stormtrooper my lord considers important what they consider the unshakable foundation the way things have to be the way things have to go
The last jedi turns on its head and I love it for that
Love it for I've never in control what it really does. It's pre-determined to do things regardless of what nobody is
I don't think anyone is saying that you know
What we expected to happen had to happen like that. That's the only way it could have played out but
You have to have something vaguely logical happen when someone says
Snoke needs a history. Is that like oh, so there's only one thing that can happen
It's like no, no, that's like a still a billion things. Is there still so much room to do whatever you want to do like, um
Who will raise parents? It's like oh just one thing we can do it's like no, no again
There are so many different things you could do as a writer for that
But for some reason they see it as restrictive. I guess the things make sense
We've had this before
I just love watching movies that basically
Give me the finger for feeling invested in it and wanting to know more about their world. I love it
I love it. I love that movies don't find that kind of stuff important
At or your preconceived notions of things to come don't count what you think is important
Is not important martin zika preconceived. What what if someone was going to have preconceived notions about what should happen
What would those things maybe be based on?
The narrative progression
In the previous films
I like the idea that uh, you know
Episode six is just a simpsons episode and you're like I thought luke was going to be in it because of the parts. Ah
Yeah, see preconceived notions luke skywalker is going to be in it. What is that nonsense? That's what that is
Spoiler the mental gymnastics the mental gymnastics at tlj uh defenders go through is it's actually pretty damn
It's more entertaining than the movie. That's for damn. You know, and efap is is totally about this in a way
But uh because people criticize us for covering star wars too much
We cover fucking everything star wars just pops up a lot because it's extremely into the culture. Yes, but uh,
Notice that like the star wars coverage gets more views than pretty much everything else
So you really are just I guess I kind of my channel was bumped up by star wars
It makes a lot of sense, but it's not in the title. So people can't know unless they click anyway, but uh, the
the
So like covering it in a way that's like um
This is all expected or this is all something we all we all want uh as a sort of desperate
Defense of the film is another revealing element because we we've talked about throughout efap
TLJ splits not only like the fan base of star wars, but like video essayists on youtube got split into down like into
their abilities to break down
Story structure and stuff or like to be honest about what is in a film's content?
You found a lot of reviewers that were just unwilling
To criticize it despite the fact that they've got a long history of doing it for other films that suffer the same flaws
Like obviously I hate everything just right a bunch of others that just failed to point out
All of the blatant horrific errors and it like it like changed video essays on youtube because because of what movie
But it makes sense. It was a star wars movie because it's huge
Yeah
Because the same defenses that they use to the last jedi from criticism could still
Be applied to any absolutely terrible film that's been released in recent memory amazing spider-man 2 suicide squad batman v superman
And yet they they're totally happy with ripping all those films apart and you know, they're right to do that
But the last jedi it's something special. It's their it's their golden cow
Yeah, and I think it explores. Uh, well, this is probably what helped boost the whole um, the difference between liking a thing
And talking about the construction of a thing
or uh
And the idea that a lot of people I think were operating under the idea that
So like half the audience are like that's the same thing and the other half the audience
Like it's not the same thing
And a lot of content creators could sort of surf both of those audiences at the same time by being like
I like it because of these consistent things. I dislike it because of these inconsistent things that come to conclusions
But when you're like clj is good you're like, whoo
Hang on
Hang on a minute
And I think it makes sense that it happened with this in game of thrones
Those are the two huge ones. No, nobody was defending game of thrones though, right?
Does anyone know anybody who defended game of thrones?
One of the uh, game of thrones subreddits like had a bunch of people funding it and if you look up I think uh,
Asoiaf jerk, uh, they're kind of like the movie circle jerk version of uh, game of thrones community
Oh, it's like a refuge for people who enjoyed season eight
Yeah
Let me find that reddit
Oh, so there's a couple people that I know on my twitter feed that were defending it i'm not going to put them on blast
Oh, yeah, no, it's all good
But but but on a but on a large scale like um
And when I say large scale just to the point where you can kind of point out a certain group of people
That defended uh the last shit. I you can't really find that with game of thrones season eight. There's pretty much
Oh right monday matt he's won
If you're talking to you that's actually that actually just credibility if he's defending this
The the bastion of truth and uh good reviewing that is monday matt
He kind of flopped on flipped on tlj sort of as well. Sorry criticizing people who didn't like it
Getting both sides in there matt went from I think he was trying to
Trying to find a way to come ahead of the hot takes
So the idea is that everyone was ripping into tlj rightly
So because the film is fucking garbage and then he wanted to make a video where he was like
You know what everybody we've ripped into it enough
The video he made one of his arguments were that uh jj is coming back for episode nine. Isn't that what we want?
It was like I don't I don't think many people want jj attached to make the ending to anything the man who famously can't end anything
I have catches can't figure matt out. I had him on my channel a long time ago before the whole false flagging situation
We talked after after the fact. I you know enjoyed talking with him, but he just
Did not have a core base on any situation. He just kind of he's like a robot
He's not a fan of my content. Jeremy. He said why would I watch a five-hour deconstruction when I could just watch the thing?
I got it. Fuck me up
Yeah, he he used to how are you gonna how are you gonna survive for that one mauler? I don't know
There's a guy in the chat saying unsurprisingly burrito likes game of season 18 that's christ, does he
Has does he have that again? I didn't seriously
Put a video for that. You're fucking with me, right? I did it. I don't follow. Hello. Greedo
You think greedo likes what?
Apparently greedo likes game of throw
According to a dude in the chat
No, i'll have a look at his newest stuff. Uh, we got knighthood knighthood too
Because holy shit, I was not aware of that. I guess i'm not I probably was subscribed to him up until there's another guy
That's corroborating
Is it just in tweets? Has he made any videos about it? It looks like you don't need to star wars videos
Yeah, I think that he only does. Uh
star wars videos
Fucking course he liked it, right? Like
God damn it
um greedo is trying like some of his fans when I when I responded to greedo on twitter a while back some of his
Fans come in and I said unlike you jeremy
He doesn't care about his subs and because i've made a comment that his sub is bleeding and i'm like dude in his bio
He's celebrating that he has 200 000 subs and he has all of his awards listed
He's he's basically putting his whole entire youtube resume over everything. He cares about his subs, but he's bleeding subs
So he's trying to he's trying to fall into the excuse that i'm intentionally doing this to lose subs now
No, you're not you're losing socials. People don't like you. You're you're you're just not good anymore
You know, i'm not trying to be a dick, but greedo is definitely in a youtube or midlife crisis
He has no idea what he's supposed to do anymore
Uh 100 being someone who's super critical of the prequels while doing random videos with takes on the sequels while loving them
It's it's locked him into this position where he has no idea what content he's supposed to make anymore
You see I don't give a shit that he loves the sequel. I give a shit passive aggressive people that are criticizing them
Oh, yeah, absolutely
I think you know, jeremy's had to say this a whole bunch of times too me and rags like tlj. It's fine
Like it. I don't really give a shit
So it's fine. I I think that if anything
It would probably be more honest to all of us to admit that there's definitely things to like in the movie
You know things that you probably say like yeah looking at that. I could totally see how someone would enjoy these these elements
Yeah, I mean i'm having a guy on my channel, uh, he's a he's a small creator
Well in the fan of minison
He likes the last jedi and he has no problem with the fact that he's surrounded by 99 of people in the family
Just to hate it and I can appreciate that
He doesn't sit there go. Oh, you're racist and sexist because you like it or you because you hate it
No, he just says hey
I like the movie and I appreciate the fact that
You guys all hate it, but I enjoy it
So i'm gonna have him on the channel so we can talk about that because there's nothing wrong with liking a goddamn movie
I don't know why these people can't figure that out
I mean it's it's fine to to have that discussion, you know
It'd be great if people
On both sides, I guess would just be able to disable these are my reasons why I like it or don't like it
And you know, we can either agree or not, but like we don't have to I guess hate each other because of it
I mean I I enjoy the amazing story man too and I read
utter trash fire of the film so
That's right
Constant character attacks and assumption of people's intentions probably aren't necessary
That probably damages people's perception of you far more than you just saying yeah, I like the last jedi
It's probably the part where you say we're all sexist and we hate black people
don't
Yeah, cry I was such a naive youtuber at that point
I was like I can put out a video criticizing black panther and then I remember I think it's on an efap
I'm like people are calling me racist. I don't understand
Those days where I would get shocked to be called racist. Yeah, it makes me yeah
Yeah
Now it's a shock to not be called racist like oh shit they didn't call me racist
Just like that meme with the with what's his face was like first time. Uh with james franco first time
I gave black pant. I've only seen black panther one time and initially when I walked out
I gave it like an eight out of ten and somebody a couple of people called me a clan member
For an eight
Fucking eight out of ten
Do you guys remember like oh my god
It had like a 100 rating and everyone hated the guy who gave it less than that because he said there's not enough fights in it
That was his reasoning. Yeah, and I remember people being so pissed to that guy
I just want to watch black people fight each other
Fucking trial by combat black on black violence
And I mean the other thing is like with people like grito
I just can't trust his standards
What makes it like good content because at least with me if I am liking a terrible film
I will say hey this film really terrible. Well, I had fun with it
Just don't don't go into expecting a masterpiece
But I mean yeah
You just try to oh try to yeah, you'd have you'd have no idea
If grito says episode nine is good. What the fuck are you expect to be in it? It's like I have no idea
I don't know. It's like yeah based on this person liking it. Can you describe what might be a part of the film?
No, like if only imagine how bad it was for him to say episode nine is fucking shit
Like if our selection said it i'd be like, oh
so does that mean that they actually find try and find consistent ways of making like repairing what was there and trying to
The reassemble the two previous abortions from from the sequel trilogy. It's like, oh that could mean a lot of things actually but
Yeah, hello gritos. Like you could be up for anything, especially if you like season eight game of thrones. Holy fuck
Feels bad man, it's like secondhand embarrassment
Well, it's like I mean everybody knows i'm a big fan of the nolan batman trilogy and I I still love the dark night
Rises, but you cannot sit there and objectively say that movie doesn't have massive problems that the other two
Thank you
We recently covered that jeremy actually really about about two hours ago. Yeah very recently
I about lost my mind. Yeah. Thank you
I love it. I love jeremy
Thank you. I I love the nolan trilogy and I still love the dark night rises
I do have my own problems with it. But yeah objectively speaking. There's just
There's just massive problems with that movie that you're like
Nolan the the king of attention to detail missed so much. It felt like he was checked out a little bit
Which is bizarre, right? Because he was on top of the world with the dark night
You think you'd want to nail it with this one?
I personally think the ledger thing really threw him for a big
Loop that he didn't know how to deal with because ledger was supposed to be in dark night rises, wasn't he?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean that fundamentally changed. I think everything about the direction they went. I'm pretty sure we would have
I'm pretty sure we would have followed up directly after the dark night
Which would have obviously been the logical, you know way to go because the ending of the dark night leaves so many questions
And such a fascinating ending of batman taking the responsibility and when ledger not there
I mean ledger is such a dominant force
So I don't know how you move forward with that movie if you pick up directly after the dark night
So I think that's where the eight year gap kind of came into play to kind of separate themselves from ledger's joker
A little bit which created a whole bunch of problems
You know, it's interesting. I actually would have loved to have seen
Oh, go ahead
No, I was just gonna say I mean
Would you kind of want the same antagonist to movies in a row though?
Well, he wasn't gonna be a primary antagonist
He was gonna be he was gonna be released with the prison
And I was gonna say I would have loved to have seen a scene where the joker meets bain
Like I wonder how their interactions would go like it would be awesome
Yeah, just like one little cameo would have been great
It would have been fantastic. Uh, yeah, but that was the rumor was he wasn't going to be the main, uh villain
But he was definitely going to make a a small appearance. I can be there assume
And this is this is this is absolutely what I think they would have done along with what they did with like jack sparrow
The joker might have ended up getting his own fucking trilogy of movies and it might have driven him into the ground as a character
um
but I think
Whatever he would have done in the dark knight rises probably would have been like amazing
He was he was just fantastic in the dark knight the only people I ever meet that don't like him are typically just like
He's not the joker that I know
Not the joker that
You know the joker, but the thing is with joker
He's got so many interpretations at this point that's kind of hard to pin down what the joker specifically is
Definitively, if you know what I mean reminds me of a certain red and blue clad superhero. Oh
You mean homelander
I've said this on efad before but homelander along with a bunch of characters from the boys apparently have been poorly adapted
And yet people are saying it's better than the source material
Uh, I can't speak to the source material. I mean certainly from his portrayal in in the actual tv show
Um, he's just a brilliant character. I would go as far as saying he was possibly the best actor in the whole show outside
Of carl even I was really impressed by the guy who played homeland
I really like the guy who played uh the deep as well. I thought you know, he played him
Well, and he had a great sort of character. You know, that was my stripper name
Wait, right. Have you seen the boys? We should check that out if you haven't. Have you seen my boys? Yes
I don't know though
Oh, any have you not seen it yet mauler the boys. Yeah. No i've watched it twice
Okay, but rags haven't seen it yet. I have not know. Oh, it's i've heard good things though. I've had i've heard many good things
It's definitely it's got a pilot little hook you once you figure out what's going on in the show
You'll be like, oh, yeah, i'll watch the shit out of this
First five minutes you're hooked you're like, holy shit. What the hell is going on?
It's next on my list of shows to watch but yeah
Like the whole thing with you know, uh, jeremy it'd be one thing if like you were saying that no the darkening rises
Really good and you just don't understand it. That's where I would like get into an all-out like fight with you like right here
but
You know as long as you acknowledge yeah
like
It doesn't it feels to live up to a standard of quality that we should be able to expect from movies
Um, I don't care if you enjoy it
By that I mean like it doesn't bother me that you enjoy it and i'm happy that you enjoy it
I wish I could play it but I don't so
I mean much to the in much on a much smaller scale obviously, but uh, you know the the
The assassination of luke skywalker's character
Uh, you're kind of dealing with that with batman and the dark knight rises like batman wouldn't take eight years off
It just wouldn't do it it wouldn't do it but again
Stepping back. I understand the difficulty in the ledger situation
So while i'm not forgiving the movie for the problems that it created
I can still find enjoyment because I do you know, I still love that universe that wouldn't be but
But yeah, there's massive problems
To kind of enjoy that movie, you know on the emotional level for the the moments it delivers without
You know
You can kind of separate that from your logical kind of understanding of the plot and and the problems there
And then you're fine
Like you're you're able you're able to say look I enjoyed it on that level and on a subjective level
But I can recognize all those objective flaws
Yeah, um and and and also like the thing with luke and batman at least with the dark knight rises
Um, they established that the city's crime rate
It was at like an all-time low as opposed to luke where like you've got the first order blowing up five planets that once like
Right now
You don't even have to go that far he literally left at like the worst timing ever
His his best friend and sister's son
Has lost his mind and killed a bunch of children slash students
And then run off and luke's like, you know what i'm gonna just leave
It's like luke. What the fuck?
But the dark knight rises was the most disappointing movie for me because like the force wiccans was not that amazing of a film
last jedi to be a follow-up to as opposed to like
Dude, you got batman begins and the dark knight. There is no excuse for it to be this fucking bad
Um, but at the same time I won't say that it's objectively
Worse than the last jedi. I just subjectively. Yeah, at least the dog and I didn't assassinate anybody from what I remember
Well, I mean I would say that it assassinated
Sent bruce, but I don't think that what bruce went through
uh
Like writing wise was nearly as bad as what happened with with luke. So
That's my two cents
Right. I think yeah, I think you're pretty much uh
buying on with that one
uh, at least um at least
Batman actually gets to do something useful. Oh, yeah
And there's a reason why he's you know absent as opposed to luke
I don't think it's a particularly great reason, but it's a reason
Well, not just a reason but like at least at least like crime is at an all-time high or something. It's at an all-low. So
yeah
playing off of uh
Some of the things that are obvious here is like I like I was a big fan of the forest awakens until the last jedi
And then it showed me that the force awakens needed to follow up to be good for because it's not a good movie in its
Own on its own. It's got a lot of problems and it needed to follow up, but you have a spider-man 3
Well spider-man 2 doesn't fall off any because spider-man 2 is an all-time great film
I love spider-man 2 same with the dark knight the dark knight rises
It created a lot of problems
But it doesn't affect the greatness of the dark knight because on its own the dark knight is a great movie
That's where the force awakens falls apart because it needed the follow-up to pay off
Wait, I'll I'll just cop to it
Like um, I needed somebody to explain to me why the force awakens was terrible because I was kind of taken away with it
I was just like yay splenda happy stuff. Whoo
Well, I think it's because the um, the expectations were so low after the prequels. I think most people were just pleased that uh,
JJ nailed his intention. I think is probably what happened there
Like he fully intended to dangle those keys and he dangled them
There was big shiny keys and we all just well, not all of us a lot of people saw right through it
But I was one of the people who's like yay keys
Oh, yeah, I was enamored at first
Yeah, my I have a brother who um, he absolutely adored the force awakens and then the last shot I came out and
As opposed to me where I I came out of this
rage, um
He he like went on facebook and he's like, oh it was fine
You know
It's better than the prequels and it's worse than all the others
And then I had a few conversations with him and it took him like a week to sort of
Develop, um a little bit and then he would later post on facebook that he thinks it's in the series and and
We're still on like in agreement on that to this day
And I think that he hates the last jedi a little more than I do just because of how much he loved
the force awakens compared to me
Um, and so it's just that that kind of disappointment really will affect your ability to enjoy a film
I think with uh with the force awakens
Certainly for me, I had a kind of naive confidence in JJ Abrams and and the story that they were going to tell
You know, it was like, okay, there's certain pieces of this puzzle that are missing here
There's lots of things that aren't explained very well
But it's okay. I have confidence in them
you know, they've got a clever story worked out and they'll deliver with part two and three and
I was able to sort of suspend that that kind of
Niggling voice that said this isn't correct. This isn't a little one voice
Okay
Nickling, oh, okay
Uh, I was actually gonna say we should probably read this out before he he scans over it
So a guy called martin zika, I guess on twitter said I think some people are raging because something they invested two years into
Literally did not mean anything as of now
Video video raise parents snoke. It's all nothing. TLJ is a subverting experience and sort of a meta mirror to star wars craze
um
So what's funny about this actually that I think that a lot of people might miss is that I don't know that ryan
Ryan had his own story to tell that couldn't fit in a plot line about raised parents doing x y and z that couldn't fit
In snoke's history
Have you heard the argument a lot of people saying like oh, what do you want a scene where someone goes?
Hey, snoke, who are your parents? Where are you from? What were you doing? That'd be terrible
They're like 20 minutes of exposition
And I think that there might be a degree to that with ryan where he was just like I
Don't need to do that
It's not a room in my in my amazing film as it is
But a lot of people interpret that as it was genius
He took what we expected and flipped it on its head
It's a meta art film about the the world in which star wars takes place
We covered a movie bob not so long ago and he can't stop fucking talking about the meta narrative
Meaning how the film translates to what's going on in life right now?
Like what's going on in our world? Is it outside of the film? It's jesus christ people
Can we just talk about what's in the film?
If there if there's anything that's guaranteed to make a film enjoyable and successful
It's shoving 21st century politics into it and and making loads of commentary on our present day
World and culture like you could have done that you could have done it. Well
I like to empire without donald trump
I mean, yeah, you can absolutely take
Take a film and then you can interpret it in a way to like sort of drive some social commentary
Yet that's not going to change my experience when I view the film. That's not what I see
What I what I see is just crap
And
It's funny because you talk about like the whole involving politics and stuff my conclusion from tlj was
Oh the republic allowed slavery to take place and the the first order has just taken them over
So hopefully they'll abolish it
Or maybe offer um a route in terms of like a job and shelter and food and in the in the form of joining galactic
You know armed forces
Maybe they'll do something for the universe
We've been over this on previous efats
I just love the fucking fact that the kid is so pro rebels when just yesterday the republic were in charge
And he was a slave like why the hell would he he liked the republic?
Why would he like the rebels have just the rebels have just come in and trashed the the place where he works and like set
Free all these animals that he's going to have to like clean up after and he's just they've basically made a whole bunch of work
For him and made his life worse and i'll be generous the child could see through the propaganda. Yeah
Very very skeptical he could see the deeper themes
That's the thing generous in my video and just assumed that like like the the takeaway we have from this is that there are blah blah blah
But it's like no, it's just a blatant fuck up. The the kid has the understanding of the audience
The kid for some reason is privy to all the information we have is like, why would he be?
Why would he know all of the complex politics of the universe other than first order of just destroyed the new republic the new republic
That's his that's his power. It's force understanding. It's a bullshit. Some might even call it force perspective save the
horses leave the children
He's the one slave child that reads the the galactic news network
Do you remember some people like they couldn't have fit all the kids onto the the ship and it's like so leave them all
If we can't save them all
Like there's a bus falling off like a fucking freeway. It's like you can't get them all out. Let them go
They go fuck. Okay
Ah like a horse drawn carriage dangling over the cliff so you save the person save the horses
Johnson wishes do not matter your preconceived notions of things to come don't count what you think is important is not important
Tell me what shot me tweet and said it perfectly the last jedi is a subverting experience and sort of a
meta mirror
That's the thing you got to step outside the content to defend tlj because of how bad the content is
You're really it's a meta thing. It's a mirror. It's a physics
Desperately clawed any buzzword
Meta narrative meta narrative
Is
We want epic resolutions to things we find epic right when we think something is of great importance
We expect an equally epic moment of closure, but it turns out being shitty is even better
Was it not epic to have ghost luke fired upon by an army of at 80s?
I don't know. I love that a bunch of delusional at 80 pilot
What i'm getting is the 2019 is it just the 2019 dust off your shoulder bullshit, which is so
Oh god, like in 15 20 years what kid's gonna be like, oh, yeah, that's cool. No, they're not what i'm pointing out here is the
That's cool. Tlj
Kids today are like that's like you have 12 year olds being like, is that like a fortnite reference?
I do I wish I could have like snap shot my face
Is luke t posing on the empire with his default dance emote? I don't understand how when you have luke do the floss dance
Oh god, well when you when you did the shoulder thing, I remember being like, oh
Okay
Yeah, I was like, okay
If I don't I cover what I said in my video, but that did feel kind of like luke did that
Like imagine obi-wan doing that shit, man
Yeah, I think that tlj people who are in favor of tlj they typically like that um that big epic scene
They would they would call it epic him coming out of the smoke and dusting off his shoulder, right?
They use that they use that that uh, they give all the time on twitter when they're defending it. That is their go-to right there
Oh, that's why it's in the movie right next to people to defend it on twitter
Right, you know what?
I would cap with the cap. I'm, sorry
Will somebody go jeremy you go jeremy
No, i was just gonna say I wouldn't be surprised if ryan johnson put that in the movie specific for twitter, uh responses
I mean that was his exact reasoning for it
Like oh, yeah, we could do this for twitter responses because that's in his mind right now is is anything
I know that shithole will defend anything
Also the line the line where luke says amazing every every word that you just said
They use that too it's been posted on my videos many times
I was like not a single thing. I said was accurate. You know, you do know I praise the movie and sit in aspects, right?
No, wait, did they actually do they actually like elaborate? Oh god. No, why would they do that? Why would they make a point?
fucking exactly
Epic right when we think something is of great importance
We expect an equally epic moment of closure the last Jedi reminds the audience that they are not in control
I've been reading a lot of comments and hearing a lot of people on podcasts
I had the ability to control the events of the movies I was watching so that really um shook me
Yeah, and you gotta you know, when you make a movie you gotta you gotta realize you gotta dab on those haters
That describes ghostbusters 2016 the above like preemptive lines of dialogue that are like we know you'll hate this
Yep
Snoke was this powerful being and he was supposed to be one of the most powerful force builders ever and now he's just dead
What's up with that? I love how he says that like it's a great subversion
Yeah, no, you believe it. It's just fucking stupid
No, no, I think that what he's what he's doing is he's uh quoting the criticism
Oh, well, I mean
I guess we'll see how he responds to it at the end of the morning. Can we rewind it just to like get that in context?
Like just 10 seconds. Yeah, but like in in the wider context of this video
That is his point that these are things that we expected because of right
I guess he's trying to say that these are like
Reasonable in terms of expectations, but having them not fulfilled isn't exactly bad. It's just a different
Wait, who said he was this super powerful dude? Why do you think that did you hear that on youtube?
Uh, right because he built him up that way you fucking tard
Do we want to present the information that implies that snoke is powerful and with full resources, hmm
Uh, he does the force skype thing between kylo and ray and doesn't die from the effort
Yeah, that's said to kill people like luke skywalker
and and snoke can just
Link to other force users
And he he's fine
Um bullshit, yeah, he seems and he's he's in charge of the entirety of the first order
Which is an even more seemingly even more powerful version of the empire
For some reason they're incredibly stupid by comparison though
They have they have a giant, uh planet-sized death star that can destroy solar systems
You know, I think of red letter media when they talk about how how to try and trump himself like jj
I don't know how um rich evans was like we'll have
A fucking jupiter sized death star at its jupiter spot will shoot and it'll destroy half of the galaxy
You know, it's like really puzzling about the circular basis, uh, is there like any confirmation
It's a little laser cannon thing can like rotate around and move because I don't think that's possible
Um, which means that oh, that's the whole thing you have to position the whole
The whole thing just rotates like a planet. It's it's going to rotate like a planet. It's going to revolve around a sun
I presume like a planet. So then basically let's say that they need to take out camino, but camino is like
uh on a totally different like it's in a totally different system and it's like super far away and
Like the the star killer base in camino can never like actually line up
So it'll take like 15 years. They could actually get a shot at camino
I take it it moves doesn't it moves between systems and then it it sucks the power out of whatever star is there in order to
cannon
Which where do you think that sucking the power out of the star would do the trick?
Like that would kill the planet. Oh
Well, it's actually yeah, good point. It's a solar system space
So it the temperature has got to drop to like minus 300 or something and yet, you know
There's trees on it and an atmosphere that means that in order to destroy a solar system
They destroy another solar system
Just by existing like they take away the sun
Yeah
If you imagine this without the sun we'd be fucked
Yeah
Yeah, you could literally just destroy the star and then all the planets in that system will just die
Anyway, you don't have to shoot laser beams at them
I mean the only thing that it really does is it removes people's ability to flee from the planet to go to another planet
Which I would get but even then leaving it as like a ghost planet would almost be even more effective as a symbol of your power
Well, the problem is that the star killer is a planet
So it's not like they can control where it goes like they could with the death star. Oh, wait
They mentioned that the sun regenerates is that a thing
So they steal the the the the power they suck out of the sun they have to wait for it to like
Regenerate someone's actually gonna fucking fact check me on this because I can't remember anymore. I have to watch force awakens again
The sun was gone it takes the star from the system being destroyed not a separate system. I don't think that's true
Maybe
Moves it with the
Fuck it i've forgotten how the star so because the idea is it sucks the sun up and fires a laser out of itself
but
I thought it fired it across a separate one because if you look at
In force awakens when it fires its cannon at uh at the you know, the homeworld of the um
The republic there's still a star there in that system because it's daylight when it impacts the ground
So that star is still intact. So it sucked the life out of some other star in a different solar system
Clarify me saying the sun regenerates. I'm not saying that makes sense
I'm saying that I can't remember if that was the case or not that they they say that that's the case
I'm not I would never advocate that the sun can regenerate makes sense. Don't worry
I mean if the sun like if the sun's that it stars that it consumes regenerate then at least that's all the issue of them
having limited
well because
They fire in force awakens and then they have another they're about to fire again once they find the base soon after right?
Yeah, not that long. It's literally like I want to say like a day or something
But they must have either traveled or there was two suns in the system. I can't remember
I mean I imagine that like it can it can suck the power of stars from a certain distance
We're over idolizing for sure
Right. I just want to say because like the idea is that they had a moon
In the originals and then they're like now we got a planet and it can destroy multiple planets at the same time
You're like, all right. All right. All right calm down
All right
Everyone's concerned that JJ's gonna introduce another death star in the newest one. It's like well in the trailer
We've already got the ot death star there. Some people are saying it's gonna rise
Like there's gonna be repaired and rise. I was like, oh fuck please though
There's a rumor going around right? Yeah
Exactly. Ray is supposed to lift it over jakku. That was the rumor going around
What I mean, why not she might as well she can do
She should snap her finger and everything should be good. That's it
You know what?
The next movie should have of like the next death star killer based thingy
Uh fire laser at a planet that ray is on and then she just stops a person that redirects it and destroys it
And then and then and then flicks her shoulder, yeah
She does like a little crotch chop as well
Will any of this go into the critique of the force awakens
Well, I need to the funny thing is right once i'm done with the game of thrones next video
I'm still fucking finishing because it's taken ages
I have to redraft my third part of tfa because I haven't touched that part of the script
In what feels like possibly just over half a year. So
There's a good chance that I need to update a lot of it
And uh, yeah, I might have to look into the functionality of the fucking star killer because apparently I don't understand exactly how it works
Uh, we get it. Can we get a mauler has time for 24 hour e-fab but not time to finish his force awakens critique
People got pissed at me for just having a six hour stream once per week
And it's like how dare you take six hours out of your week to not do editing. It's like, okay
Yeah
How dare you sleep this one they have an argument for but this happens once piff fucking 365 days
So maybe you know
It's like it's like the argument of like, you know, spider-man wouldn't want to take a break
It's like your videos take these six. He's a hero heroes. Don't take breaks. Okay, so cops soldiers paramedics firefighters
No, no, stop it. No logic. Stop it. Don't forget the most heroic job of all being a mother
Oh
That's a racism
That's the most difficult job on the planet I believe it goes
That's how that whole joke got started
I was I was live streaming at like three o'clock in the morning and somebody says oh Jeremy has time to live stream at
3 a.m
But he can't be on the high council. I'm like high council's on tuesday
The hell's this got to do with what of course not, you know what?
So I started making this joke as a server time I do anything you guys are just gonna say I don't have time for it like
You know go to go to eat pizza. Oh Jeremy has time to eat pizza, but he doesn't have time
Now it's turned into this big thing now
Oh and and then then when I was on the high council last week
Somebody said oh Jeremy has time to be on the high council, but he can't make more car videos
I was like, oh my god. Now I can't get out of this now everything I do
I'm gonna have to answer for why i'm not doing something else, which I love by the way
Can I just say as well I think apology to halo greedo we're talking about more interesting things than his video like
Just yeah, you know, this kind of just proves how boring you really are. We can't even stay on point with your video
Well, you didn't have to make this video. You could have put the title the the it's subvert your expectations
That's all this fucking video is
Yeah, i'm assuming there's a thrust of his argument here and we're actually gonna get a reason for this because at the moment
It's just like this movie does x y and z and that's why it's good
Yeah, this thrust is definitely not upward
His first argument was that uh, what gave you the impression that snoke was powerful and has lots of resources and would lead to something
It's like oh, I don't know the previous film the ship carries like hundreds of thousands of people
He has a planet that's been made into rags. Do you remember?
You guys will love this. So in the major lead debate
We were like why weren't all of the ships sent?
To destroy the radis the the tie fighters because if you remember one tie fighter destroys the hangar and the bridge
So a lot of tie fighters would mean the destruction of the radis and his response was how do you know?
That they didn't only have four tie fighters at the time
And rag says at the end of the film we see at least like 11 chasing the millennium falcon
So we know for a fact that there's at least 11 and then major lee's argument was yeah
But that's after they were destroyed by holdo's maneuver
Do you know I know everyone's quiet because you're thinking yeah, I was gonna say you should be laughing that makes no fucking sense at all
Because even I even I am I still kind of think about
That logical progression it made sense enough to him for him to say it out loud to get to simplify it for you
Why did you fire only one bullet in your in your gun with 30 shots and it's like well
Maybe you only had one bullet and I go later they fired 10 bullets. It's like yes
But that was after the gun was dropped on the floor
It's fucking amazing that's all i'm gonna say
After what we did to major lee on his video on the high council, I I nothing
He says surprises me and the amount of stupidity that comes out of his mouth
I think this is proof that if you go through enough mental gymnastics
You just lose all sense of what's up and down and you don't know where you're at anymore with a movie
You can at least you know when people say like themes
I actually understand what they're trying to achieve with their argument
But when you what major lee said about that, like I don't understand how he thought that was an argument
So I went uh, i'm on the the wookie pedia
for the supremacy
And you can look up you can look up all kinds of things like the complement which is eight star destroyers to docked
Internally two star destroyers inside the sims inside of it. Yes
Are two docked star destroyers inside their backups for the complement of six that are docked externally
Oh massive. What's the average tie fighter count on a star destroyer? Do you really want to know it's gonna be like a hundred thousand
We'll go down this rabbit hole. So the crew
So who wants to guess what the crew of the supremacy is in terms of one?
I'm i'm gonna go big one million one million i'm going with two million guesses. We got guesses
I'm gonna say 500 000
All right
We're going with a million. I think the million is the number to be at. Okay
j
Got a guess
Gonna say jl because jay's already taken
jl
Oh, wait
Where where are you? Yeah, the supremacy and the last jedi's the fucking enormous
Ship, the gospel in half
We're taking guesses on what the crew
Whether what the personnel it takes to operate how many people are on that ship. Do you have a guess?
Fuck like maybe like 150 000
Okay, so according to wookie pedia. It is two million
Please
Two million two hundred and twenty-five thousand of course it is
Two-thirds of my entire state's population are on this one spaceship
I mean a spaceship probably created on that ship
Wait, can we do is there is there a account for tie fires? I want to do a guess for that as well
Oh, let me take a look
I'm gonna guess
10 000 for tie fires
Well, i'm i'm taking a look we've got it just says personal the personnel includes stormtroopers first order officers fleet engineers
Elite praetorian guards stuff like that
um
Let me see ten thousand too much. I don't know
because that's the thing if there are
well the
I I would at least double the
the number of my personnel
When you think about it though
It doesn't matter how many tie fighters there are because they can't cover them when they're that far ahead and they might potentially lose one or two
Oh, you're right. You're right. The first order is not willing god forbid they lose a tie fighter
Okay
It's not like losing a single tie fight
I did a little google search
A star destroyer is apparently it has six squadrons of 12 ships. So that's 72 tie fighters per star destroyer
So that means that of them
So we've got eight
Of them so eight times 72 what wait, but this this what is it called the supremacy?
How big is it compared to a star destroyer? That's just star destroyers and what they carry
So here's one on how many tie fighters can the supremacy carry?
um
How many tie fighters kind of supremacy? Oh, there's a big old. Oh, there's a big picture from like a wiki page or something
Um unprecedented scale you got that right?
um
Ship of legends data. Um, I would have to look further into it
Well, I would uh, I would love it if the guy from the not so great debate if you could put those kind of numbers to him
I'd just say
Why didn't they use them?
Like what would be his answer?
The fun thing is with the stuff like this
Yeah that and you get to the point where it's almost like don't do this to them
Wait, I'm alone
So if the e of its star destroyer complement it carries
576 tie fighters
um, and obviously there would be more if it's the supremacy the supremacy would obviously carry a
Vast array because if it has the docking capability for multiple star destroyers to clarify regs they have more than four
They do have more than four my my god
They have at least 576
So why the fuck did they said four?
Because um
It was lunch break
Like the supremacy you you understand right? If you if you put this to ryan johnson his response would be like
Yeah, you know
They weren't uh, you know, there's a lot of there's a lot of things to consider during a war like there's
a lot of back and forth there's a lot of um
It's a very mentally stressful situation
They did send out like scouts and they decided that it would be much safer a much better approach to
lock in their enemies
It's so it's weird like on quora. There's a question that says um a resurgent class
Should have 72 of them because there's two wings, which means there's 12 resurgent class with a supremacy
That means the first order had 864 tie fighters to throw thoratus, which is 300 more than just our star destroyer
Lowball guesstimate. So we got 864 tie fighters here
um
Let's see
I
Looking for an answer here because they're wondering why the question is essentially what happened to the first order is fighter comp
Because there should be close to a thousand of them depending on how you want to tally them up. Do you think do you think?
Uh, gram off talking killed more people on alderaan or do you think holdo killed more people in her maneuver?
Um two million people aboard the supremacy by itself plus, you know, however many hundreds of thousands are in all those various star destroyers
That's a pretty hefty number. You've got to be getting close to three million. I guess it depends on how big alderaan is
Apparently what's interesting here is that the
Answer here that's got the most up votes
It's fucking retarded. Um, we still don't know exactly what kind of depth the first order military has
It's a first-rate technological power
But what kind of casualties can it absorb in terms of manpower or material? We still don't know
We do know that its tie fighters have shields this suggests that it cares about force preservation
Hux's behavior during the battle likewise indicate he's concerned about the possibility of losing
Or absorbing damage. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, this is absolutely retarded
We can destroy the basically the only enemy that we have
Right here. We can just do it. We can do it. Oh, but we might lose some people if you have
Well, what was the number 2.2 million people on just one ship?
2.2 million people you've probably got some form of a repair mechanic station for everything as well as medics
I seriously fucking doubt you can sustain 2.2 million people unless you have some investment in the many different
Running elements of a culture or society. There's no fucking way there's no doctors in the stormtrooper element like come on
I always got the impression from the the movie that's like in that scene where hux tells the
Kylo to pull back. He's not concerned about the loss of
Tie fighters. It's more kylo ren that he's trying to keep safe
But again, it doesn't make sense why he would want to keep him safe. That's true. Actually the defenders of this question are insane
they say
The reason they declined to deploy them and called back kylo ren squadron
Three three three which three three tie fighters, right?
Is because the fighters would have been completely unsupported which is a waste of good pilots
The fighters didn't I that's baffling how you could say that why why send why send four in the first place though?
Why send four in the first place? Why have an army? Why haven't I even have an army like closing in on hitler's bunker?
And it's like well, you know, we could try and rush in and capture him
But uh, well, we might lose our comrades in the process so we can't have that
Okay, it says the fighters didn't have weapons capable of doing more than surface damage to the radis
They docked out the bridge and the hangar
What the hell one one salvo destroyed?
All of the enemy ships on the inside and a second one destroyed the entire bridge
This is they they breached the hull once they've done that you can do that to the whole fucking ship
I mean, yes, the shields are on the front. Just attack everything attack the engines. Go for the fucking engines
This is installed bad for two. Go for the fucking engines
There's something I wondered about the the radis as well
Like the the bridge gets destroyed obviously quite early on
But then when holdo takes command of it and she she hyperspace jumps into the the supremacy
She seems to be on the bridge. She's stupid. There's obviously two back up bridge. Yep, two bridges. Thanks total sense
That just looked pretty much identical
Two bridges why wouldn't you build a backup bridge in your ship?
There's that it's weird when I google this question. There's a lot of people asking this question
Because it makes no fucking sense
Um, um to answer your question, I looked it up in the chat confirmed it, but uh alderaan has two billion people
Ah, so grandma of talking does have a higher kill count than uh, our wonderful people here fucking
Oh, well people are talking about they could catch the chance of four
Stunning and great more stunning and stunning, you know to to sustain a ship with the amount of manpower as the
Supremacy like they would have to have kind of their own economy on that ship. Yes with two million people
You're gonna have do you imagine living on there? There'll be like there'll be areas two and a quarter million people
That's insane. What do they eat? How do you travel from one end to the other? Is there like a system of like a trade?
Well, let me go back
Conventions
Okay, so the width of the supremacy
60.5
Thousand meters. So it's 16 and a half kilometers long
What what possible reason is there to build a ship that big exactly? Why the fuck is it that people will argue to you?
It represents the affluence of the first order and the like
Pompository pompository. I think that's the word. Yeah, so does a thousand star destroyers. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's the thing
It's no use dumb rags and a thousand star destroyers all across the galaxy and do a whole bunch of different things
You've got the supremacy. It can only be in one place at one time doing one
Yeah, but snoke is stupid and he buys things that are expensive and he shows off how awesome he is with his gold slippers
And gold even though he managed to rise from the fucking ashes of the of the empire
An organization that was incredibly like intelligent compared like I don't understand how any of that works
If I was the resistance and I saw the supremacy i'd be like, oh, thank fucking god. They did that
All right, everyone off the ship. We're gonna kamikaze it and blow up the entire enemy ship with one of our tiny little shitty ones
You say that but they knock out like fucking eight of the stupid little ones in one shot as well
Yeah, instead of just a thousand small smaller star destroyers with the same amount of manpower
Let's just put all of our manpower in one ship in that way
If if someone somehow manages to take out this ship we're fucked
Let's put all of our eggs in one basket. You've just reminded me as well by the way
The dreadnought either is it it doesn't have any particularly heavy weapons or anything like that. No, I don't think so
Which is interesting. I don't know. Um, so they have a list of armament heavy ion cannons tractor beam projectors first order drop ships
Um a whole complement of armored transports
Mega caliber walkers scout transports. Oh, they even have snokes escape shuttle listed
Um, I was about to say don't forget snokes escape shuttle
You guys do get that that was invented on the spot they were like fuck ray's gonna get out of here
How the fuck she gonna do that? Uh, she could fly down to the planet. It's like no, we probably can't do that twice
Just like you didn't even and she didn't even use it to fly
Down onto the planet. She somehow this looks crazy
She somehow because the wiki actually says for the for his shuttle
That she abandoned it in the wreckage of the fleet
To get I guess picked up by the millennium falcon
She didn't take it out of the place
She'd gone into an escape pod inside the escape shuttle to enter the millennium falcon with chewie
Well, she she transitioned from the escape shuttle snokes escape shuttle
To the millennium falcon at some point between the supremacy in the planet
I I wish that shut I wish we'd got a scene of her on that escape shuttle and it had been like jeff goblem's pleasure barge
And thor ragnarok like she's trying to use like the hyperdrive and it starts setting off fireworks and like pull dance and things
Come down from the ceiling and stuff
No, she she would have been great. She lined up the escape shuttle with
Cockpit and then flew through a vacuum of space just like leah did into the millennium falcon. That's what she did
And it even says here hux was shown extremely upset that they were unable to get the raditz immediately during the chase
So all of this this whole oh, they're just being villainous and flaunting their power by not destroying immediately
He's like no hux was upset. They couldn't blow it up immediately. He wanted to blow it up immediately
Because the supremacy is a big ship that doesn't move very fast whenever you discuss tlj
There's just infinite problems. Like you just constantly find more and it's like insulting to the fucking
Just everything like your brain can't take it. It's just like oh fuck. This doesn't make so this doesn't make so this was
People are suggesting it's like yeah, you know ray could have just force flown down to the planet. I mean leah did it
It's like yeah. Yeah. Yeah, why not? That's it
It's like you said with the with them inventing the uh, the pod
It's like that's everything everything about this entire sequel trilogy was just invented on the spot. There was no communication. There was no
uh
JJ ryan you guys sit down and talk and let's talk about
Continuity within the films and let's discuss how we want to get to the the third act of the trilogy
Let's discuss all no. None of that happened. It's just like hey show up and let's figure out ideas because
Just star wars. Tyler's mask man. It's like JJ's like this mask is so cool. It's like a ripoff vader
He's like a he's like a fan boy. It's so cool. Ryan's like this mask is gay
I'm gonna crush it boom done and the next one he's like no i'm gonna repair it. Fuck you
And that's what I said
I've made that point on my channel multiple times where basically jj and ryan johnson are in like an m&m eight mile
Rap battle with this movie, you know, like jj had his set up then ryan's like i don't like what jj did
I'm fixing to flip everything that jj did now jj's like oh, well collin's fired
Let me go and and flip everything back the way I want it because that's pretty much all this is a pissing contest between two
Beta mill if only if only there was like a a president of lucas film who had some kind of overall control
Over these movies and was able to say, you know
We've got a story arc that we figured out and you guys are going to stick to it
And you're just the instrument. Oh my god, dude to be a fly on the wall where ryan johnson presents his script
And they go. Oh, this is shit
We are talking about the the the woman that allowed solo to become 90 done before she decided to go
Yeah, hey, what exactly they have going on in that movie? I don't like any of this
Let's fire those guys. Jeremy if you if you were like producer in charge or director of all of it and stuff and ryan
Presented his face drafts you what what exactly would you have said if you were in a good professional relationship? What would you say?
I said, okay, ryan. How did you come to these conclusions based on what we already have set up?
I need you to make me understand
I need you to make me understand how you came to these conclusions based on
the two hour and 15 minute movie
That you have to work within the structure of
You know, give me some type of logic
I'll just say this the the stupid throwaway line with
Scapes is lame
But it's it is preferable to her just appearing on the planet without us knowing how she got there like right. Oh, definitely
Yeah, I will take it. I will take it. We will be talking about how it doesn't make sense
Instead of a plot hole. It's a plot convenience or contrivance. Oh, he just has the magic knee brace from the dark knight rises
It's still shit, but it's it's it's yeah
Bruce is limping around puts on the magic knee brace and kicks down a fucking wall. I feel like what?
How does he kick bane's ass later on in the movie when he doesn't have the knee brace?
Does does he not have it are you sure they took it off him?
I'm pretty sure that they didn't take it off of his his entire suit could have been the the magic suit brace. Oh the suit
jesus christ
No, no, what what really amazes me is the way that he defeats bane is he decides to do this really smart strategy called
Punching him right in the fucking mouth. Yeah
You can think that might hurt considering he's got this metal components to his mouth
But don't do that in the first fucking fight
Wait, are you saying that your primary question about the dark knight rises is how does his knee grow?
Oh
Have you guys I didn't see that you've seen the can't be a clip right he actually showed it on uh,
I think I was able to show it on here
A name the fucking yeah, john can't be a but has he has he actually made any public comments about that?
I don't think so. Has he been like yeah, that was a fuck up. Sorry about that
Like
Well, it just shows it just shows how how disingenuous he is when he said oh
I love that name because he was gonna say that no matter what the name was just to kind of say because he didn't realize
What he was saying. He's just being a douchebag
Uh, oh, that's so funny. I love that that clip exists. I've been caught on a similar
Play on words in the past though. I have to be very careful on my super chance. Can I um, oh definitely
Well, it's it's I'm not saying
It cannot happen to someone who cares about their fans
however
When you're reading super chats in the in the fake sort of like la la la la la la la la la la la la la la
Like like without actually caring about what they're actually saying you'll just read something and be oblivious to what the actual
Thing is uh, and it just makes sense to me that john capio would read it off and be golden about it
Like that's funny that you said that move a god. It's like oh
What are you doing? Oh, yeah, i'm sure that piss was fucking overjoyed at that reaction
Yeah, I want to highlight at some point at some point since dark knight rises
He's coming up at some point on the efap
You need to just go through bane posting and just look at all the memes because I mean i'm sure you've all seen them before
But they're the greatest things ever
So I wanted to highlight whether it makes sense for the efap 24 hour efap in general that uh, we are
Almost one and a half hours in and we've made it through
One minute and 10 seconds of the studio
Oh, yeah, that's right. I forgot there's a hello every frame of fucking pause. Am I right?
Oh my goodness. I think this speaks
Speaks highly. I think this speaks more to how boring greedo is
I lost myself in the pathetic defense
Of the last jedi. When is the defense of the last jedi not pathetic rags?
It's just so interesting
how people will see this happening
And the honest question being asked is like there are like hundreds a hundred thousands of 15
I think in the film there are 15 star destroyers with a supremacy
And they're like, oh they couldn't give their fighters. So they need support. It's like you have 15
imagine uh
Destroyers you were like on your you were threadbare like in terms of you were about to quit working at lucas film and they're like, okay
So uh, the snoke has this giant super star destroyer thing. Okay, it can dock
six or eight star destroyers like
Okay, it has two inside of it. You're like fuck this
I'm out. I can't stab this shit anymore. You just you're just making shit up. Everything keeps getting bigger
Why can't we focus on characters just there are consequences to the things that you create in your fictional world inside
weapons and ships of this magnitude
That means that they will have an impact on things that want to have those things dead
You know, we've seen they on the supremacy is this big and it has all of this stuff and all these things
But this little bitty radish ship
Just can't they just can't kill it. What's the fucking point of this shit? What is the purpose of your army?
Exactly. You have two and a quarter million people twiddling their thumbs on that ship wondering. Why are we here?
We have to destroy them they're going to destroy the first order they want to kill us
Why are we not killing them? We what do you mean? We've been told to wait and stand down
Why why there are two and a quarter million of us, you know
I like the idea that you highlight all this nation if you just joined their rebellion, right and you find out so what do we have?
It's like we have one big ship and 400 people. Okay. What do they have?
about five million people
See that big one the big one that shaped like a fucking dildo
Yeah
That's got uh, that's got two and a quarter million people on it. Just that one and there's 15 star destroyers
Oh, let me see how many people are on a star. That's just what they have in that particular
I was going to say we don't know that that's the full force of the first order
There would be no reason for that to be the full force because they wouldn't send every literal unit after a 400 person man ship
That's ridiculous. So I just love the idea that it's like, all right. So what's our strategy? It's like give up
Give up give up give up. Yeah, you know the the fucking thinking face. You're like, hmm
400 versus oh my like 3 million every
Every they have these are resurgent. I'm sorry star destroyers are the new one the they have complement
Obviously cruisers ground vehicles troop transport. Do they have star destroyers inside them? They could birth
And so the crew there are
19,000 officers
55,000 enlisted men and over 8,000 storm troopers
For a grand total of fucking lots
This is what I mean like 15
There's being the underdog and then there's being like oh, we're just a speck of dust in the universe
You know, it's like the first order they've shown that they can get a bigger death star
They can get bigger star destroyers bigger at at's, you know what they have is
Bigger at st's they should just make a giant at st and then call the cosmic chicken. Oh, fuck that dude
Make a giant emperor. He's just a giant spaceship sized emperor that electrocutes
the universe
Kind of what they showed in the force awakens with snow's hologram
Hey, i'm excited plus it's not just about it's not just about losing men if the idea if the if the pathetic
autism defense of your stupid shit movie
Is that they're concerned they're so concerned about losing their men
This is the final battle
This will destroy the resistance
They won't exist anymore after this and if they don't exist they can't fuck your shit up
Like four days ago, they blew up your star killer base and right think about it. Think in reverse
You got 400 it's not a lot 400 in a war
That's all they got left on the rebel side
They don't seem to give a shit about the the loss of their bed. Whatever. They just send them off into battle
They get obliterated. They're like, oh well
Go go jump into these speeders and ram the giant laser. Hopefully that'll work
You'll get fucking shot down. It's like oh, well, you know
Well, it's just just the most basic
Machiavellian principle just make it go in be quick get the job done
Just get it over with just do it
This is the final battle that you will ever possibly need for god knows how long if this
Is the last remnants of the only military force that even approaches something that's a concern to you
Crush it
Just just do it. It doesn't matter if you lose every single tie fighter. What if they lose a tie fighter though?
It's just insane and what are they going to do is like what?
What is what? How are you going to lose a tie fighter? Exactly?
I think it's just a perfect example of the the fundamental building blocks of your story are completely wrong
They're just completely flawed and everything that builds on top of that is just going to be equally wrong to um
Almost echo what brown table said earlier about resources. It's like you could tell that jj was sort of supplementing
Intimidation from the first order not building it through
Let's say character. Let's say even the way they're shot stuff like that. He's just like no, there's just fucking loads of them
You're like, okay, that is pretty intimidating. There's a lot of them
So when it comes into war scenarios, we're like, oh, so what do we know? They have this many and jj's suddenly like
well
There's not that many right now. Like what do you mean? It's like I can't make my war scenario work the way I want it
To if there's that many and you're like, yeah
And the same for ryan, it's the same each time it's just like suddenly there's not that many, you know in venice of jj though
If you guys remember when they first go on to the um in force awakens when they go on to the the planet killer fucking
Whatever when the tie fighters are first alerted and sent there's like a fucking swarm of them
Same for rogue one when they sent out to defend that random, you know transport planet or whatever
Um for some reason tlj is the only one as far as i'm I know we're the first order slash the empire like
Reserved with the amount of high fives
No, i'm wrong. The only other time is in the ot where they pretend to attack the millennium falcon. They send how many?
Was it four?
When they're trying to pretend to assault them and when they're serious about it in tlj. They said how many?
four
Fucking l
Well, it's like the same in force awakens when um, they're tracking down, um bba and he's he's their ultimate objective
He's got uh this information that they need to secure and they send one squad of stormtroopers
and uh and two tie fighters
To track him down like you could send
Thousands upon thousands of troops and swarm the entire planet
But we need to give the the protagonists like a an easy way out
Of just like a small force that they can easily overcome and then get away from
Just again, just lazy bad writing you believe that like just to remelt my brain
Like they're they're assaulting a freighter class ship
With a force to imply
They want to get at them and they only send forks
They don't actually want to destroy them
And then when it comes to actually assaulting a full-on this is the largest capital ship in the history of the republic
I think that was said by somebody at some point the radis. Um,
They send four when they're legitimately trying to destroy it
What it does that not sum up the difference between the empire and the first order well
the
The only thing that comes to mind there is when they do go to try and destroy it when kylo
Rend leads the attack. Is that an unauthorized attack?
Perhaps like hux was not aware that he was going to do that. Well hux only calls him back because it's dangerous
Yeah, and I thought that played into that it's like you shouldn't even be there in the first place launching this attack
We didn't authorize this just come back. Why are they launching? Yeah, it's still it's still nonsense
but like my my takeaway from that scene was that kylo did it on his own initiative because he
Was angry and he wanted to prove himself
And it's funny because most people refer to kylo as one of the most inept members of the first order
But at least in that moment he showed some initiative
I mean if you if you see an opportunity
That is this
Golden that is this perfect
You you capitalize on that. Well, yeah, if you decide this is this isn't like it's one in a long series of moves
That will be that is part of a larger conflict like no, this is the final stroke that will secure
everything for you
I think it it's this idea that's uh, you know military commanders on a tactical level
They have to take the initiative a lot of the time exactly like poe did when he took on the dreadnought
You know
You don't always obey orders from higher up because they don't have the the kind of on the ground facts that you have
Yeah, and same thing funnily enough to initiative to echo civil war then why I love civil war it's like, um
If poe made those decisions then he was reprimanded you'd be like, why did you make those decisions?
It's like well, there's a lot of logical reasons why he made those decisions. Yes people died
But that's war and like it ultimately led to a a positive result to some degree like the wheel
He has to take responsibility for his actions. Ultimately though. I think they were absolutely the best actions he could take
um
Comparatively if we were all on the bridge and we'd found out we can track the enemy that's in one big ship
That's got 400 people on it. We're about to transport our entire three million man army
Onto them. What would you like to do as your first step?
Would you like to follow them slowly or would you like to obliterate them with our armies? It's like hmm
It's almost like if you see an enemy soldier standing in front of you and you have your sights trained right on him
And he's just standing there
And at any point you can pull the trigger and kill the enemy soldier and win the war and you just don't
And this comes back and then you might say well, I don't want the bullet to get hurt
This is cognitive dissonance and it kills immersion for such a huge portion of the audience. You're watching you're just like fuck me
I can't believe people are this stupid. This is impossible
It makes it even more interesting to think about is that we haven't even talked a single time
To my knowledge about them. Just sending a star destroyer in front of the radis
This is all based that we haven't even talked about the the obvious
It's funny. There's so many ways that tlj fucks up so many ways
I just I always loved the the not so great debate where you mentioned that to the
You know the guy you were debating and said to him look
Can you acknowledge that that's a flaw?
Because you could have just sent a bunch of star destroyers around and in front of the radis and cut them off at the pass
And he's like, yeah, okay. I finally I'll acknowledge that's a problem and you're like, okay
Well, the problem is the entire movie is predicated on that
Yeah
So that's like nothing. Yeah, nothing functions in the movie
You think that with like millions of people at their disposal one of them would say oh, wait, I have an idea
Oh, yeah, that's right
Warp drive exists. Just where are the stakes in your story if ever?
Well, yeah, that's the thing what generates stakes often is rules if you have no rules
Like well, fuck it like what I mean by rules is like star destroyers will
Use hyperdrive to their advantage. They will use weapons their advantage
They will use tie fighters their advantage
So you have to knock all of that out of your head in order for everything
Generally, you just assume that each side in a war wants to win the war and they will do things that will
Necessitate or help facilitate their victory
Unless it's the first order in which case like lol. I don't know we're in space
The whole overall problem with the first order is it it doesn't have any identity outside of it's a cheap knockoff of the empire
Yeah
Watching rewatching the ot the empire were badass
And they had structure they had an identity and it felt like a real military organization and the first order has no identity
They're not intimidating and they don't feel well structured
It feels like a bunch of children running around imitating the empire in a very bad way is what it feels like
They're like in the original battlefront games playing as a stormtrooper was cool
Their generals get in the way their generals get bitched slapped around with the force in front of their
Yes, that was a classic example of of the first order right there
Not something you do by the way, not something you do if you're gonna undermine the authority of your own people
That's a great way to be fair leah does slap poe in front of everyone too. So yeah, that's dumb
Their consistency is consistently bad on both ends with the with the rebellion
We'll see if this is the thing people might reference vader having killed people it's like no, no, no, no
He's knocking them out of order. Like he's basically saying these people are so shit. I'm gonna replace them
I kill them not humiliate them in front of the whole fucking team, but then allow them to continue
Right because when he kills somebody in front of the person the next the next man up
He's letting that guy know yeah, you're on your own short time if you if you fuck with me
I talked about that in my tfa part two
Which is quite a good then a good system of you know, punishment and reward almost
But in terms of like botched cloning that I talk about in part two of my tfa thing
There's like that seems to me like a botched clone. It's like vader killed people. So let's have
Snoke knock thingy around it's like you you don't understand you you've missed
Everything about why this is and not to mention that snow can use force powers to that degree
from
I I guess
He said
The guy well, I was about to say this this comes back to greedo saying where's the implication that snoke is powerful
It's like I don't know that that seems like it's a pretty amazing thing to be able to do. But what do I know?
Especially because when you think about it the distance between snoke's actual location and where hux is on the bridge
Could literally be dozens and dozens and dozens of kilometers. Yeah
Mm-hmm
We already know you can do force at any distance he fucking connected kylo and ray
well, I think it's it's even interesting to um, listen to um,
ryan johnson's take on what hux was as a character because
he
Listened to an interview with him when he was talking about it and he was like, yeah
I find hux kind of funny and I thought we'll just kind of make him the the comic relief
Um in this story and that's why he he gets you know
These comedy pratfalls where he gets his head slammed into the deck or you know, kylo ren kind of throws him across the room
um
But hux isn't really a comedy character when you see him in force awakens. He's a pretty serious officer
Well, even if you um take away the force awakens entirely
The idea that you want to turn the bad guy general into a joke
Is probably not a wise mood for setting up their potency or their efficiency
Isn't this kind of like symptomatic of us being disstar like all the edge is gone instead of kind of I kind of think so
Yeah, well, I remember reading solo
instead of instead of killing people, uh
Basically just skates them and turns into a slapstick gag
There were threads from I remember reading between people who loved the film
And there were people saying like oh, I kind of wish that uh, do you guys remember the the general at the beginning?
Who's like barking orders and he's standing tall. He's actually that's captain kennedy. Yeah, he's in game of thrones
He was like, um one of the wilder people or whatever outside in the in the in the reach
I think it was um people saying like I would have preferred if he was hux
It's like it's pretty obvious why because not only is he like he points out the stupid of the first order
He's like we should have released our fighters five minutes ago or something like that. He also when he's about to die
He just stands tall. He's like well, i'm dead i've been defeated as opposed to what what do you expect hux to do?
He's probably go. Oh, no, no, no, no, let's start crying and crawl away. You'll be like, huh. Yeah
The ridiculous age of the characters like hux is
No more than 30 years old by the looks of him and he's in control of the entire military
Whereas you go back to the original trilogy all of the senior commanders are guys in their 50s or 60s
They obviously had to rise up to that rank and it makes like actual generals who started at the bottom and worked their way up
Consider it would be like now if an admiral of the us navy was like 25 years old or something
Like it's it's ludicrous and you're like that couldn't ever be a storm trooper
No, and consider gram off target screen time and how much he's like the most people still remember him as like the best
non-force using empire unit
Well, and then the movie even acknowledges that
Outright say oh, you know a rabbit
Um can be quite a sharp tool and used properly or whatever. Right? Yeah, he's he's a useful idiot and the film acknowledges this
it's like
No, that's that's moronic. You don't make
A useful idiot the general he's not even a useful idiot though. What's the thing? Yeah, he's just an idiot
Useless useful idiot
People use that as a counter they're like, ha ha the film acknowledges that hux is incompetent
It's like why would you have someone incompetent as the general of your whole abhi?
Hey mauler in classic efap. Uh, I was only gonna come on for about 20 or 30 minutes and roast grido
And i'm here for almost two hours. So i'm gonna bounce and uh, you send me a link and I will definitely join you guys later
Oh use the same link you use the same. It'll be the same link
All right
It was pleasure being on here with all of you nice to meet some of you that i've met for the first time and uh,
Enjoy not roasting grido
Roasting oh man
Like I said, we we spent more than one and a half time of a normal podcast people run on youtube not talking about this video
Uh, we should just we should try and blast through this in one go and then talk about it at the end. Oh, yes
Yeah, I I often zika shot me a tweet and said it perfectly
The last jedi is a subverting experience and sort of a meta mirror to the star wars craze
We want epic resolutions to things we find epic, right when we think something is of great importance
We expect an equally epic moment of closure the last jedi
Well, I mean this you could say that in a in the sense you have the um, the soviet union
Obviously the ussr was perhaps a fairly epic and powerful force in the world. It clearly was
But its end was almost subtle disappointing in a sense
It was if like if the ussr was a movie villain
Then the way that it was defeated would probably be seen as not epic
But that's where things like drama and characters and focus of stories might come in
If you're going to make a movie based around the fall of the soviet union
Then it would have to rely heavily on the drama surrounding certain characters and politics and things like that
And so if he's going to go on the idea that well, maybe there aren't epic ends to seemingly epic things
Like well, you're going to have to make those ends compelling in some other alternative way that makes sense
It reminds the audience that they are not in control
I've been reading a lot of comments and hearing a lot of people on podcasts and whatnot say stuff like
You haven't been reading and you haven't been watching podcast bullshit
I think he got comments on his videos being like atlj shit though, and he's like no
Meta mirror
Snoke was this super powerful being and he was supposed to be one of the most powerful force wielders ever and now he's just dead
Wait, who said he was this super powerful dude? Why do you think that did you hear that on youtube?
Maybe don't read too deep into things
Maybe don't build up the epicness of a character when you don't know anything about said character
Same goes with the lightsaber that luke chucks over his shoulder. We
All right, he said he said we don't know anything about snoke
I
Want to clarify we we know quite a bit we know that he's the reason that um kylo turned to the dark side
Because leah said snoke got to him first
We know that he rose the first order from the empire
We know that he destroyed the jedi essentially like he quelled luke skywalker's attempts to reignite the jedi
And he's the reason the republic have been destroyed
And we know he's he's able to use force powers to an extent that killed luke skywalker after just you know a couple of minutes
Yeah, i'd say that's a lot of information when you
Yeah, yeah
He put a lot of importance on that lightsaber when it comes to the mythology of star wars
That lightsaber is the holy grail to us
It is a sacred relic passed down generation a generation
But to a character who actually wielded it is just a thing. I think no, um, so why would it just be a thing?
For him, you know
How i was saying that the kid was privy to information that we we have even though he shouldn't be
This is an example of the opposite
The luke was given that lightsaber by obi-wan and it was owned by his father
For one of if not the most important object in the universe to luke
Yeah
I've seen arguments. It's like hey, man, this this lightsaber was used to kill yugligs. Of course luke told again. It's like um
I don't know that's nonsense
I don't know about that
There's no i mean if if all you were trying to accomplish in the script was to have him
You know refuse to accept it
You could have had him
You know hand it back or throw it away in dramatic fashion
Like he really contemplates it for a minute and then decides like he's not going to take up that that weapon again
That's fine
But to have him just throw it over his shoulder like it means nothing is it's awkward in doing that
I've always thought that the the easy fix is to have it slowly drop out of his hands
All to the floor. I think it would be way more effective too
Yep, and it wouldn't it wouldn't come up as you know, like a like a joke
And make it look like luke didn't necessarily deliberately drop it even have him react to it sort of like oh fuck
That's that's what that is. I would have loved to is if he ignited it and then pointed out a ray and said
Who the hell are you and why are you here?
I think it would have been more in keeping with the mindset he had at that point of like
Wanting to to shut himself away from everything. What happened to his green lightsaber?
It died of shame
Well, what's interesting too is that if you come if you go here
To the most unfindable place in the galaxy or whatever bullshit and someone just shows up with your lightsaber
I'm like i'm not just going to throw it away and walk away
Like someone went through a huge amount of effort to get here despite my best attempts
Yeah
And anyway, like it does he think that like if he just throws it away and then walks off she's going to be like
Oh, well, I tried. I guess you didn't want to chat. Oh, well
Yeah, like obviously he knows that like she's
He's outraged that ray doesn't realize he came there to die
I saw that like that hasn't quite sunk in for me. Still luke skywalker ran off after his
His best friend's sister's son went nuts to go and die
Okay. Yeah. All right. That's luke skywalker. That's totally luke skywalker
Yeah, but he was ready to die
But the um the green milk seaco things saved him and he realized that he had to live on for them
Spiritual nourishment price like it's of the space bar
I'd want to you know, like if I was ray, I don't want to like slap luke be like shut the fuck up
What the hell are you talking about? Wait, what do you mean came you to die? Who the fuck are you?
Wake the fuck up. Where's who are you and where's the real luke?
Jesus christ. Well, actually if I was ray, okay, I would have just left I wouldn't need his help ray can just dominate
Yeah, if I was ray i'd be like, oh I can literally not fail the universe will bend itself towards my success
the scene that always stuck with me was the um
The scene where he finally kind of has to talk to her and uh, he keeps asking who she is and her first response is i'm with
the resistance
Not like my name is ray and I came from this planet and uh,
I found this lightsaber and i've been through all this shit and i've come here to find you it's like
just the most bland like
In
Useless statement that you can make. I thought it was one of the most self-aware moments of the film in the you'd be like
Why did you come here ray? And she'd be like, uh, it's not that's not in the script
There's no reason i'm here
I actually don't have any of this motivation that you speak of. Yeah, why am I here? No idea. I do not know
I I don't know
I've got this map thing. It said you were important. So like, you know, here I am
I wanted to leave and get off jacou and the moment that I could go anywhere in the galaxy
I wanted I just bummed around with these resistance guys and
You know, they're all right with slavery layer is like ah the map to my disgruntled disgraced brother
Who was supposed to lead the universe into a new world and has gone off to die
Here you go random stranger. Go and say hello to him
What yeah?
We've been looking for him for years now, but you just showed up. You're some girl who showed up. I mean you go do it
It's weird. Hey this character that has no ties to anyone. Um, just instantly gets liked and respected by by everybody
It's almost like that's the hallmarks of a particular archetype
In in white savior. I think it's called a ryan. Craig
Yeah, it's a gary stu or something. I think a mitchell jimson really weird
Connected with a time he wants to escape
Important to you not important to luke i've heard a bunch of people say it's so uncharacteristic
Or that's not the luke skywalker. I know it's not necessarily that it's important to us
It's that luke is important to us
And so that would carry along with it all of his motivations and the reasons for why he's doing everything he's doing
Or luke wouldn't act like that. Really really it's been 30 years since return of the jedi 30 years
I hate this fucking argument that something must have changed with those 30 years like yeah. Well, we need to see it
He's old
Yeah, that's it's just the not so great debate guy coming back again, but he's old. I literally just said don't say because he's old
Let's do a tiny little incy weensy thought exercise
Imagine you could see yourself in 30 years
And you didn't recognize yourself. You were completely different in every imaginable way
You had turned into something that you couldn't even fathom you'd recognize
Don't you think that you would be owed an explanation?
You're like you'd be you'd be terrified like what the hell
happens in the 30-year gap
where you know a 55 year old me or whatever
is
Just turned into some
Shell some husk like what tragedy?
Befell me that would cause this
It's a very simple explanation that kind of
Echoes their own point. It like reflects upon them. So
Their their argument is oh, he's old stuff must have happened. It's like, okay. You remember how um
Mark hammer refers to him as jake skywalker
So why is it that we can't just go in episode five of the ot?
That's that's luke in the next episode luke is just chubaka
That's luke now
Well, it's been some time. It's like what do you what the fuck do you mean?
Well, that's just luke now stuff has happened between then and then it's like why why can't every character be every character
Oh, well because characters have certain restrictions based on what they want what they value who they are
We can't just interchange them. So jake skywalker can't be luke skywalker
You just can't do that
If there was an ot between these two trilogies that explain the entire journey, which I think is actually possible
It could be very fucking interesting
Then we we'd have a different perspective, but you just skipped it
Well, and the same argument can be made the the first film in the ot trilogy just has luke see his parents die
He's really upset and then he hit credits and then the the beginning of the next film begins with him fighting vader
We'd be like, whoa, what the fuck?
How did that happen? It's like dude, it's been like eight years things have changed
Okay
You're right things have changed I just sorry it just seems different to me
Could you imagine like a lord of the rings sequel it takes place like 30 years and
And then they reveal that samwise gamgee molests his nephews or some shit
And you're like it's it's been four years. He's changed. Fuck his vegetables. Oh, sam
Now you used to parable the parsnips sam what happened
Well, I mean he's old
He's old. Well, it's been 30 years, you know people change
Like yeah in 30 years come back to this video and tell me that you're still the same person
Because that's the argument we're making nobody changes over 30 years
That's why everyone's been saying luke shouldn't change because nobody changes over 30 years. Fuck off
Hi this argument
people
The idea here is that people improve over time we get wiser we get more intelligent all of the experiences that we've garnered
Impact us and help us to grow and become better people
Not we just flip into a completely alien thing. That's worse in practically every way
I mean that's a tragedy when that happens and one that I think we should be owed an explanation
Oh
I'm not the same person. I was a week ago. We change we evolve. So why do some folks want the characters?
All right. I don't know if you want to brag about that
I'm actually pretty convinced that he hasn't changed since the last week because he's still doing his bullshit petty sniping on twitter
He means he wore a different mask a week ago
Yeah, he was greedy a week ago
It's just like yeah, you're not the exact same person you were a week ago
But you were probably very very close
You're not unrecognizable, you know
Yeah, it's not like you would you would look at yourself from a week ago and thank god. I was so different back then
Oh, that's a week ago. Can you believe seven days have passed?
I'm I murdered someone a week ago, but thankfully i'm not that person anymore. But now i'm so different i've changed
Apparently doomcock wants him
Oh, fuck. Yeah. All right. Um, let us well, I swear to god. We'll get to the end of this quickly
Okay, and then i'll sort that out. I swear to god
They love especially characters in an ever-changing saga to remain a snapshot of their former selves
We should all want the characters we love to be a layer cake not
So, how does he argue
Unironically that we want characters to stay the same when luke's journey in the ot is specifically about how he changes from x to y
I guess they think that we want him
To go through that and then stay exactly as he ended up because that's what we liked. Okay with that simple-minded
Thank you. Hello. Greedo. I yeah, I guess
Unbendable unbreakable never-changing statues. Oh, you think this is uncharacteristic of me mr
Audience member go write some fan fiction where I think what?
What do you what do you think tlj is? Hello greedo is fucking fan fiction
I'm really intrigued to get onto this bit because I think this is this is his killer point in this whole argument is like
What actually works about the last jedi for him god?
Del's is in debasing what we know
Lessening the importance of what we all think is important or the way we all think things this guy's like a shitty logic
Fuck is he even saying?
So like he thinks it's great because it didn't do the things that we thought were important
So that makes it clever and smart and a great movie
No, like see you guys what's his argument?
That's the that's what he can unload all of the criticism off on the whole thing with captain marvel
You just hate women we can take everything that you've said
Disregarded and just throw it on the heap of the wagon that is up. You just didn't get what you wanted
We don't have to deal with your criticisms
Blah blah blah. This is part of the reason why i'd love hella greedo's actually
Come on to this
I think it was like this is why I drink jesus exactly
This is why I kind of want him to come on to efap because this wouldn't hold up in like five
Just watch the fucking major league debate watch how these arguments hold up
Should or could go no luke doesn't have to act the way you want him to no
Stop saying that. I just want ray to be a human
Only what is luke to be luke. I don't care what luke does as long as he's luke
Ray doesn't have to be what you want her to be no
What is externally important to you is not internally important to the characters. What is important to the character?
Fucking trilly. What what do they give a shit about and why?
What is important to the characters is?
A logical progression from the last time we saw them to what they are now
That is that is important to anyone who values good screenwriting. Absolutely
Does anyone disagree that characters should behave as they are portrayed?
Is there anyone on this planet that disagrees with that?
Except for when apparently they've aged 30 years because you could do anything that that's something i'd love to ask hella greedo
could we have luke literally just
Be naked flying through the universe. Could I be like well, he's old
Old imagine your parents, you know, imagine one of your parents goes missing for 30 years
You have no idea what happens to them. They're missing totally gone about a trace and then
After arduous searching you finally found them and they're unrecognizable
Wouldn't you want an explanation? I mean obviously it's possible that they've turned into essentially a completely different person
You don't recognize in any way
But you obviously would want an explanation like what happened to turn you into this
Absolutely
This is it's the same thing just with a character in fiction instead of your parent
same thing
How much emphasis on things projecting what we love what we find important into what we think the story should find important
So what should the story find important then? Is there any rule to that or is it just anything?
Yeah
We don't even have to be objective here. You can just ask him. What do you think a good story is good? What's a good?
You know attribute of a well-written story go what your what your ideal story the best stories. What do you think they should have?
You just start bullet points logical progression of events believable outcomes stakes consistent rules
Yada, yada. Yada. Also. Yeah, so if people here is
Doomcock is interested in joining in 30 minutes from now
And psa sitch is also interested in joining. All right, and we've got shad coming in any moment and uh,
They long bonus apparently evaporated. I don't know what happened
Oh, yeah
But rags you send a random. I think I'll find your missing parent not a relative. He knows, right?
I think i'll probably um go out i'll drop out about 30 minutes from now if that's cool with you guys. Absolutely fine
It's okay
I'm sure in that time we'll get to the end of this fucking video. We're nearly there. We've got like 20 seconds. We're almost there
It doesn't matter what we want
It doesn't matter what the hell we think is important and the last jedi holds that fact up to our faces. Perfect. Uh
No, i'm sorry. That was that was does matter what you consider him
That was three minutes 51 seconds of absolutely fucking nothing
Shadaversity not shad man chat shadaversity shad man. Come on in
Yeah, no greedo you're wrong hello greedo out we did it
Oh, that's well he hadn't finished yet now he has
You should probably fix that flag before you wave it around
It's kind of disrespectful to let a flag fly with that kind of disrepair right? Yeah. Why is it all tattered?
That what does that mean in america does that mean disrespects of the president taking care of the symbol of our country
Which you should because it's the greatest goddamn country in the fucking galaxy
You take care of that flag. Hello. Greedo means a lot. There's a couple of other ones in the galaxy that I think are neat
I'm not saying it's bad. I'm saying the flag
The flag doesn't need to be what you want it to be rags. Yeah racist
All right, it is odd though. What is there deeper themes in this in this little segment?
It is kind of ironic that you have like especially
In this still right here that I can clip and paste already because light shots amazing, but just isn't hmm. That's just an interesting
It's just interesting
Well, you mean everything you think is important is not important
There's a picture of a fucking american flag being told to shreds for some reason
It just has it does have an interesting connotation. I don't know about I don't know if has any meta narrative to it
I'm saying
Well, if I was gonna go for my video and make like here is me being patriotic and everything I wouldn't find I wouldn't take some
Old dusty ass shitty looking flag and be like no, I want this good. Well repaired well maintained
It's me just just just point i'm very picture up
I can tell rex. He of course has the right to fly whatever flag he wants, of course
Just take care of your flag maybe I mean you have it maybe take care of it
Oh, right, I gotta uh
All right, i'm knocking out j and
Eo, sorry i'll send these invites back and I have to some reason there's a 10 member cap on on discord
I didn't know that
I am I am disturbed by this outraged even
All right. So we've got rags
And i'm sorry not rags, uh, fuck we got sit shad
And who else is coming?
Yeah, the I know that gary wants to come on at some point as well, so we we'll be cycling don't worry
We we have we have room. I think right now
Um, well, like I said, we'll just play it as it comes
Okay, well, I mean I can I can bounce out whenever and
Rags the flags too much all night. So
Hello new person
Hey now, oh god
You made a video that was critical of um star wars the fuck
What am I not is that your territory? No
What do you mean I said I said that they handled luke perfectly you you made all this nonsense with oh
They didn't handle him perfectly. What the fuck's that about? I know like I know his horrible nitpicks
I'm just god, like I think what we learned from the past video is that the movie doesn't care about our criticism
Yeah, we we doesn't care then. Why should we care the movie cares about what's important? We don't okay
the important themes of um of
What were the themes again? I don't remember badness
bad
Failure failing to write a screenplay
The themes are did you want an enjoyable movie? Well consider your expectations subverted
Christ so this is the darkest timeline
Sitch has uh, the last jedi on his brain because he made a video true
It's everywhere it came back I don't know what happened that is the video we're probably gonna cover next
I don't know whether or not I should wait for doom cock or if I should
Uh, just banter for a bit what you reckon guys?
Um, we gotta fill 24 hours no, I mean
I just mean for the next like 10 minutes
From like 10 minutes. Yeah, well we can discuss for 10 minutes. This is efap
We can discuss for we let chat decide whatever we will do whatever we just said the most shall be our discussion topic
Banter we now we've got we got a few banters in the chat. We got a baowin. We got a ryan doesn't care
Um, we've got we've got um old spider-man is better than old luke
The themes definitely means we got banter zelda. We got a zelda. We got a a potato. We got a potato in chat
potato
Well, what can we say about abortion? Why does somebody say abortion?
Well combine abortion and potato
In gully invite greedo, I don't think he'd come on we'd happily have him here
Oh god, could you imagine greedo coming on?
The second he says anything the five of us who are also audio be like
Dog pile him
We're wrong for many reasons
Um, I love me a good dog pile not gonna lie makes sense. It's consistent with your character
Yeah character in court. I do have a reputation to keep
You mean so i've got a tab ready for the meat
It's intense would be the word i'd use having a blast and eating it
I never said that
You're putting words in my mouth among other things
You're making tisms in my splisms
Have you been doing ass subjectively or objectively the middle one? Oh objective ass
But I know how it makes me feel
Hey
What are we going to talk about for the next 10 minutes? Um
We can talk about eating ass for 10 minutes. Well, I was actually going to say so
Psa sitch slash critical drinker. Do you guys know each other at all?
No, I don't believe we do. No, well, hi critical drinker. Hi psa. How are you doing this evening?
I'm doing good
Psa sitch jay longbone. Do you guys know each other?
I know of her photos on twitter
Oh say hello to each other if that brings people together
Jay jay longbone you've been very quiet on this chat so far in fairness
I think we've been very nerdy like with talking about the amount of units within a star destroyer. I feel like what the fuck
Ships were inside the hangar bay of the stardestroyer. Well, you mean that's not something that everyone wants to know dude
Listen that was a fascinating discussion when you actually consider the ramifications of the scale they've created for their story
There are two and a quarter million people
Guys I don't think we're gonna win
Who would win two and a quarter million four hundred
It's like it's like space
Uh, well the sparks did it with like a hundred less than that. So yeah
Maybe maybe if we pull a maneuver out of our ass that makes no sense and damages every film that came before us
Well, if the if the raddest can funnel the supremacy and the fifteen star destroyers
Into a small mountain pass and come in one at a time. They might have a chance. Yeah, the space chasm
You haven't heard of those the space chasm
Oh, they can know they can pull them into the the the kessel thingy from solo
They're gonna come in one at a time. You just crush the entire fleet in like oh no a lovecraft monster
Um
Yeah, I mean there's no harm in starting up the next one if you guys it's all it's it's startles again
But this one should be funnier. Um
Because hella greeter is awful. I mean hella greeter is different from uh,
When we just covered I want to put that in our our done section is horrifically
Limited we've done four videos over
10 hours
Well, we we need to get focused on this one
How many did you prepare for this mind power we can get through this right?
Uh psa stitch there is a link to watch together in the in the group you are now in if you can find that
Join us
Guys, do you need to refresh to get a new video up or does it just come up? No, it'll it should just work
Oh, uh, ooh, it looks like shadiversity is ready
Some guys
I just want to point out that hella greeter is streaming on minecraft right now. Oh leave below
People are going into his chat i'm reading them there's a guy saying debate they hate bonkers
Honestly
Not only would he be welcome to come on we would treat him very civilly absolutely slice and dice brothers
Um
Right, I was gonna say shad's gonna jump on so i'm afraid in terms of rotation southpaw
I think it's time for you to uh exit but it's been yes, indeed in a laugh riot. So
It has been great to talk to you, man. And uh, yes, i'm glad your mom enjoyed my videos
I'm very glad that she enjoyed your video. It's been it's been great
But um, i'm gonna be available for the rest of the night. So if you ever got filled in, uh, let me know
I will say knows what'll happen. All righty. Well, let's
Does that mean critical is your new stepfather? Oh he left
A drunken stepfather. Welcome shadiversity. How'd you do? Hey, how is everyone? Good to see his old
This rotation thing's working out a lot better than I expected
Because if we if we lose critical drinker soon ish and gain doom cock
We'll have a whole like thing going where it's just all kinds of different personalities clashing and meeting
That's exactly what I was gunning for
We bring people together
While ripping their content apart
Bringing people together through hatred. Yes
Is the importance of doing people really? Oh god. I'm gonna I want to take this to singapore. So
I feel like
What's weird is that as divisive as the last bit I was it really was a force of
Bringing people together jump-starting careers
Creating whole groups of support. I mean hell I've made a shit ton of friends. Thanks to the last day. Thank you. Ryan
Thank you so much
I'm glad you're terrible at what you do. Yeah, no, it would be terrible. Imagine he was good at it. Jesus
Where would we be? Me and rax made out of magic
I should give a shout out to captain marvel as well. That gave me lots of opportunities in youtube. So
Thank you. Captain marvel for being shit. Apparently greedo said welcome toxic brood
Again if
Be nice to him and if he shows any interest in actually having chat with us. He's open to it
Maybe it'll be all right. Like remember the the doom sausage guy. Yeah
He was he was like the nicest guy ever. Absolutely. It could work out the doom sausage
Um shad have you got access to the watch together link in the in the discussion thing?
Oh, yeah, just click on that and we're going to be covering a video that I think everyone here has actually got some interest in
the title
Of the video that we're going to be covering is ray is not a mary sue
Interesting it's genius, sir
And I haven't uh, yeah, I haven't like
What's the weird I've had a bit to drink, um
Proofs I have I haven't guinea pig. Um, when you when you want to check if someone is is good for the job
What is the word you use? You say like you you have that that's it. I haven't vetted this video
So I don't know what to expect
I just i'm going from the title of it alone. Um, is it is it loaded up for everybody?
It shows like hands you've seen hands
Yeah, I got it. Excellent. Here we go
That sigh says everything
Yeah, the hand is putting the the film and the projector thing is so yeah
I'm going to see pretentiousness here. Look at the capitalization of the title
Star wars why ray is a mary sue
Gotta hit that algorithm, uh somehow. I don't know if that helps
Some idiot at youtube decided you know what we're gonna use
What words you capitalize in your title to determine your place of the algorithm for being recommended to people and everyone else at the table
Is like fucking I don't even know if that's how it works. You might have just done it as a hope that that's how it works
No, I know. Well, i've heard it is that's why um
That's why the quartering uh does it in his vids and his descriptions are like in every word is capitalized and stuff like that
He says his hopes on the algorithm secrets. They're releasing the trade secrets
Ooh, I if I knew the fucking trade secrets you think
You think i'd be where I am
Like how'd you make your videos so popular is I don't fucking know if I knew that I'd do it every time
I think that's how everyone feels about the algorithm. They're like, I don't know it worked. I don't know how
It's it's here's is does youtube like your face
They probably don't so yeah, I don't know man
What's up guys i'm jacob i'm glad you made that text
I definitely don't because I don't like to see people's faces when we're having a greeting
Wait, what are you? What are you for?
What do you mean?
No, no, no, no. Listen, everyone must look away. Never look at me. Someone wear a mask. Um
Say their name
Then I want to make sure that I don't see their face until they're done with the greeting in their introduction
Then I want to see their face
Why it's so weird. No, I don't
That's the point i'm trying to say this is weird to start a video out. No, no i'm saying you're
I know i'm weird
But i've no i'm trying to illustrate that it's weird for people to do that
I would I that's what I don't actually think that i'm sub i've subverted your expectations. I see I see
I'm highlighting how it worked just in a way that I didn't intend that it's weird for people to do this
Their video and today we're going to be talking about star wars because
Well, it was the series that inspired me to want to see with a disappearing knife
Yeah, don't yeah
Recommendation for anybody who's defending the film don't show that clip in your video ever
How depressing would it be if star wars inspired you to write stories and then this is what you have to deal with
Well, it depends which side
Has this uh, that's what I mean like it's the original
Has this chap gone into great success in the whole storytelling field? Like is he now?
Is he using an author using tlj as like a jumping off point? I seriously doubt it
That's just my opinion. I mean I I have lots of form rejections from agents everywhere
We're gonna say something go ahead show the scene
Oh that yeah, I was just wondering uh, depending which star wars he was inspired by
I think shad likes this scene because
Because these alex I will explain I have a reason much like I have for everything that I believe
So in this scene a lot of red swords and when I look at shad's icon
I don't know
I'm getting a little get I don't know the
The red hued weaponry
As they say down south, you know, I remember if i've asked you this before shad but you saw tlj in the cinema, right?
I did. So what what were you feeling when you saw this scene for the first time?
I wasn't paying attention
Not paying attention to your grandiose fight scene your melee fight
That's like the yeah, right. We'll probably call it the crescendo of the whole film
That fight building up and exploding at the end. I know
Were you still recovering from the whole snook thing?
There was so much dumb happening and I generally
Tried to enjoy it. I turned my brain off and I tried to enjoy it
Like even with the last jedi there were so many potholes going on where I was like, it was it was too hard to
Uh not notice with their fight scene itself though, because there's a lot of movement happening and it's really quickly
I didn't pick up on a lot of the horrible mistakes until I paid attention to it and I look closer and i'm like
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hang on
Hang on
And then it just turns out it's like one of the worst fight scenes
Ever and I think I think that's fair like it is one of those scenes that can just you know
Wash over you and it's gone before you really have a time to think about it
Exactly. And and when you're not paying attention, it's a lot of flashy movement. You can be like, oh, yeah, i'm into it
This is cool. It's a bit hollywood kung fui and then you actually look at these specific moves and the fact that
Daisy ridley and the other guy they're out of sync to the other guys and they're missing their marks and they're hitting wrong and then
They're out of time and then there's they should have died in many places and the blade disappearing and you're just like
Oh my goodness
Yeah, look, this is a million dollar multi-million dollar movie. You expect them to take multiple takes of action shots
People unironically say like well in fitness. It was all like one take for a portion of it. It's like, okay, but
Keeping the camera on it's not something to celebrate if you're recording dog shit
Oh, yeah. Well, this is my oh, yeah. Well, it was my first draft
Oh, yeah, well, oh, yeah, well i'm retarded so
Yeah, if you think this is this is the best of what they were able to produce as well like i would love to see the worst
Like all the blown takes
Apparently hello greedo is asking what the fuck is going on again. People don't don't do anything mean cruel or raid like
Just be friendly or leave him alone because I don't want to I don't know is he coming in?
No, I don't think so. He's just apparently he's really confused in his own stream right now
Let him mind diamonds in peace send him messages of love. Okay
He's not mining for boulders is he?
A super chat a day keeps the creepers away
truth from the source fucking kill me
Wars because
Well, it was the series that inspired me to want to tell stories of my own and to be honest with you
I just feel like why don't you just turn the lightsaber around as if that thing touches him. He's dead
What's the thing that she could literally turn it off flip it in your own hand turn it back on?
I know like like she's just holding the lightsaber there. She cut through his
If she just rotated her wrist 90 degrees and then back he she hits him in the head
But she's just holding it there like like it's doing nothing
I'm glad this
I love how she's just looking at it there. Like she just doesn't have a fuck to give
That is ray throughout all of the films ray never has a fuck to give
I can't believe this mortal is trying to kill me
It's like oh, I suppose i'm gonna have to do stuff to get out of this now
Like i've never talked about star wars as much as i've wanted to in your past
You brought up the hole if so if you are straining to keep somebody
From slicing your face hole with a bladed weapon and you just let go
What's gonna happen to their weapon? It's gonna stay exactly where it is. Of course
You know when she dropped her lightsaber, he's like, oh this is the part of the fight where we drop our weapons and back away
Yeah, did she just let go of her like ray that's not fair I dropped my weapon why didn't you drop your
combat works
You bespoke the honor of the fight we spend like you just have one person on a door
Just shoving the door and then you open it. You all of a sudden open it from the other side and see what happens
Apparently apparently hello greedo just said will somebody please explain the rhino milk thing to me
Oh that is that is among the deepest of allures that's beautiful, uh
In case he pulls up the street. Hello greedo. Hey look, you could just say his name and it's a great thing
Uh, huh?
Peace and rhino milk to you. Hello. Hello greedo peace and rhino milk to you. So
Uh, yeah, I was gonna say though we spent near like an hour and a half
Solely going on tangents about how dumb it is about the supremacy the star destroy stuff if we start talking about this scene
We will lose our minds. Uh, by the way robot head
Robot head is interested in coming on eventually too
And it's just like he's made a whole video just about this scene and how fucking dumb it is
It is it tlj is an infinite mind of like movie criticism. It's just the perfect thing
Like I said, I stand by the fact that I want it taught in schools
I would like it because it would give a lot of people ideas on how to avoid pitfalls when it comes to writing or even
execution of writing
Like taking the thing you have planned and ruining it regardless of what it was
That's with you. I just feel like i've never talked about star wars as much as i've wanted
Yeah, he literally let her go
I did not notice the edit in there the way he just completely changed his position from one shot to the other
But it's it's feels it doesn't craftsmanship doesn't matter when it comes to feels dude
Fuck man. I feel like i'm getting dumber by the second. Just watching this
I love the inconsistency of how effective that armor is. I mean, yeah, it stops it when it's convenient to stop it
But when it's time to die, it's useless. It does nothing right? Yeah, because it blocks
Doesn't kylo's lightsaber
Doesn't kylo's lightsaber block up against her? Yeah, like one guy uses his arms to block a full hit from kylo's lightsaber
And so that should establish already that it can resist the first few hits of a lightsaber. No, you have to believe
What I will believe
What I will say is it does look like it's between it looks like it's the neck you could argue is between two parts of the armor
The armor is red and kylo's light saber is red. Obviously. Oh, yeah
If they had blue armor they could his name baby's fist lightsaber explanations like red bad
rpg armor where it's just like it applies a percentage chance to block an enemy hit
Oh, there you go. He had a good roll against kylo. Yeah, he rolled poorly with ray here, which is why both his knife disappeared
Uh, you rolled a one your weapon disappears your weapon fades from existence
Your knife evaporates
By the way, I can just picture if ryan johnson ever listened to a podcast like this you should be crowded like fuck you guys
I worked really hard on this
Hey
You know if you're lying, I bet what do you say?
It's funny. He's sticking up
I bet ryan johnson is probably the nicest person in the world
He like, you know saves baby seals and gives all this money to the poor and everything like this
It's probably you see they're like thinking
I tried
I feel sorry for the guy
Oh man, I don't by the way
I just want to highlight that he's talking about something that we've not really addressed jax. He hasn't necessarily made a point just yet
But with background footage, we've already explored like a shit ton of things. He's not even brought up the guy who made this video
I only wanted b-roll footage to my commentary. I wasn't trying to
You can't even find b-roll that you can't criticize
That's how bad you'll change it
In the past in that's kind of you doing okay kylo established force user i've
Just been here take this of the series my whole life
And today we're going to be talking about the sequel trilogy. What if he turned the lightsaber on and it shed it out the other way
Like gives an awkward look to the guy holding him and he's like, oh give me a sec
Okay
Or hate it i've got some thoughts on it and just kind of look another scene where she's American
What are you doing? Are you is this on purpose? Why are you fucking with us?
I love this idea that you can you can you know
Fix and reconfigure complex spaceships just by ripping out circuit boards
Like that's how smart she is
She is that intelligent
I'm just like next time my car doesn't start i'm just gonna like rip a random like fuse box out
Oh, hey the millennium falcon I was here for five minutes once. Oh, hey a spark plug. Let's rip that out
Some twitter the other day this surely can't be attached to the ship for a reason
I figured talking about this in a video might be a good format because I could explain my story more
And maybe even bring up some things I didn't talk about on twitter. This is every it's a cataclysm. Everything is wrong
It's like
What are you saying i'm just criticizing this film it's just the footage is funny
Oh, wait, wait, wait bb8 has a hal 9000. I that's that's a positive. There we go. We've drawn a positive
I never noticed. I just wanted to kick him
Just like get you know, line up bb8 and just do this massive boot
No, he's like the only consistent character in this fucking franchise. Don't you dare kill bb8
Like it's a ball. You just want to kick balls. Yeah, it's fair. It's our precious only good character
I mean bb8 is almost a very suit too. He fucking has a machine gun in his
Chest he can operate atst's
Fucking everybody loves that guy. The empire doesn't even arrest him. The empire is just like oh, it's bba. This one
I love that bit by the way
He just they they they do the ambush in tlj and bb8 just fucking rolls off to the side and just he's got the box
I was just fine. He's like don't notice me. Like what the fuck? He was the reason that they got found. He was scammed
Crisis film he isn't he isn't that consistent. He literally turns into a weapon. How is that not consistent?
Some things I didn't talk about on twitter because
I'm just kind of limited on that website. That being said let's just hop right into it and talk about why ray
Isn't a mary sue and why she's actually kind of an amazing character. Oh, no
Oh, no, not even why she isn't a mary sue why she's an amazing character
So amazing that I can't explain her abilities through any kind of rational means so
I see so the way you start with this is you define mary sue and then if he's defined it in a way that we're not
All familiar with he might have an argument, but it doesn't leave it look like he's gonna try that
Yeah, it's interesting. Like I think the character had potential it's in execution that they failed
They didn't explain why she was so good at all these different things and like because I don't mind the idea of a prodigy
Like I think the idea of like this
Unknown prodigy character archetype can actually be really good if it's executed
Right. And one of the ways that you do, you know balance it out is by giving him some pretty big
weaknesses and failings in character
Physically if they made her like feral, you know, she's been living alone on some desert planet
Like make her really fucked up. No, that's how you become extremely charismatic and likable to everybody when your cause
About people who want to beat you up and nobody wants to talk to you ever
That's true
When i'm sitting alone in my my room and i'm scratching little marks on the wall because I live by myself for years and years
I become the most social person on the planet. Yeah, it also you also do that by being a storm trooper from birth
Yeah, oh my god. No ptsd there
You're the most grinning and ass
I love how you started to say that you tried to
Fail from it. Then you'll have stuff. It's too late. It's okay. She's female and black. She has double passes for this
Oh, come on. No one looks at finn and thinks oh, that's a smiling negro right there. It's
Ridiculous
He describes his childhood you're like why why
A fucking murderer. I'm a brainwashed soldier trained
Terrified does he know
Nothing about it makes any sense nothing about finn makes any sense at all
It's hilarious too because if if there was no female strong female wellman protagonist if finn was a if ray was a man
Everyone would complain that this movie is racist. I mean you got the
Stereotypical comedic minstrel black sidekick who's like inferior to the white, uh hero
Yeah, she's female. So like you you got see that's that's that's a trend i've been noticing
He steals a jacket. He tries to steal an escape pod
exactly
A trend i've been noticing they kind of like downplay
Black male characters if they're next to a female like a white female
Like we need her to be stronger and black men are just kind of a little too. Uh, what's the word? Uh,
Aggressive uppity. Yeah aggressive. Yeah, this is the thing
There's a pyramid pyramid of oppression, you know, yeah, I was gonna say females outrank black right female
Is it three points for female two points for black? I can't remember. I have to check the booklet. It's close
but if you're
Imagine imagine drac's imagine his personality in finn's body for the trilogy. Oh my god
They'd be amazing fucking wonderful. I know it would like that would kind of like work
Yeah, or or put someone like john wick in finn
Where he's actually really efficient at his job
He knows the ins and outs of the first order and he just wants to live he's tired of killing people
But then you can't have that because that'd be a character that'd be a bit threatening towards the female and uh, it's not allowed
Yeah, you can't have that. Yeah, or or you can
Yeah, or you can use uh for a model for finn like
Kurt russell's character from soldier because that's what when I that's what I envisioned when I when I think of
How finn came up like he's completely desensitized
Yeah, yeah, that would make sense
I'm gonna guess that rags does not know that movie
Yeah, yeah, it's great. It's well, I don't I don't know
I've seen it. Oh, okay. Maybe it's not
I remember it's either the best movie i've ever seen or I don't remember because it's bad
It's pretty good
I don't even know anymore
I don't even know anymore. Did you what well i'll tell you what you do know you do know
I remember ray wasn't in it ray is the best character and uh, she's a great character
And also
As we learned from the previous video the soldier doesn't care whether you liked it or not. It doesn't have
Opinions on that's just the ultimate argument against everything doesn't care
It just doesn't care movie doesn't care what your issues with it. It doesn't fucking care
The inanimate object doesn't care about you
I can't know
Oh, here we go definition an idealized and seemingly perfect fictional character often
This character is recognized as an author insert or wish fulfillment
Now i've agreed that the second portion of the standard definition of mary suit doesn't necessarily apply to ray
I don't know that jj abram sees himself as ray or anything like that
However, what are you a transphobe?
Yes, the first portion is absolutely applicable to ray
Yeah, the the second portion is kind of a tribute and motivation for creating the character in the first place
But the first part of the actual definition
Yes, most people probably don't even I think no one or use the second definition. I think she's an audience insert not a
I don't think it has anything to do with the creators more like that's yeah
Blank sleep for the audience
I agree there. I was thinking the wish fulfillment part of ray is to try and make her super, you know, perfect
but basically
Well, they were attempting to make star wars more palatable to a female audience
And that's the wish fulfillment kind of thing like this is you could you know stuff?
JJ's admitted that um, like the the falcon sequence in tfa and a couple others like absolutely
Just wishful helmet for the audience is supposed to be a scene for us to be like yeah
We're doing this almost
She is if you if you could just alter it a little bit then yeah
She's absolutely the audience. This is the thing
She reacts to a lot of things and she gets to do a lot of things that the audience would totally do for example
Go go and see luke. It's like why would she do that? Why would the audience do it? Fucking are you kidding me?
I can't wait to meet luke luke luke fucking sky can't wait to talk to him
Um, but ray ray has no reason to talk. She's just a guy. See it
It might it might have been better if she had more awareness of luke skywalker
Like she was almost like a luke skywalker
fangirl in some way like she was she was obsessed with like the
The war and the events of like 30 years previously and she totally knew everything about it and it's like, okay cool
Well, she's got the galaxy
Yeah
What I would have liked for ray I think this I get a different take but it would have worked cool
Is if they wanted to do an overpowered force, you know sensitive character
If they ramped up her powers to insane levels and then have her struggle to controlling it like just randomly
She's hurting people and throwing things aside
And she wants to find luke skywalker to teach her how to control her powers
And then that would have a such a good payoff because it already established this is insanely powerful from the very beginning
And then when she actually starts to control it
then you could actually have that at say an awesome moment say when she's lifting up a death star because I caught that without you as
I was saying before that could kind of work
But now it's like it's being pulled out of nowhere. Like where the hell is this coming from?
And you you you know, the prequel is obviously dealt with a character with similar abilities like someone who's
Got a huge amount of power and very strong with the force and all that but there
Their struggle was then that that it resulted in arrogance and impatience and and
You know too much emotional attachment to other things
That that brought about their downfall and that made sense because okay
You've got someone who can't handle that amount of power and that kind of responsibility, but now
You've got someone who just deals with it with no problems whatsoever
You've you've completely undermined any kind of character arc
Mention for efap continuity if you guys remember I think rags is going to be aware of this. Um, but movie bob
Oh wait, and jay long bone actually
He uh movie bob said that she was like a super fan of star wars. Remember she's ray is supposed to be
Super duper fan as an insert. So ironically movie bob would be arguing against this video, I guess in a way
It's hard to keep track of it all
Even though those two are probably on the same team they disagree with each other
Oh, sorry, uh, it says keep in mind that it was max landis who and I only know him thanks to a red letter media guest
um
Yeah, he's a screen play screenwriter for a couple of movies
Keep in mind that it was max landis who first claimed that ray was a mary sue
You may know max landis from writing some of your least favorite movies
Uh, okay poison well mate, I was about to say what let me find out what max landis wrote
I know he wrote that weird one with um, jesse eisenberg
Yeah, um
writes, uh
So oh he wrote bright apparently which was not well received. I haven't seen it. Um american ultra, which again
I don't think that was well received
Victor frankenstein i've heard 50 50 things on that
And then chronicle which was very well received from what i've heard
So mixed bag then yeah kind of a mixed bag. I actually liked bright. I don't know why everyone hated it so much
I've heard good things about bright. I've heard a lot of bad things
I've heard very few good things. I've always meant to see it because I need to know what the fuck is in that movie
I think I think it would have made a better tv show than a movie
Yeah, yeah, because there's so much to sort of
Yeah
um
Yeah, so I guess his point there is that max landis shouldn't be trusted about her being a mary sue because he's a bad writer
It's it's like it's so absurd like oh, yeah, everyone didn't think she was a mary sue until max landis said it
It's like oh people were saying. Oh, everyone liked the prequels until red letter media came out. It's like no
Nobody walked out of the theater
From the last jedi thinking ray's kind of op, isn't she?
No one did
No one did max max said it and then it became true. Well, so this is the thing about when um,
Daisy really was like the term is sexist
I'd be like, okay
So I guess from now on we should stop saying mary sue and just say that the the elements of mary sue instead
But she's super powerful all the characters really like her and she seems to be an insert for the audience slash
Whatever else if you say that because that's the whole point of words, right?
A lot of them are shorthand for meaning a lot of other things
We come to understand as a collective if different people have different definitions for fucking mary sue or they find it sexist
Like fine. We'll just say the other things
Yeah, there's there's there's a perfectly serviceable male equivalent and it's just the concept that's that's there
You can apply it to anyone. It doesn't the character doesn't even have to be human at all
Like traits is a mary sue
Some people call male characters mary sue
I was supposed to say some people refer to male characters as mary sue and you'd be like you could call them gary stews
Sure, but most people consider mary susan gary stews to be different things. They're like sort of different criticism
um
Like a gary stew pertains to different sort of attributes
But again
You can call a male character a mary sue because most people will know what you're talking about
They're going to be super op
You know solve all the problems the plot presents and a little basically all the characters will like her including the bad guys
So
Yes, I think I want to point out the the capitalization on these fucking sentences are all over the place
There's like a small a
Like he doesn't capitalize chronicle which is the title of a fucking movie and then he doesn't capitalize it when he goes to the next sentence
You're right. Why has he got ghostbusters underneath mary soon?
because it's
Well are the ghostbusters considered mary sues wait
I thought they were oh ghostbusters. Yeah, they're just considered idiots
I think yeah, I don't recall anyone
Criticizing ghostbusters because the protagonists were mary sue is because they were unfunny and creepy and awful and no one
Generally, why is ghostbusters there?
Ghost but I guess because he's probably well i'm i guess that he's linking in the whole sexism thing
Mary sue must be sexist because it's called mary sue
People didn't like ghostbusters because they hate women. It only makes sense
Okay
so now that we've given that of
Arguably
I would say that inaccurate halfway inaccurate definition
Tied sexism to people who think that raisa mary sue poisoning the well with max landis
Now that you've officially done all of those things in one convenient still image
We can proceed can't wait for him to explain to me how she's not an idealized and seemingly perfect character go for it
Oh, it's not a still we've just been here for fucking ever
Oh here's time to read it I appreciate that why could you just settle of this?
Because
And to be honest with you. I really hate the term mary sue because yes, there are instances and circumstances to where
In hollywood films. We do get female characters and male characters and certain other characters that might be overpowered
However, I feel like for the most part and specifically here
It's justified as to why ray is so powerful and she does make a lot of mistakes in the process
Which okay because she she missed her swing there. That makes that's a swing one time
Too bad, but this never ever translate into any actual consequence
Yeah
Like just as if he still stood in front of the camera he's not actually got a
Microphone or anything there to talk to I guess it's consistent these fancy microphones, but uh
He's found a long way of saying
She's not that powerful. It's justified. Oh, well her power is justified and she makes mistakes. That's all he said there
Well, how could her power be justified if we don't even know what her background is yet well
Yeah, is this just going to be one of those classic arguments of like well
I have decided that ray isn't overpowered and she does make mistakes and she's a completely relatable character
Moving on or going as far as being like wow anybody could be super powerful in the star wars universe. So it makes sense
Apparently I want to see if I can preempt his argument here to justify
um
Raise power because there is that what line from snoke where he said, you know
Then the force would produce someone
On the light side to balance out your evil. Like is that the line that yeah, I wonder
The light rises in the dark with it or vice versa or something
And so he might be saying
Yeah, he might just be saying this is she was given huge power by the force to balance out
Kylo Ren, of course, it doesn't explain how she learns to control it so easily. Yeah, because it's such a lame fucking argument, man
Yeah, it's this thing as well like if you're someone who's lived a horrible life
Like she has, you know stuck on this desert planet with with no resources and having to struggle to survive every day
And you're sudden suddenly given this immense power
You've got no frame of reference for how to
Control that you would you would go off the rails a little bit like anyone would you would become drunk with power?
But again, yeah, you'd have to become adjusted to what you suddenly have
But that would be interesting. Yeah, that would be interesting
But this is ryan johnson's the second the second you veer into interesting colleagues like no stop it put the belt down
We'll take care of that more. It's it's weird
The more we talk about ray the more I look at the the prequels and i'm like, oh my god
They actually did a not bad job. I'm like
It's profound tlj made people hate tfa and start to like the prequels like wait, what's what's happening here? What have you done?
You did it. Yay
We're gonna be talking about a point of reference
Mistake wait, wait, wait, wait, wait
Mistakes that our gallery
Let's have a look our gal and she does make a lot of mistakes in the process which we're going to be talking about the few
Mistakes that our gal
I didn't get to read
I got it. Okay. I didn't read it fast. I was trying to
The whole point of text is to read. All right ignores luke's warnings
To try and save carla ren. Oh, no, she's too pure of heart. Oh, what a fucking idiot
Hey doomcock, how you doing?
Hey, how's it going? It's been so long. Hey, man
It has been a long time. I'm very honored to join you in this noble experiment a 24-hour stream
Oh, no, I was I was actually saying we are now we're we're past our capacity, which means i'm afraid
Critical drinker you said you'd like to go around now, right as well. Yeah
I was I was kind of I was too caught up in that video
I was just loving it so much, but I think my time has come so uh, i'll bid you guys very well
But you want to quickly very much for doomcock. I don't know if you've met him before but doomcock
It's a critical drinker. I don't know if you guys have heard of each other but meat
Well, we we we I don't think we've ever met personally, but uh, we're brothers in booze
I mean, yeah
I drink a lot and I think a drinker
exactly
We we really ought to like hit the pubs and
And bitch about shit because uh, I think next time you're in edinburgh, man
Give me a shirt and i'll uh, i'll meet you someplace. We'll have a few points. Oh, man. Oh, that would be blast. Thank you
Yeah, definitely. We need to chat sometime, man
No, hit me up. Um, we we'll uh, we'll catch up some podcasts together. Everybody podcasts together. Okay
Well, i've got the i've got the drinkers on happy hour. So, uh, you're always welcome on that
Um, but yeah, otherwise guys, uh, thank you very much for having me on
It's been a total blast and best of luck. Um, I hope you make it to the 24 hours. Thanks for coming on dude
It's been great
All right. Yes guys. See you later
And yes doomcock this is shadiversity the guy with the sword chad, this is doomcock. I don't know if you guys have ever met either
No, we have a hell of a doom
Oh good to meet you, sir
You sound you sound like where are you from?
Can you guess?
Um, it sounds like somewhere in the uk, but I could be wrong
Ah a big sense to guess but I have a very muddled accent people don't usually pick australia
I like the fact that I kind of sound
Yeah, well people assume i'm british for some I guess is my accent
But it seems to add a level of credibility to my you know analysis of medieval stuff
So i'm perfectly happy for the people to assume that oh absolutely evilness in australia
You can't know australia wasn't around during the medieval ages. Yeah, it exists. I mean the land the landmass was but
It wasn't invented till like the 1700s, right?
Yeah, that's right
To put our criminals
Well, but i'm sure he was descended from the uh preachers and missionaries that went there to attend to the criminals
Ah, yes
And there are spiders that eat birds on that island sir. Perfect. Jesus Christ criminals there. There's a reason why I own swords
I'll just say that yeah
It's like the most concentrated uh
amount of
Venomous dangerous creatures in the world, isn't that right? Yes, that's all yeah
I I have I have literally defended myself against these dangerous creatures with my swords. I'm not joking. That's a true story
You just will you walk around the outback with your swords?
Sometimes you need to be prepared
Even the damn ants are hell
I mean you've got the what do they call them the siafus and the jack-of-daws or something like that that are both like
Well knock you dead or something
Oh, there's a lot. I was about to say ants are terrifying like the ants at their peak. Jesus
We need to we need to move from this planet
Um, yeah, I was gonna say as as hosts. I gotta make sure everybody's met each other
So I guess next up doomcock have you met jay longbone before?
Uh, no, I have jay longbone doomcock meet each other
Hello
Hello
You both make youtube videos about stuff this is this is how we all know each other
Yeah solely only by reputation. I've never i've never actually met. It's been a long time mauler. It's a great honor
For asking me on absolutely. This has been a this has been a fucking roller coaster
We're just trying to cycle in basically all the different guests we've had previously. We've had a lot of people so far
I'm actually really happy with how this has worked out
Um, oh, yeah, I think we're having gary at some point later on. So you might be able to cross over with him as well
How is how is the inquisition going?
How's what how's the inquisition going?
Oh, it's going great. Yeah, we are really growing every every time it seems like it gets better and bigger. Uh,
It was born out of our bitter
anger and rage at the goddamn game of thrones
episode three season eight my
god, I I still
Cannot believe that I saw that I I absolutely cannot believe that they spent 49 nights 41 nights
Shooting that crap all of it in like close-up or medium close-up where there's limbs flying
They should have just shot it in a night with like five cameras. What?
There is no spectacle when you're just showing close-ups of of random limbs and people going are and in the dark
Well, maybe that's why they call it spectacle because you need your spectacles to see it
It makes sense. Yeah, and a really bright tv. Exactly
Oh god, so yeah, we're uh, we're uh, thankfully the only good thing that came out of game of thrones was the inquisition and uh
It's a great thrill to do every sunday
That's awesome to hear man. Like uh, oh and I was gonna say of course
Uh, I don't know if you've ever heard of slash met psa stitch as well, but they sitch meet doomcock and vice versa
Now
Hey now
I i've heard of i've heard doomcock on efap. Oh, i'm familiar with his voice his silky smooth voice
His silky smooth voice. Hey
It's a requirement of efap to have a good voice to be able to come on here. You see we only have great voices
Oh, I guess you're you're our most erudite and you are very wonderful voices. Yes
Your voice sir has a gravitas and a veritas
adjacent fan metal narrative. Yes
Oh, no. Oh, so doomcock. Do you have access to the chat that we're in right now?
Um, can you see that i've just posted a link to a watch together?
We're trying to get through a video that yes
If you just hit that link and join up with us, we're covering a video called why ray isn't a mary sue
Ah, okay
And not only is he arguing that he's decided to double down and also say he's gonna argue for why she's a great character
Oh
I know right? It's like wow. You really go for okay
Wow, it's really sad to see the fruits of alcoholism, but okay
Uh is the video uh loaded for you?
Yes. All right. I'll roll it back to just like 140 ish and see if as to why ray is so powerful
And she does is that all working for everybody?
Yeah, I saw ray waving her
Stick around in her best impression of star wars kid. So that's good
Yeah, I critiqued that scene itself in one of my videos. Oh that video was good shit, man
Wildly like it's a baseball bat and she's doing this wide stupid. It's like the most
Retarded sword stance you could ever take it's just so dumb. Oh
Truly she's the chosen one
Yeah
What's the thing? She has these kind of skills and yet she's basically the most dominant power in the history of fucking star wars
She outclasses stoke luke and the emperor
You guys understand there's a chance she will go back in time and defeat the emperor or some shit
Oh my goodness. Absolutely
or be uh, you know, uh
Shmi skywalker and give birth to uh anakin this
But I honestly hearing that one I was like man that sounds like they might do that shit
exactly
Exactly. It's just jar jar abrams
It's his it's his modus operandi that he would love nothing more
Than to put his filthy spore on every single aspect of the star wars universe in retro
Retrofitting it to his own hideous image. It's just absolutely his modus
in how
mocha no
Well, how incredibly empowering would it be for women to see ray?
Come to realize that she doesn't need a man to make a baby
That's so good, it might be the case like she's she's the virgin mary sue
Not
The virgin mary
Not since women have been so liberated
It's so sad it's gonna happen
Yep
There's so many ways they can destroy bull because this is the thing after tlj people like wow, at least stiles
Can't get any more dead or it's like there's always more
Oh land is still alive
Let's make a lot of mistakes in the process which we're going to be talking about the few
So I just want to pause and point out
You know the defense people make of that scene with her flailing around with that lightsaber?
Is that she doesn't she isn't supposed to know how to fight?
This is her just working it out and stuff which is
Contradicted completely by the fact that then she takes on the imperial guard and beat him to the toy
And at this point she's already defeated kylo ren in a lightsaber fight. She has the power to make weapons disappear
It wasn't the argument that since she knows how to use her staff. She knows how to sword fight
That is Jesus christ. Yeah on that scene shad. Why don't you just obliterate that argument go for it?
Just there's so much wrong with it
I mean
There are certain things that would translate like if your understanding of distance and timing is a very inherent kind of
Skill in combat that you can actually translate even from unarmed
to weapons, right but in terms of
Uh the the techniques, okay, uh how to hold your sword if you're fighting high to low and everything like that
There is very little similarity between staff, you know
Fighting and sword fighting especially of the style that we see in the star wars things
There is so little like if you only ever used a uh
Staff and then you picked up a sword and even if you had that understanding of distance and timing and you went up against someone
Who trained with the sword?
And you know is experienced with him the person who's experienced will obliterate the other person very easily because there are certain things that
You can tell when when someone picks up a sword
He doesn't know how to use it properly, especially with the right stances and reactions and maneuvers and stuff. It is
Phenomenally easy to manipulate them to open up. I like I actually made a recent video
Trying to teach my brother how to sword fight and his he's a total noob only picks it up
And it's hilarious how much I trash him and just destroy him
Because it's so easy to predict what he's doing because he just doesn't understand the things and that was a joke
I'm not I'm not, you know criticizing my brother. That was the fun of the video
But no, no, there is so little that translate in terms to the actual form and stuff. Yeah
Well that that all makes perfect sense and I would believe you if you're from from the uk
I don't know if I can believe you because you're familiar
Well, I i've killed australian, you know, uh animals with my swords, all right
I've had real battlefield practice. I'll be I believe you if you were talking about throwing your boomerang
Now if you were from america then yeah, definitely
So are you suggesting shad that if you're experienced and fluent with something like a long sword?
It may not be helpful when wielding a mace
Actually, there's more relate there's more relation between a mace and a long sword than there is between a long sword and a quarter
What do you think would be relative?
uh in this scenario
Because as in I guess like oh what would translate like yeah, because I guess a star a staff is like a
An actual weapon people would typically use in scenarios, right a staff. Am I crazy for that?
Yeah, absolutely pole arms and quarter stars and things like that
The way ray fights with her staff is actually not the best way that
You actually she's holding it in the middle and trying to usually hit with both sides and things when you see a fight
You actually generally hold the the staff right at the very end like a long spear or something like that
Even if it's blunt that's generally the better much better way to fight with a long, you know
Quarter staff like weapon and everything because the way she's holding it
When you try and move the sword from one side of your body to the other
You have the other end of the staff protruding that would obviously get in the way
It's knocking against your body
and so you actually have to raise it vertically in front of you to get the
bottom end of the staff to the other side of your body which locks off a huge amount of
Technique that you could do if that wasn't getting in the way because with a sword
there's nothing protruding further past the pommel and because of that you can hold the sword directly in front of you and
Spin it around and do proper high moves high guards and everything like that
And there's no nothing getting in the way and you can utilize those maneuvers to a really high level of effect
And this is what i'm saying why you would get thrown off if you were using the stuff like what ray was doing it
Because she would be completely unfamiliar
With these forward guard positions stuff like that where you can remove the sword so easily one side or the other because you can't do that
with the staff and so
She would be lost on a lot of very significant
Uh long sword style techniques not even even just katana styles
I was just thinking if you were on set when all of this was prepped and they were like
So does anything you think we should correct I could imagine you'd be like, okay
I have I have a note
I have filed a compendium of errors
Just see the script he's like, yeah, you just you throw it off a cliff you're like, here we go
Quick quick get in there. Yeah, i'm like, let's start from scratch
Jesus christ, I did a video about how bad this situation actually is because look at the structure of it
I mean it's it's mathematically
Uh sound to to make this argument look you've got luke skywalker who's a jedi master
Okay
So he's got this school and he's training
young ben to uh be a jedi so his student
Is so powerful relative to luke that the student not only kicks luke luke's ass
But destroys his entire school without being trained. That is how powerful kylo ren is
So powerful that luke runs off to an island and sucks on manatee milk and uh nurses his wounds. Wouldn't you then?
Then ray comes along
And she is so vastly more powerful than kylo ren
That she defeats him without any training whatsoever
Therefore she is by extension
Vastly as more powerful as she is than kylo ren. She is vastly vastly vastly vastly more superior to luke
and that is what disney is holding up as a
sequel trilogy that that is the role model for kids to utterly and completely make luke skywalker
Shit on the underside of not only kylo ren's boot, but ray's moccasins
Well, let's uh, let's say you looked at the script or you could view the movie
But instead of knowing which characters were which and what their history was their age was their training was anything you just replace them with
uh
Just character a character b character c and say okay this person beats that person that person does this that person does this
You would have absolutely no idea who was the life almost lifelong jedi master
Who was the apprentice who was the nobody who just got their hands on a lightsaber? You would have absolutely no idea you would assume
That luke was the guy who'd never held a lightsaber in his life and it'd be insanely confused. You have no idea
Mm-hmm. Exactly
Exactly. That's that there's great writing ruin johnson boy. Can't wait to see knives out. Oh, wait. Yeah, I can
Are you I was gonna say you're gonna get are you gonna check that out? You're gonna fucking boycott that shit
Oh hell no, i'm not gonna i'm never gonna go pay to see anything that
Even from the trailer the trailer ryan johnson's fucking trademark humor is in there. I was like, oh good
Yeah, they got these really crappy ill-timed jokes
Mm-hmm. I don't it's sad to see him get a fucking old star cast though. It's just like oh, I guess that's just something he can do
Okay
Well, he's got the money to do it. Uh, I guess they haven't really paid attention to what's going on in star wars fandom
But that's the guy that basically killed
Put the final nail in let's say of the star wars franchise. I think jar jar abrams, of course is the one who really really
You know
Did the damage he always does it's like with star trek. He plants the seeds of uh, you know, he basically raises the crop
Makes a huge amount of money because that crop is raised and every bit of it has been converted
But then salts the land and moves on to the next franchise and that's what's happened with with last jedi
It's growing out of salted ground literally red salt. Uh, that is that is not just a metaphor
It is actual literal fact in the last jedi
Salted fucking earth. Yeah, uh, whenever I send messages in the chat, by the way
I know it's not my confirmed tick to molars because this is the google account or whatever the hell it's attached to the obs thing
I'm using don't worry. It's actually me. It's not some pasta
Um, but yes
Are we good to continue?
Yes, wonderful. So if molar in the chat asks you for your credit card information you can trust him. Yes
So this is so what he's trying to do here is mount an argument for how she's not perfect
So his first criticism of ray is hey man, you know, she's not perfect
She ignored luke's warnings to try and save kylo ren. So the idea is that she's too nice
That is her flow. Yeah
It is a character flaw of george washington that he ignored king george the third's command to remain subservient. I agree
Because it's not even like luke is not established as like a good character. He's all fucked up not even sound of mind
He's like yeah, let everyone die. It's like what?
I'm, sorry, but when luke skywalker tells you you should give up on someone. It's like jesus christ. What happened to you man?
Fuck you saved our hater. That's kind of fucked up. I was gonna say kind of as bad as vader
Luke did this with darth vader and it seems like they were just trying to you know
Establish ray as the new luke skywalker with hope and everything like that
I mean and it was never implied that luke's choice to try and save darth vader was wrong
I mean and ultimately darth vader did turn and help out his son and save his life and kill the emperor
So that worked out that kind of sets a precedent that it's good to try and save the bad guy
and so
I'm, not seeing a character flaw because of this. Yeah ignoring bad advice
That's how desperate people are to prove that she's not perfect it's like look she doesn't listen to luke skywalker
Was dumb and I wouldn't listen to him either necessarily in her position
That's the thing. I have no idea how to get into ray's mind. Like I have no idea what her perspective is
What a shame dude. I don't even know why she's here the idea that this is where we're at
It's like luke was right. You should give up on your family. It's like oh
Luke luke was right. Oh, no
The color actually
It's kind of like basically these guys are following the outline of a young adult romance novel
And the reason that she disregards luke's warning to try and save kylo ren is because well, I know he's bad
But she thinks she can change him if only she just loves him enough, right?
That's basically it they've set up the thing with the oh put on your shirt. Oh, don't put on your shirt. Oh, I love you
That's basically it
She saw him with his shirt off and now she's in love. They're like yep. That's it. That's all it took
Here's the character flaw. It's kylo ren's primary seductive mode because it keeps her eyes off of his
gigantic nose
And that really helps how fucking awkward the scene where he's got his shirt off people cite that as like see she's falling for him
It's like yeah, what the fuck? Wait
What?
When was that a thing? What?
Yeah, you see if you get a tingle in your vajoodle, that means
Did he kill your father figure? It doesn't matter
And you know
If these roles were like if the genders were switched
Okay, if ray was a male character and kylo was the female character there would be much criticism
In how shallow this thing like, you know ray is only
ogling the the other character because they you know, she's showing cleavage and stuff and
That's the only interest this character is showing with which has just got an attraction then there's no deep romantic
You know, it's not established or anything like that. But because it's you know, now she's a female it's fine
She can ogle as much as she will she likes
Sure
Well, it's terrible and it's depicted as actual credible character motivation that she does and by the way, she wasn't strictly wrong
She proves that kylo was actually not interested in dominating the will he what like genuine question
What did kylo want from her?
He was like, let's let's ignore the rebels and the empire and start our own new cool club, right? That was his thing
He wants a girlfriend
So like luke was wrong that he was fully bad but ray was also wrong that he was fully good it's like, okay
I want you to be my queen. I don't really know what that means. But okay
Shit's too complicated. Let's see what her other flaws are. Come on
Um, I think people are saying in the chat that it needs to be refreshed
There's a five people saying people f and f5 and stuff for refresh
Oh, yeah, if the stream goes down at all for any reason just refresh and it should be back up
Anything worse than that happens. I will do something about it. But
My my main like litmus test for that is can you guys still hear me?
And if you both reply everyone's replied to me, I guess. Oh my internet's still working. No
Um, but yeah, okay. So second floor she dwells within the dark side to find her true parentage and fails
Did he not did he not explain
Anything about did he just skip into a new thing without talking about it
So he's just he's just he's just displaying them in words. I guess like there's no development
Okay, like ray wells within the dark side to find her true parentage and fails
She dwells within the dark side you find her true parentage and fails. I'm not even sure what this means
Was that cave supposed to be the dark side? I thought just like
There's only one light
She openly rejected it and tried to escape from it. Yeah, you're right. It was literally dark
This is the thing
Do you remember the movie where luke is like explore explore explore and then she like apparently sees the dark side he goes
You went straight to it. What the fuck?
And then I ran away from it what do you want me to do and he's like
I've never seen such disgusting power since since kylo ret. I try to kill him in his sleep. So imagine what i'll do to you
It's like oh Jesus Christ
It's like a chewy, uh lock the millennium falcon back
Just luke rocking back and forth it's like she's gonna be the next bad thing that I won't do anything about
She great. She she scatters a bunch of porgs inside the millennium falcon
So they'll chirp if they see anybody move or something. They sound exactly like a love clone
All right, looks like thinking I need to find a new island to run to but why if you see a green glow run
Oh, yeah, he has to leave arc two to find a different island to then recreate himself
Um, I was gonna bring up as well if he actually did that if he held the lightsaber over while she's sleeping
She woke up. She wouldn't pull the roof down on him, you know, knock him out
She would literally just separate him into atoms. That's how fucking strong she is
She would annihilate him. Oh, yeah
Remember in empire strikes back
dark
Remember in empire strikes back when luke goes into that dark tunnel and he like faces his inner demons
Yeah, that was luke like going giving into the dark wells within the dark side
Well, at least he had the good courtesy to chop his head off, you know
She didn't she had infinite rays and she just said hey, what's up? I was about to say
I didn't even know that place was the dark side
It was just like a place. It's like oh, I just it's it's literally just a hole of mirrors. I don't know
Yeah, it's like I I wouldn't want to live here. It looks like did you see how dark it was down there?
She's like, oh, yeah, there wasn't any lights like it
It's like in fantasy it was nighttime in a cave so I don't really this doesn't seem like it would be light
Accidentally wandered onto the set of game of thrones season three season eight episode three, you know, basically that's it
If that cave was the dark side and she goes into it and then the cave rejects her and she fails
Doesn't that mean she's like ultra light? Yeah, she failed to join the dark side. Is that a good how's that a flaw?
How are you uh
She didn't glow in there. She she was dark too. Uh, I don't know she touched a mirror and saw herself
failure
To be fair most of us most of us see ourselves when at a mirror
That's I I know and that is why we fail. I just love well in the dark
We can figure out whether or not she dwelled there or she failed anything
We're like, okay, so you've defined it as the dark side this this weird hole
Like I don't even know where you got that from like all of it is just stated as if like, yeah, that's just true
The vein of argument is taking here isn't
Actually contradicting the fact that ray is a mary sue
The like a mary sue can exist with one or two minor flaws because it's a balance and even the definition
What was it? It was a seemingly perfect. That's not to say and exactly perfect
It's a character that has the appearance that is mostly perfect that that there are not enough flaws to balance out against the uh,
endless, you know
Strengths positive things that the character has and also that these positive characterates the power that they have aren't isn't justified properly
So if he wants to actually argue to say that she isn't a mary sue
He would instead of trying to say look there's a flaw right here
Okay, maybe he might be able to point out a single flaw that ray has right that doesn't contradict the fact that she's a mary
Sue still okay, because that single small flaw doesn't balance it out in any measure
It's still way way skewed in ray's favor with her
All her, you know skills
So what you're saying is if this was a flaw it does not
Help the argument whatsoever that she has flaws because it's such a shitty flaw in the first place
But there are also like four different issues with this definition of this being a flaw
Like we have four different ways of breaking this down. They're like, no, no, no
Just just no, so I guess we can move on to the next one
I guess I got flaws. These are mistakes
I love it. Just she has no context for this if luke was like, oh, there's a big butt hole on this island
That's the dark side. Don't touch it
Okay, she's not perfect. She ended that sentence to the preposition species
Imagine you were there with her and she's about to like go up to you like oh that looks kind of weird
What is that? She's like, oh fucking no, you're like, okay, just yeah, check it out
I'll repel you down like why not? It looks like that's a dark side you fucking retards. You're like, oh
Really?
The dark side's a physical location. You can just go visit
That's a really weird aspect because I thought that the whole point in empire strikes back was that that like area of de go bar would
Challenge you or like you'd have to face your demons in a way. It would like for all we know the mushrooms
They were giving off some sort of a um experience
um, yeah, I I think it's a characteristic of of masters in these fantasy films that they are all dicks
Because you know, uh, look at look at game of thrones
Look at the three-eyed raven max von seed out
What would be the one thing that you would start off the training of brand the one thing would be?
Oh, and by the way brand whatever you fucking do do not travel
Over to war where the night king is and let him touch you. Okay. Yeah, that's the one thing that would completely destroy
Everything by shattering the spells on the wall and give him the chance to escape don't do that. I was gonna say
Half of us don't have the context for this
So just to explain right there's a guy who's trying to teach a main character
How to use the power of the three-eyed raven which essentially allows you to look into the past future and present wherever you want
At any time. Yeah to design your wheelchairs. Yeah, pretty pretty opie now
Nothing can stop you and nothing can get at you
Also, there's an army of ice demons that are trying to cross the wall
The only way they're going to be able to get to you is if they touch you while you're exploring shit
so basically brand goes off on his own after
What looks to be a lot of time exploring shit?
And the the ice demon guy touches his arm
And it makes it so that there's no defenses for brand at that point onwards that the ice king could just break through everything
Because he's touched him and the fucking guy who's been teaching him all of this shit for potential like a year or whatever
Didn't tell him about this
I wouldn't let off with that one. I I that would be the fit. It would be etched on the fucking wall
Don't let creepy old ice man touch you
lesson number one
Do not let the night king touch you all other lessons are irrelevant that do whatever the fuck you want outside of that
christ
Yeah, so yoda sends luke into the the tree to you know
Have to decapitate himself and luke lets ray go down into the arsehole of the island
Uh where it's very very dark. Yeah, it's just a dick thing. I don't know. I just realized so let's let's have this play out
She goes down. She comes back and he goes you went to the dark side butthole. She's like, yep
He's like you you you're probably far on dark side disgusting. She's like, well, why'd you have a problem with that?
Well dark side's bad. It's like oh, so the light side's better. Yeah
Uh, it's like I thought these are the jedi suck
What I
Okay. Yeah, but the dark side's worse
Even though the light side kind of suck and it's like, okay
So why aren't you going to help me stop the dark side from obliterating the galaxy?
because i'm
Because I don't want I fucking want to drink milk
And then she ends up by saying hello. Just kidding. The dark side was scary
Oh shit, i've got all this power i'm going to use it to destroy the empire and take over the world. He's like, oh
Okay. Well, at least you're not the jedi. Yeah
At least you're probably do something about this but
I came here to die ray over 30 years. I've just sat here waiting to die because I don't know how dying works
You'd think this damn milk would have killed me by
Osteoporosis is a joke to me. Do you hear a joke if you haven't gathered ray? I make no sense
Just as a person in general
So, yeah, the uh, the message of this is uh, if anybody wants to dwell within my dark side just hit me up in the dm
absolutely cool
Push his wrong button releases raps. Oh, come on
This saves the day this actually saves them they're about to get
Executed by the fucking scottish mafia. What the hell?
Come on
Even yeah, exactly her fuck. She is so perfect that even her fuck ups save lives
Right, that is not a flaw
This is what we call grasping at straws ladies and gentlemen
I
You know what i'll agree with him that she probably shouldn't with everything we know about her i'm surprised she pushed the wrong button
It's like does she even know that that's possible. I always thought that she just knew everything about everything
It's like the plot allows her to make mistakes only if they can further
The only if they can facilitate amazing things happening
Like that's how insane it is. Like what does she actually do?
That's a legit consequential fuck up that doesn't lead to some kind of terrible thing
But and again, this isn't a character flaw
Even if this was even if this happened the way he's presenting it would just be a mistake an honest mistake a person made
Yeah, and that's not what we're what our problem is. We expect people to make honest mistakes
This is such a like it's part of being sad human sad videos like
Because I was about to say so he's first arguing
He's first going to be arguing why she's not perfect
Apparently there is going to be a point where he argues that she's a great character. Are you guys ready for that?
I'm not I am my sphincter as clenched as we speak
Do you think it's going to be arguments or is it going to be more like one sentences?
Just over scenes that aren't related to those sentences. She is nice to people. She goes through things
She matched her journey matches the themes you're like, oh
Oh, she metabolizes oxygen efficiently
Oh
Is that it
Do you have something not ready for that scene, holy crap such a weird
Genuinely dude, like I said in my video when she's losing her shit trying to talk to him because he killed Han Solo
I was like man
I'm actually kind of feeling something for a second there because of the idea that this character's dad
Even though that doesn't make sense was killed by this person this person's trying to ask her questions and she can't compose herself
I was like, oh that's kind of good next seed. Can you put a shirt on please?
Like what what what what?
Why why I just need to put a shirt on what's what
Not accepting shirtless kylo red is a flaw
biggest character
This must have been intentional on kylie's funny joke initiating it
He knew he knew
Well, if he knew it right and if he if he wants to throw ray off
I'm like, why doesn't he commit to it and go full naked?
I think it would be I'd just fucking say hey ray, what's up and i'd be helicoptering that bitch around. Oh, man
I don't know man. Let me tell you about the dark side
I probably would have congratulated ryan if he'd got as far as having him on the toilet with a newspaper and he's like, oh shit
Give me a sec
Look I get it. We have to talk about shit, but I don't know about it
I'm reading the funny pages. There's two million and a quarter people on this ship
Why are you why do you keep coming to me when i'm on the toilet? She's like, that's not me
There you go. You've made a comedy. Is that a pork shaped thing?
I hope he appears to you in times of great distress
Yeah
It makes sense I use the force
I mean if luke skywalker can fly an x-wing and shoot an x-wing so well
Enough to blow up a death star then i'm pretty sure that ray could most certainly pilot
It's not that she can pilot it
It's that she could pilot it better than it has ever been piloted ever before ever fuck this argument
First of all, what about ism just because another thing is bad does not mean the primary thing is bad
Secondly, it makes complete fucking sense that luke's skill is piloting. He talks about it throughout the whole fucking movie
Exactly. It's well established
And that's like one of the only things that luke is uh good at off the bat
He really struggles to get his hand over the force and stuff
Like in the first movie all he has kind of is the feeling trusts the force kind of stuff
That's all he really gets to and the beginning of the next movie where I don't know how much time has passed
He has only got to the point where he can barely pull a lightsaber to his hand after really trying when his life depends on it
That's how many how many years have passed as well. Isn't it like three years?
Yeah, it's like a long period of time and ray is here and she suddenly realizes. Oh forces can talk to people
I'm going to now dominate this guy's mind by suggesting instantly because I want to yeah
And as was pointed out by john in the chat and this is something we uh talked about and one of the other
Recent efaps as well. Is that the company who makes the
Hopper and the company makes the x-wing same company. So the controls will be and he says as much
He's like it's no different than blah blah blah blah. He mentions. Uh
What is it? Womp rats rat?
Womp rats or something like that is the film is trying to tell us the one skill
He fucking has that he nails in this movie is something that's inherent to his character based on tatooine
Ray on the other hand has like fucking seven of those
It's even at the beginning of the movie when you know, um harm says pilot yourself
And he's like i'm not such a bad pilot myself. I could fly fly this thing
Like like even from the beginning of the film it's establishing leech can fly
Oh, yeah, definitely
And I mean and he's a great shot that he can hit the uh, the you know exhaust port. That's about two meters big
He says well, I used to bullseye. Uh, womp rats in my t16 back home. They're not much bigger than two meters
And he needs to use the force. How do you use the force?
This is this is a thing people uh, like
Go ahead. He's flying the x-wing at the end, you know
He's got all these people helping him and he's got you know, tie fighters on his back and han so saves him
Nobody saves ray. They go to save ray and she's already saved herself. It's like they just wasted the trip
She's yeah, like well too slow
And if we're talking about the pilot thing
Like there's no way that ray with her upbringing would ever be in a position where she'd pilot a spacecraft
Hey rags, let's like she's scrounging together parts just to not not even for money, right?
She's not even doing it for money. She's just doing it for food
Let's uh, let's let's I was gonna say rags let's let the our four guests right now know a different argument that came up on
a previous efap
Just just it just reminded me. It's not necessarily related but still star wars
uh
So why didn't they use y-wings in the opening battle of tlj to use as bombers?
So so that's a decent question. Decent question. Uh, the counter to that was most of the audience don't know what a y-wing is
Ah
Under that logic at the beginning of the film no one knew what those bombers were either we had never exactly the bombers are brand new
What the fuck?
It was oh, that was just right, wasn't it?
Well, I guess y-wings are built to operate in zero gravity and the bombers needed to drop bombs. So that's that's why
But basically the fucktardation of physics
Was enabled in in those bombers when your movie requires physics to die in order to work
Please
But yes, uh people this is an argument that's trolled out a lot
Luke is no less a mary sue than ray and it's utterly bewildering to me. That's that's bull. Absolutely rubbish absurd
To blow up a death star
Then i'm pretty sure that ray could have you heard it when people compare to anakin as well
Not to say that anakin doesn't have certain abilities
I hope he kind of says it to be honest because we can explore it
But I love the idea that you're referring to the guy who had his all of his limbs chopped off
He was burned to a crisp as a mary suit
You're a mary suit he's like
Blood
That's actually an important part in kind of the light dark comparison because the dark side always says that it's more powerful
You know
You don't underestimate the power of the dark side and stuff and yet when anakin is so high on his power
He thinks he's so great
Obi-wan just trashes him, you know
Uh, and it's like yeah dark side not as powerful as you think buddy, you know, um, yeah
Yeah, yeah, it can't it can't
Oh, it can't fix your overconfidence. I was gonna save it for the meme section
But a lot of people want me to address this
So I don't know if you guys know but uh the toy line has been coming out for episode nine and y-wings are in it
Uh, which means that y-wings will possibly appear in episode nine, which means like where the fuck were they raised?
Where the fuck were they?
And don't you dare tell me that y-wings are more expensive than those massive abominations
I'll do you one better rags. Nobody knows what they are. So why but oh shit. They're in the movie
Uh, nobody remembers not what they are. That's why they're called y-wings because no one knows what they are
well
Yes, exactly why y-wings
I I look I think it's gonna be because ray is gonna go back in time
And so we're gonna go back to the battle of yavin
They're gonna go ahead and see the y-wings on her way to basically be shmee skywalker
I'm telling you are we gonna get y-wings what wings who wings where wings and our wings chicken wings
And they're gonna make get this they're gonna make anakin
A mary sue because what's gonna happen is to explain why shmee skywalker didn't actually free herself from the sand people
It's gonna be because anakin being a toxic white male
Stole all of her force power when he was born
It makes sense. And so he will be ray. He will be mary sue. It will be the rise of skywalker. I'm telling you rise of the page
You know what would be far more satisfying
Ray goes back in time not as far. She only goes back in time a little bit has a sex change
And she is what becomes snoke that that oh my god
As you can see the surgery so there was a complication in the surgery
There are some extra holes got in places. They shouldn't have been
Yes, i'm picturing like just the worst. What is the worst thing?
I thought she goes back in time and there's nothing that actually comes of it
She just has an aneurysm and falls over you're like, oh
I'd laugh
Of course, of course the only thing strong enough to defeat ray was ray
All right, let's see what else this guy's got
Certainly pilot the falcon on her first try. We know that luke skywalker's father anakin skywalker and later darth vader
Is where he inherited his piloting skills because anakin was such a great pilot during um
I don't know if that's necessarily true. Yeah, so I don't know if piloting skill is genetic
You've got the genes for the y-wings I like how everyone ever would have been like wait a minute
I don't think you can automatically pilot due to your father's ability to pilot
Yeah, if your father wasn't around to teach you probably no correlation
Why would he excite that instead of citing luke saying over and over again something he does what the fuck
Well, because that doesn't help his argument
Make argument for ray. I don't know. I I
it's like the uh argument that when you
Uh teach a a tapeworm to maneuver a maze or something and then you chop it up and feed it to other tapeworms
They know how to run the maze. So maybe uh, they served luke
vader's hand
Uh, and and he inherited the knowledge
That's just a theory
It pads out I guess
I can't it works. I get what you're saying. It's just what a strange
Thank you
When you're forced when you're forced to defend tlj, this is where you end up
Highlighting is genetic of star wars. Gotcha
Christ, well star wars now is basically like a parasite that's feeding off of something great
Well, you know, you never saw what ob1 did with the limbs. He cut off anakin
He could have been feeding them the loop the whole time. Oh, no
Oh, no
I mean he is old
That could be where that could be where ray comes from
The hand that got chopped off of luke was taken and then ray grew out from the hand
See so many films we've skipped over that have such fascinating stories to tell
Luke's arm a star wars story
Wasn't it actually isn't that actually a theory?
I don't remember who was there some video where they were saying like when ray is in the cave
The shadows are supposed to be chibaka and han solo and they like cloned ray from themselves or something
Anything's possible. You know what happened to um, you know what happened to anakin's
Severed arm was that they went to go find it but randomly a fluke of physics occurred and it was
Transported into the clover field paradox, which is why it was sentient because of the force
Yeah, it all fits. I mean you guys are putting way too much effort into this with theories these days
All you need to go is like so you you have all these questions
Yeah, like who is snoke where do you come from who were his parents? How's this all gonna roll out?
Where's the emperor coming from blah blah blah you go job of the hut
Jabba the hut
I don't I don't follow jabba the hut. Okay
It makes more sense now. Remember he's that slug guy from the return of jedi. Yeah as if that explains your point
He's the guy
If they don't know why wings they're not gonna know jabba
Oh god, you're right. Remember how jabba had like a palace. There you go
That explains it. There's really much feel of that
I wonder who lives there. The thing is like with bad writing people do sometimes
default to an excuse to explain things that is just as lame but they actually do it in real life and that's like
Magic and with star wars you have the magic the force did it. Yeah, it was just the force
I mean, you know, where did anakin come from the force?
Okay
Oh that oh
Is the only force are there multiple force babies does the force pay child support? I need
to
I need to know how many single moms out there because
I just saw this on the discord and I want to share it with you right now
He could shoot apparently the user drew it
Wait to pop up
Let me just click it if it's been oh
It's so cute. I must say this immediately. This is absolutely adorable. Who drew this?
Uh user pikachu
I've seen him in the chat. Yes pikachu
Rag utterly adorable. Gee, I am I have saved this. This is amazing. I love this so much
This is my face when we watch these fucking stupid ass videos
That is fantastic, I really like that that is great
Thank you. I was gonna say and don't fret there's a lot of people who've sent a lot of things in
We've got so many memes to get through i'm just waiting for the right time to do it same for super chats
It'll all be done. I swear to god. There's no way I won't do it
Oh man, I wish wolf is here
Imagine how many pizzas he would have been in through right now at least 17. I think at this point. That's how we would measure time
Pizza's are kind of clock shaped, right?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember it would be like a timeline or a countdown or timer or clock stop
What are the things to fucking brown table say?
Sorry, I didn't know pikachu I've only seen the name in the chat. I don't
Can pikachu not be a guy like that
Pikachu's a girl
I mean, it's not anything to pikachu. Oh, yeah. He's a guy intersected pikachu. Technically. Yeah
What hey, what are you doing? You do?
Don't you have to ask the pikachu what gender it identifies as
I think come on
2019 that's a respect. Damn it. Have some fucking respect
Jesus sexist. So anyway back to how luke is a mary sue. Yeah
Yeah, okay is where he inherited his piloting skills because anakin was such a great pilot during the clone wars
And we also know that luke skywalker had a skyhopper and land speeder on tada ween
Yeah, I see. So I would assume that that's where he got his piloting abilities from rather than genetics
I mean
in fairness you can inherit some of the
base characteristics like that lead to
Developing skills like yeah, my dad was a good artist and both me and my brother picked it up quicker than other people
Because we inherited certain things
It's not just the skill but like the ability to be able to measure proportions and you know translate things balance reaction
Yeah, yeah, right I get that but
When you're literally talking about learning how to use a particular piece of technology. It's like, uh,
You probably practiced with other pieces of technology
So it's nothing new to luke skywalker that he can probably shoot a gun on a spaceship
And also can fly if he has to fly
But let's move on and kind of apply the same thing to ray see ray has been a scavenger for years now
So it's no secret that she wouldn't know how to fly these older ships and speeders any ship
any ship
Yeah, okay look it'll it's not difficult. Let's say let's let's take a real world equivalent, right?
let's take a car right as as
Spaceships become more and more and more common because they become more and more and more user friendly
So that'll be the equivalent
All right
You can teach someone how to drive a car you probably teach them how to drive a car in 10 minutes
now the rules of the road and the maintenance and upkeep and the the
There's some details. Obviously, that's what's the difficult part. But driving the car
This is the brake. This is the gas
This steers it put it indeed to go forward put it and already go backwards and put it in p when you're done
That's it. That's all it takes
It's it's e but there's not but they're not going to it will be very difficult to figure that out if you just
Get into a car and have to figure it all out on your own
Now maybe she maybe she read material. Maybe she got some schematics. Maybe she's learned some way
Oh, I know that I know how to do it
I've I've read how to do it or seen how to do it, but i've never done it myself. Sure. I can buy that
But that doesn't excuse the level of incredible proficiency. She displays on her first try
Because the force i'm telling you it's just dr. Can't drive a stick shift. I drive a 2004 Mazda speed Miata
It's a six speed suck my dick get into my dark place
Well, the problem with this guy's logic here is she says well, you know ray has been a scavenger
Of scrap for years. Well, the problem is a scrap doesn't fly. That's why it's crap
So she really wouldn't have learned all that much. Doesn't she say she's only ever flown in atmosphere?
Not
I think she says she's only ever say something like that. Yeah
implies like imagine if
Go ahead
Imagine if you if you had to if you lived in a junkyard for airplanes
And there's a guy who paid you for parts and you just scavenged the airplane all day
Has doesn't mean you're going to be able to learn how to like fly the plane the second you get in it
Just because you pull parts out of the engine
Exactly. Yeah, and you can have you can have scrap that drives. I mean look at fiats
All right, this is this is
I don't know anything about cars. So
Racks how do you insult fiats? I don't know that anyone doesn't care about fiats
No, no
Okay. Yeah, that's fine. It's fine. It's fine. There will be there will be there's there's 3000 people watching percentage-wise
Some people will enjoy that. Yep. We got we got a ha ha ha. There we go from be cars. Well
Look at that because well, he knows cars
Uh, uh car guy credentials intact
Um, yeah, I think that was worth the effort and the subsequent discussion after the fact
so
Yeah, uh, come at me
Since she basically grew up scavenging them for spare parts
Also, a lot of people tend to forget that ray wasn't born on jack coo
He's like, you know how many people scavenge the copper from ac units tell them to build an air conditioner
You know those guys that take copper from buildings from pipes they know how to create a whole plumbing system
You know, you're a plumber now. You're an electrician
I saw um meme repository brought up. It's like ray knows a mechanic doesn't necessarily know
Things are how to be an f1 race car driver, right? Like these are different things
Yeah, exactly. Besides. This is the origin for every fucking one of abilities
Everyone always comes back to the fact that she's scavenged on jack who that explains everything
He's like that might give her some overlap in certain circumstances
but
uh being a scavenger maybe not the most ideal upbringing if you want if your goal is to become
A space warrior who can fly better than anyone's ever flown before to echo
Uh e.r though the explanation isn't necessarily
What we require
Because even with explanations for everyone of their abilities. She's still fucking amazing
Right being justified or not has nothing to do with the mary soonness
Because you know a little bit to do
Captain marvel is justified to agree captain marvel's abilities are justified. She's still insane. Yeah
Yeah, if it's justified enough, it's easy to accept
but what you want in addition to it is weaknesses to balance it out to be appropriately challenged to be defeated and other things to
make good conflict and stuff and so
There there there is a lot to the whole mary sue thing to prevent it
Because you can have a character that's overpowered that doesn't feel like a mary sue
That's one of the very things i've tried to do with my own novel is I wanted the character to be way power overpowered and stuff
But then you balance it out also in fairness to his definition. It didn't say inexplicably
It just said like overpowered
Well, if you had if you had it established that ray was the child of you know, luke skywalker
So you have a force bloodline and then you say oh ray was raised from birth to be like this ultra warrior
But you don't see any of this happen on screen and then you just see her as like a teenager kicking ass
And not having any flaws having no problems. You still say well, it makes sense, but it's still horrible mary sue with no character arc
Uh-huh. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, his definition said an idealized and seemingly perfect fictional character
So, um again, like I said having having an explanation for their powers doesn't actually negate the mary sue-ness from that definition
The ideal female character is fictional i'd say
Erasism
Yeah, the problem with the mary sue is not that they're overpowered the problem is that narratively in terms
of
Structure in the story itself when a character is already at the pinnacle of what they can do
There's no evolution. There's nowhere for them to go. They're essentially a dead character narratively speaking
So there's no interest whatsoever. That's the problem. The amendment I kind of appreciate was that it's not that they're like perfect at everything
It's that they're perfect at everything the plot requires as a as an obstacle
Area everything the plot puts into their way. They're perfect at solving it
Yeah, that's a good qualifier because obviously we don't know that ray is amazing at chess or that
He's like a really good gymnast. He's like, yeah, these things don't really come up. So
Summer assaults over the tie fighter. They're stupidly charging at her in the trailer. Yeah, you're right
She was a scavenger on jack who it makes sense
We saw him rappel down that means she can do somersaults
Right, right
You know balance beams and thus she became a master gymnast what makes a good rat rag
What makes a good rat?
So many things but was rather just left there to die as a young girl because her parents
Just didn't care about it. That's a really shitty flashlight. Also left there to die
The father was always confused about was was uncut plot her dad
Because he's holding her hand
Like did he operate as her dad? Did he was he like her guardian?
You know what I mean?
He was like her slave overlord because he's like left there to die
It's like well, I guess she wasn't necessarily left there to die. He probably looked at like she was left to be a slave
Oh left her to be in indentured servitude to him
Which isn't great. He left her there because she was so fucking annoying. She was so good at everything
Solved all of their problems. They're like I hate you
Like their kid has always fucking beaten him at chess and jenga and everything like I can't stand this smug little shit
Giving him life lessons about work. Fuck you
What do you know for the last time girl?
You should come to grips with your alcoholism because it's hurting you and it's hurting mommy and it causes emotional distress and those around you
Shut up
Comes up with like incredible philosophical statements and he's like what are you two?
Fuck when she when ray was born. She gave her mother a better orgasm than her father
Yeah
All right, then they're felt inadequate ever since
And he says right. Let's go walkies ray. Let's go for a little walkie. Shall we?
And then ray says why are you holding my hand? You don't need to hold my hand
No, no, no, she's holding his hand
Yeah, just so he doesn't get lost
She's holding him up she's holding him up
Is like i'll buy her for you know x unis and he's like no, no, no, I will buy her
To have you take her. I will pay you to take her away
It's funny to watch the chat eventually catch up to the joke that i've already made
Yeah, yeah
They're all they're all insulted by your disgusting your degeneracy
So would sit with us. Is that an orgasmic birth reference? You fucking bet your ass it is
That is a rlm reference passionate
Coming and going seven and eight
Episode nine has yet to be released
but for what it's worth
Ray was just kind of stranded on jack pew and was basically a scavenger her entire life
And like I mentioned these wow, so she should be shit at basically everything. Gotcha. Yep. Hey, man
Should be good at scavenging
I wonder how she even learned how to read in that sitting then like oh
That's a good point. Don't bring these things. Where's their education coming from
Uncoupled is cool for
franchise children
Now read on out with me
These are classes
It is very strange and on jack q from the battle of jack q which was the final battle in the galactic civil war so
These are the same ships around the time that the millennium falcon was made or put into commission at least
Is he trying to argue that was made
Well, if the in there's a general thing we've discussed this before
Somewhat that in the last jedi and in star wars really in general
There's like a technology stagnation that keeps the theme as it is thousands of years ago
You had the older public and all that stuff
It's like war hammer and lord of the rings stuff like that. So it doesn't matter if it's a little older
I'm fine with I think it's reasonable to think that there's sort of a standardization of technology that occurs and things stay the way
They are so most things are going to be older than ray. Anyway, so that shouldn't have anything to do with it
That it's necessarily an older ship
I think he's trying to say that the falcon is from the same era as the downed ships in the graveyard
Therefore it makes sense that she would learn how to possibly drive them would translate to the falcon
No, I can believe that she can turn it on that she could start the ignition
I I know I I can believe that she knows how to take it out of park
But the kind of incredible blue angels maneuvers that she's pulling
Yeah, gonna be a little bit more stretch people will counter with well, don't you remember?
She hits like the ground at one point. It's like she also does something more incredible than anyone has ever done with that thing
so
Hard to believe that that's like a world record speed runner for
0.03 seconds getting hung up on a pixel
And what's annoying about it, right?
Is that that like, you know chase scene with the millenia falcon and the tie fighters if you just look at that by itself
Without the context. It's really awesome
It's it's a cool kind of, you know space battle fighting was cool moves and everything
But it's completely undermined and robbed by the fact that it doesn't make sense that she can even do it
And it's just like well and to add insult to injury. He's like, you know, what the fuck just happened. She's like, I don't know
It's like what you oh
I did it all by accident
the force
Oh, no another one of my fuckups
This is another one of my floors
This is the second time this movie my fuckup saved everyone's lives
So we talk
These are the same ships around the time that the millenia falcon was made or put into commission at least
I mean, let's just apply this to real world stuff though for a minute, too
I mean, I can't drive stick shift, but if I had been a mechanic for those specific kinds of cars
And just kind of worked on those cars for years then yeah odds. All right. I'm not insulting him. I'm describing it
He also like that he just created a bit of a straw man his eye here like his point isn't
Completely applicable ray isn't repairing anything. She's pulling things apart. She's scavenging at no point
Did it establish she is building and fixing things? Yeah, and he's saying
Go ahead. Yeah
Well, I was just saying that his whole argument was that if I was a mechanic and I was fixing cars
I would know how to drive them, but that's not what ray is doing false equivalence
Exactly. If you are a scavenger and you survive by
Associating certain parts with certain returns and food
You don't have to know what they are what they're called what their function is on the ship
All you have to do is be able to know
Oh this kind of part that looks kind of like this is valuable and I get a lot of money or a lot of food
For this but these parts over here. Ah, they're so common. They're not worth bringing back
That's all you have to really do in order to survive in that gig
And I it would have been fixed really easily if they just added a small scene or just replaced front of the scenes with her
Actually building a ship she wants to you know
While she's waiting for someone but maybe she might be playing with the idea of getting free herself to find them
And that she's building a ship to use to fly off done
That would solve the fact that she knows how to build something and if she's been practicing flying it that could explain
Maybe briefly a small not as fully as how good she ends up being in that fine scene
But it can establish somewhat that should be able to fly and yeah problem solved
But there's nothing like that for us to be able to draw from I was supposed to say some people are referencing
Didn't she build a speeder bike?
Didn't she have the simulation in her helmet in the ship's like none of the shits in the movie
This is all from third party books and shit
And I don't know if you guys know about this, but like the book tried to justify why she's so powerful
She apparently like downloaded kylo's abilities when she force sexed him
What?
That's canon. That's so stupid.
They try and explain that the reason she's so good with the force is because when she was doing her force-tisms with kylo
She like copy and pasted his training into her own head by accident
So how does she beat the shit out of him? Wait, but yeah
I don't even have the answer
You have to have the accidently stole someone's powers. Let the guy let the guy who writes the next book worry about that bit
It's bad. It's bad. Hey, I've got a run you guys
I'm sorry. I gotta I gotta head out but uh, listen man. It was a lot of fun. Thank you for the invite
No problem, dude. It's been fun. Oh, yeah
And I hope you make it the 24. I think you will we got it. He's gonna do you gonna handle it
We got cheerleaders in chat. We'll do it
Awesome, you guys
Thanks a lot you guys. Thank you so much
You're a pleasure, sir
Ciao the force be with you always i'll download it later
Tell you what if I knew that the force could impregnate my wife I would not want her near it
It's like you want to be a jedi? No
So shad your attitude just super chad rags is a sick puppy also hi rex
Hello
I'm not saying I feel great. I'm very well. I'm very healthy though. Yeah. Look at that picture. He's very healthy
Yeah
Am I on the far am I on the far
Right on your stream because that would change my view of the person you whoever is my you're giving shad a look
Say that. Oh, yeah
I don't know what this look means, but it's a look
He sees that red. My editor is awesome. I just see like you guys know that he's a champion the editor, but I hardly know what
Got him
All right, let's see where this goes
Probably be able to drive one if need be and probably be better at driving a stick shift
Then your average novice who doesn't really know anything about these types of cars
There is no fucking way that as someone who is if someone who has only
Owned who learned who might my uh, my dad taught me how to drive a stick shift. That's my first car
That shit is fucking hard
With somebody telling you how it's done figuring it out on your own. Oh, yeah, that's gonna be a bumpy ride. Literally
Yep, I mean again cars kind of desperation war house
Yeah, it's that's that's desperation. Oh sure. You figured out. Yeah, maybe you've given enough training and time and
Oh, no, that should work
So yeah, it just kind of checks out to me as to why ray might be such a good pilot and also ray and luke also have
something called the force inside of
That's when you've given up by the way, that's when you say the force did it it's like you gave up it's magic
Force did it guys. You're just nitpicking
I don't fucking know the force did it
So so the force made her press the wrong button and then have a giant squid jelly monster fucking killer
Is the forest like yeah, you gotta press the button bitch
It's like, you know just to clarify it's not the same as uh
Literally when when obi-wan is like use the force guide the rocket into the death star with
Accuracy plus force it's like because we know the force is actually able to do stuff like that
But when you have this ability that's not connected to the force whatsoever and just go to the force today. I don't fucking know
Of course it lets you can can the force help you like be a great bartender? Yes
Can the force help you be a fantastic? I don't know
Hotel concierge. I mean what is the limits of what the force lets you do exactly?
How dare you imply there are limits?
Yeah, if we go off the previous movies the force establishes much faster reflexes which translates, you know into like piloting
You know flying to be really really good and stuff
But you need that you need to know how to pilot in the first place
To be able to get that benefit from the force and that's kind of the big question
We're trying to say here is like the fact that she even knows how to pilot isn't established or not
And even to pilot to that level of competency and if she can't do that
It doesn't matter how much help from the force she could get and the other side of that is that she isn't really supposed to be
That you know well trained in the force at this point in the movie at all
and so
even if it's a a kind of
You know inherent thing like young anakin did with his pod racing that he was a great, you know pod racer
Because of inherent force attributes
Well, he was training and he knew how to pilot already to be able to get that benefit ray doesn't well shouldn't have that
She just gets it out of nowhere
So you're saying it can teach you to be a masterful composer
Yes
Well, of course, I mean
It should be able to teach you anything. It's just having you see amadeus. Mozart obviously had force powers
I saw amadea
Amadea
Well, that's gonna be a big uh, but yeah, you know what I agree let's see what else he's got
That's it's not like we saw that in the original trilogy when luke
Called on it to blow up the death star when no one else could and he was kind of a novice
around that time too, so uh
I don't know just just just a random thought so, you know, we already addressed this so we're good
He's having a random full guys leave him alone
Now let's move on to the complaint that ray is just so skilled with a lightsaber
There's no way that she would be able to use it that well on her first try
Here's the thing ray is so skilled with a lightsaber
Oh do tell sir, please keep going. I was gonna say why did you pause i'm so excited
I I am listening with such interest because she used a staff which is a similar weapon
Not in any way. Nope
Not in any way
That is an insane thing to say
Swing look a staff is just a big sword. Think about it
It's a big stick on objects come on
Oh the other thing it only showed her beating up some thugs which we could assume have nowhere near
The skill or competency of the imperial guard. All right, and she was a bit flailing with it
Oh, they must be able to do everything of course. Sorry. Yeah
Jesus
But even if even if we were to say which you can't that all staff skill fighting ability is
100 bit transferable to swords, which we know it's not
It wasn't even shown that she was a master staff fighter. She just knocked around some thugs and that was it
She's not at the level of the imperial guard by any measure. But shad she's a scavenger
Oh
The force she has the force what what am I saying?
It makes sense if you don't think about it
Affind yourself. So when you're given another sword like weapon
This is sword like weapon
See this stick basically a sword like weapon
They're all the same. Think about it. You see this glock. This is a sword like weapon
You see this pile of papers
It's a sword like weapon
This is an artillery piece it's a sword like weapon
That's why she was so good at flying the millennium falcon. It's a sword like
Why do we even have words everything is a sword like weapon
Translate her skills and kind of applied her previous skills with the staff
To the light you're right. That's how she mind controlled the storm trooper her words a sword like weapon
People actually try to argue out of that one too. It's like it's totally natural
You know, you're you're sitting there thinking like oh you you let me go mind trick
I don't think that follows through
And people like oh she would have heard stories like all you had to do for that
Was have a like have some kind of fucking exposition line where all she knows about jedi. She's talking to finn
It's like oh they can like mind control people or some shit
Easy, but no, she just pulls it out of her ass because she she does with everything
Your ass is a sword like weapon
I'll tell you cat marvel's ass ain't like a saint. It's like a pancake like weapon
Oh
We we love captain marvel here actually no yeah, we do yeah plenty of falcon is the weird sword
And again, none of these none of these you know, there's explanations for all of this. It still wouldn't help her character at all
Oh
Lightsaber and I mean we see that in the force awakens and even more directly in the last jedi
When ray picks up the lightsaber and starts swinging the thing around and she swung a staff and then she swung a sword
That means they're the same
And the way she was swinging that thing around did not establish her with any level of competency
That rock didn't stand a fucking chance
The rock got fucking obliterated
Yeah
I don't know what i'm doing
But you guys get the point and of course somebody had to comment back on my thread on twitter about this and say um
Actually, i'm a martial artist and a sword and a stuff
So can you believe it find us on twitter in some fucking expert some asshole
Expert told me I was way wrong, but fuck that guy, but I corrected him
It is a sword black weapon. God damn it
I'm sure he's drawing off a well of experience and knowledge on the subject
Fucking so-called experts. Fuck him. Look mr. Martial art fighter. What are you talking? I make star wars videos on youtube
I know a thing or two about weapons
I'm flawed by the idea that he's talking about a specific subject someone who claims to be an expert gives him information. He's like fucking
Expert is coming up to me with a shit
fucking
I want like there might be a lot of people who actually aren't aware of my background and you know, youtube channel and stuff
So when I talk about weaponry and combat and stuff, it's coming from experience with historical swordsmanship
Okay, I train in it and I study it for most of my life. So
Trust me guys. I was a scavenger on jack who uh, I think I know my way around
There we go, we hit it right from shad mostly everything is a sword like weapon. Thank you, dude
You're welcome
She probably had youtube on on jacou. So, you know, she spent a lot of time watching sword tutorials jack you too
jack tube
Sword and a staff are two entirely different weapons. So she wouldn't know how to use them and so then I say
We're in space movie. Oh so it doesn't make sense then
Space movie
The man who's been using an attempt at logical arguments for the past like five fucking main statements suddenly goes logic doesn't even matter it's a space movie
I can't explain my shit. It's a space movie for kids
Okay, fucking hell
Remember when forest gump force choked a man to death. Well, it doesn't have to make sense
It's a comedy you can do anything remember that animated movie where they all ripped each other to shreds toy story
My toys didn't have to make no sense
Remember in drastic park when the dr. Hadouken never fell off the raptor. It's a movie about dinosaurs. Why are you complaining?
I've said before reaching giving up. This is the bedrock of giving up. It's like it ain't supposed to make sense
Like okay, I hate that argument so much and people bring it up. It's fantasy. It's not supposed to be realistic
Of course, that's why there's gravity in the world, you know, like oh, yeah. Well
Hang on gravity. Yeah, no gravity fair enough, but calm down
Sword like weapons shad really you're gonna pull the same kind of thing. We should sword like weapons. Come on
Seriously, I mean seriously
I'll get back to that a little bit later and also
I mean it just kind of makes sense
How if I had a stick like weapon and then was given another stick like you just you just oh my god
You already made
Isn't a stick
Any end
Oh, it looks like it looks like the sword trees are coming in nicely this year might be a bumper crop
Oh
The katana bush right sake if you have no argument don't make it
You know like it the idea that you your actual argument is I have no argument like just you just you're being redundant
Just say just say it doesn't fucking make sense. Yeah save us the fucking time
Jesus christ
Like weapon
Then I could probably put two and two together and apply some skills that I know from that skill
To a newfound shad tell us about self-taught swordsmanship versus trained swordsmen
Well, it depends what you mean by self-taught. You can you were a scavenger on jackoo with a stick
Okay
If you didn't have anyone to train with regularly
Uh, no your your skills are probably gonna be really and again if it's just with a stick
She could get competent with this stick. Okay, but only certain things would translate to a sword and there's
Yeah, there's certain moves that would
Throw you off completely and a lot of technique and I mean a lot of technique that you would be
wholly oblivious to
That is related to swordsmanship if you are only ever using a quarter staff
And if you're fighting someone who is aware of those techniques, they will trash you like
Complete hey, hey shad just just a year ago
Did you see yourself in the future justifying self-taught stick like craftsmanship on on a live stream the 3000 people?
Oh, of course
You don't foresee this kind of thing. It's the peak of a career
That's why he got into this business
well, it's funny like
On my channel. I do
Argue in support of
Self-teaching yourself swordsmanship because there's actually a lot of good online resources you can look to
I'm, not sure ray had the internet. She could look up
Besides what have the resources relax she gets in the jacuzzi
That was great don't don't abandon that one don't encourage me brags keep going
Brags we've we've got a that's pretty good. We're only just passed halfway. Oh, yeah, we are halfway now. We did it with five minutes past halfway
hooray
Well, we'll edit some edit some confetti and uh, like some kazoos in post
Wow, wow, that's amazing. You see it coming. Well, it comes to the top. It's so colorful. Wow
Yeah
What are we talking about millennium falcons of sword like weapons what?
We were talking about how shad began earlier by saying
He was beating the shit out of his brother who was a total novice with melee weapons and here we are in that
Something I remembered randomly all of a sudden this is where it just seemed topical
it's a great video actually and it's if you ever want to get an insight as to
The the level of difference like you ever see those fights where a swordsman is just trashing heaps of people
And it's if they're because they're it's untrained
It's actually precedent for that if you actually watch someone fight who has some measure of knowledge in you know
Swords and ship fighting someone who has no measure
It's amazing how like the skill difference and how easy it is to beat them
The contest is almost non-existent. I take umbridge with you describing one of your videos as great and i'll tell you why
That implies that some of them aren't
Which is offensive to me share
Yeah, i'm I I should have more faith in my own work. Yeah. Thank you. I'll remember that
You are the merry sue of youtube. How does it feel?
Oh, I would say it's balanced out quite nicely by my mini character flaws. Oh neat. Yeah, okay
You know what one of them is
What's that? I didn't like far from home done. I mean a lot of people didn't you're right
Uh-huh. There we go
Skill or technique the only reason why ray was able to wait. Sorry. Did he just flash on screen or did I skip forward?
I think i'm gonna skip forward
Sorry, let me play that again. That was terrifying together and apply some skills
I know from that skill to a newfound skill or technique the only oh he did
He fucked up
I knew something terrified me
He didn't drag his uh, his footage together there's a little gap and underneath it I guess
He was still playing. How do you know that wasn't on purpose right? He's like a dun dun dun dun. Well
Yeah, I did that it was in my last video
There was a tiny little moment where one of my dog transitions
Was just barely there's a little bitty moment where he just wasn't on screen. You were just a blip
The problem is that editing software is not a soar like weapon so he's not
Oh
And there's the explanation is it
All right one more time to that I say we're in space movie, but i'll get back to that a little bit later
And also
I mean it just kind of makes sense
How if I had a stick like weapon and then was given another stick like weapon
Then I could probably put two and two together and apply some skills that I know from that
I like i'm, sorry
That statement implies that stick fighting is like a craft that has been honed like to fight with stick
It's like you do want to know that sticks. They're not consistent
There's a lot of different types of space movie. Most people probably don't resort to using sticks as weapons, but it's stick
It's a false equivalence in what i'm what is saying you're saying
Some things would transfer and you know, yes, some things would transfer but you know what's happening in the movie
All skill is transferring. In fact, she is arguably better with the lightsaber than she is with the stick
And so what you're arguing here isn't exactly what's happening. It's not justifying what you're saying false equivalence
If she was fighting some random guy who didn't you know have a never picked up a lightsaber because okay
Finally makes sense, but this guy's supposed to be trained for years
Yeah, people say there that he was injured that that would affect his fighting ability
Being injured, of course does affect your ability to some measure
But then you can gauge how injured he is by the level of mobility
He has in the scene and he has pretty full mobility
Okay, and his head isn't injured
He would still know the technique and stuff and when it comes to sword fighting in particular
It's one of those kind of realms in which strength isn't a huge
Benefit and it and offers certain certain benefit, especially when you want to obtain leverage in the bind against your opponent
Strength has a benefit but in regards to many other aspects
swordsmanship is one of those areas in which you don't need strength to be able to be very competent and
Skillful in it and even if he has lost a bit of strength because of his injury
Um, he would still be fighting at a way higher level than ray in my opinion
Yeah, but you're kind of biased you know stuff
Damn my research if only this wasn't a space movie. Yeah, I was gonna say what do you know about space chad?
What do you know of space exactly?
I mean, yeah, have you had experience with force dad?
Like, you know clearly it's the force here because kylo he is kylo
He doesn't have the force in this fight scene
I mean he like is injured and so if he's worried that his physical ability might not be up to spot up to par
You would assume that his force of powers should be still high and if he has the ability to stop a blaster bolt in flight
He could have just thrown ray a hundred meters picked her up snapped her neck force choked her
But he decides not to do that because he's going to rely on it
You know a skill that is based on physical ability when he's injured
And even though I still think he would be able to beat ray with his while being injured
Clearly the force ability he has here should have been out. I just destroy ray. I was I was partially disappointed like
Radler media. Um, I love the show those guys, but they're like, oh, I still stupid that people think it's ridiculous that ray beat him here
It's like why though like he was shot in the kidney. He's bleeding. He's not even trained. It's like he was trained by snoke and luke
He also did something that we've never seen before where he literally grabs a force bolt
Like sorry a blaster bolt in the air. That is like a oh crap moment. And honestly, it was really cool
That was like, okay, they're sitting up this guy to be powerful. Wow, this guy isn't a weiner at all
I know
and then
They don't don't like they don't play on that at all
He should be able to just literally pick her up and rip her limb from limb with the force ability
Yeah, he should just force choke her. He'd just be like, yeah, he did that
He picks her up and throws it but then he just doesn't later
He's like why why why are you doing kylo?
If I was a jedi, I would abuse the shit out of I would be that guy in the server
Everyone calls a faggot. I would be
I would be abusing that stuff all the time. How do you buy you fly you break your neck choke you?
Uh turn you around spin you throw rocks here. I ain't getting I don't want to get close to a lightsaber
I know this is the thing you'd go as far as be like a force bad thoughts and you're just like your your mother hates you
And they're like, oh no. Oh man, you're like, uh, I can get the jump on them now
You know, she's bitching. He's trying to pull the lightsaber to him and somehow she's able to pull it anyway
Right it goes past him. I guess it's it's it's more his than it is his
Are they gonna jerk in episode nine?
We'll care to explain how mas canata ended up with a lightsaber that fell down a fucking like shoot in bespin
Nope. Nope. Why the fuck would they explain that? Well, it's a story but for another time
And maybe that time is never oh, yeah, and the obvious thing that uh, wildness chatting
I think wilderness chatting someone I think we mentioned this on the part one
But uh pain and anger is supposed to fuel sith
So if you're in pain and you've been wounded that's supposed to make you go. Oh, fuck you
I'm gonna be even better now
But no apparently made him worse
People in my discord are posting pictures holding chopsticks a stick a laptop a plate and they're saying these are all sword-like weapons
Everyone who uses chopsticks should be out of the just pick up when I say that trash
I mean it's kind of like a stick. I don't know a story
So
To a newfound skill or technique the only reason why ray was able to best kylo
Rin in the fight at the end of the force awakens was because she called. Oh, that wasn't anything kylo did
it
It was the force. Why would the force choose her over kylo?
Who's been using the force this entire life?
Let's say it was like a beyond a shadow of a doubt that that was the case. How fucking unsatisfying is that?
Oh, okay. She called about the force to win it for her. Okay, so she's the equivalent of a hacker
Yeah, classic dais ex machina where the force is always going to say today because the force
I mean, well, okay. So what if someone said well, that's what happens in a new hope
Luke doesn't beat darth vader in new hope doesn't beat darth vader in their first fight like even if well we're talking about the death star
right technically
Even if there's all the reasons in the world you don't want to if you're having a trilogy
You don't want your hero character to beat the bad guy in the first movie easily. Oh, totally
Well, I was gonna say I have my own camera
I was gonna let you guys jump in on it
So if someone said why is it that this isn't applicable to luke and I think using the force to to nail the death star
Well, I would say a couple of reasons one technically luke only saves the day because of han showing up and saving him
And you could try and say that's dais ex machina, but no that was kind of foreshadowed
Yeah, it was kind of foreshadowed with you know
Han's whole character arc and it is completed by the fact that he comes in and saves the day and so
That's if you try and argue it's a dais ex machina. It's a far more palatable and acceptable one and
So that's the first thing set up
Exactly. It was set up and foreshadowed quite nicely and luke only briefly gets the you know, like
You could say he would have made the shot without the force
We don't know how much force is actually helping luke out in that situation
Yes, he gets the obi-wan whispering in his eyes and he turns off the thing
But he did say he could eyeball those type of targets already in his other ships. And so
That's not saying the force comes in and saves the day
And the reason why if you're going to try and use the force in the ray example
Why it is very unsatisfying because you're basically taking the rules away from the force, you know that it's it's
Undefined how it works and therefore it is only coming in in service to the plot, which is
absolutely dais ex machina
I was a part of the argument. I was gonna make it along with what you've just said is that um
So the force user is fighting a force user and force user b
Decides to use the force against force user a and defeats him. You're like, why couldn't force user a defend himself?
How does that work does the force just decide that it's gonna power up ray and not kylo
Not the death star was like I will use the force to defend myself
It's like no, I don't think that's how that works
So just say ray beat him with the force like doesn't kylo have the force
Exactly. Exactly. And I mean you would think the dark side of the force would have as much invested in kylo
When if not more light side of the force exactly and so where's the dark side backing up kylo here, you know
It gives people i've been saying in chat that they're fueled by pain rage and anger and is pretty darn
You know on edge emotionally here
He should be getting a huge power up if you're following through logically and consistently
With how even the vague rules that exist within star wars and how the force works if you even follow those vague rules here
Kylo should be getting a power up. You should be going for snuts
To death star as a force like weapon
He just killed his dad shouldn't that like shouldn't that be the dark side be like wow, you just sacrificed your own father
Wow, that was fucking metal, dude. That was pretty beat
Yeah, so
And this is the other thing by the way as far as I was to understand it the dark side gives you access to more power
But at risk of like you have less control
You're emotionally driven like crazy
You'll hit people around you as well as yourself like there's supposed to be a drawback
Well, it's interesting like if you actually go into the philosophy underpinning, uh, the force in star wars
there are some interesting implications because
It's never really implied directly that
The light side of the force is good and the dark side of the force is evil
What they're actually saying is the light side of the force is about balance and the dark side of the force is about emotion
attachment and passion and things and
That's got interesting implications, especially when obi-wan in
The last of the prequels says that only a sith deals in absolutes
That's a very loaded and definitive statement there because it's essentially applying. I mean
Wouldn't you want the jedi to believe in absolute good absolute justice and that like though? These are absolute standards, right?
It's an absolute as well though
Exactly
He states in absolute by saying that he doesn't deal in absolutes
So to me when I first heard that I was like, okay, that was badly written
Whoops
I honestly think george might have missed that like he was like
Absolutes are bad. It's like that sounds pretty absolute
Yeah, and the fact that the jedi insist you give up all material attachment
I don't think is fully moral in my opinion
You want to be attached to certain things in the world like your loved ones or I do want to protect your loved ones
And things like that
but the the jedi are saying no no attachment you have to have no attachment or give up on them and
Then it kind of contradicts the fact why the the jedi they're they're constantly protecting people when their main goal should be
Balance and if their main goal is balance
They would like there's there are contradictions in the underlying philosophy is what i'm saying
Yeah, yeah, sorry for going off on that. It's all good
I was gonna say I want to bring in uh, just beowyn made an argument
Um, you guys are missing the biggest point kylo was not trained as a scavenger on jakku
He was trained by trained by elite guards and sith lords and yeah, what a scrub
I've heard about but never really fully grasp until the end of that film. That's like how did she grasp that?
Well, if you remember kylo says I can teach you the ways of the force and then she goes the force
And then she channels something and just wins
It's really satisfying. I know what the force is but if you're out there help me
I've heard that I swear
It's so boring. It's like okay. She won because he mentioned the force and she was like, oh fuck. Yeah that shit. Uh,
Go
Go force do your thing
Like yeah, you nailed it this scene goes on for like there's like six seconds of ray just like sitting
In the middle of a sword fight breathing slowly
Kylo is like wait. So do you agree you want my team? What's happening?
She's thinking about me in chat
For yes, you're as the sword fighting connoisseur here. Um, what are what's the general?
Um advice when it comes to uh closing your eyes for long periods of time in a sword fight
Well, if you have the force then of course it's sort of it's like a charger right she's charging
It's absolutely stupid
But what we're seeing here the swords crossing and then the opponent staring off at each other
Uh is one of the most bull crap and pervasive things in hollywood regards to sword fighting
Because in real sword fighting what they do there that's called the bind when the swords clash
They're in the bind and when you're in the bind there are so many things you can do
to
Manipulate your opponent's sword to open up to bring an opening and attack and if the opponent is static and not doing anything
You can just destroy them so quickly from this position
And so the fact that you know weapons where most of it doesn't even have mass
Yeah, like my goodness and and so if if ray just angled her if she took a step to her right
And angled her sword on point to kylo
She would smack kylo in the head completely
um
And the only way kylo would be able to respond to that is if he moved his sword to
The side to counteract this left he positioned it to be it on his center line
And so whenever you're in the bind
It is a constant dynamic moving thing as the opponents try to get the advantage on one another
If they're trying to win there is never a static pause when your weapons clash like this in real sword fighting
Yeah, like that other person is trying to kill you
Yes
You will do something about that
Oh absolutely
And so yeah, the the whole hollywood trope that they're just playing on here. It's bull crap
But of course you see it so often in so many hollywood sword fights
Ah, I see you have trained since last we met robin hood
We're not considering that the shape of the eyes is around so they're not sword-like weapons
So they just get in the way of fighting or mace-like weapons closing off the non sword-like weapons will power up your sword-like weapons
Your eyes are really more like um morning stars mostly because they cry that's the
Um, it makes sense to me. I don't see why is there any more discussion
Even coming those those are halfway through baby
Pieces of character development and it's still completely dumb founds me how some people aren't able to grasp the sponsor
Seeing that scene of her just so calmly standing there is like how is he not just pushing your own sword into your face
Right now. He is so much stronger than you
I've seen him shirtless. He is so much stronger than you. That's true
I like that this the same guy
Uh, sort of real quick the same guy who's advocating that it doesn't make sense on purpose is saying he's dumbfounded
That people don't understand the logic
Like I thought okay
All right, tell me about logic
Just in that in the sword clashing scene with the paws and the eyes closing and stuff there are
Thousands of things that either opponent could have done to get the event
I mean one of the most simple things kyla could only just give her a solid boot in the chest
And knock her off the cliff like it was
Oh, yeah
About a million ways that this fight does not go her way and it just does it's like okay
She would force fly back up to the top or some shit
Like I said, she would turn him into atoms i'm waiting for that to be something she does to somebody
Completely dumb founds me how some people aren't able to grasp this concept
And if you look at the majority of the final duel between her and kylo ren
It's mainly just ray running away and jumping around to avoid kylo ren and this supports the argument that she should beat him
Okay
Yeah, uh while you're playing clips of her blocking his blows and turning around and okay. Sure. Yeah, uh, that wasn't
Wasn't really the oh
I thought this is before this the force would just increase your reaction time, you know, it'd make you better at things
You already knew how to do it didn't impart
Wisdom a knowledge on you that you didn't know didn't say. Oh now, you know how to
It's not the matrix. It's fucking binary with ray. It goes from not learned at all to fully layered. You're like, oh
I have a master of all things
question my ability
She's going by the tree. Ah, this is cypress
I just if she ever met vader and they compare their abilities and she's just better than him and he's like wow
How long did you train and she looks at him like, huh?
He's like, yeah, actually, you know
I entered uh school late at like, you know, nine years old and I was in this till I was like 21 and
I trained under the emperor. It was like one of the most powerful people ever
And I became pretty powerful but but you know, what about you? Like, you know, how long have you been training? She's just like sweating
Like
I absorbed your ability when you fathered me
Oh, right. Yeah
This is gonna be such
This is the thing like sorry, she inherited luke's ability when he grew when she grew out of his hand. That's all right. I'm getting confused
Um
I was thinking about like how you know
Some people are upset that I won't be able to get my tfa series done before episode nine comes out and it's like yeah
but
You realize that whatever happens in episode nine will drastically be able to to improve my scripts because i'll have answers
Because imagine I think that jj is going to answer a couple things
He's obviously going to create more questions than provide answers, but we will get answers to some stuff
For example raise parents that's been answered like seven times already. We're finally going to get an answer on that probably
I swear to fucking crisis. Someone says your parents don't matter to her in that movie
You just got voted
Tell me very end of the fight when all hope seems lost for wow
Look at her running away and not totally blocking every single blow that he makes towards her
Did you already just said it's like she's constantly running away and when she's at a wits end she wins. You're like, oh wait
What?
Oh, right
It's like the opposite of what was supposed to happen. But okay
It's not like kylo rin being surprised by ray besting him was also supposed to surprise us the audience as well
because
It kind of surprised me because I wasn't expecting that now it surprised him because he wasn't expecting it
Thank you for explaining what a surprise is
That makes it good
Do you know why he wasn't expecting it because it's dumb because it wouldn't make sense. Yes, because it's dumb. That's
Why if only kylo knew that he was in a space movie, you know, I'd have been more prepared
I lived my whole life in a world where things don't make sense
Now we aren't sure about how ray is so strong in the force just yet
But keep in mind that there's still one chapter left in the so so your other argument is that they might explain it at some point
Okay
I'm sure they'll tell us guys
I'm sure they'll fill us in on all the
Supposed to be an argument for why it all makes sense. And she's a great character and your argument literally is
Wait for the next episode, I don't know
I'm sure this guy's a nice guy. Okay
His argument here is that ray is not a mary sue because it's going to be explained in the next movie
I know i'm you know, not completely equivalent to what people said that about tlj
They're like tlj will explain him very soon as it was like it didn't and they were like, okay
Fuck, uh, the next one will okay episode nine. What i meant to say was episode nine
And then when that doesn't they'll be like, oh i'm at episode 10
Episode 746. Yes, the books will explain it all
Downloaded the force from the pirate bay
Oh
Oh, sorry about the force on a really suggestive frame here like what is luke doing behind ray and ray has a certain expression on her face
I'll tell you what he's doing. He's like hey ray do whatever the fuck you want and then he's disappointed that she was confused
I hate this scene. It's so dumb like the force is everything check it out. She's like, oh neat
Then he's like, whoa, why are you checking it all out? What the hell?
I did not tell you to do that. You're an evil
He unironically like condemns her when she's up absolutely confused. She said they're like, oh the fuck just happened
I like I got splashed with water. There was some dark stuff
Am I evil now? He's like, yes. He's like, oh fuck. Yes. I was like, oh damn
That was that it didn't expect that with how the system would be but yeah, yeah, that's how it works. Them's the brakes
The dark side is it's it's oddly stick like I can't explain it
This is it
Feels familiar
Equal trilogy. It's obvious that she isn't supposed to be in the story, but dude, why do I feel a stick like object?
Sorry, what it's obvious. She wasn't supposed to be in the story. What was that?
I want to hear what he just said audience as well
Because it kind of surprised me because I wasn't expecting that
Now we aren't sure about how ray is so strong in the force just yet
But keep in mind that there's still one chapter left in the sequel trilogy
It's obvious that she isn't supposed to be in the story
But brings up a great theme that anyone can
It's obvious that she's not supposed to be in the story
What does that mean? I didn't want to translate that for me
Okay, I think what he means is not supposed to be this powerful in the story
It's like what it's a surprise it's a surprise. She's so powerful in the story and that there seems to be an explanation
Don't know what he's supposed to be arguing against
She's not a very
Maybe what he's trying to say is that she
Came from nowhere and got involved in all of these major players in this
Galactic story that was playing out the resistance and the first order and the skywalkers and leia
And han solo and all this stuff happening between these two factions and she had nothing to do with it
But then she got swept up in it
That makes more sense
That makes more sense. His things worded with
Greatism, but if anything that just makes us wonder
Why is she sticking around what if she's not involved with this in any way not supposed to be then why is she even here?
Why does she care?
What's the point? What's going on here?
What a strange thing to say
I do not understand the galaxy
Whether you have famous blood or not and even snoke says well, it was a stone that doesn't matter
What's pose famous blood? What's fin's famous blood? I was gonna say do you think anyone would have a problem with you know?
Don schmooch and he trained for 60 years and he has a good handle on the force
It's like a really great handle on the force. Do you think any of us would have a problem with that?
We'll be going he's supposed to be a skywalker
He's not he's not a Kenobi
Wrong. It's like no
We just wanted to be earned beyond say she's not even got the right blood. She's got nothing. She's got no training or blood
Wasn't he arguing to be red coned? I reckon yeah like kyle was lying
Yeah, wasn't he arguing in the beginning of the video that she did have you know
She was like, oh luke inherited the the pilot the piloting blood from his father
I assume he was arguing that ray was inheriting this piloting blood from someone else too
I
I'm just gonna draw it back
Act and save the galaxy
Whether you have famous blood or not and even snoke says in the last jedi directly to ray
That darkness rises and light rises to meet it. Yeah, which is really fucking stupid
The idea being that they always have to reach a constant balance
Like i'm sorry
so when all the jedi were in power during the prequels you telling me that palpatine was supposed to be the direct like
Opposition to them and then when anakin was half and half, how does the force figure that out?
Does that have like a little abacus? It's like oh
That way the middle
All right, alec anakin you have reached balance, uh, you're ascending into nirvana or whatever your jedi master now
Good job. You got to balance, uh really early, but uh, good job. The murder probably helped accelerate that
Uh, but um, yeah, yeah, good job because for clarification
That is not george lucas's intention with balance what the disney are doing disney are like good and bad guys equals balance
It's like george's like no, no, no, no. Yeah, literally just jedi is balanced sith calls imbalance
Wouldn't that wouldn't that make it mean that the jedi are like highlander like if they went around killing each other
They'd absorb the power because there's less people. Yeah
literally that
like
Fucking good it did by the way with all of the jedi being nuked obi-wan could still didn't do shit to vader
Uh, I mean in the new hope I guess he fucked him up in revenge of the south. So
There's such tismi rules man see the prompt
You know that makes sense though because luke had luke stole the balance away from obi-wan
So that's why lukas was right to just have his trilogy where the force was
Yoda died too which gave all of that
Abacus power to luke as well. That's why he bit defeated vader
Makes total sense and then he figured out the mystery luke wipes out them both
It's just luke left and then snow congeals in a cave. He's super powerful. Just like luke
He creates kylo who's 50 50 false the dark side ray is born
Makes total sense and now and now that luke's gone ray is gonna be even more power. Oh no
Enough
gently in one
That's an underrated movie
I've seen that
That darkness rises and light rises to meet it
I mean the force always has to have a balance if you're looking for a better explanation on that
Then check out the mortis trilogy of episodes in the oh, this is slightly off tangent someone linked in my uh,
general chow and discord, uh
Eric taxon who is I guess who's patricia taxon? I guess now
trans is
What so I guess is eric taxon?
trans
Now are we supposed to know who this person is? Oh, well eric is someone who's covered us previously and we've covered him back
Yeah, here. Let me someone linked to this. So I don't I don't know what's up because
His name is patricia now and they got a trans flag there
Um, but he said I just found a rags video where he says the n-word with the hard r and everything
Which i'd chance to cross this one before I finish my script prove the rags as a racialist
Yeah, I did it in my whole video
That was called rags as racist where I constantly talk about there's no evidence for me being racist or doing anything racist
And I say the the n-word
Yeah, I say it plenty in that yeah, absolutely because i'm talking about the word
Yeah, duh
I'm not hiding it. Well, you know how it works right in his world
You're done. Once you've said that word no matter the context you're done. You're just I didn't know that this was like something
He was unaware of I thought that was like obvious about me. Yeah patricia. Is that hundreds of thousands of views?
Patricia taxon is that a what's the youtube channel look like eric?
Is that eric taxon?
Oh, wow. Yeah, I guess he's renamed it to patricia taxon
Oh, oh he's he's linking a different video. Yeah, because I say it more than one video. Yeah, I thought he's talking
The the i'm sexist when I pd pie's heart is a fucking sewage pump is the video where I say it. Yeah
I guess he switched his name to patricia taxon then. All right
Yeah, okay. Yeah. Yeah, I i'm guilty is charged. Yeah
Well, there's let me know what I call someone that is a racial slur
where's the thing we we don't hold to the same values as
Miss taxon, I guess would be the correct pronouns now. I have no idea if this is even what they're going going for or not
but um
so
me and rags i'm not going to speak for anyone else here, but me and rags are very much
Intent on judging someone's use of language based on their intention and the context. It's never about the word on its own
um, the easy counter to this would be so what if you're quoting someone who said it and what if it's in a
What's what's the book rags? That's now evil because it's in the book. That's the adventures of huckleberry fin
Yeah, that's an evil book now. Um, lord of the rings
Has um a certain word associated with a bundle of sticks, uh, and also the hobbit as well. Oh does it?
I didn't do that. Yeah
I gotta reread those books
Um
but yeah, so you can actually grab the hobbit and open it and read you the uh
The section because I know exactly where it is. I just want to highlight by the way from that tweet
So as rags read it out, um patricia taxon said
I just found a rags video where he says the n-word with the hard r and everything wish i'd chance to cross this before I
Finish my script. So so two issues one
That's all it takes to be labeled the bad man from their side
It doesn't matter how you said or why he said it too. He can't be bothered to fucking edit his script
He's like oh, it's done. Fuck it. Yeah, it's like if I found information that would be oh
It's a destructive death blow to my enemies and i'd be like, yeah, I should probably put that in my script. Nah, fuck it
I already wrote it down guys. What am I supposed to darn?
He said the naughty word the sill he said this I can't I can't believe we get another video from
eric on you
Yeah, it's only like an important social justice thing that i've take very seriously
But I can't be bothered to sit down and fucking rewrite some shit
Yeah, you know racism is so important, but yeah
Fucking hands are tired
So this is the thing that everyone should go
Was everyone should go read hobbit page 47
The hobbit page 47 everybody wait wait, will it taint them? Will will they become evil having read it?
This is this is the thing man like
The only way to judge this perfectly is to actually get to know someone and their core values and how they actually explore this shit
And we're back he can wonderfully rename rename remain nameless, but fringy was in the conversation for this
We spoke to somebody who publicly referred to me as a homophobe and I went over the use of certain words
And once you define how and why you use them and for what reasons they're stuck
They literally in a corner because they're like, okay, but but you have no idea
They don't I don't think they expect you to have a system basically like the reason me and rags use certain words where we
We use them. We take everything very seriously
We may we're very fun, right like we want to create a fun environment, but everything we say has a lot of purpose behind it
Yeah
I'm getting heaps of requests for me to read this section go for it if you want to
The context the dwarves have just arrived at rivendell and the elves meet them and they start singing a song
And there are four verses in the song and i'll just only read the second verse and it says
Oh, what are you seeking and where are you making the faggots are reeking the bannocks are baking?
The valley is jolly ha ha
And clip clip that shadivistic exposed
Handsome shadow versity hashtag
The thing is with these people it is literally to them the vibrations of the sound waves in the air that you
Created that is the sin
Your your your usage of it the context of it
It doesn't matter if you make the vibrations in the air if it comes out of your mouth
Regardless of context you have sinned I had to explain to joseph anson on twitter
Like you read the hobbit
Now you're uh, you're worth, uh, you know the crucifixion like
Yeah, speaking of that word specifically I had to explain to joseph anson on twitter because he he believed I was using it
Like derogatorily towards homosexuals and I was like, no, no, no, it's an absurdist statement
I am calling because I called him a massive faggot. So it's a large game
that makes
So I was trying to tell him I was like calling you a large game makes no sense at all
That's why it's funny and he was like, no, I don't see how that's a joke
And I was like, so if I called you a lamp like did you get how that's absurd?
And he was like how is calling someone a lamp the same as large gay? I was like, okay
Same as large this is my video is a fucking meme factory. He was he was fucking joke policing me
It's so funny how absurd they are
Well, they want you to be evil they can write you off the second you're evil they could write you off
Oh my god
That is hilarious
It's all just he could talk to me because he could talk to me at any time. He wants I am an open book
Does it just for context does everyone know what the word is referring to you in the hobbit a bundle of sticks
Is it referring to a bundle of sticks? That's what the original word meant before it was repurposed
I said that till we just found some of the possibility and he was like no one uses it to mean that I was like, okay
You know token one of the greatest writers of our time did you know just just a small guy
Was was he fluent in stick craft? I don't think so
He was like, um, he was what a professor of language like what a faggot
What a massive
All right. Anyway, it's weird if
You will
You will never find me
In a serious context calling someone a racial slayer to actually insult them
No, I wouldn't expect so it's it's just the most weird because but to them context doesn't mean anything right the the reason why you say it
Well, you give what you're referring to you give power to the words the words oppress people and then it gets really confusing
because like I said fringy was in the call with me and he used a certain word that you're not allowed to use and then the
Guy was like shocked the free was like I'm black and he was like, oh and it was funny to watch him squib because you can't
The thing the rules are all confusing it's like a black person is allowed to use it you're like, wait, what why how
Like how does that make sense? Like well, they were they they cut
Because if you think everyone should be allowed to say the same word you're racist
I've just read in the um a super chat that groutes in guardians of galaxy is by definition
We are fact
Let's fucking crack in the universal code right
We're such evil terrible people yeah, stop stop laughing 3 000 viewers you racists what's wrong with you
Stop having fun. It's funny that it's also funny that knowing your show's co-hosts that you're a homophobe mauler
Rip it's really kind of weird
I it's a shame that the news finally had to be broken to me in this way
Yeah, so well, I mean, you know jay is also very commonly here you and wolf you all you're all interested in in the man's side
Of life as well as the week, you know, jay jay is I believe bye
Um, and I put up with all of you. I put up with all of you just for the views. I don't like any of you
The person who does all of the art for my channel
She's brown. How am I really shitty racist?
You're shitty, right? I'm the underworld's shittiest racist like fuck. I was supposed to hate you. Damn it. Let me make a note
Brown and a woman. Oh, hey, we've got one of them in the stream today. How dare you?
Yeah
Yeah, I I hate I hate people like that, you know hall monitors
Pretty much. Yeah, it's fucking patronizing pieces of shit
I
The word just can't just it's gonna deplete your melanin if you hear that word
Well, they were all at a table having a laugh people out there who say the word
Destroy you we go back before having lost this some guy in the corner like hey, hey
racist
Okay, billy you're doing great. You're doing great. He's like yeah
I'm gonna tell someone about this
Oh
Apparently there's a longer thing. Um
On second thought I don't know if I need to mention in my videos
oracle methods
Whereas this is just him being a shit
I guess I don't even know if I have rhetorical methods. I I actually couldn't
I don't even know I just talk like a talk. I don't there's not a system to it
Rhetorical just naturally say the n-word. What's a rhetorical method?
I don't know. I can't wait to find out. Um, he says granted he's not using it to refer to anyone
But he is using it as part of his sincere defense of someone else saying it to refer to someone
And then an hour later he tweets god he's saying it constantly how did everyone miss this dude he unironically has played
He's unironically playing trace the racism. He's like, how far does it go?
He's following a big line like
Um, it's funny that he came back an hour to the same thread
Can you believe that no one's been killed yet?
Well, this is the thing when you live inside a fucking bubble on the internet
You have no idea that there are whole cultures that have no fucking issues with certain words
Like it you know shad you can back me up on this but australia using the word cunt is not exactly that harsh at all
Uh, no, there's a heaps of people. I mean i'm a very clean spoken individual myself. I'm a good boy, but i'm like
I know it's shocking, right? But uh, so that that that word is used
you know
that word's used, uh quite frequently by people who use colorful language and
And yeah, it's it's more accepted in australia than others
Yeah, what i'm saying is like there are some cultures that will be like that's the worst thing you could say it's like oh
Is it?
And then the other you know in australia the worst thing you could probably say is gonna be different
Yeah, no one seems to give a shit the the analogy I gave to the guy I was talking to with that conversation
I think I mentioned this on efap before I was like
What if the culture emerged from the amazon that was previously undiscovered and they said toilet was the most offensive word you could ever say
Would you stop using it? And he was like, no, that's ridiculous. I was like, oh
Interesting how that works. He was like, yeah, but that's like a tiny group of people
I was like, okay
So what if it was a huge like millions of try they lived underground they hadn't been found they came from space
They said toilet was offensive sending all the cops to stop
This is this is the thing it was established then that he was like, okay
Yes, and i was like so it's literally down to the unit measurement of amount of people before a word is not allowed to be used
It's not about what it means or how it was used. It's literally the amount of people that find it offensive
How fucking arbitrary is that?
Um, I actually clicked on the link to the video this old video from 2017
The the pewdiepie's hearts a fucking sewage pump where the uh guys from the podcast were making fun of pewdiepie when he said the n-word
What's interesting? I looked at the comments
What's interesting is the second comment?
And this is so this is so topical. It's a coincidence, but it's this
Oh
Oh
Yeah, well egoraptor has actually kind of flushed his history down the toilet now
Sorry using the word toilet. I didn't mean to offend. Uh, so he's he's he's basically gone
To the point of being like i'm sorry for everything I did in my you know online personality up to now
It's just like egoraptor. You're one of the funniest fucking people back in the day
And
In the in the sixth comment is a black person says he didn't care if people say the n-word
It just doesn't matter. Yeah. Well, he can't speak for all black people some some other white dude can though
People can only speak for black people if they have the right opinions on what black people should be thinking exactly. That sounds fair
That makes sense
It's a strange. So anyway star wars
A sword-like weapon
I just love for certain people. It is hilarious
Uh, yeah, i'm gonna hit play now gonna be wonderful all right nigger
Did you just use a sword-like weapon upon me
We couldn't possibly go 24 hours without it happening we should have prepared for this everybody hit the button escape button
This is obama get down
A better explanation on that then check out the mortis trilogy of episodes in the clone wars
As they describe it really well there too. Can you just describe it for us? No
Okay, could you give us a religious digest version no
Go do your homework if you want the explanation jesus
Do you think this is what i'm saying is totally right
Wars as they describe it really well there too and keep this in mind
Ray is still a beginner with the force. Do not tell me ray is a beginner with the force
Do not tell me that
a beginner
Now here's a clip of her moving dozens and hundreds of rocks boulders. They're fucking big
Monday and matt would be impressed like it's literally just dragging them all out
Oh
Look a mountain. We haven't seen her do anything crazy with it yet other than lifting rocks
Yeah, it's not like we have a comparison for that
Oh right luke halfway through his training with yoda lody lifts like one was it two
It's like I think it was one. This is like oh, she could just lift all of these
And then after luke
Like yeah after luke is struggling yoda shows him. All right
I'll show you what the force can do and he lifts an x-wing
This is her like lifting multiple x-wings and it was established that lifting an x-wing was something really impressive that a master
Could just achieve like even in the prequels when um count duku tries to knock over the pillar to crush anakin after he was defeated
Yoda catches the pillar with his force powers and he is really struggling to hold on to it
I was gonna say do you remember even in empire?
Yoda like sighs like what he puts down the x-wing. What does ray do? She's she's like, oh, this is kind of annoying
Waving her fingers and she's lifting multiple x-wings
Even luke was able to do that with minimal training. Look at those fucking boulders
There's a false equivalence
Because they're rocks and because they're rocks we talked about this
Ray lifted rocks
We talked about this on a previous efap
But how much better would this scene be?
If she knew her friends were in there and that if she doesn't pull those rocks out
They're all going to die and so she struggles like hell to lift these rocks bleeding from her nose
Screaming in pain trying to move them how much more effective that would be?
Amazing that would have been such a good scene
Yeah
And even if she had to do it one at a time with great difficulty like and imagine imagine
She pulls out enough to make a make room as
Blastifier starts coming in and people start getting killed and she only gets several of them out
And get them all why are you trying to add emotional weight to a scene in the movie? I'm so sorry
I don't understand what you're talking about
It's uh, man, there's so many easy tweaks you can make even to just pull heartstrings, you know what I mean?
It's like this was designed to be the flattest most boring movie of all time
Oh
Apparently this stream has now been reported for hate speech. So we'll just link that. Okay. Well, whatever
What literally so yeah, someone responded. How can you report that when it's a woman who said it that's sexist?
Exactly
Oh, well, well, it'll probably be demonetized. I hope it doesn't get booted off youtube, but this is the stupid of youtube. So
It's very possible
There's the thing I wouldn't I don't I don't want to restrict anybody who comes on here in any way and it's not anyone's fault
If anything happens, it's just dumb rules. I've actually said for a while i'm surprised defab is still
functioning
Because it's just completely free language here, which is not uh, not something that's typically enjoyed. Uh on the internet right now
I disavow I disavow
So
Hey, the biggest complaint that I usually see about ray is that she has no training and is able to do this
Now i've watched the original trilogy again before filming this video
And guess what luke learns from obi-wan and yoga
Nothing right away
He doesn't learn anything from obi-wan and what about the fucking first time they're in the millennium falcon he's learning from obi-wan
What about that? Why is he wait, is he actually referencing by the end when he's about to leave that he's not learned anything from okay
I'm rewinding. This is this has hit my brain already training. So hey
About ray is that she has no training and is able to do this
Now i've watched the original trilogy again before filming this video and you have no excuse
Guess what luke learns from obi-wan and yoda
Nothing right away. What I mean by this is
luke fails and he learns from experience and wow
He's actually saying that just before he gets to vader. He's learned nothing from obi-wan and yoda at that point
What wow i've not hit anybody take this position before
That is insane
He must not he must have watched a different he must have watched like the ewok
Animated movies i was about to say my first response to this is did you watch the movie?
It's like well this argument begad with him saying he watched the movies. So
Hmm is he saying that or is he trying to compare luke targeting the death star and moving all the footage a couple inches
He's an empire that to
ray moving all the rocks
He's showing empire. I'm pretty sure he's talking about empire
How would luke have learned anything from yoda anyway when he had you met him at that point?
Not only is he moving rocks?
But when he goes to confront vader vader even remarks on how much he has learned and how well he's been trained
Like he falls in the carbonite chamber and he literally force jumps out of it and starts, you know
Climbing up things with the force
Yeah, he's impressive
most impressive most impressive
Everyone is taught you well
Vader even says obi-wan taught him stuff
What would kylo say some who taught you?
Yeah, well i was gonna say so find out these secrets with luke. He's like impressive. What is with ray? He's just like what?
Like you put on a cheat code like this isn't
Wait, this is just silly
Not to this
The mistakes that he makes and is able to build up experience and training ray doesn't make mistakes though
What's there to learn from him? Hey, man, he went over he went over all the mistakes earlier
Just because we disagreed and destroyed each of them does not mean they're not mistakes
Oh, okay. Okay. Remember she's too nice
Yes, even even if we assume that those things he mentioned really were mistakes
The mistake was she hit a button and the other mistake was she hit a button
Don't forget where she thought kylo was savable that pesky ray thinking she can rescue family members. What a horrible person
You better you'll learn from that you'll learn better next time
Next time someone needs your help. Fuck them
Kill them while they're sleeping
I have a feeling they're gonna flip that shit like kylo will turn out to be a good guy by the end of episode nine
Or some shit. She'll be like, oh my god, luke was wrong. Oh
Remember when you killed your father you're good now
Looks like no, no, no, that was the other I mean yes. Yes
That was me
Obi-wan Kenobi or yoda right away
But he realizes that in the end they were absolutely right
Especially in empire. There are some truth in legends. I do believe that and there are some truth in legends
I mean legends are often based off of something that has a foundation in reality. That's what he means
I just mean like wouldn't you say there is some truth in legends?
I do that all the time. I was genuinely asking because nobody else seems to have a problem with it. So maybe i'm wrong
But I don't know what he's saying this could be anything
Why is he saying that like what is that in support of?
uh
Because if oh i'm guessing it has nothing to do with the video, but it sounds quasi pseudo wise
So if he's like that in yeah, he's like a young brown table
He's still not figured out how to be dudu intellectual yet. He's on the way young brown table. He's he's lidding
There's truth in legends and ray has heard the legends thus. She has heard the truth of the force
People are saying there's too much content from this log ass stream of people to be able to tell what we've said throughout it
Anyway, like they're not gonna fucking go through it
Who from youtube is gonna watch it like a 16 hours live stream
If this asshole can tell us to go and watch a trilogy and shit, then they can sit through an efap. Okay, it's only fair
Hey long film bad
He doesn't listen to obi-wan Kenobi or yoda right away
But he also by the way
This is a this is almost a tangent now because the original point was how is she so good at what she does?
And he's like hey luke isn't very good at what he does and he doesn't really listen to what they say
It's like okay, but we're talking about their abilities. He clearly has honed his use of the force
Like that's a thing that happened
We saw scenes of it
Not to mention just general fitness and then learning the philosophy of of how the force works
Why empire was such a great little template for how training works?
Trying to cover all their bases and then they just translate that into i'm going to teach you three lessons
Teaches her one and then runs away and the one lesson was the force is like everywhere
A good good job. She's already using it. So I don't think she needed proof for that but
Congratulations, like and then you have interviews where people are asking him
Like what the lessons were not even don't even mark howell is like. I I don't know. I think there was one
I'm sure
He says he says you're seeing my train ray
Ray trained yourself. God damn it
In the end, they were absolutely right, especially in empire. There are some truth in legends
I do believe that and there are interesting things in stories and we see characters do really
There are some interesting things in stories
All right
Who disagrees who disagrees come on take it all take it all back
Controversial stake there old and controversial that reminds me of a brown tables video where he said I like some art
I dislike other art like whoa
Taking the hard positions there calm down brown table jesus. What a rattle said the n-word
That's that that would that is his n-word art is okay. Sometimes
There are some truth in legends
I do believe that and there are interesting things in stories and we see characters do really
You know larger than life beats and the fact that ray was able to do a mind trick so well on her first try
She didn't even know if that was going to work
What?
That's the justification
Your argument that's not your argument. I don't know man. I just
I operated a nuclear reactor. I didn't know that I could but I could
That's even worse
Also, how awkward is it if you're the storm trooper assigned to guard the prisoner and you stand there in front of him like that
It's like super awkward not to mention like she she fails
She fails the mind control at first, right?
He's like hey keep doing that tighten these restraints and then suddenly it just works. It's like oh
All right, then
Ignore what I said previously
I mean ray hadn't used the force up until that point and she just did it because she was in a dire situation
That's not an excuse
I don't when i'm trapped in a fucking room. I don't immediately go mind control
Well
You have super powers
Exactly now that i've seen tranoble I can walk into a nuclear facility that's melting down and just save everybody
Oh wow
I'll let this i've just been made aware of this. Uh, so rags. This is a comment from i'll just say it's somebody
Uh, hello under the thin veil of edgy humor
None of which I have found funny rags is boring without the doge avatar
He would be nothing and that graphic is a derivation of someone else's meme. What a pathetic waste of oxygen
Without the doge
That's not from eric taxon i'm not gonna say who's from but fucking hell
Oh my god, do it. Can I really not know?
It's someone
Who watches this show? So like I don't want to I don't want to you got me. I don't
Not you I don't people to dog pilot your shit without your little suit and your big ass mouth
Oh my god, but holy fuck man
What is it what is it when people like I don't know if you guys have heard of this but like me and rags have been
Referred to as soulless shells of men or that are a blight on humanity. We've been referred to as that because of this fucking stream
What the hell?
Remember when you criticized the movie I liked you soulless blight on humanity
You're the worst that humanity has to offer raisa mary sue. I think you should go to jail
Oh if I had to choose between without the doge, you know smaller I would choose a hundred jeffrey abstain
Jesus so if anything that that just says that i'm clever to prop myself up using alternative methods
Nice job rags. Apparently you gave the system
I did look if anything i'm currently proving that I have invented a system that other people will draw my shit for free
What an idiot I am
Was you're a waste of oxygen, sir. No one no one is here to to fucking listen
to this this profile picture stealing oxygen wasting
Waste of oxygen oxygen waster. How much money i've spent on pictures of my stupid fucking dog face
It's because you're stupid
freeloader
Good lord, it fuels us further to listen to these criticisms. It's like wow
All we had to do was talk about star wars. We did it
If anything I am I am supporting
um
the minority community and women by hiring my artists to draw all these images and paying them and
Helping to finance their lives stimulating the economy right racist. It sounds like slavery
He pays in a watermelon in summer's eve
Glips of you're a chest breather
I don't breathe. I just drink now. That's all i'd do fucking oxygen drink good
I thought maybe
This myth that I believe in might be able to help me out
Maybe this method I believe in will help me out the method of mind control. Why the fuck?
Guys unironically try that if you ever get kidnapped by somebody just look at them and go you will release me
I don't know man. I watched star wars. She seemed to get it to work not until the bus says so what are you talking about?
And sure enough it did and further solidified her belief in the force
Which had already been kind of solidified by hon
Yeah, so all you needed was for her to show the audience. She was aware of mind control. That's all you needed
Oh
Just anything like that
This highlights how recently she comes to be made aware that the force is even real
Yeah, you have to get hon to say yeah, by the way, it's a thing. She's like, well what?
What sam even exists? She's like, whoa mind control's real and he's like, no, I didn't say anything about my what?
Where did you where did you get that from?
I mean, it's not only that it's even if she learns about the force
There what indication did she have that she was force sensitive or had the ability to use that
Before kylo ren tries to do the mind meld thing with her and then she tries to push back
Was there any indication at all? She could use force in any measure before then?
Uh, this guy said no i'm trying to remember if there actually was any
I don't think there is
Yeah, I don't think so other than the force vision she has if you count that
Oh, yeah when she picks up the lightsaber
I want to point out that we're nearly nine minutes into this and we still haven't gotten one fucking inkling into into why she's
a great character
I think he thought defending her is not a mary sue would just fill in for that aspect too
Like if you're not a mary sue you're great
It makes sense
And sure enough it did and further solidified her belief in the force
Which had already been kind of solidified by Han Solo earlier when he told both ben and rey that it's true
All of it, but ultimately though
Wait, it's it's true
It's true that the rebels used an army of midget bears to kill the emperor. He's like
well
Yes
They sort of help if you want to reduce it to its most base form
kind of
But there's just like these weird rumors. It's like it's true that Luke was a sex pivot. He's like, whoa. Whoa
I heard he used to fuck the bears
I heard the alderaan was an inside job. What about that? He's like I I would I wouldn't know anything about that
I heard their princess was in on the whole thing. That's why she's the
Do you think it's fucked up that she calls herself the princess of a dead planet hard
He's like I wasn't ready for this I don't know
The thing is some of those conspiracy theories
Are aren't too far fetched when compared to some of the true stories
Like if he says is it true that layer and luke had a thing even though the brothers and brothers and sisters
It's like oh, well actually that one is is true. Uh
It's like he didn't know it at the time so I mean you can't blame him for it
But just yeah, sorry
It would be interesting the type of rumors that would logically exist in this world based on all the things that happened before and so
Yeah, it would have been funny if array actually met like throughout some weird ones
It's funny how he he darts between
Arguing there's no logic to it arguing his own logic to make it work and then arguing that it may not make sense
But it happened before like the three they're like almost conflicting those arguments anyway
Like the base level it's like either it doesn't like if you're gonna argue
Nothing needs to make sense and why even bother with any other arguments?
Space movie
Oh imagine that video. It's like why everything makes sense in star wars it begins like hello
My name is bulwa and here's my video to explain why everything makes sense in star wars. It's a space movie
Please subscribe to my patreon. You're like
I
Me out who cares about these complaints who cares if she can fly a ship on her first try
Who cares if she's so good with a lightsaber? Who cares about luke? I know
Shut up rags
Just admit it rags you're racist sexist and you don't like any characters that aren't women
I mean men which one is the correct one. I forget which one makes him the bad guy
I let me think about what i've been told i've been told I hate
women
and the blacks
And the gays what about the caucasians those guys are fucked up. No, they're they're all right. They're all right. Okay
And the peruvians they're they're cool too, but the other brown ones no no good no good
Yeah, white white people are basically the 9 11 of people
They look 9 12 wrapping down I don't understand
Oh need to get hit by planes
Efap after dark, this is the edgy times you hear you hear his son piker said that america deserved 9 11. What?
Yeah, dude. Oh, yeah, I bet sitch knows. Yeah
Oh
It's like a live stream he just said he just basically fuck it i'm saying it america deserved 9 11
Was it a joke? What was the context for that?
It was the same. Well, no because he originally said
That what's the name of the uh representative that is missing an eye?
Uh genn crofford
Yeah, he said that he said that the person
Fred taliban
member that blew up his eye was a hero
And then he got in the trouble for all that and then in his stream to clarify that statement. He said america deserved 9 11
How the fuck does he shouldn't like I don't fix everything. This is on twitch, right?
I would have thought twitch would boot in for someone like that
Well, but he's a brown person. Oh, he's a brown socialist. He could say
Brown
That's he said in a video game, but I love that brown fovea
This is good
Who cares about these complaints? Who cares?
It's true all of it alderaan deserved to be destroyed he's like, whoa
Said that what the fuck
I don't know how maybe you shouldn't say all of it is true
But yeah, sorry so ironically he's actually saying who cares about these complaints. It's why make a video if okay
I'll let him say it first true
All of it, but ultimately though hear me out who cares about these complaints
Who cares if she can find a ship on her first try and understand. Why are you making this video if no one cares?
This is obviously a lot of people care obviously, I mean particularly people who appreciate
logical plot progression like
No, fuck those guys
Who cares about emotionality ruined movies with with them in charge?
We won't get such amazing classics like the last Jedi and season eight it came with thrones
and fast and furious part seven
Hobbs and sure spin-off movies. Give them
I want to watch that. That looks every time I see that trailer
I just I'm a disbelief that that's where the fast furious franchise went. I think well
If you can't beat them joy to hey, hey, it could be a great film
It's not I I expect that you could be who knows how physics work in the universe
Come on, maybe the people who made the trailer just do explosion cell. Maybe there's a lot of heart in it
Who cares about ray these are space movies for kids about magical space wizards
This is like fucking dude video essay bingo
Fuck you stop insulting children like leave them alone. They deserve good content as well
Christ, I swear to god if the kids
When I was like eight years old if you just had luke swapped out with fucking jake skywalker
I would have been pissed at that point too. I'd be like, what the hell is this?
They go you're a child. You don't appreciate good things. I'm like, oh
Shut up stupid kid. The larger fan face of star wars is grown up now like
To say that is only made for kids is just ridiculous
But it explains why the toy sales are doing so good. It backfires so hard
They're trying to say it's supposed to be stupid and you're like, what the hell are you trying to say?
That's what we're arguing. It is stupid
To die on yeah, that's yeah, that's the point. It's like why why are you arguing this?
Stop caring about it. So is your movie shit or not?
I don't I don't get it. Is it a subversive masterpiece of metanarratives or is it a stupid
Silly cartoon movie made for children. That's the thing when you combine them all up. That's what it gets funny
So you have patrick will say stop caring about it's for kids
Then the person he advocates for movie bob saying it's a complex metanarrative describing the current landscape and it's like wait
But it's just for kids, right? The movie was like
Yeah
But there's there's adult themes I guess and then the next guy's like nobody cares about any of that. Anyway, it's just a space movie
It's like no we care about it
So you could just see them all get into a huge argument about just how in what way we are wrong
Maybe try to identify how we're wrong in loads of different ways
I can imagine a movie bob meme where he's just chuckling also and the caption says like laughs in cholesterol
laughs in ranch dressing
Laughs in eugenics
Most people don't even know about that
Shad for reference movie bob says that uh, the nazis ruined eugenics
He said he said he laments the fact that the nazis gave eugenics a bad reputation
He's he's quite the character we've got a lot of characters on this show
There are layers to that comment
Oh
Jenna has pointed out. Um, whoa, this is a dumb movie for children. Also. This is my inspiration for writing
Oh, that's right
It was our it was our inspiration for a fucking response podcast. So there you go. Yeah fair
He was a dumb children when he was inspired. He was a dumb children
What the fuck was a dumb children
I
Ships around they blow crap up and swing little laser swords around all out lifting rocks with their hands now
So why the fuck did you argue all that other shit then?
What was the point of all of that? This movie's so stupid. I'm gonna make an 11 minute video defending it
I like laser swords floating rocks. That does not inherently make a movie
un
Serious or you know for kids and stuff like that. There are a lot of serious movies that can have those elements in there
They're not exclusive things like
It's a I hate the member of that moon story. It's got giant worms. It's got to be for little kids
clearly
And you know, you know that game of thrones thing that's based in a fantasy world with dragons dragons
Yeah children made for kids like only kids would enjoy the children would appreciate the incest. I mean wait
Whatever what what's that this the edifice complex or something like that
There's some kind of theme we can draw
I just want to kill my dad and fuck my mom
Look whenever it doesn't matter what the rating for the thing is if it's badly written it was for kids
Or if it has fantastical elements it's for kids because you know dragons they're not real
Therefore only kids can enjoy things with dragons in them
So, how do you compare this to what brie larson said about a wrinkle in time because that just makes it seem really condescending
Jl have you seen a wrinkle in time?
Uh, no, do you know that that movie is meant for you? Do you know that?
Oh, sir
How fucking offensive is that
My fucking melanin starts tingling every time I think about that
All is oh, yo, what can you don't watch it
We'll invite you for an efap movies and we'll totally record that film is fucking bizarre. It's hilarious
Uh, that that'll be the highlight of my here
I just love that brie larson advocate that movie is meant for you. I'm gonna fucking say that like seven times when we're watching
That movie is meant for you
What does that say?
Oh
It's classic. This is the thing like around the time. I made my black panther review. I was 25 and um
The the patrick williams video. He says I don't want to know
uh a 25 year old white dude's opinion on black panther and also because he wants to know black people's opinions of black panther ever being
like
He told him of me
Because I made the video shit. Not it like oh shit
Like a 25 year old white guy, I guess this could be me. Well, he also um
If you remember he said that like why would I watch five hours of a guy angrily ranting about tlj and i was like, oh, that's me
Yay, he doesn't there speak my name but that's it
Um, oh man good memories I can't wait to bask in my coonery watch
You're offending yourself stop it
Can't stop it. You have to protect it from yourself
I just heard like 12 people drop dead
I just got lashed by my ancestors
Much more than this but george lucas has said numerous times that
Despite really heavy themes and characters and strong stuff in star wars. These movies are ultimately met
For children. What does that mean to you that it's supposed to be stupid? What is it? Why does he keep saying that?
What does that mean despite characters and strong stuff? It's meant for children
Is he trying to imply that giving out children like weak stuff and non characters?
Yeah, he's he's giving up. He's saying I don't have to defend this it's for children. Shut up. Just saying this
Then he's a child by association because he's defending this bullshit
Oh
Where did george start saying star wars is meant for kids because I only heard him say that
After the prequels started again, it was lacked in reviews like right around the time that anakin started killing children
Right around the time he sliced the children's heads off
meant for them
Like that sounded like a reactionary comment saying look everyone here at the brain
hates the prequels but kids love it because
Action fighting lightsabers and things and so that's what it was meant for
He didn't mean for the prequels to be only for kids
He made it for star wars fans hoping all star wars fans would like it and the original trilogy
Was absolutely meant for everyone not just for kids like
Oh my goodness
I never thought about that though
Like the idea that he says that and then you play the clip of anakin threatening to fucking obliterate a bunch of children
They're like this is for kids and he would just be sweating again. Like yes
Just does it. Well, what i'm saying is there's no scene where we watch him do it. Yeah, they don't show it
Right, right. Right. Well, did you show him getting burned horribly if you play that scene implied and ask him to reconcile it
I could picture be like, okay, that's not that scene
The other stuff that had like the other response like it was meant for kids
Was it because kids love learning about trade disputes and debates? Yes
Like i'll be honest with you guys. I saw it when I was so it came out in 99 so I would have been six
Because I saw it. I'm pretty sure I saw it when it was out
So I wouldn't have understood fuck all about the the trade federation
I know I didn't I just went along with it, but I was like daddy
What's a trade federation trade dispute thing? Shut the fuck up little rags. You don't know shit about trade federation
Stop we're gonna explain this little kid
I I found the prequels boring as hell when I was a kid
I found the second one boring. I remember that I remember being bored of shit with the anakin, uh padme stuff
I like the third one though a lot. That's because you're a toxic masculine male
I still love story a strong memory. I have was telling my dad. I was really gutted that I
Christopher lee was killed in the third one. I was like, no, I really like chris philly
someone died
I'm dying at everything
You're awesome
Choke like a bitch at the end daddy. Hey twice the pride double the fall is a good quote
All right, don't at me
Wait, am I the only person who knows where that's from here you guys suck. I have no idea
That's when they're facing off against count duku. Hey, shad's a good person. I'm well a powerful
The rest of you are bad people
But was count duku gay like taiwan lannister? Yes apex
There's plenty there's plenty of room on that mountaintop yes all kinds of gays
So at the end of the day, I do feel like there are a lot of logical reasons to back up
How ray is logical reason? Who the fuck cares? It's for children and apparently children
Excuse me
So, I mean he's obviously referring to the arguments is made through the video thinking that they're logical reasons
But I mean i'm sure the guy is a nice guy, but I haven't seen those logical reasons. They they are not making sense
So I have to disagree with that. No, no, he was talking about logical arguments in other people's video
Doesn't you think the old children's content is shit? Like I always reference wally i'm like that film is fucking amazing
But it's definitely for kids boy story. Oh, yeah, because that's typically known as being terrible. Uh
Masters ink fucking iron giant treasure planet
We've been through this before so many times, but just the idea that like oh, yeah children's content typically known for being terrible
No, and you can take the content that is appreciated by kids seriously and appreciate some, you know more
Sophisticated, you know story plots and character development things
Absolutely. That's generally what elevates children content to be appreciated by adults
Right. That's that's why everyone remembers and praises the the batman the animated series because they're like, oh it was like a serious series
It didn't treat us like dumb idiot children like star wars did
And there you go. If you just briefly look at chat, you just go all these suggestions including shrek shrek is there
Shrek is good shit
All right, we got a birth of a nation. I agree
Good children's content for children. Oh, yeah
Uh, there you go, uh grant lion hos explained this he's making youtube videos for kids. This isn't supposed to make sense
There you go ultimate escape card is not and I feel like it's kind of a double standard
When you try to apply the stuff for ray to luke hate that scene. Holy crap
She's just she's literally standing with her legs apart swinging it like a baseball bat from side to side
Oh, hey, she's oh my god
I remember when go ahead. I remember when the choreographer was fucking boasting bragging about
Oh, she learned the whole routine in like uh 10 minutes
Yeah, that was a complicated routine. She had
I don't know how she did it here and just swing it back and forth and you'll do the rest in post. Oh, yeah
She's doing it he goes no no no like a fucking idiot. Yeah, there you go
You know like you have bees in your hair
I don't know what accent we're supposed to be. I don't know either. I just guessing. I don't know where the choreographer is from
We should have made him pompous british, you know swing it from left right there no
You know your eyes are too close to the sky
Move your leg loop it up. Yes, of course. There you go. Why why barge bell davenport?
Jerk it up and down. Yes, stroke it gentler. Beautiful darling
Bully, sir
Why jelly it apparently makes much more sense for some reason even though it's
Kind of the exact same dumb complaint and I don't understand you didn't establish that so don't even try and make that fucking
connection
And that's and real quick. I'm also not saying that you're dumb. If you don't like ray as a character
I'll film a subject. Thank you
All of film is subjective. So why even bother making an argument?
Yeah, it's crazy how they aimed for his cross guard like
Yeah, it's weird how that works that his cross guard. I guess is made out of material
That is just as strong if not stronger than lightsabers
Yeah, that was right in the joint there yeah on the joint
Same stuff that their shields are made out of except it's upgraded to be a 100 chance of deflection
Oh, yeah, true true. Um
I like by the way
He spends all of this time making these arguments and then he makes some really stupid ones
Like it's all stupid on purpose and it's all for kids anyway
And then the final the way that you just shut the gate on this entire thing. It's all subjective
It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It's all subjective. So what I said is completely irrelevant
So you may as well just skip to this part because it's like oh, so nothing you said
Anything even to you. You don't even care about this. You're like, oh well, it's just different for everybody. Anyways, it doesn't fucking matter
I mean if it's subjective
He wouldn't even think he's actually right
He think that he would think that like there's no point making the argument then because it's just you feel you like you know
The thing fringy's been pushing this he's like I don't think any of these people actually believe that statement that everything is subjective
When it comes to I don't think they believe it
He said otherwise why make the argument why that he was obviously making these argument because he thinks is right and he would only think
Is correct if he feels that there are ways
Substantiate which would kind of edge on the objective kind of standards that we like to refer to
To be able to establish that is correct. I mean, I don't want to use the word cowardly
But it's like we put a bunch of things on a table and been like acknowledge these and then you put a bunch of
His things on the table and just before we got to actually like counter you put up a giant shield and said by the way
You can't counter this even if you tried
in my opinion
Subjective my opinions immune to your opinion, but your opinions are shit
Yeah, children suck big bad content for them
Ultimately, it's up to you, but I feel like if you're gonna call ray a mary sue
It's just an unjust claim. I can respect different opinions, but I can't respect
unjustifiably
Putting a false claim on a film or a I respect other opinions, but I can't
Justify this guy's struggling bad. He hasn't figured this out yet. You need to redraft. There's a whole bunch of times
We can justify it
A lot the amount of people that go through that justification doesn't count because
Yeah, you're terrible like if i'd love him to have a short circuit if I said, uh, ray is not in this film
She's not in the last jetline. He goes. Yes. She is. I can prove it. It's like do you not respect my opinion?
You you insult it you are you preventing me from having feelings? He'd be like no
Hey, no, I can respect specific opinions that coincidentally align with my own
It's actually an interesting counter argument
If you followed it through if because the only way they can count it is like by saying she is objectively in the film
It's like aha objective because otherwise if everything is subjective you can subjectively believe ray is not in that film at all
Like and it's valid
The only way that you could believe that is that you've never seen the film
But that's what everybody's told you and so you take their word for it
And then you can sincerely believe she's not but then one person says yeah, she's the main character and then you know it would
And then it all comes crashing down
It's so untenable
I don't think they think it through at all and for some reason there's this air of like, you know
It's easy to prove as well, especially having shad here
So it's like is everybody on an even keel and everybody's absolutely valid no matter what they say when it comes to film criticism
For some reason everyone seems to think yes, no matter what is said
Like is that the same case for talking about sword craft? Am I just as valid in whatever fucking conclusions
I reached compared to you shad. It's like I go well a sword is really just a stick and it's the same as a staff
You you have to accept it on the internet
He's who is an expert told me I was wrong in my half-assed assertion
I was about to say this this fucking guy actually said that was a problem. Like that was a bad thing that happened
And even with history as well like it's funny there are some like subjective interpretations based on evidence
but it's always based on what the evidence is and stuff and
And not only when I say evidence there's a broad range of what qualifies as evidence and things like that
But the point of history is to be as objective as you can to get to what really happened because we know
What happened in history was a definitive truth something literally happened
It wasn't multiple things that change based on your own subjective interpretation something literally happened actions are things that happen
And they're set in stone. That's what happened. And so the point of history is to discover
What actually happened in its uninterpreted or just pure the pure fact that's the whole point of it
Yeah, you could almost say that's for science as well
There's there's no such thing as your truth in my truth
It's like no there's two perceptions and one of them aligns with reality and you want to have that one be yours
exactly
Like if he said if I said ray is not in tlj he goes well, that's your truth
I'd be like no actually it's just false, but okay
I guess
Easier for me because i'm never going to be proven wrong that way
It's just another form of it by opinion another form of it's all subjective. It's like don't believe something that's so
ambiguously
unfalsifiable
Because then you'll never ever be able to find out if what you believe is actually true or not
You've not given yourself criteria to judge it for
They will argue that the whole objective thing actually limits conversation
I always felt there was the opposite because we never get anywhere when it's you know, was ray in tlj or not
Yes, or no, well, it's up to you
Oh
Okay
What like so you have two guys who like complete opposite ends of it. They don't listen to each other
They just blitz out their perspective and then walk away. It's like well, that was really great guys. I hope we do that again next time
Like well as two plus two four
Yeah, it's it's it's just you start the most basic stuff
Maybe by maybe by your truth. You can work. Maybe by your truth like oh
That's just your opinion. No, it's my it's not just my opinion. It is my opinion. That's not just my opinion
Such a fact reality
Yeah, it's not my opinion. It's a fact. Okay, it's like the christmas lights thing
I was talking about just like a bunch of fucking words floating around. They're all
Intended to prevent that one moment. We go. Oh
I was wrong. Oh wait, this breaks down at this most base level. Okay, I was wrong
Fuck I found out what's right and now I believe that right thing now
This is what I mean. It's like once you've made a video essay. None of it is wrong. That's that's cruel
You can't you can't get to that point. I know
Well, if nothing's true I can never be wrong that is true and speaking of being wrong. Hello. That's bullshit
What'd you call me? You were wrong
Is a man under a water balloon
Yeah
I see you're using the art from an artwork that I haven't shown on stream yet. That'd be great. Yes
Yes, the context will come later. Can you show it on stream? Is it one of those pictures? I will
I get a lot of those pictures
I'll see if I can find it. In fact, we can probably well, okay
Wait, let's let's finish this video and then I will go to uh meme images. That's that's that's agreeable
Uh, that's bullshit. There is a link to a watch together if you scroll up
Enough this one you find that one. Yep. I'm already in sweet
All right
Boop, boop. I'm kind of bummed that I wasn't uh part of the uh, the jim stirling video earlier that this
Oh, did you see the coverage rags missed it as well? Yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah
It's funny because like, you know, I wish I was part of it because uh,
I uh, I really I I have an hcc vibe and I really love vr. I mean, yeah
Oh, that would have been yeah
You could have given us goggles man. I feel the privilege every uh every
Uh few months when I am not lazy enough to move it into my living room being morbidly obese
Do you feel that it is preventative to you?
Yes, i'm not here again i'm oppressed i'm oppressed as shit right now
After every sentence I have to catch my breath it's like walking up a staircase
In my opinion
It's all subjective in my subjective opinion
I believe like putting a false claim on a film or a character within that film. It's just
Kind of ludicrous if you're asking me so you're saying they could be objectively wrong. Whoa
Oh, no, no, no, don't say that don't say that
I just kind of wanted to talk about it because i've been rewatching star wars and talking about
Oh, look at them go. What is he what is he sitting? Oh, that looks really uncomfortable. Stop cooperating
I love that we're finding the b-roll background footage of the video more interesting than what is
Oh, yeah, what does he say? It just reminded me of teal. TLJ is a fucking disaster
Like it's just so fun to keep looking back and be like wow that happened. That's it that exists
That's a thing and some people think it's great and I just cannot fathom
Hundreds of people work together to create that with millions of dollars that happened in our universe. We're on that timeline
This wasn't an accident. I'm so sorry
This wasn't like major fucking up into whatever it is
This was all deliberate. This is why we're all here by the way
Choices this fucking movie is why all of us are here right now in this way in this matter
If it wasn't for the last Jedi, yeah, then we would have never met and I would have people together
Who knows what i'd be given?
What a bittersweet movie i'm here i'm here from the dark souls video. Yeah, but I didn't meet you until efap was start up, right?
Good enough. Yes, I suppose I was gonna say there's a good chance I may have met other people in different ways
But as we are right now this this wouldn't be the same if not for this movie. So thank you ryan again. It's true
There was more online and it's just been a fantastic experience online
So I figured why not translate all of that to my channel because it just might be interesting to discuss it here as well
Plus on twitter, like I said i'm restricted to like 280 characters
Whereas I can just kind of ramble on and discuss my you know points here there in yonder on video
So I figured it'd be kind of a more personal way to connect to you guys
And just a more elaborate way for me to connect with you guys
So that being said, thank you guys so much for watching my video. It means a lot. Oh shit
Please give it a share and but and this is something that i'm sure
I've literally seen
Well, I was gonna say uh despite the arguments from laffy taffy jokes
Despite rags saying that shit which it is, which is okay. By the way, keep at it. You'll improve
It's all right
You'll either get better or you'll just keep continuing down this terrible
Pit it's the pits. I'm call it
This is this is after you stabbed his corpse a hundred times with a dagger like it's okay
I was gonna say why does it matter? It's all subjective. Anyway
Yeah, it's all equally shit and equally as amazing as everything else
Talk it
You could say he risks going downward at maximum thrust, but I almost wonder if that's even a bet
I just love the fact that he he was like it's all subjective. But if you get things wrong, that's unacceptable
Wait ridiculous
Big thumbs up i'm frame by frame. Remember the name. Don't forget to like and remember the name guys in the next video
I
Clearly missed a few frames. He seems like a friendly guy. He was he was dropped on a few frames when he was young
Hey, man, that's a subjective statement I could beat anything his mother should have swallowed his frames
This is your man, this is your mind on these this is your mind on frames
Well, that was bad, yeah, no not hilarious not fantastic
Yet another fantastic video though for for our cavalcade tonight
um
Next up we're gonna we're gonna check out a whole series of of images and um, if if shad, uh psa
Jay Longbone even desk bullshit if any of you feel like you have no fucking clue what's going on
You have better things to do in your life. I I wouldn't hold it against you to want to leave
You are welcome to stay for as long as you want don't feel like it would be offensive in any way
I mean a lot of these actually have shad in them. So
Oh do that. Well, I better stay for that then there's some are
Yeah
Yes, actually and it became oh wait. Yeah meme videos me and rags are definitely gonna get to meme videos
I'm just looking for a good opportunity
I think we're getting there nearly now because
We're at 4 a.m. British time, which means give it another few hours and we're gonna be like the dead zone where no one's around
Is everybody's everybody's gonna go to sleep and all that so we'll be able to do whatever we want
All right
Let's let's get these memes afoot
Shall we um, I thought this was pretty funny in relation to talking about how the stream might have been reported
Or it probably was but you know, this is funnier
Reported for bullying because they keep picking on the girl with the jaw closing impairment and star
with
The jaw closing impairment
Um, this is so I think we we talked about this before but no bullshit created a um a guide to social media marketing
And they got a fucking red skull from infinity wall saying I guide others to treasure. I cannot present
That's so fucking perfect
No, matt jarbo made that's not no bullshit
Sorry, the noble shit. I bet that job. Oh, yeah, my brain. I've had a little bit too much to drink
I'm gonna have to start
No bullshit social media marketing
Yes, uh still poignant as fuck
Um, so this is in relation to the book review when
sorry
Book review when for who for what when for where for that for no bullshit social media marketing tips and tricks on how
To create and sustain us if you want to fucking read it, you can review
Oculus pro privileged goggles
I like it good at it
This is the thing that alex suggested. I might be 30 per cent here against this outside of
That's bullshit. Maybe but um, he said you need to have the oculus vision where because basically jim stiller was arguing that like
anybody who
Can't see you can't use them. This is like am I disabled?
More oculus beams, I can't believe these were not my twitter. I found all these in the discord
They probably were sent me on twitter. I just missed
It's it's horrifying spongebob combined with jim sterling undeniably
Perfect. That is terrifying. I don't want to look at it. Does he have a corset on his fucking cat?
If you see jim still
Stylish man, how's he supposed to keep the head fat in come on? Um, why have I forgotten who's fights productions?
No, no, I imagine not even being remembered by evap that we might have got chat help me out who's fighter productions
I actually don't know
I mean i've probably said a lot of people who are wrong. So it makes enough sense. I just
Yeah, there's a lot of wrong people on the internet. Sometimes it's uh
Tough to keep them all in check
Why wings scatter shot where wings?
That's pretty good, um, one of rags's creations brought to life very quickly
Well, that was a meme before
Oh, that's why I called it that oh, well, they said this one
This might have been a repeat one though, but I still it was said as soon as you said
Meme is a callback
But if this is a new meme then this is good as well because i like this totally a lot. Oh, yeah
I love favorite film
Not scientifically possible
What
I mean, it's a stick-like weapon you guys agree, right? Oh, yeah, absolutely sword-like weapons
Well, there's just no text and it just speaks for itself I was gonna say we know exactly what's going on there
So this one's from back when the middle references were coming out, I think rags will get this it's all good
This is like I have to specify who here i'll actually understand this shit because it's still like in-depth lore
Wrong man good because more middle
Like some of these you need specific people i'll just direct them to this shit once let's go to the meme channel
I don't care for j
I care for j to to a minded degree, but it's all good
This was our holy crusade. I feel like we may have shown this one before but it's all right in case I haven't
But this is this is us, uh talking about film criticism from several perspectives that involve our our opponents in in debate
Take this very seriously as you can tell
Also, this is a great uh an extremely serious podcast and we talk about serious things
No laughing allowed great quote from uh, olena tyrell that now applies to the uh
The rest of the series of game of thrones
fortunately
Yeah, I imagine that must really be tough if you try to get back into it
This is uh, I guess bane came to brand table's birthday party and he's a sexual harassment for you
But for me
I see you have a piece of cheesecake the long man cometh
Oh god rags look at that neck. Oh, look at you
You're both like that. Oh, we fluffy we have some fluffy boys
I guess i'm jod wicked this scenario
Captain midnight cosmonaut cinema wins extra credits ryan johnson major league quinton reviews h bomb
Okay, mark brown movie ball patrick williams jackson eric taxon joseph
There's a lot of fucking people we've covered
Can I forget sometimes?
Growing rogues gallery right there molly are setting yourself up for a whole panel
It's like less than half of them. Honestly
Man, there's a lot of wrong people on the internet
We got there's like a selection of four of these, uh
The new john this is there's a bunch of dog related stuff. I mean, this is good shit
These are all uh, e-man game plays edits that are always very slick
Look like they were made made that way
Yeah, it looks good the dawn this is stuff the dawn would do
And who would be facing the dawn? I wonder. Well, of course, it would be brown table
Using sexual harassment. Also spider-man is coming out
These are important memes
You're very
Even even this degree of of like sketching makes it hilarious
You're a broken piss and you don't deserve vr
I want the privileged goggles
Is that something he actually said wait what so did he say that they don't deserve it?
No, he didn't say deserve so he said the reason vr will fail is because it prevents people without legs people who are blind and people
Who have obese? Oh, yes people that we know famously control the market
You said like physically abled is the only people can that can do
You know, there's lots of blind people in the video game market already. So oh, yeah, no, they've gone. They've gone over that plenty
It's uh, yeah, they they designed
I don't know that
That argument sounds perfectly logical because that's why sports just no one plays sports
So ableist
We actually it's all in it's all in the first third. We are the dawd make america smile again
Oh my god, I actually I was in the process of making uh,
Some commentary like a reaction on that deleted captain marvel scene and I made a joke about how
They it was cool. It's a joke, but how they kind of subliminally
subliminally
implied that the don was the donald donald trump like he represented him
I mean
They named him after after donald trump. I was gonna say there's a chance they would have done that but fuck
They didn't really make it clear beyond
If that's the reference alone because the people who made captain marvel were
Like they're the ones that have all the characters. They're like, you know why they call it the cock bit. Don't you?
Oh, that's that's a line
Good for you. It's a fine place to paint your cock
Uh, so this is obviously aquaman walks up to wolf and says I heard you talking shit about my live action
Says I did let me shorten it to a 10 minute video attention span fuck aquaman
And then he gets slapped by him. I feel like that's just the first half of the story wolf would probably kill him
um
Good old simpsons reference for the middle
There is no end only middle
How confusing would this be out of context he's like what the fuck you would not even be
Wolf wielding some tea pool
wielding a pizza and an axe
natural state
Wonderful rendition
cheesy
So this is this is about I think this was us trying to talk about the politics of old video games that we went back to pong
the neo-con's paradise
It makes enough sense to such deep political imagery. Yeah
It's I think it's communist personally. It's trying to address the issues while also projecting the positives
We've seen stuff like this before when we started getting mass shooters as we know the important thing is the don appears in borderlands
We've had several screenshots of this. I just want to make sure everyone's still aware of this. He's
He's stuck on the epic store. I guess if this is borderlands three
This is referencing the sausage doom guy
Haunted better alive glowing yellow pole for that crime of causing crime war undue stress
Is that his name crime war
I think so
Um, is it really?
This is actually a fringy meme that got converted into something else that we will cover
Um, this is this is the foreshadowing. Let's put it that way
If you know the simpsons episode it's referring to it's basically just uh, I I as site your bob cannot escape the rakes of but the comics
The video version will make you well
I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about
We got too many too many memes buddy too many memes to go through
Dirty deeds don they're cheap painless crimes at affordable prices
Um, I consider this semi-accurate because I did make a two-hour video on here specifically so
That's pretty good
So this
Fuck what was the context exactly for this? So fano snap is removing half
A wolf's snap was to remove stupid people
Only the guy with the duds cap gets removed. I think this is a better world. What do you guys reckon?
Oh man, it's not molded at all well terrifying. I still think that's half
Oh, I think it's all I was gonna say that's this very conservative to assume that it's just half
Wolf's nap would be empty panel
What rags? Well, what is the context for this one?
Oh, we said what if there was a guy in america named joseph starlin and nobody ever explained why in a story
Wait, he was an american patriot
Joseph stalin american patriot
This is a genuine quote from good old totals just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad
Just having us react to it
It's such a classic oh, yeah, we got another
Another one from uh, the joseph catalog. I mean starlin catalog
What a handsome lad, oh, yes
I'm not sure what is referencing. I guess wolf is half buried but he's got his phone there and
Plenty of rags images as well as a go go away gay thoughts pizza
So someone who's really into muscle stuff drew me
This is a beautiful rendition of the dawn taking care of the cosmic chicken
Oh, you don't understand the context you are um, probably a horrible person just saying probably
I thought it was the other way around. Yeah. Well, it depends on which is the new testament versus the old testament really
Ah, this is uh wolf's daddled
He's got a beard
Beard is how you know
There's so many fucking extra credits beams with this first habit
It all started when I was young like cops and robbers with my friends and then it escalated to payday too
It normalized bag robbers a baby get this retarded extra credits haircut
Oh
Hello, I love how they're more they're more well known now for that terrible video than being a youtube channel that explores topics
Yeah, man. Yeah, that's weird
So pretty sure by the time they saw that video like everybody in the world was all like oh, yeah, there's still a thing
So this is uh upside down
The most dangerous noodle shad is battling the most dangerous doodle
I'll sit down. It's a great touch
Oh, I love the dark soul weaponry there
Nice little picture of slow and old poke
Probably get some slow note before the 24 hours
That's good
Again with no context. This is an interesting one say the line wolf. Oh my end with fucking
The the fantastic thing with that is it wasn't his line he was reading out someone in chat, but it became his line damn it
I'm the woman again
Kind of a relevant one
He was very specific to me at the point it's like yes, but some people will not get them
The fucking variety we have today they did it. Okay the way they did it bill bayous
Baguilius the second bayous baguilius the second what it means to slice and dice and a pin
He's one of the biggest inspirations one of the oldest ones. Oh, yeah, he was almost pre-fab right?
Yeah, definitely one of them. He might actually be pre-fab
Somebody touch of my spidey
Is that is that is that a watercolor meme yes, uh,
I was gonna say there's not many mediums we have left for an efap meme to be coveted. We've had literal legos and
like fucking
We have the the connect
Uh bead things as well that we're getting through them. We've got all kinds. Oh, I love that one
I wonder how many people get the spaghetti bolognese
Um, oh true fans will absolutely get it
Let me say that efap is uncultured we got watercolors
I feel like I may have posted this one already, but hey the hue vegetables. There's uh
Something I said and you've got the the quinton
I want to say
I'm not good with with with what I know broccoli carrot and
horn
Is what's the first one? I want to say eggplant
The quinton sideburns beautiful
I fucking hate orange man long man bad. No, please super chat
You could cook me like a grenade and make me into a sandwich from bark proud. Oh that cooked me like a grenade
Man, we've got so much history
And then the last one says
Can spiders actually tell the future from j?
Memories. Oh, yeah, that's right
Oh jay, this one's interesting so you got a liter of shit from wolf and you've got everyone and shad and me
Charging against him. I um, I I don't even know that I had an opinion on that. I remember being like I don't see that
All right, I belong there all right, I'll leave the charge
We're in good hands
This may be a small meme you might have to zoom in or whatever but it's a good one
Oh wait, you guys might want to know I have to but alan yells at middle
Wasn't alan pro middle wasn't his whole thing that he was okay with the middle I can't remember now
Pointing out how the middle is
Oh, this is a fucking a 300 meme
But like not used in the manner you'd expect
You
We had that I remember that's from 300 actually it's that weird scene with it's like an oracle or whatever
Prophet rags has foreseen the dreaded episode nine
You see the movie he has taken it up the ass
He has felt the fan's sadness. He's heard the producer's excuses. He hasn't watched the shills defend
He has read the critics be puppets. All will be is he? Yes, we're told you know, that's what's gonna happen
Yeah, I was gonna say it'll just be another cycle bullet likely
The cycle shall begin to move
There I am shooting down my strawman and all of a sudden in my subjectively object of a pity wolf
Talking of trouble to dust for this. I didn't choose this yet. Here it is. I guess quinton's become
Nazi, he's a long man bat. I'm not sure the narrative is unclear here
He's treated no differently than being a massive
Winter hasn't earned the title of massive that you know, you need to have certain qualities to get that
He think he's gonna eat his way to the title perhaps
That's a pleasant image all the rings and pizza. It's all you need. Oh, yeah
Yeah
They blended it quite well, you know, I can see that these sort of these sort of match the image i'm liking it
This is wow which superman is that
Who knows this superman here the two
Yeah, I think it's number two. I haven't watched too many
Like it was actually blended so well, I thought that the text was like the only part of the joke and then I actually
Got the the wolf cinder block low durability, but high damage
Rhino ivory chainsaw not bad efap weapons and the cold dagger of boredom freezes weaker enemies instantly and slows down others can be thrown
At enemies and retrieved by making an okay sign. I think this feels familiar to me. Actually, I may have read this up before
Has previously been used to harm the elder god tonal just mentioned in
111 in his video anthem almost ruined my summer. Oh wait, we only covered that recently ish though
Yeah, I think this is new. I think this is a new one. Yeah, this is a new one
So do you really want that ball this absolute subjectivity this what I actually feel like I read out before but then I can't tell
The difference because i've seen all of these before in prep for putting them up. So
there are strange
What a strange image it is some of these you have to decipher like this one's very clear though
I understand the meme here straight away. Oh, yeah
What if there's a mod for the slender man game that has
Whatever you escape into the game is be like you just hear a distant who wrote this
Scape from the middle I can see it
I don't know if you've caught this but there's a recurring theme of the middle being the enemy of efap in some ways
This shit, I don't know if maybe j should have been the head here, but I think the writer works regardless
I am the milkman. My milk is delicious
I think this is in reference to me saying at the beginning of efap like 47 like who likes effort
and then a bunch of like comments were like
Fucking you and I was just like I just fucking I don't know
Start the stream
Merus
Don't got more efap weapons
We are uh, we're three quarters of the way through by the way, and I usually I save the um
The more artistic pieces for the end. I think the last one might actually be where smud boys. Uh,
Not smud boy fucking dust bullshit pictures from
You got gay donut dispenser traps enemies in sticky queer glaze leaving them open for follow-up attacks
The yellow pole launcher fires large glowing yellow poles towards enemies causing massive damage
The magna glock while it's magnetically drawn to their target
That's just a fantastic reference
And just a flashlight although it looks like a simple flashlight. It is actually a grenade launcher
It is best to know this before playing so you don't kill yourself in starting
Uh, you know that reference rags starting over starting over. Oh
That's actually I I thought immediately it reminded me of where that's from. Um
You remember pressing f in a certain game to try and activate your your light and it fired a fucking grenade
I remember pressing f in a certain game to activate my flashlight. It was a particularly well-made game
Was that alien colonial marines a particularly well-made
I'm thinking you don't even walk out of the freaking first room. You spawn it like oh it's dark in here. I would like to see
This is just full of references
Who wrote this bark at least got my fucking pizza wait, I definitely read this one out, but I still love it
So I don't even care
Because uh, this was relevant to the I want to say efap
46
45 I can't remember. It's the one we covered. Uh
What's a buzzfeed wise crack? Hmm. Sorry too many of their names are interchangeable. Leave me alone
Um, yeah, it's good shit
Now this one
This is a bit of a deciphering have to do here because it's
I think it's a reference to shinobi defending the jurassic park movies. That would make a lot of sense to me
But I don't know much more beyond that it was definitely sent at me in relation to efap so
It's a cool drawing regardless
Lots of clues and stuff
And again apologies if i've shown these on stream before because i'm blending together i've shown
You remember this one rags because I remember talking about this with somebody
Oh king of the monsters you got
You got the rhino the cosmic chicken
Froggled I think wolf is supposed to be goliath. Uh, uh, Godzilla there that spider with a with an orb
I just got an efap production. I just love the whole thing
I do like it. Yeah, I like the orb of the spider guy
massive rhino
At first glance you might think that they're all just the people from all the monsters from the film, but no
No, it was so artistically intertwined within the narrative the uh
Film that it just works like it was made for it
Let's demonize the nazi
It was a stressed phase
Um, oh, yes, this was from cynic snacks, uh, he did it on a stream out of request in his chat
I just want to make sure that we actually showed it here as well because it's awesome
Um
Got a
cj stacks and a pipe man
throwing some making it rain on rags while he's doing his uh
His set I guess while i'm sorting out music and uh, the wolf's got the drink
This is um, it doesn't necessarily have to be connected to efap at all, but this is just a really great drawing of the dot
I guess like i'm not sure like
Oh, that's so good
Did someone do that for us? I did this is the thing
I don't know if this is connected to efap or not or someone just did it in general because there's nothing in the picture
That implies efap, but there's a good chance there's to do with efap because I don't think anybody has glorified the dot as much as we have
That shows him in a very positive light, you know as the dawn deserves
It's a goodman. He was
Betrayed and abused by the horrific monster known as captain marvel
Well, bravo, I love it
uh
This is the alan parka lips. It's not the end. It's just the middle
The power of amphitheaters compels you I guess that's wolf rags b
I think that's the pizza slash cynics next and the dawn and
I want to say the cosmic chicken it would make sense
Almost like a movie poster
I I like it's got this kind of
God it's got this whole video game cover vibe to it some kind of
It's it's like a 70s trippy sort of film cover maybe
I really like it
It's got it's so it's very unique
Was the other one for the wolfenstein stuff possibly the best one just for explaining the narrative here
Legal eagle in that fucking bozo on the left. I think it was iam that robbie was that guy
Man, that was a weird phase in ephab. We're going through captain marvel defense videos
Um
So I wish jay were here, but I don't know what to make of this. I'll just present it
It's it's an interesting drawing
Say the least there's a bit of a sausage and a cup of rhino milk probably and
a bag of what seemed to be
geodes
And that's definitely jay
Who knows what's going on here? He's just having he's frolicking. I would say it's a good piece of art though
undeniably
Well drawn
Yeah, looks like a good time. I don't judge
Did I show this one before
I can't remember if I showed this on a stream, but um, this is I think this is omega ridley. Yeah
makes fucking badass looking pieces of
This is it's gonna be a long one for reading out superchas with this uh series i'm not sure i'm fitting it in but it's gonna happen
Here we go again
So I guess like you you
The lore of I guess you have like a skeleton spine
I think yeah possibly, you know, this is the thing. It's it's always changing. You never know exactly what the truth is
this was uh tilde or tilde who
I believe mentioned efap and um, we'll probably guest on this show eventually, but it's like a a dear vision of me as well
Because we're hanging out. We're clearly friends in this in this scenario
What do you call yourself?
Uh, i'm gonna let the fans come on. Yeah
How could I do that when i'm already moving on to the next piece of art which we have to appreciate look at this shit
Damn why does rags have pitties because rags is always the beautiful
I don't I didn't ask for this. Holy shit, though. How cool is this drawing?
Like
Wolf the pizza demon. I love it
Just a fucking tranny hook
He's a demon with food you've got some fucking gun a massive goat
We're just turning tricks to buy a mcdonald's burger to keep me going another day
You never know what kind of all comes out of efals i'm saying nope
Oh rags you're looking pretty pretty neat there as well. Everybody's uh, oh here
Oh, this is going to be some kind of anime reference that i'm not aware of
And then this one's just adorable
Got the pipeman wolf me
uh al fringy j and rags
I really like that style. It's really cute. Yeah, you're always gonna love the cute ones
Ah
Love it
Very cute. This one just speaks for so you don't even need to know the fucking right. It looks like a keebler elf
You're not as smart as you think you do
The squinty eyes
You
Man this is a
This is a lot to take it when you first see it. He's like, whoa. Okay, so you got
Efab episode 41. Hurrah. Now. Here's why you're wrong. I don't like spider-man homecoming. What are your thoughts on interstellar?
Did wolf ever ask you that? I don't remember that
Why is shad a bottle of something
Is it because I don't drink and it's a play on the
Maybe is that shad i'm assuming. I don't know. Oh, maybe. Oh fuck. It's critical drinkers. I'm coming. Obviously. It's critical drinkers
Did he not like homecoming either? No, he didn't
Oh, no, no, i'm thinking far from home. Sorry. I'm getting oh
I can't remember what he thought of far. He made a video on it
Uh, I remember him thinking it was I can't remember if he thought it was better or worse than homecoming actually
Then you got people in the chat. I guess saying that uh, we don't like avenger civil war
Well, that's on you chat. That's on also. This was the one I was talking about rags. You got version one, which is the alternate, uh
Me and me and wolf being put into a singular
Dog, which did anyone watch cat dog? That was a show
I remember that I remember it being around. Yeah, that reminds me of this funny. I like his face
Then it sounds great. I was gonna say I think we mentioned did somebody before the rags get added to it and he did that
He's always some disgusting third wheel
Oh my god
and
Brown
And you don't know i'm just gonna sprout arms and legs and fall off
We don't know if i'm happy or sad about this series of events. I like the wolf high though
Ah, this is the one that uh, it's the same guy it's dratomire. Oh, you're right. Yeah
Jesus christ, dude. Oh, who is this guy?
Uh, I just saw the stream going oh
Oh shit's going down. Oh, hopefully it comes back up. We this has happened like we're back. Okay. All right
so
What what stream is this from?
What's true? So this would be the um, from home debate. Yeah, you weren't you missed the the ones we shared
Yeah, the unassailable spaghetti bolognese argument which apparently
Very much impressed the three of us that were listening. You could as you can tell from this facial expressions
Oh, yeah, he's in chat by the way
Brad demire and he said that uh, but hello, it's me. It's like yeah, this work is fucking great
It's great. I love it really good. I obviously loved it
That's crazy
And yeah, sorry
It took so long to like feature them
but like I said, I was saving all the beams for you for 50 because it made sense to have a big showcase and
Because they don't look like they're the same person who drew them
Yeah
uh
Because it's like different styles
Um, so if you remember we saw the wolf version this is the rags one from those like
efap icons
Ah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, my epic game store is the big game
And sure enough the more time goes by the more awful the epic game store gets
I don't know what you mean rags
Roadmap sort of thing. Hey, they still haven't fucking added
Uh, yeah all the cars promise they just dropped having it I guess it's just forget it
I guess I should move this one. This is the the me vision of it
Even got a little little old with the spider on it
Yay
Beautiful little trio. Yeah, it's fucking awesome
Okay
What's that you're holding?
What's this spider with the it's an oracle spider
Little hat bloom on it like the fortune teller I use it to see the future
Ah, I had to blow it up a little bit. There it is
It's adorable. He built the most impressive of wheelchairs. I got this one
Got on the flag it says praise be the chicken guided by the loke blessed is the dawn
You got goliath watches
All armored up on my on my horse as well with the efap shield rags is i'm guessing having a snooze
I guess
It could be a number of things
Yeah, you know who knows what's going on exactly captain america in the back. I guess. Oh, yeah, I guess i'll be j
Because he has the shield in his icon
Am I like the fucking oh, of course. I don't know he's riding a rhino as well. That would be j
Ah, yes, of course. Oh, course
Um, this one. I don't actually know exactly where it came from but rag sent me it and it's
Wonderful
Someone drew me as a cat, so I don't know how I feel about I don't know how I feel about it
Again cannot stress enough how amazing some of the art we get is like it's just like what the fuck are we supposed to do
With this? Why are you doing this to us?
We we we can do nothing but say this is amazing. I love it
Are these like um, you said we have we had like a uh unofficial website, right?
Yes, which I believe all of them get stored on for easy viewing but you can also find them in the it is live
It says current runtime as of efap 49 so what's interesting is that if you go to the website now look at the top
Click here 24 hour 50th special live now best wish as well. Oh, that's cool
I'll get links here. Sure enough. It links to
Yeah, he's uh, I guess the person behind this is is constantly tweaking it to be um
Like more user friendly and it goes and yeah
See, this is the meme section where you just it's like ease of access to every meme that's ever been showed
I'm, not sure where the source for this is. I don't know if he's using the discord because that would make a lot of sense
but
That's a lot of memes
It's incredible so many memories
And look this it look everything looks slick too
Like it doesn't take forever to load like all the shit's just flying out as you're clicking
Yeah, dude, this is like professional tier stuff. Oh, this shit can bring a tear to your eye. Look at all the memories
This is something we'll probably do maybe like efap 100 we could just look through this entire list
I'm gonna get lost in this. I need to stop. Oh, yeah. No
They don't they don't stop but yeah, I like how if you go to hosts it has you and it says rare owner of a twitter account
The last one I was gonna say the sick I just said is this uh this drawing of I guess efap going to war
again, um
Just fucking fantastic got
So much detail and the thing that's really cool, right?
So you can obviously tell exactly who a lot of these people are but then the clones
are um
A specific as well. So you got like the clone with the pipe and the british flag. So there's obviously pipeman
Um, then the the dog bones on his legs. That's cga
uh
I'm trying to actually figure these out as I go like there's a lot of detail. I see a nice pack. Oh, yeah, that'll be you
Keep out goliath. He's got a british thing on him. He's got a mushroom
So, I guess that's cynic snacks
Another british one with the bones. All right, dj, there's bilbo, of course. Mm-hmm. There is
I love n
Calvin
Oh, yeah, kyle. Let's see. There's despo shit. He's got the
water bottle thing I said
I'll say
Tributes demanded I got efap like uh, I guess the like notches for each episode
And smile got a smile for me
Look at that you got you logic has a rapier assuming that's that is that weapon shad could confirm that for me
Yeah
I tried I tried
Um, am I right on this and saying that a lot of us have lightsabers is that accurate to real life?
I you know, I think that's correct
Thank goodness
yeah, um, that's actually
I think that's it for the actual the pictures. We got a shit ton of videos to do as well. We will you know
It looks like i'm shooting i'm firing a awkwardly
Shot lightsaber out of my gun. It's like I can't I can't don't see it
There's a this is what is uh the simpson's reference individually we are weak like a twig but as a bundle
We form a mighty sword-like weapon
Uh
Um, i'm so glad I was on the stream for the birth of that meme
Oh, yes, it's a it's a good that's got some staying power. You can already tell so
That's gotta go
There's got to be like quotes like when the uh
Like when the website kind of expands out and stuff you need to be like a quote every time you visit the page
There's like another one
Yeah, like a call of duty thing. Yeah, yeah, pretty much
Okay, um that pretty much I mean we're at we're at 620 so um
I have a choice of we could cover another video
We could look at meme videos or I could try and get some super chats done or at least get through a few of them. So
Multiple choice chat. Oh shit. No, I have no choice but to do something else. I completely forgot
Oh, we got a we got a meme quiz to do
Oh
I'm gonna say again you guys good. I have been drinking more than normal
Don't feel like you have to stay for any of this. Absolutely. You could do whatever the hell you want
Is this a quiz for efap memes or a quiz and general names quiz for efap meme?
So when the hell did you get here again?
I
Have a couple of emails that i'll need to get through so I might hop off
But I could pop in again a little bit later. So
We will see me and rags got another at least like
10 hours. So
What?
Oh, good luck
I thought we were near the finish the fuck. No, all right. We got this 10 hours. We can do it
You're more than halfway there
Yeah, you know i'm gonna hop off too like until you know when you're and when you're done I might come back
Yeah with the meme. All right
Meme ray
All right. Good to be in the same room with you. J long bone. I uh, I love your video
Oh, you know feelings mutual. Thank you
I also love my videos. Yes
Yeah, I think i'll see any remaining guys later
You know, yeah, all right guys i'll see you around yeah, you bet
See you around thanks for having me again guys. Happy 50th
Happy yeah, non-50th
Thanks, see you later
All right, you're you ready for this ranks no we can't look at chat as well
All right, let me
Bring up a new tab. Let me put some porn on the tab with them
I can read the questions to you unless you want to pull up my stream and you'll be able to see them. But um
So first question i'm checking on the stream on which episode did we discover?
And again, i'm not going to look at chat at all for this. Okay, this has got to be genuine answers
Hide chat button. Yep. Fuck there. It shows up on the stream though
Me and rags are gonna do this from memory. We'll agree on on a choice. We'll see how we do
Can you not link it to me? Oh well, I guess we can but i'd like us to do it together, you know as opposed to having
I'll put them down the same answers. Okay, so they'll be the same. It'll just allow me to read along and
link a rude
um
Okay
So, uh history of every frame of pause quiz this quiz will probably turn you into a nazi
But if you don't take it you have boring taste and I don't want to be friends with you
That's some fucking
Deep memory right there. Um
This whole thing is deep memory i'm glad someone actually made this
Also too as well in addition rags is wrong because he's a chair malbo baguins did you
Malbo baguins
Slice and dice hate mongers and verbal terrorists of the toxic brood get your rhino milk ready. Man toxic brood
That's got some staying power. Absolutely
Okay, I thought I was ready for this but damn he's going ham on this shit
I don't know if i'm ready anymore on which episode did we discover that spiders could tell the future?
I know it was when we were covering cinema sins and it was j
It was jay with cinema. I think it was
Everything wrong with avengers infinity wall. That was it. I'm thinking so. Yeah, because it has to have jay in there
Um, so when did the star wars episode nine questions start?
Oh
I actually have no idea
I want to say it was when we were covering major lee's number 13
What why just to get like what what makes you think that because I have got nothing
Because I don't feel it was like super super early, but I think that it was still
the product of a star wars related discussion
I think that makes sense. Do you reckon 13?
That's what I would put it. I'm gonna yeah, i'm gonna agree. I've really I really can't remember that one
Which of the following is not?
I'm sure the freaking librarians
Oh, yeah, dude chat
Again chat will 100% this i'm not looking at chat for the duration of this quiz. Yeah, i'm not looking at it either
Which of the following is not a quote from rags? Look at what the fuck I can do i'm jesus
Hmm I can't
Tomorrow day is the satyr. That sounds like something you'd say
How dare you shoot me? I'm a woman. I think you've definitely said that
Okay, you shoot me a woman I think that was probably during the bat one the thing too
Chew that spit and walk to the bank with it. Is that
That sounds like some no. I I I I know that would be something along the lines of why don't you like stick that and your
Smoke that in your pipe and walk it to the bank or something like that. So maybe
um
I sure do love women. They are nature's gift to women kind
I could see you saying that all I remember is the bog. All right
I'm kind of fucked on this. Which of the following is not a quote. So you said all of these except one
Like i've never even heard any of these
I think I think chew the spit and walk to the bank with it
I think that's similar to something i've said because i've said like such and such and take that to the bank or something to that
Some oh, you think it's a trick question
Yeah, I think it's similar to something i've said, but I can't remember because all of these obviously
I could say anything. I don't have much of a filter
I know like tomorrow day is the sadder. I'm pretty sure i've definitely said that look at the fuck I can do on gee
Uh, I think it's chew that spit and walk to the bank with it. I'm willing to agree with you on that one
It's also important to note that I am rags and i'm not sure
Yeah
Yeah, let's go back. All right. I just want to make sure my answers are filled in with you guys. Uh, number one was um
90 uh a oh b. Okay. What?
1913 chew that spit 1913 chew that spit
Got it. 1913 chew that spit
All right. Where did the insult massive originate? Oh, that's oh, that's easy Joseph Anderson twitter argument just right
oh
so
technically speaking where does it originate is
Not necessarily the twitter argument. Is it it's an efap because it's something I believe rags or wolf created the uh
The insult calling I think wolf created it. It's you you called him
well
Yeah, because that was the thing wolf either you or wolf said the the offensive part was massive
It wasn't i'm pretty sure that was that might have been you. Yeah, I was like, oh, I can't you believe he called you a mess
You said this was an easy one. Well, it was it wasn't
It was until I thought about it
um
Fuck I should really be awake during these things
All right. Okay, so I
Because he because here's the thing
Three of these questions have the right person Joseph Anderson
so
That's the thing he knows that we're gonna probably know it's Joseph
um
My thinking my guess would be 11 it would have been the first time we talked about no
I don't was it the first or second when I
11 was a long time ago. Also, um
Since we're doing the quiz someone wanted to jump in
Um
No way
Oh my god
Hello hello
Hey
Hello, hi, hello. Hello. Hi, you said that at the beginning of the fucking history
Oh, yay
How are you doing?
I'm i'm, okay
You know, uh, you're too sleepy. Are you we've got this
This wonderful quiz that goes over all of the fab i'm pretty I I got off work about
uh
That was about an hour ago. So
Well, good shit playing type two an amazing game had
Oh, yeah, I played a match and was looking at the memes. Um, whoever made the cat dog meme with rags as a horrifying tumor
That's amazing. I I don't know whether to thank you or avoid you for the rest of my life
Uh, if you want to
If you want to click the link in the the latest link in the in the description
It'll pull up the the quiz view and then we're all basically going to decide on an answer and then choose it and we're not
allowed to look at chat
Because they have all the answers. So if you want to follow along with us, the first answer we gave was shut down
Yeah, yeah chat likes to think they have all the answers. Yeah, they sure do
They're a they're a neural network. All right. So for the first question
We're running with um episode 19 for when spiders could tell the future. I know that's right. I I have perfect memory of that one
Oh, yeah, because that was uh
I remember seeing like one of the birds of lope from with the sun videos where we were watching like that clip when spider-man was
Going over the bridge and that was when jay asked it and then
Rags told him he was a fucking idiot
When did star wars episode nine questions start, um
I couldn't quite remember rags logic was it would have been past episode four and it would make more sense to be a star wars
centric
Episode so he's going with 13. I think it could be 13 or 14, but I i'm willing to bet it was 13. Yeah
This next one 13
Which of the following is not a quote from rags? What would you even guess here? Well like fucking what is this?
Like one of these what the fuck I can do i'm jesus. That's definitely a rags quote tomorrow day is the sadder
That's definitely a rags quote. How dare you shoot me? I'm a woman. That's definitely a rags quote
Chew that spit. What is the all he remembers that? Okay
No, the last one is definitely me
Really? Oh
I'm almost positive. That's me. Oh, that's actually a good point. What is more than we were
Yeah, I was gonna say why would rags reference a bong? I don't I don't know if i've ever hit him reference a bong
That's true. I could be I could do the thing that I do you could yeah, you could
But do the thing that he does though. Like I could have pretended to be wolf
He could have but i'm almost positive that's a me quote if only you weren't smoking at the time
You're you're drug atlas
You're always what do we do? The cat dog drew you with red eyes. Hey, i'm not drug addled rags
I haven't ate pizza or had caffeine in like 15 days and it's it's difficult
In that so, which would you go with out of these the last one you reckon, right?
He seems more confident than I am which is weird because this is supposed to be my quote
But that could very well be true. So I think we'll go with his answer. Yeah, all I remember is the bong
right
All I have to do is say all but one of these well, no because that could be the one I have never seen
Wait, you can just say all of them and then the question's wrong
No, no, I think we're right
The next one we're stuck on because is where did the insult massive originate and we got the joe's fantasy twitter argument
That's where there was the source of the discussion that created the insult
That wasn't where the insult came from yeah, it wasn't the just right debate but it is it's between efab 11 and 16
Now it could be 11
But I think it might be 16 because I would have gotten into a back and forth with him on twitter as a result
Of efab 11. I feel like
I feel like 11 is too early
I feel it's 16. I think it's 16 too
Yeah, let's get it's got to be 16 because like I remember
We started using
massive around the gedel two time
And that was after
We miss your time in gedels long ass quiz. I didn't scroll all the way down
Oh my god
Well, this is interesting though because I want to see if we could which one of these we could nail between the fours put together
Uh, who was the main guest when massive faggot was originally shortened to massive?
So that would be efab 16, right?
If if we're going to have a cheat and look at the thumbnails, oh, I I want to say we shouldn't do that
We should go from memory we can do this
So why horror games don't scare me chase face and metal commander
And someone was it smud boy. I can't remember the three guests for that one. Joseph anison versus subjectivity. I know
Me rides a wolf roll there, right? Which means
That was theo because we read his oh, but wait theo came in
Like halfway plus through so who was the other person we had because he was the one who wrote the comment
Was it cynical reviews cynic snacks voxxers productions?
I mean theo counts. I think theo's comment was in response to joseph anderson
It says main guest though main guest probably theo doesn't count
I don't think this was on there because voxxers came on when the the first time you think it was when we had jared on
cynical reviews
Oh, I don't think it was cynic snacks
Yes
Main that kills me because
I'm just sitting here and all I can hear is the word faggot in voxx's voice
Faggot
You faggot because voxxers
I'm certain it wasn't voxxers theo was the the the the other guest the non-main one
So i'm almost certain it wasn't cynic snacks too. Literally. I the only one that I can't confirm wasn't there with cynical reviews
That's the only one. I can't confirm for sure. I know the other three win the the required thing of it
Do you think it was the three of us and then theo came in later unless well, then how would you answer this question?
Well, then I guess I would go with theo. Oh true
I'm gonna go with theo
Yeah, I I kind of think it's theo because
I know he would I think i'm pretty sure he was there. Remember if we get these wrong. It's literally like apocalypse times
Oh, no. Well, let's get it over with then. We do we want to go with theo then?
Yes, all right, we'll go with theo with theo. All right, we'll see you all right
Are you a scroll down next? Are you a bad person if you haven't seen lord of the regs trilogy? Yes. Oh, yes
Yeah, we can you actually
You can choose one of those with no points. Uh, oh definitely. I'm gonna go with we
I'm going yes because the best goddamn country in the language in the world wolf
Wolf wrote which of these books obviously it's number two. It's number two. It's number two because I was I was just reading the
I mean, I was just on every efap and that's on his bio. Dude. No bullshit social media marketing
I want to go with on number three. That is a long ass name for a book. That book's title is
a real book name
Yes. Yes. It was written by bad job. Oh, yeah
We had a meme on it earlier and I was genuinely about to look it up to see if no bullshit wrote
Oh
Yeah, the youtube channel. What was bail in the dragon's first featured drawing creepy over the first one bite. Yep. I remember that shit. Yep
Which non efap stream introduced us to fred the cosmic chicken
So that would be jay. That was I wonder
Yeah, that was jays because that was the goliath stream that one is deep lore
Whose full length meme video was the first to be played on efap? Oh
A little potato. It was a little potato. It wasn't grey sheep
No, it was a little potato
But I thought the the first one we played back in like episode like four or five whatever was if you remember the I was I was
thinking
No, I was thinking of like the first meme video ever before efap was made when yeah, that was first
I think he made the first one with the just right stuff
But i'm pretty sure the first one we ever showed was grey sheep and it was um darth maul fighting
Obi-wan and qui-gon i'm pretty sure that was the first one we showed it was the three of us versus jared
Yes, which is is recontextualized now that he's in jail
But was he in jail?
I was about to say like what I mean. I I mean I heard he was arrested. So oh, I mean
I know the police came to his house, but I think he was arrested
Oh, I I can't confirm but I mean
I know
I'm pretty sure it was grey sheep though. That would be my guess
Keep him the hell off youtube which of these guests informed us the don's wife. I already know this robot head
Does anybody have any other takes the confidence it was 100 robot head he made a shit out of it
Maybe he made one of the best efap beams
Oh, well, he was the one that because I remember listening back to it
He's the one that fits like he starts the tragic history of the don. He starts talking about it and then we all add to it
So did one of us add to it? Oh totally we all added to it
Like we all we all add elements to his story
I mean we all have said pretty much but he was I believe
With 100 certainty that he was the one that started the uh, the don there's more to don than meets the eye
But was the wife dying of cancer or something that I added because I can't remember. Oh
Oh
Oh, no, he's not in jail. He's I could have streaming
One that was robot head that said that but now i'm not so sure
But I don't know I could have been you because we might it because we were all adding to it
Yeah, no, you're right. It blossomed. So even though he's the one who began it and kicked it off
I don't know. That's like a 50 50. I really don't know if it was i'm gonna go with a robot head
But it definitely could be right robot head. Yeah, we'll stay robot head
When was it established that j was efaps manager? Okay, this is tough
Was it the jack saint air taxon stream that I could believe that
It wasn't five and seven I know that much
Well if you interpret him
As uh becoming the manager when we first met him five could be correct
Oh, well he said when it's established he was
He was there on 19
And I want to say that
It was because he was there for so long and the the arc had been like you come full circle as of 22 because he was helping
Us respond to criticism of us when he first he was featured first
So I think I made some kind of joke about him being manager. I I want to say 22
Anyone else have any takers for that one
Yeah, I got nothing
All right, uh, whose video was covered when the fat people can vote twice meme started
One sec. What did we what did you decide on on that last?
Uh 22
Whose video was covered when I want to say mark brown for some reason
It would make sense for it to be movie bob but we haven't covered movie bob
Other than recently and then ages ago
Twice I can't speak because the movie bob video or at least the one of the however many
I I dropped out of because I couldn't do it. I heard that
He couldn't do it either. Yeah, he killed him. He made it everybody except me and rags. We've survived so far
I wanted like I said, man. I I so regret not being there for that episode. Oh, no
I want to say mark brown myself, but it could be mark brown or quinn
No, it wouldn't be quinton because we never covered him outside of episode like
Eight and nine and the fat people can vote twice me was after that. So it's between joseph and mark
It's between joseph and mark I thought it was movie bob and mark
No, no movie bob. It can't be because we've only covered him very recently and then ages ago. Oh
Got it. So what would we have been covering for joseph anderson to give birth to that meme?
See, I I don't know
But I also don't know the answer to that for mark brown, but i'm almost for some reason i'm really interesting towards mark brown
Yeah, that doesn't sound like anything that would come out of a joseph anderson video but like
It shouldn't come out of either of the videos, right?
Doesn't make sense for you either
He's I guess it's just least likely to come out of joseph anderson really because I I again
I used to watch this channel up until he pissed me off about sona sona. So
Sona does anyone sona? Yeah, does anyone object to me choosing mark brown?
No, let's go ahead and go with it. Yeah, let's go with mark brown
When did wolf first say hello or my n words?
I want to warn between five
and
20
I was gonna go with 19
Just sworn jay was there for it, wasn't he?
Five seems like a kind of a
Two young were there because of i'm pretty sure it was just the three of us that started off that stream though because
Yeah, it was the three of us that started off that stream, I don't know if we brought on a guest later on
What do you reckon rex? That was
Man, I honestly have no idea. Oh, no, it couldn't have been five because fringy wasn't there
Ah
Hopefully he was there on five. Yeah, yeah, yeah for when
And then a rhino's worth of memes and checking out bad criticism
That was jay longbun was there and I I really don't remember her being there for the creation of that
Yeah, you might be right with 19. Yeah, I think it was 19
um
All right, good stuff process of elimination people who tweeted at molar in other words
I had no virtual visually no purpose on youtube until I made a six hour long review where I bitch about a 2.5 hour movie
Good for you. Really? Yeah, that's majorly
Majorly, he's a smart lad even dentists don't like game of thrones season eight. Yep
Which of these movies have never been mentioned afap masquerade has because that's rags
Yes, snow psa has because of the comparison with child and chakra factories. So we're down to a company man and cast away on the moon
Cast I never heard of either of those two movies. I want to go with cast me on the moon because I feel like a company man
May have been mentioned
Yeah, I I can't even remember cast
Yeah, it doesn't trigger any memories for me
All right, uh according to someone red apple means communism
Could be a drinker er didn't say anything so
Nerd erotic nerd erotic
I'm going with neurotic nerd erotic, huh?
Why why would gary's and red apple equals communists?
Who could have possibly dude, I think logic might have said that that sounds like something you might have said
Can be drinker nerd erotic or logic?
Oh, I guess I don't know the context of if this is just something they said unironically or ironically
Oh, yeah
I'm assuming it's a fucking joke
I doubt this is a funny. You never know. That's true. Very strange nowadays
Yeah, but these people are all normal people
He said
I personally I would vote for logic. I feel like it would have come up with him in some way shape or form as a dumb joke
I don't remember it being associated with critical drinker
Oh, he could have been that could have been something in the er stream. Actually, i'm not sure
Damn it. This is too hard
Yeah, come on man. You got to think of difficulty curves here
Don't think bless you know, I would have said it
Okay, when I noticed this quiz
you made this quiz for
a number of people who have the combined intelligence of like
I don't know like the combined IQ of
Forced gump. I like gotta make these questions easier. No, I like that. They're this tricky. I think this is like a good level
I did want to be too easy, but these are also like some things. I don't even believe happened
somebody said
I don't know if this is in purpose or nothing
But I was also noticing that some of the questions were easier in the middle. Oh
So the the middle isn't very long
Are we toward the end we are toward the end
Okay
What what do you guys reckon i'm gonna go with
Logic to myself and that's not because I think that's true. I just i've got nothing else in terms of I I pitch him at like a
Higher likelihood than the rest
Yeah, let's uh, yeah, let's go for it. Let's see. All right
Which videos featured on efap haven't been completed yet?
There's multiple choice. Oh, it is. Okay, this one's worth two points
All of these are multiple. Yeah, we did not finish the rags video
I we didn't finish the game of thrones genius of darkness video either. So that's the two
Uh, we definitely finished the sjw moments
Everything great about star wars i'm pretty sure we finished because I took two streams
Why core is better than avatar than ang i'm almost certain we did that one as well
Yeah, I think so. Yeah, it was pretty quick. Yep. Yeah, which of these lines were said by mauler
There is something to consider as in the other option
Don't be a
You don't know what you're talking about
Tell them I died as a beautiful woman
Can't say that i'm your uncle. I'm actually mute
Which of these so one of these was said by me
I feel like it's the second one. I think it's the first one
I'm pretty sure you said something like that before I I I think I really think it's the first one
If I was to go for one of these I probably would go for the first one, but again, I could be wrong
It's hard to remember exactly what i've said
These are fun questions because you're like, what did I say?
Um
Are we are we happy to go with the first one? Is everyone all right with that?
I I do think no. No, what do you reckon?
Who cares
Oh, I don't know
I really think it was the first one
I'm fairly confident
No three against one. Uh
If it's wrong
I was gonna say it's possible. It could be any of them. I I wouldn't I don't think any of these is something I wouldn't say
The correct answer is to leave it blank
Mms or skittles if we want to move on skittles skittles, obviously. Oh mms, of course. I was about to say mms. Yeah
So both are both we'll find out who's right or wrong about that one. We'll see the results
Worth any points. So we're equally
Which character did shatter visti choose for most inconsistent in star wars episode nine?
Ray
I'm, pretty sure he was no. I thought he said fin was I was about to say I thought he said fin
Yeah, he did say fin. Keep for keep forgetting who the one person is who agreed with me
What did you say? There's only one person who agreed with me. I said ray. I think
I think a couple of critical drinker the top votes of the fin and poe I think right now
I'll check as soon as well once we've done the quiz i'll check but uh, yeah, I think we'll go with
What do you mean the top votes you're not supposed to be looking at the chat
No, no i'm talking about i've got i've got a list of who people are voting for in terms of the
Inconsistency, he's the question
Got to keep track of it. Otherwise, what's the point?
Um, when did downward thrust officially become tonaled log? Oh my god
I want to say episode 21
Because he's been tonaled for such a long time, but I think 30 would be too new
Yeah, he didn't he didn't start off
That way didn't start off tonal
Yeah, it was it was 21. It was he was molded by the tonaled
It's gotta be 21. I think 21. Yeah, I remember that street
That was the one where he fucking he was talking about uncharted and he said a whole bunch of tisby shit
Yeah, we had to stop at like 12 times
Was that the first time that slowneld became a thing or was that possibly that's probably another question with having in the quiz
What was rag's first action in aliens colonial marines turning on his flashlight shooting yeah
What was maula's final rating of avengers endgame in efap 33
Oh
That one that was um, I know you gave it a nine
Oh, yeah, i'm pretty sure I gave it a nine subjectively. So it's the first one. Yeah, I think it's the first one
I was the 9.5. I think
Mm-hmm. All right, that was easy
Because I was like, I know I was crying like a fucking bitch
But I knew that there could be something that comes along that's even more emotional for me
Like shrek 5. Oh, yeah, so i'd have to save myself some room
Geez that ever happened if shrek 5 happens i'll definitely be crying
How about how long did it take the efap gang to cover extra credits five minute 57 second videos stop normalizing nazi's socially conscious game design?
Oh, no. Oh, jesus. Pretty sure it was the first one. I think it's two hours four minutes
The thing is is this counting?
So the moment we finish the video at what time code are we at or is it from the moment?
It does it it that wouldn't matter. Oh, well, we have
How long are our intros help you how long are our intros help you we have like half our intros
That would actually check. Look how close these answers are rags. You gotta consider
How long our podcasts are yeah, that's the fucking point of the question is the I know I think it's really long
Yes, one and three are really similar. So yeah, the problem is between minutes apart one and four
Between like 12 minutes or 30 minutes worth of time. I don't think covering a whole video with how much
We stop and we know you're right. But this is the thing to at least try and figure it out
It's like do you think this question is accounting for an intro?
Yeah
Probably maybe I don't know
No, if it is accounting for the intro like it's all included i'd probably go with two hours and four minutes myself
If it's not including the intro i'd go with an oh
We must have taken longer than an hour and a half we must have
I think so too. I think it's happened between one or three
I'd say go one. Yes, i'd say go long. I say long man. Good. I'm i'm okay with voting for one as well
Yeah, one was good what I was looking at first. Yeah, i'd go with one
Well, yeah, of course. It's what you looked at first. It was first on the list
Well, it was the longest one fucking bid that that video sucked shit
As of efap 49 which guest has been on efap for about one hour and 41 minutes. Oh fuck off
It's not 40. Um, because he was on an almost full episode
I was gonna say doomcock but he's not on here. It's doomcock. Yeah, you're right. It's doomcock was only on the one
Yeah, he had to leave as well. He did had to leave. Yeah
I was there you were it was my first appearance
All right. We got it. Where did the adoption question originate? That would be the arrival debate. Yep
Easy, which of these people chose luke as the most inconsistent character in start with episode nine?
Three points well, it wasn't me
I feel I feel like that was act man
I think if we can just figure out for his who's the one out of the four that didn't vote for because I know I
Didn't so it's between the remaining four
Wait, you haven't voted. No, I voted for uh fin. I believe so. I know i'm not the guy who voted for luke
Means either jeremy actman weekend warrior. I think we can't worry about for luke. Did he or did he?
Uh
Act man act man
I wasn't around for the act man one. So maybe I was gonna say we can i'll just tick the four
And we have to figure out which of these to untick
Have we even had that star wars girl on oh she came in on the game of thrones finale discussion and she did vote
Uh during that
Oh, okay, but I can't quite remember what everyone's votes were
This may have to be a guess
Oh damn
Who's little thinking like they're all checked except for you right now. Yeah, because I know I didn't vote for luke, right?
I
Fuck
So wait, it makes us think too hard we're not that smart I mean, I don't know I don't know
Hardest ones always take off jeremy. Yeah, i'm actually thinking I don't think jeremy voted for luke
So we should be all right. Should we just go with it? I'm happy to go with that
Yeah, let's just go with it. All right. I think I
I think we remember star wars girl voting for luke. Yeah, despite about hoke coming good
Yes
Here we go
All right. All right school's been recorded view it. How did we do?
21 out of 30
Wait, I got 16 out of 30
Oh
No, no, we answered the same thing
Copying the same answers
I don't know which ones do we get wrong? Okay. So yeah, so the episode nine question started in the jurassic world stream, apparently
It was not the uh, the one with oh
Yeah, I wasn't there for that one
Which of the following is not a quote from rag? So
The correct answer was how dare you shoot me? I'm a woman. You didn't say that
Wow, I didn't say that I was
I
Definitely sounded like something that you said well played quiz maker if this is true because I would believe he'd say that wow
You know me better than I do. I guess
You know me better than I do too because I swear I thought the last one was a meat quote
Where did the insult massive originate? It says the twitter the twitter argument. I don't think that's accurate
Because who will quiz the quiz makers
This is the thing unless they can quote it in the actual
Thread that someone made the joke of calling him a massive was the insult i'd be wrong
I'm almost certain it was one of you two that converted massive faggot into the offensive part was massive
I could have sworn that was you two that did that
I demand a fact checker. Yeah
I want to recount
Boxes was the guest when massive faggot was officially shortened to massive
What
My instincts were correct
I feel like I have to watch all of efab again because i'm a bad fan at this point
All right, we nailed that one because there was no wrong answer
Nailed that one
Yeah, the wrong answer was no wait bayouin's first drawing was kyle ben
It was sworn it was a creepy alien. I thought it was a creepy alien
Yeah, I did too because I know the kyle bin picture, but I thought oh, okay
Is that right I guess I
We is our memory faulty god damn
um
Okay, so we we got the j one the next one right and the next one, right
And the next one right and the next one, right?
Oh, man, we got a whole slew you were right about the middle being the easy part
It right right right there we go two it was j long bone that said red apple equals communism
Oh, fair enough. I really can't remember that at all. So
All right. Sorry nerd ironic. We nailed that one. Which of these lines was said by maula because you can't say that i'm your uncle
Okay, I can believe it
Really? I I could have
sworn you've said the first
You never know with these things m&m's or skills m&m's was the correct answer
Maybe you said it in the video
In a video on your channel that you did
maybe or
But because I could have sworn that somebody in a video said there are no other options like in like in a discussion
It has to be this there are no other option
You're like there's something to consider as in is like there's nothing to someone said there's like there's nothing to think about or consider
There are no other options and you'd say like yeah
There is something to consider as in the other options. Oh shad shows
That shows ray apparently not finn
I was right
Dun dun dun
That one right that one right that one. Listen to me. You see what happens when you don't listen to me
You guys hear something?
Oh, we will test we we were wronged by the degree in which we said was probably going to happen
Because it was it was between one and three and we chose the wrong one out of the two
We were only off by like 12 minutes which percentage wise is pretty close
Correct correct. Correct. You deserve have a point. Oh, yeah and spiderman homecoming being good. Yes is correct. I knew it
Knew it. All right. We did it. Not the best score ever but not bad considering, you know 21 out of 30
Not bad. Some of them may need to be you know, fact-checked just saying not not not suggesting anything here. It's all good. But um
That about does that
Every history of every frame of pause quiz. That was good shit
I feel like this might encourage other people to make more of these and i'm not against doing them. They're kind of fun
Yeah, the thing is I don't know where we fit them in exactly, but I like it
I like 650. We're not gonna remember what happened on episode one
I suppose we've kind of spoiled all of the answers now if you're watching that
So I guess there's no point in linking this but i'm gonna link it regardless in the description of this video once it's
Reuploaded because if I touch the live dashboard right now, it like tisms out my internet. So
I'm staying away from it. Also er is in our chat
And he's uh, he's willing to drop by
Come on in e semicolon r you have to knock out uh critical drinker. I will remove
Fuck you. So sorry
What you get for being a filthy scott?
Yes, you say hi hitler or heil hitler there's a very big difference
Me and hitler on good terms hitler and I
Yeah, hey, how you doing? Hello. How are you? How's uh, how's hitler doing?
Hey, you guys are buddies
Let's go out and watch movies together. Holy fuck. The lightning outside is insane
That's your opinion
Dude, it looks like er's eyes
Close you can stay forever into er's eyes
I don't know
We just got we've done with like every single picture meme and quiz meme. Oh, he doesn't hear anything
He can't hear us
Here man all those oh no, he can't hear us you need to adjust
All those loving comments and he heard none of them
I
Quite frankly you disgust me
I can't imagine the world would be any worse if you weren't in it
Uh, I hope you hit the car crash and your ears get chopped off. Mr er. Can you hear us my dear?
Oh, oh, yeah. Well, maybe hitler did do something wrong. How about that?
Whoa, right?
Back it up. Maybe maybe he's the villain all along. You ever think about that? Maybe he isn't
Okay
Even wolf is like I'm not finding any solutions you guys. Oh, no. Yeah
Uh, yeah, the brickwork at Auschwitz was shit. Yeah, did you what did you know?
Did you try turning your computer? I don't think he can hear us again
We can't help try all of the things yeah, you can do it I believe in you
You don't tell him I don't maybe you say something text-wise. Yeah
Yeah, that was a good idea. Nice one
Volume inputs good his audio inputs good. Yeah, we got that confirmed getting that guys
Yeah, god damn it think about no no you got this
No swearing. This is a good christian Minecraft server in yourself. You got this stuff. Oh got it
Oh my god. Oh, all right. Yeah, can you hear us, sir?
I can hear you just fine. Why do you sound strange?
Because it's late at night and i've had a very busy day. Oh, no, I was talking about the microphone going
Oh, that's because it was moving around my bed. Oh coming from zabunka
Yep, so you're saying that we are in your bed right now. What are you saying?
Close enough. I mean, I i've never tried to five somebody, you know
I've always wanted to always a first for everything
Yeah
And and now the question becomes what in the world should we do we've got another hour before we can split for another
stream so
Then we gotta make like a banana in split I get it. Well
The earlier suggestion we can ask the chat like one for a video and two for more me
Oh, yeah, because we've got plenty of meme videos we could react to or do you want us to try and tackle a video?
Let's see what chat seems to say meme or video even though meme video, you get what i'm saying
One for meme two for video there. That's the easy way of doing it. Cool and three for the
For the manatee three for the manatee which you'll milk on the island i'm seeing more twos than ones tasty
Oh, oh some ones two ones two
I was we uh, what was one and two again?
I
um
Two was two two was uh video. Oh, okay. Oh, we got a lot of ones. Fuck. I guess we should do a poll at this point
Oh, yeah. Okay. Sorry for wasting your time chat
Sorry chow. It wasn't ubiquitously
Unceremoniously this
depredactously obvious you can do a straw poll
Yeah, let's do that. Yeah, i'm setting one up buddy. I'm doing it right now
Keep the audience busy keep your numbers together
Come on. I'm whacking in the laban
We're liming
All right, choose the thing meme chat. Don't make us call you Fredo video reactions
Well, kek xd. There you go. Mozambique here
You can't use the kek word. I did it and no one stopped me. No one could
These don't say did someone say cock? No, that would be offensive
Doonkook
Nearly the hang on shot just hang in there buddies you can do it
We're almost there. Who drew your uh, who drew the little dude? Uh rags. Is it a meme or somebody do that by tony the tie?
What it was a pikachu from out
What?
What are spots? I love it. Who did the what?
No, that your avatar was that a was that from a meme or did you yes that is yes
Not a man pikachu did this
Now are there are there variations of everybody else
Uh, I don't think there's a variation of this with with my big ass cock just
Flopping out on the floor there, but I can't show that one for yeah. I can't show that one with discord
It's not my channel, but I do want to come back. Uh
I want to continue to be a guest
Okay, cool cool. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah
Actually, I get well, hmm. Yeah, I do. Yeah
But it looks like the video reactions. Lelkac XD has the votes right now
The pretty harsh split fuck me dry, mrs
What video are we gonna watch and actually manage to complete in one hour?
Well, we can go over one hour. Actually. We're capped at 12 hours. It's just that it would be a nice round off
So don't worry. Don't don't feel too don't feel too affected by
I was actually gonna say we can totally cover a tonaled video by the way
I wanted to cover this. Oh, yes. Did we cover the one where he screams?
Oh, we could do that one too. I want to do both of them
Too many hoops. He's got the first video. I'm probably not gonna stay on for this whole time
So I would like to see the screaming one. Okay. Yeah, we can do that one first. Uh, just gotta find it
It's been too long without tonaled I feel like I haven't had my daily dose of autism in quite a while
You need a good old shot in the arm
All right, this is the skittles poll all over again. Well jay the the the videos have it. All right
Can't win all the time if you have the arrival debate that's your one win for life. I win all the time
Yeah, right. This is typically one all the time. Is it can you name a single time? He's not one
I don't I ain't do nothing but winning. I'm just like a wind machine
Everywhere that wonderful link if you have not already clicked it jump into this watch together and we shall
Check out this is our good friend tonal gloke and he is you know what he's had enough. Wow
Tonal's had enough. I knew this is this is the ugly truth behind ea fifa and live video game services
These are these characters are like someone hit randomize on the sims
Look at mani. Yeah
He's black jared
That's not a good thing you mean blaret no, it's
No, black jared is basically just um jared from subway but black. Uh-huh
So for context
Tonal tonal reserves himself
As as a professional does they they they get the job done. They talk objectively about what is happening in the world
You know what? They went too far with fifa and so we're about to experience
Full emotional unyielding elements of this wonderful content creator. Uh
Being pure. Let's say that he's being pure. All right, is everyone ready?
Here we go
To the day was coming the day where games will make more money with micro transactions
Subscriptions were in game purchases then they would
Selling their actual game
Do we have him on slow hold or is this really just how he's talking he's just talking this slow
Also, i'm pretty sure isn't gta 5 already crossed into that that its microtransactions make more than the sales of its games
I don't know his gta 5 video didn't make any sense. So
Well, I grand theft auto has been out for so long
I was just gonna say like the question is did it fail?
Oh no
Because this is his contention in this video is that fifa is now making more money from its microtransactions that it is from selling
the game itself
Which doesn't surprise me by the way. I was just like, yeah, okay
People selling fucking shit tuds on the uh, the what is it like dream team shit making cod packs?
I don't know. I don't know how a football works
What am I a scientist?
Didn't know that that day would come so soon
Because we know that the majority of people who buy games don't buy in-game purchases or loot boxes
a small minority does
And those people don't account
That was a weird pause
It was a weird pause. I mean we are watching a total video. That's just a normal pause
He's like only the small minority do not the majority and most people do not do it
It was in case we missed the point you gotta be careful
So great buy in game purchases in battlefield one where we replayed the clip like
11 times he was he had a battlefield one clip playing and we just couldn't figure out what he was saying
Or no, we we knew what he was saying
We were trying really hard to believe that it wasn't what he was saying
We were giving him more benefit of the doubt than he honestly deserved. Yeah
Bad games are not bad or something. We are nothing if not generous
It was definitely stupider than that. I was gonna say it was it was a complex stupidity. I swear
Yeah
These are loot boxes a small minority does and those people don't account for the greater population of sales. Well, that's
This is a self-fulfilling statement congratulations
Yes, that is correct. Thank you for telling us this total minority does not account
I should be I should be good delving this what was the statement?
Um
Back it up. All right. We want to make sure it's proper
The good old man would be unhappy with me if I was to mishandle a quote from tom
purchases or loot boxes a small minority does
And those people don't account for the greater population of sales. Well
So a small minority do not account for the greater population of sales
No for the greater population of
I
Don't see
It's random pause is a fantastic
Wait, I still read it home already. Oh, here we go
All right
Oh that small minority of people is very lucrative into a game called fifa as we now know that that game makes more money with
Its ultimate team packs than it does selling the actual video game, which is absolutely crazy. Whoa
Whoa
That's absolutely crazy, man
By the way, just for context. I don't have the tweet, but I'm pretty sure he tweeted this video
I was being like, sorry guys. I get really emotional in this one
Chill the fuck out total jesus happy worry of 2019 fifa 19 has been estimated to have sold over 20 million copies
This is the most emotion i've ever heard in his voice
And I have seen almost every tonaled video in existence doesn't it make sense right from the fart
His favorite game all the time is fucking fifa
He's the one man that does make a strange kind of sense. Yes, like of course it is you robot
0.2 billion dollars in sales
20 million copies you're telling me that's only a fraction a tiny fraction
Of what fifa ultimate team brings? Well, no, no, it's not that it's a tiny fraction of what it brings in
It's that it's now making more money off microtransactions. That's probably inevitable, right?
Yeah, I like it eventually
Yeah, probably eventually especially if it's a game as a service that continues on and on and on. Hmm
I love that when tonaled actually gets emotional his voice starts cracking and it sounds like he hasn't gone through puberty yet
Like it also kind of sounds like he's got a stuffy nose
He's not used to this guys
He's give him a chance this usual voice is like a farce and this is his real voice
He just sounds like a little child trying to sound really emotional
They fucked with his ear and his fifa don't fuck with tonaled's fifa
I can't believe the only thing that would be better is if you liked madden
Yeah, like so i'm trying to think what's the most like generic
Fucking video game you could have a huge passion for like have you ever ever heard someone be like oh fifa man
That's top of the line video gaming right there. You're like because people are like football fair enough. He just abandoned my fan
fifa
Don't don't take offense to people in chat with like fifa. It's okay to like fifa
I just find it amusing that this is like peak gaming for him
This is the one that broke tonal i'm telling you for real
I honestly didn't think this was real when I woke up and saw this article
So I had to do my own digging god, that must be a shocker. It's a surprise
You have to do your own digging for your video, huh?
Yeah, you have to open up google
Entitling I mean who is who would let everybody else do all the digging for you and you just compile the information lazily and pass it off to
He wouldn't have how could you imply that he pulled up the 10k annual report myself and I read the entire thing whoa
Is
Can you can you like roll it back like five seconds wait, this is his forte, right?
This is this is was his job. He was like an accountant or whatever. Didn't he say that I don't know the video
So this makes sense. This is in line with his law
He seems intelligent
Well, he sounds like he's about to cry
Okay, let's pull it back
I'm telling you for real. I honestly didn't think this was real when I woke up. I'm telling you for real
I did not think this was real
Okay, but you know what it's real
For real. I didn't think it was so I had to do my own digging
And I pulled up the 10k annual report myself and I read the entire thing and it is true
So let me spit something really does sound he was on the verge of crying. Did you did you hear that like wafer in his voice?
Yeah
Dude they fucked with his fifa. They fucked with his fifa
I cannot
For the life of people leave that tonal is getting like on the verge of tears over fifa
In the world he's passionate about yes, this might be the most poetic thing I think i've ever seen in my life
Some numbers that you guys say it will blow your mind as of today's
Total umbrella of revenue under that umbrella 45 percent of it comes from live services
That's 45 half of that number 45 percent is almost half
like yeah
What happened to him saying a small tiny percentage
He was referring to a small percentage of people doing microtransactions was he was yeah
I think he said like he said afterward
He was talking about people contributing to more than almost more than half the revenue you say like
No, he said like I think he said something else like because I interjected small minority don't account for the greater population of sales
Oh the thing
45 is almost 50 and 50 is almost 60 and 60 is more than half
I think we need to slow like pull it back and slow that 45 is almost half. I
I do think I I don't know if this was anyone else. I might think i'm crazy
But I know i'm not crazy
So there must be I just could have sworn
that he
Said a thing that he's saying something different now
I was saying I just thought I had a that I thought I had a feeling and I read the entire thing
And it is true
So, let me spit some numbers that you guys spit some numbers low your mind
as of today
Total
Umbrella
of revenue
Under that you always slowed old wix is because it really accentuates which words he pauses on and you're like, why is he posing there?
Yeah, the cracks in the pavement become mighty chasm. Yeah
umbrella
45 percent of it
comes from live
services
that's
almost
half
of that number
ultimate team
accounts for 28 percent
When that number's on the rise
in 2018
It was 21 percent. Okay
2017 it was
16 percent
So over three years
It's grown
12 percent
All right, not
Not necessarily it's important to note that this is percentage of their total revenue. It's not direct profits being made off of the game
So if they're losing money in other aspects or not making as much generally then this might just constitute a larger amount just a
Difference that must be stated so that no one is confused
Right, it's just that's just how the chunk of the total profit
That ultimate team
Is being accounted from fifa?
their number one game
The rest falls into like I said subscriptions in game purchases loot boxes
EA origin access stuff like that
45 percent which is soon to be over 50 percent. I guarantee next year
That is absolutely
Sure, I can't believe there are people out there that have spent more than one point two
billion
All right, no one out there has spent 1.2 billion dollars, I don't know why he phrased it that way
It's not one person. It's a lot of people. Yeah, it's not just the one dude one big whale if
voting five times dude
I need to hear that billion
Put that at 25 stuff like that
45 percent which is soon to be over 50 percent I guarantee next year
That is absolutely crazy
I can't believe there are people out there that have spent more than one point two
Oh
Oh, you just wait and wait and then there's the payoff. Oh, yeah, it was so beautiful
It was like waiting for an explosion. It was dazzled
Now that that was an epic gamer moment yeah total do you you breathe life into me?
I
Should just watch tonal videos to cure my depression it seems to work
A 12 billion is way more than a billion from anyone total billion. It's like a baker's dozen
We'd like we let me say I hope he makes millions more videos. He's a fucking treasure
Love him. I want him to be successful on youtube just so we have more excuses to watch this
Pax
And we might have to put it to normal. I don't know how much I can take
right
In the game anyway, we have to assume it's either a kids with their mommy's credit
He just ate kids with the mommy's credit cards totaled
How could you all buying packs in the ultimate team mode which is a side mode in the game anyway?
We have to assume it's either a kids with their mommy's credit cards
So he was supposed to say it's either a kids with a credit, but it sounds like he said it's either eight kids with
Children must be found and brought to justice specifically eight of those fucking children
I can't believe that eight children have spent 1.2
Billion
I think it's just a lot of normal people who just spend money on it
This is one of their money sinks. I want to take that billion clip and make it my ringtone
Which is a side mode in the game anyway
We have to assume it's either a kids with their mommy's credit cards who don't understand the concept of well well
This is the thing that he always does he does not
He writes his script assuming he will enunciate properly or break it up properly
But then he just reads it all as one so he's like, uh, well buddy, you're like, no no total no of well money
You don't sound human
like a robot
Well, he looks at well money. I think of like a bunch of money at the bottom of a well
Yes, it pulls up a bucket just a fence going for the leprechaun at the bottom of the well
I also like the idea that if you play this back to him, he would just have a blank expression like yes
There is no I just I detect no issue
Yes, I cannot ascertain any problems with my speech patterns. I apologize for my emotional outbursts during this particular video and you're like, that's okay
don't
We have to assume it's either a kids with their mommy's credit cards who don't understand the concept of well money
or of well money
Well money. Did I am I sure I wrote?
These questions every single video he makes is like this
I will seek maintenance at the mechanical institution
For its fans that must have everything right now these two groups of people
These two two groups of people
Why do you talk this way it's almost like he was gonna say a really nasty slur and he stopped himself
Yes, have groups of people these two pieces of these two people
these massive
groups of people
The reason why this crap gets crammed inside video games
Unnecessarily at every opportunity not just sports games. That's correct. Yes single player every game at every opportunity
Not just sports games
Like I think I think you covered that it is I mean I get a point it is getting prevalent and the only reason yeah
That's the only reason they do is because people buy it
If you didn't buy it if if you if you there's a lot of people out there
Who are just normies and they don't give a fuck about the industry about the health of the industry
They don't care about the the aspects of the game and the mechanics. They just want to play their stupid fucking soccer game
And they'll spend the poor money into it so they can get their magic little shiny ass cards for it. And that's why
Everybody has to suffer because of fucking derrick playing his fifa game
He's got to have his shiny ronald. Oh soccer man card
Yeah, fuck you derrick fuck you derrick piece of
I'm actually picturing an animation with this poor little chubby kid playing fifa and you're in the background like fuck you derrick
Derek you are one of the eight children. How do you feel? Why it's like it's like in um, uh, the movie we saw um
Uh
The mexican one. Wait, what? Oh sicario
Yeah, sicario. It's like sicario
They got a line the reason these drug these drug cartels never go away
And they're only around because all the people who smoke crack
Like if people didn't buy the product and use it and ruin their lives with it then these drug cartels wouldn't exist
That's the big true true
1.2 billions
We got to do that one more time when this
And also of all the examples you can pull for predatory
Loot boxes and microtransactions shoved into games. This is honestly a terrible example
I mean especially with the fifa
No, wolfenstein one. Oh wolfenstein, right?
I mean with all the apex crap that's going on and with all of the stuff that
There's way better examples than this game, which
Is honestly getting I think getting undue hate but the microtransaction in this game you'd forget they were there
well
It did go after his precious fifa. So nothing is off the table now
I'm surprised tonal just declared war on microtransactions
As a side note, we'll have to talk about that undo hate comment later regs. I want undo hate
This game, what do you feel about it?
Well from everything i've seen it looks like a giant pile of garbage. Have you played it?
No, all right
Rex did a review on it
I think it's I think it's I think it's fine
I mean i've seen a bunch of clips from like the campaign and like the dialogue from the character. Oh, yeah
The dialogue is terrible. Oh, yeah, the dialogue's terrible. The protagonists are awful. The plot is fucking nonsensical. Fucking retarded
I mean, I I don't know anything about the gameplay the gameplay if it's anything like the last game then I like the game
I assume it'll probably be fine. But yeah, I like playing the game. It's I don't know how to feel about like the
Making it into more of an rpg light. It's it's okay. It works fine
It's not like a huge deal. It seems kind of like
It's I don't know antithetical to wolfenstein
It kind of does fuck me depends on execution. Um, I think that it's done well enough
That it isn't an issue i'd prefer it not be in the game, but it's mostly an offensive
They're very generous with how quick you level up and what they give you for everything. So it's not like you're
Grinding to try and get upgrade and stuff. It's pretty much just a replacement for your character. Just get stronger over time
I just kind of feel like it. I don't know
It's really disenfranchised with the series after the new colossus
Yeah, the new colossus was yeah, it's just such a shame because it's definitely a downturn for the series
Um new order was so good
You know amazing new blood the new blood wasn't or old blood rather it wasn't a great game
But it was at least entertaining the new colossus was just garbage
Yeah, it was yeah, it sucks because like the the new order actually works as a standalone really well, so
Kind of sucks that they decided to take it and fuck it over
Well, I would say if you're gonna if you're gonna have an incredible hate vitriol
Um, you probably better targets than young blood young blood's pretty offensive and or sorry inoffensive in the overall thing
There are far more things that deserve your hatred. Do you mean like in terms of microtransactions or oh, yeah
Well, yeah, just just in general i'd say
I mean like right now apex is the big offended people hate respawn
If you're gonna direct your hatred towards anyone respawn is fucking pre-marrow numero uno target. Oh right now
I'm probably actually gonna I I was talking with some people play apex, but but um, because we're a bunch of we're a bunch of
Fucking freeloaders, you see?
Um, I think i'm gonna make like a fuck you respawn video
Oh
Because I fucking hate it
What about the uh ceo that uh responded and apologized recently? Oh fuck him
Fuck him. All right, not really. No like that. I don't his this and this
disingenuous fucking garbage bullshit
He's gonna give out about oh, we just want to make a game with fair microtransactions and a good model for yeah
Fuck you. Asshole. This game's had broken microtransactions
since day
One and it's only become so egregious recently that people just can't contain itself
It was a straw that broke the camel's back
This game has always had shit microtransactions
Such shame because I love apex legends as a game play it all the time
But you can't you can't support it. There's no way to really support it because you're getting fucking ripped off with everything
So those are I think it's just gonna die eventually because it's just it's too
That's okay, honestly because
The entire battle royale genre needs to die because it's garbage and terrible
I don't I mean it depends it depends on how it's done like pub g and apex legends play like two insanely different
They're so different. Yeah pub g plays like a broken pile of shit
Well, the herd has gotten a lot better recently and i've probably put about 200 or so hours into it
I've mostly liked it
I put like maybe a couple hours into it
Uh, this was a while back though
And I mean the the game ran like shit and the ping was horrible
Yeah, yeah
It used to be really rough
Uh, it did get better over time, but yeah, it's definitely a rough game
Remember when it came out for the xbox?
Oh my god. Oh, yeah the eight. Yeah the xbox one x
Can you play pub d at 4k?
Oh, man. I heard the videos it was
I was at a friend's house a while back and he was playing it and it looked like a ps2 game
It was terrible the textures wouldn't even load
Exactly. Like the objects are like tarps everywhere
Yeah, it looked horrible
Yes chat I did just say right
I agree though. I'm I'm sick to fucking death of the battle royale genre and I like i'm dying for something with that'll
Stick with me for once. What do we have?
That's what i'm looking forward to orion the will of the wisps and doom eternal cyberpunk
Yeah, like the other game
Let me see. I don't remember what the name of it was
It looked really fucking cool. Death stranding is really strange as hell and i'm just i'm really curious
Invisible. I know i've got remnant on my list ion fury. I'm gonna make a review for that
Which is what I wanted would have done and finished today, but e fappen
Um, yeah, there's all sorts of crazy stuff coming up. I got into a city builder game recently cliff empire
Uh, you know i've been playing sakura lately that game is so cool
It is pretty cool
It's pretty cool. I really like it. I got uh, outer worlds is coming out, but it's a epic game store exclusive, right?
You guys should see it's uh, it's in relation to the quiz we just did
I consider it a beautiful piece of artisticness not autisticness artistic
Stick
Hey, god, the growth is back
No, make me beautiful you're too talented to not make me beautiful
Rags demands beauty looks like some horrible demented. You look like you look like shift boy rd
Make me
Wolf looks like this quiz
Uh, so should we see what tonald has to say the end of his uh, yes
Yes, yes games they infest single player games they infest franchise games they infest all manner of titles
Why why bother specifying two types if you're just gonna say all of them
You're a special man he's like I like that he's like making little pauses to breathe like they're taking
Single player games and multiplayer games and everything else. I want to experience that in slow and hold back
I'm
I'll I'll stick up for tonal here a little yeah, I totally agree. I absolutely agree with the point
It's just just hilarious. I was gonna say the phrasing i'm fine with but just to get the point of cross single player
It happens to knives forks and cutlery
All kinds of games it's just to wrap it all up all the stuff I didn't mention all those games
I'm just trying to get we all know you're giving you're giving tonal to pass because you're in love with it
We all know it right. No, i'm not
video games
This is a
This is a professional courtesy at every opportunity
Not just sports games
they infest
single player games
Infest franchise game you could hear his individual breath
By the way
Franchise games and single player games those are where it's franchise
what I guess games that have like
They're in a franchise
questions like like
like uh
Okay, how many single player games do I need to point out that are franchise? What I mean is a strange
separation
I almost said nissan
That's weird. I don't know why but my brain said nissan like that was super
They infested jeeps
Toyota
Steering wheels
They they're here
To do this
I don't blame
Whatsoever as a business it makes complete
sense that if people are willing to pay for something that you
Put that crap inside your product. It's a crack or crap
It makes sense people are gonna pay for it to put crap inside your products then he's not I said crack
The drug I thought he said the drug crack. Would he be wrong if that was what he said?
I don't think so. Oh, no, it works both ways. That's absolutely
I don't think it's ethical though to do this
To chase around litigation across really fast now. Yeah, I put him to 0.75
I thought that he was like speeding through like doing the whole um movie bob thing. I can't believe he's
He's kind of nailing this though. It's like yeah, the problem isn't the legality. It's the
Ethicacy, so good job tunnel. That is actually what we typically discuss with this stuff. It's not
Necessarily that they've broken a law which is a problem or anything. It's just the fact that they're operating within the law doing things
that we consider to be
Going a bit far. Yeah, this is good for the long-term health of the industry. Absolutely
How is he going to
How is he gonna mess up this point?
I don't think that's the right thing to do morally
But there is a business at stake here
There is a customer that demands this product. They are willing to buy them
So can you really blame them at the end of the rainbow? Yes
Wait, all right, I don't I don't understand what that's supposed to mean
I
Could have said at the end of the road at the end of the day
He went for the end of the road, but then he messed it up and kept it
I have a theory. I have a theory and it goes as such
All right
There it he is tonaled is an epic gamer. Okay, I'll know
You rise up in mario kart. What's the last level on every mario kart game rainbow fucking road
Rainbow fucking road tonaled was thinking about rainbow motherfucking road
in his head
And so instead of putting down a road he put down rainbow
You know what would make him short circuit if you show him one of those rainbows. That's a circle. He'd be like what the fuck
Where's the end to this rainbow
Rainbow milks in chat and I got rainbow milk. What the fuck man?
so
What was the thing he said the last time you guys covered him? That was really odd
Uh, the wheels got to keep turning
I was gonna say well, if you'd be more specific
Well, I feel like the last time you guys covered him I wasn't there for that
uh
He said something to the in the same vein as this at the end of the rainbow like a phrase that you understand
Oh, uh twiddling your fingers
Oh, yeah
The
You can tell this is a totalism because he's just put a word in that's not supposed to be there
Totalism I want to I want to listen to it one more time and slow it old
right
There is a customer that demands this
Pride
They're willing totally your rainbow
So can you really blame them at the end of the rainbow
What a beast
Some people are saying in fairness you have the hole
There's a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow
Look at the way. He just used it. He's absolutely supposed to be saying at the end of the day
But he says at the end of the fucking rainbow
Damn it my rainbow road hypothesis might not be correct. It is absolutely a totalism
He's combined like two different sayings without realizing it. He just thinks it works twiddling his fucking fingers
It would have worked if he didn't construct it like that
You
If no one is
Willing to stop them if there's no laws in place to do so they have the incentive to keep doing it
Especially when you consider this small tidbit that I hunted down which is that their net bookings
Which is another word for sales or net income for these particular products is down
236 million dollars from last year at this very date
So what are they doing?
They're relying on their most popular game to carry them to the finish line while their other products
Perhaps are suffering in the digital sales department. So if even players this is exactly why this crap will never go away
Yeah, there's no finish with these people. Yeah, I know finish line. It's just they're just gonna
Keep that gravy train rolling as long as I can. Yeah, it's all middle. They can yeah
It's not like a business is like that wants to make a million dollars for closing up shop
You know, i'm just saying at the end of the fucking rainbow, like what do you really expect?
Wait, what happened?
Bayouin said he said small titbit
titbit
Lying on their most popular game to carry them to the finish line while their other products perhaps are suffering in the digital sales department
So if you the players this is exactly why this crap will never go away
Ever any laps delay or failure in our ability to provide high quality live service content to consumers over an extended period of time
Could materially and adversely affect our financial results
Consumer engagement with our lives. What was the first one could materially and adversely
Materially and adversely, okay that first one's odd, but all right
And cause harm to our reputation and brand
Oh my god, they are on planet mars
I never thought the day would come where I would hear tonal doing the fake youtuber laugh. I know
How robotically he insulted them like they are on planet mars
It's literally like data got an experimental chip for his robot brain
Walking around saying weird stuff isn't quite right
Raised I agree captain. That is crazy as if they care about planet mars, but man, they are on planet mars
Oh wait, he said it twice. Oh, he said it twice and that was it. Wait, we have to what are you sure?
We didn't just enhance slow. No, that was it enhance slow. No
Oh my god
They are on planet mars
If this is all they care about man
They are on planet
Mars
Subscribe
It's like it's like
I like a subconscious. Uh, what was it called? Um subliminal messaging. Yeah, subscribe
subscribe
Thank you tonal he's you know what sometimes you think like oh we're going to cover a tonal video will it
You know provide us the memes that we we wish for and it doesn't fail. It never fails
It is the dude's a gold mine. He's amazing. I love this man
There's not a single video he's made that isn't perfect
Tonal we love you here. Oh, we love you 1.2. We love you
I was wondering where you were going with the 1.2 for yeah for a second. All right for god. I was like, where's it go?
Go fuck 1.2. I thought it was like it was like, oh look it's a beyond number. That's cute
Yeah, I suppose um
I just I just added because there was there was actually a super chat that says I think something on the lines a while ago
That uh, james mole should pop in
Episode 50 i've given him an invite to this group. Oh, there he is
Fucking paid for it. Mr. James. How'd you do gates? It'll all make sense
Howdy god, hey, how you doing? Hello
Hi is oh, yeah, me too
We tired of your boys I just fucking popped my monster right now
Have you fucked your monster, sir?
No, I just popped one right now. That's my first one. Oh energy drink, right?
Three years. Oh my god. Are we driving you to drink?
No
How how much of the stream of had you been have you when did you join us?
I missed the first two hours
Ah
I haven't actually cracked up in any energy stuff yet. I've got it all prepped in case i'm still wired but i've got another eight of us
I had one but I got three more I I went and got some
I gotta be careful because if I have them too early the come down will push me into like super sleep mode before we're done
So I gotta aim to I want to start them about five hours before I think we're ending
I aim to keep going, you know
Gosh darn it. I don't plan on going to bed. I'm going straight to work after this. Oh, man
Don't let efab do this to you
There's some this is the sad part. I don't know how many people in in the chat will have been uh,
We've been here for the full 24. Um
I know I know a whole bunch of guys
But there's gonna be a bunch of people who did it and I will will will not even know their names will not even know
But I will never know the name of
The best smuggler except we do and his name's Han Solo. No, he was the general
He was the general of all the smugglers in the army. He's the army general
General smuggler. He smuggled smuggle. He couldn't he could smuggle entire armies
Um, I was actually gonna say since I think I think it makes sense
There was a video I always wanted to cover out of curiosity from I believe it was just right
Oh, um, and and I just I don't know it just it seems to line up and it's not necessarily a bad video
It'll just be interesting as a sort of
vehicle, uh, it relates to
A little old thing because I know I know I know we all have had difficulties with just right
It was called what we can learn
from legend of core
Yeah, well this is the thing it could be a trick
It's the kind of thing where it's like we could learn from like I could have made a video called what we can learn from
Tlj, you know, I mean
So i'm almost positive actually that this is a pretty
positive core of video
What do you mean? I'm sure I've watched a bit of it is about core before
Yeah, I don't know. It's this one. I think i've watched this video in the past and disagreed with it
Well, i'm excited that
Shouldn't shouldn't this be capitalized for the period at the end?
Oh, we're hoping making to another one of these things also, uh, james if you want to join us
Uh, if you scroll up in the in the chat, you can find a link to the watch together
That'll that'll jump you right in if if you're interested of course
Yeah
I'm in. All right. Now. I haven't um, I haven't seen kora, but thankfully we have a kora expert
I was about to say i'm just gonna relegate this
We got experts in here that we'll enjoy the commentary from because I don't fucking know what this shit is
It's like a show for kids or whatever space wizards. I don't know. I saw I saw the original avatar just not kora
Good good. Keep it that way don't ever watch anything else
Yeah, the things are getting weird around kora. I couldn't really do I dropped out like halfway through season two
It was horrible same same
You guys aren't true fans then
I'm perfectly fine with that. I was about to say just agree with me. It's okay
You're not a fanatic it's fine
Whenever someone asks me why I love the legend. Oh, there you go. It's a good question. Holy fuck. He loves the legend of kora
Oh, no
What did you do? Justy? What's his real name? I shouldn't call him. Justy
I think his name is I think it's just
With the dubbing we should call him whiting justin. Right that could be it
The papyrus don't use papyrus never someone asked me why I love the legend of kora
I tell them because it is a show about
Ideas. Ask you
Stop putting words on the screen. We've had enough of that for the this whole stream. We can't do it anymore
It is it's what does that say? Biggity biggittiest biggittiest he's an ancient scholar biggittiest
Problem with papyrus you have to put a double space between the words for it to be legible
Oh fuck right his name is sage I forgot his sagacity told you it was sage
If we put his name is literally sage
Yeah sage hayden
Sage hayden didn't it?
Is it hayden or hayden? I forget if it was a y or a it doesn't matter. I I thought it was
We need I could be wrong. I should be talking about biggittiest biggittiest. There's gonna be memes for biggittiest already
It is me it is I biggittiest kora scholar someone already put in biggittiest baguins
I imagine biggittiest
But he'd go about with down syndrome. He sounds so real biggittiest
Guys this is a serious video we have
Fucking biggittiest. We can't spend all this time talking about biggittiest. Okay. Yes someone can
Someone in the chat. I'm sure someone will know there's this video made by these like down syndrome people
On youtube. Okay, there's like this. There's one chick who's like
What's going on here?
And then there's like this turn around from like one of the down syndrome dudes before another one's like it's backfist
Yeah, he doesn't pronounce
The retard that turns around like photoshop his face on the bilbo and that'll be biggittiest
I'm sure I'm sure someone will know biggittiest can slot right into efab law
like he could be one of the first people to note the adventures of goliath and
Fucking just everything about the world biggittiest
The scholar of the first chicken
Scholar the first so I gotta answer this wolf. What do you think of tool's new song for your inoculum?
It's fucking great
Everyone listened to tool are amazing
I haven't listened to a band in a long time. A lot of it is video game. Have you listened to anything by biggittiest?
Well, biggittiest has proven to us that the story and the legend of the cosmic chicken is always moving
Yeah, he's he's created the first second third and eighth testaments
He skipped a few one might even say that the legend of the great cosmic chicken is poultry in motion
I I I appreciate that
I get it golf club. That's yeah, that's yeah. I think that was okay. Well, let's back to biggittiest back to big
Ideas biggittiest it's about egalitarianism terrorism
Theocracy anarchy freedom fascism small villain tsd just to name a few
I'm sure that all of these ideas were presented really well and nailed in terms of their meaning and what they mean for society
Yeah, all from villainous standpoints. So that kind of colors it a little bit
just a bit
And even though it is allegedly a children's cartoon it deals with these allegedly
This is the picture of biggittiest big allegedly, oh damn also known as biggest tickets biggest
Themes in a highly sophisticated way
You see most great stories when you get down to the core of what they're saying operate exactly like essays
All stories operate like essays. All right, I would say that a story is like an essay in action
It's a big claim cotton. Let's see how it pans out
In fact, I describe a story as an essay in action. That's because both stories and essays are about presenting an idea. No
No
No, no, no, no
Well, I guess the idea
they can be is
Try to present like a world and characters as true to believe in
Well, the thing is like if you want your story to present an idea as in I don't know fascism bad
Let's go with that one for simplicity's sake
You could also just run a story and someone could be like, oh so your idea was fascism bad
And you just look at them like no, I just wanted to make a story about this awesome character who lives in this society
that's
difficult for him to operate and you're like
Um, i'm, sorry, but why why did he put like 37 spaces between story and essay?
Because he ain't doing beginning again. This ain't papyrus anymore
Even theo said that's a fucking reach my man. Oh, yeah
Present an idea is true. I think what well, what if they're just asking the question? Well, so this is presenting the the
The idea this is the problem with interpretation as well
Yeah, yeah, exactly when people are like game of thrones seasons 8 episode 5 denarius fucking obliterates everything and she wins king's landing
So they're saying we should burn people in order to save them. It's like no
It's like oh
She saves the city by killing everybody. Isn't that what the story is saying? It's like no, I don't
Just because uh events take place. It doesn't necessarily mean they're absolutely justified as the best thing to do in the circumstance. So
What i'm trying to say is story stories have things happen in them and to then conclude the story is saying those ideas are true
Or good or something like that is like that's you need more evidence for that like actual characters trying to support it or um
The opposite being presented as inaccurate
That's what I think he might be going for
That a character within the universe
The story itself would present the idea is true in the universe, but not necessarily true out here
Like what is the what is
Think about movies where you would just scratch your head and say what idea here is being presented as true
Like what is like duel?
Spielberg's first movie. What is the idea that's being presented as true? You'll find John witt. Someone will be what is
It's an interesting one. What would people say is
Don't fuck with pets
It's a good kill. Yeah, and if the idea presented is don't kill dogs your history will always catch up to you. There you go
You can do this forever everyone can even if the author was like, no, there is no point
I just wanted some badass like no I can see a point in your story and your ideas were presented as true with supporting evidence
It's like what if you come there are no doubt stories that are designed to simply ask questions about the way you view the world
Then make you question the way that you do see the world or maybe try to
color your perception in a more sophisticated way or portray things as
Not quite as black and white as you might think that they are. These are things that are purely presenting not an idea is true
But asking questions are relying on interpretation
While an essay is almost absolutely like essays are constructed of i'm going to prove a point is true
Or at least present all of my evidence for one
I mean if you have 10 people and you talk to them about what is what did x machina?
Teach you what what what idea did it did that movie present as true? You might get 10 different answers
Oh, absolutely. Our arrival god forbid
We discovered that what idea was presented as true
But what was the point of arrivals thing that that wasn't being presented as true?
You ask I guess people are getting
Upset that like am I am I not ending when we've reached the eight hour? We're gonna push it past
It's all right. Apparently the cap is 12. We cannot we absolutely cannot go past 12
We'll go as far as whatever this video leads to and then I will cut it
This is the middle portion. That's the longest portion as we are aware
The middle has to be the longest
For the for the sake of four equal sections. Do we need to cut it here and then just do it in the four sections
Well, there's only three sections
Three hours eight sixteen twenty four so it seems yes, so it seems so this one
Let's say this one goes to 10 hours. Then the final part will be six hours
Okay, it'll all work out. Don't worry. We'll be fine. We do that six hours of super chats
I'm gonna have to
I might have to stay awake beyond the 24 hours just to read them. It's gonna be fun. I have energy drinks. It'll be fine
I've got three as well and i've already had more alcohol normal
Hooray, see this discredit opposing position stories don't necessarily do that whatsoever. They can support one idea
Yes, chat, I know 24 divided by three is eight I thought it was six I thought we were doing six sections
Six hour sections and then he said then I was like, oh, yeah, that's right
Which in fairness to rags that was the original plan actually
Yes
Sorry, so I may have fumbled my words there so discredit opposing position
So the idea that a story presents one side is great and then it's go. This is the other side
Look how stupid they are
Some stories will present two sides that are both equally valid or at least have pragmatic slash altruistic elements to them
We're just talking about civil war in the in the first third
Totally tries to argue that both sides have a credit and discredit
But then there are also stories. They're like this side is great. You're like, what about the opposing side and they're like, hmm
What opposing side?
Never mind. Anyway moving on and you're like, oh they didn't even talk about it
This is the problem with trying to
Talk about because like what we'll probably say is a good or bad essay is ones that do or do not
Discredit like the idea that you go it is just simply true that everyone drives a car
Like you're going to talk about the people who don't like no
Like there'll be a shit essay
But a story could do that and still be of interest like a world where everyone drives cars
I don't you get probably what I mean. There's a difference between stories and essays as far as i'm concerned
I think we're all agreed
Yeah, i'm there
Positions but to understand the way that kora does it we have to talk about a 19th century german philosopher. Of course fucking christ
Yes, we do
What does that cool about some fucking philosopher we're writing that one down
Let's go in and get down those exact same fucking shit as uh, what was it karl marx was the last one?
We came across this with
Yeah, er, uh, so it right in the middle
Right in the middle of a brown table video. He's like
Um, I enjoy good art. I can just dislike bad art uh artists objective, but I can also be bad
This brings me to karl's marks
Just like wait, what?
Wait, wait, what about with you on that one?
Uh, but yeah, how did he jump here to talk about a 19th century german philosopher?
19th century german. Why was his last name a different font than the rest? That really irritates the shit out of me
German
Boss
I gotta get all this down accurately guys
You know how gedel looks like he lost the font and forgot what it was
Didn't bother looking under font.com for it
Um, he wants
For arguing that good ideas can come from unexpected places including our most hated enemies
According to hagel human civilization. Wow, he came over that all on his own, huh?
Because what a wise man. I think theo wants in on this because theo's got uh,
But i was gonna say what
Who who I don't want to I don't want to that's fine. I can jump out
Um, are you a tired man?
I am a tired man
Okay, I mean, you know, I just say this is completely up to you. Um
I was gonna say it's it's you you you've been uh trying to keep track of these streams in some way shape or form
Right. I was just gonna say so that people know that you've seen um
You'll see the meme videos that involve you and stuff
If we get you mean on this stream
Well, if I cover them in in in the third part you you'll end up seeing them
I think all i'm saying is that people probably would love to know that you uh
Get to see all that all the stuff. Yeah, I mean
Yeah, i've been lucidly what or
Lucidly loosely watching them. Uh, you could like send me a time stamp or whatever and i'll
Get to them later
Um, like what's their oh, yeah, definitely i'll let you know and um
I'm glad you got you got in for the quiz. It was good shit
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah
I'm, we're i'm, uh
Personally, i'm just really super happy to have you here and it was great to talk to you and that many are hope
Hope everything is uh, hope everything goes great
Yeah, it was it was nice coming on 50
Very good chat went wild when you showed up, buddy
I couldn't see it because he told me I wasn't allowed
Well go watch the replay. Yeah, you can check them out going. That's great
I suppose i'll have to do that. But yeah, i'm gonna jump off here. Got a bunch of stuff gotta do tomorrow
I adopted a cat or kitten yesterday
He's extremely high maintenance
Excellent
Of all of all the cats of all the like 80 cats at this animal shelter
I managed to pick the one that has a sinus infection. So
So I had to take him to the vet this morning and
He'll be fine. I just like
He's like really small and he can't breathe very well because of it and it's like
Keep going down to check on him like hey, you're not you're not dead yet, right? That'd be really depressing
Don't die
Yeah, i'm gonna take care of him
Got people trying to look at my car as a whole
Stupid piece of shit car soon
Yeah
Well, uh
Probably won't be on for a while because I gotta
Go do some stuff
But yeah, it was absolutely nice
Awesome, haven't you? Yeah for this actually good shit
Yeah, man, yeah
It was nice seeing you guys and i'll catch you some other time. Yeah, we'll catch you later
Love you wolfy
Yeah, whenever philosophers are mentioned girl theo happens to have all the information we could ever need about them, um,
I'll drop
Fucking capping me at 10 is the most annoying thing
Dun dun dun dun
Also, i'm gonna switch devices real quick because it's been artisanary
I wish I had all the information you could ever need. I don't know about that
Theo literally knows everything and if ever he doesn't come through on that he's lied to us. All right, everyone. Great
Oh shit
All right, cool
Oh, so theo, what do you know about fucking what was it 16th century for some shit?
What do you know about fucking it's here cool. I know bits and pieces. I can't say I have you strong knowledge
Have you got access to the the hortch together?
Uh
Good god, look at all these links. Uh, I'm gonna dig it up. Yeah
I'll try that
We'll draw it back and we'll get all the information we need
um
There is six of us and only five names. I don't know if this is because somebody is
I think it might be james more. I don't know
There's six now excellent
Let's draw it back and learn
beans
Throw back even
40 seconds credit opposing position but to understand the way that but to understand the way that
James your either microphone is your computer playback is
19th
Do you think did I boot them?
James your your volume
Uh, your we can hear your computer through your microphone
She can do the push to talk thinking that'd probably
fix
James I advise you to fix your shit things that you're going to switch devices. He might not be there
Yeah, he might have switched to his sound card
Games
Yeah, I will I I cannot mute him for everyone well, I was gonna say I can
I can give him the old boot arena. I guess
Oh, he perished he killed him
That tism bullshit I am so sorry bullshit
Another thing. Oh, yeah. Did you have anything you wanted to talk about with with this thing theo full story versus essay thing?
Uh, I guess all i'd say on that point is
Uh, the intent of an essay is fairly simply just to convey literal meaning. That's all it really wants to do
primarily
Soul ambition is convey convey. What was trying to say? Uh, there's a story that's you know a lot more going on
There's a lot more layers of uh, I guess meaning there's different kinds of meaning being used metaphorical poetic and such like
So, yeah, would you say that an essay is more objective?
I mean shit, maybe yeah because it's a lot less
Didn't know you were racist flowery. Uh, neither did I today. I found that learn something new
early
Positions but to understand the way that kora does it we have to talk about a 19th century
We have to do is george willhelm frederick hagel
You're right. Why the hell did he change the fucking format right at the end?
Wait, why why would you do this very important that you understand that his last name is everyone knows hagel
But we have to talk about hagel to understand kora
Yeah
Well, yeah er how many times do you specifically reference hagel in your works discussing kora?
I'm sure it's all of them
It's not really a necessity. I don't know. It sounds like a lie to me each of the intros like so
hagel
I was watching through those uh yokora videos. I was like, where's the hagel though?
Man, just get to the point. It was the main thing that was missing
Johan frederick bagel, why does jester I feel the need to do this?
What
I don't think i've ever responded positively to going on the internet watching a video essay and having someone try and rope in a philosopher
This is the thing. This is the what are the video essay trips?
We could actually have someone build a bingo card for like video essay trips
We could start running it whenever we go for a video essay
You'd obviously have to have a random reference to a philosopher out of fucking nowhere. Um
Words on the screen like almost appears at randomly strange pauses
Uh a lot of like so buzzwords, so I guess you could have these be separate things but like, um met a narrative
Um writing a pretentious book perhaps
Oh, yeah, like didn't just write like cite like, uh, some sort of
philosophy book or some shit at one point
I think so that sounds familiar in his I think this is an lj video. Uh,
This is the thing people probably oh obviously the soft essay voice, uh, the the crappy music like usually piano
often piano it could be like
Chill chill chill hopping hill hop is one of the ones that people have the low low five beats to study
artsy filter
As jay just said artsy filter. That's another one. Um artsy filter blur. Don't forget the blur
That's a that's a brown table original. I think
Like
There's a reason no one uses it
But uh, yeah, you could there's a we're gonna get a whole bunch of uh submissions for that I would imagine
But there's so many more so anybody who wants to make it take your time
Make it great and we'll totally consider using it in future. Whatever we hit any video essay because that should be funny
If we get we'll probably we might get a lot of really good ones
We might combine them into one super amazing bingo table
It'd be so awesome if you could download it for each efap
And if you could like download it as an app that I can like bring on screens
You know like same as like a calculator sort of thing
But I can just click and it'll like cross out the box for the relevant video card
Yeah, you could just bake it an image and like gimp or paint and then just
Mark it. Yeah
Um when people just quote someone else and act like the fact someone else has said it means it's true
Yeah, we had a lot of that with allen
Just like allen said this you're like, okay if allen said it, I don't know
Yeah, well me high cheek sent me high said this
It is it's very fitting that this is the episode. We have so many fucking throwback references like oh look how far we've come
so many fucking tisms
Who knows what tisms we will have tomorrow also known as well. Fuck. We'll be here tomorrow. Yep. Well, it is my tomorrow
I will already tomorrow. Oh, it is fucking already. It's 12 41. Jesus christ. It's already tomorrow. I have to poo
Okay
You know when nature calls is nothing you can it's because it's tomorrow you see
One poop per day for rags. You've got to get it in
Um, I I feel like it's a lot of fun to actually uh
Figure out what else there is to it. We've covered I think all of the main ones like the really memorable ones
Oh, I guess you could count the titles and the thumbnails. So like the title
What writers should learn from legend of kora? That's totally fucking click
Um
And then I guess there's a lot of different types of
Thumb i'm trying to think of clickbait thumbnails
I mean, I don't think just right does clickbait thumbnails you'd be right on that
Get hit with that. Uh
His thumbnails seem fine
Just then you get into the video and he brings in hagel and you get worried
Um, so, uh
I will uh, make sure wolf sees this if he doesn't see it through the stream, but uh
That would be the the wolf vision of the the one rags has already got us his um
Fp awesome. I'm now i'm now assuming I get one too or am I just not cool enough? I don't know
Okay, you're not adorable enough. I was about to say mask man. Do you make a scary mask man adorable?
Can you make a longman adorable? I don't know
Okay
Over eight hours mola. I know I know we're gonna we're gonna push it as far as it needs to for this video
It's nice and complete. This is to go even further beyond and who knows how long part three will be maybe 24 hours
You don't know you don't know
All right, let's see what hagel had to say
And he is known for arguing that good ideas can come from unexpected places
Including our most hated enemies. You really needed hagel to say that you can learn shit from bad people
Okay
Is he is he going for the is he going for hagel's dialectic
Is that what he's doing? Why would you even ask that question? Just write us another answer to that
I guess he's probably just did a scroll of a wikipedia page. That's my guess
I'm starting to think he has an idea of some kind and then he just googles it and then plus the word philosopher
He's like, oh shit. This guy said it neat. So there word must be true and I must be smart for finding it
According to hagel human civilization progresses by swinging from one extreme position to another until an equilibrium is reached
He uses this way of thinking in his writing style as a way of reaching the truth by exploring both sides of an idea
It's what's called the hagelian dialectic. Oh, there you go
Doesn't know what it is
Horror please don't wait. This is totally relevant to core. Okay
And it has three parts first. It presents a thesis an idea
Then it presents the opposite of that idea or the anti-thesis and no the antithesis. That's the cool way of saying that
Anti-thesis was a rugged game
antithesis the tension created by these two ideas leads to a new understanding or
Synthesis the important part to remember here is that unlike the essays you probably
I mean
I like that he's making fun of it
But it's kind of how his videos feel
just
If he's called just right
If memory serving that's very much a big oversimplification of the hagelian dialectic
But I guess because he wants to squeeze it into the video. So I don't want to give it too much time
It's somehow related to core. We're getting there i'm sure of it
Or is coming in a second necessary to understand it
Oh god
He wrote for school where you present an idea and the proof behind it in the hagelian dialectic there is a
Transformation of the original idea and that brings us back to the legend of horror. There we go
As the avatar core fights to
No, she doesn't but okay
I do just want to point out that's about one minutes 45 and yeah hagel said this goodbye
Oh, yeah, he'll kill he'll probably come back at the end. That's that's how they do this, right?
You'll be like and you'll say a bunch of shit about core and then go and that's really what hagel was trying to explore
in his book
Yeah, that seems like a fair guess the hagelian dialectic there is a transformation of the original idea
And that brings us back to the legend of core as the avatar core fights to maintain balance in the world
And each season she is confronted with an antagonist who disrupts this balance and tries to maintain
So I already go from what i've seen in eos videos. I don't know about that
She seems pretty disruptive
Uh, yeah
Yeah, out of all people I think horror has made the biggest dent
Not these guys
These guys are the innocent people
Yeah
An antagonist who is representative of a particular ideology equality who's gonna do this
My mind definitely wasn't really quality I can tell you that
And why is that to be a massive hypocrite
Well, that's because he's a bad guy, but you can't that's his point he may have been bad but his idea wasn't so bad
Right
Yeah, yeah, it was fake
I mean, I can't actually add to this. I haven't seen it, but i'm gonna go ahead and assume that you guys are right
Yeah, i'm gonna see where he's going with this
In other words kora is the thesis in this equation and they represent the antithesis
The critical part of all this however
Is that the legend of kora makes sure to give each of its villains some sort of ideological merit
They are not all pure mustache twirling evil people like the fire lord. You know, he was tremendously better. Well
Oh, I was gonna say that shots fired also, um
I like that he establishes kora's the thesis like does does she actually
Think about any of these issues in any larger aspect than that person's bad. Stop them
No, I mean if she's the thesis then isn't she against equality?
apparently
Yeah
Or is it two sides of the coin of equality or some shit like the the idea like if she has different ideas on equality to
the bad man
Not really 100 clear on that one
Pushing back and forth I guess the synthesis is when the show tries to tell us that kora's learned from
that particular season
Which she never really learned
Well, the funny thing is that this sounds pretty complicated
Evolving the the german philosopher plus the those four very large ideas
and and trying to combine it all and explain how she's the the thesis to their antithesis that leads to its synthesis like
seven and a half minutes
Bloody hell, mate, you have to crush this shit
Those are like deeper concepts, but all right
Yeah, if you could do to is representative of a particular ideology in other words kora is
You're so cute and they represent. Oh, yeah. Yeah the wolf one. Yeah, we need to screw it on
Can we put that up? Oh, yeah, I did
Okay, oh my gosh, it's so cute so cute
The antithesis the critical part of all this
However, is that the legend of kora makes sure to give each of its villains some sort of ideological merit
They are not all pure mustache twirling evil people like the fire lord is in the show's predecessor series the last airbender
Well vatu is since he is literally the manifestation of evil
But otherwise the show remembers the synthesis step
It synthesizes the good parts of their ideas into the world of the show when the show ends
Benders and non-benders are equals the spirit world is reconnected to the physical world
Hereditary monarchs are going away and there is peace and order all four villains can claim a victory in this regard
In other words the world of the story itself has a character arc in season four
Well, I know
How do you challenge that seems very reasonable to me?
I mean, they don't even they don't even explore most of this stuff like benders are just non-benders being equal
Not even remotely brought up
It's just paid a little service to hook one. Yeah
Again, I've got the problem at the start of season one and then never really show it
They show it once to show hey look
This is the problem of this particular arc and then completely ignore that that needs to be a recurrence thing for the villain
To have any kind of point
Yep, also. Yes. Uh, I was gonna say it's not happened as of right now
But uh, your mic's making some strange noises every once in a while. Yeah, is there any uh
Any possible way to try and plug and replay and fix that?
I think it's just me basically
I do want to bring up quickly. Remember when avatar didn't have the literal manifestation of evil in it
I remember
Yeah, who doesn't love the carpets
I remember when it was more than a christ and an antichrist
I think it's it's it's it's for kids. Okay, it's for kids
It wasn't made for the legend of anger. It wasn't that was that was made for adults because it was better
In order all four villains can claim a victory in this regard in other words the world of the story itself
I haven't even seen this and that seems like a very
It's just right. So we already know that this is like hmm
So in a way hitler won
Funny because kavira the villain of the fourth arc is just hitler
She just is
Well, he described her as the she's promoting fascism. Is that is that what's going on there?
I haven't seen she's basically just hitler in almost the precise same circumstances hitler during his rise to power
Oh, so it's justified incorrect. It's hilarious. How on the nose the comparison is
Director arc in season four toff basically gives kora a lecture on hegelian philosophy encouraging her really
No, I do not remember that. I don't remember that bit a galleon philosophy
I don't remember toff to be a character for that kind of thing either
Yeah
Was hagel in this universe the german philosophy pretty sure
Hey to learn from her adversaries
You ever consider maybe you could learn something from them. Oh, wow, that's pretty blatant
You can learn something from other people wow, that's hagelian philosophy not something that like toddlers know
Dude bad people never have any good ideas. All right
This is this is evil the evil
The problem was those guys were totally out of balance and they took their ideologies too far by analyzing radical price
That's a really baby way of looking at it
They had some good ideas but they did bad with them they took their ideas too far
He's like, what do you think this guy with the demon behind him and the glowy red eyes can teach you
How to fucking summon cool ass demons
absolute
Is there anything else to him? That just sounds like that's him start to finish
Kind of looks kind of just wants to destroy the world
And they took their ideologies. Well, you should destroy the world in moderation
By analyzing the merits and flaws of her antagonists kora is able to arrive at the
Overarching thesis of the show that the ends do not justify the means and that no one ideology has all the answers
This is what makes the show enlighten the centrist
She's an extreme centrist
The analogy has all the answers this is what makes the show a truly contested talking
You can see this strategy at play in a less political way when kora deals with post-traumatic stress disorder
Her anxieties are visually presented as a shadowy version of herself thesis antithesis only when she confronts and accepts her situation
Yep, what?
No, that's not how that works at all
Reaching antithe reaching
It's like I would say antagonistic force. Sure an antagonistic concept not
Antithesis. Oh, it starts with ant. It must be the same thing
Also, I don't like he's trying to get really abstract with it. I gotta use those callbacks, man
The kora post-traumatic stress stress disorder thing is kind of bullshit as well because they they kind of just suddenly decide
That consequences need to be a thing and that she needs to you know
have issues
And she gets out of it just as fast. Yeah
How does she get out of it
Don't the old avatars just show up and just give her all her shit back and say it's all
Oh, that was yeah
That shit's so funny
God
Bad man. No, it's not so much grammar bad, man
It's like just using the wrong word for the wrong concept
Was what I mean, he's totally reaching because he's trying to
In in very much the style of a video essayist trying to bring everything together
desperately
So it's like if it'd be like the philosopher I mentioned early because you're not going to get halfway through video realize
Oh wait, i'm grasping straws. I'd better restart my video and start to get fuck
No, just reach and make it all about a gaily in philosophy
The last thing we need now is this is a scene where she's jumping and he's like an attempt to use upward force in relation to
Gravity preventing her from doing so thesis antithesis
Like what he's like. Hey make sense and the directional motion synthesis. Here you go
Mission instead of avoiding it as she has been is she able to overcome this mental block synthesis?
I see so many stories where the opponent is irredeemably evil where the hero has nothing of substance to learn from them
And that makes for a stale story
So sorry, yeah, i'm sorry lord of the rings is a stale story
We were doing right there. Yeah. Sorry. Sorry
Hulken you need to study up on your higalian philosophy
Like legend of what did luke leon from the emperor exactly?
Is he gonna is he gonna argue that luke leon that you shouldn't be fully evil that the emperor?
They can all are just don't be evil don't be sarin
Don't be evil
Stale that's interesting. See this is the thing
It's like so you think a villain that can't have anything be learned from them like they're one-dimensional and straight up evil
They're just stale
Of all the shows to bring that out for uh kora doesn't get that because kora's villains
most of them
They kind of make like the book one's villain amon is the best example because he kind of yeah has a point
But they never show us that he actually does have a point
They just pay lip service to the fact that he does and then he doesn't have a point because he's a massive hypocrite and a complete liar
uh, and then they just throw him in the trash and
That's that
I
Is it just me or are her arms really fucking long?
Um
Yeah, a little bit I mean you judge he's a long freaking slender man over there
All these
Hegelian worldview the legend of kora is able to navigate complex ideas while also making its characters more interesting
But when handling all of these if you say that's true, you know
Without supporting it. It didn't handle them. It just presented them kind of
Softy ideas the writers definitely ran the risk of coming off as too preachy
You don't want to sound like jay walter weatherman from arrested development
That's why you always leave a note
Now kora is not without a few scenes that state the theme explicitly the top scene from earlier is an example of that
But it's yeah, it seems horrifically bloody obvious
Yeah, like talking to an adult like you're a four-year-old child, you know bad people aren't 100 bad
I mean fairness kora and her mentality. Oh, you're saying that she needed it that way because kora's not
Is she a little bit
She went to the spirit world once and got turned into a child because of how she was acting
I think she went to the spirit world on the short buzz
Yes
All right following. Oh
It's also brilliant at showing the superiority of one ideology over another through action
Especially in the third season finale. It does this by using a technique called poetic justice
Poetic justice if you needed more it's like bingo
How condescending as if no one's ever heard of poetic justice before
God damn it
Now kids this is called an essay
Is basically when the good guys are rewarded and the bad guys are punished but usually
The good guys are rewarded and the bad guys are punished is poetic justice
No, I don't know if that's I think that's just regular justice
That's just justice, yeah
No, no, he added that it's done in an ironic way
In some sort of ironic way, okay
So in some did he did he say that was an option or did he say that was just the way it is
Third season finale it does this by using a technique called poetic justice
Poetic justice is basically when the good guys are rewarded and the bad guys are punished
But usually the bad guy said but usually it's like he acts like it's not an essential part of it
I was about to say it's like
No, yeah, i'm trying to think of an easy analogy
Without the poetic part it's just justice
It's like people get what they deserve. It's a wet noodle, which is a noodle that usually is wet. You're like
uh
Missing a key component
Bad guys are punished in some sort of ironic way
So in season three kora is facing off against zahir and a small band of skilled vendors trying to take down all governments and institutions
His henchmen are each defeated when their own power is ironically turned against them
Which is a simple form of poetic justice, but zahir's final is that irony though?
Yeah, this is very complicated
I need to know the content by water is that irony
Ironic that the one thing he uses as a weapon was what defeated him?
Wow, it was ironic that uh, uh kylo was defeated by a sword like object
I guess now we're reincorporating we've taken it back
like degrees of irony I suppose because it'd be like if
I don't know man like this is this gets complicated because
I need to know what actually happens with those things like is
Is this what what gets done to those benders? Is it like a guy who uses fire gets killed by fire? Is that how simple it is?
Anyone know? Well, one of them shoots an explodey beam from her face and uh blows up her head
really
Yeah, I don't see how that's irony though
It's like it's not irony if a soldier goes into battle and gets shot by another soldier on the other side
That's not ironic. What if he shoots his guns? I don't think it's irony of his own grenade misfires or something
I don't know
Is it even with that even the irony?
No
It would depend on the setup wouldn't it?
Yeah, it would well, let's let's get some examples going. Would you say it's ironic to have been killed by an ambulance?
Fire
Oh, I mean both of our examples are kind of the same
Fires, but it is on fire itself
Yeah, I was gonna say getting run over by an ambulance and killed is like the purpose of the fucking vehicle
The thing that's supposed to save you ended up being the thing. Yeah based on how it's presented both of those can easily act as
irony
Yeah
Um, so it's not like ah, but I just so reflected your back back at you. That's irony
I was gonna say the person with explodey powers uses it and explodes her face. Is that really what happens?
Uh, she goes to fire the beam thingy from her forehead and someone covers her head in metal. Oh
and
Explodes in the results. Uh, yeah, I don't I don't know if I'd say that's like poetic justice at all
That's just wow rip
Yes, they killed you like
Yeah
If you're playing a video game and you throw a grenade and then you accidentally kill yourself with a friendly fire
Explosion, I don't know if that's ironic
It's just like whoops
It's tough subject i'll let him consider that
Or really consider it in a colloquial sense. No one's like ha ha dude. That was kind of ironic
It's ironically turned against them, which is a simple form of poetic justice
But zahir's final defeat is astounding in its multi-layered use of iron. It's multi-layered use of iron
Lay it on me just right go for it irony. It's not just one ironic reversal that does him in
It's five distinct reversals working in harmony one zahir is an airbender but is defeated by airbending. That's ironic
That's not ironic at all if I had a fucking gun and I was shot to death that is not an ironic death
I
Don't it sounds like he sucks at being an airbender
Yeah
Ironically he's so good at it even though he wasn't a bender previously he just became one magically
And then became the best
Death by loud soup
I'm looking through the definitions of irony doesn't really fit any of them
Well, he's got five examples though. The first one was kablooey
So let's see what else he's got is an airbender but is defeated by airbending
That's ironic too. The same event which gave him his powers gave power to the people who beat him three. See here. It's not ironic
How is that ironic?
How is that not ironic? How is that ironic? I don't understand
Coincidence maybe yeah
People confuse the two all the time when they're almost like the opposite in a lot of ways
Yes
So whatever event he calls to get him his powers it provided the powers to the people that eventually killed him
And he didn't even cause it. It was core that caught it. How was that? How was that irony?
Was that ironic? I also noticed that like I also noticed some for some reason
A bit of a tangent, but like um, I also noticed that like the british like don't entirely agree with
The same definition that irony is used by americans
It seems like we can't really agree on what irony even means. I don't really know why that is
There is an ongoing discussion about that shit
Yeah
ironic that the one word that's constantly in flux
To be discussed as to what exactly it means is ironic. Is that ironic? I don't know
By one of the definitions. Is that ironic?
Like for the for the example he uses if the event was that he created a magic portal or something
in order to specifically give
someone power
But then it was used by people against his will to give themselves power that they used to defeat him
That would be more ironic because there's an intention there
There's a specific sort of usage that was that he was going for
He had a purpose and a goal that was ultimately
Dare I say subverted in order to and something else happened contrary to what he wanted as a result. That'd be more closer to irony
but not just like
Not what he described
Yeah, the universe just grants him these powers because
The universe thinks that the world is out of balance
And so by balancing it it creates him a villain to unbalance it. Maybe that's ironic
I just I think the component he's missing is like the purpose being completely flipped
So like the idea that he was provided power by this thing
It's like so therefore the purpose is flipped by providing his enemies his powers
Like not necessarily the irony there would be is if he lost his power to that same source
Or if he was killed by that source that was attempting to empower him
Wouldn't that be the ironic thing?
To be killed by people who gained power from a thing you gained power from that just sounds like a barren square battle
I don't know
I don't think poetic justice necessitates any kind of ironic sense to it
Yes
Appropriate
Kind of yeah
I think someone said oh my god of all the ways to get killed on a battlefield you were shot and you're a person with a gun
How ironic it's like that's not ironic at all
Yeah, because that's what you'd expect oftentimes these soldiers would shoot at each other exactly
And I mean last it's the last ephab we were talking about. Uh, Hieronymus Bosch came up
and in his uh, three panel work of the
Garden of earthly delights you have
Purgatory heaven or you know uses a hell part
and in the hellscape that he painted people who committed certain sins were
Punished in ways that were appropriate. So like gluttons were consumed and then shat out and things like that
So that would that would be as people say that's ironic because like no, that's not it's not irony
In that sense the opposite
Trouble is I think we need a more uh
I think we need a more solid definition on what irony is before we can really continue on
I'll listen to his other examples. I think but they seem to be
Coincidental seems to be the running theme for his choice of uh, well his choices
Oh, yeah
Reversals working in harmony one Zaheer is an airbender but is defeated by airbending
That's ironic too. The same event which gave him his powers gave power to the people who beat him three
Zaheer's entire philosophy is about the need to disband institutions
But he's defeated by a group of characters just now learning to operate as a cohesive group
Wouldn't that just be a conclusion then it's like he wants to disband institutions and an institution defeats him
It would be ironic that he has to use an institution in order to abolish institutions that he thinks are evil
That would be irony
Senate I just mean like army x wishes to defeat army y but they are defeated by army y
It's like damn how ironic the one people they tried to stop beat them. It's like that's
I don't think that's ironic
I don't think it's ironic so much. It's it's just their ideals clashed and
Zaheer is lost
What I mean is weird to draw these like this I stay away from the fucking word. It just makes everything confusing anyway
Yes, you know if he just defined what he means by irony
That would be great, but he isn't so i'm just using the definitions of irony and it ain't checking
But he's defeated by a group of characters
Seven minutes time to define our terms
Just now learning to operate as a cohesive group four Zaheer's arc this season is about becoming unfettered by this world both
Metaphorically by giving up all worldly desires and literally by learning to fly in the end
He is torn out of the sky and arrested five. He only loses what wait what part of that's the irony so
okay, so
he wants to rid himself of like things that connect him to the world and
For some reason learning to fly means that he did that
He gets I guess because three of the bonds of gravity. I don't know
It seems recall. That's yeah, that's ultimate airbender power as you get to fly. Okay once you let go of all
And the irony is he's pulled from the sky
Okay
He's a weird man, that's not irony
This all seems very I could call a lot of this poetically just but I wouldn't call much of it ironic
Yeah fled the police in a vehicle
But how ironic that he had to be stopped and then pulled out of his vehicle to be arrested
The criminal was committing a crime how ironic that he was arrested
Yeah, all right
I don't understand this just right you're confusing me
To fly in the end. He is torn out of the sky and arrested five
He only loses because he chained kora up for a guy constantly talking about freedom. He's guilty
Context what no he lost because the airbender showed up and
Wipped his ass. Yeah, so what does he talk about? What does kora do after being chained up?
Well, she goes to the avatar state which is like they're super saiyan
and
See
He whips her around a bit
And then the airbender show up and right from out of the sky and that's it
Could it be argued that the whole reason the airbender showed up is because of what he did to kora?
Uh, yeah, yeah, that's true. They're there to say that's probably what he's referencing then because again, I haven't seen it
Yeah, maybe
um
So I guess he's saying how ironic that you tried to to I don't know chain up this person
And it eventually caused your downfall. I don't know if that's ironic either
It's like all you believe in freedom yet you in prison people
What a reach. Holy christ. He's like, okay
I I I think if you went to most people and said what do you think about freedom?
Oh freedom's good. It's like oh, so you think we should lock up criminals?
That'd be just right's kids in the boardings like they put milk of the cereal he's like how ironic
What do you mean dad it's like of all the things you put in your cereal it's milk
Shut the fuck up
Make a fucking youtube video
Cook a zucchini is like, ah, yes lemon pepper. How ironic it's ironic that the avatar expert
It's ironic that the avatar expert in our lineup as mike is dog shit for someone just
Yeah, it's not too bad it's making like little fart noises a lot whenever you speak
Whenever I speak always pretty much yeah, kind of it's pretty crackling
Yeah, I don't know what to do about that
Well, not to worry we are nearing his uh, the the the the thesis of his video I don't fucking
It's gonna be ironic whatever it is five. He only is reaching to bring it all together
You know, I'm gonna make a note for gedel as well. So like make five
Five random points that are not the least bit ironic
Thank you just right
Allowing me to have this wonderful moment in the future gedel. It's gonna be a long gedel
Stradimier says hey mauler check your twitter. He says sorry to rags in advance
Oh, no. Oh, no
You gotta draw me some fucking monstrosity checking tweet. Oh, i've got a couple of means i gotta go beautiful
All right, well I need to collect a few things so entertain people guys talk about tisms, I don't know
Oh, dude, that's awesome
Blackbird ink that shit's cool. I'm gonna show everybody in a second
Okay, I just saw the one he's talking about right
Excellent
Okay, good pop that who the hell is
Christ our audience is way too tall
It's unsettling in a
wait
Hi
Nearly done guys don't fret
Thanks for entertaining the audience while I was doing that if I stay fucking silent
I can't wait to see if number five is actually irony one out of five ain't bad, right? Right
Uh, wait, did he do five?
Wasn't five the the chain-up thing? Yeah, he's done his five. So yeah, so he's got to be wrapping it up soon
Bring it all together
Hegel hit oh boy
the giddiest scholar of the first goliath
I like dude. I'm not gonna get tired of saying big idiots like
Big idiots
How ironic that just right wanted to make a good video but actually made a bad video that's there you go
Rags I think you'll love this one. I'm sure I will that'll be magical. Oh, no
Oh
Rags don't don't be bad
Make me beautiful
What have you done?
Made him beautiful fucking handsome squidward levels of
Save that for later
That fucking face
That handsome squidward
It's too
And uh, yeah the other thing that I was said, how cool is this picture oh my god
Oh, oh shit, holy shit, that's really neat handsome you get drawn
Oh, I I like the I like that like the neck is like a spine and you've got the gloves on
Yeah, I like that idea. Like you're almost like a cyborg
Oh, maybe that's what the angle you should take is like you're a cyborg, you know
You're like a skeleton robot sort of thing
I mean i'm not against it. You're talking about the robot. That's kind of cool
Yo, it's fucking awesome. I'm trying to think of what I could do with it. Like I want to put it somewhere
That's really cool. Yeah, man. You could yeah, you crap that out. No problem. Make an icon anything
Yeah, like if if he can provide like um, like dng without the logo within the coat. There's all kinds of shit you could do
I mean, I don't yeah, i'll
Because I can this is ways to like say for example if I want to get rid of efap 50
I could probably do it with my limited knowledge of photoshop even but
Yeah, I don't know. I want to do something with that. I really like it. It's awesome. Thank you very much for that. It's uh,
Fucking cool as shit
And the handsome squidward rags, of course
I could just I love I could just pad back to it. It's like
Suddenly rags like hello
Make me beautiful
Oh, we're saving. Oh, jesus. Sorry just right for interrupting you you you were clearly teaching us about
Everything bring it all back
Remember the galleon dialectic. No
In the end he is torn out of the sky and arrested five
He only loses because he chained kora up for a guy constantly talking about freedom
He's guilty of imprisoning a lot of people when he first escapes. He doesn't just escape
Can you believe if you want to create a free society some people might end up in prison?
How ironic rags how ironic who can who wants a free society where people are held accountable
Sounds like a wrong man bad speaking over there
That sounds ironic and bolin later on in the season and only releases them so he can ensnare kora in a trap
Both times he fights kora. He does so while she is in chains the second time. She uses those chains against him
Oh, she sounds kind of op
Wow, if she didn't have those chains though
She probably would have done better the chains in which he bound her were used to defeat him. How ironic
Spoiler warning. She is kind of op was about what i'm trying to imply here is that she could have fucking beaten him regardless
Yeah
Is it did she need the chains? Did she need the chains?
Closest to irony there. Well, my point is like did
Okay, so like rags you have a fucking bazooka and I I yeah
Like I ensnare you with with let's just say a bunch of string and then you force the string down my mouth and I choke
On it. Is that an ironic death because I tried to you could just fucking shot me a
little bit like because
You pro you
What you gave me was intended to stop me
But it ended up being what I used to defeat you like you would have had to have gone out of your way to do
That like it's a bizarre way to kill me instead of just yeah, it's really odd, but it is
Sort of I would I would call that irony
I think
I'd agree is poetic
Yeah, it's certainly poetic. I I would say it's like it's irony that he was defeated
By the thing that he imposed on someone else in order to weaken them, but that ended up being
what
And i'm just curious that
Because again, I don't know the content but like are the chains on her even relevant
Does she need them to beat him or is it just a fucking it it doesn't it doesn't matter
Well, no, it totally matters because if it was intention was to lock it down with these things and they don't do fuck all to it
Well, okay
Like if I put a glove on your hand and I said that'll stop you from hurting me
Well, if he if he wanted to completely immobilize her, he probably would have just like wrapped her in like a coil
Why don't you just kill her?
I I don't know but it was clearly
He was trying to kill her see the whole thing with this is that she is slightly immobilized because she's been poisoned with
Iron, is it iron? Yeah, so he spat in his eyes in the poison
I get it irony
Oh, yeah, that's what you would do it right
You were going with that. Yeah, I like how you chained that one together
Oh
In a single scene, I wish he's stronger than him in dreams are dashed his idea
Ma
Racy
I find it interesting this poor man. Like he enjoys tlj on legend of kora. What are we gonna do for him?
Let me save him
thesis and antithesis
Okay
and teeth is thesis
In a single scene as he hears hopes and dreams are dashed his ideology is defeated and his hypocritical actions are turned
I don't know if his ideology is defeated
Ew, he put a sock in his mouth. That's like then the villain is humiliated
You know, he can just like use his tongue and push that out
No, it's this happens in a lot of content where people just for some reason hold on to it as if that's how it works
Like like he's biting down at it right now. They're like, yeah, you gotta
Yeah, so just use use your tongue and just push it out
This without anyone ever having to say something like this
And that's why you never lead an anarchist revolt
The legend of kora does not have the same kind of epic sweep that its predecessor series had nor is its supporting cast as iconic
But it is every bit as iconic that we can agree. I like that. He says that a lot of things
Well, I was gonna say he chose the word iconic rather than better always like he's like staying clear of that environment
As great as the last airbender just in a different way where that show was more about personal growth
The legend of kora highlights themes of global significance. It's a global significance
It presents them. It doesn't highlight them. It doesn't use them. It just puts them there
Much like how an essay will simply present ideas
Um
We're gonna say I cut you off for a second there what you're gonna say
I'm just saying he's right that it's definitely not about personal growth
My themes yeah, oh yeah, by the way bingo card big big big one for themes that's that that'll be
Several fucking free space
Of themes the show about testing your beliefs against other people and finding common ground and that's reinforced in every plot line of the show
More than anything else. The legend of kora makes us wonder just as hagel does what great ideas
There we go brought back in there's hagel we didn't forget about you, buddy
Over the uh common ground where hagel would have loved legend of kora beat the don't she beat the shit out of these people
Yeah, I mean essentially in season she doesn't agree with him at all I was gonna say does she learn
She just to adopt parts of their ideology in a positive way or something
Yeah, and then going forward she remembered. Oh, yeah, not that I remember I could use this
One person who took it too far, but I could use like a moderated reasonable version of it to solve this problem
tricked him
Like it paid lip service to the idea that it is doing all of these things and he took the bait my god
Oh god, yeah, how ironic that someone however focused on writing should be fooled
We need to start doing that whatever anything happens just go how ironic
How ironic that the person who should be teaching us about what good writing is is so easily fooled by terrible writing fooled by an ancient
Perhaps you should have paid attention yourself
Essential to understanding this
The video wouldn't have worked without the first couple of minutes for hagel more than anything else
Cora makes us wonder just as hagel does what great ideas might be lost if we don't open ourselves up to change
No punch nazis
I don't understand
Game informer like the subscribe thing is changing punches all her villains
These are the thoughts that I didn't use but now I am
Look squeeze me just right. I will absolutely subscribe if you cover more of big ideas. I think that he can really improve your channel
The giddiest is wise man
I wonder what happens if I take that subscribe there and I flip it upside down just like let me go to paint and do
That'd be ironic
uh
okay, so
um
Um, yeah, I got nothing
I was gonna say so there's a couple things I got to look through with my discord
I got to post a bunch of extra memes get things in order. We we're going to be coming right back for part three
Of the 24 hour efap. This is this is reaching the end of part two
I'm gonna i'm gonna let it push to nine hours though. So we got
We have three minutes to talk. So, um, I don't know guys. What's what's gay? How's things going?
It just says what's gay. You know, I I said, hey, hey, what is wrong with you? Oh, what's that here?
Okay
What is gay what is gay that's dude no one's made an essay about that I might have accidentally
Well, I was gonna say either way, um
I think the next one we're just gonna do meme videos all in a row and so i'll try and get a
A cast for that as in like a selection of people that would actually have a fucking clue of what's happening. I believe
Metal will be available. He has not jumped on yet
And um
Possibly j if he's around possibly even alex making a return and fringy who even knows we still got a meaner
I mean, I still have like eight fucking hours
Eight fucking hours and that's if we actually
Oh ask the gay orphan question
What's the gay question
Ah, why are you why are you gay?
Why are you gay? Why are you asking? Why are you running? Why do you ask a gay question?
Why are they all gay while I get my beverage?
um, but yeah
I think we'll do
videos when we're saying and then i'm gonna probably at least do a half or a whole bunch of super chats it'll make sense to
do it and uh
Then cover who knows what I actually this this did not go the way I expected and what I mean by that is
We have covered six videos in total. I thought we were going to get through so many more than that and we didn't
Six videos in fucking
17 hours
What the hell is that a record or not? That's good right
I was gonna say that probably is actually in line with how efap typically goes. I don't know why i'm complaining
Don't we normally care cover like two?
Yeah
Yeah, yeah
Two two two plus super chats typically like around normal efap. I think sometimes we only do the one
I remember the when theo was supposed to come on to cover
uh
Just right subjectivity thing
Eve again
We couldn't even get through extra credits without saying, you know, we're gonna have to stop it there
That was that was all theos fault and stop talking. Yeah
It's all me. I talk too much in efap, you see
Mm-hmm
And we you know, we we we try to talk to him about it. I know that the fans are very upset about it
What can we do?
Oh, you know what? It might have been one more video. I didn't realize we did cover the tonaled video
I'm trying to find my records of it all i'm supposed to keep all this in tracking
Just want to cover the holy trinity from down the thrust of that fucking video that's gonna
But yeah, uh, I guess with that like I said, I will I will try and end it around both there and um
We will come back in around about probably 10 minutes. I would like to pee
But you know, it's not important compared to getting the memes and in their in their positions. Um
So tradec I said, uh, we are gonna come back to you. Don't worry. Thank you for tuning in this far
Um, is does anyone else want to say anything before we go off lines?
Stay tuned
Yeah, there's a disappointing to me
I'll come up with anything else. Uh, yeah, so that's about it. I've delayed enough to reach nine hours. Excellent
We shall see you soon. Excellent
Doodlebip curio
