It's good that, I guess, it's good that we're not live yet, so I can explain to you, Mel,
I think you have a drinking problem, but it's very important that we discuss this privately,
but you need help.
You need to calm the fuck down with the alcohol.
I know how a drinking problem looks like.
My dad has one.
You know how it looked like.
I think you're drunk.
Maybe people don't think it'd be like that, but it do.
It's a big trutru right there, but...
No you.
Ba-dum-bum-ba-dum-bum!
Coopie in my bottle, da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da.
Oh, for a second, I pulled up like a watch together, and I was like, oh my god, I've
got something on screen that I've never seen before, which is rare.
I miss being surprised by watch together there, I said it.
I know, right?
Ah!
In the video that's been going around a lot, where basically someone edited it, so at
the end of end game Thanos snaps, and it works, and everyone dies, and he goes to credits.
Basically like, pretty depressing end, where they just lose again.
I died, but then I came back.
Hello everyone, for the super late and inappropriately timed effort.
We had to nourish ourselves.
We did.
After the intellectual nourishment that we received moments ago, we had to get physical
nourishment.
I had to get drunk.
Mm-hmm.
In whatever ways we saw appropriate.
We had to consume things.
So I guess we could open with, I'm just going to show some Beiberys, Moomly Dooms, while
we, you know, collab-cab-cab-cab-bab-late.
I think I posted this one to you guys already, but it's still funny.
We apex-o-loo.
It's like a movie poster or something.
No, no, no, it means man.
It means man.
Apex man.
Apex man.
That's what.
I've got some mole memes right here.
Why are you gay?
Why are you gay?
I fucking love that clip in general.
I'm not gay.
You're gay.
I'm not gay.
Someone posted this.
I don't think it's related to anything in the episode, but I thought it was funny anyway.
Yeah, that was just funny, and the effect memes, so that's great.
I like it.
An alternate version of me.
Is it an alternate version of you?
Or is it the version?
We will never know.
Love it.
You will.
A good Tywin quote that's been changed a little bit.
Gay doesn't answer the pinnies on the street.
Oh shit.
I guess it's just a part of efab lore now that Tywin is raging over sexual.
At the burning question, what makes a good red?
Of course.
What makes a good red?
The rats holding art.
And then Bayowin jumped in on what we discussed last stream.
Very important topics.
Lots of deep meaning.
I happen to think that this is a wonderful rendition of the truth of the matter.
Oh, Luke, he's even lost the hat and everything.
Really well drawn soup looks good.
The whole thing looks great.
Soup rise.
This is the degree of our memes people.
I don't know how to explain it, but Darth Vader had to throw soup on somebody.
It looks just like the soup bullshit.
No hand and now he's got soup burned.
See, but that soup bowl actually looks like it would stand a lot better than the one that
we saw it.
You need to like.
You use the force to keep it upright.
Oh, it's constant training.
I love it.
It's Jedi soup.
It teaches you that even when you think that you're safe and you don't have to worry about
things like when you're eating soup, you still have to make sure that your force powers are
always, you know, attuned to your surroundings.
I'm assuming he's keeping the bowl on Luke's face with the force.
Right now as well.
He's not letting it fall.
When you're a Jedi, no meals are had.
This is live video.
This is not a screenshot.
You keeping all the noodles in the watery elements in place.
It's very impressive.
More impressive noodles.
Noodles.
Noodles.
Noodle my noodle.
So yeah, funnily enough, the video that we're gunning for today or well, possibly more than
one, depending on how long we go.
I looked at it like I want to say two years ago, so it feels like it feels like a whole
thing.
But I know that metal rags and J-Won would have not seen this.
And yet all of you have seen the Last Jedi, yes?
You're all big fans of the movie from what I understand.
Sure.
Raging a whore for that movie.
Oh, nice.
That's true fandom.
I like to see it.
We've got a new watch together.
You can jump in right there.
I was about to say it's almost weird if someone's watching this in like the backlog, they'd
be like, how come you didn't do an intro this time?
It's like, well, this is technically a part two for the previous one.
You're supposed to watch them together.
If you didn't watch them eight hours straight together, assuming this is four hours, then
you've done it wrong.
You're a bad person.
We don't make the rules here in E-FAT.
No, I'm just reading them off.
It was set long before I had any control of them.
Ooh, CJ's in chat.
Hello there.
I actually watched his video while I was.
CJ, why are you gay?
Why are you gay?
Why are you gay?
Why do you keep watching really bad movies about teenagers trying to fold love and shit?
I think that I think it's because CJ is a teenager who's desperate to fall in love himself.
And so he searches through all of these videos to try and find the one.
It was funny.
He mentions in this video, he's like, yeah, for some reason YouTube really likes me doing
these videos.
And I was just like, why?
What a strange thing to do.
But you know what?
Whatever works, buddy.
Not even YouTube will defend these films.
Oh, this will be, what are you doing up this late, CJ?
It's fucking 12 30 a.m.
No one stays up late on a Friday night.
Oh, okay.
How are you supposed to impress the ladies or the guys, if you're like Taiwan, if you're
always up late and you're making yourself tired?
Yeah, I was going to say, I can actually figure out your problem there, CJ.
Not getting out there, staying up too late, playing video games, the whole thing.
Also because you're gay.
Whoa.
Oh.
I don't think that.
Okay, we're all watching a music video, right?
Oh, ignore that.
Wait.
That's like the default.
Does CJ have any illegitimate shit?
Oh, we should ask him the gay question, I guess.
CJ, stop using your face.
Use your dog.
Use your dog.
Oh yeah, you didn't use the dog at all in your latest videos, CJ.
I'm betrayed.
Yeah, I'm, yeah.
Just spoil the book they're reading and I'm in there.
Um, but yeah, so as the title has already implied.
Why the Last Jedi is a love letter to Star Wars fans.
I don't have a title yet.
Yeah, it's still beat stakes.
I have not pulled up yet.
You fucking patientless, flimflammeries.
It's not that I'm not patient, I'm just telling you what I see.
Why are you, why are you jumping on my asshole?
Because it's going to ask you a question.
Why are you leaping onto my anus?
It's going to ask you a really important question that only you can answer.
Yes.
Uh-huh.
What is it?
I enjoy answering questions.
Would any of you be interested in having CJ come on for this video?
Um.
I don't care.
Drag takes, I mean, why not?
It's a, it's a prep for the fucking 24 hour.
We actually did two Ephraim's in a row with nearly, uh, no, it wasn't six.
It was five, I think.
I don't see why not.
I kind of feel like if we just let anyone on, then it's sort of, it's sort of kind
of like by implication devalues the values of being a guest on the app.
I mean, past guests are allowed on.
Remember when we had an app event on to just come on and explain an anime to us?
Yeah, but at one point it was legal to own slaves.
What?
I don't know.
What the fuck?
It's, it's prep.
Okay.
We're going to have a whole horrible.
If CJ is gay, then he is going to have to learn a lot about prep.
So I assume.
He cuts out.
What did you say?
A lot about what?
Prep work.
You think you're just going to let a guy fuck you in the ass?
Just like that?
Maybe.
Well, there you go.
No, no, there's a bit of, there's a process.
Hello.
Why are you gay?
He's using the dog face.
Are you happy now, Rags?
Good.
I'm fucking happy.
Yeah, actually.
Well, I'm glad that I can satisfy you in at least one way practice.
I'm I'm a bit of a size queen and I have had a wide experience of partners.
So it's okay.
I understand.
We can't all that is that's valuable information to have can't all be fucked.
All right.
CJ, if you if you look to the group, you can see an invite to a watch together.
Oh, if you click that, it'll take you to a mystical world.
Nowhere not.
Steaks is also the name of one of my favorite sexual positions, which is another thing you'll
have to learn if you're going to find love in teenage films in terms of sexual positions.
Is it better or worse than Mexican Halloween?
Oh, my goodness.
That is it's so recent, yet already such a deep lore.
Yeah, so I'm going to have to upload it because nobody knows what we're talking Mexican Halloween
was fucking magical.
I love the people, but I need you to understand that your Halloween's are just just awful.
It is.
We have we have hidden law and this time it's not on Jay's channel.
It is on Metal's channel.
It will be released.
Do not panic.
Give me a few years.
That's all I need.
I'll get there.
Nobody knows that you exist, metal.
It's true.
You have a very small audience.
In fact, I'm not even sure he's real.
Like it could just be someone I'm imagining a voice in your head of Christmas past in
my own head.
Why does nobody talk about the ghost of Christmas future?
Because it sucks.
Because he is gay.
Why is he gay?
Why are you gay?
So I do.
I do have to apologize.
The video we're watching is made by Bob Chipman.
I'm sorry.
Oh, no.
No.
What are we watching?
Like three times already.
This is this is smaller.
This is this is 13 minutes long.
So we're going to be here for about seven hours or this goes on for 13 minutes.
We don't we never we've we've never made a rule.
We have to watch the whole thing.
We've never made a rule where we have to watch the whole thing.
So don't panic.
Oh, my God.
Well, I thought you were a big fan of them.
What the fuck?
I know.
I like eugenics.
Not Bob Chipman.
No, he's a terrible spokesperson.
Bob Chipman gave eugenics about.
He ruined it.
The Nazis were a better reputation to eugenics than Bob Chipman.
The Nazis would be ashamed of him.
They would be ashamed or upset with his.
Just extra Uber mensch.
And Bob Chipman is the the opposite of that.
Oh, it's the opposite of Uber winter.
And there are any Nazis in the chat, which I know there are because we're right here.
No.
Yeah.
I need you.
I need to know what the opposite is.
And you can't say Jew because that's racist.
Are we all are we all Nazis, though, by association?
Possibly.
Because we all know Mahler.
Yes.
Yeah.
The Uber Jew, as I've called them.
But I don't say that, nor do I support it.
In fact, I disavow it.
I've just heard that from people.
All right.
The challenge will be, how far can we get before taking our first pause?
Is everyone excited?
I guess.
I have four points.
And a little scared.
Oh, OK.
I know who this guy is now.
Oh, fuck.
Oh, God, no.
Resist the pause.
God, no.
That's kind of creepy.
OK.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
That was like a Derek Savage intro.
Oh, no.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
It's funny how that intro has always been so bad to me.
We've been watching a bunch of people at the same time.
It's like, God, it is funny bad, isn't it?
Oh, my God.
I need this when we stream.
Just in metal, we trust.
It's fucking amazing.
It's like the Illuminati eye on the top of the pyramid.
I love it as well.
Just, you know, the idea of people like, oh, you know, I like the last
day.
Last day isn't so bad.
Okay, but taking the stats. It's a love letter to Star Wars fives like oh
Oh, I think well what two of us didn't yes some of us didn't get the fucking memo
Taking right now I
Don't know man. It seems
Like it's a paradoxical statement. That's that's how I look at it
It seems like an inaccurate thing to say
But we're probably wrong. He's a very intelligent man. We're gonna break it down
Can I can I just ask first of all is this video a joke? No
However, this video is very see
he
Think Bob's never made a joke. He says a lot of stupid shit, but uh
You might assume that it is a joke because you might be a reasonable thing
But Bob shipment is more than we will ever be nor could ever imagine like and ironically now
How do people we covered on efab where people are obviously a troll? It's like guys these people exist
People really are real
These people are out there like people like rational Republican or whatever his name is
He is those people are real. Yeah, someone showed me his channel earlier and I was like, I
Know that they seem to want to capitalize on the whole market of crazy insane people in society
But SJWs are actually not the only crazy people out there. Nope. There's a whole bunch of crazies
Oh, yes, did you know CJ that Tywin Lannister is a hot flaming gay
Apex homo apex homo. I
Did not know that I'd be intrigued to see his reasoning as to why oh it would you just watch the last D?
He nailed it. We were convinced very much so yeah
He's so fucking gay. Holy shit. It's three now. I'm concerned that Game of Thrones has a vicious
If has any giant dwarves
What is this music
Okay, we get it
Recall that the specific mythological figure Luke Skywalker resembles most oh my god
He just fucking he's like a drag racer I was gonna say it's people who've never seen him before
Isn't this great? Oh my goodness. I know it brings me back to the days. I too discovered the wonders of Bob Chippman
Oh, it's a nightmare
He's slow we we slow totaled down but really I was gonna say we might
The only way we're gonna get through it is if we slow him because we don't fucking understand what he said the last time
We don't know what it means. We'll get through really quick. You remember when we covered him in like efap
Seven or eight or whatever we had to like keep replaying him over and over again
I don't remember there for that. It was me smud and wolf. I think wolf died. I can't remember if you were there
Yeah, we'll had to leave you fucking his brain melted like
Bob is
Bob is the apex
Human do your best to not only understand his point but constructs how you are actually a disagreement with him before he's made another
seven points
He is he is gala personified
Recall that the specific mythological figure Luke Skywalker resembles most largely by design is King Arthur, you know common boy gets a special sword
I don't know if I agree with that Luke Skywalker is King Arthur, right?
It's just the archetypal hero's journey. Yeah, but you know how it works
It's like he is him in every way other than the ways he's not and you're like, right
So why even mention he is he is a male. He is a fictional character. There was a sword
He wears a robe an old man gave him advice does something. Well, I I don't know incest is sort of a crossover. I
Don't disagree with that
Because for the well anyone who knows the Arthurian lies, yeah, yeah, yeah finds out ease of noble lineage
Once again, I get not liking it. Oh my
I
Don't actually know what he's saying cuz he's already blown past at all
I'd actually have to rewind for I was gonna say with I hate Bob videos. They're so fucking hard to follow
I'm gonna lower. That's why he understands that his points are terrible. So he just tries to
That he just tries to dazzle you with bullshit. Why would you use your own face for reaction shots?
Very busy like it's what you have when you have his face. I see day who yeah
Who would have such a good?
You know a good icon that so green stands out so well
And you're known so you're known for it and it looks great and then you start putting your face and shit and you're like
Oh what happened to the thing you do get that you betrayed rags, right CJ. I
Can live it up. No, I don't think you can you say that now but
You know in 15 minutes
I was gonna say
I'm talking about screenshots to the dick this degree
he like black and whites the tops himself out does the
Specific emoticon make fun that he was and he was so fucking proud of that too when he made that he got the right picture
Graded out cropped it. He was so fucking proud of himself
but ultimately
It is his face and therefore it is a hideous thing. Oh, wow
You say it's more than Titanically ugly or below or above. Oh
my goodness, I would say I
Wouldn't say indescribably ugly. I
would say oh
My goodness, I would say that
He has
He is a chasm of ugly
Just blackness so you don't know how deep it goes
It's almost like Schrodinger's ugly, but because it could be just a little ugly, but it could be really ugly
We've made the mistake of thinking oh she'd be ugly and pretty the same time
No, no, no ugly and super ugly. No, like you don't actually you can't really fathom how ugly he actually singularity of ugly
We're talking. Yeah, I mean we're in imagine a point in space with
infinite ugly
But zero mass. Well, no because he is very he's a very large person because there is scientific on this dream. Oh, man
I'm trying to describe the depths of his ugliness. It is a difficult thing. Let's keep going to the words will come to me
Common boy gets a special sword meets a wizard finds out ease of noble lineage. All right, I think I got I think I got
How did things end up for King I think that Bob Chipman looks like the north end of southbound
What
Which park if he's okay, no you cow on the second half well listen, okay fine. I'll say it louder so that everybody
Can understand it if I remember Bob Chipman looks like the north end of a southbound warthog
Hmm go here. All right. Okay. All right. That's that's what I got. I
Is not a statically pleasing I put down agreements with them
So, yes, I have slowed it down now once what's this point that he's making about King Arthur
I don't know do we can we skip that one?
We just gonna have to this patreon link on this all this fucking time
Yes, there's a part of me who legitimately kind of wants to know what his point about King Arthur is
But then there's a part of me. That's like it's probably terrible. All right, fine. We're going back. We're doing this
We're doing this. He said that it was like King Arthur. Let's see what else he says. It's fine. There's enough gin in the house
Oh
Recall that the specific mythological figure Luke Skywalker resembles most largely by design
Oh, it's King Arthur, you know common boy gets a special sword meets a wizard finds out he's a noble lineage
This this isn't news to anyone right and well, is it how did things end up for King Arthur again?
Well, well generally when th white wrote the once and future King he didn't
He didn't really call it that for no reasons
Like the idea is that he will be king again
Like he Arthur's not dead so much as he was whisked away to
Avalon
In that he'll come back at one time
Is his point that the bad thing happens to King Arthur after I guess he's on standby in a way
Like the legend of King Arthur is ultimately a tragedy
But I guess what happened to Luke they turned into a tragedy but that wasn't
That was something that they decided to do after Luke's character had already been created by George Lucas
I mean Ryan Johnson was the one who decided. Oh, yeah, Luke's gonna be like a tragic character
Which is why so many people hated it because of what was established previously in the original movies
All of you guys seeing him on your screen right now
You know, yep, that's not a
He's not a healthy man and see that see that face makes me think that he's making this point as a joke
But but I don't know
No, that's that's a
well, you just aren't big-brained like a movie Bob is if you had a
Brain that could make the Kessel run in 4.2 parsecs like you can't those eyes
Just look into this picture. It's really making me want to shave
Fairly often cuz you know, I want to look good
I mean
People can pull off beards rags some people can yeah, he makes me want to pull out my beard
Melt my face off so now see all those pores
I
Yet not liking it
But this idea that it doesn't fit with the franchise or it doesn't make sense in the narrative
Yeah, that's a lot harder to justify in my opinion. However that having your wrong knowledge
I do think there's another level of resentment and rejection spinning out of this
That's coming more from a place of misreading what people think the story is saying in the film
You see a lot of the readings amusing story than for and against the Last Jedi frame
The film is a kind of anti-nostalgia or anti-dramatic
Oh Jesus, why would so many people think that why would so many people think that?
Right. Yeah, so I guess he's saying that's a misread if you think of The Last Jedi as essentially being like hey
All that posh shit kill it, you know, like they say in the movie
That's a misread a lot of people actually said that
The film does have him say that but the film proves Kylo wrong. I was like, does it?
I don't even I just
Luke doesn't you know people say like Luke saved the day and stuff
When it didn't seem to be that Luke actually understood what the fuck was even happening with the rebels in the place or how they could
Even escape. I don't know
It is
yeah, I
think this guy I think he's one of the people who is going to like Star Wars no matter what and
He will attempt to justify it in whatever way he popped. Also. Yeah, I am. Sorry about these pauses
But he chose to put this on his video. Okay, like what am I supposed to do?
Mainly based around Kylo Ren's monologue up killing the past for good or ill the new trilogy is all in
On the idea of its story as a meta narrative about the new Disney owned Lucasfilm inheriting Star Wars legacy and what is it?
It's very clever. You see metanarrative
That's Bob fear it's really tough to decipher like a point and then respond to it
This is the guy by the way that Patrick Willem said is like the only traditional reviewer on YouTube
That's one of them. I don't get what the
Why Patrick Willems videos are so fucking garbage. Yes, that's that's a lofty recommendation there. Mm-hmm
We all really like Patrick Willems here. I wanted to make that clear. He makes fantastic content. Mm-hmm help build my channel. So
You help build a fat much much like how Star Wars the Last Jedi kick-started so many careers with how fucking terrible
Thank You Patrick
Thank You Patrick if you weren't so terrible then some of us might not be where we are today
You did humanity a good
Jedi's overall arc seems to be very much about setting up the starting point of a major status quo shakeup
That's definitely what the final shot with the kid is about and it feels like the logical place Disney would want to take the brand
Long-term, it just but that's where we are here. We're at that point. Why did you stop there?
Well, why comes I can't see anything disturbing. I just see a ring. It's fine. It's just a ring. Well, I don't
Oh god, it's like pussy lips had a
All right, well either way
See I now see Mark Hamill. Oh, yes, okay. Let's draw it back. Oh, yeah
Get everyone to 131 to take the break and see Bob. It just frees up a lot of possibilities. It makes sense
No, there we go. So I was gonna say he said it the the kid with the broom
Represents a big status quo shakeups like isn't the kid with the broom just saying oh, yeah
There's a bunch of force people out there who are gonna do stuff at some point and he says that prequels never
I was gonna say like as if that wasn't the case. Anyway, we already knew that that was the case that there's people with a full
they can all because
as far as I can tell anybody in the Star Wars universe can learn to use the force and then
Some of them have like better proficiency based on bloodlines that have better access
I don't know some kind of that seems to be how it was supposed to work
And then Ray came along and kind of yes, I don't know changed that good to great
But yeah, you know kid with a broom fits in with what we understand anyway as far as I know
It's not like a status quo chain
What I feel is happening as well is a lot of people are
extrapolating out from this that the Last Jedi wants to erase everything that Star Wars used to be and
Well, there's an argument for that
Depending on who you talk to it about what they have erased a couple things
Like killing Luke killing Han
Fucking up hyperdrive
Um
There's a lot of explanations of the force and the universe and the world building
previous characters
Reversal of arcs it is like making the victory at the end of the OT. Absolutely fucking pointless
It just it does give a lot of people the impression that Disney really hates Star Wars
We have that
And shit all over the mythos in this specific case
Somehow say that Luke was never great and that the Jedi suck in order to hold up the new paradigm
Luke was never great. I mean Luke himself says like the Jedi always sucked or whatever and
His logic in the film is so bad
It's terrible that the Jedi allowed Darth Sidious to rise so we should never let the Jedi be a thing again
It seems like it's still worth having them around. I don't know. That's just my opinion
It's my opinion something doesn't have a perfect record. So we should just get rid of it
I don't know feels like that's a really dumb thing to say like Luke, but the bad guys are in power
It's like yeah. Well the good guys allowed the bad guys to exist. So
So maybe we should just let I guess the bad guys won fair and square if we kill a little good guys
There won't be any bad guys because they're already bad in comparison to good people
You
Know what Alderaan, you know what I call Alderaan a decent start. Yeah a
necessary loss a lateral damage
Gay time hit the planet behind Alderaan got in the way, you know planets
I was just it was just Jerry fiddling with the buttons and they're like, oh no, no, no. Well
Look at Jerry you have to break a few eggs to make an arm with Jerry
I'm the nuke characters as being superior and I don't
Actually see that at all. In fact, I'd argue that the entire ray and you're gonna love Star Wars
No matter what didn't agree less than a very deliberate earnest and sincere love letter to the idea of fandom and Star Wars fans in
particular
That's why the fandom loved it so much. That's why it just really resonated with fan
Yeah, how could you it's a weird point to make it's like weird we're celebrating fandom and somehow half the fans hate us
I don't know what happened
We all good, okay, then let's talk about Ray from nowhere for a minute firstly just so we're all on the same page
Just as the meta narrative of the new trilogy
What does he have in Bob we trust on the bottom right and on his fucking patreon?
Stop it. Look how ugly this is. Why is it why is it patreon movie Bob one?
Because film Robert beat
What's with the
Really awful frame the gold foil the random lights different color. You don't need any of this
No, you need all of it and more Molly
It's like in the rest the resolution is so stretched out like fix your fucking resolution
It's so yeah
I'm playing around with UI stuff because I I went someplace and I bought a little UI pack
But you can get those like cheap and so I was fiddling just to kind of learn how UI stuff works
And I learned that you don't want it if you want to still stretch something out
You just you copy the segments and then you paste it on to the end because so it creates a continuous high resolution line
It's is the basic shit and Bob's been doing this for how many decades now?
Yeah, that's the thing. He's been doing this for a long fucking time and his formats. That's why he's so huge
I get it. Oh
No, I know. Yeah, I mean, yeah, he's gargantuan
But oh, I mean like I mean, do you mean mentally gargantuan that he is a big brain?
Oh, he is a Hugh. He is a galaxy brain
Look at this shit in chat. Jimmy Parker make videos instead of doing live streams. I haven't done a live stream in like two weeks
I don't do one
went a lot
Oh, I'm finished I was on metal stream the other day, I guess that's three me too. No one knows that's that's deep lore
That's like where else
Videos are being worked on I assure you just because they're not released doesn't mean I'm not working on
Well, unless I'm streaming because then you'll know that I'm not working on just so we're all on the same page
Kathleen Kennedy's incarnation of Lucasfilm inheriting and trying to carry forward Star Wars as a preeminent modern pop mythology in the Western
Consciousness in terms of characters and on-screen action
That story has mainly been told through the non Jedi and or force using characters
Hence the first order and the resistance both being relatively new power structures. What about the original series?
Original series was there was only like three Jedi in that one
Oh how hard it was he died, you know respond to movie Bob points cuz it's like it'll bleeds
and like I'm
He says so much unnecessary language all of his languages. There's a run-on sentences. They're like what what? Oh, oh
It's just so much there and you're like this isn't a point or it doesn't contribute to a point
It's just extras on top. It's just sprinkles
You're sprinkling everything on top of these extra things really got to like focus with your eyes and ears, right?
Really good. I already forgot what he said exactly
mythology in the Western
Consciousness in terms of characters and on-screen action that story has mainly been told through the non Jedi and or force using
Characters hence the first order and the resistance both being relatively new power structures both trying to maintain and expand the legacies of the Empire
And the rebellion respectively, but it's also telling an adjacent meta narrative about Star Wars fans experience with
Telling an adjacent metanarrative about style. It's it's obvious
It's an adjacent metanarrative. It feels like okay. So a movie bought videos like Christmas lights
You're like right. We gotta untangle this shit for ages and then you finally go case
So the first part he said metanarrative was adjacent to the souls fan base. What do you think of that guys? It's like oh fucking no
It's just a movie about space wizards for children. Oh
Yeah, that's right. It's so weird that you'll have Patrick Willems say that which is in huge direct opposition to this
Which is the just the opposite. It's
That's right. It's so mundane and empty. Yeah, but I guess movie Bob thinks it's the most meaningful thing
Since ever well, honestly the way it works Patrick Willems is if you draw something out of it
That's in favor with his position that it be it is a good film
Like if you draw something super deep and you reference philosophers and all this other shit to do with styles
You probably like yeah, that's good shit
But if you do it in reverse and reference how poorly made it is he'd be like, whoa the fucking movie about space was his guy
Yeah, it's meant for children Bob Bob. It's been your children
child I read
child I ran I
Like all the reading and carrying out that same legacy
Justice Luke Vader Obi-Wan and the Emperor and Yoda all had their own private Jedi versus Sith story playing out within but very much
Apart from the bigger scale military conflicts that the non-force users were aged in in the original trilogy here
The Star Wars fandom metaphors are all contained within the storyline that jointly
Encapsulates Rey and Kylo Ren to put it bluntly the two of them are both in universe
metaphorical stand-ins
For Star Wars fans. What? Okay, we got that's that's his point. Okay, we got there
Three minutes to fucking make it
Kylo and Rey represent two types of Star Wars fans
Okay, the rest of the good ones and a bad one. Well, yes, why all those other words?
Because how could you have understood any of that without the other words?
How can Bob tell you how fucking smart and big-brained he is if he just tells you what he means?
No, no, you're not fucking smart or big brand if you use fancy words. That's just what an idiot would say
Yeah, I was gonna say that sounds like the kind of thing I met a narrative adjacent to a gay Tywin Lannister would say
This is why you have you this is why you're not film Robert
How many how many YouTube reviews of you made Bell zero, yeah, how many people think you're a fucking idiot I bet
Well, who's the winner now, yeah
Showed your ass. We did it though. We go through three minutes. So we know it is a point there
Oh, there's it's not a point so much as an assertion that's just declared
This is like this is like anti-effap content. Like we can't even pause it cuz we have nothing to pause for
He's done it he's found a counter
Point with like stupid
Fancy words and don't say fucking anything
Like if you have easy way to say it fucking say it you reach more people like that you fucking moron
Yeah, but you'll sound dumb. You need to sound super smart
It's not about getting a point across it's about appearing to be intelligent
He's not smart enough to understand that he doesn't come across as smart but he sure as hell thinks he does this man is
Cinema Roberto you cannot insult him
That's very big rain. I don't know. I'm not smart therefore
Kylo Ren goes around in a Vader style voice-changing helmet that he doesn't need to wear for cuz he likes Vader
No, no, it's a fanboy. Oh
Okay, see the met do you understand the meta narrative there ranks
It's like this this this comparison between see Kylo likes Vader and guess what Star Wars fans like Vader. So there's
It's cosplay guys, it's not an actual real idolization of something in what they accomplished in their ideology
I
Bored he's not really a Seth. He just chooses to dress up like one Vader had armor Kylo Ren has a costume. He is literally
We weren't his retarded border
I
Yeah, sure fine go with it even though it doesn't look anything like Darth Vader but okay
Darth Vader cosplayer
Yeah
I guess
Scene for this now and why was there no maybe that's gonna be part of his point though that that he's
Truly not Vader. He's just a fan and he's an angry anxious and I
Yeah, he's part of the toxic brood. Oh, this is definitely brood
Attitude. Okay. Can we make the Bob a little bigger? I think that's a small the what
In Bob we trust. Oh, I'm right be honest. I think it should just the whole thing should close in like it
Yeah, all sizes here the more we see of in Bob. We trust the less we see of Bob
Fair enough don't don't tempt don't tempt you your luck
In an entire movement that it's basically made up of bad fanboys
What the fuck is this fan theory
Entire first order just stupid fanboys
Right
All look like imperial gear re-imagined by the world's most obnoxious
Ten-year-old fan artists from the hunched over more monster looking walkers to rends stupid handguard lightsaber
Which looks exactly like a cheesy mod someone would patch into a lesser Star Wars game
Seriously, that's our new buildings. So instead of the designers not knowing that what they were doing. It's a deliberate attempt
Yes, so mom if you mimic cosplayers and fanboys, you don't know what they're doing. I love
He's a modder Kylo Ren is like someone who mods Star Wars games. Mm-hmm
I like the idea that someone designed it thinking it was so fucking cool and then movie body was like only some asshole at a
Stupid video game obsessed with fab boys would do this. He's like
Like I don't know man, like I thought it was kind of cool like no you're a fucking idiot
I remember when the trailer for force workers first came out the amount of fucking debates
They were over that cross guard lightsaber people going nuts. They're like, this is a realistic
It's like doesn't make me just says why would you do that? There's a cross card as a bed for that?
It was like now it's just event cuz he he's not like a real Jedi
He does use it to to to hit Finn as well. It's practical in a way. I assume yeah
It looks hot as fuck. I wouldn't want to touch it. It looks red like the bit up top. I agree
Order are basically the Sith war reenactors from Futurama
How the fuck of this how is this the same where do you like
Just because you say that's what it is. That doesn't know that's what it is
Similarity means that they're literally the same thing. But the similarity is they have lightsabers and have cloaks. Is that really it?
All right. Yeah, this is the same
And why are they doing it and what message you're trying to convey?
Darn it had
Now meanwhile Rey is cut from some of the same cloth
She knows all about the force powers and lightsabers and a weird way does she
Anything actually she's like
She didn't know who Han Solo was when she first saw him. Oh wait, well, she knew she knew him as a smuggler
She had no idea. He was a general. She didn't know
Like somehow she didn't know about any of the fucking OT stuff
But she knew that remember she's like Han Solo the smuggler and then Finn is like no the rebellion general and she's like what?
No, everything like how fucked you know him as a smuggler and not as the thing that he was famous saving the world for
Doesn't make sense Charles Darwin. You mean the
I don't even know as the ones well-written. Sir Davos once said if you're a famous smuggler you're doing it wrong
We will never know who the greatest ninja was
The Falcon because she's a fan girl for Star Wars. That explains why she knows nothing about it
Thank you for Star Wars. Oh shit. Skywalker was just a myth like no, that's what
No, that's what fangirls do they they say everything doesn't actually is a thing
Yeah, it makes sense if you don't think about it
She is aware of the legends of the Jedi and wants to like fantasize about being one that means she's a fangirl
She knows nothing about the force
The right the reaching in this video like
Unprecedented please let this be the case. This isn't the kind of stretching you should warn Bob
There's that happened 30 or so years ago that she's heard stories about
The Jedi were real
Imagine somebody said oh there really was a Vietnam war. Oh
Oh
My god, it's so stupid
This is worse because it was a galaxy spanning civil conflict and this guy is telling you that the person who said that is a
huge Vietnam war fan
Girl if she doesn't even know that they exist
I'm a fanboy, but I didn't know this. How is she?
No, hey, we're really four minutes in though
Who would have who'd have thought the fast way to get through Bob's video was to slow it down
Like how you defeat him and the big twists at the end of the fucking story what an enlightening
Oh
Why are they surprised don't know this is the end of it that long why would fit be surprised his whole fact should have based on
destroy the
He's like no shit they're real what do you think Snoke is this is like a crusader saying wait
God what's God?
It won't be that long ago
Functional with sentimental nostalgia helmet of her own she has a little Star Wars doll
Which is now something of a repeating motif in the new trilogy and we first meet her living in the remains of it
That's an interesting motif usage. All right, but a
Motif of dolls there's a motif of dolls. Yeah. No if a doll pops up multiple times, it's a motif
But what are there multiple dolls?
No, it's it's like the same doll, but but we're gonna see that one once. When are there other dolls? I'm outraged
Listen it's we have this the motif of this video is that you don't actually need evidence of something for it to be true
Well, yeah, she lives in a town day TAT so she's a big Star Wars fangirl
I mean, okay, I should rephrase that technically things can be true without having discovered evidence for it
It's just you can make claims and feel they're justified even without being
Presented Evie any evidence of it. Oh, yeah, there are dolls
The point is that you can make shit up there are ones at the end of the last Jedi that their kids are playing with
Yeah, I mean they love the but still action that allowed them to do two instances. It's not even a patent
No, it's a motif
It's like dut dut dut and Beethoven Symphony
To our new heroine who is herself either the last Jedi or the first of whatever the new
Permutation of good force users. That's good. There's nothing else she could be
Thank you for something that when you grow out of all this will be called is an adult woman who essentially still sleeps in a
Star Wars bed
It's completely different
Son
Why do you have to do this Bob
strange man
This is a big part of why the whole ray is a Mary Sue thing pisses me off
Because I'm not shocked that it pisses you off and you can't stand people not liking Star Wars
You know, why do people find it so controversial? Is it literally just because it's like
Email specific and then the you could but you can still they hate the idea of Star Wars not being good
Mm-hmm
Well, I mean hello. I think Hello Greedo was the one who tried to argue that being a Mary Sue isn't even a bad thing
Yeah, it's a it changes people the last Jedi changes people
Yeah, it's like it's kind of like an infection
Where it just makes you disregard everything that you once, you know held to be true or accepted
Like Mary Sue characters are terrible and then the last Jedi comes out and all of a sudden is it even bad?
If someone's a Mary Sue
Is it even bad if nothing makes sense? Not really not really
Who needs sense?
That's his racist because Star Wars can both simultaneously be a love letter this or symbolic this with metanarratives about this and
Simultaneously a movie about space wizards meant for children. It can be both of those things at once
Do you think he's going to argue that?
She can't be a Mary Sue because she grew up amongst
All this stuff from the former empire. I don't know how that would
I feel like he's going to try and tie that in
This is like
This is like like a like saying someone's a war hammer fan boy and they don't know what a space marina, you know
It's like one of those most basic kind of things that you learned about something that you're supposedly a fan of
But right, you're not considering the meta narrative
Damn, right. I'm not fuck that shit
It's like a theme. It could be anything you want it to be and less or more
Oh, absolutely. Yeah metanarratives the fucking
It's like running a story that's only relevant to the world outside the film while the film is trying to represent it
It's the most like garbled nonsense with more syllables
Yeah, and it it really ever has to have supporting evidence. It's just like
Just raise a big fangirl stalls. That's why she lives in
As you need it to be at any time and then you have to wonder halfway through them explaining all of it
You're like, why are we doing that? What are you? Where's this going?
Like don't get it the film's point is that fans are toxic and good at the same time or some shit
Why does it look like he's having a stroke here?
Yes, he probably is have you seen him?
Okay
Lard personified
Misreading back when mary sue meant anything as genre criticism it described obvious self-insert characters who were
Didn't mean anything
What it no the one thing never meant anything
the one thing that's partially getting dropped as time goes on is the self-insert part of it because
People now more especially thanks to ray
They're more using mary sue to mean a character that basically goes through no struggles can achieve everything and everything and is loved by everybody
Which are attributes that are essentially fucking amazing to have in terms of your abilities as a character
Because if everyone loves you and you can do everything and you never get hurt
You're probably gonna be fine
But yes, some people will be like none of that's relevant if it's not a self-insert for the author in this case
Brian johnson slash jj
And so people try and use that as a counter and it's like that's
Not that doesn't really counter the important part like who cares if it's a self-insert or not at this point
We're trying to highlight that she's perfect
Yeah, it doesn't have to be a self-insert
They just have to care like get they have to be that attached to the character that they just give them a free pass
that also still doesn't mean
that
Like even if uh people were saying
She's a self-insert and they were wrong. It's like it doesn't change the other criticisms
Like don't get too hassled over whether or not she's a mary sue by definition of how the word was used initially or whatever
I don't really care the important parts are
Who the fuck wants a character who's perfect loved by everybody and can't fail at anything when she's your protagonist in a film
That's like controlled by drama
Disney
Well, yeah
I'm the competent with no explanation apparently no competent
She takes to all this stuff like second nature because she's grown up being into it
She takes up to all of it like a second nature because she's grown up with it
So he's agreeing then that she is basically amazing at all of it for no fucking reason
So she no the reason is because she sleeps in a broken at 80. That doesn't how does that translate?
Into being an amazing force user slash pilot slash macat there are explanations for the other things
I don't know the force part like
Well, I guess I guess cj was right by the way
Yeah, that's where I felt he was going with this because there's no other way he he can tie this in
So bad, yeah
And also the amazingness of her skill set is way overstated
She's basically so far done the most obvious version of the jedi mind trick once implicitly by reputation
She did it without even knowing anything about it. She just did it
It's the most bizarre scene ever because she has the information that we have
We're like, oh, yeah, she used that even though she don't want to do that. Like how the fuck did kylo lu?
Oh god, yeah
Oh ray training he was trained by luke skywalker
Remember how ray like shoots down three stormtroopers as well with a pistol. She's never you fucking blast. Yeah
Oh, yeah. Oh, I thought you were talking to the other thing. Yeah, you see there's so many instances of her being a fucking
Mary sue. I can't keep straight exactly
every fucking scene
I bypassed the compressor bitch. You fucking ripped the component out of the console
That was the inertial dampeners. No
That's like slapping on a vcr and thinking that you created a dvd player i'm a master mechanic
You are a yeah, and then fluke of what we're all blown away that the narrative is like. Yes. She is like what?
Okay
Why if you say so script because she she she gets all those parts from the 8080
But yeah, but she doesn't build them. Why?
She just gets them but she just pulls parts off big
She doesn't even have to know what they are. She just has to know when I bring this in it is this value
When I bring this thing again, it is this value
Kylo ren taught by luke and snoke for many many years defeated by ray twice who's had no training
Why?
Does he think that the american pickers could just like build a jukebox?
She knew the jedi were real god damn it
The most obvious version of the jedi mind trick once implicitly by i'm sorry
Bob what is the most obvious vision of the jedi mind trick? Is that something we're all aware of there's like several tiers
That is just fucking stupid
She won a lightsaber duel on her own once and it was against a wounded guy who's kind of a wiener and let everyone he's not a wiener
I would say even wounded he should have thrashed her in a second. He's been doing this his whole life
He's been terrorizing multiple people he could hold off fucking laser beams with his hands
Solid argumentation there bob. Thank you. What the fuck wieners
I like that he was like it looked like he was gonna make arguments. He was like, okay, so he's wounded
He's uh, he's kind of a wiener moving on
Yeah, the defense rests your honor
Yeah, that argument was working for a while and then fucking er points out that like if you watch that scene kylo's doing fucking flips
He's doing like aggressive hits. Like yeah, he may be bleeding
But it seems to me that he's actually improved like he's angry in the dark side
I thought pain and hatred was supposed to make you stronger and better which is why that argument doesn't hold up anymore
At least I don't know how long it did but yeah
Oof
Let's face it being good with a quarter staff meaning
You know how to use a sword is only at least almost as shaky logic wise as knowing how to fly the equivalent of a bush plane
Meaning you're all set to fly the equivalent of a fighter jacket. What about ism? This doesn't even matter
Yeah, so you're saying because luke was able to fly an x-wing so well when ollie had flown was a different ship in his home planet
It's fine that ray
Was able to have no training with the force or lightsabers and dominate with both
I thought it was established in uh, and you hope that the controls are very similar
And if you because he because he uh used to drive a speeder, right?
Yeah, this is the thing. It's tough to relate it exactly like is it the difference between let's say
Um, I don't know rags you drive a car, right?
Yeah, would you be able to like drive drive a van with ease
Yeah, absolutely. What about a big old 18 wheeler just to save you time. My first job was a valet
I have driven more cars than
99% of the audience has
Ferraris phantoms and everything is the cheapest shittiest cars to phantoms and everything in between
manuals and
automatics and
Oh man, I have driven every car literally ever made
Yeah, so so what i'm suggesting here is that um the difference between the the thing that luke was flying versus the x-wing
We don't actually know
What the realistic difference between that those are like comparable to real life
ray
was using a stick
And somehow that means she's great with a lightsaber and it's like I don't like if we just got shad on he could explain
If you can drive a car you could pretty much get any car and be reasonably
Quite proficient with it because the controls are pretty much universal and they're designed to be
It makes sense to me that in a star wars universe there would be some kind of standardization
Between ships in the way that we do with cars because there's literally no downside to that and it makes people want to drive your vehicle
Because it removes the learning curve also luke couldn't pilot anything
Because he doesn't fly the falcon at any point does he?
He's in I don't think he shoots the blasty parts at one point like ray just straight up just flies it and she says
She's never flown the ship before right or is that was that the case? I can't remember
I need to remember my force awakens now. She's I don't think she's ever flown before
Anything she she she said she's like practice. She said she's never flown the falcon before that's the part. I was trying to remember or not
Point B we all it's not like we need to fucking argue this
Thing to it's one thing to
Fly it from point A to point B that I can believe
To do the shit that she was doing that's like Stig level stuff
And there's no way that I'm gonna believe that you can just pull that off
Yeah, and besides we're arguing the part that's a little bit arguable the other one isn't the fact that she got no force trading
It is amazing at it
Fucking picking up all those goddamn stones when luke struggled to like keep three up when he was trained. Fuck you
You're cheating
There's no way you're beating somebody
Like if you were just given a lightsaber and say fight kylo rinton, you're fucked
There's absolutely no way you could win. You would probably kill yourself with that thing because there's no counterweight to it
And if it touches you you're losing a finger or an arm or a leg
Like I ain't picking up a lightsaber fuck no fucking kill myself. Also, I like the sword
Certainly not like a quarter staff. It's good that you're aware of top gear high five
Oh, absolutely. I fucking love top gear the old one not fucked anyone either way on a meta level and in universe
She's super good at star wars stuff because she's a star
Since when does being a star wars fan mean you good at star wars stuff? How does it even translate at all?
That doesn't make any sense
It's like me saying oh i'm a huge wrestling fan
I could just go in the ring and do like all those flips and suplex all this fuckers around
No, that's not how it fucking works you
Dick I saw on tv. I can do it
Ironically, that's like the the idiot nerd's perspective on
Like being a fan of a sport or an event or i've i've seen like zombie movies. I would survive a zombie apocalypse
Second half is like oh man. I like to go to walmart, but it's not open
Trying to eat. She's trying to eat me. What the fuck?
Wait, wait, call of duty. I'd make a great navy seal. Where's my where's my fresh water? Oh, no
I wouldn't be a problem. That's not a mary sue. That's quinn's that picture
So from that perspective the entirety of raze interactions with luke and the last jedi are nothing less than a literal and figurative
Encounter wherein a star wars fangirl approaches the veteran hero. She has no fucking clue about any of it
How can you call her a fan? She says isn't the force where you like float rocks and stuff?
Why would a star wars fan say that they'd be like, oh the force is mystical, but they say a bunch of gay
Shit, they wouldn't say what she said bullshit. Hey
Fucking fan
It's the guy this is the if she was a fan and an actual fan was next to her
They'd be like, oh, you're fucking you're a phony. Are you serious?
You don't know shit about this
Hey gamer girl detected like you have you have luke's likes to gimme that gimme luke's likes if you deserve to hold that shit
Ray is the equivalent of a twitch thought
She sells bath water on tattooing
Are or are what jacou or whatever not tattooing not tattooing
Star wars and essentially says hey
We need luke skywalker to come back and be awesome in star wars one more time and yeah
Basically gives her the real life version of shatner telling that guy to get a life in that snl sketch
Because he's done with star wars and yeah
But one of those is an snl sketch that's designed to be funny and stupid
Yeah, and i refuse that it's out of character. Not that
Why does it so it matches up with this weird matter narrative that makes no sense. Therefore, it's good. Okay
I guess that's more I guess that is more important and is weighed more heavily than all of the
Information presented in the films and all the films that came before it
The match the meta narrative takes precedence. Sure. Gotcha. Well, you need
And then just decided the whole thing is kind of bullshit
And then he spends several days basically giving her the in-universe version of every deconstructionist
Cultural critique lecture about how star wars talk to her for 10 minutes
What are you talking about he gave him one lesson and he fucked it up
He's like, oh the force is done. The jedi are bad
He didn't even prove that all his lesson was the hey the force exists
Yes, and she's like yes, and then he goes the jedi don't own it. Yes, and she's like, yeah, sure. I don't know fine
That's it
Oh
It's a lot more pretentious than that obviously he's like there is life there is death
There is violence. There's peace and you're like, yeah, I know force doesn't belong to the jedi
There's peace. Shouldn't we work towards that in case you help us with that? No, this is just there's violence
Shut up. I'm the master. Sorry. That's what I hate about everything in in fucking. What was it called?
Stupid place retrades it islands
Why have I forgotten things
No
Oh, no, that was pedo island, but it's skellig island in real life. Why do I remember that?
Don't remember the actual island day with the film. I'm a bad dude
Oh, you're not talking about skelliga. No
Waiting for chat to help me here. Um arc two that's it. That's it. I guess
It sounds like a sneeze the him teaching his
That's culturally insensitive like his goal was to essentially teach here that
The jedi is not something that's worth rebooting if you will
When her whole reason to be there is that hey this horrible army of people are about to wipe out like innocent and good life
On the universe. Can you help so like his goal?
Isn't even relevant. It's like can you stop wasting time? Like yeah, okay, fine fine. Jedi suck fine fine fine
But they're still better than the sith. So let's go
It's like no I have to tell you about yeah, didn't they protect the galaxy for thousands and thousands and thousands of years
Who cares they allowed cidius to rise rags that makes them the bad guys
I'll take a thousand years of awesome if eventually at the end there might be some bad
Yeah, no me too. We're we're probably the weirdos in that group
And I guess it's fuck it the thousand years of peace prosperity throughout the galaxy
That
Deconstructionist cultural critique lecture about how star wars and the whole concept of jedi are bad. It's arrogant
It's elitist. It's based on old dried up myths that aren't compatible anymore stuff. Wait
So right is wrong myths that are incompatible
so it was luke grider I
So
I'm confused with so does he think luke is right or wrong here i'm getting mixed signals
I think he's I think he's saying that luke was wrong and he's going to be proven wrong
So, I think he's saying that luke's putting forward these arguments that are meant to be criticisms of star wars
Um the concepts it's using itself and then ray comes along and disproves him and proves that these concepts still have some relevance
uh
Because it makes sense that ray should be the one to explain that to him. Well, she is the star wars fan
Oh, okay
As we know from him many references to things that she enjoys about the star wars universe
And leveled against like what is this franchise forever?
Basically, you've heard it all before all capped off with the idea that all the bad stuff about the jedi
Aka the star wars franchise and his failure to recognize it is responsible for the existence of kylo ren in the first order
aka shitty star
so like
I guess if there was no star wars there would be no fans that you don't approve
Like luke skywalker is responsible for bad fans
I guess
Is uh, this is the film fan boys
You want to take your shirt off
You want to take that shirt off asshole, but here's the key
The last jedi is on ray's side of I can see bob actually doing that
Yeah
Movie thinks luke is wrong about this. That's why it commits so hard to old man luke
It's just so weird
Like
Why did he get there bob? Why did he get to that position?
He's so fucking wrong and it goes every against his character entirely
How did he get there?
Pointing asshole about the whole thing
So we understand in no uncertain terms that when she argues back at him that despite his disillusionment with his
Reputation the legacy of star wars the legend of luke skywalker is an important thing that matters to people is still needed
And can still do good in the universe
She metaphorically representing star wars fans is right and he's wrong
I wouldn't even say that that's what we see happen in the film. Yoda's the one that convinces luke to uh
Yeah, it wasn't her wasn't here
She ain't the one who did it. In fact, she she
She convinces luke to finally kill himself. He's gonna blow up the temple and end it all
So I don't know
I
So I guess the what movie bob
Thinks is the right star wars fan is killing star wars. I I guess
When when the true star wars fan is a green alien puppet man
ghost
Oh, that was the true star wars. That was the star wars we needed all along
Yeah, that makes sense. I guess
not again
There's some necessary gray area to it
Of course the new trilogy does at least thus far seem to agree that the jedi need to evolve in order to endure
Even as it maintains that how do they need to evolve though?
Like do they ever actually explain how they need to evolve and it was their choice to essentially slash them like over this time
We could have had a whole bunch of new jedi
But no we just apparently was just luke and his all of his students died because kylo killed them all
Because kylo kylo totally wasn't evil up until luke's shocked him in bed
And that's what made kylo decide to kill all the other students. I've never understood that
like if
If your history of becoming a bad person was the family member you trusted
Tried to kill you one day because they thought that you were like a bad person and they were one of the best people in
The world just like oh, yeah, that could see I could see how that could lead you down a bad path
But killing a bunch of other innocent people the same night
I think you were already a bad guy
I don't think there's anything to do with luke. You already had some uh, you already had some issues there
Just like
Set the gloss over that somehow
But needing to endure in the first place
Hence why luke doesn't fully get that he's in the wrong about any of this until he gets it talking to from yoda
And while we're at it why it may oh, so so so the thing you said earlier isn't true at all
Then I guess the way he reconciles it is ray planted the seed and yoda convinced him that it was a good
So what's the metanarrative of?
Yeah, what's the yoda represent? What's his adjacent metanarrative equivalent?
I hate it when they talk like this
It's just like can you get use of fish past all the nonsense and actually use real words?
Sense for yoda to destroy the altar but only symbolically because ray already only symbolically destroy again
What do you mean?
He sets it on fire
Okay
Just because he didn't destroy the book
The thing i've always wanted to see was the morning after where all the fish nuns come out and they're like, oh my god
How does shit catch fire on this island
Was was this luke it's like he's gone. It was luke. He fucked everything up. And then yoda appears like no, it was me
Oh my god, that man must have
demon
They have no purpose anymore the whole reason they were there was to take care of the temple
What are supposed to do? Do they just jump into the water?
Imagine being luke having to explain that to the fish nuns
A ghost puppet alien
Bear with me until the end so i'm walking around i'm gonna burn down the temple, right?
I was I didn't though, but bear with me, but then yoda shows up in ghost form and i'm like, whoa
What's going on here?
What the fuck's a yoda?
You ain't getting any more fish nun poontang i'll tell you that you got to explain this
Why must you do that when we're we're responding to movie bob of all people
His uh lack of ears
Is quite disconcerting. Yes, that's something that i've always it's been bugging me. What is it about the way his face works
Yeah, he well he likes to listen to his own voice surely
Oh, yeah, his body's hands are sort of weird
It's the meta narrative of his face vox has said who's gonna milk the tit monster
I guess he's here to swell up and explode
That's the ticking clock of the island. They got to figure out how to do it before he blows
Before it blows up the island
Because of course she did she's a star wars fan
If people supposedly in charge of the franchise say it's done now and she disagrees
She'll take it up on her own and then like any fanfic writer worth her salter
First alternate approach involves trying to find the good in a sensitive bad boy
Everyone oh what what now?
Hmm, what was that?
Anyone for some reason it's not letting me drag past like three seconds. I'm that's like my limit on watch together
Has anyone else got that right now?
uh
Wait, what can any of you drag it to like go for 7 40?
uh
Sure, you won't let me do it
I think that's seven. Wait. No, it went back three
I just dragged it to 7 40. Yep. There we go. Okay first alternate approach involves trying to find the good in a sensitive bad boy
Everyone has to start somewhere
He's not like anybody. I so ray is trying to find the good in a sensitive bad boy
Apparently that's something a fan girl of star wars does
I don't I I don't know
Do you see how this is this is sickle slot square peg sort of situation here?
He's just desperately doing anything he can to make this
Make any sense and every time he does it just just gets more confusing
The fuck is he talking about with any of this?
Ever met he's like a riddle wrapped in an enigma wrapped in a vest
Sure is ugly though
So, why can't I stop staring at him?
Oh
But see and to run that meta narrative because he's fucking referring to it as before we even talk about that
It it doesn't even make sense. She's like super pissed at him for killing
For some reason her father figure
But then she's also just like yeah
I kind of actually have a crush on him now like oh
Apparently voxus wants to come on
All right, I mean do it six man jesus the fucking get rid of metal then
Okay
Door bell he's just a bullet. Why don't you wow. Whoa. Whoa. Wait a second. How come it's never you that has to leave mauler?
Good question
Guess we'll find out one day why that is but it won't be today. That's gonna be efap like 100 law
We have to discuss the efap metatnerd
This is a this is a full house now, oh, yeah
All right, what a weird combo of characters
Just hope his internet kicks in
Saturday night
Saturday night saturday night. Oh, yes rigby. Oh, yes
Actually, it's saturday morning. Um
He's right. I was singing a song. So what you've just said is offensive. Oh, man, you're objectively wrong. So you're subjectively wrong
Got him
Hello, hello testing. So you don't like movie bob. Is that what you're suggesting?
How dare of you he is my favorite
So what are we talking about? So what's postmodernist buzzword are we going for now?
He said ludonarrative that's one. No
You said metanarrative again and again and again
symbolics and all that shit
Symbolic it's been a nightmare
Yeah, yeah, I i've watched it. It's uh, i've been dipping in and out of all the just the it's your typical
Deconstructionist no, no, no, no. I I felt it was this way. So let me
As you said square peg round hole. Well, you're not you're not letting him have his opinion here
That's that's why you're a bad person. You're not letting him like speak his mind have his have his truth
You're not letting him have his truth true true, but then aren't I also entitled to have my own truth in my own opinion?
No, you're you're a white male
Am I
You're a white puppet. You're not a white male. You're an old man. You represent a bygone patriarchy
But i'm hung like a black man. So does that
I think I think
I was gonna say we have we have a female guest and you said something so horrific and she's been so so very civil
and
What is a lady
Yes
He was so connected here I never feel the need I guess
So cj and voxxis the the doggo and the puppeteau
This is metal and jay longbone
Metal jay longbone. This is cj and voxxis. I don't know who out of you guys have met before or not
But now you have for sure
hollomanheimer
holla
Hello, um
It's very nice. Oh this lady. It's
It's no longer a sausage fest
All right, calm down focus. Did you take it? Did you take your pills today old man? I took too many
Time is it oh jesus
It's all dry. Would you like to to mention that you're single? I don't know. It is something
Um, well considering uh cj confessed today he's about to become a wizard
Then again, he does want his powers, doesn't he so you want to hold on
Um, yeah, are you a griffin door a hufflepuff a raven claw? Who the fuck would want hufflepuffs or us or yeah
Anything but hufflepuff more like hufflepoof. Am I right?
Isn't isn't that a a joke did you hear about the gay magician he disappeared into a poof
Ah, that's racist
Let me guess he was a black magician. Yeah. Yeah fun. I like it because i'm full of self-loathing
Oh, yeah, so there's a video, um, yeah, yeah, sorry completely derailed things
Eventually does come around to her view of things anyway
Specifically that he and the jedi and star wars are valuable for the good they can inspire in fans like her
That's why the astral projection twist for the big final battle is such a genius. Yes. Yes
Genius gag. Yeah, it was a genius gag
Oh, do you think i'm a
That's the way that he describes that nothing really
You mean the complete asshole didn't um, was it escape from new york?
Have a similar ending no escape from new york
The other one
Where oh the twist is oh, it's yeah, isn't that the one where the twist is?
Oh, it's a hologram. Yeah, I remember people highlighting that it was essentially a rip
But I mean there's probably a lot of films that have a lot of similarities here and there I would just rather say
Yeah, it's just bad. Even if it's a bad clone, it's bad
It was a twist for having a sake of the twist, wasn't it what a bizarre defense
It was a good gag. You're like i'm pretty sure it was supposed to be a dramatic moment
I think they were trying to make it a gag
Uh
Some people left but I think they laughed because of how much of an arse pull it was
Imagine being like the director here hearing people laughing at a moment you thought was like meaningful
Oh
Also because kylo ren getting humiliated will never stop being fun to watch but mainly because it allows loop to not
It wasn't fun the first time no
It certainly didn't get better. I don't know if we should associate the word fun with the last jedi. I feel like that's
You know, it's a bit much
Their credits were fun. Oh, yeah
Last rescue but to actually make the legendary version of himself the invincible all-powerful
Yeah, not to mention that like how who's spreading this story the empire doing it
But or like half a dozen people
And how embarrassing when like everyone's like oh luke took on an army of them and survived that's so cool
So someone goes oh, he just projected himself there and like doing it gave him a heart attack
So yeah, he just distracted him for a moment with a hologram
It's like he was never actually in any danger at all
Yeah, no
And he thought he would survive it like sneak out but then he just keeled over because it was too much for his old
this
Old it was embarrassing. It was horrible
and the kids tell each other the story of luke the fool who
Tried to trick everyone. It could have helped in a meaningful way, but instead like a coward
Pretended to be in a place where he wasn't and then died from it
He literally phoned it in and it killed him
It was a really good gag one for the ages. Oh, how long it was a good gag. That's true
But
Hopable luke skywalker jedi master who he may never actually have been himself real enough
What do you really never actually was that he did save the fucking galaxy?
Killed the emperor. I think that counts. Well the metanarrative says otherwise so
Well, apparently no one no one told that story because no one fucking knows anymore
For a moment that it can inspire the good side of the galaxy all over again
Well, why was that something that needed to happen?
Anyway, like a 30 years is actually really not that long in terms of the galaxy had been saved
Like I can't imagine that it wasn't fresh on people's memories
Jesus christ, we're only 30 years into our new galactic republic, you know
I like how how was america right now? How was america 30 years after their independence? So like 30 years ago was
1989
So we what did we talk about at the beginning of the stream robo cop came out in 1987
Imagine if nobody knew that robo cop existed
Yeah, and there was simultaneously a huge fad of it
And that was a movie on a part of a planet that most people haven't seen
We're talking about massive galactic civil war that destroyed the most powerful force of evil the galaxy had ever known
And people are just like I don't know. It's fucking nothing. I don't know what happened. Oh, it's just a meme. I don't know
It'd be kind of like people not thinking the Soviet Union was
Yeah, what do you what do you mean the berlin wall actually came down
Yeah, I just saw it in a chest like berlin wall. I don't know anything about that
What happened in 1989?
um
berlin wall came down in 1989
Spot on
Good job. That's crazy. How you knew that right off the top of your head. Very cool
And so, you know, we needed ray to convince luke to bring
The element of like oh, yeah, there are heroes in the world that we can look up to and it's like where the fuck did they go?
Why did you why since when was would nobody looking up to them anymore?
Was it really the everyone found out he ran a jedi school and one of his edgy fucking students killed everyone there that ruined everything for everyone
Just like oh, what a great story. The most popular movie in 1989 was who framed roger rabbit?
I know that one. I mean, is that a real movie?
And the most popular television show. Oh, no the cosby show
I change you want something to drink boy? No
I can call it the out of fighting without fighting
Because that's the payoff for making this the central theme of luke and ray's story
It's not just luke skywalker the man who saves the day
It's the bigger and more powerful didn't save anything
Of luke skywalker as he existed for ray and in the wire, but they didn't save anything
This is a dumb point because it just doesn't happen. This just doesn't exist in the movie
Yeah, yeah, if he didn't say anything if he saved the day we shouldn't have another film afterwards that's it
And instead the empire like at the height of power and the rebels are literally like a dwindling force on one ship like help
And that's not gonna motivate people because people are gonna say where's luke skywalker. Oh, he's dead. Oh
I don't remember how they're like
Oh, they can they can track any ships through hyperspace like oh, they leave happily ever after all the other ship in hyperspace
All the ships in orbit are just gonna blast it away like the
How is there
And it was ray who saved him anyway because she moved rocks exactly they they oh my god is so dumb
Like I can't resist talking about this again
But so po is like, uh luke wants us to go through the exit that he came in
Obviously so we can escape and you pause right there and you're like, oh
You think luke wants you to just run out into the salt planet infinitely? You just run you just like run into a cave somewhere
Like wait, what did you suggest that you came on a ship that you could all get on to and how you gonna stop them
From tracking you they've got like super tracking now as you just as they have
They have a entire fleet of massive warships. They have
I even though they apparently never want to ever use it like thousands and thousands and thousands and
Thousands of troops and ships and like I get it
Okay, like I get it that that's maybe something you could interpret. It's like luke
I know you're doing your cool guy walk
And and everyone's apparently letting him do it, but wouldn't you be like, hey, whoa luke luke before you go
Where did you come in? What the fuck should we do? Where did you come in? Which was at that door?
How how did you get here? Where's the parking lot? Where's your ship? Can we use that?
And so you're like, okay fine. No, they could they didn't have time. He was doing his cool walk
They didn't have time. So they they run to the back of the area
They follow the crystal tism there and then they're like, oh no, it's blocked off. Oh, no. Luke's however. Luke got in
Has now unfortunately been locked off and then ray opens it all up and they're like, oh how convenient
What the hell is happening?
Yeah, it's all so stupid
I remember ray only got there because for some reason when she did a big force battle with kylo
He got knocked out and she didn't
Convenient that and she stole snoke's personal escape ship that just happened to be there like oh this film's so badly written
It's just there for the taking you just if you it's it's it's uh, listen
The first order as we all know operate the trust system
Damn it
Natural imagination both in the star wars universe and in our own from where i'm sitting
That is the main thematic takeaway from the philosophical side of the story thematic takeaway from the philosophical
element of the
Jesus christ bob
See to me is is when they've ran out of sounding meaningful with like regular words
Like fuck we're gonna use some words. Otherwise people might think we're a fraud
It was scandiferious
Um
ancient egyptian hebrew philosophers would often come templative
writings in scripture
These ancient dealings in nihilistic philanthropy
narrative isms
And then he just like throws like pie in there randomly and you're like
Yeah, wouldn't it be funny if it like a stroke halfway through as I pontificate about the philosophical
like
Story in the last jedi a metanarrative that says to star wars fans your devotion to this is a good thing
You are right about that message did not translate too many people
I just like that. They marked up so bad
Hey fans that came from all the other movies where luke skywalker was that cool?
Dude that saved the universe. It was a good character
He's no shit
You're welcome
But it's okay. If you if you if you if you're against that because she because ray is nice
And things it's like what are you talking about? You're like, why oh that kid's dressed up as anakin from phantom menace. Wow
What's that? Who's that steampunk asshole just here who lost his he's at the wrong convention
Is he trying to be c3po but not?
No, he's no like let's do the star wars picture guys this guy's like hey i'll call stay on the right
You have the world's shittiest boba fat
Hey, these are the fans the film was for okay
Oh
Listen back and you are going to continue the guy who says let the past die is a total hypocrite
Who stays on the shitty path? He was already on
Can you really prove he's a hypocrite? What the fuck are his values? Like I can't even tell
The fuck does kylo even want is he just maybe he's just a liar
Or he's an idiot
He's not an hypocrite because he doesn't even know I know I know everyone in the first order is a fucking retard. Mm-hmm
Because if I was in charge of shit, there would be like the first 20 minutes of the movie and it would be we'd be done
In
Yeah, how the film starts he could have just shot the raddest the film fucking ends it's bizarre
You can't the film's like opening five seconds. It's broken
He establishes himself. Yes, the real estate values plummet. We'll let him win in the long run
Wanted to end the jedi sees his error and is redeemed the fangirl who argued him out of his funk
And then it wasn't that was yoda example is the i'm taking yoda's victory away
He was the one who was like fuck. I gotta get this shit on the road
It was the puppet and not our puppet the green puppet
That's his redeemer and by proxy the co-savior of the resistance the star
I've never actually asked voxis. How do you feel about puppet representation through yoda?
Uh
Um
That is quite a philosophical question if we examine the ludo narrative
and pontificate about the metaphysical aspects of i'm fucking now fuck it all
This is a fucking dumpster fire. That's what this is
first of all
The whole yoda thing in general
Is a is another asshole and of other people have noticed it's a massive plot holder
This puppet can show up and is is god. He can summon down lightning
and
Why doesn't why didn't do it at some point to just say, you know yoda you're pretty powerful
Can you not intervene? Can you not like you could help the resistance? You just
Just target
Your target uh, look for some emo kid. You can't miss him
Just a couple of thousand volts up his ass
That'd be really good. And uh, if you want you can burn the books some more
We'll go to as many book burnings as you like. I got some loads of 50 shades of grape
We'll throw that fucking on the fire. We'll we'll do it all. Um, but yeah, do me a solid
Would you and maybe not even yoda if you're gonna pull ghosts out your ass
obi-wan
Darth vader shows up at the end now considering uh, kylo is a vader fanboy. Why isn't go? Oh, you like vader
Well, here he is and he's really fucking disappointed and you could you could shame him with the ghost of our fader
Now that'd be an interesting twist. I'd like that
Never meet your heroes as they say
Watching an emo fanboy of vader break down and go. Oh, I didn't get like credibility from my hero vader
I'm a fucker. I'm gonna do I think i'll throw myself in my lightsaber. Now that would have been a good ending
I would have loved to have seen that
I like the idea that
He's just he's just like he could easily win the whole war for them
But they're like, you know to just electrocute those shifts. He's like, no, you have to win yourselves. He's like, okay
No, yeah, I get it. I do like it's a fair
Trying to teach us stuff like it's great. It really is but
People are dying dude. Yeah, a lot of like like the fate of the universe is potentially
You know in the balance here. Uh, we'll tell you what you do this. We'll come by for summer school
We'll make it all up to you
but for now
Maybe save the universe first. Oh, this is a great list of views. Like you know, there's 20 of us left
They used to be hundreds thousands. Yeah, like we're actually fucked. I get it. It's funny. Haha, but
Seriously now yoda. He's just like oh you guys need to learn
But then when luke dies, can't he do that? Is that is that something's gonna happen in the next film?
He shows up and goes. Oh, yeah, I love this trick from yoda. I can zap people from beyond the grave. Uh, check it out
Uh, it opens up just this whole can of worms
These mystical force powers in the new star wars films. You just you just
They're like a bag of tricks. You just yeah, they can fucking do anything. Uh,
That can make you fly in space and breathe in a vacuum
You can come back from the dead and you can physically interact with the world and shoot lightning out your ass. Whatever
Oh, you can wear it on your motorcycle watch
Anything is possible
I really I think I think I would not be surprised if ray in the next film physically flies
Or time travel. Some people have said time travel might be on the cards. I wouldn't put it past them at this fucking point
What what what what do you gentlemen think do you think that time travel might be a possibility?
In the next star wars film. I think it might
I think I i'm not counting out anything at this point. Yeah, same infinite possibilities
In a bad way
I just want to know what the fuck they're doing
like
I can't get any reasonable
Idea what they would do next
Legitimately super curious
I have zero expectations
I think they'll try and get the galaxy theme park up and running better. I think they're trying to scramble for that
Um, they've got that mandalorian tv series part of their streaming service. So they're going to try and
Get people in on that save face. Um, what else has happened to disney?
Oh, yeah, they've had to cancel the uh, the resistance animated series after two seasons because it was the most shit that got cancelled
Wait, what?
Wait, what well rest in peace. I mean well, the funny thing is I didn't even know it had a season two
Yeah, it was the show that like a whole bunch of people criticized for it's like poor animation and like it's tone resistant
Oh resistance
It's over of course. It was like it was like it's for kids it aired like at 9 p.m
Which is prime time for
Children to watch not that they would even if they could
Terrible. It's like a house of cards because you've got that
Have you heard the stories coming out at the galaxy?
Uh resort to park galaxies edge. Yeah. Yeah, they're having to cut back some of the hours of the the disney
drone actors
Um, there's like one ride and that's it and they spent a billion they spent a cool billion
On what is essentially the millennium falcon shitty arcade ride and the rest is like a strip mall. It's just really expensive shops
Uh, so they've got a streaming service. They've got this the next one rise of the skywalker, which comes out the end of the year
and that's
One trailer one teaser trailer the promotional stuff. I mean we're bound to see more as it gets close to the date
But i'm not feeling the hype for this. I mean you look at something like uh
End game which came out this year. Well, we almost talked about and still talks about it luke skywalker
Rise of the skywalker whatever no one's going here. I'm really looking forward to that
I don't think it'll flop. But holy shit star wars like is dying as a franchise
So sad because you I think the marvel, you know marvel shooting up they were probably like, oh, let's just do with marvel
What we do with star wars what we've done with marvel just spam, but it's like yeah people are ready for star wars spam because
Like killed gotta be good to spam it. Yeah
Because people talk about superhero fatigue. That's like, uh, oh is did you see um
Red light media covering the boys ranks
Um, I haven't watched it because i'm worried about potential spoilers. Yeah. No, that's it's a good shout
But um, it's funny because jay talks about how like he wants to recommend this show and he loves the show
Even though he said he's like off the superhero trade. Apparently he's just still on it
It's just like yeah, it's it's a little bit more complicated than you know, too much superhero stuff
It's like no, no too much like superhero stuff could be all in the execution
Yeah, and star wars like there's so little of it
And it's so fucking disappointing that tlj destroys everything that solo happens like oh
It's like having like bad calls a lot of bad calls on disney's part
Yeah, like how many marvel films do you think would have to be bad in a row for marvel to start actually?
Getting fucked, you know, like monetarily
a lot i'm curious if the loss of iron man and captain america will affect like
I don't know
The film's going forward because I I mean, you know fucking spider-man just made a billion dollars. So apparently not
It depends uh, I think I think marvel is at that stage where they can take the hits because they've had so much success
And the franchise is enormous now
Yeah, it's almost like they have a lot of room to experiment and really see if what you know
They can prospect for that next gold mine
Yeah, a lot of people like such a
They have like such a big following now that they can do like a lot of lots of lots of fuckery before anything
Like and they've earned it. That's the thing when it comes to marvel. They've largely they've really earned
Yeah to clarify so many people are down for it in fairness. It is spider-man. That's true. Um,
and phase four isn't looking great, uh as
A projection I can't say how good each of these things that are coming out are going to be but holy shit
There wasn't much to really get me hyped up. But hey, we'll see what happens, I guess
But um, yeah, no, um, you know, everything rises and falls eventually
But I don't know what the fuck's gonna happen with star wars like after episode nine, which is going to be a disaster
I think we're all very much at peace with that. Like it's
It's it's like it's like watching
It's like you've seen the car crash
But you're just revisiting it just just to see if there are any survivors and if you can identify
Yeah, I want to watch the firemen and the paramedics pull out the mangled corpses from the wreckage
Well, I think tfa was tfa was the car crash
All right
tfa was a car crash tlj was the the people crawling out covered in blood and then getting kerb stomped and then this film
Is going to be us looking at the blood drain like down
It's gonna be a desperate
The jaws of life are gonna be on the cob
But it's on fire and people are burning inside and they're screaming and jj aprons
He's pulling at the door and eventually he's gonna go
Fuck it. I think episode nine and then get the flux capacitor time travel that shit
No, no episode nine is the plucky
Inexperienced paramedic and this is his first job and he could either do well
But he's probably gonna fuck it up beyond all repair and end up killing them
Okay, he's like
They're like put a put a pillow under them until the ambulance gets here and he's like scalpel they're like, why do you
The last thing you want to do is move their neck so you're already
They're dead you killed them
It might still be life, but after it it's not gonna be recognizable. It's someone coming back and go
You you liked the way your husband looked didn't you yeah, he's still the same it's just um
He's just missing an ear. He looks the same in the dark
You thought that they fucked up his face
But what they actually did was take his face and put it on a different person like horribly glue it and staple it on
Don't worry about it you'll be long gone by then
Just get it over with but yeah lots of bad calls by disney. Uh, I think I think cynic snacks
Put it quite well
There are more bad star wars films than there are good at this point, aren't there? I think we can
Probably agree. I mean some people can defend the prequels and like them
But even add up all the the spin-offs and the christmas special as well. We can't ignore that
If that if that counts too
I mean it depends on which ones account is good and bad because a lot of people are iffy on
What revenge of the sith counts as and return of the jedi because you know, I love returning the jedi
But it's got some tismi writing in it. It's just the by comparison to the sequels. All of them are good
But yes the in terms of eras if you look at it as ot prequels and disney disney is now the biggest of the three eras
They have the controlling stock in what is star wars
We did it
Yeah, I mean a lot of people are like well
That doesn't count because the ot and the prequels are the george era and it's like who sees the prequels and the ot is
One continuous era though
They're very distinctively different in terms of production. That's all I mean like of course in continuity they are
But if we're going to go by continuity
Then the disney ones count as well
That's the wonderful world we're in
Anyway, we were watching a movie bob video remember that no, why I don't want to
The resistance the star wars universe is thus preserved and reaffirmed by the consumerism
Yeah, we get it
All nines and votes faggot it's come to us a lot. I suddenly want to buy a fox
I want to buy a tesla and then tell my audience I didn't
Yeah
Don't question just consume
Jesus christ, why is this so warped
Because he's just going so slow how that could be more the opposite of trashing or diminishing classic star wars
Our main heroine is our main heroine because she's driven by reverence for
Um, I wish I wish there was something in the film that explained why she's actually here
So it would be so cool to know what actually drives it what motivates her to do good
Yeah, yeah, i'm gonna say
Motivation to get off the planet in the first films. I just want to get off. I just don't want to be
Because there's a moment where she sees an old lady cleaning rust and the implication there is that's my future
I'm gonna be stuck on this rock an old lady sand in my vagina cleaning bits of metal for the rest of my days
I want to yeah, but the sand gives it some grip
Indeed indeed, but she doesn't want that and she gets off that but that's the problem
Her thing was to get off the planet. She gets off the planet and then suddenly
Gone that was my motivation. Now. I need new motivation. Uh, here's a lightsaber. It might mean something it might not
There you go
And that's it
And now we have this weird like aimless child who needs to be told what to do and that's her character
Well, yeah, they're like the fact that leah sends her to go see luke's like why it's like
You have the force
He has the force
You you like luke, do you know about she's like yeah, I guess she's like okay go take chewy with you. I guess I don't know
She knows about han solo because she has that big oh your han she knows about luke as well
But she thinks he's a myth. Is that how it goes?
Yeah, after after everything that's happened
everyone's it's it's the world building that jg setup hasn't really been fleshed out and is very confusing so after
A giant planet which destroyed alderaan is destroyed and it never happened 30 years ago. That's that's a myth
That's a legend. Yeah, people can't go with a fucking holocaust. Imagine an entire
Planet blow. I don't like the holocaust by the way. The holocaust is bad. Just for just to be clear
I know we had an issue a controversial take
But just so we're clear youtube, um, but imagine a whole planet getting destroyed
Like that will that is a that is a horror on the galaxy that will never ever be forgotten
Except that it is 30 years later
Doesn't she like leave?
Takodana in in tfa. She's like oh
Go tismy land then she's kidnapped by kylo and then they save it and then there's no scene that makes it like go
You know what?
This cause is worth fighting for you know, something like that. She just goes. Yeah, i'll go find luke. You're like, but why what?
Like imagine leah was like well you find luke she's like no i'm going back to jack who I hate this shit
Okay
I would like that
So
It sucks. Just get rid of it gets his ass handed to him. Not just by luke skywalker
But by from a certain perspective a motion picture about luke skywalker
Willed into action by the needs of fandom to see one more motion picture about luke skywalk
If he was impressed with me saying all this i'd be like he was serious right now
Come on
He's like well, this is about a narrative
So he's saying that luke skywalker
kicked
His own ass by being in a star wars film think about it from the perspective of a meta narrative old man
Okay, I know you're not used to this but you see ray. I am i'm just fucking sick of it
Ray got him into gear and then he created a projection of himself a series of images
If you will a film of himself a projection of luke skywalker defeated the negative fan
By getting boosted by the positive fan
Get it
So he's comparing the narrative
In the last jedi with the real world narrative of fans being pissed off
with
Star wars
I don't really know i'm not sure wow, that's quite a reach. It's quite a reach and
I don't think ray really inspired isn't luke really inspired when he sees the old
Holographic projection of his sister coming out of r2d2 because he has a little grumpy
Moment where you know flounces around the island and then he goes back to the millennium falcon for nostalgia's sake and he sits down
And r2d2 just happens to have that 30 year old recording just stored in case
I don't know
in case luke gets
Dementia or alzheimer's needs reminding
I don't know, but he sees that and he's like, oh, yeah now. I remember what I fought for
Certainly, isn't it r2d2?
Or if you want to get met narrative, it's projecting that saved luke skywalker
And I think that's what bob is doing trying to save luke skywalker by projecting
I mean honestly
This just slots right in with all of the insane takes that people have defending this film
or fucking captain marvel
You never know how far they'll go and they'll never be able to use just your good old-fashioned
Consistent progression. Fuck that
There's no way they defended the films with that so they're going to choose these weird fucking positions
Yeah, they have to do this this
Serpentine slithering around just trying to avoid the main issue, which is
It was a bad movie and the consensus was it was a bad movie and I think for a lot of people
They need to come to grips with the fact that
You know what if you do like the last jedi, whatever fine
But there's no shame in saying I like a bad movie
Some people take their their tastes in movies too seriously and they get they get personally hurt if someone says to them
Oh, yeah, that movie was crap. I didn't like that
But your their entire opinion you're entitled to yours and your taste but
I think for some of these people it's almost like emperors new clothes. No, no
It's not it's not a bad movie. It's a it's a beautiful robe. You can't see me naked at all
You can't see my dick hanging. What if they said to you? It's okay to dislike a good movie
And that's perfectly within reason
But but the problem is is when you you do force people to look at it through the the
objective standards
And you know, you can you can acknowledge a film for its faults and like it but some of these just just
You know can't see the forest for the trees. They refuse
to go
Yeah, there's an inconsistency there, but but then they do this mental gymnastics, but but the the inconsistency works because uh,
Fuck, where's my thesaurus? Uh ludonarrative. Yes
It it's oh in fact, I want to sound smart. I don't want to be called out for having bad taste in films
A lot of this is ego. Some people need to put the ego to a side and the pseudo intellectual bollocks
You know, yeah, you know what? It wasn't that great
I'd be interested to see what people's opinions change when
Rise of the skywalker comes out to see if people change their tune when they have that coming next to it
And they go actually yeah that that that one was bad, but this one redeemed it in the end
I think there will be some
Up as new star wars apologists who will go for that angle
Once the next film comes out
They'll they'll go actually. Yeah, i'm actually on the I hate the last jedi bandwagon
But but it's okay because there's now this film and and that
It's and then they'll throw in some pseudo intellectual bollocks to say how it's how everything's interconnected and intertwined
It's gonna be really interesting to see um
If the people who love tlj are gonna like episode nine like what's gonna happen?
Because it's just gonna be a whole new slew of reviews from all the different people
We know like I wonder if you know quinton reviews if I had everything if they'll love
episode nine, what if
What if chris stuckman gives it a bad review, you know
Jesus what if what if there is time travel?
Like let's
Know it's a bit tangential, but what if I mean that is a massive. Ask paul
There's never been time travel stuff, but a lot of companies when they're they write themselves into a corner
And the writing is all over the shop and they have nowhere to go
They will resort to rebooting a franchise or reworking it by doing time travel
So my question to all of you is what the fuck is gonna happen if they did pull that
That that rabbit out the hat. What the fuck would happen? Well, imagine like, um
aj undoes all of essentially
The last jedi and and maybe maybe not tfa but the last jedi
Let's just say that and then the next three movies that are given to ryan johnson. He's like he like undoes the undoing
He's like no
No, like you didn't time travel. We time travel to prevent you from time traveling to make it so that the tlj did happen 100
Because it always seemed to be the
Like jj made his tfa and then ryan was like I get to make the next one like sad castles and he built his on top
Of jj's I have to kicking it down and then jj was like, okay, okay
I'll make my next one. I get the final sale this trilogy. Yeah. Well fucking time travel asshole
Your stuff never even happened and he's like, there you go. That's the end
There's my big sad castle and then the mom is like, okay ryan you get to make the next three sand castles jj's like, oh
Oh boy, look mom i'm directing that's very good dear look i'm taking a shit on it very subversive
Everyone's expectation and what i'm making a poopy castle mom. I want to ruin star wars. No, I want to ruin star
You can both ruin star wars. Take your turn
We already have a ruined star wars at home you don't play with that one anymore why
Some people are saying in chat that uh, the rebel series that got cancelled did have time travel in it
No way
I guess it's not off the cards for that to happen other people have speculated there might be time travel because john williams has said
Um, then the next film is going to have every piece of star wars music that's ever been made that may not mean
Time travel but it could be mostly if ray's going back in time
You could have duel of the fates and things like that playing to go. Ah, hey remember this bit remember this bit
I'm surprised they haven't used well, they did use it
very
subtly when they had darthmore and solo
But I was like, why wouldn't they have just used that song full on by now?
It's just such an easy way to get fans to go
Wow
Yeah, uh, there is indeed uh time travel in star wars rebels
You can see the clips on youtube they fucking time trap not only that it's done
In and it's an it involves darth vader
Like is it like through the force is it like a machine I don't know I don't know yet
Oh god
Oh shit
Everyone's getting very concerned about somebody rescue somebody from
darth vader essentially
using time travel
Oh boy, I don't want to right travel gonna make everything even worse. Oh, no
There's gonna be time travel, isn't there?
It's gonna be time travel. It'd be impossible. I'm still i'm still in team. It probably won't be but
We'll see who fucking we have team time travel and team not time travel
Those are both horrible now
Walker
Don't fuck with the jedi master, son
Now whether or not this particular story was the one they should have been telling on its own merits
That's a fuck. No other discussion i.e
Do we really want it to be okay for a feature film and a multimedia branded intellectual property franchise?
To make sanctifying the existential righteousness of said branded intellectual property as a life philosophy and acceptable theme
I mean there's definitely yeah, that's what people think about when they watch star wars. You fucking nailed it bob
That's what yeah, that's what everyone's thinking about
Oh, yeah
Does does the word meta narrative come into anyone's heads when watching star wars like what's the percentage?
I'm curious if it goes above one
It starts with a zero then a point and then another zero
Maybe another zero and then a two. I think he's that guy like you go to see the film with a group of friends
And he comes out. He's like guys. Did you catch the meta narrative like?
Um, no, that was shit. Bob. Can we just talk about the actual movie and he's like no
Meta narrative can we talk about the things that happened on the screen?
No, no, we can't do that. No
I will find a way to make this good. I swear I will find a way
He's the type of person who nudges you god, did you get that? Did you get that meta narrative over there? What the
The the the farting monster? Yes. Yes represents capitalism
Yeah, you can you can pull anything in unfortunately, I have to it's very late. I have to go to bed
So thank you for having me on in my ranty ways. It's almost 7 p.m. He has to go to bed
so yes, uh
Enjoy
Movie bob i'm gonna get some bed, but thanks for having me on
And uh, I hope you all have a lovely podcast and a lovely weekend. Thanks for popping in sir
Would I
I am uh, i'm actually
I'm actually gonna take this moment to bow out as well because i've had a bow out bow out
Yeah, i've had a very long day and I have a shitload to tomorrow so
And uh, I have to prepare for our interview tomorrow more
Oh, yes. Yes. Oh, are you hiring cj interview? Is that how you phrased it in your head? I thought it was
I don't know
It was a podcast. Is it live? Is it not? I don't even know. No, I
Didn't think it was live. I thought he's recording it and then he's gonna bow out later
I don't actually know we should probably clarify this with them. Yeah, I have no idea what the world is gonna happen, but
It'll be fun. We'll take care of each other. Okay
Yeah, have you have you said anything about what we're gonna do or shall I say it now?
I don't are we allowed to I don't know
I don't know
Uh, let's not then
We're doing me and maula are going to be talking about a movie that we both shit on
So it's gonna be fun. Yes
It's gonna be fun
Anyway, uh, thanks for having me on again. It's been fun. I can't stand to watch any more of this video anyways, so
I'm doing my it's okay. You're weak. You're good. I'll see you around dude. It's been
Good luck. Good luck with the rest of this shit
See you man. Bye
And i'll take the opportunity to go I have a pp other it oh I was expecting even more losses to the street
Also, I like the icon change jail
Beautiful. Oh, thank you
I don't see it. What do you mean? It used to be ray now. It's not ray
It looks the same to me. It's because you're you're a blind man
No, I
No, i'll show you
Hello
Check the stream rags. She's changed it
Update that's a like out of I know it's work. I know a long way to go
This has been a weird weird was really confusing. I still have the stream open
I think episode 49 is just foreshadowing of how 50 is gonna go with like just randomly bringing in all these different guests
Yeah, it's gonna be like it's gonna be chaos hectic horrible practice. Yeah, me and rags is like training
Yeah
Like getting progressively larger dildos
I don't know if that's but yeah, um um's biggest dildos
All this
Yes
Just gonna oh look. Hey, you got a bunch of high jays in chat and you haven't said hi back to them yet
I I looked and all I saw was jay leave. I was like, okay
Oh, hello jay
Hello
So is everyone ready to finish this horrifying video now not really but go ahead yay
Wait, wait, we should probably start at the beginning to get jay caught up
No
I mean there's definitely a lot of not terribly comfortable arguments to be had on that
We're not even close to late stage
At the moment it is the story that the last jedi chose to tell and I think they do a pretty profound
It's the audio fucked anyone else. We know it's slowed down. Nope, I can understand it
But it just sounds really that's the part that was important. Okay, it's too hard to understand him if he's running normal
So the strategy is that it actually is quicker for us to get through if we slow him down
It's a strategy to deliver so many insane ideas to you so quickly that you don't realize
I don't think that the people who watch movie box videos actually do
Absolve it
Like the shit that he says he says so much shit so quickly. I don't think people people are watching go. Hmm
Yeah, that sounded right
It's like the cinemas and strategy of before people have had time to think about something that's been said. They're saying something else pretty much
I mean if it works
And if he puts the you know, you should trust him in throughout the fucking video then
The bliminal but not really
I don't think I wouldn't say I think they do it on purpose
I think it's probably a format that they found works and that's probably why and they don't realize it
Saying that they're stupid
Saying they're because if you are I agree
Also since when would you have a critical of cinema sins jay? What the fuck?
Um, well i've never really said anything publicly about it, but I i'm not sure they're that good
I've heard from you that you really like his channel. So
I think this is just a facade you have placed upon this stream to sound cool
That's allowed jay have you seen detective pikachu?
No, I haven't I thought it looked awful
Oh as if that's your excuse
Hey hates fun confirmed
Jay is a badman
Anyway, I had I literally had a dream about watching lord of the rings last night by the way
Why why why didn't you continue it you're gonna have to rewatch the first one now, you know that right
I'm gonna have to do that
Whenever I meet you in real life, that's like the first thing I'm in demand. We do is watch all of lord the ring
I understand that I'm gonna lock you in a room and you'll be like actually scared and i'll take your phone away
We'll be like did he live and i'll be like well if you don't hear from him
The job of it considering how difficult of a juggling act a lot of this material is and while I get where wires are getting
Crossed for some people. It kind of still blows my mind that so many yeah, like more than half
I love the idea. Yeah that he's like you guys are just not getting the message. It's like what do you mean?
As if you saw through the fucking fog like come on
I mean, that's one of the few ways to defend a film that so many people hate is just you don't get it
Yeah
That's like the most common strategy I think
I mean he skipped over so many details and ignored so many parts just to make this sound semi-coherent. It's like no
Guys has given its fans without full-on breaking the fourth wall to do so and in terms of whether or not it
Disrespects the star wars legacy in itself in order to get there. Well
Consider the now famous final sequence of the film the kids playing with now famous now famous
I don't remember that scene
Yeah, the budget now famous is a funny way to frame that
It's a new film
I didn't remember it directly after I saw it
What happened after this film came out that made that scene more famous because that's the implication, right?
Unless you like it's now that the film is out the scene is famous
If I said I think if I said to the average person who's seen this film
Do you remember the scene where the kids reenact Luke's sacrifice?
They'd be like
Yeah
Where he where they'd say they just sit on a rock and fall over
I think they would actually be like kids reenact. What do you mean reenact? Like whoa with the little dolls and he's like
Where what kids you're like, well, we don't know their names they were just slaves that rose ditched
There were slaves that they didn't rescue. They left them behind to save the space horses
The movie came out in December 2017, right?
So this video came out in January 2018
So like the only thing thing he can be referring to is just like the film came out and now the scene is famous
Because it was new at this point
It's that it's that it's that quick that famous scene
That famous scene from star wars the last jedi now famous now
It wasn't it wasn't famous what well, no, not before it came out. But then once it did
instant hit
It's like when people describe a brad new film as a classic it's like I don't think you know what a classic is
Which is weird because sometimes when I play video games and they've only
A couple months I think about when it first came out and it's like man the classic experience
Instant class 20 hours with this game
It's like when you're when you're 16 years old, but you want to feel nostalgia
So I remember 2017 I do too
I doubt many others do but I do
Not 2017 is now famous
That was the year before I met rags
Huh, I met you in 2018 was the year before we met hmm
I think so remember
My video for tlj came out on the 22nd
I want to say tlj rage mauler. That should bring it up
Did you guys meet because of that video? Yes, I watched
Was it that one that you found first or was it the tlj critique stuff?
Because you you definitely sent me a message and I was like, oh my god, it's a doggo
Yeah, um
Oh, that was december 20th. I put that out. So I might have met you in 2017
We should have written it down for the law
well
You know what? I guess it'll just be a big mystery
You know 30 years from now. We won't remember it. Anyway, so fuck it or it'll be revealed 30 years from now
Oh my god, we're gonna be old men one day you and I talking about the damn kids and their shitty movies
Don't be like I can't wait rags. I finally remembered what what we met and you're like, oh my god
What?
What'd you see?
Even again, why do we still run this podcast?
Just 30 fucking years
Um
Yeah, i'm gonna head out
Oh like a baby
Yeah
Um like something about this bob guy is just raining
And it did the same thing to wolf and apparently did the same i was about to say bob has got the biggest kill count in the history
of you fat
He makes brains just he's like radiation he's just from the inside out
Shut down like cj vox is like we can take him a high dose each and they're like
Yeah, no, it's been fun thanks for uh coming on for as long as you did
Yeah
It was a pleasure meeting uh re-meeting you guys and meeting new people. You don't have to name them friends. Yeah
Um
Your channel is linked in the description for those who are interested in checking her out
She's got a lot of great stuff
And she will be returning possibly during the 50th episode. You're absolutely welcome to join. Did you just say possumly?
possumly is
possumly, it's the cute way of saying it
um
But yeah, uh, if unless there's anything else you'd want to just say about your channel quick to make people tempted other than that
You're welcome to leave
Yeah, i'm just gonna go i'm not gonna do that for the second time. I mean it's a different video this time so
Or it will be you get a double double plug privileges
Yeah
Everyone will watch the first part and catch it. All right. Well, it's gonna go this fucking bob guy is an asshole
Thanks for popping on good bye
Bob would not kill me bob wins again
He will not kill me
Bobality i've survived an entire two bob videos at this point if I get through this
Were you only watched you on him that damn film robert?
He must be stopped the other one that we covered of him it like hurt wolf sprain
You had to leave because he had a headache that he didn't come back on
It's like bomb is i'm actually gonna go and grab alcohol right now
I'm already fudged tonic in
Go fudge gin and tonic in nice
Oh, yeah, people people highlight. I do have a gas mask
It's kind of unfair to say that I survive it with those don't but yeah, you're not breathing in bob's fumes
basically
That is a good thing
The
End symbolizing the metanarrative of star wars is an enduring modern legend in the earnest sense and maybe
Disney is hoping in the business sense as well. They aren't acting out ray moving the rocks so everyone can escape they're acting out
He signs off with a I think I need to reset the room I may as well do it now because uh
Rags is getting a drink or whatever because I mean too many people have joined and left
Blackness has a ring. Yeah the the watch together
As crazy as that is
Are you guys okay with that or have I offended somebody
I mean you already left and I left as well. So go for it. I would never do that and post another link
I don't know what you're talking about
I'll just click something. That's not a link
I guess we'll wait for good old rag sticks gentleman of the year official video. Oh
What even what even
Where even were we was it 11 something?
Yeah, that's pretty close to the end
It was
Oh, we should wait for rags to come back that poor man doesn't know what's happening
The great part about this is not having to sit through a like a dash lane sponsorship or raid shadow legend sponsorship as well
How could you say that cj had that in his latest video that's what brought it to mind
I thought it was really funny because I can tell whatever someone's gonna promote something like that
They know what it's like to watch it and you can tell he really wanted to step out from the crowd and be like
You know what? This mobile game is not actually that bad. It's like cj. I'm
I got an email from them and I was like
But like the thing I want to do is actually play it and review it before
Like if I if I play it and then review it without
Accepting any kind of money from them. I feel like i'll be the only person on youtube talking about it without being paid
And you wouldn't actually do that. You don't actually want to ever accept a promotion from that
Well, if I play it and i'm like wow, this is actually a good game
Uh, and then I review it and then after the review is done and finished and then they're like, hey
What if they said you've already promoted us? We don't need to pay you shit
But then I would have still made my video i'm like, that's cool, but
If they were interested interested after I reviewed it and was like it's fine. It's good. Whatever
Then I'd take that but
The ea sent me a big old crate full of shit for titanfall 2 when it came out
And they're like you should review our our video game and it had like the helmet and everything with it was fucking sweet
And I was like, okay. I'll play titanfall 2 and it was actually like a fucking masterpiece of a video game
And everyone should buy it immediately if you haven't played titanfall 2 you should absolutely go and buy it
They didn't give me any money. They just gave me shit and there's a review everybody and they gave me copies to send to people
That's such a fucking good game seriously like everyone in chat like I i'm not memeing right now
Titanfall 2 is a masterpiece
You should play it. It is. I've only ever heard good things. Oh, there's a new link. Uh, the watch together was being tizzled
Oh, okay, okay
Casual misogyny who is miss ogene? How come everyone hates her? Mrs. Ogene now
she is
Miss andrew's wife
Luke facing down ren and the walkers the last jedi literally signs off with a final acknowledgement that yes
The new heroes are carrying this forward now, but only because the original heroes made it possible. I don't think that's
at all
That is actually in there, but it's a valid interpretation
Basically, what would the references be for that?
well, so
Ray makes it uh, luke makes it possible for them to escape
And ray luke didn't do anything that allowed them to escape
He was the distraction. That's what they were trying to do
Like clearly that's the clearly that's the story they were trying to tell. Yeah, they fucked it up
But think for a second if luke never actually
Arrived in that place whatsoever
The amount of time it takes for him to go from where leia is all the way down and through that fiery hole
Like the the storm troop
Well, the evil empire people are just sort of sitting there waiting as if they're waiting for like luke to come out or something
um, I guess my point is that let's say
They launched a bunch of ground troopers and they're like we're gonna come get you
And then they're like oh god run to the back of the cave and then ray lifts the rocks like oh we can get out
They're probably the same thing would still happen
Seems and yeah, but that's clearly not what the movie wants you to think even if it's true
You can like just because it fucked something up and it's got essentially it's it's a hole
But you can still see what it was trying to do
and like
That you can you can still fucking out the message from that
But what that luke died to allow a new generation to take over I guess so
But he did
Is that the message? I don't know
I'm asking jay
I mean, that's what bob thinks the message is and I think there's there's actually stuff in the film to support it
Uh-huh. Is there anything? That's even the message. That's a shit message
How dare you raise
Passing the torch is an imperative notion to any culture. Oh i'm fine with passing the torch
It's just it's just the whole thing is framed in this
This disdain for the old characters that it just baffles me
And that these kids who will themselves inherit the star wars mantle from ray fin po rose and all our other current main players someday
Will absolutely still be holding luke leahan and the rest in admiration just like they did
A thank you to the fans for carrying on and a thank you to the veterans for making that's what I got from the last jedi
Thanks for being a great star wars fan
Yeah, um, so he's saying like luke layer and han will be in the memories of these characters going forward like
I don't think so
When does han gonna when does han even pop up other than say he died?
Yeah, man
Like this isn't you know rags doesn't seem far from home. Yeah, they took out the scene. They took out the scene where luke learns of
Han's death like how important do you think that they're gonna treat that?
I don't see it bob. I don't see it
Being carried on again. It's like bob. I believe you are blinded by your own. Does george lucas not have any other quotes
This is because of red. Let me be here. I swear
It's like poachers
Such a good one
Every stanza kind of rhymes with the last one. Yeah, at least that's what I got out of it
Okay, there you go. That's sinister. Why is that the
Trust in conclusion this was the most retarded take i've ever heard about the movie. Um, you just hate women
This must be your first efap
It's not
What's the rest of the minute for
So
Hey gang, here's a question that keeps coming up if your handle is really bob
Where are your movie reviews? Well, my old reviews are in a lot of places
This is slowed jesus christ, let's put it on oh, no, it's not. Okay. Oh my goodness
You'll find the brand new ones on geek.com
That's also your one-stop new source for science
Hang on talk to who underrated villain of the week lady kasandra. I know that one as well. That's like episode two, right?
Who the fuck cares about her?
She's not even that's why she's underrated she's literally a flap of skin that demands people moisturize her
But
She's she's i'd say she's overappreciated more people. There are loads of memes about her, but she doesn't deserve
She's just a fucking wet fart
Yeah, well got movie bob movie god disagrees
You're gonna get ready prepare for your eugenicization
I don't know man. I want to visit geek.com
You can find all my reviews directly by going to geek.com
Your shit's there. I don't want to go there. He's got bob chippa down to beach. It was like
What have you said like bc hipman?
It's the only way he could be a hitman
He'll probably need a new hip soon
regular updates on all my reviews and all of geek.com's other great content by
Signing up for the kick ass newsletter at subs don't do that
ass newsletter do it kick ass about newsletters
Yeah, you you unimaginable bastard oh man
So that was movie bob, uh, what do you guys think
Shit fucking terrible. I want to die. Oh
Well, I don't like to hang out with you guys. You're just so negative
I thought it was a really great take that explored the the idiosyncratic
Natures of no stop cosmolated. No
Renfuels
And anyone who disagrees is a bad man
Also, I have I have memes to show you guys now
But the thing is I think me and rags anyone's will get all of these now because we lost too many of our
Our other peoples. Oh wait, I guess mel's been here the whole time too
Yeah
Thanks. Thanks for that. By the way
Who is that? Oh wait, you guys can hear him too
Oh shit
I mean, I just said it. No, I thought I was the only one who could hear that voice
I didn't
Wow
Always getting poo poo don
But never getting peeped on
Yeah
Don't have to wear into that
Okay
Team the memes are almost prepared
So the thing your memes or things I mean do picture beams
That's great
Hey
Hmm the jay long bones comment did he look like a thumb what are you gonna do he does he does kind of look like a thumb
Wait, did that see that that dude say the emperor was gay as well or something?
I don't I don't know about the emperor being gay, but I imagine the emperor was anti-gay like probably, you know
Why not? He's he's a deformed. He's not a white
That was that was partly. I don't know. There's got to be some way of justifying it. Okay, I can believe it
Anything can be justified if you apply the correct adjacent metanarrative
Speaking of which
Yeah, boy, what a better it only makes sense
You
Can take a lot of tie wood quotes and fuck with them they're great
I want to see people post that out of context
Just be like how did how did this happen?
I was probably a line from season eight, right?
Down would we threat
That should be our currency that's what our bank notes should look like
We've got a roadmap for efap apparently
I
They think i'm putting out tfa part three after the 24 hour if I was that fast
I don't tell
Is that actually him
Is that actually movie bob or is that just well that shows up when you google his name i've seen the picture
Maybe it's like a younger movie bob. I don't know
But
I myself was like is that actually him because it looks a little different than all the other ones
That's a different kind of ugly. We've all looked like this at some point in our lives. Oh, yeah
The cosmic chicken jared goliath and patrick hold up efap before
The cosmic chicken should be the ground on which the giant sister yes
Then we're all standing on the shoulders of cosmic chickens beautiful drawing from valen. Oh, no
Oh, no
It's eerily like it works. I don't know what to say. I'm not trying to be offensive. I'm just saying it works
Yeah, that could be his fursona. Oh, no
Oh, yes in bowl we roast
Mola not working. I am working on videos god damn it. Um, why has mother abandoned us?
They won't be saying it when they get a two hour 40 minute video, will they they won't
Well, it's not two hours. When it's exactly something
Five or six minutes out of out of saying it to watch the video and then they'll go back to saying it
Like it's been it's been a whole day since you made a video, dude
You hack fraud
Um, so anyway that pushes us to our next feature feature film
Um, and it's good that all of us are here because because jay you're familiar with the great tone old. Yes
Yes
You like like metal has not been graced with presence
Should I get another drink? Yes
Okay
I think there are better substances by which to appreciate tone old
I don't know alcohol's pretty good of life. Yeah, what's that? What's that thing that makes you think that like god is real like dmt?
Makes you think god is real. I don't know the bible
No, no, the bible has the opposite what depends on the person I suppose it depends on the person
Game of thrones episode five rages of myth. Well this myth is coming true
Oh shit, it ain't gotta be a myth for much longer. Hmm
You know and and as people said it was a myth the rags will release a video. He's apparently bringing it out tomorrow
Yeah, that's the first myth expelled
Yeah, expelled expelled that's it. Yeah
That's worth some death
I've heard that from herman wine or her what her mind when
The more my hear my her me one. I think that's her me. Oh one
Yes
On mel get your drink already
Can he hear you?
Can't hear us say what you want
Uh, uh, uh
You whoop-dee-doo 20 threes good
Um, you just fucking burned him
What's it like to be shit at video games
That's okay, yeah take that back
Oh jay, you you missed out man. You should have played tikka with us the other night
I'm busy editing my long been would have invited you but we don't like you you can be busy editing along with and also have a life
That's not true
I'm up to an hour which is long for me
An hour
Has anyone here seen another life? Um, I want to ask the chat as well. Anyone in chat. Oh, that's that's your long video
Is all about another life. It's all about another life. It's a full series breakdown
But yeah, that's interesting. All right, anyone in chat. Have you seen another life and if you enjoyed it jay is gonna be very upset
Oh
Well, it depends like on what level they enjoyed it
Because they're like it skirts the line between just bad and so bad. It's good quite a lot
No, oh my god another life is so effing bad
No, the vatican archives don't exist and the life was garbage. No
So bad. No, oh god another life. Why have people seen it? Was it like promoted?
I've never even heard of it really heavily promoted. It was like on the front page of netflix for ages. Oh, that's why I watched it
That was your first mistake jay
Not supposed to watch things be good
Reliably name when that time was you literally referring to like stranger things season one
Stranger things season one bojack horseman
Um, I didn't see oranges new black, but I heard it was okay
Okay
Very small amount of things compared to all of the bad things
Yeah, but isn't that like the first few projects were all good
Um, I don't know
How's the cards?
We're promo pretty hard. We're good and then
Hmm
I have a new drink. I took a pp. I'm ready to go. Who did you take it from? Yeah
uh from my
Okay, well anyway, we're checking out mr. Tonald and I guess he made this video after
He was playing more and more of anthem and you know how it's cool to say anthem sucks
This is called. Yeah anthem almost ruined my summer. That doesn't look much like summer to me
Wow, hey, man, he's about to describe how seasons work. This is like australia
Their summer is like our winter
No, the summer is like a slightly colder oven
I don't know anything about anthem though. Is that right?
I don't think any of us need to we're talking about the uh, the video game not the iron ran
And this is tonald loke. I don't think being on topic is something he does. Okay, awesome
No, no this all this let's go. This is um, this is a australian version of tonald loke. Uh, it's called tonald bloke
Okay
People like it people like get him for the 50th podcast. It's like do you really think I can just
Command that being
Come to ephab. Like do you think that's possible?
He could like bless it with his presence. It's a king to a god
Wait, why am I being shamed?
What did jade? Oh, is it because he hasn't seen something or is it because you watch something bad instead of watching lord of the rings?
That could be it
Oh, yeah. Yeah
I'm all a star wars rebel season four. The emperor is researching time travel
He's so silly but okay
A picture of him at his little like cabin house like tony is an ad game figuring it out on his little computer
Just holy shit that is like daughter is like shit. He's like oh don't say that
Fucking naughty. Anyway
Let's you're a naughty girl. Enjoy this video. Okay
Seasons they come and go some are better than others
What come and go what come and go seasons come and go something better. Oh, okay
I agree
What a great fucking start like you just I agree the seasons do
Hang on. What are the seasons that are better than others? I don't know
Some are better than all of them
You
So that's racist as far as i'm concerned, where do you think you got this footage from
Seasons.com
Probably actually, yeah
I just have free free season footage.com
I remember seeing the beginning of this video being like yeah, this happened
This is such a great beginning to a total video so emotional. I'm so hooked already like i'm up for a roller coaster ride
Seasons they come and go some are better than others the worst season to be a gamer summer
It's the barren wasteland of nothingness
Is what it's not even true the barren wasteland does he say about releases i'm guessing I play on pc
So that's never been true. There's always yeah
Well, isn't he supposed to be a fucking pc game of two. I don't even know what he is
Is something he's from yeah, he's some alien from another world then
I thought we established that he was like the father of the cosmic chicken. No cosmic chicken outclasses everything. No, no the cosmic chicken
No, yeah, it was the cosmic chicken a birth the cosmic egg and from the cosmic egg, uh hatched tonaled
And there's like I believe it's a positive charge of tonaled and a negative one like he like the it
creature and and the turtle
The duality of tonaled yeah, he's like the golem one and the godly one duality of tonaled
One was born from the egg the other congealed in a cave. I can't remember. It's hard to keep the law straight, okay?
And you never know quite which which one you're watching in a video, I guess
I'm all major releases come to a screeching halt as we wait for these desolate hot months to pass
Right around april the industry goes to the full quarantine mode until broktober and the holidays leaving gamers twiddling their fingers or staring at walls
twiddling their fingers
Twiddling their fingers. Well, they're thumbs specifically but their fingers sort of yes people twiddle fingers
Oh fingers
uh
Yeah, aren't they
I think i'm i've heard they are
I've heard they count because you have 10 fingers. Look, I don't think i've ever heard the expression
Sitting there twiddling your fingers. I feel like
This
Sitting that fingering your twiddles. Oh jeez you took it to a different place
thumbing your fingers
October and the holidays leaving gamers twiddling their fingers or also
You never twiddling your thumbs on pc because if you ever are looking for a new game, there's about 10 billion. You haven't played yet
No, it's like it's like if your hands are in front of you
Like you twiddle your thumbs because your hands are in front of you together their fingers your fingers are interlaced in front of you
You've got your arms down on the desk and you're twiddling your finger your thumbs in like a circle
fidgeting essentially
waiting
What does twiddling even mean? Why is it a word that all right? All right
Well jay is a virgin. We have to we have to explain to him what twiddling means
Go for it. We're not going. No, no, we can't this is youtube. We can't talk
Twist move or fiddle with something typically in our purposeless or nervous way
Demonetized
We're staring at walls to pass the time it's best to have a few big games on the best
Staring at walls to pass the time. What the hell?
um
Total what an exciting life that total leads he never replaced games
He only plays the new games once and then he stares at the wall
How does that pass the time doesn't play?
I was gonna say surely that makes it harder to pass the time even though this wall is not interesting compared to that
I could be playing anything
Man, if only the time was going faster, I could look at a wall
Why is he such a straight person
Twiddling their fingers or staring at walls to pass the time
It's best to have a few big games on the back burner going into summer so that you can make it through without driving yourself
To the point of insanity. What the fuck?
Will do you live in where you listen your problem mate? Holy fuck
You know that you can buy games in the summer trying to stave off all first off. That's bullshit. That's not how it works
He's staving off insanity games every month only from humble bundle. Yeah
There's no way that everyone has played all big releases
That's just not a thing or at least not completed. Anyway, there are yeah, there are more games that you could possibly ever play. Yeah
He's talking about staving off insanity because he's played the ball
He's that much of a pro gamer fucking pro gamer. Okay
Poor man anthem was supposed to carry me through this tedious hellhole of a season. What the fuck dude was it supposed to
This hellhole this season
Just gonna have to look at a wall, man
That's the only result you have was anthem fails you
I envisioned myself as happy as I was the day diablo 2 came out
Settling in on this great adventure as I soared through the skies of anthem starting in february
I'd spend the next six months in an orgasmic euphoria
Oh
Why is this a thing
Are you writing that down? Of course he is. That is awesome
in a bad way
What okay, what could what makes good rats? Why is that there?
You said that you need to rewatch this once it's up
our own selves
That's brown table jay. That is brown table that that came wrong
Wait, it's not the video that i've seen is it?
Probably no, it was like an old one. I think
Okay
Is he the one who's got the video that's called like, um
What makes a good art film in the thumbnail as the joker from suicide squad with the word subjectivity under him?
Oh god, I didn't even notice that but that's the video we responded to
Oh, is it yeah, oh, what's the coincidence?
Take us home tonal
Playing my enemies finding epic treasures and hunting down the game's most challenging and engrossing content
My friends and I would be rejoicing in the cycle of never-ending evolving content in a futuristic fantasy sci-fi setting with big dinosaurs
Robots high-powered weapons and the most amazing fast-paced gameplay on the planet little did I know anthem would end up
Wait, what was that? Was that a skip on his video?
I think it just the music stopped for dramatic effects
Like he was gonna use he was making it sound like so great and then he was like
But it wasn't uh, well for me it clearly just like skipped
There was like a skip in the footage or something
Then the most like the audio just paced gameplay on the planet little did I know anthem would end up turning into a big pile of poo-poo
And
Do you think he originally said shit he's like, oh god, I gotta get well, no, I don't want to get them
I don't want to get too much says better say poo-poo
Anthem is a big pile of poo-poo. I can't not write that down totaled. How dare you a big pile of the poo-poo
You
Hell yeah, man big pile of twiddle do do all over the game
Again
Should never ever ever stop making videos
The well of knowledge entertainment. I love you that ruined my plans to be happy this summer
Your only plan this summer was to play a video game
Are you
Right, it was much simple than that. I had a list that said be happy
And that's the root
Damn he crumples up his list which is one piece of paper with one thing at the top. This is
In brackets anthem
This is the way instead I find himself what game is supposed to be to make him happy. Oh my god, this is face
Anthem ruined my plans to be happy this summer. Instead. I feel the cold dagger of boredom stab me in the back every single day
Why has he done this? Why is the footage of him walking around his kitchen? Wake up. I was so bored today
I decided I was going to play league of legends again and get back on the grind of diamonds
I
Okay, you had a you had a good game and you were really proud of it
So you wanted to show everybody that you were super good at league of legends that one time. Okay
How can you be trying to keep up a youtube channel and find yourself in a situation where you just have nothing to do?
understand
Like literally anthem was his only option this summer like all that summer that came out like come on, dude
There are other games
It was like deeply in in death in debt and can only buy one game and now he's fuck
It has to play league of legends again. It's free to play
I just love the idea. He was like I went back to league of like it's a par. It looks at x wife or something
I fucking hate this game
The desperation got so bad that I went to my local walmarts and started rummaging through the discount bargain bin
Go for your fucking steam list you
Yeah, go go to steam and just look at all of the shit that you haven't played yet
Why don't you just ask your friends? Oh, well, I mean if you had well fuck, um
Ask random people on reddit what games they've been playing or something. I don't know
I just picture like
Like a meth addict like scratching his arm while going through all these like bargain bins like I need something anything and you're like, dude
just like
The 45 game is cheaper online. I've been kidding
There I was neck deep in the stink the five dollar discount pc games like hellboy in big rigs
There's no fucking way this happened. I doubt he found fucking big rigs these and these kind of times
In the fucking walmart story, isn't real. This didn't happen
Games he likes that he can play. Just does he don't have any of those? Nope
Oh
My yeah, we all know big rigs there's a bad game
It came out like
Fucking years ago. Fuck me
Maybe just maybe
Can toilet tycoon bring me the sanctuary? I'm sorry
What is happening? What am I looking at? There are so many amazing games to play dude
He went for toilet tycoon I guess because he wanted to make a joke good job totaled
It's funny because it has poop in it
I'm looking for
What are you doing with your life what are you doing
What you poor man don't kill yourself video. That was funny, but I can't tell if it was ironic or not
Such a bizarre man
Holy shit, someone save me. Why are you playing all these horrible games?
Okay, I think we know why he's playing this game let's see if this one's gonna be good
Is he just like looking for some of the worst games of all time now are these even on pc like
Yeah, this has got to be a this has got to be yeah
Is it as if like the I guess this this is just the midpoint. It's gonna be like a rising point here
Oh
Genuine question. Do you think he thinks his audience is going to think that this is all true?
I don't know. I think some of them would believe it
And that he would believe that some of them would believe it I don't know
I don't know where this video is going
Oh my god
Have you looked at the top of the comments?
No way
The top comment. Uh, well the top comments are just like the hate mongers of the toxic brood stand behind you lord captain admiral tonals
Really?
Yeah
Lord captain admiral
That's the the second uh top comment
One month ago
And it was just a reply that says but anyways guys
but anyways
I like to think that 60% of his active audience are now efappers
Join more of us he's our favorite content creator we all
desperate to see new videos
Praise tonal
Okay, so how about don't trail the dolphin three?
I mean three games means that the first two must have been great. This game has to be good, right?
Okay, everyone go find that comment. Don't don't do anything else. Don't post anything there. Just find that comment and thumb it up
It's right under the video
A world of jade greenery great mountains i'm scared right now i'm legit scared
Is this when total is trying to be creative is that what's happening? I don't know
Oh
Kill me. Wait a second. Holy shit steam is having a sale
That never happens
Wait steam has sales well as if uh, oh hey bubble pie
Look at all those games give it any original sin is 27 dollars. What a steal
What is he trying to do with this video? What is happening?
So the first thing I did was pick up portal two for 99 cents, which is the best deal ever
You know, you might play portal two
Everyone has played portal. I haven't played portal two. Oh rags you gotta play pole too. Oh, yeah, i'm sorry
But you don't exist anymore
I played it. I just didn't care
Well, that's no excuse no, yeah it is
Jay is shunning you rags. What are you gonna do about it?
Hmm jay is shunning you are you gonna do anything about it you're gonna do something? Oh, I mean celebrate grab a drink one
Watch world rings. This is a lot of options you got
I then proceeded to buy bro force for three dollars 74 which turned out to be these are all games that came out ages ago
What the fuck you could have gotten these anyway, I don't understand. This doesn't match your stupid story about how there's nothing to play
That's not you can
Still there aren't any free to play games on steam
I refuse to believe he had nothing in his library that he could play
I can get it emulated
One of the best co-op experiences I have ever had and mirror
Which is the game about hot
Naked
Enemy is not naked
She's not yeah, she's not naked. She's she's she's
Given it a I mean, this is a starting point if anything
She's getting this on her half vagina
Does yours not have one? Oh, it has the normal number it has three
Chicks match three puzzles and bondage
What's happening this has been the most bizarre collection of everything in the video ever
Um
Yeah
No for real though. This game actually has a really entertaining story and it's it's quite good
I'm serious. Look at the user score. Just don't show it to the kiddos. How did I miss out on one shot?
One shot is one of the most
Heartwarming cute and lovable stories ever portrayed in a 2d adventure game. Honestly, I cried
I'm not gonna say anything else go
He does feel okay you monsters he does feel unblind and have your mind blown
Another puzzle game I picked up was the room created in 2012 and the room is actually pretty awesome
Yeah, I have heard on my phone
Good shit for the price of a handful of jolly ranchers
You can get your hands on a great brain teaser with a nifty aesthetic the success of this mystery puzzler
Or I can have a bag of jolly rangers three which are also critically acclaimed
Caution the enemy is approaching
Well shouldn't about this game
Is you gonna talk about this one you think what is happening I don't know i'm so I don't know what to say even
like
Things happening on the screen. I'm just getting more drunk. Look at disturbing ramble
Goddamn triple a game fooled me again back to the good games battle block theater
Though it does feel like this is probably the most real i've ever heard him be
Good way. Yeah, it's kind of
We're making up a fake story about his summer. Well
Yeah, but like compared to the fucking clinical way. He usually does his videos where he's like, yeah anthem is a game
But in this one he's like trying to make jokes really badly he like oh look at him go
That's all bad
Contender for the most brilliant indie game ever. Okay. So brt is a theater comedy platform game
Where you run through obstacle courses for the amusement of a gang of devious cats
The opening scene is three minutes of pure gold now one fine morning hatty and pal set out for a new exciting adventure
Everyone was screaming like happy splat splats and there's this huge whale like it's actually pretty fun
I played that game. Yeah, I've only heard good things about battle block theater. It's it's really funny
Hilarious fun great modes poop jokes and co-op that ruins
Since we're on the trend of puzzle games. Baba is you the game where fart sounds play whenever you move
I'm, not sure. It's a great game the witcher. He really likes his poop jokes. Holy shit
The law is a man of culture
Three game of the year edition 15 bucks just saying how does one describe return of the over den?
It's a three-dimensional two-color palette mystery puzzle game that takes place on an indian merchant ship with a unique art design and
Where everything is a clue you wonder the ship with a book and a pocket watch to ascertain the fate of the ship's 60 crew members
And passengers by examining their final few wait is the point of this that anthem
Almost ruined his summer and the these games saved his summer. I guess
That's what i'm gathering
Oh look at all those awesome games. I could get on the steam sale. You've probably never heard about what
All right, so he just like he put anthem in so that people would click on it. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's that's it
All right, we cracked it well
All right a few moments with the pocket watch you can identify them and the cause of their demise
This is my favorite mystery detective game alongside new are which also happens to be 65 off tie the ties
Yeah, but it doesn't work for some people because the fucking social club gets in the way
And so you have to pirate it like I did to make it work properly even though you bought it
Allegedly
Minion tiger the only platform game where you can ride on the top of a big-ass gorilla and blow up motorcycles with a rope
Sign me up
More boobs
Celeste's touching story perfect controls and satisfying puzzles may remind you of games that you've played before but then proceeds to blow them out of the water
That's what games are supposed to do
Take something that we all know and love and build on it so that the end product is better
Celeste raised the bar in that fashion and then some
Just when you think you've got the hang of the game
It'll throw some sort of curveball at you. It starts off pretty easy and then you think to yourself
Okay, this I got this but then it ramps up to ludicrous levels as the game goes on
Man that's fucking ludicrous
What a strange boy
I think this is what happens when he's like he's he's told to do whatever comes to mind like you just
This is an utterly bizarre video
What
If you're anything like me your death counts when you finish the game is going to be in the hundreds
But every challenge is fair. I would argue the controls are so precise that if you die
You can't help but blame yourself. So it doesn't really feel that bad
Despite the low pixel count as well Celeste looks fantastic
These games are really hard to get right you can find plenty of good indie games on Steam and some of them do a lot
right, but Celeste does
Everything everything all for the turn
Despite the low pixel care list if that wasn't a stylistic choice, I guess
Like
Okay, let's find triple a game
Okay, I think i'm going back to celeste this game sucks great game wait what
Okay
Why does it say okay can get even cheaper though rain world is one of those games
It's strange. You play as this cat that has to survive in this vicious ecosystem of hunters and hunted
You're dropped into the world with no explanation say for a couple moving pictures
Expected to figure out where to go and what to do. So you scavenge around for a bit
You try to find something to eat then you get killed all the time. Nothing makes sense the rain
What a weird pitch for a game what is happening
What is this game is this true like what he's just said about all of this I
I'm my mind is getting blown. I'm trying to like what is one of those games
It's strange you play as this cat that has to survive in this vicious ecosystem of hunters and hunted
You're dropped into the world with no explanation say for a couple moving pictures
Expected to figure out where to go and what to do. So you scavenge around for a bit
You try to find something to eat then you get killed all the time
Nothing
I can't believe he just casually says like a world of the hunters and hunted with pictures to explain stuff
But you don't really get it you're a cat. Also you died. You're like what is happening?
Huh?
Oh man, I sure want to play it right now
Like honestly, this is probably the most bizarre pitch for a game I've ever heard because i'm just like, uh, it sounds like it's something
I don't know
This does this is a game giving this is the pitch to like the potential developers who might pick up the ip
Before the game was made this is what they were told. It's like this is what we're trying to make
Okay, he's like you don't know what's going on your cat you die. He's actually reading this directly from the description in steam
It makes sense the rain will come down. You have to hibernate or something
It's frustrating to figure it out
But I will tell you that rain world is one of the most fascinating little gems out there that you should
Yes, its beauty is what he hasn't lost all of his like weird fucking intonations
Outbounce the game is almost entrancing to some extent to look at with its dynamic music
Creative screen design. I can't
The game is always entrancing to some extent to look at whether it's almost transiting to some extent. Thanks. That really
That helps
Almost transiting to some extent. Oh, thanks
Blenny you just have to play it. I want to go back to here and say that no, don't go back
Tell you that rain world is one of the fascinating
Little gems out there that you should not miss its beauty is without bounds
The game is almost entrancing to some extent
The game is almost entrancing to some extent
Beauty is without parents to other extents to some extent
Oh beautiful stuff
To look at with its dynamic music score and creative screen design. I can't explain creative screen design
Yeah music score right you just have to play it a game doesn't have to have a million pixels on the screen to be beautiful
All the games have the same amount of
Doesn't have to have a million pixels
Film a waggon's quote right there. It's on your resolution, doesn't it?
Not so much the game but what resolution you set it to
It sounds like such a like a parent tells their child that you don't have to have a million pixels to be beautiful
It sounds like the fucking
motivational quote at the end of like a disney movie about games that come to life is it sounds like
Fucking from the end of wreck it ralph. They would say that
Rain world demonstrates that a game can present a mood and an aesthetic that is so powerful that it draws you in without needing
Any bells and whistles rain world is phenomenal yet
It's strange physics and controls and difficulty will likely turn off many people before they give it a chance
But anyone who stuck with this game will probably agree with me that it's something truly special
Undertale could quite possibly be the best game for 10 bucks ever
It's one of those games that is impossible to explain. You just have to experience it for yourself
I just want to for me to go mom. That's all I want
Life-changing game that becomes quite the mind fuck as it begins to break down the fourth wall and do all this crazy shit
So you're left wondering what the hell is going on half the time as you cycle endlessly in a state of paranoia
Excitements and downright confusion
The only thing I could possibly relate it to is the feeling I got when I played earthbound back in the day
Kind of maybe a little bit tuesday these games for me represents a willingness to take chance something expensive triple-a games
Often never do when I look at a game like mekazoo or ukulele
I ask myself a simple question would I rather be playing rayman mario or donkey kong instead and the answer is every single time?
Yes, what?
Just because you prefer one game over another one doesn't mean that you shouldn't ever play a different game. What the hell?
I prefer bad because it was ukulele. That doesn't mean I didn't want to play ukulele
Why totaled it's a pretty fun game but mid-tier platformers in particular
Are a very tough sell when others do the concept so much better a better option for the indie platformer
Is a hat in time everyone says that throwback in 64 platformer where the discount does not cut at all into the quality
The hat in time is a little rough around the edges, but the trade-off is platforming. That's just plain fun
Adorable art style check good voice acting and funny characters check great level design and levels check of a million pixels
What
Delightful music. Yep. If I had to choose between this game and super mario odyssey you say music twice
What why does he have to choose between this and mario odyssey what?
Who fucking knows this is fucking insane
There are two different systems as well or well, I don't know if hat in time is on switch
But you have to choose between everything and mario odyssey
Is it better than mario odyssey that's the question everyone has to answer before you eat your lunch
You're like would I rather eat this lunch or play mario odyssey?
That's the scale by which we all compare
Taking into consideration the cost factor a hat in time wins every single time
Oh, so you're saying it's better than mario odyssey when you consider cost, okay
Um i'm enjoying hearing these sounds
And god screaming random screaming hooray
Which is an interesting spin on the metroidvania game because well, it's underwater
So there's no real platforming if you want a more modern version. Oh, that's it. You can try out
Oh, no, it is
And clank like you have like some games where it just goes on for like a minute and a half
Once where he goes metroidvania on the wall. Bye. It has pixels go on next me
This game has pixels too, whoa
It's metroid but underwater next
Get in and then you get out with a short and expensive and more importantly unique
Experience just like games like dead cells and yuku's island express two very nice games that are also incredibly unique
What the fuck does nice games mean?
It was a nice game
Is it a friendly game?
And cheap at the same time metroidvania games in particular also come in much more derivative forms such as the recent blood stained ritual derivative
Damn
At least making fun of blood stained. What do you say that?
Did you make fun of it that it's like derivative of metroid games?
I actually don't know what it means
Actually, I think I might be mixing up derivative with iterative. So he's probably not what I thought he said
dig
regative
Dictory of what like came from another thing rather like iterative is when it's like
Comes from it and does worse typically or whatever. I need to remember what my words mean
Always derivative of bad
I think so one way or another blood stain was awesome. There you go case fucking solved
This title is really good and as classic as you can get it
So if you're looking for something outside the box, this is not
You got to be real picky though with this genre as it's mostly filled with mediocrity
From sunder to chasm and many many more metroidvania games often leave
Much to be desired should you not pick out the best of the best by being selective in waiting out the storm of shit
You can you said the shit one amazing, but he said poo poo alias
Experiences like katana zero lisa the painful or slay the spire you can even get a game for free
That's actually good. Like neon you can get a game for free. That's actually good
Like he says it like we're in the world where you can possibly play a game for free now. That's any good
Nope, they exist. I know it doesn't look like much. But hey, it's all about the gameplay
We can't play zelda god of war mario year round because they're rare
There aren't enough of those games to run this over and we can't put a little shit ton of games that are of that tier man
You can't put a price tag on quality
You literally can
I thought that's what he just established
You can't put a price tag on quality. You literally can you could sell things for one to sell them
That's like that's how this works. Have you ever been to a store and seen like one thing that's like
Oh, let's say it's like five pounds and then one thing it was ten pounds and put there the same product
But one is a higher quality like brand well, yeah, but I thought that was his point
It's like we can't always have these games because you know, they're of quality
They said you can't put a price on quality
That's what they do. Those games are expensive
Doesn't count
Wait, I swear. That's what he said
That's what I mean though. I can do those games to hold this over and we can't put a price tag on quality
What you can't put a price tag on quality. What does he think he said?
I
Think he I don't think he knows what he said
I I think he like I don't think he's conscious. I think he takes all of his actions like as instinct
I know this is controversial. I'm gonna say it. I don't know that he's making a lot of sense
What look I I didn't mean to you know, I take that back. I'm sorry
Oh, so we have to look towards these cheap
Like
Remasters of games we once loved to fill in the spaces between yet that search still Jesus Christ
Did you just like do nothing but play video games at all times, you know, what else is there to do?
It's a streamline. He's got to put the the place he resorts to remasters
But he's like, oh we're running low on you releases gotta get the remasters
Once they're done like go back to older games, I don't know man. He is literally talking about it like he's an addict. Yeah
What else are you supposed to do in summary if I can play video games still filter through all the trash
Down here worst of all there's much more to swim through to find the game. You're actually looking swing clearly is not trash you piece of shit
So I managed to find some treats and steam's summer sail to tide me over until broketober
I guess I didn't need you after all old buddy anthem
We only scratched the surface today though
This is a list of many more games on steam that'll help you get through this boring ass summer. It will what the hell?
Will help you get through lots of nuttakers there by that one people like people like subbers have sex or something
I just love the idea. He's like
Summer's come around again guys. We're gonna skip this shit as fast as we can
We linked in the pin comments as well as a description so you can check it out
That was so clever, you know when he said that after he wrote he fucking nailed it
Just wants to yeah wants to sound more alive. Okay, he wants to get into it
So you can see the price and see if it interests you david. He was says I love this new downward thrust
You're looking having a great time
He featured a comment saying I love this
Uh, this is the this is the changed version that he promised I think I'm actually seeing it here more than ever. Yeah
It's so different. Yeah, it's it's like it actually does feel like you put a soul in a robot
And it's not sure of what the fuck is happening anymore. It is saying things like
Thanks, david, I really appreciate it. This is the first thing total did when he achieved style going forward
I will be reading the most liked comments at the end of each video from the private
You'll be reading the most like oh, yes. We have to get to the top comment guys
Is that what he said the most liked? That's what he says
This is his newest video. Uh, I don't know
Is he still doing that? Do it if it's a meme you have to make it a meme
Oh, we got to make it a funny hand, but i'm gonna go ahead and guess he didn't keep up doing that
Yeah, I just scanned through his latest video he doesn't do it in that one
Oh
Donald we thought you changed one two three four five six seven. There's like nine videos
In between dude his newest his newest video is called the rise and fall of the first person military shooter
Uh, it's it's eight minutes
Oh that you know, that's enough
Yeah, that's it. I wonder does he even start with
Oh, yeah, it does seem that he talks about doom for at least five seconds. Good. Good. All right. Yeah
It's just like it rose
Stayed for a while. It was a game. I don't know fuck off
Million pixels share your thoughts on whatever the hell you want. Thanks for watching guys. Take care. I'll see you guys next time. Peace out
Peace out
Since this was just like a random
Tonal video and one of the top comments on it was the hate mongers of the toxic brood
um
you know
Stand behind you lord captain admiral tonaled. I kind of want to check his other videos now to see if they've got comments like that
I I leave one every once in a while if I see it like it's just just come on i'm like
Oh, yeah, i'll leave a supportive comment about the toxic
My favorite part about that is that it was already top comment that means like so many of the people there
came from efap
I'd like to think that we've really developed his fan base
I wonder if he has any patrons because of efap
No doubt
Well, yeah, he has I know he has at least one because of the so i've uh
I've clicked at another random video and one of the top comments says I hope you didn't say the n-word on that bridge tonaled
Oh, yeah, so that that that's quite the the sort of
opposites
episode of efap to cover movie bob and tonaled like
It's talking about by cleansing the palette, you know
I guess like who would you rather force to listen to for a day?
Okay
I'm not i'm not here to get the answers wait between who and who uh the people we cover today. So tonaled
Um tonaled don't refresh final is just a mystery box that rarely disappoints
And then
Movie bob's like a box that if you ever open
He's just a box of cancer and you know exactly what you're gonna get you're gonna get cancer. You just don't know which one
Movie bob is like a box of cancer. You always know what you're gonna get
Well, yeah in that case, I guess it's time to read swapper charts
Uh, a lot of these are going to be from the previous one, but we will remember the context
Bad rats steal our military secrets bomb our ships traffics kids to blackmail our congress and industry controls media and has us to pay for it all
Apparently that's what defines an objectively bad rat. Oh, man
No, uh, hi rags, hello, I mean it doesn't it make sense to you
Um, okay, i'm not hearing a no
Hmm
Oh, that's
Sort of in the i'll do more memes when we get towards the end just build a new one right now. Anyway, um
Uh, hello mauler. Love you too. Hello. Have fun. Hey mauler
Boulder boy has been trying to get into the weeb wars slash vic situation except no one on either side wants
Him and make fun of him. I mean I wonder what matt is going to try and do
The claw at a bit more of influence again, you know
Yeah, his strategy seems to be continue making terrible decisions, which is a bold one to take though not unexpected
A jack saint objectivity video. I don't really want to cover jack saint. I don't
Not in the the I think it was enough that we had two full streams on his uh his video for me
like, uh, we don't really intend to cover eric taxon about rags unless the video is like
Because you know the way it worked with tro we took how long like seven months to cover that one
and ridiculous
That worked out. Well, didn't it rags? Uh, it was like people like
Dispel it and then we did and then
It didn't really do anything because the video's still up and people still use it as like a fucking hate magnet for you
So it's like oh cool
All right. Well, you can't take it down if it makes you money
um
As for yeah jack saint's objectivity videos like we've got I think i've already got two other videos to do with objectivity
We're covering in the in the 24 hour one
Like and we did just rights one like I don't want to cover too much of it
We'll be fine. I mean, I know people want us to cover digi bros got a video on how you can't be objective
We'll have plenty of ways to explore the topic. I hate how people just pass on their failings to us
Like thanks a whole lot, bro
More and more. Thank god you back. You won't believe what happened while you were gone
They found out satanic paid you zionists glow in the dark and saudis run the world with blackmail. Please don't leave again
Oh, I don't know what to say about that. Glad we sorted that out
capitalism hoe
How's the thus both the super chat and the name of the profile?
Oh, man, wait, is that hoe as in man's got a message like land hoe or like a hoe h o
Oh, that's disappointing
Just some support move along
Just got out of dora and the last city of gold for my little sister misogyny handbook is used because someone calls a girl boring
Oh really cj is gonna have to review that clearly misogyny handbook
Really? Okay. I thought it came naturally
I mean, yeah, we all in from a book
Hey guys, I love what you do
Just wanted to know if you ever watched the half-life 2 commentary by gammy goose great old school long-form commentary
No, I have not
Uh, mr. Mulea mulea here. What is your take on the uh hill house final episode?
I found it brought down the series and killed the horror also. Why haven't seen it yet?
Well, I can be
You really should have seen that by now. What the fuck you started that series like what I met. I know I know I know
so much
Don't worry. I'll spoiler free. I was not
Happy with the final episodes compared to how amazing I thought the rest of the episodes were and it's
a matter of will building and
A couple of other things to be vague i'll be making a whole series on hill house one day
I know that one day can be years, but definitely gonna happen. I love that show. Are we gonna watch it again?
Yes, i'm on board of watching it a million times
And as for why why season two season i'm okay with season two because season two has got nothing to do with season one
It's apparently a whole brand new story brand new characters. It's just that it's going to be the same creators
And i'm like go for it. I really loved your work. So
Yeah, don't worry
It's kind of like a american horror story how it's not necessarily connected each season as far as i'm aware or like black mirror
Um, I demand you get god empress jesse milestone on
We've got a long list to guess we need to get um star wars gill on as a guest as well
Oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah, we can finally have our second female
Hmm our second female. Mm-hmm. Well, oh, there's j who else?
Um
That one we had today, so that's two females. Yeah, you're right. Oh, yeah, that's right cj was on
I think dangerously there is the one who is always the woman in the meme
Oh, that's stallsgills in chat hello. Hello, you're gonna be our second female
Um
Did you guys watch the new tarantino film every scene without brad pit was a slog but I love the film's handling of women
Especially in the last scene where one of my favorite songs started to play
All right. I have not seen it yet, but
same
We'll watch it eventually and then we'll talk about how it was objectively likable or not
Oh
We all know the y-wing is straight because the engines make two prongs one for pink and one for the stink my
Oh, yeah boy
Since x-wing can't do that. It's gay
Well, I knew it ryan. Oppenheim with with the explanations
Uh, wish me a massive birthday tomorrow writing forever
All right, zack polido. Hope you have a massive birthday
Um, hello all my massives. You should check out the movie tune stone with wolf
animation isn't the best
Yeah, animation isn't the best but the characters and voice acting is great. Also, check out a stardis
If you get arch war hammer on efap
We love a stardis
What is that again?
It's it's a fan-made film about space marines and stuff. Oh
Very good. It's fantastic. In fact, it's like
Some of the best stuff on youtube. I would say
Um
Is ray avatar a women or a low tj clone?
Oh for when she has a ray
Oh, I see what you mean big efap. Welcome to them. Either way. Did I mention we love the 19th amendment here?
Oh, yeah, that's
Does that a lot that's raw? You'll
Uh, did you read my super chat?
I've been right. I don't think I've missed any let me
Maybe that's the super chat they were referring to
It's meta. That's a meta narrative. Let me just i'll just load them all up from today and control f. What was the name?
Oh great i've lost my
Oh, yeah, yeah, his one was rags you didn't buy kenchi you dummy
I read that before i'm not dumb. I know to do it. I just haven't done it yet
Um, get lindsey ellis on efap. She's blocked me on twitter. I'm pretty sure she thinks i'm the devil
So it's not gonna happen. She's super galaxy brain. She's welcome to come on
Is that because you said she was really reaching with that interpretation?
No, she blocked me before that she blocked me before i'd even like interacted or seen anything from here on twitter
Then how did you reply to the tweet?
You can reply to tweets without
being unblocked
huh
This is the thing you can quote people were like
You know like oh, she's blocked me and i'm like, yeah, she's blocked me too. I just could quote tweet people who blocked you
I love it when people's responses to like block people who criticize them
That's the one that won't see it's good thing when critics do that
I don't think that there's like never a time where you should block somebody. I haven't blocked anybody on twitter yet, but
Uh blocking pre-emptively blocking people that's interesting. Wait, did she block you?
She apparently didn't she say that she had no idea who you were. Yeah, she did it. Well, this is the thing
She's got blockchains. I think i'm i've been hit by a blockchain a part of which I wish she'd adopted
She's super intellectual. She uses a blockchain. What's a blockchain?
So like some tag shit you'd be like, uh block this person and anyone who follows them
So I probably for example, it could be like the fact that I follow sargon or or fucking
Who else is controversial that she probably hates?
me
You're not on twitter you got banned
Yeah, but it could have been a result of beforehand, right? It actually yeah, that's actually possible. Um, that's stupid as fuck
Well, this is the thing. I follow h bob a guy
Imagine it was like, you know
Unblock them if they follow him simultaneously
You have to give it like there's plenty of people who follow trump to keep track of his shit
If you know what I mean, nope, that means they support everything he says like I wonder how it works exactly
But yeah, apparently she has no idea who I am. So it was interesting to see that she'd blocked me but that's how it works
They're about to know people to restrict them from seeing anything you do
I forced my girlfriend to watch the ot after she told me tlj was the only star wars she'd ever seen
She's now as upset as everyone else with tlj. Well, that's actually interesting
Watch tlj first
No, and then watch the ot and to see what the reaction is interesting good. The world is as it should be now
Uh for those that don't know several of us from maulers discord have gathered to make a tribute video for wolf
Just expressing that his content is not dead
Expressing his content is also we love him all hail wolf ad efap. Um
Yeah
If you send it over on twitter, I can I can um
Check it out and pass it along at some point
Mola, may I have your permission to use clips of your voice to make an ironic emperors new groove critique also high rags
Hello
Yes, I guess I don't know what the plaid is with that but go for it. Um
Uh guys after reading all of ryan dawson's work on eppstein's operations
I went to watch the tarantino film and there was a trailer for a film about three little kids playing with sex toys watching
Porn doing drugs, etc. Very disturbing
Anyway, all the producers writers directors for the film are jewish totally irrelevant
Rah you're a strange man. I never know what to make of your super chats. Um
Rags, I keep saying it. Please. I will pay you if you sing akbar's theme to finish out efap 50 grace us with your beautiful rendition
You massive
Akbar's theme. I don't know akbar's theme how many times we have to explain. I will I will tell you
Uh, I will sort that out. Okay, it's fine blue jay. He'll get there
Uh, is there a character death that ruined a movie or tv show for you?
Yeah, luke
And both figuratively killing his character and then actually killing him
Uh was running this stream part of your plan
Yep
My question is that what does that mean?
That's a really odd question actually. Yeah, was it part of your plan? What plan part of god's plan youtube plan?
I love god's plan. He's so fucking amazing that god guy i'm gonna say. Yes. It was a part of the plan
Uh, hey rags. Do you know how to not?
Uh, can you spell that n-o-k-n-o-t? Yes
Yeah, I was gonna say I was a boy scout I'm an eagle scout I learned many many knots you think you'd specify a knot
But no just I know my way around a sturdy rope
New efap looks like playing my tuba has to wait. Oh, no, that's an interesting way to say it. Why not do both?
Um day long bone you massive i'm still cringing from last night's stream good to see you back on efap
Yay, I guess I don't know if that's referring to the previous efap or a stream she did either way. Excellent
Uh, so target talking was essentially a byzantian thematic strata goss
General
It all right. I fall like us
maligos
Quickly think of another dragon. No
That's not like it doesn't end in goss though, so you've ruined it fine cyanagos so no that's cyanagos shit
Finally caught up to all episodes took me a month
Um, oh, yeah, the efap.me is down. So the guy who runs efap.me
if you
Uh contact me on twitter or discord. We'll try both. Um, if you're having trouble
With funds to keep it up. I don't mind i'll pay for it
Um, just let me know in case because uh, it was a really great little site
We liked it a lot. We love the website. We want to keep it going like we seriously want to keep it going
Hope i'm assuming it's not been lost or anything
I don't know how websites work with like buying them and send them up and stuff. So but yeah, just just uh
Drop me a line as they say. Um grand mon mothra tarkwin homosexitism
I
Don't want to say that uh distracted baited is such a perfect descriptor for our come brain population of bug people
Okay
Ending soon short man bad that was about the previous stream. So
Clearly not. Oh my god. I just read up on wolf being gone
I'm deeply saddened really appreciate his content also rags really needs at least a minimum of two adults to supervise him
Well
Does jay count if metal and jay are together that counts as one adult, right?
I I guess yeah, no, that's good because with a retard you only need one together. We can form an adult like a voltron
Yeah
Uh, if you thought
If you thought top gun was about planes and not volleyball and kenny loggins you're wrong
I remember the volleyball scene
Uh c3po is a sexy man obie baggins by the way. Hi rags. When is the tfa series?
Um next year around august dude i'm never gonna be able to get it done that fast
You could have just said 10 years
um
Subject to change carnival row will be on amazon prime video on august 30th
The dark crystal show will be on netflix the same day. Check them out. All right
Uh, have you massive scene or read the secret of nim quick thoughts if so
I know of it, but I haven't seen it. That's that movie by don bluth
Your opinion does that have is that uh, is that a good rat?
Well, I haven't seen it so I wouldn't know jay hmm, I haven't seen it
Also, uh, just just an addendum it says hi rags i'm not sure what that means hello. Hey
There you go
What a friday showing you need to give us working plebs more time to prep ourselves for your work day's worth of content
I apologize. We don't choose these things
Apparently the romans worked out
Objectively what the gayest thing you could do from what I remember. It's when a guy sucks another's balls, I think
Really?
I was like gayer than like
Half the sex things. Yeah, I feel like half the sex things. What do you mean?
I mean like you know, how like there are fractions
No, what do you mean?
So i'm saying that like if you were to have like a sex with a with a man
Being a man yourself. Yeah, then I think there are a lot of things that you could do
During that experience that would be gayer
Than going on the balls like what?
like uh
Entering his anus fully so you're in there like like a cave
Like a cave. Yeah, so like you've got a torch you're looking around you're like you're climbing through
I know I can get hob back there, but I think then like you find you find none here. Oh
There's a little goat man that comes out of my anus
His name is mr. Tumnus. Is this animated or is this like a fleet feature length film? Oh, this is definitely feature length
I want it to be a tv show, but all right
Um by rags goodbye. That was a good night. That was the last one from eve at 48. So
Um, I had to leave fenna's stream. I hope you're proud of yourself. Well, it is fenna. Um,
I believe I can't remember if you met fenna fenna was the one that um
Me and fenna debated alien and aliens for a while. I think
Yeah, we'll have them guest
On here at some point. Um, have you seen the film last action hero charles dances in it? Yes
Uh, al shul sneaker is also
Everyone should see it. It's a goofy film, but it's fun
Um
What's the difference between aids and crossing clinton's crossing the clinton's
Getting aids is no longer a death sentence. Yeah
All right
When's the how yeah actually is that true
Oh, yeah aids isn't necessarily going to kill you I thought like it'd inevitably kill you
No, we can treat it. You get hit by a bus
I mean technically yeah, if you get hit by a bus then you get aids. Well, I don't know if you get hit by a bus
If you get hit by the bus you get aids
Yeah
You get hit by the aids bus. Oh, no
Can someone listening please draw the aids bus
No, don't draw the aids bus you don't need it's too late you've already said it it's fucked
They're too weak in the mind jay using reverse psychology I like it
Uh, what's the difference with oh, sorry, when's the house party let's play house party let's play house party
Is that a game or
House party is a game, right?
I
Sounds like a thing a game would be called unless they're referring to something else. I'm the game i've got in my head
Well, I just typed unless they're referring to an actual house party
Yeah, I was gonna say that could be it too. I don't know. Um, it's no man's guy at the front of steam right now
Why not?
Because I think it just got bad
Do you deserve aids if you're hit by a bus?
Yes, does it taste like a 2.0 update or some shit?
Well, yeah, and by the way from what I have heard
Uh, no one's guys got a whole lot better. Yeah, like if it is not terrible or anything
House party looks like a strange game. You're a strange game
Oh, yeah, well, that's because you've never had a house party. So all of them will seem strange
Actually, I had a house party when I was 15 and then all the guests left. That was last year though
Who told you that
Well, how many illegitimate children do you have and if the answer is zero when you're going to own up to being a raging massive
Oh, right. Yeah, and if I don't have any bastards, i'm a gay
I was the real military general
I will not confirm or deny his objective tactics. I'm shroding as gay. We'll never know
Movie binge update am I a dum dum for having edge of tomorrow as my new favorite movie of all time?
Why am I making me feel dum dum, but why it's why am I so why am I making pretty good points against the film?
Honestly, but that was back. I remember watching his video come out when I was in university. So that was back in his mall
good tisms
Like you know, I like his edge of tomorrow video
I remember being like oh the film was not as good as I remembered it to be being but you know, it happens
um
Oh, yes part two is here
Hello long man. Sorry. I missed 48 because of sleep. No pro blame. Oh, that one should be going up relatively
There'll be a couple guys. I haven't still haven't uploaded it yet. So still gonna have to process and everything but
They shall come to moolah
Hello mademoiselle length calcium. How does it feel to know that wamen with heels tied to her skull likes your content?
What woman with heels tied to her skulls likes your content
Women with skulls tied to her heels heels tied to his skull
heels tied to her skull
I
Don't know who this is an avatar. I should be familiar with maybe
I am happy that people with heels on their skulls like it
Wait, someone in chat said shoe people saying shoe on head. Oh, is that her? I don't know. I don't know that
Oh
Mademoiselle length calcium is jay long bone I guess
and ah and and and shoe on head like so
but
Eels tied to skull is not like all right
Like that's not quite what I imagined you would have but fine
Um, yeah, i'm not sure that was a weird one
Hi rags
Hello, you know if rags has a discord and if he does how to get onto it. He does message me on discord
All right. There you go rags
Number 3000 or just email me
Get in touch and i'll send you the discord. I have to watch both these efaps together. Well, damn guess i'll see you
Yeah, you could watch them whenever you want you can watch them privately without anyone being able to see that's how a lot of people do it
Uh, if you're in an illegitimate kid yourself, then are you gay? If so, then I am gay
I will have to ask. Um
What was it remarkable republican you would know
Something like that who wins that at the legitimate kids in orphans, dude, he can spot a gay from 10 miles away. He's
Unmatched he's a talented lad
Someone's already made a fucking aids bus beam. He can spot a gay from 10 miles away. So what he has grinder
Don't you?
No, but once my dad installed it on my phone to joke me
Joke's on him. I got fucking laid. Yeah
Damn I want to watch but i'm too busy. Have a good fap guys. I took or glorious. Thank you random greatness
Um extra credits you're making love with a known std carrier and suddenly you contract aids. You didn't ask for this
You didn't choose this
There it is
Uh, hey guys
Want to thank you and say I love you all you guys have helped me so much making long drives short and helping me stay
Motivated while training for the us air force. Thank you efap
Well, that's uh good to hear lucas and I hope um, everything's working out making long drive short. That sounds like a very good positive
A lot of a lot of jobs out there where there's monotonous times. You'd rather spend it listening to people talk about star wars
Isn't that right? Yeah, boy
Toxic rude saves lives rags. Would you rather get analed by a vampire or a werewolf?
werewolf
No doubt
Why not a werewolf's got a big ass dick?
I like that raj was like there's a reason for this. What is it?
I mean with like you said it was said with such conviction. There's clearly a reason in there
Well, you did he did say
Um
He did say you didn't catch it. Oh
What really gonna ask rags to repeat the reason rags? What is the reason?
The reason for which which one here for?
Immediately going. Uh, werewolf not vampire. Well, yeah. Yeah, it's it's I thought it was like obvious
I mean
I get it but he needs to know rags. He needs to know what why do you think I said it?
I can't I can't it's not up to me to say that it is. I just asked you. Yeah
No, but I don't think you're allowed to give me that privilege
I just did it's like the n-word only someone with an animal avatar can say it
I have an animal avatar and I just gave you permission
No, but I mean does it work like that?
Yeah, it does
I know the rules
Why do you think I was so quick to say werewolf?
Um because sometimes they're just normal human peoples
Then why wouldn't I pick vampire?
Because they they literally are no human. They're all bitey and they have they're all bitey as opposed to werewolves
Yeah
Yes
All right
I think jay slithered out of that he was gonna he was gonna say something else i'm sure of it
Couldn't get him to do it like not
We know that you have a fetish j for vampires and we just
We're gonna try and get it out of you to the day of the stream
But you you snuck out of it and we're just gonna see what happens next time other streams
Well, I like this my favorite film series for that reason
Um
Welcome back that was more than an hour say hi to april. Hello april
Saying hi to him. Hello april
April's not even the next month. Why are we saying hi to april april's not until next august. Oh, she's coming
On the way
And uh, it was more than an hour, but sometimes you need more than an hour to recharge batteries
Saying you know, you know what i'm saying? You know what i'm saying?
Yep wolf deleted his channel two days before the hard drive I bought to download his videos came in damn
Yeah, I actually saw some of that in the uh
In the discord, but like like I said, he's he's very much
Where he prefers his reviews don't get re-uploaded. So
Maybe it's for the best. Um
Uh watching movie bob videos are punishable under the janiva convention
Well
We did it for evaluation and research purposes i'm pretty sure that's covered
Bob deserves
Exterminatus for the intro alone
That was pretty bad. There are people who unironically watch his content
Not many are you sure how do you know that though? If he wasn't attached to the escapist then nobody would watch his garbage
what
The thing patrick williams thinks he's like a really good
Yes, but he's patrick williams yes, but that's someone this is movie bob that is someone someone out there
Are you sure?
I'm pretty sure patrick williams is a human being I can't be certain I guess you're right
Uh, did he drink an original coca-cola?
About bob I guess uh is if if tlj is a love letter to star wars fans
I don't want to see what he thinks a hate letter is
I I would picture they just they have like a meat tenderizer and they're just blasting luke's face into a pile of flesh with it
Over and over they're like this is a hate letter. You're like, all right. Yeah, I can see that
Um, i'd profess my love to all of you massives, but my parents are racist towards long men
Can you show them that long men are people too?
But they're not some say that long men are the best people yeah, it's it's a complicated thing
There's a lot of like scripture to go through and
A lot of procedural stuff red tape if you will to prove it definitively, but
Just show them documentaries of them finding long men in the wild
Um, not movie bob i'm out of morphine i'm
Movie bob fast in speech and eating slow in literally everything else
I had to slow him down. That was the trick to defeating movie bob
Dear don this guy is insufferable
All right
Endings to the left of me beginnings to the right here. I am stuck in the middle with
Yeah, boy middle is the best place to be
Um
Cj, how are things going with your paramour? We'll have to save that
Oh does cj have a have a have a boyfriend I don't know
Oh, i'm
Well, if he does i'm super glad
Stop putting this hideous neckbeard on screen. It's bad enough listening to his terrible arguments. Oh
Don't say that about cj
He's not a neckbeard I have a plan to make cj
I have a plan to make cj change his accent from southern
To southern and send him to disney as if he's ryan johnson to rewrite the last jedax. He looks like him
He does kind of look like him true
Yeah, good plan, too
Um, if we super chat enough, will you take bob's face off screen? It's already gone saved you rescued
Um
Hey cj gotta tell you your movie was awful and ruined the star wars franchise beyond jj's big fest maula
Please give this money to rags out of protest
So
Episode nine literally deleted half of tlj. So
well
to be confirmed
Um, if it has time travel in it, I don't see how it won't essentially be saying fuck tlj, you know
Like we're going way back before that shit even happens
Unless it's going to be like a self-fulfilling time travel. Why is it really going to be time travel?
I feel like this is just like a rumor. That's a given life because technically star wars with rebels. They're willing to do time travel
Oh man
So, okay this the temptation
Um, tlj is just the left taking a steaming dump on the franchise and the fans
Hashtag ryan johnson is a tool love letters like tlj are like a love letter to you written by someone who hates you
Hashtag efap is awesome. This is the thing. I
I i'm okay with you like, you know constructing like defenses of
Tlj is like it's fine with me, but
a love letter to fads
All right, you take that's why it's so beloved. Yeah
Because people just can't get enough of the last jedi
Uh, hi maula. The iron throne episode is nominated for outstanding writing for a drama series if it wins
Will you have an hour rant about why it shouldn't have won in your episode six critique?
I mention it in the episode five one that's coming out eventually
Um, and if it does win and I get to make the episode six one
Yeah, that that that whole that whole video about episode six will be why it shouldn't have won
But I don't I don't
There's no way that'll win right the writing is actually fucking terrible. All right, okay
Think about things that have happened this year and like
Last year you said oh, there's no way that would happen. There's no way that season eight would do that
well
You say that um
So like a a good example, I guess would be that I never thought black panther would win any oscars
But it didn't win a writing oscar. It won oscars for like set design and costume design and sound translation oscars
So I was like, yeah, it's fine with me. This is the thing give it in season eight
I'm not actually against it winning oscars. It just depends on not oscars emmys. It depends on what categories
They're not fucking be writing
Forting and primary actors go for it fucking set design. Yeah, fine. Literally everything honestly except fucking writing
I'm so tired of hearing people stupid people say disney spout on star wars. What did you want them to go in dry?
Oh
Finally got to catch a live stream love the content guys
Look forward to more of it when I watch it on moolah tarkin solved the income disparity on alder on
It's one way to put it also high rags hello. Hello
That um really enjoyed your new video cj, oh
Hopefully he read that they were saying in chat that he actually read out the um, paramount one
Uh, or responded to it cj also, uh, when i'll raise a fist slash dick mastison coming on. Um
I'm not against either of them coming on
I find it. I don't know if they they'll be either of them will be used to or up for
You know the whole responding to videos thing
About having guests on some of them are like wait, what you respond to other content creators and we're like, hey
Good thing. I swear
Spend this on rhino milk. Jay is best guest by the way
Thank you. Is this true?
I mean, I didn't know it was true, but i've got some researchers working on it and i'll see what they say
Good of these reasons
The top of the line they congealed in the best caves
Uh disney literally burned down decades of narrative beloved by fans to make what is essentially a dark parody of it
Kylo ran equals jack and solo ray equals jaina solo, etc
A love letter to his star wars legends
I've seen a lot of that. I obviously haven't read enough of the stories to know but apparently uh,
Kylo and ray are like really bad clones of the characters from that's why disney were like
Yeah, decanonize them and rip them apart to take the ideas from them. I guess
What's the um
The thrawn stuff is that still canon or did that get decanonized? I think it's all decanonized
They could still
Recanonize it I guess right they could like make with matt smith
Is he I thought you wasn't even in the duet anymore. Like I don't know. I don't know what the fuck is going on with that film
Are you excited to see it though? Jay? I'm so excited to see that
But and then comes another fucking several months of talking about nothing but star wars
Oh can't wait holy rhino milk da Vinci of weird salad
Yeah
Movie it's a shame nazi's ruined eugenics bob
Yeah, this is you'd say something like hell never live that down but he's the kind of person who'd be like what do you mean?
He's like well, yeah
You could have used it on the republicans but we can't now because the zone because of the
oh
If thrawn was in rebels rebels are still canon, right?
Oh, yeah, he was in rebels
Here you go
Yes
um
I think part of the reason bob speaks so fast is to try and copy what yachtsi does with zero punctuation the part where bob
Fails is that yachtsi is funny and easy to understand bob is neither one
Oh, yeah yachtsi's so much more entertaining than bob
Not even fair I feel bad for yachtsi that like bob is a blight on what is essentially his like little quarter of the internet right now
Uh, pretty sure why are they even on the same channel like because bob used to be on there and then he
Like left them I guess but then rejoined them. I really don't know enough about it
But I just I don't know why anybody would want movie bob
Yeah, really
Hi, like what is the quality of him?
Why would you want to be associated with him in any way?
Uh, pretty sure having a guard on your energy sword is a good idea
Yeah, but not like a guard made of energy
You know, it's a weird thing
There's a lot of I remember all the conversations going back and forth about that from like people who are sword experts as well
everybody what I did on talking about
Um, and they were just saying how the cross guard was dumb because it doesn't go to the handle
There's there's the metal in the top it off
Remember when that was the point of contention about new star wars? Yeah
Bob they're only pretending to be retarted. Oh, that's how they go past the super chat blocks. I guess it's saying retarded instead of retarded
Uh, so the sequel trilogy is brilliant because it looks stupid
Um
He actually didn't even explain how this how the prequels were better he just said the originals were shit
Oh shit
Yeah, I meant to mention that the guy we covered who had the video that said like the prequels were better
He like mentioned the prequels once
In reference to something for the made that video was so fucking retarded about okay
I checked as a channel and he has a review of the phantom menace. Oh
Star wars film it's a bad take to even say the phantom menace is the best prequel
Wait what like he said it he said the phantom menace is the best star wars film
It's a bad. It's a bad take to say it's even the best prequel. Oh
He's a it's a unique channel that's what i'll say a unique channel
Um, hello cj. When is the next episode of tgbp?
I was I saw him type sunday a couple times into chat. So i'm going to go out on a limb and say it's sunday
Which is unfortunate because somebody else is running something else on sunday. Isn't that right metal?
Who yes, what I was why would they I was expecting you say that
I tricked everyone's expecting but for reals is yeah, you're doing something on sunday
I have i've not mentioned that anyway yet though, but I am doing something on sunday
Why wouldn't you have mentioned it? Would you?
Why?
Because of the the reasons and I just I was like
Start on on sunday and be like, hey, this is a thing
Like if you mention it then people can make time you should mention it like now mention it right now do it on
Sunday i'm doing a long stream not by efap standards, but by my standards a long stream to
Celebrate 100k
How long is it?
That is long by efap status, isn't it?
It's not long by efap. It's like a that's like a
It's like an above average efap
I mean when we do the 24 hour one people be like, oh finally a normal episode of efap
Oh, yeah, you're probably right, but yeah and uh, who are the guests?
Um anyone who cares to show up?
Yeah, that's essentially it
My my policy was I just asked anyone who's been on my channel before
in a stream
And when you when you start and I forget?
Uh, I haven't set a time just sunday
For as long as you can if you can all people's whatever we start for eight hours
Yeah, that's it. That's generally I'll let people know like
When before I start I'll give people like an hour warning
But it's going to be going for long enough people can just drop in and out whenever they want
Fair enough
Everyone get excited for that
Um, I read that they wanted kylo ren to look like a knight hence the searcote helmet and crossguard lightsaber hearing bob dismiss it
As cosplay is hilarious
That's what I mean. It didn't even make sense. It's not vader fucking costume, is it?
It's a i'm wearing all black
Costume. Yeah, it was a knight of ren, but they didn't do anything without the second movie. So now jj's like well
The knights of red is still relevant. They're still relevant
Gonna fix this gonna he's gonna wear a vader costume soon, isn't he?
Oh, right. Yeah, that's a rumor. Well
Everything has to be terrible. Eventually, I guess
It could be cool if it's in like a dream sequence or something like a force vision. Nothing is cool. J. Nothing cool
Everything's warm
The dawn what's a smile?
Hey, mom, I was wondering if you're gonna make a praise for civil war also
They're gonna do time travel in episode nine from what we've been hearing
Yes
But I don't know what that's based on really beyond here say like I don't know if there's proof of it really
And as for civil war praise, it'll probably be a breakdown. It wouldn't I don't know if I do a praise strictly
I'd probably want to do like a longer
Uh breakdown
So disney is killing the ot cast for royalties
Uh
I don't have royalties
I don't know if that translates or follows even you'd want to keep them alive for royalties. Yeah
Can we throw bob off a rooftop, please I hate him more than the 19th amendment right you gotta stop throwing people off rooftops
I've told you this
Uh efap. Thanks for introducing me to jay long bone. No problem. He's a fun one. Everyone should subscribe
Um just got here but wanted to say this for a while saying bob speaks too fast gives him too much credit
You just crap at audio editing and time compresses everything
Yeah, it is true. I mean everyone can speak fast. It's not like it's a compliment or anything
Yeah, it comes out like a gobble not everyone can speak fast some people can well fast is relative rag is
Everyone can speak fast very slowly
Everyone can increase the speed in which they speak
Can steven hawking? Well, no, he's dead, but could he
Yes, he could type in times two
You talk about a guy who could not do accents jeez
Maybe he could
Wouldn't uh, wasn't he um, wasn't he british?
He was because he sounded he sounded american
So I don't know if that's true
That's because he got the voice in before there were like really and many voices to choose from
You're fucking right lad. You figure that out all on your own. He didn't want to change it because it was like his voice
When he had updated ones. He was like nah, i'm used to this one
I knew that
Mola have you seen overly sarcastic productions video on mary sues?
Oh
That's an okay video
They conclude that ray is not or is a mary sue they conclude that um
Female characters get called. They're like called overpowered and like mary or gary stew for
More often and it's like something that writers
uh
Get like uh, get her afraid of so we'll be
more cautious in the future before putting
Powerful female characters and stuff, which I think
Maybe don't think that's maybe I don't think there's any proof that that's happening, but it's gonna say it's impossible
Anyway, yeah, but it's uh other than that. I think it's pretty good video
um, wow, this is an old one almost done with my
The first part of the efap movie glad I was able to catch a bit of these see you at efap 50
Also hi j long bone and rags
Hello, may the dawn bless us why thank you, sir. Don't bless you
May his light shiny turtle, uh space marines are gary stew incarnate and even they aren't as op as ray
I wouldn't know because I don't know what they really do. Do you know anything about them rags?
Who space marines are they mary sues? Yeah, they are not
Much love long bone. Laugh always brightens my mood. Oh, yes
Is a good laugh
So if you go to the escapist channel with you know movie bob's content on it
What's the name of the other guy the guy who does uh, yeah
Punctuation yeah, uh, if you if you saw this video if you saw the videos on that channel by most popular
Um, it will stop loading new videos before a single movie bob video comes up. Well, yeah, no one gives a shit about movie bob
They're like, why are you here?
I'm just here for yachtsi. Well, it's like what what are you doing?
Grifting on to that's the actual annoying part of it
I imagine all of those people would love it if yachtsi was just on his own channel
there are 200 videos, um
That have loaded and not a single movie bob video gets so that in that channel the top 200 videos
none of them are movie bobs
Unlike most of the videos on the channel are his
That's insane
But you think that even you'd think like the algorithm would pick him up occasionally when he's on a popular channel
I don't know man. I think he's probably the biggest argument for um was there early on and thus has gained a channel just
Like by osmosis like the fact that somebody would have watched it and thought yeah
Okay
This is a channel
Like I just don't get his own channel somewhere or I think so
I don't know if I think he does like other content. I think he is just escapist and he might have another one
Well, I think his main thing is the escapist. No, no, he does have his own channel. It has a hundred thousand subscribers
Um
Mary sue the critical point is that the plot is warped in their presence overly sarcastic productions does a good video on it mostly
Plot is warped in their presence. What does that mean exactly?
So it's that the take is essentially that a mary sue isn't a mary sue because they're powerful
It's that they're powerful because um because like just everything in the world around them wills them to succeed
I can understand actually that
That describes ray like perfectly
Yeah, I was gonna say I guess the difference being that if I was amazing at like 17 different abilities
But none of them had relevance to the plot then
So it's it's not like it's a character thing. It's like a meta thing with how the story is written around them
It's like everybody loves them. They're great, you know
like if you think about like in real life you have any person they're not going to be beloved by everyone because
Different people like different things
But if a mary sue enters the story then everyone decides to like them because they're the mary sue
She talk about the uh author insert thing
Yeah, she does
It's very interesting because like, you know
Ultimately, someone says x is or is not a mary sue. The biggest thing is just figuring out
a set of defining
Attributes for what a mary sue is first once everyone does that the answer becomes very obvious
Because obviously it's pretty much just like a tick box
But deciding what a mary sue is is the complicated part that everyone gets caught up on?
I think you should have her on efap. She's good
Is she a person who would want to be on efap? I have no idea
Always just I don't naturally just assume. No, i'm always like they probably don't want to
But maybe um, okay, so if kylo is a weiner, how is him being new?
Has there context for that?
Yeah, movie bob said kylo is a weiner
Kind of a weiner to explain how ray defeated him. He said kylo was injured and he's a weiner
All right
Um, how is him being the new emperor good for episode nine?
Movie bob would find a way to explain that i'd be like it's good because it's different
Yeah, the meta narrative explains it. Have the emperors never been a wiener before?
Uh luke even missed the first shot and only through the magic space wizard help was he able to make the shot
Yeah, that's why he's a gary stew
Because he still did it no matter that he failed and also used the power
He's been training with and the help of the the fact that he could fly the x wing is a bit of a stretch
Why?
He's never flown a military vehicle before okay
He's like he's we have no we have to establish why there's no correlation between the two
So, well, yeah, let's do it jay. Let's go so military vehicle versus non-military vehicle
What is required for let's say rags to be able to drive a car versus a military jeep?
But he doesn't I I don't remember that scene too. Well, doesn't he like do maneuvers to avoid getting shot and stuff?
Like he moves. I don't think he does anything that complicated. Yeah
He's flying through the trench anyway
And if you remember his team he has to get saved by a wedge at one point. All right
I don't take very long
I'll let it slide. Thank you for your kindness such graciousness
um
The last jedi is a love letter in the same way a serial rapist is a robotic. Okay
Um rags does that mean you drove hitler's own car?
No
I know his his vehicle never showed up
I don't think so
Well, that's a shame
No, yeah, and I think uh
Hitler's car was a Mercedes wasn't it?
Uh if playing had six wheels
Yeah, it was a big old fucker
What car did it?
If you drive a Mercedes ben 770
Do you have a valet for that?
No, well these are they were owned they were a luxury car built from 1930 to 1940
Yeah, that's just an excuse
If you were a true valet you would have driven that at some point
Oh, that's the why is there a totally five models remain in existence
Is one of them hitless
The us army seized it after the war so of the five that still exist
20 percent of all Mercedes-ben 770s that exist belong to hitler
Hey, why did the military why did the military seize that like oh, we need to get this car out of here
No, actually. Yeah, because it's it's of incredible historical significance. Yeah
Also j there's a whole bunch of people in chat
We're trying to be like you're wrong about luke because this go ahead and read all of that
I already I already conceded the point because I was like, I don't you said you'd let it slide
That sounds that sounds like you still think it's wrong
I was being facetious. I was like, I don't remember what happened what he actually does in that scene too. Well
Um, all I remember is that he like flies and wins
um
If playing with watch that if playing with dolls makes you an amazing jedi
How come yoda wasn't having luke play with a doll during his training?
Oh
Luke didn't know man. Yoda didn't know ray figured it out
Um at rags
It's like the guy that said that console users could use a gun because it has a trigger on the controller better than pc users
Because of a mouse and keyboard
Oh, yeah, it's fucking retarded
Someone actually say that yep, you bet your ass they did that was um
Who was that? I I remember the video that was
Oh, I forget but yeah, um, if console use
What are the benefits of console is that it prepares you for actual firearms better and they could fight in a war better?
Because a console simulates the use of a gun better than a mouse and keyboard
Which will of course translate into battlefield effectiveness
Obviously well, I remember the fucking console versus pc
Back in the day was goh gamer go gamer person who said that this is a person who's worth it
Oh, they tried to uh copyright strike my video as well. They failed at it
They threatened me with like legal action and youtube stuff
Yeah, that didn't work we've we've managed to go this far on efap without getting that yet and i'm actually surprised about that
That's a really good point. Actually
Well, we're about to make it to 50 episodes without a single legal threat
How many people have you been covered and you include the whole video as well, so that's got to be
Like people would go like bad shit over that
I don't know. I guess we haven't kicked the right hornet's nest yet. We'll get there. You've covered up next
Yeah, but yeah, but we're yeah, but we cover them well. Yeah, we we don't fuck it up jay
Yeah
Jay, if that is your name
So the the guy
The guy who runs it can't be bothered to watch the whole thing to say
Um
The issue with arguing characters are stand-ins for fans only works when it's clear
The best is mgs2 where kojima constant breaks the fourth wall to reference both radon and player as one and the same
However, this is different because kojima reveals radon to be his own person the message of the game and mocks the player
For wanting to be the hero yet. Most people miss this on their first playthrough
All right
um
Does ray toss her cat or beat her dog?
Toss a cat
That means like to throw the cat not not what you're going to a dirty place
And yes, she does both of those things several times
What what was she doing for the dog? Uh, you don't want to know fucking it
Oh beating the dog
This is the reference to the streamer and the youtuber who like fucking abuse their animals. Yeah
Uh recently a youtuber I like tia zu who explains animal science as if it were the matter of a game
Collaborated with extra credits and it makes me sad. Oh, that was really sad. Yeah
well
You know you can't oh, I mean if extra credits wanted to collab with you jay, what would you say?
No, really?
Yeah, I would say no as well. I mean I would be like
Why would you want to collab with me?
That would be fascinating, uh luke saw that kylo is the ultimate homosexual
Yeah, it's pretty wise to feed us. Oh, wow. That depends what they mean by collaborate by the way if they're like, do you want to
Discuss something on a stream i'd be like sure
Uh
This stream lab's donation is gay
Tonald is weird, but kind of generic gaming youtuber movie bob fantasizes about genociding white conservatives
I think which one i'd like to listen to for a day is not much of a question
Also, tlj is objectively bad
Yeah, it's so hilarious that the whole like eugenics and murder and genocide angle is coming from an extremely fat ugly
Blob of a man with terrible takes on media all the time. It's like all right
He was neither attractive mentally nor physically he's like the he's the opposite of the the uber minch
He's like the worst thing you could possibly be as a human
Who's arguing for eugenics is like, I don't know. Maybe you shouldn't be the one to be advocating for that
Mola, why are superchats on this channel so much more heavily censored than on others like nick rikitas?
I wanted to say some choice words about bob. I haven't got anything
Uh set up as far as i'm aware
We put on a thing recently for links, but that shouldn't stop whatever's default. Like I haven't like I said, I haven't said anything
Uh, yep, the movie's right luke needs to save the day ignoring the fact that he could have stayed grumpy and learned
Nothing if rose knew how to drive
Well
She knew how to drive. It was the fact that she drove to where she was
What she did
The thing is there's people who argue like no fin was being stupid because he couldn't have destroyed the laser the position
He was in I was always like is that true? I don't know movie made it seem like he could
they always um
People always bring that up as if um as if there's anything
And people are going yeah
But if you if you think about it logically and you look at like, oh the the ship is melting and it's a big laser
And then you think yeah, but do you think ryan johnson thought of that?
If it if it's hot enough to melt the ship you're fucked. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, so you're like it's hot enough to melt the ship but fin is still fine
So what what is the mission?
I don't know that holds everything on craze dumb
Chuck tingle, please
Say request please may blessed pikeman read us a gay food bedtime story
Um, maybe we could sort that out for the 24 hour bananas and donuts
You've reached a point where that sentence makes sense. I was gonna say there's nothing about that. That didn't make sense to me
I was just like yep, right
That's a tip that's pretty uh, pretty standard efap comment
He read the uh, the glazed donuts one when I was first guessing on efap. I believe
Ooh
Very is very enlightening. Um hufflepuff for life, bitch
You're a hufflepuff
Um bob it's the last jedi not a stanley cubrick movie. Stop looking for underlying meaning. This is like watching someone go insane. Hey, man
meta
narrative
Look it up
Epstein's autopsy was performed by robert bayden who's just concluded that he
Suicided by hanging himself in a tiny room barely higher than he was
On an unrelated note bayden is a jew who also covered the jfk and mlk assassinations
Huh? Oh
Um
Personal point of privilege hufflepuff's lives matter no
No
You're the only
What have you heard of the david mitchell like sketch about hufflepuff jay?
No, i'll have to show you guys
I feel excited when you said david mitchell because it's like oh, finally I get to answer you so i have seen it
No, not it's fucking hilarious. Um, they're basically the sketch is that he's an announcer for hufflepuff
and he's like
Gradually explaining how fucking not special everything is about hufflepuff and he goes. Um
One of our students, uh, you know
Became rather important. Uh just last year. They're referring to the guy at goblet fire. What's his name the robert patterson character
Was he a hufflepuff? Yeah
I bet he was a hufflepuff and um
It's so yeah the he says something like one of us got to the point and did something very special he died. Yes
It's like that's an achievement because nothing happens in hufflepuff
Uh, but why should we care if kylo is humiliated or not? All he did was destroy random crab and kill two old men
Yeah, not just too old man. Damn it
He gave the order for a village to be slaughtered
Oh, yeah, cedric cedric diggery. You should know that jay you're a nerd
I think I did know that you didn't ask
I did ask that massive
But what's the name of the robert patterson character then? I wasn't listening bad, man
Um
Yeah, thanks for the entertainment cunts. Oh, how's our young how's our young wolf doing best wishes jarr be with you. Uh,
So previous efap this um, I go through at the beginning if you wanted to know uh, what's going on or what's happened
If you've missed the tweets and stuff
Um, what's your opinion on 2k goons?
2k goons
I don't know anything about 2k
Okay
Jeffrey obscene and seth rich are just the latest of the 20 plus body count linked to the clinton's
All right
Uh, do any of you have any pet hates in movies mine a slow motion nose and dry for wet
dry for night
I hate day for night and I hate when um
like you have a
God, I want to lose
So when you have like a character who's supposed to interrupt another character
And there's this uncomfortable pause between one of them starts and one of them begins because I don't understand what timing is
Because they don't because they don't write the rest of the line for the character like the character
No, it literally stops. They're gonna stop
So like mystic cue and then editing doesn't fix it either
No one actually speaks like that no one speaks like what about the
And then like wait stop and then there's that long pause like the person stops speaking
Because there's nothing on the script for them to say because it says and then you're interrupted by other person
Another person waits too long
If you're ever doing that you have to write the whole line or like think of what the whole line is
So you can keep saying it until you get interrupted and then the other person like all right around the middle of their sentence
Around these words you interrupt them
Yeah, also dry for wet apparently means when you're underwater but all under green screen. I didn't know that's what it was called
but fair enough and
Apparently 2k goons refers to 2k sending investigators to a borderlands youtuber's house and his channel. Yeah, i'm not buying uh
I'm not buying borderlands 3
They've been doing way too much shady crap with people. I'm not buying borderlands 3 i'm not going to support
Or is that it's not like the epic intrusive one?
If you need any more reason
If you yeah, if you need any more reason not to buy that fucking game, uh, there you go
sup mato, uh
Was the supa mato or sup mato had like a hundred thousand plus
uh
Views and he was a borderlands channel and they got his channel taken down for apparent
infringement or something and they sit fucking people to his house
Yeah, fuck borderlands 3. I ain't buying that shit. Did you like break some kind of
Contract rule or something about showing borderlands 3 footage?
Uh, he he discussed leaks
But
Okay, well, I don't know enough about it, but yeah, okay
um
The nazis were real
At a convention in baltimore a guy did movie bob cosplay fat mario with infinity gauntlet
That's pretty much it. Yeah
That would be uh bob's ideal
uh
sort of wish fulfillment
Which is worse the bad film or the bad defense videos that follow?
Um, honestly the bad defense ones are they kind of make me sadder
Yeah, because a bad film if it's like hated to a degree that I find
You know appropriate i'm like, yeah, at least we all understand that it's bad
And maybe it was just a cash grab and if that's the case, I can understand why it's still shit
But like I see the reason but
With like this movie bob stuff and everything. It's just like wow. What are you doing? This is terrible
You're just you're just oh
Um luke's feeder
Was the t16 skyhopper and is made by the same company that made the x-wing and have nearly identical cockpits and beggars canyon
Is the racetrack from episode one?
Oh really
Yeah, that makes sense it would make sense that the same company would have similar controls and as I mentioned before you probably want to
Standardize a lot of stuff across all the companies that create ships
To make your products more approachable to prospective new customers
Yeah, I think we don't get any lines like that in the movie. We do get luke saying
That it's familiar from what I remember. I'd have to watch it again. Um
I don't think it just it doesn't seem that much of a stretch to me. It never did. Um
especially not compared to having like
No experience with a thing and then nailing it
Uh rewatched homecoming because of this stream completely flipped my take on the film. It's so good. Oh
Hell yeah. Homecoming is amazing. Wonderful. I mean it's shit. It's not like the comics at all. It isn't and
Stop crying rex. You're old now. You're not 15. I mean 15 is the cutoff point
Uh, want to buy some death sticks? Yes
Luke yoda, please use lightning. They're about to kill akbar and my sister yoda. Hee hee peepy poo poo much too much
Much to have young lid yet you skywalk
Uh voxis cj and metal guests you spoil me so long man. Cj is much more handsome than that rag fella. Oh
First off that's literally not true at all. That's objectively untrue. I'm
I look not toot my own horn here, but I look pretty good
So I think that that is not true at all
He's not ugly, but I am who I am
I'm something fantastic. Just an orange supremacist
Yeah, I love oranges
They're they're good. They're not as good as pomegranates or I like granny smith apples. Are they as good as super mario odyssey?
I haven't played super mario odyssey
How do you get things to it? Yeah
Super mario odyssey. How do you define how anything is good without having played super mario odyssey?
Because i'm comparing those things to other things not super mario odyssey. No, i'm not comparing them to super mario odyssey
You have to compare no you compare other things by comparing them both to super mario odyssey. That's how it works
Oh, yeah. Well, I think super mario odyssey is shit
All right, well then I guess everything is good the hell that works well everything that isn't shit is good
These rules they're so difficult
Was it a rule? This is such a complicated place. I hate laws and rules. They're all terrible
So it's a trend. Yes
um
By the way chris stuckman thinks the force awakens is better than the return of the jedi and cosmonaut thinks mary sue day
And force criticisms is invalid
Yeah, I don't know if cosmonaut's gone back on that now since
uh
GLJ happened. I don't know what his take is as for chris stuckman
I'm gonna say cosmonaut has so many ridiculous takes that I literally like
It doesn't matter what he thinks because it's just going to be like rolling a dice like oh, that's what I think today
Yeah, I feel like he wouldn't take much to change his mind either
like
Present him a bunch of things that he didn't see previously for whatever reason
I don't think he thinks about the things he says. I think he just says them and if he was like
If he gets presented like loads of evidence, it's like you are wrong. Like the stuff that you said is wrong
This is an incredibly bad take. He's like, oh i've changed my mind and that would be his entire reaction
He's like, oh, I guess i've changed my opinion now. I think when we covered him as well. Um, his samurai videos
He was like partially offered to come on efab and he was like nah
That's a one day
I don't know what he'd say. I would be so strange
But it would be fun. Maybe all of his takes are weird like your takes are weird. What did he post recently?
I don't know. It was probably terrible though. Pretty strange
Um blew me away when I realized how popular that channel is
Hey molar, are there any games you would consider making one of those long series is on sometimes?
Sometime in 2024 when you finish your game of thrones season a and tfa series
Yes, the ones that got a war 2018 i'd like to do some before and uh shadow the colossus or something. I want to do something
Because I like video games, they're cool. I think
I couldn't send this earlier
But mr. Republican guy said the x-wing was based on the f18 even though it didn't fly until 78 a year after star wars
Hmm. Well, it's like travel for episode nine
It's like robocop
Darth vader was a ripoff of robocop who came
like seven years later
Thank you molar for this live stream makes my day so much better. Well, i'm glad good stuff, man
Um, uh, discord is asking why jay is talking about anal vor
What uh, what jay, why are you talking why are you discussing anal vor?
Oh, that's when I talked about like walking around in a guy's ass
Oh
Oh, yeah, like my my cavernous asshole. Yeah
Yeah, it's actually quite pleasantly snug. I guess that is what that is. All right
Yeah, but it's pretty fucking great
Glad we couldn't convince
Yeah, well, um
Episode nine trailer has less views than the joker trailer
Wait, isn't is there a really?
That's actually pretty interesting. Is there a new one or what? No, i'm guessing he's referring to the first one. Ah
Everyone does it
Well, I guess we that's checkable
31 million views
Oh, I want a million views
55 million views it's it's the true
We're now at the day where joker movies get more interest than star wars films number of star wars films
destroyed
stairwares
Um
What do you think about the obi-wan Kenobi series on disney plus?
It's funny disney wanted us to accept the new characters, but they suck but they sell the old
I've heard about this. Apparently we're getting a
Even mcgregor Kenobi thing. That's the thing that's happening now
Really? That's good. Come on, please
Let me hope it's please just we need it
Um
Yeah, I don't know what to think about that. Like yeah, we'll just have to see what happens to you
It's something everyone wants
But it's the kind of thing where i'm constantly like why didn't they do that? Why didn't they do that in the second?
It's like they're doing it. I'm like, oh no
Oh, yeah, what are we gonna do? I'm gonna fuck it up on that
We'll see
Speaking of the boys glad I caught the homecoming efab now
I know what it's like to enjoy a series that is horrible
That is a horrible adaptation of the source material. I've heard about this. Apparently the boys is a really bad
Uh adaptation however a lot of the threads
A lot of the threads have been looking into have been saying it improves the source material dramatically
No done done done
It's almost like the conversation of faithfulness is completely different the conversation of writing quality
What I didn't say that anyway mola, can you talk about shinoble instead of movie blob um movie blob
Well, I think we talked about shinoble at some point in one of the other efabs. It's very good
Uh as a tv show, I don't know how accurate it is. I've heard different things
Acting is fantastic
Atmosphere is so damn good. I love the special effects the fucking haunting nature of what radiation does to you as a human being
It's it's all very very very excellent and I love the uh last episode where they go through exactly how it happened
Why it happened and how unlikely it is and yet it was a perfect storm of horrible things that made it happen
Um good shit. Yes
It's not a thousand years. It's a thousand generations, which is like 20,000 years
a thousand generations
Thoughts on yeah turnoble's fantastic. Everyone needs to see turnoble. It's amazing
There you go
What's on madoka magica?
You don't know what that is
Huh the dark magic madoka magica. I don't know what that is
No, I thought you were talking about pop eyes for a second. Yeah, same
Uh give to metal to help get drunk as metal is the hero efap need not the one it deserves
Vader sounds sounds like yeah, okay. Hey metal commander. Um, there are many kinds of metals
Are you like do you have an affinity for any of them in particular?
No, i'm a whore
And rags was stunned by this knowledge
No, i'm actually um, no that makes that yeah that follows
What do you think of the rumor that disney is killing ot characters because lucas still owns part of them nordrotic covered this in uh in
week
Wouldn't surprise me. That sounds like a disney thing to do. Does it only does he what part of his characters does he own?
Yeah, I thought you just sold the whole thing. I didn't know he owned any part of them
But if that's the case, it wouldn't surprise me, honestly
If they're gonna want to use stuff that they're full control over. So if that's true, it makes sense
It's not even something I wouldn't necessarily not do
Like I I would phase them out if I was like, yeah, we've got no control over these assets
So i'd rather focus on what we do. I'd just do it in a non-shit way
Yeah, there are ways to do it that don't fucking ruin everything
Um
God, I love voxus on efap more voxus on efap. I don't care what seven hours of putting on that voice does to him. Oh
Oh, he'll he'll always come back the blessed pipeman has a space here
Um, I have the plot rags darth vader goes back in time and turns himself to the light side
Darth vader goes back in time. Yes
Okay
Whatever the copy shit the copy shit of the shit. Fuck it
In rebels, it was more pulling someone into the future ergo
They dispersal from the past at the point they would have died a time fix would mess up things if it changed more than that
That still sounds tisme. I don't know. It sounds like a rival. Can we just not do time travel, please?
Just don't
Stay away from time travel
Time travel pulled it off pretty well
Time travel will kill both the mcu and star wars in the same year
I want to time travel to a time where I didn't know enough to hate everything
Time travel is done. Well and back to the future. Uh, dr. Who um, dr. Who
Yes, it does. They do well in dr. Who
When you get to the fucking episodes where they start saying timey-wimey they can just suck my dick. No, right
There is nothing in that episode that doesn't make sense
about the time travel
What episode are you referring to the blank the blank one, which is the one where he says that
I was actually referring to when the tardis gets stuck inside the tardis
That's a fucking comic. That's a fucking comic relief special. That doesn't count
But he still what do you mean? That doesn't count. It's the same
They use that line
It's like it's like they start using it as an excuse for when nothing makes any sense
There's the timey-wimey wibbly-wobbly long like comic there's like so much stuff
They've done like so many comic relief ones and none of them are canon
Also, I like blink
There's a fucking comic relief one where he meets
Um, what's the name of eddie redmayne's character in fantastic beasts? Yeah, but you say this it's not like it's a
Absolutely absurd scenario that could never be considered canon. It's like it's not even a half bad episode
They just solve the problem in a way that makes no sense. It's like, okay
All right. Hang on. How long is the thing that you're thinking of?
I don't know how long it's but it's the doctor is trapped inside the doctor's tardis and the two of them have to figure out the
I think it's a david tenon one at least he's one of the two. I remember I can't
The fucking i'm sorry. There's no way
If someone was to watch all of dr. Who there's no way the time travel stands up to scrutiny
Not in like not in not in like the whole show. There's no point, you know, there are points where it fucks up
But as a general rule, it's fine
Even though it's a core part of the premise. I don't know man a lot of timey stuff
It's gotta be
Just use it to
Switch between you went back to the future a little bit to me
I love back to the future but like the idea of the waves of time is
Seemingly very subjective in terms of like it takes some times. It takes a little longer. Sometimes it doesn't
You ever fucked so hard you went back in time and call it sacked to the future
Why would it be sacked to the future if you're going back in time because you're going back
So
You were at the future at one point you went to the past and then you sacked back to the future
Yeah, there's a me in the future. So how did you go back and passed in the first place?
Huh? Yeah, you sacked you sacked all three times. Nice
Oh, yeah
Someone said what do you think of lupa lupa's time travel is fucking bulls
Which explains why it's balls
You can understand it's almost like the blueprint for a terrible movie
Uh, we we warned this is the thing a lot of people like hey, I liked lupa and i'm always like I like lupa
It's just that um, it's broken broken a fundamental level. Yes, but that is great
It's fun to watch
Yeah, it's fun to watch. It's not good
It's got like the the part where he's like cutting off the guy's fingers and it's like happening in real time. That's cool
Yeah, that makes sense
Star Wars rise of the ultimate homosexual
Who ryan johnson? No, it's just rise of the ultimate homosexual. I'm guessing it's tylen. Oh
I'd sack that to the future
At this point is anyone going to be too surprised?
If ray does a tism time travel back in time and literally becomes the origin of the force
It might be it did why not also by pipeman
From anonymous metal commander is greater than mube schlee
You can say anonymous super chat. Who's mube schlee?
I don't know. It's a mysterious creature. Who metal who's musically?
I don't know. It's like the bad bro from the hapasha laura
Oh
Awoo rags awoo
Okay
Rags can you drop a link to your book in chat pretty please?
Yeah, absolutely. Let me grab that really quick
Louie la vie wen eventually there's again, there's a lot of eventual ease but right time right place and stuff
Oh, let me open youtube back up the abbreviation for episode nine is ros funny
Oh, that'd be funny ross ross
Ross noble ross noble is a comedian. That's why it's funny. Ah
There's my book
Hey rags, just got a quad kill tips in it off of gibraltas bombardments. Are you proud of me?
I am very proud of you. I um, I actually have to I still have a weekly challenge
I have to get a kill with gibraltor
And i'm just oh
I I don't like
He's my least favorite character
Do not like him
Hey mauler, it's been a while since i've seen your stream last was when I donated to one of your bloodborne playthroughs glad to see
Your hate for tlj still
Oh, it's been a while since I've streamed bloodborne. But yes, I still don't particularly like tlj. It's true
Um, it hasn't gotten better with age somehow. Yeah weird lots of people keep saying that that's gonna happen
Yeah, one of these days one of these days. That's the thing the quinton said he said it's gonna be considered a masterpiece
What a masterpiece of shit
Not gonna happen. I feel like he's in a place as well where he's gonna get to like, you know
Maybe 20 years from now and he's gonna see low like he's gonna see three people praising it still and be like you see that, right?
Well, he's gonna see the other two people
It's like my friends like it and they're like we're not your friend
Um, most of my channel's active commenters are efap viewers
So as thanks my new video has two efap memes
It should be up by tomorrow morning given efap money is the best use of marketing dollars ever
Mark a cyborg
Yeah, we appreciate that. They'll probably keep the website going maybe or
Expand your mean notoriety
Who knows?
Geode
yay
The problem with this meta interpretation horseshit is that you can impute anything you want to anything
I can just as easily justify a meta interpretation that raised the best feminist overthrowing the patriarchy
Also j watch lord the rings you twink
What is that book rag that's my book the one I wrote with all my tips in it
Yeah, i've used a lot of the tips in that book and let's just say never
Failure never fail and I will I will say this tip number four is kind of a sleeper hit
You might not think at first that it'll get you
Where you need to go
But it will get you all the way
What are they tips for
What will you achieve if you use those tips? Oh, I think y'all your tip will achieve a lot if you follow my rules
Ah
Uh here to relax after studying non-stop for an online exam today because I thought it was due today and not next week
The tism is strong with me
Well, relax with us. Yes. Yes
Help, I think i've caught the gay also. Hi rags
Hello, i'm starting to think that those things are connected. Was it you that provided the gay to him?
Um, I think there's a little gay in each of us and it just needs to be given the chance to awesome
Watch on the aids bus watch bosh on amazon
I've never heard of bosh else b-o-s-c-h. Yes
Oh, yeah, he's quite the artist man crazy stuff
You have an amazon show
um
Maybe a tribute. He was he's a he's a renaissance
He would draw you're a hiranamous bosh
He drew the very he he's known in particular for his his like hellscapes and depictions of hell. Oh
Wait, let me see if this is who i'm thinking of. Oh wait, no
You guys thoughts on ghost recon breakpoint
Anyone know anything about that?
um
I yeah
I don't know. Well, i'm afraid none of us know anything about it. Yeah, also love you rags
Oh, I you're you're a great fan
Going back to college for asso asso in science on monday. Wish me luck boys
Good luck. My good luck
Well, can you please say I don't use objectivity to make my videos dawn. I use my heart. I spelled it wrong last super chat
Oh, well
Because i'll say it one more time. I don't use objectivity to make my videos dawn. I use my heart
There you go. That's gotta be just what you needed. Hopefully
Well, did you delete the just right debate from your channel?
I remember seeing it and now it's gone. Love the show all the best. It was on wolf's channel. It is
Gone from there. I don't know if someone's re-uploaded it yet. They might have um, i'm thinking of re-uploading it on moolah
edited down at some point and just pulling it like more efap eu sort of thing
so uh
Probably still find it and if not, it'll eventually be on moolah, maybe
What do you guys think about the new modern warfare?
Uh, I don't have any comments about it. Um, i'm still on the fence about it. I
I'm mostly optimistic. I hope that the single player is really good because honestly the multiplayer looks
Like it it's spectacular, but it does. I don't know how good it'll actually play
Um time to kill seems really low and potentially extremely quick. Um
So I I guess we'll see how it really plays out, but I definitely have my
My eyes on it. It looks like it could really be something interesting
I would just really really appreciate a really good
Solid call of duty single player and it looks like they are trying to put effort into it
So I hope it turns out really good because I would like call of duty to kind of rise above
It's the reputation. It's got over the last seven or so years
I agree
Um
Great up ignored you wait what oh
I mean it's it's telling not so well say about that
I think everything that's been said on here in the last however long i've not been paying attention is completely wrong and i'm not
elaborate as to why
Second part of chip chickly soup chat was also what the fuck is this video? Is he referring to tunnels?
Yes, he could be referring to any of the videos
Today watch his tonal glow gods. What a stupid video. No, no
It's genius. It just can be interpreted wrong. Sometimes just because you don't get something doesn't mean it's bad
Yeah, jay's the expert at that just because something is bad doesn't mean it's bad
Yeah tonight you will be laying in bed and then you'll be asleep and then all of a sudden your eyes will open and
You'll just you'll get it. You'll just
Get it. You'll have a eureka moment
total go entered you
You won't wake anyone up because there's no one else there in your bed and you will just have this epiphany moment
You might you might go to social media and post about it. Maybe you'll have a wank. I don't know
You have you'll have to express yourself in some way
Just go and think tonaled
That's what you needed to just go you allowed it to happen. Honestly, he allowed it to happen. He empowered your
Joyfulness compared to just right tonaled is pure joy agreed
Fuck you rags. The angry buff fish woman is the most fuckable undertale character
No, not at all goes mom all the way
Oh, i'm no, I know i'm late, but I want to remind everyone movie bob once called the us civil war a temper tantrum by the south
600 000 people died in that war
Oh
Yeah, um
You uh, we went to when I went to well. Yeah, man. It was some serious shit. It wasn't I mean they
It was rough and it wasn't a black and white issue
Odd phrasing but it was it was really rough man. It was really really rough
Uh bloodstained is literally made by the same guy who made castlevania as an fu to konami for firing
So yeah, it's derivative of castlevania because that's the point
Yeah, I did not know that
I think tonal just needs someone to proof read his scripts if he could get that he might be able to improve
And someone's wanted to say I wanted to
I want him to be so successful, but I want him to stay the way he is. It's this terrible
Conundrum that we're in to correct this statement as well
We're like he just needs someone to edit his videos edit the audio
Proofread the scripts and write the scripts his audio is all right. No
Maybe someone's gonna rate before him as well. No, just all of it. He just needs someone to all of it
You know, i've actually heard that there's someone else doing the talking
The writing and the editing on my channel. So yeah, if uh, you know
Who that
Sir, I don't know you've not heard of him. He goes to another school
That's fair enough
I'm convinced tonal didn't play any of those games was just paraphrasing igm reviews while trying to sound more human than he normally does
Well, I think he achieved something. It's like a I supported a piece of humanity
if you know, um
If you go to so tonals i'm upping my patreon to tonal because he needs he needs all of our support
Uh, if you if you do three a month three dollars a month
He has three tiers you have he has epic which is a level two patreon for three dollars a month
You will get you will receive
All of the previous stuff, which is the downward thrust discord server
A sneak peek of what i'm working on for the coming week
And the patreon feed where he posts diaries updates and vlogs
Um
If you go to level two, so pay three dollars, you will get the monthly thrust
A once a month article written by tone loke and delivered to the patreon
I want to
Give me a monthly thrust
Yeah, boy
So for five dollars a month you'll get all of that other stuff and your name at the end of the first downward thrust video
of each month
I don't know that there aren't people who want to get the monthly thrust. That's just
My goodness, I feel like it should be I don't know. Yeah, I
What if he finds out right like imagine he gets five new patrons as of now and then he checks and he's like
Oh, this is from efap promoting myself. Oh, that seems like it might be their cool podcast
Oh jeez, he'll be so confused
I'm just i'm i'm curious if I should go level two or go all the way to level
Oh
The way I kind of want my name on I want him to put my name on this
I want there to be a rags
Was it the third video of every month? No the first of every month. Oh the first he's not that he's not that
You know what if what if he has a month where he doesn't do
That's what I was thinking first of every month. Yeah, you weren't thinking that
That's why I said it firm
Uh, do all of the clones from the prequels count as orphans and is that why the emperor had to phase them out for storm
Troopers if you never had parents see you in orphan like if you didn't know they didn't die. They just didn't exist
Yeah, you're an orphan. You don't own your own blood. So i'm gonna google the definition of orphan
All right. So right. This is the emperor owns their blood
That's his patreon that I put in the chat
so
There's a film I can't I can't resist a monthly thrust that's great. Okay the emperor owns their blood
Orphan a child whose parents are dead the clones are not or
No
It's determined by who owns no that
Well, they didn't have well, they didn't really have parents to lose
Orphan is a verb. It means to kill someone's parents is to orphan someone
Yeah, um, oh I didn't know that but the key detail everyone's forgetting here is ownership of blood
Oh, yeah and bone density
Well, that's the natural core like if I own your blood you have less of it and therefore your bones suffer and become less dense
That's how it works. Yeah, it makes complete sense. And so if the emperor owns their blood
From birth they're still orphans
Um, hmm or unless wait was it that if they own their own blood they're orphans
I can't I can't you have to if you own your own blood you become
Anti-orphan, right? No. Yeah, because it was um, it was your parents own your blood if you're not an orphan
Oh, so if it's like
Someone who isn't your parents own your blood
Uh, yeah because then the orphanage owns their blood right? Was that it?
Has anyone watched this this battery they can tell us you need help
Uh opinions on disney continuing star wars the clone wars
I hope they don't fuck it up for all the people who love styles the clothes. I know that show has a lot of fans
Didn't it end transitioning directly into episode three though?
I can't feel like they will ruin anything and everything that they get their hands on
Like didn't didn't it end in a way that they couldn't continue it. I don't know I
I don't know what the fuck's going on with it. I've got no context. I I hope it goes
Well, I don't know what the fuck's gonna happen
There are clones of jango
Hop we heard that a bored guy was randomly stabbing people in this walmart. No anything about that tonaled. Would you like a
Descriptione
Descriptione
Jay finally I can tell how please a man was stabbed
certainly
Um jay, finally, I can tell how proud I am of you that you managed to activate windows
This is a great achievement for you. I am really proud of you. Thank you. Good job. Jay. You activated windows. I did well
I didn't activate windows, but I went to the screen where it tells you to activate windows and then thing went away because bug. Oh
Bring giguk on efap. Who's who's giguk?
I don't know. That sounds like a caveman name
Ooh
G-I-G-G-U-K. I don't know that
Mola who's cuter rags or jay? I think we all know the answer to that
Yeah, and I think saying it is
Gonna upset the uh, the party who's left in the dirt. Let's say I mean, it's like the wolf or the vampire question
Yeah, just just yeah, exactly important distinction. That's that is an important distinction. Yeah, I knew I knew it didn't quite sound right
Uh, hey mola rags and jay. Oh
Sorry mel
Hey, that's fine. I'm used to it. Hey
No, he means you too. You're just so ubiquitously ever present here
That it just goes without saying you're just such a common presence
This is like your what 30th efap the major cause of the machine that is efap is metals. I said cogs
Yeah, right to catch a live efap for once trying to catch up on the law for the 24 hour stream
I'm currently on episode 44. Please pass along well wishes to wolf as well as some of this money as you see fit
Please split the rest between the three of you. Thank you
Very well
I was about to say
I forgot jay. That's terrible
Oh, no
Feels bad, man. I'll I'll sort something out with that. Um
How is he gonna pay for his monthly thrust?
Which is gayest a wing x wing y wing or rags?
Oh boy, that last one threw me for a loop. I'm not gonna lie
I mean, I can't answer a question like that
Sort of sealed the deal though because of these four things only one of them
Sits on dicks
So I don't know that
Well, that's true. Who knows what those y wings get up to?
They got they
That's for those but they're bombing
I think it's the y wing like so it has docking procedures in it like it's pretty gay. Oh, no
So I don't know that's that's the a but the a wing is the most butt plug shaped. Well
Anything is butt plug shaped if you have enough courage
And the x wing is just I don't know you can do with that
Um, it starts off easy, but then it very suddenly gets very difficult
This is a weird one. I would really appreciate it
If jay would whisper a little bit more and pull his pants down slightly
Okay, I think that can be arranged he didn't deny it
This is what you get. This is what you get when you tell c3po to loosen up
don't
Don't know what that means. I don't know what that means. I'll loosen up mola. Who's your favorite efappa? Mine's rags. So hands off
Yay
This man has good taste. I guess tonal and I taste good
Obviously tonal camps. Yeah, i'll be my favorite. I think I think they were
I think they implied like uh someone who's
Actually a part of the live discussion
Like a like a guest. I like the mola guy. He's pretty cool
Did any of you I think he's kind of overrated. Honestly
I mean he takes ages to make a point and he goes off on random tangents
Kind of like movie bob oddly enough. Yeah, it takes forever to make a point
The one thing he has of a movie bob is he just never releases videos
What movie bob just pumps them out constantly?
So really the pain from either is is lessened by the one with less videos, right? That's fair, right?
You should team up no
Give you a bad. Can you imagine you in movie bob during the creative process trying to make a video?
I want to see every time movie bob says just anything, you know, like wait wait, but that's not true
That there's literally nothing to give me a script and i'm like we're gonna control f meta narrative and we're gonna get rid of it
Okay, and he's like no
But that's the word that confuses him the most did his video have a meta narrative?
Ah
Probably how about eugenics?
Well, does that really count? I think that's just like too obvious to be concerned. Yeah, it's not it's not it's not a very meta narrative
It's just it's a uber narrative
It's like a super theme
I'm, sorry. I can't think of any holocaust puns
Huh? I can't think of any holocaust puns, too
Yeah, well that's okay
It's all right. If your attempts at holocaust puns go up and smoke don't worry about it
Maybe if you concentrate a bit more
The only anime you all need to see is sargon anime
What
Uh that
Jay anal vore then
Hmm question mark. Jay. Are you what do you what's your opinion on anal vore? How do you know when you're free?
Um, i'm free right now. Tell me about what you think about anal vore. Oh god. No, you're doing efap right now
I mean you're not free. We're both here. It's all right
I mean you don't have to reschedule or anything. You're currently a circle on my screen
I'm more of a concept really than a corporeal entity
So you could discuss with me what your opinions are on anal vore. How am I supposed to get into concepts ass?
No, you don't have to get in the concepts ass
I want to know what is your opinion on on the act?
Oh, I think it's the activate everyone should try it at least once before they say it's bad
What is the largest who is the largest person that you have ever anal vored?
Or do you
Okay, that explains where the nose went
What why does that explain where his nose went?
Well because when you're getting I imagine when you're getting sucked up a particularly snug butthole
Yeah
Your nose comes off
No, it just gets pushed into your face
But that's that's jay's nose not voldemort's nose
Jay
Jay is anal voring voldemort
So why does voldemort's nose fall off?
Because but he's kidding. I wanted to keep a part of him as a as a souvenir
While while you were performing the act you took his nose together
Yeah, it squeezes have very the nose is still there. It just got smushed into his face
That's why it appears flat. I don't think that's how it works in the articulation
And in voldemort was inside of jay's butt for so long
He lost the color in his skin. I thought it's very pale because there ain't no sunshine up a butthole mauler
All right, no sunshine
Yeah
It's possible, but no and really it's not a you can get a tan there not not very typical
You don't want to tan on the inside your wall
That's why people bleach him
Yeah, you want that thing looking spic and span?
The bleach so um
So all right, well next super chat you deserve aids if you're hit by a bus
is
That sums up efap doesn't it
Out of context, that's so beautiful
Well, you certainly if you get hit by the aids bus you deserve
Just like a regular bus though. I don't know if all of efap is destroyed in like only five minutes of it survives
I think the last five minutes would do pretty nicely
Were you were you hit by the aids bus and were you aware of it being the aids bus?
Determined the answer the question. Did you anal for the aids bus j?
Your honor is not coming. Did you just instinctively? I didn't know it was the aids bus at the time
I just thought it was a normal bus. It was just an instinctive thing when a bus or missile shaped object
Okay, I woke up I realized I was in a chuck tingle novel
The bus what clued you off that you were in a chuck tingle novel you um, I was I was fucking a donut
Yeah, he just woke up with your
It's right in that donut hole hanging out
Um, there was a chocolate donut have you have you told bartha you're not mexican. That's
Deep memory right there. Oh, she knows she knows
Especially after halloween
Martha
Wolf is efap force ghost. Also. Jared did video did a video on wolf. I have heard
Um, you've seen it
I've
Is that the one I watched?
Yeah, we watched that together. Oh
I know that he did a few
Good that he's done a few of um a couple topics that involve
I guess coming back doing efap doing reviews. I don't know. I don't know what's going on with him exactly
Oh god, i'm concerned about will will let him in the chat
Yeah, oh j grabs pen well
Too late j
Uh, why have you not pencils gonna do much for jay bayouin? Why have you not seen bone tomahawk?
That's just silly. I'll i'll check out what it is. I'm curious just by the name alone under
The stars. Yeah, i'll do it
I can't wait for the day decades from now and my unloved adopted bastard grandchild are asking me when part four of tfa critique
Is coming out?
It'll be out by then. I
110 percent may be promised
It is as the prophecy foretold is tywin the queen that was promised the uber gay
the queen
Uh, mr. Kenobi is sexy 3po baguins also. Hi rags
Hello. Hi
I love that I can get drunk with my pals play smash for hours and then listen to you guys on the way home
Hugs and kisses my n words. Oh
I hope you're not driving drunk. I'm sure he went he was on the bus. He's on the bus. I'm sure
No, no, he's he's not driving the bus. No, he's not driving the but he's just on the bus
Because because he might he might be a bus driver
Go to a party drink up and then go to my job as a bus driver
What a bizarre
Imagine you're driving a bus. What do you first hear about the aids bus?
If you are driving the aids bus, please slow down
Um dance in the vampire bun. Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What if the aids bus hits somebody who has aids already?
Does it cause it would knock the aids out of them? Yeah, I was gonna say cancel out
Yeah, they die because they got hit by a bus, but they don't have aids it
It cures that all the way
Was oh, well, would you rather hold on to your old aids or just uh get some new aids?
I don't know
I don't think i've ever really been in that situation where you had to decide if you could have new aids
I mean, I think I take the new aids is always good for a change, right?
You never want to get stuck down on the old aids for too long. I don't know. It might be really nice aids
If it's a nice aids, obviously i'm keeping it
I didn't know they were nice ones
Well, that'd be relatively
Um dance in the vampire bund is an awesome manga
Dance and the vampire bund bund. Yeah b-u-n-d b-u-n-d
Interesting one. I don't know what that is. But yes, hold up. Wait. Wait, is this about charles dance?
I hope it is dance in the
Vamp wow, it's auto completing. Um
Dance and the vampire bund is a supernatural drama
Manga series written and illustrated by nozumo tamaaki
The manga was serialized in media factory sign-in manga magazine monthly comic flapper between
05 and 2012
Um, all right. Well, um
It looks it's got a lady on the front
So
Actually, I don't fucking know how if that is a lady that could be a child. This is anime after all
She looks awfully young
I don't know how I feel. It's okay. She's 500 years old. Oh, she's oh, yeah
She's a 500 year old spirit dragon. Yeah. Oh that makes it. Okay, then
What's wrong? Is this your first time seeing a naked woman?
Shut up. Why would I feel embarrassed looking at a kid's butt? Whoa
Whoa now is that from the thing?
Yeah
Oh, yeah, I went to images. We got a we got a very we've got a fairly bared. Um
young lass
I think you should probably stop looking at it
uh
Yeah, we're we're moving on. Oh, there's a werewolf
Oh, no, is there a bus?
No, I she's nowhere to be seen but there's a werewolf here. So
I'm definitely um
They got thanos you get you get me I guess ronin baguins
I don't know that I don't bill bow would engage with that sort of thing or any variations off him, but I could believe it
I guess
I just had time to look at my notifications. Hmm started three hours ago. It's efap with molar and rags. Of course. It's still going
I think in total
We did just over four hours plus
Five hours just lean us to about 11. It's not bad. It's not bad
um
Everything is great about the prequels except what was shown on screen
Look up alex jones explain the prequels if you haven't seen it. I have that video is good. It's fun
Uh, this is a test i'm accepting it
To stand victorias over the middle one ends their growth when they beat the middling self
Don't you agree molar?
I don't think I could disagree with any of that
Long praise the middle
Rah you've got to stop throwing people off rooftops. We've talked about this, but I wanna and anyways bob is not a person
You know, it's a broad definition
Four plus five equals eleven. Did I say that?
Um, i'm very very sleepy right now
Um, I don't think osp read specifically it would like to be on efaps and she's an sjw
But not really an insane one more like your average cali or washington uni student. However, she could always surprise me
She's welcome to come on only heard
Reasonable takes from like mostly reasonable takes from her. Yeah, but you you think everyone's reasonable
That's not a true
It's not a false either
It was pretty reasonable when you said four plus five equals eleven. Yeah, see you didn't call me out on it
You just said it was reasonable. Wait, wait, wait. All right. It's a second. I gotta get my it's nine
Out my little pothos here. Hey, let him figure it out himself. Jesus
No, i'm not gonna be there. Stop spoiling math
Six seven eight. Holy shit. That is nine. Yep
All right, i'm back from fenton dog math
27
All right. I'm back from fenna's stream
I was technically here for the beginning and the end of the stream
So you didn't come for the middle the one part that everyone actually thinks is any oh, no wait till alan hears about
I always come for the middle
You guys should unironically react to the clinton body count website
It's legit hilarious multiple instances of someone dying in a plane crash and then an autopsy showing bullet holes in this skull
geez
Weird how that happens?
Um, I for one love the clintons and everything they do and yes, so
And and uh board lengths three. Yes, we support them 100 don't come to my house and force me to delete my channel
Uh, I miss wolf now. I have no one to spam annoying super chat set. I mean I could spam right
Hey
I could spam right instead
But it's just not the same also. Hi rags
Hello
You're right. It's not the same. It's better. Oh
I've decided to become a villain. I'm going to use my intellect and resources to try and end humanity
Could you edit and redraft my willed ending mission statement?
Um, well, I mean if it's gonna be I mean if it ends in you killing everything
I don't think we need to really redraft it. Well, yeah, sort of. I mean why not make it better, you know
So that we can all go out and I know it's like a it's like a principle thing
I mean, do you want to die to a villain with a shitty monologue at the end?
Yeah, but I wouldn't care if everything is going to stop existing. It's like oh, well
Listen one day my car
That I drive that's a lie is going to be
No, listen, it is not a lady's. Is it a bus?
Oh, no, it's not an aids car. No, it's not that either
Because women don't get aids proven
So yeah, um one day my car is going to be nothing but rust it's going to be scrap metal
It's not going to be a car
It's going to be broken up and destroyed and ruined and it will have dissipated in the spacer elements
But for now it matters to me because I use it and it has value to me, right?
So in this in much the same way
The the the final world ending monologue notice of the supervillain
And yeah, eventually I mean the world's going to blow up or whatever which is weird
The supervillain would do that because he's on the world too, but whatever you do you I guess
We still want it to be good because we're here while we're hearing it or reading it or whatever
You know, so we wanted to you know, I don't know we want we want to die as objectively good as possible
It wouldn't be efap without it
I don't disagree. Do you want the villain to be better? Surely you want the villain to be worse like
Worse at what that writing? No, I want to be a great writer. I'm going to be a shit villain
If they're a worse writer then maybe they're less intelligent
Do they're villainy worse?
I don't think so
Because you can be very very intelligent, but a terrible writer. Are you saying that ryan johnson is intelligent?
What no, okay
He wants to think he might be intelligent, I don't know he just might be a shitty filmmaker I think we know
If I had to guess I would
probably say
Eh
I mean if any and he's clearly high functioning enough to land a director gig
Whatever he is. He's a high functioning one. Yeah, whatever he is. He's a high functioning
I'm not going to say he's anything in particular, but if he is something it is high functioning
You think if you said that about bob chitman he'd take it as a compliment
Hey, he'd be like I am the highest of shitters. You're talking about cinema roberto. Ah, we are talking about a theater robert
Theater robert
I need to find the cornstarch girl you guys covered a wolf's chattel a year ago
So do you remember the video or chattel name? I don't that video was
Cornstarch girl was that me you were right. I'm pretty sure that was actually us three. It was a really bizarre video
She was just like eating cornstarch. What what do you?
We watched a podcast. It was freaky
A video about cornstarch a woman eating cornstarch. Yeah. Oh, yes. I do remember that
Yeah, just straight out of the yeah
Oh, yeah
Um, so anyway
These streams. Yeah, I don't I can't remember the name or the channel. I hope you can find it
If if you really want to uh, these streams help keep me sane during work. Thank you. No problemo
Tonald is the new shakespeare. I don't think anyone would disagree with that
Digi bro is a massive looking forward to that efap. I mean, there's no like expected time
I just know that that's something people wanted us to cover
Um, it's been fun my friends, but I need to sleep. Good night. Good night. Chip chip play
That sounds like weakness
Oh, yeah, just don't you know, you don't say anything
Uh giguk is an anime reviewer shit poster apoben describes him as anime Yahtzee fun and cool guy generally
Oh cool
So i'm not natively english. So I adopted the american accent while speaking english. Does that mean the american accent is orphan?
Pranks you confirm or deny. Hmm. No, the english are still around
Because we got it from them and the and the british still exists
They're as as hard as they are apparently trying to destroy themselves
They are they are around the british are a thing
So we can't be orphans if our if our mother tongue, I suppose is still alive
So I guess it depends on how far back you go in a country owned blood from another country's language
I think so. It's not so much ownership
I would say maybe uh
I don't like the spiritual
predecessor
I think that's the answer right there and if it's not the answer there will be a sequel answer one day that
Further dictates the rules
No doubt that
No doubt this will take some time to analyze. Yes
Rags knock it off. I'm a wholesome. Wholesome christian boy. They're saving my body for marriage. Stop it
Oh, no, I can I can respect that
I just didn't take that route. Um root. I don't there's a whole bunch of russian letters
I'm gonna put it into google translate
But i'm just saying if you're saving your body for marriage and you don't get married then
You fucking lost on that that gambled didn't you that's true
You have to marry something inanimate. I guess at that point just to make sure
I'm saving my body for a wood chipper
Hi
I don't know
Something to do for who's who's who's getting tired of passing the time by staring at the walls
You would think that a you think that of all the machines wood chippers are like among the happiest
All right, doesn't chipper mean happy?
So I translated it
It's it's russian and it translates to hello. We must fight the american propaganda war machine
I'm on board with this
Uh for me daddy j oh
Okay
Okay, uh rags cover your ears with your paws
Um, okay for episode 50 it'd be nice to make rags as an official efap host
He's been such a great guest. I think it's time to take the next step in his toxicity
I don't know if he's ready for that like
I'll talk to him about it. All right talk to him about some point a dog book rags, really
I
Guess he's still got his ears up
He's gone forever. That was the last one. I was the last one
I can't believe I made it
My eyes are starting to fall into themselves
as as
not dissimilar from
Voldemort's nose when being
assaulted by jay, I guess
So you said the word you said the one means
Yes, and i'm now
Collecting them in prep. So you're gonna delay delay that I need time. So just delay in some way jay
Talk about something irrelevant
Um, another life is a bad show. You said that already
I know to repeat yourself. It's been my entire week has been like
Thinking about that show. So it's I have to share my pain now
And i'm sorry
But um like an hour of sharing my pain, which is what the video is currently is not enough people need to be in pain more
How does it feel to be like a super long man
I mean, that's not a super long man. I think Lindsay Lindsay Ellis has done longer videos. She's not alone
She's got two hours. My I I moved my
Plons away from my ears. Uh, I I I just I I feel as if
You guys are done your guys are done saying whatever it was, right?
It wasn't anything about anal vore. All right
The last thing that was said I know I know you're into it
And I don't want to deny you the chance to talk about you know, the things that interest you
Yeah
um
Bhima said a dog book rags really
a dog book
No, any book I write is going to be a dog book. I was gonna say I don't I don't see what the problem is there
But apparently there's a problem
I I thought it was I think that it helps a lot of people
Um, holy crap, you actually made it to the end
Not the last actually aha and they're the last now I can how you showed us I can get to these me maroonies
To love dr. 69 all day. That's a that's a username
tripping
That's great, that's good that's that's great it just says choo choo
The love train
Juju it's time for the love trip, please. Can people unironically post this image as if it's real apex
And then bloodhound has a sausage
Oh
Like a serious time with the apex
Oh man, um, that's some good shit
Corporate needs you to find the difference between this picture and this picture
It's true movie bob is an open box
Why is movie bob behind an upside-down american flag I think he's in front of that flag
That's what I said, right yeah, why yeah, why is he why is it upside down?
Because that's like a thing you do the show like this respect for the flag as you flip it upside down
Doesn't that mean that the nation is in distress?
No, there's half mast
but
Which is generally what i'm at
But he's standing in front of an american flag that's upside down you're generally at half mast
Yeah, okay, I haven't read the Geneva convention p.o.w handbook
I want to see how many likes that poet is up to actually it was at 79 last time I looked
Oh, no
Marx had a lot to say about art and rats
What's with the what's with the rats
So many good time in apex homo beams
Oh, it's so an upside-down flag represents distress
Okay
All right
I didn't know that
I thought it was okay. I didn't because of a telescope. Wow, they didn't put the u in colorized i'm offended
Downward thrust is a lying snake the gamertron show
It's what I wonder what the distress is whenever this was taken. I wonder what was the what was that? Well, that's the thing
For a movie bob. Oh
Imagine what it could have possibly been. Yeah, it's distressing that we're not using huge
Hi, when lannis's third consecutive year is the apex homo at the pride parade
I'm loving his outfit. It looks great. Yeah, that's fucking great on point
And I think that actually brings us to the end of the memes and possibly
The third consecutive year is the apex. Oh, no, you're not allowed to stop ever
Um, I hope charles dance sees those memes randomly I do too
Charles dance if you'd like to be on efap
1500 people watching and you'd like to be on efap fucking say no more
We will have you on in a heartbeat. I would die having him as a guest
All right, if he comes on fucking would I lie to you you'll probably
Uh, we promise we promise jay won't be here
Just asking questions about why does he think season eight is so bad?
Yeah, it's like so you're probably contractually
Fuck you probably don't give a fuck. So can you tell us why season eight is terrible? What you're old
You're rich. You don't give a fuck. Tell us the truth
Regardless could you imagine how he'd react to the normally fuck questions
If he saw chat he'd be like why is everyone saying i'm an apex homosexual
Um
Yeah, we had a lot of people pop in for this one
So I think the description is gonna be filled with channel links for those who want to find whose everybody's was is is um
It was a lot simpler in the first one the first one will go up hopefully within the next
Five six hours however long it takes to upload and render process. Sorry
Um, but it's been wonderful
That was efaps 48 and 9 all in a one big tismy bloom and and now
Me and rag is gonna have to just sleep until we hit 20 the 22nd of august to gun for an entire
24 hour efap with
Probably two breaks between three streams, which means it'll be like a 26 hour probably depending on how long the brakes are gonna be
No, that works. Um, i'm gonna buy some energy drinks probably at some point. Yeah
And i'm gonna have to prep a lot of how it's gonna work it's gonna be great
Exciting stuff. We will see you all there
Thank you. Once again to all of the guests. You've been wonderful. Um, I would say wait, wait, when's wait, when's the 24?
You know our efap 22nd
Tuesday. Oh, yeah, that's right. We discuss this often. All right. All right, we're good. Yeah
often
um
The two the two guests who are currently here jay xe runs a channel that is
Absolutely, I could choose a lot of different words here
neutral
massive
Um neutral and you will find that i was just gonna say there's links that you guys know jay
And you probably after this whole night know bell as well
at least better than you already did there's links there's gonna be links to this stuff in the description and um,
I think that's that that leads us to about it. Does anyone want to say anything?
That at all
I I feel like the that one time we watched in tesla when I was over and it's pretty much the same time as well
It's true
Um, I think it's time. We all got some sleep. I think that's that's the best. Yes
Thank you for the memes the kind donations the wonderful guests the interesting conversations and the hilarity. It's been great. Everybody
We shall see you next time. All right
Good
I will do it again 22nd and the 50th 24 hours. We'll do that again
All right
