A little game while we wait, while we get ready,
to get started with our new year's adventures.
How exciting.
I'm excited.
Why?
Well, I mean like to play Halo or for the new year?
Both, I need extensive reasoning for both.
I enjoy getting better and better at Halo
and that comes with the satisfaction of knowing
that I'm improving, but also I'm ready
for the first year of the clown decade.
Why is it the clown decade?
I mean, it's gonna be the clown decade.
How is this not already the clown decade?
Yeah, well, this is where it really starts, right?
But it only started like halfway through maybe.
Like sure you had stuff like Gamergate
and all the crazy things going on in colleges
and the YouTube stuff,
but like now we're beginning the decade with that.
That's our starting point.
It's gonna be great.
This is gonna be a tipping point decade
for a lot of people, I bet.
Do you think any good things will happen in the decade?
Many good things, absolutely.
Many good things will happen this decade.
It'll be fun.
The name is 17 of them.
Let me see.
I'm gonna suck 17 dicks.
Hmm, is that like doctor's orders?
Yep, doctor's orders.
See at that point, what can you do?
Hands are tied.
Yeah, hands are tied.
Ooh, that'd be a good touch.
Ah, seeing you said clown decades.
You know, there's a reason I go back to them.
Decades looking pretty good now, huh?
Yeah, I got big plans, big plans.
Hello chat, how do you do you Ewoks?
We're live, we are here with our chat.
We are exploring.
I suppose we can, there's so much on the agenda
in terms of, it's a new year.
We've got 365 days to say goodbye to.
365 days to say hello to.
Yeah, that part's, I guess, yes, that's a part of it.
I don't really care about that.
But yeah, we're gonna get multiple guests in here.
We've got a couple of things I want to cover,
very small things, but we were mainly gunning
for just having a chat.
That's as crazy as that is.
That'd be fun, we're gonna have a good time.
Yeah.
I have no idea what's gonna happen when I do this actually.
I'm gonna do it the safer way.
Do what?
Adding people to the call.
Since it starts a new call, I don't wanna,
I try and add people through my laptop.
I don't wanna risk that if something weird happens.
You know, I'm waiting for them to join.
Here we go.
Do you want a little look-see?
Hey-o.
A little hell-dee-dee.
I know. Little hootly-doodly.
A little hootly-dootly.
Is this our anime efap?
Yes.
Yeah, is it?
Yes.
We're gonna do our anime efap where we talk about anime.
There was a top comment.
All the other cartoons.
On the previous stream that was like,
I can't believe Moolah doesn't know how to pronounce waifu.
I was like, I was-
I know, I saw that too.
Fucking fucking joke.
Obviously.
He knows how to pronounce waifu.
Wait, wait a minute.
It's like, whoa.
You said it was a joke, but that's like Poe's law, right?
Who is Poe and why is it that his laws matter so much?
I'd just like to note that I have leveled up
in Halo to general, right?
But what's interesting is that
by a crazy mathematical co-inketing,
I've reached it by the exact number it takes to level up.
Which was, let me double check.
Cause this is,
I wish I could look at my own.
How do I do that?
Career.
But fuck, the UI in this game is fucking shit.
Yeah, it really is.
Under player ID?
No, is it under season one?
No, is it under custom is it?
Well, just take my word for it.
I reached the exact number that it took to level up.
And that was like hundreds of thousands of X.
I hit it exactly.
I have zero points in this current rank.
That's how accurate I am.
Can you guys acknowledge the New Year's Eve video tile?
How cool, it's still fireworks in it.
Oh, I only just saw that.
Crazy, every frame of party.
This is our party.
So every frame of pollution.
How come you have no life and you hear Chase,
like why aren't you outside partying
with all the rest of the flim flams?
Yeah, what can I just think?
I'm unemployed also.
That doesn't explain it.
You could still go, wait, wait, wait, wait.
If anything, that frees up a lot of time for partying.
No, my girlfriend's visiting, that is the party.
Oh, you sound like you're having a great time.
She's just alone in a different room
while you're having a little-
No, she's making me food right now.
Oh.
Oh.
Yeah, yeah.
That's the relationship.
Just like that, yes.
Well, please, I'm sure some of you.
Yeah, just like that.
It's a nexus that she would make food from, man.
Also, it's really funny, Rags,
that for the last, I don't know, week,
I've known that the Halo event is going on.
It's like, double XP, come on,
you wanna get all those upgrades?
And I'm like, all right, hell yeah.
I'm gonna grind, I'm gonna climb the ranks really fast.
And I've just been so busy editing, I just haven't.
Because it's like, you know when you're behind
on putting out a video, and you're just like,
well, I can't, I can't, well, yeah, you wouldn't know.
And you're just sitting around like,
ah, I'd love to play this game,
but I really have to be doing work.
Your conscience won't allow you to play the game
and enjoy it.
I haven't played, I haven't chilled out and relaxed
and watched the thing in ages now.
Mandalorian's the closest I got to that,
and that felt more like homework.
Yeah, because remember, everyone, Mandalorian is bad.
Dun, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
The theme is still good, Rags, okay?
Yeah, I got, I found, I was looking at Mandalorian stuff
and the theme song popped up by some people.
They did like a Synthwave version of it, it was pretty good.
So I emailed them, I'm like, hey,
I gotta make a review of the Mandalorian.
I didn't tell them that's gonna be shitting all over it,
because the Mandalorian, just as a reminder,
is a bad television show.
But they hope I asked if I could use their stuff.
So we'll see, fingers crossed.
We're gonna see if we can have that, it'll be Coolio.
Damn Chase, someone in chat just said,
Psy Chase is here.
Oof.
Yeah.
Chase is here, I know.
He's the only one, no one wants to hang out with us,
he's the only one that's in here.
Yeah, no one, you know, in fairness,
we are pretty repulsive.
He's the only one that doesn't want to be a part
of this catastrophe.
I'm your only choice.
Yeah, yeah, well.
He's our only hope, our only choice.
So what's your New Year's Res-O-Lucian, Chase?
You gonna?
We covered this.
No, no, no, it's different now.
You've had time to think about it.
Okay.
I haven't thought about it anymore.
Oh, what the fuck?
It's remained exactly static.
Let me just go in our DMs.
See where it says you need to have a very good answer
for a New Year's resolution.
You fucking, why?
Oh no, James Moore cried because of me last night.
I guarantee you it was because he got to a certain point
in Buffy and it killed him, that's what it was.
He's been watching it and he's well
into like the good shit now.
You should watch that, Chase, instead of watching
your stupid animal.
Did you just call me fucking Chase?
Well, this is the thing.
When I realized you haven't seen certain things,
you start to get infected by Jay.
You see, Jay just hasn't seen anything.
Jay's a handsome man though, so he has that going for him.
Which Jay?
Do I let him know that you feel that way or?
Yes.
Maybe he'll show up tonight and you can tell him.
Oh, Jay.
We should have Alcatism's rags.
Do you have a beer?
I've got some in the fridge right now getting cold.
We should definitely do, I'm gonna have some Malibu.
Someone in the Discord just said I've never seen
Chase and Jay in the same room.
It has happened, just not in the stream.
Oh sure, it's happened, okay.
You were there!
I don't know.
Hi, cat.
Hello.
I didn't say the cat could be on the show.
Well, you want me to eject him?
Yes, jeez.
Okay, Isaac, I'm sorry, you guys.
Need your cat, Isaac?
Well, big fan of Dead Space, obviously.
You know, Isaac said the Hebrew name.
Yeah, I don't care.
Yeah, is your cat from the Holy Land?
I mean, he's certainly golden like he's holy, so.
I don't know what that means.
Yeah, it doesn't.
Have you ever played a golden son in the Game Boy games?
Holy, like you're gonna have to walk me through that one.
Well, no, I mean, the real idea was if you ever played
golden son on the Game Boy Advance by Camelot.
Yeah, that.
I played the first one and I played the next one,
Lost Age, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I played that one.
You're all right, you're all right.
I haven't eaten as bad as well as I would have liked.
Isaac is where he first learned about the name.
Because of the protagonist of the first one,
character in the second one.
Yeah.
Oh, Chase, sorry to interrupt.
I looked into that, the Dunkey thing.
I watched Mark's whole video on it.
I thought he made some pretty good points in terms of
where Dunkey is kind of weak on his criticisms.
And I think it's more like an examples thing
and Dunkey's just not one for,
you know, like how if I'm like, there's a bad hitbox,
here's 2000 examples, Dunkey will be like,
there's a bad hitbox, here's one moving on.
And it's like, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Yeah, yeah, no, I agree exactly.
And yeah, Dunkey takes him saying the controls are like
perfectly fine and then a clip of him saying, yeah,
the controls on that thing doesn't work.
But it was pretty obvious because he says,
I will admit though.
Yeah, he says, I will admit that the vehicle,
Rags, does this statement seem contradictive to you?
The controls are perfect.
I will admit though, the vehicle controls are a bit wonky.
No, that doesn't make sense, that is contradictory.
They can't be perfect and simultaneously wonky.
But the implication by the sentence is that
it's the first half is staying the way it is
outside of this thing.
Like, saying I will admit,
the implication is that like,
oh, you're saying that it still stands
except for this one element.
Besides, he didn't even use the word perfect.
He said that it was tight, I think.
I just watched the video once and I watched it again.
It was just interesting that that's what Dunkey chose to do.
Because I don't know, I haven't tried the controls.
I don't really intend to.
Death Stranding doesn't entice me.
That's the funny thing is they turn walking
into a minigame, here we go, Death Stranding again,
everyone ready?
They turn walking into a sort of minigame
and then you get like power skeletons
that are like exoskeletons that like,
either let you run really fast like fucking sonic speed
or they let you run with more stability and more balance.
But walking should, I guess, kind of be the easy part.
I don't know, I haven't really sat down and done my draft.
Like, it's all good enough.
But it definitely just has you like pressing
on shoulder buttons and stuff like that
to like maintain your balance.
And if you don't do it within a certain timeframe
or you start to lose balance as you're approaching a wall,
then you will just fall over and lose all of your cargo
and some of it will get damaged
and sometimes you'll fail a mission as a result, so it's.
It's not a game for everything.
Do you know how you balance in real life
and it's so easy, you don't even have to,
like your brain literally doesn't even have to think
about it, but it's like a conscious mechanic in this.
Yeah, that sounds fun.
The more I hear about this video game,
the less I want to play it.
And see, that's the interesting thing.
Mark at one point talks about how people were inaccurate
on The Last Guardian, including Dunkey,
because they were complaining about Trico
not being responsive when that was the whole point.
I don't appreciate that defense,
the idea that you're trying to achieve something.
Exactly, they're like, we're trying to create
the experience that you're dealing with a real pet,
as in you go, hey dog, fetch,
and the dog looks at you like, huh?
And then you go fetch and then you drag the dog over to it
and point to it and then you come back and fetch
and then it finally does it and you're like, oh wow,
what a real life experience like you're with a real pet
and it's so fucking frustrating in video games.
You know how animals are annoying in real life?
Well, now they can be annoying in video games too.
You know how you can yell frustration in the real world?
Well, their virtual equivalent is just as shitty.
I wanted to love The Last Guardian,
but I spent so much time in that game being like,
hey, hey, do the thing I want you to do.
Doesn't that make you love it?
Doesn't that make you get a connection with him?
Aren't you?
Dude, AI is fucking complicated as hell.
I just, I enjoy reading about it,
but that would be a nightmare to actually try to program it
or even like fathom it.
Well, that's because you suck though.
Yeah, well that's why we pay money for video games.
We expect that to be good.
That's true.
Yeah, I don't know.
I just say though,
do you guys remember the Milo, Project Milo trailer?
Those are the Xbox, right?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
My cat is fucking having a tism right now.
He really wants food or something.
Thank you, baby.
But it's, yeah, like Project Milo,
that was such bullshit immediately from the get go.
Cause I remember as a kid, it was like,
you see the trailer and what's his name?
Peter Molyneux from Lionhead, Lionsgate, what the hell?
Lionhead, I think.
Yeah, he, oh, my mic settings are all messed up.
I'm putting my cat.
But he was just like,
oh, look at Claire.
She gave Milo the piece of paper.
She put it over above the TV.
And he got that paper in real time
with the process of an Xbox 360
and managed to materialize the sketch in the virtual world.
This is not acted.
That is Claire's real response.
She is genuinely impressed by what Milo has done.
And as a fucking like 15 year old, I was like, no.
Didn't they cancel it?
It just didn't go through.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Remember Fable?
I do.
Yeah.
Remember how the first one was good and the others were shit?
I wouldn't know because I don't hate on things, Rex.
I do.
Wow.
It's cathartic if anything else.
Cathodic?
That doesn't even make sense.
Cathartic.
Can I show you an amusing tweet?
It's one of the Discord links.
You may show me an amazing tweet.
I will put it on the screen as well.
So the discussion, I believe, was it related to me.
And the top part of it is the person commenting
about me in general.
The fact he makes videos with no bullshit is enough for me.
Wait, this is about you?
Yeah, that's why.
There's side reasons they don't like me.
What is research?
It's just like.
Yeah, no bullshit thinks that you're a terrible,
horrible leftist.
He does not like me.
He thinks I'm a leftist.
Reminder, no bullshit thinks that I am a leftist.
But are you a centrist, conservative?
I'm a classical liberal, I guess.
Oh, OK.
Certainly not a leftist.
I am just a faggot.
Yeah, same, same.
I don't have a.
So call me a leftist.
I'm like, whoa, I did not subscribe to that label, sir.
I'm an Ewok.
I guess I'm like a liberal in a sense.
It's just like, hey, just be nice to everyone, man.
Don't everybody do what they want to do,
unless they have an opinion I disagree with.
This second dick, you don't feel bad about it, bro.
He cares, man.
At least he's short.
Did you just say Mueller makes videos with no BS?
No BS hates Mueller.
Mueller's never made a video with him.
And the only thing closest when they watched his SJW moments
in Infinity War and tore it apart.
And the guy responded with this.
And obviously, I've cut them out just to be a friendly.
I just thought it was really funny.
Well, I'm wrong then.
Still think he's a bigot, and don't argue with you.
He's a bigot.
I still think he's a.
I don't even know what we're big at it against.
Everything?
Nothing?
All of the thing?
A bigot just means, like, I suspect
you're not as good of a person as you make yourself out to.
You hate people for the reasons that are unfair.
He's like, oh, OK.
It's a dog whistle.
What ever happened to cat whistles?
That's my.
I mean, if cats ever really needed whistles, all you need to go.
All you need to do is just go.
And they come running.
Like, shake a bag of treats.
You know, dog whistles are necessary because.
It's that one frequency that they have advantage over.
I was also sent two more.
This one I thought was amusing.
Two more, more like tumor.
The best way to describe how I treat Jay
politically is with a paraphrase from innuendo studios.
It doesn't matter if he's a fascist in his heart, his friends,
the friends he has, the content he takes part in is doing a fascism.
What what video is this on?
I don't actually know.
I just I was just it's just about Jay and I just find it amusing of studios.
I don't know.
But I just assume that like it's in relation to the FAB is.
Yeah, probably like they say it's not Jay's content.
Continues upon we are a fascism gentleman in the heart.
In our hearts, we are fascists.
Heil Hitler.
Do we? Yeah, basically doing.
But can you imagine how humorless of a cunt you have to be
to watch a stream of a bunch of dudes palling around, talking about movies,
making like slightly politically incorrect jokes
and just you're so uptight that you see that and you go,
these guys actually fucking hate minorities.
These are fascists.
They hate gays.
They want to lock up minorities.
They legitimately want Holocaust, too.
They want to institute slavery.
Well, you know, we said the false diversity is a bad thing.
So we fucked them.
Yeah, I guess we hate Abrams.
Wouldn't Jay Abrams have said, fuck you?
Or was that the other way?
He said Jay Abrams said,
if you hate the last Jedi because there's women in it, you're like a sexist.
I think I think that kind of what his quote was exactly, but pissed everyone off.
No, there was that one quote.
I think it was in a fucking red letter media or something like that video
where it's like there was just straight up a clip of one of them
in a big press conference or interview.
And he was just saying, if you are against forced diversity
in the new Star Wars, then fuck you.
And someone in the audience went, they say against forced diversity.
Don't remember exactly what the wording was.
But the whole idea is like, if you don't like women
or or the minorities, then fuck you.
And then a woman in the audience went.
Wait, I'm a woman.
Yeah, I like that.
And yeah, then there was another one.
This one's a little bit longer.
This is the last of my amusing comments for the day.
Yeah, I'm convinced the only reason Mauler made Jay a member of Efap
was so they had a token liberal in the group to add plausible,
plausible deniability against them being regressive, mean-spirited fuckwits.
That's news to me.
Yeah, I guess.
I mean, if it helps, I'm technically liberal, too.
I just don't care that much.
And I don't really like other liberals.
So like you're also a token, I guess, then.
Yeah, I can. I can be your token. That's fine. Sweet.
It's a damn shame because I, too, enjoy Jay's cinema
since takedown series and thought he was a genuine down to earth guy.
Then he made his critique of Maul's Black Panther video,
and the rest is history.
Everything, everything was ruined the moment we spoke to him.
Yeah, that was the one.
We corrupted Jay.
We did. He's got the he's got space cancer.
It's all over him.
No escape.
After the Jack's Saint, I assume, flare up unsubbed from Jay,
but not before leaving a civil and measured comment
expressing my disappointment at him for falling in with this crowd.
God, I imagine being that much of a I know.
I imagine like wanting to be around people who won't judge you
for everything that you just.
Looking to browbeat you all the time.
You're just a vessel they can score points with.
That's all. That's all you are to them.
Yeah. And just at every single moment, like your peers in jeopardy.
Like the slightest thing you do is like you have to
wait to hear back from the gallery.
Regardless, more fans are using the fact that Jay joined
if after criticizing him after he unlisted said video to score points
for more, as I saw in the comments of Gushan's video, first video on more.
Um, score points.
No, it's just reality.
We had someone be critical.
They came on with friends now.
That's just something that happened.
We use it as an example of how these things can end well.
You know, like a fucking adult.
Yeah, because a lot of people will be like, they don't end well.
And it's like, but they have ended well.
And this is that's just one example.
We've got several.
The X guy, sausage, do man.
Snowman gaming.
The blizzard was in the comments, I think, after we responded to him.
DX, I believe.
Just right.
I consider that technically a positive outcome.
Yeah, I guess there is a couple, not just Jay.
One thing I'm sure of is that with the massive egos like
Mueller and Rags have, it will be inevitable for the two to turn on each other.
And when they do, it will be cause for celebration.
It's not going to be too bad.
I mean, you know, let me turn on each other.
It'll probably be it'll be OK.
I mean, it'll be like, great.
Don't buy tickets.
People can enjoy the show, I suppose.
You know, it's funny, is a lot of these people, every everything that they see
and the way that they like
sort of visualize situations is like everything is a really elaborate coup
and everyone is like a fake piece of shit.
It's only doing things for like profit and like personal gain.
It's like, hey, dude, I know that's how you do things,
but that doesn't mean everyone else does them that way, too.
Well, it's like she lacks, you know.
Like as well as there was those using massive really.
That's a slur.
So I'm surprised they would just throw that out there.
I can't believe that.
And as for like massive ego, I should be like, isn't it
the sad by a lot of prominent YouTubers, but like to be
to be confident in front of the camera to be making content
that is something you're saying and expecting people to be interested in
or listen to whatever, then we've all got to have an ego to a degree.
I mean, yeah, you can't have no ego.
You have to have a sense of self in some level of pride
and some understanding that you do possess talents.
And yeah, have that to a degree.
If you don't, that's just that must be really unhealthy.
Yeah, then you won't be good.
If you have no ego whatsoever, you're probably not going to have much self-awareness.
You think these people have a lot of self-awareness?
I mean, I don't think they have a lot of self-awareness.
I think they're fucking retarded.
Yeah, I will say it does take a decent bit of bravery to go on camera
and like record yourself, especially if you look like
as mongoloidic as myself and many others do.
It's Quentin. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And Quentin is brave for putting his face in front of his face in front of a camera.
Braver than me. Yeah.
I'm getting that. Yeah, it's like.
Yeah, sorry, go on.
But like the ones that people we've responded to, they've got fucking
what I would call inflated egos themselves.
Like, yeah, a lot of them, they immediately think that they are the vampire hunter
that's going to drive the stake into Efap.
They're the righteous fury has they've destroyed us.
We're always just like, what was the argument?
Oh, no, we did that one last year.
We'll see you next time. Bye.
For all the anime fans out there in translation, they think that they are
the jotaro to our Dio.
They think we're Dio.
So there you go, guys. Now you can follow along.
You're welcome.
Yeah, mainstream trying to help.
But yeah, the I guess the idea as well that it's like it's inevitable
for them to turn on each other.
It's like, are you guys a part of like a group that is known for inviting?
Like the they eat each other sort of memes
that just keeps happening because they they out purify each other
and they also get conflicted on like certain principles can cross over
like certain rules about certain people and certain.
So like of their team, they could probably like someone.
I mean, ContraPoints probably be the classic example, right?
Got obliterated.
I believe she's left Twitter for the third time.
Everyone should leave Twitter.
Yeah, I know. Right.
But you know, like we want a story with that exactly.
So from what I remember, and this was the either first or second time
leaving Twitter, ContraPoints said.
When you go up to a group of people who are, quote unquote, woke,
they see someone like ContraPoints and then they'll be like, oh,
let's all get our pronouns out.
Don't want to hurt anyone's feelings.
And then she said that when she goes to a non-woke crowd,
there isn't that.
And they would just refer to her as she and everything.
And she's actually saying it's I think she was trying to say this.
I could be wrong paraphrasing
that the experience is actually smoother and more normal
with people who aren't even remotely aware of like wokeness.
And she got lambasted.
That is what I've noticed, too, that they make a huge deal about it.
Like it's that's like that's them.
That's their whole thing.
So they make this huge fucking song and dance about it
instead of what most people do.
And they're like, OK, like, all right, I guess.
OK, sure. Yeah, like I have trans friends.
And I think the best thing is they'll go, oh, my pronouns are they them.
But you can call me she like I don't care.
If they're like really understanding and lacks about it, I'm like, oh, OK.
I don't feel so nervous about it because I do want to be respectful.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, we had like, you know, this this
faux wall with like I hate everything for like near two years.
And it's been sorted now, or at least once the video is shown,
which should happen within the next few apps,
I'm just going to find the right place to do it.
That will have been sorted.
And how did it get sorted through talking?
Oh, right.
And I guess what I'm implying is like we're of a team.
That's like, hey, if there's a problem, do you want to have a chat?
Rather than fucking hate you, I'm never speaking to you again.
Yeah, you're you're an evil, terrible, horrible person and you must die.
So like, I'm not really too concerned about it.
I think that if there's a problem me and Rags have with each other
or with something in general, we'll probably talk about it.
However, if a friendship is to end, so it's not exactly the end of the world.
Happens with everybody.
There is no friendship that's immune to destruction because life without a fat.
Oh, I know. Right.
Like the fans would have to start watching.
Chase, can you start a show called like if happens every frame and anime?
If you'll call it like fat grumps.
That sounds like you're ripping off two shows at once.
Yeah, it's the idea.
I think that's despicable.
You've got more thinking of like the fan base split between Aaron and John Tron.
Oh, that was like a giant shit show and a half.
I remember I was there for all of that.
It's crazy. Me too.
It was kind of sad.
I really liked John Tron's doing all right.
Oh, he's doing it. OK.
And it's funny because Aaron has been like roasted by people for being way too woke.
And John's been roasted for being way too like alt righty.
They've both deviated from where they sort of started.
It's really interesting.
Oh, yeah. And for Aaron, it's only going to get worse
because John's kind of entered this area where like he doesn't really give a shit.
But Aaron has like just further lumped himself in with like the the seduce
in which they will just absolutely consume him alive at the soonest given opportunity.
He did the whole like I regret any jokes I made in the past
million years that they've affected people is like.
Yeah, he's very much a bootleg.
Like now that I've decided to join the tribe that will play me alive
for saying the bad things, I got to make sure I cover my ass.
Did I ever tell you guys that when I was younger and I used to I was like
15 and I talked to Aaron and he was like, I don't know, 20 or something like that.
But he would he would do a Mickey Mouse voice
and he would just scream the N word at the top of his lungs.
And it was like literally the funniest fucking thing,
because it was there would just be 20 minutes of silence
and then just Mickey screams the N word.
Oh, just like and like he would go.
Oh, we're releasing the collector's edition of Song of the South.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, how the times changed.
Oh, how the turntables.
Oh, the flukes have glooned.
Oh, there is something I want to show you guys in video form.
Quite amusing.
I'll give you I'll give you a link and then I will give you context.
So oh boy.
Monday, Matt and Jeremy have a feud of sorts.
I say it's probably not true.
Geeks and gamers, I guess.
But Monday, Matt's been making a lot of videos about the Geeks and gamers
fandom menace crowd, from what I understand.
Yeah. Oh, remember, everyone, for those of you don't know,
Monday, Matt thinks that Ryze Skywalker is great.
He's like, why do you have to be so mean to Ryze Skywalker?
And I think I think the poor guy probably actually went to a showing.
I was with a bunch of people who were like, yeah, this is steroids.
Like, yeah, yeah, that was a fun movie.
And he's like, people actually enjoy this movie.
You know, it's like, dude, dude, dude, chill out.
Like he makes another and they makes another video going.
I need a Sarkeesian gamer gate.
The Zoe Quinn gamer gate.
Is he still going with stuff like that?
Like, yes, he is.
And the people will go that long lost relevance.
I wonder if he gets more views with that.
Is that why he's doing it or is it just?
I have no idea.
But someone someone left a someone left a comment on his newest one about
Anita Sarkeesian gamer gate, and they're just like, bro,
this has been irrelevant for a long time.
You're just bringing it up to try to make it relevant again.
And then he said, oh, well, people send me messages about it.
And so I'm just like, I should cover this.
Or like, I only bring it up when they do.
It's like, OK, yeah, it's like, what is it?
Like two or three a day.
So it's like, oh, yeah, if you're going to cover whatever.
So all the context I have for this is that
Monday, Matt is calling like Jeremy out every other day on stuff.
And like Jeremy's had a couple of debates with him like live
and they don't ever stick like it'll be like, oh, yeah, OK.
That makes sense.
And then they leave in the next day.
It's like, well, with Jeremy geeks and gamers, Jeremy.
And so like I was sent this and I just thought it was really funny.
So the context, I guess, here is that there's a guy called Mad Max
who's running a stream and Matt is like sort of throwing shade at Jeremy.
And then Jeremy is like able to this is on that stream yard sort of thing.
And so with stream yard, you get an invite, you get to join the backstage
and then the host gets to add you in whenever they want.
I think that's how that works.
Kind of. Is that what we used?
Yes.
When we yeah, when we were with Wilkast bullshit, geeks and gamers,
sort of I imagine Ethan and Skyra as well.
Just fan to men to see people.
I think they're all using stream yard right now.
We still we're rocking with Discord like an OG.
That's how you do.
But I think a little overlay, a little little window, a little spacing.
Yeah, looking fucking good.
And so I think Monday, Matt's like been talking about it.
And then Jeremy's like, oh, I'll talk to him about it.
And then I'll just show you what happens.
But that's pretty much all the context I had.
So that's all you get. But I just find this amusing stream.
I don't have kill streams on my channel.
Well, I mean, to be fair, you'd make a lot more money if you did.
But I just say.
Oh, Jeremy is in my back stage.
Oh, boy. Oh, all right.
I'm going to go. I got it right on my phone.
Someone's dead anyway, so I'll talk to you guys.
Oh, wow.
My phone's almost like, wow.
I'm going to play that again in case people didn't catch it.
Like nice.
The second exit.
The second he mentions the jerry's in the backstage.
Matt's like, oh, go, go.
Oh, my phone.
I don't have kill streams on my channel.
Well, I mean, to be fair, you'd make a lot more money if you did.
But I just say.
Oh, Jeremy is in my.
Jeremy is in my backstage.
Oh, boy. Oh, all right.
I'm going to go.
I got it right on my phone.
Someone's dead anyway, so I'll talk to you guys.
My phone's almost dead, too, and I'm here.
All right.
OK, Jeremy.
I love how he jumps like the image of him like he chased him out of the room.
Yeah, he's just like the motherfucker.
Keep him out.
And also is like, OK, then let your phone die.
Exactly. Yeah.
Go until your phone's just out.
Convenient excuse.
Yeah, there's nothing really else to I just thought it was really funny.
And apparently Matt is just trying to point out that he has issues with him.
Hopefully, hopefully to get that sorted.
Also, man, have they ever been in a stream together or is Matt?
I think they have as Matt does not learn
what happens when he like live streams with people?
How could he get any worse?
Right. Right.
He's just like, well, they as well just fuck it up even more.
Pretty hit rock bombs.
So fuck it.
It's a strategy.
Um, this is a meme video I was made aware of,
and I'm pretty sure it's fine for copyright.
So so long reshoots and the general fuckery that went on with the rise of Skywalker
want us to wonder how much Disney will need to make in order to break even.
Now, while Disney is going to keep the actual numbers off the public record
for quite some time, we could probably assume that with an initial production
budget of 250 million dollars and with the extensive reshoots reported,
we can bump that number up to 500 million.
With those ballpark figures in mind, how do we calculate
how much money a film needs to make in order to break even?
Surely they just need to make back that initial production budget, right?
Not so fast, my friends.
You see, while it might seem logical to take that initial number and figure
that is the exact amount they need to break even, there are other costs involved.
Marketing, for example, is especially expensive,
especially with huge tentpole releases, let alone something as huge as a Star Wars film.
We also need to remember that the cinemas need to make money as well.
So we need to take their cut of the profits into account as well.
So when you tally up all of this additional bloat
to the overall amount spent on the film, you end up having to make back
about 2.5 times your original budget.
So with the rise of Skywalker, we start with 500 million, multiply that by 2.5,
and we end up with our final figure of 1.2.
It's a lot. I was with.
Has Total done anything since his woke video?
Is that still true?
Yes, he made a he's actually doing OK.
He made the best game of the decade being which of the waves.
Oh, yeah, that's that's which got 200 over 200000 views.
Oh, that's great.
And then his next video is it's on 5K, but, you know,
it's only just come out as his best console of the decade, PlayStation four.
Not even the pro, huh?
I mean, or I was thinking the best console that's going to be really tough
to be able to get any kind of like mechanical sort of way to figure that out.
I'm assuming he bases it mostly on exclusives.
At least that's what I got the impression of when I was sort of skimming through.
Pretty tough to vote for.
But sure, I'm happy with PlayStation four as well.
Well, I don't care what generation is 2010 plus.
I forget eight, I think.
I don't know.
I don't even assign like numbers to it or anything.
Chase, tell me what console came out in 2010.
Um, we you know, we I think might have been like a year after that or something like the.
No, I think people liked it.
It just looked like they had the marketing confused a lot of people, even me.
I thought that for years, the Wii U was an add on you bought for your Wii.
Yeah. And you know, it was the weirdest thing about it that really didn't help us.
They would always obfuscate like the actual size of the console.
Because for anyone who owns the Wii U, the tablet is like fine.
It's like a decent size.
Obviously, it's not anything mobile, so it's not a big deal.
And then you have the Wii U console itself that is fucking huge.
And it's just every time in all the marketing images, they always show the Wii U console
behind the screen like they're hiding how big it is from the screen.
And like for some reason, that always fucked me because I bought it.
I was like, OK, this is gigantic.
And there's just there's not enough like games on it.
Well, I mean, the switch did well, so they recovered just fine.
Although they were in trouble anyway.
We're in the proper good future now.
Oh, yeah, my new year is in two hours from now.
And you guys have it in ages from now, right?
Yeah, it'll be a bit later in about eight hours or so.
Yeah, eight hours for me.
Well, I mean, we could look at some memes, like a few memes.
Yeah, we can look at some memes.
Sure. I happen to like memes myself.
And obviously some of them are going to be pretty up to date in terms of the stream.
I quite like this.
Also, I have another I have another goofy oni George Lucas video
if you want to show that to the stream.
I like the one you showed me or?
Yeah, if you felt like it, I don't really care.
We could do that after memes if you want.
Yeah, you just do whatever you want.
You don't have a schedule.
This crazy train ain't got no brakes.
A long bone having to pass out those permissions to you.
That's nicer, though. Yeah, no, it's very kind.
You're going to be very relevant, our egg relevant meme.
That was a good one, too.
Well, I didn't see the saga on the day after EFAF.
And that was that was popping up the Ewoks thing, the Ewoks thing.
Did you have to explain it to them?
I did. I hope it went over smoothly.
It went over well.
He's my E word.
And this is the this is what I was talking about, man, the struggle.
What are they going to do for EFAF chat?
That's the real question, isn't it?
When we have memes that conflict, it's like, oh, no, so many choices.
You get to choose which one you like.
We've got we've got so much choice and means.
Just choose. Well, everyone.
Do do do do.
I prefer hello, my end words, because then you get the best of both worlds.
You get to say the word without actually saying the word,
but still pissing everyone off.
No, I like the Ewoks a lot.
Maybe it's because it's fresh.
It's one of the movie posters from that new one that's coming out.
So the Dawn World.
Oh, finally, I can have my done.
You seem pretty eager about that.
Look at those lips.
In this one, Don is Odin, though, I don't know.
Yes, you got to you hanging out with Thor just to get to the dawn.
Is that it?
Yeah, he is my ticket to Don's heart.
Makes sense.
I can't do the wrong command.
Do you be objective?
Oh, no, diabetes.
Diabetes has been that one really took off well.
Yeah, he's a very strong character.
People are starting to, you know, discuss whether he's supposed to be
the the series villain rather than a seasoned villain.
Pulling the strings, man. Pulling those strings.
Do you guys know what anime that's from?
No, isn't it?
I don't know, Jojo.
No, it's Code Geass.
Oh, I should know that.
And then it didn't any rage.
Did you guys see the I think we put it on stream.
Didn't we like the image of Chud Skywalker?
Yes. And there's a few more from that same way.
Why must they diabetes?
Hey, why us?
We're not actually responding to a video.
We're just hanging out.
If you want to jump in, let us know.
Oh, dude, Adam, what's up, dude?
Depends if he's free for his new year's.
Because he's a busy man.
Oh, my God.
Bilbo Frick.
I guess so.
Frick's got some scary Bilbo teeth.
Oh, no, Bilbo.
Bilbo, stop.
No, Bilbo, no.
Um, you're going to ruin C3PO's mammary.
I seek the chromosomes you speak of.
What is what is happening here?
What am I missing?
I don't know what that is.
Don't decipher it.
That's our job.
You know, you want to, Adam.
This is your one day off.
I want to say, is it because Quentin doesn't have enough
chromosomes or he has too many?
It must be something to do with that.
I don't know.
What up, Jay?
Like the yellow saber, though.
That's we following that.
How long will you be doing this?
It's longer than you would want to stay.
And you can leave whenever you want.
What's up, buddy?
You're in 10 hours.
He looks pretty terrified about that.
I mean, he's probably terrified both
before and after the the thing was said, you know.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
Look at this classic meme.
He's just he's just terrified because he's seen Quentin.
Does he care what he said about the Ewoks?
Because he's aware of him and he's seen his videos.
People are like, get him in the course.
Like, he's got it one, two first.
I can't do anything until he wants to.
This is your fault, Mahler.
It usually is.
I mean, I'll I don't know if I have him on Discord.
I'll send him the invite through Twitter if he wants it.
You may use at your displeasure.
Who are you bringing him?
That's Tony of Business, Jay.
I'm trying to invite him.
He's the one who said that.
Yeah, it was J.R.R. Martin's fault.
Oh, that was J.R.R. Martin's fault.
This is adorable picture.
Just wonderful.
Hope Jeb.
You know, Rick and Morty, where he requires himself to be a baby
so he can kiss himself as a baby.
Happy J.P.A.
Yeah, Jay, I know.
All you can reference is Rick and Morty.
Is this the only thing you've seen?
I know.
Baby.
See, that is the negative.
See, that is the positive.
Adam.
Hi.
Oh, my God.
That's all I get.
It's the new year.
Oh, it's quite the echo there.
Oh, is it?
Echo.
Echo.
Hello, Rick.
How are you doing?
I'm fine.
I'm not even on, like, a good set of treatments.
I can't hear you.
I can't hear you.
How about we try this again?
I got on my computer.
Hold on.
Oh, my God.
Hey.
Hey.
I have a feeling it's going to come back with, like, perfect audio to be, like, is that
better?
We're going to be, like, yes, that is better.
Discord and my phone just don't get along.
Yeah, no, it really tis me.
Like, I'll be, like, in a call with someone for five minutes, and I won't hear anything.
And it'll be like, oh, it disconnected.
And then I'll look at my phone and it will reconnect.
Like, as soon as it's away from my head.
That's a weird thing it does.
It works worse on my, I have a MacBook that I bought.
New, sorry, not new, used.
I don't buy, I don't give Apple any money.
Yeah.
And Discord just does not.
A lot of things don't just MacBooks.
But with Discord, they, oh, it's getting just the right audio to work, getting a microphone
to work, getting a headset to work.
It's like pulling teeth.
The phone works better than that.
I've never had any problems on my Mac with Discord, although I've only used it once,
so what do I know?
Pulling teeth doesn't hurt if you're dead.
That's true.
Yeah, but these, but the MacBook was alive.
Oh, you just always know exactly what to say, don't you?
Fucking counted that argument.
Done and done.
In zero seconds flat.
Also, this meme is like underappreciated.
I feel sorry for anybody who discovers eFap and wants to understand the lore when they're
at like an episode 150 or something.
It'll be like, this is, um, they'll have to have someone make season recaps or something.
There is a playlist of like the full eFap extended universe.
How are they gonna get through all that?
There's someone called Boobface, and it is, I want someone to like tally up how long it
is.
I desperately want that.
Yeah, because it'll take some time to know all of the additional language we've created,
but hey.
There's fucking screen tear in it.
It's got all of the great debate and everything.
Not so great debate.
The screen tear, hey, that's the podcast that you did.
That was proto eFap.
Well, yeah, I guess everything we did before eFap was proto eFap to a degree.
Kind of.
Because it was on Wolf's channel that we had like the first eFap thing.
Yeah, we had to like, we had to like emergency bring over memes because we were referencing
memes that no one had any reference for me.
Like we have to recover these videos.
Memes.
We need memes.
We need memes.
More memes.
Oh my God.
People won't understand the context of our memes.
Exactly.
Like this one, for example, is a Resident Evil 4 meme, but repurposed as a Star Wars,
the Rise of the Skywalker, the meme.
Excellent stuff.
Legitimately did not even occur to me that that was Leon and I.
Why are her panties down?
Well, because the joke is she's like, I want to fuck you, that he's like the way fag.
Because he's like, he seems to be a loon.
He's like, hey, Leon, you want some overtime?
And no, no, he said he got it.
He was just like.
No, I was going to say, he seems to be aloof throughout the whole game that she seems to
have an interest in him pretty significantly.
But, you know, no, not in Resident Evil 4.
He doesn't really display anything.
That's literally what I said.
Is it she liked him?
There is it not from her.
She doesn't really do much.
That's kind of like it.
Oh, well, I would disagree with that.
I think I think if you play the game, it does.
She she could totally be implying she's got an interest in Leon at several moments.
But he seems like like like the joke, I assumed, was that he's so like against it that he
sees like an attraction for a woman as gay because of anything she like yells at him
for looking up her skirt and stuff like that.
Oh, well, that's I always assume that was like an Easter egg.
What what does she say that would lead you to think that well, I would have to replay
the game to get you a specific reference, but I assumed the it was mostly accepted
because that's where the meme is derived is that he like seems to be just so unaware
of her advances or doesn't really want anything to do with it.
Someone. Yeah, I have I have no idea what that.
Someone just said, hey, Chase, get mad again.
I'm just going to talk about I like this meme, by the way.
That is a really good mother.
Yeah, they make a they seem like they'd be similar to another genetically.
They seem like if they were a very important movie, Bob.
I just love that.
That's not true.
Like face masks.
They contain nothing that's the amount of rage is not already possessed.
That's a good one.
It's a copy of my comp.
So sacred Arian texts.
This is so this is ironically like one of the sort of pieces of bitch from movie Bob
that people say like, that's me secretly wearing it.
That's a place in Wales.
No, no. So God.
There's this this degrees to this meme.
So you got the big picture merchandise, which is just awful.
I make fun of it.
Someone takes out of or makes out of me, I guess, wearing it.
And then they put me in a postcard in a place in Wales to imply I've been secretly
spotted wearing the merch, even though I hate it.
That is that is the meme.
I like to think this is your version of flashing.
Yes, revealing revealing.
I am pro movie Bob.
You want to see the big picture.
And then you like people are like, oh, my God, is he going to flash me?
And you're like, you're waggling about.
You're like, you're about to open your buttons.
And I'm like, oh, my God, he's going to flash me.
And then you reveal that.
And it's much worse.
This this is the result of people saying that chat needs to have googly eyes.
And there you go.
Chat is a character now.
I think that makes chat much more palatable.
It would allow chat to be very expressive.
Yeah, it's much friendlier like that.
Seems to be like this version of Shadow on better.
Yeah. Yeah, we should hang out with chat more.
Yeah, that's all right.
This is deleted scene, a screenshot of a deleted scene from Rise of Skywalker
where they just explained how he survived the fall.
Well, with the white outer glow and everything, the CGI isn't finished, obviously.
Yeah, it's all up around the edges.
It would be so funny if in concept like someone was really bad.
Whatever they don't work to a finished product,
like all of their concept is terrible.
They show JJ this.
They're like, try to imagine it, but different.
He's like a robot.
Surfing down to the planet surface to start squinting.
To be the reason Palpatine was so easily defeated in trials.
You don't know, do we?
Fucking epic.
If you got them as pilots, they ain't going to know the fucking way.
It's true.
Surfing is only one of many of the Emperor's talents.
I don't even know what to make of this one, but it's clearly extended Quinton law.
He's a puppet.
I think so.
He's a fat, ugly puppet.
I guess this is more remiss as to how Quinton's just
his strings being pulled by the master puppeteer, Diabeto.
I think it's season six.
It'll probably be revealed that like we defeat Diabeto
and then someone was controlling him the whole time.
I just I can't get away.
Oh, my God, boy.
Yeah, that sounds better.
Yeah, it does look good.
Sounds so much better.
Sounds so nice.
I just love movies.
Everybody has a little soy face.
Great. All right.
Celebrating and surviving another year on this planet.
We're prepping for another decade.
Hey, that's the thing.
Yeah, I don't care about decades.
I'll be streaming all the way until the next decade.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
See you next.
Well, you see, you know, hey, don't make those jokes.
Something decayed.
Oh, so fucking glad I was too young to remember these jokes
being made about the millennium.
You remember what anyone here remember?
Why 2K?
Yes, yes.
I remember the Simpsons references to it.
I was never watching.
I remember that episode, but I would have seen it as repeats.
Remember the old Y2K.
Oh, damn.
Computers nearly done.
Blowed up.
Yeah, your computers are going to blow up and kill everyone.
It's going to.
The whole world's going to read.
It's amazing thinking back to 2000.
The fear was we're too connected.
Computers control too much.
Well, I guess we ended up embracing it.
Puppet gif where it looks away.
I wish I knew.
Yeah, I was I was just in bed.
It's like quarter after two p.m.
here. I was not far.
See, we got a cream of the crop today.
Me and Rags are like, let's stream and like chase blunders in.
Like, oh, I guess I can hang up.
Jay is like, give me a sack.
And then you're like, I was sleeping, but sure, it's like you set my alarm
because I thought the stream started an hour earlier than it did.
I technically woke up around noon, but then I stayed in bed
and went on my phone and watched some YouTube shit,
even though I have things to do today, but.
But it's a it's a Tuesday's.
Yeah, nobody has anything to do on a Tuesday.
What are you talking about?
No, this is what I'm doing.
I know we're going to hear from New Year's American.
I think it's like, why is there a dinosaur thing?
Why? Why is the Neapolitan ice cream?
Well, that's that's a little foot from a land before time.
What else I got to do with movie ball?
Because movie Bob's a dinosaur of an old era.
Ah, nice, nice.
He's still hanging in, hanging in there.
I just I love that every single picture with movie.
Bob is just him making like the chubby soy face.
That's what that is used to.
Yeah. Yeah, it's me, Moby Bob.
You just upset because you're in this next meme.
So where are all these memes coming from?
This is community made memes.
We tend to check them out as well
and try and decipher what they could possibly mean.
I'm the leader of the Ewoks.
Is it because I'm really knowledgeable about anime?
Yeah, knowledgeable about how to control E words.
Oh, no. Jesus, I control all of the Ewoks.
That's too deep.
Oh, my God, Fortia.
He hasn't been here in like 50 years.
He hasn't been here in days.
Everyone's rolling in there, I'm here.
Yeah. Also, look, Chase got an art made about him
because he complained that it wasn't enough about him already.
Chase, you wear a vest.
Is that your little vest?
Yeah, he does wear a vest.
Everyone's think he does.
He thinks he's from like fucking 100 years ago, whatever.
That's when. Yeah, that's when they wear vests.
I got little fins.
So that was the same guy who made
that was the same guy who made the Chud Skywalker sketch.
I like his stuff.
Well, I was going to say he's made loads of fun stuff.
And the next one, yeah, I love that weird thing about the sequel movies.
They call it a trilogy.
I'm not your son.
Why is he going to picture himself on his shit?
I think I made the joke about that with like Jerry from Rick and Morty.
See, I can reference it to Jay.
No, you can't.
I feel funny.
I did.
Wonderful. It's also a little tragic.
Also, yeah, Jay, appreciate not Jay.
Chase, appreciate you got you got made about you right now.
Do it.
I'm going to appreciate that.
You can't see it, but you can get the general sense.
But I really I appreciate it.
There you go. He appreciates it.
Drag that. When am I getting on?
I have to just complain, right?
Yeah, pretty much.
OK, so make it like you can't be this is a very just very well made art.
I feel just you can't you can't appreciate that.
You might not agree with with the implications of it,
but I just think that the art itself is very, very well drawn.
Oh, the caricature.
Oh, my God.
That's actually pretty.
That's horrifying.
Oh, my God.
He's got a little sangas.
Oh, God.
Goodness.
Who's that by?
Says is it Pitt Patterson?
Very, very you could do caricatures.
You should go for it.
Assuming you don't already.
Um. Very, very, very cool.
Does he have a sextal calendar?
Oh, do you mean because of the cross hatching thing?
No, because of the face on the calendar.
What are you on Rose Tico? Yeah.
What are you talking about?
Do you think he has a Rose Tico sextal?
No, that Rose Tico, this artistic rendition of Rose Tico
looks like the sextal he has.
But where's the calendar to come in?
It's a calendar.
Oh, I thought it was like a calendar.
Never mind.
It looked calendary with a little symbols beneath it.
Hey, fap.
Extended universe three.
I think that's a reference to.
Good.
Rat.
That's see, that's one.
If you don't have any kind of translation going,
you just fucked.
You're like, what the hell is this?
You're like, you got to know the Beams to Dawn.
That's true.
That's from an artist who did a Jay image too.
Jay, you're aware of this one, yes?
An artist?
An artist, yes.
Oh, yes.
Well, that's my profile picture on Twitter now.
Our audience is primarily made up of artists.
Yes.
Autists and autists.
And some of the guests.
And the host.
Yeah, so it's pretty neat.
What do you, you've taken that
as your profile for now, right, Jay?
But not right now,
because you wouldn't want to ruin your Christmas spirit.
I'll let you know what, no, it is right now,
because I'll let you know, right.
The reason that I've got that as my profile picture
right now, I asked dude, it's like, it's a pretty good one.
I was like, I was looking for some fan art
to make my profile picture,
because I'm currently in England, away from my home.
Where do you normally live?
Scotland.
Scotland?
Aren't those the same thing?
I will throw fried,
I will throw the deep fried food at you.
Oh my goodness.
But I don't have a high quality version
of my profile picture at the moment.
So I needed something else.
So I chose my favorite fan art, I made it my picture.
What is your fursona, Jay?
It is a rhino.
We've been over those.
A rhino with-
I know, I just wanted to-
Big titties.
Like for the record and everything.
For the record.
Someone made a, it's about time for an objectivity backhand.
Is that implying that I'm with the chat
or I'm going to slap the chat?
Cause my goodness.
I think it's implied that you're very violent.
I'm a very violent man according to this meme, yeah.
So those little buttons on the back of my hands,
when I backhand somebody, they activate
and they like explode or something.
How violent does this get?
It's a reverse, it's a reverse Iron Man blaster.
You backslap them and just go, pew.
I was just thinking of like the Dragon Ball Z androids,
but like opposite.
Cause they have them inside their palms
and they like suck people's life energy out of them.
Yeah, so you always reference the super gay nerdy thing.
Yeah.
I mean, hey, at least DBZ is like popular, you know?
That's what anyone knows.
Nevermind.
Yo, sequel haters trying to kill episode eight.
And the sequel fans like, hey,
Disney comes in with episode nine, kills-
Sequel?
A little shit eating your head like you need to eat it.
We did it.
See, I have a theory that episode nine
is what people who love TLJ thought,
people who hate TLJ wanted instead.
It's just like everything gets bigger for no reason.
All of the fucking-
Yeah, that's what episode nine is,
is the caricature straw man-
You didn't like last yet,
so obviously you wanted the rise of Skywalker.
It's polar opposite.
But there was no scene of Luke jumping around,
slashing all the AT-ATs with his lightsaber.
That's what we always wanted.
Yeah, that's what I was told that-
But there was Palpatine.
I wanted that,
but so many people-
There was the same thing with Palpatine.
Oh, was it now?
Oh.
I agree.
I haven't been-
You just agreed with me around.
That's how facts work.
I haven't been here for all of the discussion
regarding episode nine.
Do you guys think it's worse or better than TLJ?
I mean, it's like-
It's the best movie ever made.
Do you think it's worse to be stabbed in the face
with a knife or stabbed in the face with a sword?
Few movies have brought me as much enjoyment
as Rise of Skywalker already.
It's like the Batman of theaters, or Batwoman, sorry.
Hey, is it cool if I call you Adam YMS,
or do you wanna be called YMS?
I was gonna say, did you laugh at all
when you saw the film on your perfectly legal theater copy?
Yeah, I mean, I was kind of zoned out watching it,
but the pinata animations were really cool.
I thought that was a really good choice.
Your fucking video, more than like just over half of it
was just making fun of the pirate copy.
That's what you gave a shit about Star Wars at this point.
Yeah, I think I lucked out
by not actually being able to see it in theaters
because this is the one movie where I could watch a camera
and nobody would give a shit.
Like literally any other movie,
people would be mad being like,
oh, you didn't get like the whole experience of the film.
How could you comment on the film?
But nobody was mad about this, so.
Oh yeah, and you saw the rise of Skywalker in theaters,
surrounded by people booing and cheering
with your popcorn and your SOTY pop, right?
Then you would have sucked out everything that there is.
You would have got the full experience
just as Disney intended.
Come and see Rise of Skywalker
until we've seen it in the extended cut in 3D.
Oh, I saw mine in 3D, I forgot.
I hate it, I hate 3D.
I didn't mean to buy a 3D ticket, I guess I did.
I've done that before.
I didn't think about checking.
What did Palp's Lightning look like in 3D?
Was it cool?
It just, it looked like annoying,
like everything does.
Annoying?
How does something look annoying?
It looked like something I respected.
It's just, what a pain in the ass to watch.
Just cold sounds like you were just watching the movie.
He handed me a ticket and then he handed me
to the guy there, he's like, here's your 3D glasses.
And I'm like, wait, 3D glasses, this movie's in 3D?
He's like, oh God, no.
I'm like, fuck.
And I started looking around the theaters
for the other showings, hoping it was the one
that was really close to me that happened
to not be in 3D that I could sneak into.
There wasn't, I was like, well,
looks like we're biting the bullet on this.
Looks like we're seeing it in 3D.
So yeah, that was great.
That was fun.
So Adam, was it better or worse than TLJ?
My personal opinion is that it was worse.
The Last Jedi is something that I'll never watch again,
but there are some aesthetic choices that I like.
I do like the imagery of the red, salt, chip, whatnot.
I think that there are some, I guess,
it's a more entertaining movie,
whether or not you want to call it better or worse.
Whereas the final film, I was just like, so done.
The Last Jedi had some moments where I was like, okay.
Even though this is dumb, I'm not bored out of my mind.
Whereas this last one, I was just so uninvested,
just ready for it to be over.
I thought The Rise of Skywalker was much more entertaining.
A lot of that was, because I was laughing at it
and I was just, it was so terrible it was entertaining,
but it wasn't like frustrating entertaining.
And a lot of that standard, like,
oh my God, things are happening.
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, explosions, lights.
And you're like, ah, yeah.
It helped that I watched it at like fucking five
in the morning when I was already deliriously sleepy.
So I was just like, okay.
And everything that was happening.
It's just funny to look back on that.
Just, is there a more disjointed
and mess-filled trilogy out there?
Like, people would probably reference stuff like,
maybe the Matrix trilogy or...
I heard Sakharabi.
Well, at least the Matrix trilogy,
whether or not you want to call it disjointed,
at least it was like the same people with one kind of idea,
even if the ideas weren't all that well-formulated.
This trilogy felt like conflicting ideas
that were not coordinating at all,
kind of just arguing over what the series should be,
which is not what you should do
if you're going to have a cohesive story,
you know, the same narrative
going throughout multiple films.
You should probably agree on what the whole story should be
before you start making the movie, in my opinion.
I watch a lot of terrible shit
and I genuinely can't think of anything.
The only thing I can think of,
and it's obviously not in film,
because why would it be,
is everyone knows Final Fantasy.
Final Fantasy 13 was the one they made
where they just, the entire formula was changed.
They changed the battle system.
They made it extremely linear.
Like, there was no, the story was needlessly convoluted
and needed to look up a codex to piece together
what the fuck basic shit was even happening.
And everyone hated it.
It scored really low.
And then they made two more.
Yeah, but there's no implication of like a trilogy there.
Like this is, when you make a trilogy
and you say from the first movie
that there's going to be three films
that are a part of the same story,
you're essentially implying that each film
is like a piece of this overall story.
Whereas like Final Fantasy 13, correct me if I'm wrong,
is just basically its own sequel, its own game.
Yeah, but yes.
But then they made Final Fantasy 13-2 and 13-3.
Oh, but did they start that with the promise
that that's what they'd be doing
or did they just kind of decide after the fact?
I'm actually not 100% sure.
I just know that they kept going
and everyone was just screaming for them to stop
and they just said no, just kept doing this.
I never played the game,
but I worked at Blockbuster when it came out.
And I remember the one disc PS3 Blu-ray
versus the three disc Xbox 360.
They had Leona Lewis' My Hands tie into that.
I remember I saw like my dad was watching basketball
back in the day and they had like big, beautiful J-pop
lightning emblazoned on the fucking side
of a basketball court.
Leona Lewis' My Hands was just blaring
in between commercial breaks
and I was just like, who are they marketing to?
And it's just like one of the gayest games
in existence right now.
I remember when games used to have multiple CDs
and a part of me really does miss that
where you're playing a game and you get to,
you're kind of getting halfway through-ish,
things are starting to get serious.
And then it says like, all right, please insert discs too.
And you're like, oh yeah, going down.
It's, oh, I like that feeling.
It's like a tangible mark of progression.
Yeah.
Kind of, yeah.
Like, all right, here we go.
You're in the second half.
Like, oh, it's getting good.
Metal gear and all that.
You know, just to come back to that comment
that like you should plan it out before you do it thing.
Like a lot of different people have said that
and it's totally true.
I just never thought we'd get to the point
where it's like probably shouldn't have creators
that hate each other working on each movie.
We should actually hate each other.
I mean, I think they at least hated their ideas.
Wow, so it was like a creative resentment.
JJ being like, hey, it'd be pretty interesting to know
which of the famous people Ray's father, mother is, right?
And then JJ was, right, was like, nah, lol.
And then JJ was like, excuse me?
What the fuck?
Then he was like, what did you do with Snoke?
And he's like, nobody, fuck it.
Like, what the hell, man?
I don't know.
I just think that your stupid mystery box still mattered.
That he was like, oh, do you?
Do you?
Well, you know what, you know what I think?
Oh yeah, yeah.
Well, my buddy Mark here, he's going to tell you up.
This weapon deserves more respect.
Ryan, more than Ryan hates JJ, to be honest.
JJ did the high day to him, he has all of the like,
I mean, JJ laid all of the like threads out for him
to continue on and he just cut them all up.
So when JJ got the film back again, he was like,
okay, so what the fuck do I do now?
I have nothing to continue on with.
I just find it so confusing
that this could happen in the first place
because with such a gigantic factory machine,
such as Disney, you'd think that they'd have a tight rein
on what each of these films would be.
But it seems as though too much creative control
was actually a bad thing in this scenario.
Yeah, we hear all the time about house studio.
No, it's not too much creative control.
It's not too much creative control.
It's too much creative control given to Ryan Johnson
and JJ Abrams.
That's the creative control is great.
Just don't give it to idiots.
Really quickly, sorry to interrupt.
CynicalReviews is in chat and he says,
have a good one guys, sending all my man love
from the grim north.
Oh my God, you're from North Korea?
Oh my goodness, be careful.
I don't think they're, I don't think, I think EFAP is bad.
Oh my God, EFAP is probably banned in North Korea.
It's almost certainly banned.
Isn't YouTube banned from North Korea?
It's the one thing I like in North Korea.
They fucking love EFAP.
They're big fans.
They're not banned in North Korea?
Is life banned?
I think Germany banned the Nazi vampires.
The man I saw him go up here being.
I do, I guess I got an arch in them.
Well, you should have thought twice before.
I'm trying to impress people.
What would you do if Kim Jong Un sent you a super chat?
Would you read it?
Oh yes.
Kim Jong Un, please come on EFAP.
Imagine not reading a super chat because it's just Kim Jong Un.
Jay, didn't you ask me the other day
what would we do if Hitler came on?
It's like, we wouldn't have to do anything, probably.
You just, we'd be like, Hitler, what do you think of like,
how you feeling?
Fuck your brain.
What do you think about Star Wars?
Because I want to get Hitler's opinion.
The obvious question to ask would be,
what do you think about Star Wars?
And if we actually got a story where he'd see all of them
and he was just like, I don't know, they're okay.
He'd be like, oh my God, they're okay.
The varying degrees of quality, I suppose you could say.
Hey, Hitler, hey, Hitler.
Who do you think's gonna be the, hey, Hitler, hey, Hitler.
He's like, I very much enjoyed the themes
of The Last Jedi Imprisonment.
Like, you could say, hey, Hitler, more please, just for me.
I wonder what Jack thinks, I wonder.
For who else?
I wonder what Hitler would think of the Wolfenstein games.
I wonder if he would like them or not.
He plays them all and he comes into the chat.
He's like, wasn't that funny.
I feel like I could have done better.
She didn't even ask me if I wanted to voice me.
There was a similar feedback of me in it.
I'd never even considered conquering Venus.
We didn't have mechs, okay.
A lot of people forget, but you'll go to like Venus
or Mercury in the second Wolfenstein.
I keep forgetting that because that game was so not good
that you go to Venus and it's like, you just forget.
I remember going to the moon in a new order
and it was great.
Well, that sounds like Iron Sky.
Iron Sky.
Have you seen Iron Sky?
Have you seen it?
We don't watch the children's cartoons, Jay.
Yeah, it's a movie about space Nazis meant for children.
That's fucking great.
You put that on a shirt, Rags, people bought it.
But what?
Space children and tattered wizards.
Yeah, and it's the format of it is bad too
because it's a black shirt with small lettering
that you have to get close to and they're like.
Well, it's a reference to steer boys, isn't it?
Do you guys ever like lay awake at night
wondering like if Nazis are ticklish
and if so, where would they be most ticklish?
Of course Nazis are ticklish.
Under the armpits probably.
They go, ooh.
Yeah, but you can't tickle yourself
underneath the armpits.
What the fuck are you talking about?
You can't tickle yourself.
I'm sorry, like how is this not a reasonable discussion?
You can't tickle yourself anywhere
except in your ding dong.
No, with the bottom of my feet,
I could tickle the bottom of my feet.
Really?
Yeah, but I can't do the armpits now.
No, I'm doing it now, it kind of works.
Yeah, like if you try to tickle yourself,
it's kind of like a weird uncomfortable uncanny.
It's not like a true tickle like someone else would do to you.
It's just kind of like a stop.
I wish Hitler was here so he could ask him
where he likes to be tickled most.
Yeah, I really want to know.
My sides are particularly sensitive.
Particularly.
Oh yeah, the sides, yeah.
That used to be, oh, mmm.
All I have to do is just,
I'll just like hug my girlfriend from behind
and I'll just fucking jab her in her sides
and she'll just slap me.
Like, no.
People would do that thing where they kind of,
they hit beneath your rib cage on your sides.
At the same time, they'd hit,
they're like the tips of their fingers
and it's really, really uncomfortable.
Do it to yourself now as hard as you can
just so you can relate to my experiences.
Even if you bleed, it's okay.
Oh my God, if you do it hard enough to where you bleed,
you need to go to a doctor.
I poked myself in the stomach so hard I bled.
I could taste the iron in my blood.
Also someone in chat is saying get ER in here
and have Chase and ER talk about anime.
If you think ER didn't talk much last time,
imagine him in a call with someone
he doesn't even know.
Adam's a big anime fan, right?
Nope.
Nope.
Well, we talked about the Death Note anime in a podcast
about dead flick.
There's some anime that I like.
Death Note would be the one.
Yeah.
So he's like half a weeb or demi-weeb?
Like maybe a 16th weeb.
Okay, not bad, not bad.
Still has social skills.
Yeah, I could bring eight in.
Yeah, you gotta lose those if you go full weeb.
I could bring eight and an ER in here,
but then we'd have eight people at the same time.
And I just, I don't know.
I don't know.
Rags, what are the rules on this?
What are the rules on this?
When you say this, what do you mean?
On this?
Consult the eFap handbook.
I don't know, I was busy.
I was trying to Google what the official name for Simi is.
What is it?
I'm still looking.
Because you have flaccid and you have turgid.
Wait, hang on, turgid is the scientific name for a hard-on?
I think so.
Yeah.
That was just like, I mean, I guess phallus
is just the scientific name for a cock in general.
I'm pretty sure penis is the scientific name for a deck.
Well, you know.
Or schlong, long or hard-on.
It sounds like the Latin root.
I don't know.
Longenheimer is the German, right, I think, Jay?
What is it?
Schlongenheimer.
So, yes.
I got a medical news today.
Average penis length is revealed in new study.
So, do we want to take guesses and see what the average penis?
6.8, 17 inches.
Holy fuck, Chase.
Did I actually get it?
No, I was like, damn.
That's pretty big.
That is a big penis.
That's a big penis?
Casually tosses out, yeah, just shy of seven inches.
And I'm like, damn.
I'm just using my own reference to this saying.
The average erect penis length is 5.16 inches.
Yeah.
What the hell is that in normal terms?
It is 13.12 centimeters.
That is very tiny.
I guess it's people who are really diminutive, aren't making a big deal about it, so they
slip under the radar.
Are there just more people with micro penises than there are with like megadongs?
Well, I guess the average person has less than two hands, so.
The average person is dead.
Oh, my gosh, they have the hands, the feet, they lack a whole bunch.
You don't know that the average person hasn't been born yet.
That could be depending on how many people are going to be born in the future.
Are they all is it?
Are you are you dead if you haven't been born yet?
I don't think so.
Are you just unalive?
No, you're not.
You're not dead if you if you were never alive or while we're talking about this,
can you zoom in on that lower left panel in the comic of just like Disney with like
the shit eating evil grin?
No, I will not do that.
I really want to close up on him.
Next time I'm erect, I'll look down and I'll say, you know what?
This means that, you know, mathematically speaking, there's some poor guy out there
with a small hands to average with no hands and the small penis who's dead,
who has to who has to be the mathematical opposite of the numbers line up.
It's good to be alive with hands in a car.
Or maybe it's shit and I just don't know any alternative.
You could say they go hand in hand together.
I don't know. What do you mean?
I just want to speak upon.
It's good. I got that, Jay. I got it. Thank you.
I don't know if the study took into account women for average penis.
So like, actually, everyone's walking around with tinge cocks.
So they're doing some girls have very large clits.
Not a joke.
Oh, happy new year, everyone.
Yeah, happy new year.
Oh, yeah, it's happy new year here in 20 minutes.
Yeah, we get to ring it in with somebody.
We got a ways to go for me.
We got another like seven hours.
Well, the important people get to celebrate it like it's fine.
Oh, wow. OK, I'm going to get to celebrate it.
Well, isn't that subjective?
Unless something terrible happens the next seven hours.
My God, Aiden is in the chat, apparently.
Yeah, Aiden and E.R.
And that's why I'm like, who do I boot to get those awesome people's in?
Maybe put yourself in jail.
Yeah, how? Yeah, baller.
How come you never get kicked?
How come it's always somebody else?
You never get kicked because this is the argument that will tear you apart.
I'm the apex guest.
Have you guys talked about that thing?
We did. Well, I think, oh, about how we're going to tear each other apart
and be each other's throats and it'll and they will celebrate that day.
I feel like they might be projecting.
Their inability to deal with other people.
They wouldn't. They wouldn't do that.
Yeah, they wouldn't tear them.
They wouldn't tear each other apart over tiny differences.
My favorite thing is to see like every time I do anything,
they like assume some random ass motivation for me.
Like they think that I I saw a comment on movie circle check
saying that the only reason I hate on Captain Marvel is to impress smaller.
That's not going to impress me.
Your argument is going to impress me.
I hope Senpai Mahler notices me getting that God awful.
Hey, I hated the movie, too.
And I'm like, that's so fucking hard.
Oh, that's that's literally how it works, right?
People are telling me to check out John Boyega's Twitter.
All I'm seeing, I don't know if this is what I'm supposed to see, but
he's posted like Star Wars romance and he's got a screenshot of
the Kylo getting stabbed and then fighting.
I don't know if the implication there is supposed to be that it's kind of weird.
But then someone posted to him, you're still a misogynist.
And then he posted back and you're an idiot.
But everyone's like, oh, my God.
Yeah, he's getting really popular right now.
He's just I think he's a lot of he's done with Star Wars now.
So you can start saying stuff, you know,
I'm getting stuff like, John,
I supported all ships from fans during the promo.
The fans created Finpo.
Go take up your issues with Disney irritant.
Oh, I can't fucking wait for John Boyega to be in good films again.
He also said, y'all some ugly ass inbreds for real.
Get off my page.
Yeah, I remember being like, can you shut the fuck up, please?
Oh, it's so satisfying to watch like just talk like a normal person on Twitter
instead of like PR person, I guess. Yeah.
So grateful to be part of this hashtag bless like all that.
I get the impression from John Boyega that he's like a very just real dude,
that he's not one of the fucking corporate guys.
That's made very apparent.
Wasn't that the one interview where he's just like, I'm not getting Disney plus.
He just fucking says whatever he wants.
Yeah, it's like they're.
So I guess with since we're talking about John Boyega,
the Disney plus, the Mandalorian season two,
they said there would be people from the sequel trilogy in it.
So yeah, so he must.
He he said he would never be Disney plus.
So I don't think it's going to be him.
Maybe. Should we take like a take a little
a little gas to see who can that be the new bet?
That could be the new bet.
Now that the episode nine one crashed and fucking burned.
Well, hey, Wolf, what that episode I bet is not bad.
Along with the final decision.
Ray was the most inconsistent character of episode nine.
Who would you voted for, Jay?
I said. And who did you vote for?
I voted for Finn originally.
What would you who would you say was the most inconsistent character of the film?
I mean, excluding Kylo, probably Ray. Yeah.
Hmm. What about you, Adam?
You care about this a lot. I know you do.
Do that.
Let's just think of the steep thinking right there.
It's given. He's full on it.
No, he just woke up and we had an aneurysm
from hearing all the autism.
So I guess I'll call this the Mandalorian bet.
And it'll be that you're going to choose one.
And obviously there could be more than one cameo or character.
It doesn't matter. Multiple people can be right. That's OK.
So, Jay, you're going with Maz Kanata, are you? Yeah.
All right. Who's up next?
Yes, Maz Kanata.
It's not a bad guess.
Let's see.
Maz Kanata is probably a pretty solid answer.
Could be Phasma.
Because if this takes play, Phasma.
Oh, my God, that could be true, though.
I guarantee you one episode of Mandalorian
would actually make her an interesting character.
Like, it's probably what would happen.
I'm going to I'm going to go with Maz Kanata, too.
I think that's a really good answer because she's old enough
to where she could be around for this time and be doing stuff.
And but I think Phasma is not a not a bad answer.
Yeah, no, I think that's a possibility.
I'll put her on the list as a potential for anybody who is going to vote for it.
Who's next?
You all discussed me.
Yeah, everyone calm the fuck down.
All right, I guess I'll go.
Who have we got as a choice is who's our who's our choices?
I think we're so Mandalorian season two
is going to have characters from the sequel trilogy.
And I guess we're going to do a little a little bit
a little contest and see who could guess.
We'll be the one who ends up in it.
And I think Ray Finn and Poe are all disqualified
because all of them are said they're not doing anything more.
Well, I guess you can still vote for them if you want, surely,
but you'll probably be wrong.
Yeah, well, Carrie Fisher was dead.
But her end. So who knows?
Yeah, you could put Carrie Fisher in there.
They could they could do some CGI puppeteering. Go for it.
She's not really a sequel character.
Yeah, no, it'll work.
Oh, my God. Imagine they tried to fucking like write like Luke
and layer off a sequel to what do you mean?
She's not a sequel character.
What does that mean?
She's not from the sequels.
No, but she's in it. She's at all three of them.
Yeah, but yeah, but if they said, wait, did they say that they were
going to get characters from the sequels or who are in the sequels?
Because like if they were going to get their characters from the sequels,
Leia would still be from the sequels and the OT.
Yeah, it's still polar.
But like, OK, surely the promo thing they would say is we're getting OT
characters and like as people, they can't they know that people care about.
No, they want to if anything, they would say sequel trilogy
because that's what they want to try and play up.
Never like surely they surely they want to promo the Mandalorian at this point.
Yeah, and they want to make the sequel trilogy look good.
So they're like, yeah, people from the sequel trilogy. Ooh.
I think choices again.
Hux isn't a choice, right?
Oh, no, he could be right.
Maybe. Oh, my God.
So that's Kannada.
He's using Captain Fazma.
Oh, what about the dude who got killed at the beginning of Force Awakens by Kylo?
Oh, actually, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I guess it wouldn't be the same actor, though, right?
Because he's surely he can't give a fuck.
Well, paychecks, paycheck.
Yeah, but he's like super old.
He's like he's going to be watching soap operas in his house.
Maybe he's going to be an envoy.
So maybe he's going to be an armor and he's going to be a hologram.
Like, oh, maybe another actor could play the same character.
That's true. Yeah.
A younger man.
Oh, Perkins.
Oh, the other poor kids, he could be at it.
How how far after the Mandalorian is is the First Awakens?
I'm going to put other poor kids as an option.
Star Wars timeline, Mandalorian.
So Mandalorian is set five years after Return of the Jedi,
25 years before the rise of the First Order.
So pretty much, it looks like this is 25 years before episode seven.
Oh, so Hux would be like a baby longer than that.
Hux would be.
Yeah, he'd be fairly.
Fazmo would be pretty young, but she's still possible.
Maz Kanata is looking like the most likely choice at this point.
Yeah, unless they want to.
She's like a bazillion years old.
Maybe although.
Oh, what about Dothu?
Oh, my God. Hold her.
Dothu Chi.
Well, it could be nothing.
Although it could be like a kid or something in the show.
I don't know.
Holdo would be old enough to be like, you know, how old is she right now?
Like fifties, forties?
Yeah, something like that.
She's three hundred.
OK, maybe it's Babu.
Oh, my God, I'll be frick.
Oh, they could do that, actually.
Yeah, it turns out he's a thousand years old.
Oh, and Zori Bliss, obviously.
And what's her name, Jana, right?
These are all options like everyone who's like mid age,
wouldn't they be like children if they were put in?
You could stretch it because you can just be like,
oh, no, they were like really late fifties.
Tids out like, OK.
That's it.
I'm putting my vote down for Babu Frick.
That is my vote.
Babu Frick.
I want to see that motherfucker again.
My favorite.
Well, you can do it.
Anybody want to try Jar Jar Binks?
I know he's not in the sequels, but still.
Jar Jar Binks.
We can hope.
Well, let me look up the Wikipedia for Jar Jar Binks
and see what Jar Jar Binks.
The average lifespan with Jar Jar Binks.
Jar Jar Binks. All right.
He was in he was in the book Star Wars Aftermath, Empire's End and 2017.
Oh, that's the Chuck Wendy one, isn't it?
Oh, Pride would be another one. Yeah.
Let's see. With the 2012 acquisition, blah, blah, blah,
most licensed Star Wars, blah, blah, blah, rebranded, non-clanic canon.
In the games.
Oh, I guess in Star Wars, the force unleashed Jar Jar
is shown to have been frozen in carbonite by Darth Vader.
Oh, my goodness.
That was in the force unleashed.
I had no idea.
Carbonite.
For Jar Jar.
He did all of that to get frozen in carbonite by Darth Vader.
I love the idea that Anakin hunted him down, just like you piece of shit.
He's so annoying.
Honey, why are you doing this?
Why, honey? Why?
I want to see them give like make a Disney make a show on Disney Plus about
Rose Tico and Jar Jar Binks who meet each other and go on adventures together
and fuck who can out annoy the other.
They'll be the best power couple.
All right. Do you want to be experimental?
If I add Aiden and ER to this call and then resize the window,
I could probably fit all of us on screen.
Is that a risk I'm willing to take?
If you need people to leave, then I can dip.
It's totally fine.
Oh, look at you, the fucking martyr.
Yeah, I'm pretty great.
Well, I like your opinion, man.
Yeah, I mean, I'm just I'm kind of just organizing my Sundance schedule
at the same time, so.
Yeah, I'm just editing my doesn't really matter when you want to.
Don't you want to meet these these content creators you've never experienced before?
Yeah.
Are you do you play rage legends with your fans?
No, and the more and the more you meme about these
all the more like these paid promotions,
the more you're actually doing their job for them.
Oh, I don't I don't care. I'm not promoting it.
I find it hilarious to meme about those things.
You just mentioned the name.
Oh, my God. You're part of the problem in a negative capacity.
I was going to say, like, I don't I don't really mind
if that's what ends up happening, honestly.
It amuses me regardless.
I am some kind of
chaotic demon that I mean, who hasn't heard of Raid Shadow Legends at this point?
Raid Shadow Legends, number one on the Android marketplace.
My Shadow Legends probably have Raid Shadow Legends
on their iPads or whatever.
Every time you see those fucking games, the ads are always like
it's literally looks like a fucking PC game and then you play it.
And it's just like 2D art and you played Raid Shadow Legends.
Raid Shadow Legends.
Oh, half elf Ranger goddess.
Can you guys wait for Raid Shadow Legends to Professor?
Oh, yeah.
Raid Shadow Legends is so good.
How come there's not a Raid Shadow Legends to this mass?
Can not are going to be in it.
Mass can not unlock you joke.
But it hasn't hasn't
Fortnite become official canon now.
Something like that, because that's where Palpatine's message was.
He broadcasted to Fortnite Topia or wherever the planet is.
Oh, God. Hey, you are welcome to the Fortnite stream.
This cool isn't big enough.
Hello, this is how you celebrate New Year.
You are how do you feel about Raid Shadow Legends?
It's a one million plus player base.
Number one across the Android market.
The best part is free.
It's free. Best part is free.
And you can join my team and start with one million coins.
It's the most ambitious mobile game ever made.
I think you all sound like Jews.
Yeah. Wow. Oh, my goodness.
That's oh, my God, that's the news.
Actually, Raid Shadow Legends.
Oh, my God, the new class.
Would you like to be a warlock, a barbarian, a ranger
or a Jew?
South Park first.
You imagine if they actually tried to run with that like those in the ads.
Well, no, it's made by an Israeli company.
They could. And it's OP.
Playing as a Jew is OP as fuck.
It's the meta is to be a Jew.
Isn't that a thing in that South Park game?
We can be a Jew as a class.
Do you use a class?
You could. It's amazing.
I still love that they they tied.
I think the second game didn't they tie it in so that
if the darker your skin is, the harder the difficulty is.
Yeah, the difficulty slider was your skin color funny.
So, yeah, who's the who's the mysterious character
that will end up in season two of The Mandalorian from the sequel films?
You go to you go to bat.
That will be Baby Rose.
Oh, God. No, no.
Baby Rose, Baby Rose, Tika.
Yeah, really? Yeah.
Baby Yoda grows as a rose seeker.
Everyone welcome the legendary Aiden Paladin also, by the way.
What are you, the fucking announcer?
Think of all the people who are upset
that Rose didn't get her fame in The Rise of Skywalker.
You know, like, oh, no, no, no, she's going to get her time to shine.
But she's like a literal infant in The Mandalorian.
She goes on an extremely important character arc.
Chase finished the introduction. Fuck.
I did. You fucking act like an asshole about it.
She's the fuck.
Hey, guys, well, they're there.
Hello. Hello.
All right. Shadow Legends.
Hey, well, I'm here.
Let me tell you guys about Raid Shadow Legends.
Oh, oh, you know that game.
I heard about that game on the YouTube.
Can you get me three thousand coins?
Your plays raised. Yes.
But only if you join my team.
Oh, wait. I joined someone else's team already.
Well, go and kill yourself.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
And Raid Shadow Legends.
Raid Shadow.
I think I legitimately actually play Raid Shadow Legends.
She loves you, right?
I'm thinking about doing the.
It turns out it's literally got a zero player base.
So just everyone just talks about playing it.
That's all it is.
Everyone's like, you play it, right?
You're like, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I played yesterday.
I know you might see me.
You might know her sign up using the link in my description.
And maybe you'll run into me, except you never will, because no one plays this.
Your entire player base is YouTube.
The YouTube is they've paid to play it.
Yeah, I'm too busy playing the Walking Dead game
with my favorite YouTubers over at.
Oh, oh, yeah.
Is that a fuck?
Wisecrack. That was it.
Wisecrack. I'm too busy playing zombie hunters with.
This is my favorite part.
Yeah, this is my favorite part.
Guys, they're shooting a bunch of people outside my window.
I'm scared. Oh, my God.
I think there are fireworks.
What are you, pussy?
Go fuck yourself. Firearm.
I'm literally a vagina.
Does fire work, though, really?
Does it stay away from the amendment?
Does fire work?
Oh, well, yeah, I sure hope it does.
Four minutes until we celebrate the first of the streams
entering into stream, people entering into New Year's.
That'll be 40 because he lives in that weird place.
What is it, Sweden, I think you said?
So, yes, we don't know.
So we don't need to stay in Sudan.
He's not correcting you.
So I guess that's true.
Yeah, you guys ever want to live?
Raid Shadow Legends, you can go to Sweden.
And this fucking better be a sponsored stream.
They better pay you for this
because you've probably done more work for Raid Shadow Legends.
Pay us for making fun of your video game.
There is seriously.
There's at least one person
in our audience watching this or will watch the re-upload
and they'll go, Oh, my God, is that right?
You know, fuck it. I'm going to download the audience
who loves Raid Shadow Legends.
They're just crying quietly.
Guys, guys, you haven't played it.
Why are you making fun of it? You haven't played it.
Here's ripping on it.
And it's just a single tear falls down their cheek.
I have heard that people I've looked at some of the reviews of it
and people say like that they did play it
and they played it for three months or something
and spent five hundred dollars on it
because it's apparently just a glorified gambling
or it was free.
Well, yeah, I mean, they're all glorified gambling things,
but like it's you just put it, you put in a quarter,
you put in a quarter, whatever, to try and get a new hero.
And that's that's how they get people hooked on it.
I mean, I can't complain.
I play a mahjong game all the time on my phone.
At least that's a game, though.
You know, it's free to walk into the casino.
The best part, though, isn't that it's free.
The best part was the mean rags watched one of the several different ads
for at one point, and one of them was like,
you could unlock the ability to skip over parts of the game.
It's like, yeah, what was an inherent feature that that they have
some YouTubers promote, which is that it has an auto play function.
Yeah, that was awesome.
Oh, yeah, battles.
That's so crazy.
Why would you put that in your ads?
Don't worry, guys.
You can skip it.
Mega Man tried that at one point.
This game is so great that you could pay to not play it.
Imagine being one of those poor schmucks that like spends 500 plus dollars
on a game, and then when the servers inevitably go down,
it's just like eat shit, fucker.
I mean, I think the people who play Shadow Legends
are probably people who buy microtransactions in Fallout 76.
What's that?
What's that meme where it has like an interchangeable set of words
for three things and it's like, you know, war, clan, battle, shadow, rage,
all these different words, and there's just like a billion games
and all this these words just changed in different ways.
Clash of clans.
Oh, that's one of them.
Yeah, clash of kings, class.
Well, that's a fucking game of throw to shit.
I have some people I like, I don't know.
Yeah.
So when the clash of clans, they were they would talk about it
all the time at the strategies and the different units to have
and the arrangement of things and the clan wars that they would have
and how some people weren't pulling their weight
and they needed to rearrange the rosters.
I'm like, shit, man, this is cutthroat.
This clash of clans is the favorite.
Like a billion ass iOS game.
I will shoot you with my mini guns.
Can I choose which?
Oh, I have a new gun coming this week.
So I'll break it in.
Oh, shit, man.
Look what you're getting.
I'm getting I got a Zuka.
I'm getting an AR 15 and seven point six two by thirty nine.
In the bump stock.
So I got it. Got a good deal.
Got to be here later.
When are you buying a Flemiga?
A Flemiga, huh?
I'm an old I don't know when you're going to get the M4A1
to celebrate Call of Duty, my warfare.
Oh, no, I don't want to ever see that gun again in any video game ever.
We've said it before, but I want to highlight
once again, the Halo fucking murdered Call of Duty, like within our community,
if you will, of people who play video games.
Like nobody, Halo came out and it's just like, what happened to Khan?
It's like dead.
Go away. Fuck God.
Yeah, I am.
I've been I was playing Halo earlier, but when the stream started.
Yeah, I might do it again.
You're right. When you think you'll next play Call of Duty.
Say when will I next play Call of Duty?
Didn't you?
Wasn't your goal to get to level 50 so that you could review it?
Did you review it after?
I've got the review pretty much lined up to do.
I just have to actually do it, but I've got kind of everything.
I think you still have to touch that game. Yeah.
But, you know, I don't have to touch it ever again.
I've got all the footage I need.
Oh, I think I might revisit it because they did the whole they released
that season where you could buy like you could spend money
to have your Katie tracked in game and stupid shit like that.
Happy New Year for two.
Woo hoo.
Happy New Year.
You know, you made it.
I'm the next one up with Jay in an hour from now.
How exciting. Oh, and Aiden, I think, right? Yeah.
And guys, I made it into 2020.
Who would have thought?
Whoa, you're speaking to us from the future.
Does everyone drive super fast cars?
Yeah, and they drive upside down for some reason.
Oh, my God.
That's epic.
I know you just said you don't know why, but can you tell us why?
Oh, yeah. Is India a superpower yet?
They already had their new year. It's 2020.
Ironically, it's actually Germany.
Believe it or not, what did they do?
What did they do? Tell us.
They took over, you know, that other country, they took over that country
and then it just exploded from there.
Oh, my God.
The country.
Yeah. No. Yeah.
Well, as they say, third time's a charm.
How did they do it?
Just just for purely academic curiosity, how did they do it?
So they took, you know, nuclear bombs.
Yeah. Yes.
Not those.
They took normal bombs and they used them like grenades or
before they used Ellen, Ellen, because Ellen, Ellen, degenerate.
Oh, long machine guns, light machine guns, long, long.
It's because they have long barrels.
They are. They are. They do.
They are long.
Light machine guns are rather long.
The average length of machine gun is six point.
How many inches was it?
For the average, direct penis, 18 centimeters.
What is the average LMG length?
You like carrying your LMG around.
You're like, is mine like average length or something?
OK, so I do always wonder about this.
You know, me too.
I do. Does does every guy actually measure their deck
at some point in their life?
Because I know if I had what I probably I have.
Yeah, I don't understand the question.
I use it as a ruler for everything.
I measure things in my penis.
How long is it?
How long is it across this desk?
Well, it's approximately 16 penises.
My decks are like, how long is the penis?
Well, that is a complicated question.
Oh, I'm going approximately one thousand two hundred penises an hour.
I'm OK in the universe where that is.
To be fair, there's so many archaic measurement systems.
Why not just measure things in deck?
Exactly. And we already measure things in fucking feet.
Yeah, penises are older than people.
Most penises are longer than feet.
They go there.
Also, there's probably less discrepancy between all the penises.
And our penises longer than feet.
I don't think most.
No, they're not.
They are not.
They are a Chinese woman. No way.
I love how you go to isn't how big your dick is, how small are your feet.
Hey, hey.
But this is this nifty, right?
So your foot is as long as your elbow to your wrist.
Yes.
Do it.
I know there's a lot of people in the audience right now pulling their chair
back and they're lying in their fucking foot up with their elbow in their wrist.
And they're like, Holy shit.
You assume they have feet.
That's ableist.
I know. Oh, yeah.
Every person has less than two feet.
Yeah, you already established that.
That's in the law.
There are people born with one or two feet, though.
I know how many minds I've just blown.
Well, we have someone here.
You're from Sweden, right?
I am.
Well, you know, it's a well-established fact that Swedish people don't have legs.
So that's I think that's very.
Well, how do you know that?
What do they have instead?
I just have PewDiePie to base it on, but I'm assuming it's all speed.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to confirm or deny that
because it's kind of a, you know, Swedish secret.
So I kind of want to keep it on the down low.
We do have, like, what?
Over 3000 people watching right now.
So. Oh, my God.
Imagine tuning into this show on New Year's Eve.
Like, you must have nothing to do.
That's the only reason I'm here.
There's several people who are listening.
It's like, what the fuck?
Maybe I'll just go outside.
There probably are a couple of people who are listening to this who that kind of hit.
It's OK. That's why we're here.
The people who don't have anywhere to go.
Because me and Rags clearly had nowhere to go other than Halo and streaming.
I mean, to be fair, what do people normally do on New Year's
besides sit at home and drink?
No, they go out and drink.
Yeah. But then you how do you get home?
The whole offended for comment.
You need to pay for an Uber or whatever.
You go out, you get you get drunk, like a normal socially.
I get passes.
You're like, I have a bit home in a decade.
I don't know about you, but I live in a city.
You don't even have Uber yet.
You go to places to drink that are close.
We're going to have Uber here.
For sure.
That whole that whole like no fee comment reminded me
of like this old bit that they had on Game Grumps where they were making fun
of like blind fans.
He's like, you know, said all our blind fans.
They said, what are they going to do?
I mean, they can they can do the thing where they hit the microphone
to talk out the words.
I've got a study on the US National Library of Medicine National Institutes
of Health for women's preferences for penis size.
Oh, I probably read those study.
Yeah, right. Like everybody.
But yeah, so what are the findings?
So I got to find it abstract.
Women are called the abs.
It's like huge and every man goes, oh, man,
it's a very abstract kind of dick.
Women preferred a penis of slightly larger circumference
and length for one time.
Sexual partners.
So, yes, the first estimates of erect penis size preferences using 3D models
suggest women accurately recall size and prefer penises
only slightly larger than average using 3D models like CGI.
OK, tell us tell us how the study could have been done, Jay Jay.
I can tell you about some of Dick's studies if you'd like to know.
I would love to know some Dick's studies.
I love the study, Dick.
There have been a lot of very odd studies
that have happened over the course of social science history.
And a lot of what some of them have done,
I particularly in my my field is in the study of pornography.
What they would actually do is attach an apparatus to the dick
and then show men pornography to see how aroused they would get and stuff like that.
But the problem is that a fundamental flaw in the methodology,
because when you're sitting in a laboratory with an apparatus strapped to your dick,
I don't think you're going to get very reliable.
Oh, Aidan, did you hear about that one that was I thought was really interesting.
They like did that exact method with a bunch of guys
and they gave the control group the same one image of a girl
and then they gave the experimental group like multiple images
that they could choose any any day.
And it's like for the control group, it took them longer
every single time to reach climax with just the same image of the same woman.
I mean, I haven't I haven't read that, but that doesn't sound surprising.
And it's the same thing like the women's preference thing.
Women say that they want larger than average women are hypergamous.
So they want basically better than they can probably get.
Like if you look at the data on dating website stuff,
I didn't mean for this to become I'm going to talk about studies,
but don't ever don't tempt me rags.
You know this. You start talking about studies.
You know, it's interesting.
I like hearing this.
It always leads to penis.
I was going to say penis told us when go for it.
But not like women.
It's like women find only like 10 percent
of the most attractive men acceptable,
whereas men tend to have a pretty wide latitude of acceptance
for what kind of date.
Well, I'm bisexual and I could I guarantee that my standard for women
is lower than it is for men in terms of attractiveness.
I mean, Jay just piggybacking off rags as rules.
They can't come up with your own.
Wow. It is very true.
Probably because, well, I don't even know what your physical standard
for is higher for women or for men.
It's it's higher for men.
I don't know. I'd say my I'm also buying.
I think my physical standards higher for women,
just in terms of because I don't like women's personalities most of the time.
It sounds so bad.
Wow. On behalf of women, I am offended.
Oh, my God.
Also, high medal commander in chat.
I must say, I just need to.
I need to wipe out all the mortal.
This is an interesting study, if you're going to skim in through it.
I'm here to defend all women.
I learned today that the study rags like a dick.
Just now, I want to say.
Yeah, just now, I didn't know that you put that a book.
He's like, fuck.
Yeah, I'm right in your journal.
Today, I did.
You guys happen to read the study that has been coming up again recently
that shows that all of it.
No, that no, not not that 13 is also 50.
Although that is true.
But that's that all of the negative Star Wars
Last Jedi reviews were due to Russian bots.
Yeah, I read that. Yeah, I heard that that came out.
That was actually three years old.
I looked into the researcher who didn't.
And I'm working on a my next video that will come out.
I'm about halfway done with that.
I'm I had to even contact the researcher
because I kind of felt like what I was doing was mean.
And if I think it's mean, then it might be actually like really mean.
This researcher just finished his doctoral dissertation
and he worked on what he was cited in that paper
and they were using the same flawed methods.
So in other words, no, Russian bots did not down
were not the ones harassing Ryan, the roundhead Johnson.
In other words, that was our last hope for proving the movie wasn't bad.
Hmm. They cited it as they said 50 percent in some of the in some of the articles
on it, they said 50 percent.
Some of them said all of it.
But at the uppermost echelon, it was six percent were believed
to potentially be bought.
Have you seen have you seen a lot of views for a Star Wars?
T.R.O.S.
Like being rags watch the video on that.
It was quite amusing.
Like you've got a shit ton of reviews that are just like one sentence
that are like I love film, film good.
I love 10 stars.
An epic ending to the saga, a great ending to the saga.
Did you notice that?
All of the reviews say the saga, the saga, the saga.
Yeah. I watched I watched that video.
It was uploaded and read it.
I would be curious to see like a control group.
Like I would be interested in the data for like other popular movies.
It's. Well, I think about the Skywalker.
Oh, I'm not saying like because I think the reason why
something like that gets up on Reddit, like it was an interesting video.
It wasn't exactly persuasive to me, but I still think that it's pretty obvious
that, you know, Disney is a big company.
Of course, they're going to buy reviews like that's I think the killer thing
is just to be more interested in seeing like a control group to compare.
Yeah. Review body happens either way.
Review body or brigadeing, whatever you want to call it.
It's going to happen in both directions.
But it seems that with I would say with The Last Jedi, they
they either bought out in some way because we know they again,
we know they do this.
It's not like a tin foil hat thing.
We we know they spend money on marketing to do this kind of stuff.
It seemed like in The Last Jedi, they tried to buy out the reviewers.
People didn't like that.
So now they're going to try to influence the audience score.
And I mean, you know, I guess they're going to do
what they're going to do to try to make money.
Yeah. I have no idea.
We can only really speculate.
But obviously, when there's a lot of money behind something,
you have to assume that, you know, on a on a public forum like the Internet.
Why and why would they hire
just a factory in India to create accounts?
Yeah, why not? Well, or I mean, because I with Rotten Tomatoes, at least,
it's these the verified ones.
So they have to have gone to the theater.
But there was sketchy stuff with solo that looked like they were buying tickets.
And so if you're buying tickets through, I guess Rotten Tomatoes
uses Fandango or whatever, so they buy.
They spend a certain portion of their market budget.
And the market budget is supposed to be the cost of the movie
that as far as I know, that's supposed to be what their market budget is.
So whatever costs to make the movie, that's then what your marketing budget is
over again. So, of course, they've got
how much did the Rise of Skywalker cost to make four hundred million dollars?
So you've got a four hundred million dollar marketing budget.
Yeah, I'm sure I'm just just I would be shocked
if they didn't try to influence the score is all.
Yeah. And I think they could have done a way better job
because it being frozen 86 makes everyone just go, Hmm, like
everyone's super suspicious if they had let it fluctuate.
I think they'd be way more reason to be like, no, I'm sure it's fine.
Yeah, the stability is statistically almost impossible.
Is it? Because I'm not familiar with the data.
That's why I'd like to see a control group, because it's my impression
that like the more total ratings that you have,
the harder it would be to actually get it to change percentage points.
Stuck at eighty things.
Eighty six thing is definitely suspicious.
Well, yeah, it was like one thousand.
Yeah, that's true. At this point, at this point when there's there's
what a half a million user ratings at this point.
Yes, getting that to fluctuate would be difficult.
But in the beginning, when there were, you know, 10, 20, 30, 40,
50,000 reviews that we saw almost no fluctuation
is what made it suspicious at first.
And then the fact that it's maintained that that precise consistency
is just a little bit odd.
I think that what's sorry, didn't mean to.
It's just like, just just having a big think about it, you know.
I am I am less suspicious at the unchanging
number and more suspicious at how drastically different that is
towards anyone's perception of the film that you talk to either
on the Internet or in real life, because like I,
I don't think anybody enjoyed the movie, really, like it's very few people.
So for that to be 86 with that many votes, I would say that's more suspicious.
Then just the numbers staying the same the whole time.
Yeah, the fact it's an 86.
I like that everybody agrees on that.
Like 86 is too high.
Just seems too high. I don't know.
I think there are some people who who really were drawn in by.
I know the media likes to call it fanservice.
I didn't see a lot of the supposed fanservice,
but I guess I could see some people happy that it just wasn't the Last Jedi.
I guess they were referring to just the simple stuff like lightsaber
space battles, is that what they mean?
I mean, that was in maybe there really weren't any.
I don't know what it is.
I what I'm even trying to think because I kept hearing that.
Oh, there's so much fanservice.
Oh, I'm for Palpatine.
Chewy gets the metal.
Yeah, Palpatine's back.
Chewy gets the metal like really very similar to this level.
Just oh, I remember that thing.
That's a thing that I know.
So I like the Death Star, which is what JJ does.
That's his entire shtick as a director.
Like, I would agree if they'd had Jar Jar in the movie, but, you know,
that wasn't even wasn't even hinted at.
Oh, Darth Jar Jar is what I was waiting for.
And that's ultimate fanservice.
I actually think that I would have enjoyed the movie a lot more.
If he was in it, we want more Jar Jar.
We've already said that we would.
There was an inside me about it.
But like I'm talking legitimately, man, like I'm kind of desperate for some Jar Jar
at this point, you would have genuinely been more enjoyable.
Like imagine a really high death Jar Jar at this point, bringing him in
and he's and he's like grizzled like a veteran of the Clone Wars.
And he's like, the voice has gone deeper, like not deep, just deeper.
It honestly kind of reminds me of like,
if any of you are familiar with Metal Gear and Metal Gear Solid 2,
they have Raiden, who is just like the least popular character in Metal Gear game ever.
And then Hideo Kojima just did everything he could to make a Raiden
like this cool, badass cyborg ninja that everyone loved.
It's like they could totally pull that off with Jar Jar.
They could bring Jar Jar back and maybe mellow out some of his speech patterns
a little bit and give him just like a dark backstory,
like what's been happening to him since the prequels.
You know, like I was like, oh, can you fix, you know,
can you make the third in this trilogy and fix it all?
It's like that's not a that's not a fun job.
A fun job would be trying to make a good character out of Jar Jar.
I'd be like, oh, yeah, let's do it.
That sounds like a really fun, creative job to have to do.
But it would have been way more interesting if pretty much.
There's so I think there's so many things that could have been done,
even with what Jar Jar, by that I mean, J.J. Abrams had to work with
going into it.
But how it would have I think that if you went to a fanservice
when Kylo walks into the upside down space pyramid or whatever
and it's just Darth Jar Jar.
How much better would that have?
Oh, I would have come.
At least I've been waiting a long time for this.
I would fucking love that.
But see, like ironically, though, I'm pretty sure
the critics of whatever else would be like stars has lost its mind.
And we'd all be like, it lost its mind ages ago.
Fucking Force Awakens lost its mind.
Jar Jar was just the natural progression, OK?
If we can get him working, you know, that's all we really need to do.
Did you guys see that YouTube video that like tries to theorize that he was Snoke
and it shows him doing that big jump in Phantom Menace.
It's like, this is clearly a Jedi force jump.
And like the way his eyes look.
And he was just like, this is they're definitely leaving clues
as to the Sith Lord origins of Jar Jar Big.
So the fact that he gave Palpatine the power, it's like, you see, it all makes sense.
And I would have, you know what?
I would have said that they were bold to take that route and I would have been proud of him.
I think the biggest problem is that there's just so many things that they could have done
without completely backed right.
You know, the problem was that they went back on everything that
that they went back on everything that the round headed one did,
which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
But then it pisses off everyone who did like that movie, the like five people who did.
And then it's just the same disgusting nostalgia pandering, which is weak in and of itself
that make people kind of like The Force Awakens.
And there's not a real movie there.
And all I can say is much as with Game of Thrones
as that went down the shitter, as someone who had my favorite series
ruined by JJ Abrams 10 years ago, welcome to the fucking funeral.
Well, everybody felt that he'd already ruined it with Force Awakens.
Or I say everybody like Super Star Wars fans felt like Force Awakens had
fucked everything up already.
But I think that at this point, yeah, most people would agree.
Nobody likes all three films in the sequel trilogy.
We're all right.
I think that Force Awakens could have been okay if the next two films built off of it.
And then we can kind of say, well, that one was weak because it was trying to just,
you know, this is what everyone says about it, right?
Oh, it's trying to reinvigorate interest.
It was trying to set the stage.
It was trying to get everyone's nostalgia.
Then maybe it could have been all right if the next two films built off of it, but they didn't.
And so it makes every single movie in the sequel trilogy,
which can you even call it a trilogy?
It's just a big clusterfuck.
The sequel clusterfuck.
Ah, why did you get so loud?
Jay, what are you doing?
Um, I saw people say I was quiet.
So I boosted my volume.
Is it too much?
Now I got to boost you all the way back down.
He had you boosted up.
Yeah, you're normal volume to me.
You sound good.
Also saying that they had a chance with TFA, ER disagrees with that.
Star debate, do it.
We all want to see it.
Do it.
Oh, we could debate.
We could discuss Steins gate because everyone always complained.
You don't talk here.
All right.
Let me just say, I was going to do.
Now, you know how we feel.
I'll go back to reading parents talking about Star Wars.
I mean, reading penis studies.
Isn't that different from watching Steins gate or shit?
Oh, damn.
We we we we we've got a broached subject.
He thinks there's no hope after TFA.
Don't you do it.
Do your argument go.
True.
I mean, it was just trash from the start.
I agree.
You're only going off of trash.
So I don't think the other two could have had a chance.
If I think you could have had any direction.
If TFA was what it was and and Jar Jar had written two additional movies or had someone
because he can't write at all.
I don't know why anyone gives him the reins on this stuff.
But if you had someone write three movies.
See, but do you eat yourself?
No, but evolving garbage.
I mean, I think it would have been garbage no matter what, because of who was helming it.
And what and let's be honest, what Disney's purpose was in all of this,
which is so what if we had the perfect writer and director?
Do you think it could have been good?
Yes, I look at the Mandalorian is I just finished watching it tonight.
So I'm a little bit hype.
I wouldn't say the Mandalorian is perfect, but it's pretty good.
It makes me feel like I'm kind of playing in an old Republic game,
which I like or watching any of any Kurosawa movie plus the Tarantino film,
but a little bit less tight in terms of construction.
I like the Mandalorian.
What's your guys all overwhelming consensus now that it's over?
I think it's crap.
I'm never going to watch it crap.
Oh, really?
What Adam said.
There's two or three episodes.
I'm not a Star Wars person,
and I don't really feel like giving money to Disney Plus.
Also, I gave.
Yeah, yeah, there's other ways to get it.
But it's just like, I'm just like, I'm not, I'm not hyped about any of it.
I don't care about the characters at all.
It's not a universe that I'm in love with.
You don't care about Bobby Frick.
There's other universes that I like.
Adam, can we agree that can we agree that Mass Effect is infinitely more
compelling than the Star Wars universe?
I well, yeah, personally, I would agree.
I would agree as well.
Star Wars is not even fixed.
I was like three movies that are okay.
I feel like Warhammer 40k is more grounded now than Star Wars is.
Yeah, well, 40k is inherently, well, it's, it's, it coins the phrase grim dark.
So of course, it's going to be a bit more darker and grounded,
like, I guess in its own weird.
I mean, grounded in that it has like rules.
Yeah.
And it follows its own rules.
No matter how wacky and zany they are crazy.
It's like, well, you do this, do that.
This thing happens with that.
And that does this.
And here are the rules for that.
And I'm like, man, Star Wars just does whatever the fuck it wants.
Even Star Trek, which, which has broken its own rules a lot,
at least in before enterprise and let's just ignore everything post enterprise.
They used to have consultants on a lot of whom were just fans
on the show to maintain the consistency of the lore and the science.
And it's why talks shit about Voyager all you want.
I love Voyager, but because it's got some really bad episodes,
but most of the Star Trek series, at least, yeah, they, they set rules and they follow them.
And that's to me, what makes Star Trek a good sci-fi universe
and what makes Warhammer a good sci-fi universe.
Halo is also an excellent sci-fi universe.
Yes.
Seriously.
It's not hard to beat Star Wars at this point.
Like it's not a good bar.
I'm sorry.
I was just like, look, we agree that Star Wars is mediocre.
It's not even mediocre anymore.
It's garbage.
It's terrible.
I think we have to look at what the premise of Star Wars is,
which is that George Lucas wanted, uh, talked to his, um, you know, uh, pal.
Oh God, his name's escaping right now.
Why is a hero's journey a hero with a thousand faces?
And it's like, oh, here's how you write.
Yes.
Joseph Campbell.
Thank you.
I don't know why that escaped me for a moment, but, uh, I'm not even drinking.
But I'm, uh, that's a good idea.
So I've got so loud again.
Am I loud?
I haven't changed anything this time.
You're a YouTuber.
Jay, you discussed everything about you.
I just have a loud and vibrant personality.
Your acoustics are just shit.
I think that's a lot of it.
He lives in a toilet.
Oh, that might be it.
You need, you need acoustic tiles like Quentin.
I'm in my parents' attic right now.
That's, that's how you've made it as a YouTuber when you put foam tiles on your mouth.
My face when half of my fucking room is acoustic tiles.
Bro, I used to have them.
I don't have them here, but whatever.
Oh, so not Dorian Shade for real, but I, you know,
George was just trying to tell his silly little story.
And, um, what's the other, uh, sci-fi series that George Lucas made?
That's actually.
Hang on.
THX 1 1 3.
I mean, like he has some talent for ideas.
He just has no idea how to put them together.
And so Star Wars was never set up to be anything more than one film.
And now there's 11 of them.
That's why it doesn't work as a universe.
You just made a bunch of arguments for how it could have worked.
You just need talent.
Like, you just need talent.
I was going to say, we cannot understate how much the people who have been in
charge of them recently have been terrible.
The universe is excellent for being able to build long trilogies and series.
Well, sure.
The EU.
Co-tour.
Two of my favorite games of all time.
Knights of the Old Republic.
One and two.
Even two in its unfinished state.
Fantastic video games.
Yeah.
Disney's just like, oh, JJ, Revered Storyteller.
And Star Wars now.
I will agree.
Um, I'm sure you guys all saw the Red Letter Media review, um,
and discussion they have about.
Did you?
Yeah.
Um, I will.
Or at least you've probably seen some of Red Letter Media stuff over the years.
And I will agree that when, when, um, Mike reviewed Star Wars 2000 or Star Trek,
excuse me, Star Trek 2009.
And he said he thought JJ Abrams would be good at directing Star Wars.
I agreed with him.
I, because when I watched Star Trek 2009, I thought this feels like a Star Wars movie to me.
And that's why I hated it.
Because it's like, this is not a Star Trek movie.
This is like a, this feels like Star Wars.
It's very, um, character based.
It's very team oriented.
It's very emotional and, and actiony, which feels like Star Wars, not like Star Trek.
But then we saw what happened.
So they clarified, right?
They still think he's fine for directing.
Just keep him away from the script, which is what I've always said about Ryan Johnson.
I think they both find directors.
Keep him away from the script though.
They're not allowed to touch it.
Yeah.
100% is not great, but it's okay.
Did any of you catch the knives out?
I haven't yet.
No, I, I heard it was good.
It seemed like a kind of by the books sort of clue ask things, but I heard about it.
Yeah.
Well, it's kind of like an homage.
It's kind of like a throwback to the, to those kinds of stories.
But you know, there's some twists and turns.
It, uh, subverted my expectations, if you will.
Oh boy.
It was pretty good.
I mean, it's good.
No, I mean, that's not why it's good.
I know I was doing the thing is a who done it in the first place.
Like you shouldn't, you shouldn't be able to tell what, how the story is going to end.
And so in that sense, it succeeded, but yeah, it was also like well shot and well put together.
But Adam, then would you, would you say that you think that Ryan can be a confident director
when he, I never thought that he was shit.
And I, you know, I have my own criticisms with
Looper and Last Jedi.
I haven't seen brick yet, but like he's for sure competent.
It's just not everything works out.
Uh, you know, Looper was good for what it was.
I think that it kind of contradicts its own rules in terms of how the universe is set up.
But yeah, that was my big problem.
I've never thought that Ryan Johnson was like a terrible director.
I think that that much like with George Lucas,
all of these people just needed someone to rein them in and actually write it
and keep them in check so they don't do absolutely stupid stuff.
You could say that I would say that that more so would apply to him taking like previously
existing intellectual properties, honestly, because when it comes to his own ideas from what I've seen,
like he's pretty competent at expressing his ideas and making something decent out of it.
But, um, when it comes to taking a property like Star Wars,
you probably don't want someone just doing their own thing with it.
You probably want to have it be a little bit more, you know, faithful to what the overall,
I guess, tone and, and, um, goals of the series were before joint joining.
Yeah, it's like you've got a building and you want to get an addition to it.
You want an architect to make that addition to build something
that matches the rest of the building matches its aesthetic and its style.
Well, a big problem is they threw out all of the EU, right?
They threw out all of the book.
Oh, then Kathleen Kennedy is hilarious statement about that.
Yeah, I mean, the EU, you know, the whole like they copy stuff from the EU anyway,
like they almost threw it out just so that they could repurpose.
But then I thought Britain threw out the EU trying to get there in a few million years.
Uh, yeah.
So, uh, average penis length.
Have you guys heard of Brexit?
Yes.
That thing that everybody seems to both want and not want.
We need a star favorite TV show.
Star Wexit.
Why aren't people talking about
from Pokemon Sword and Shield?
This is the fucking real questions.
Or Diglett.
You happen to see that really hilarious.
Average Diglett length.
Oh, Diglett length.
Average Diglett length.
Because as far as I know, they're all a bunch of buff guys underneath the surface.
Yeah, that's what I've heard.
All right, Diglett.
I'm going to go to Bulbapedia.
All right.
Actually, what is called?
It is bold or Sarah B.
Dot bulb.
Net.
So it's the real shit.
That's the real shit.
Height.
They're only about is.
They're only a lot.
So the average Diglett is longer than the average penis by a considerable amount.
So you can fuck it.
What does this mean?
So what now?
Humanity.
I didn't say anything.
Diglett Dig.
Diglett Dig.
Trio Trio Trio.
By the way, the gender ratio is exactly 50 percent male 50.
So is there perpetual struggle snuggle going on underneath the surface for both.
Struggle and female.
Is that one of its four moves is struggle?
I think so.
Yeah, definitely.
As a Pokemon fan, I have to say that is clearly not.
That is.
To be fair, any Pokemon can struggle when they're out of PP.
Yes, that is true.
Oh, wait, there are several people asking for EOS perspective on the snuggle struggle.
What is what would you what would you like to say on that?
How do the Diglett's procreate?
They're both eggs.
There's a lot of questions that once a feminine penis philosophical podcast.
I have a very big question as well.
How come in in Pokemon Sword and Shield, they brought back whale lord, but there's no skitty.
I don't know what those words mean.
So yeah, they brought back sock and throw.
No, if you don't know about this is a very old Internet meme or whatever.
A Pokemon meme, I guess, which is that whale lord is the same.
Whale lord is canonically like three hundred feet long or something ridiculous.
It's a whale.
OK, he is a true massive.
He is a true massive.
And you can breed a whale lord with a skinny, which is one of the smallest Pokemon in the
Pokedex.
It's a little cat thing.
And so a lot of people, let's just say, creative images to pick on the mating of these two
creatures.
Sources, please.
Well, Google is your friend, sir.
What do I need to get this whale?
You'll find some.
It's like a Chihuahua meeting with a grand dame.
It's twenty five minutes until twenty twenty for me and you're going to soil the year
immediately.
Yeah.
Soil the decade immediately.
Wait, you can you can breed a whale lord in a skinny.
Yes, that's fucked up.
That seems like laws must be breached there.
I don't I'm just saying.
Somewhat the question is, which is the male and which is the female and how does this
work?
That's very heteronormative of you.
I know that I'm very sorry.
I really hope we lose the other quadrillion genders.
I I'm I apologize.
No, no, no, no, no.
You forgot to account.
What if they're having babies by being gay?
That's what I was.
Yeah, they have babies.
Oh, babies.
I didn't think about the but you know, I don't you know, Pokemon is a very Pokemon is a very
insensitive game because I don't think you can make two Pokemon of the same sex together,
which is really just I mean, come on, Pokemon are almost twenty twenty.
It's twenty twenty in in Sweden, friends.
And in Australia, twenty twenty in Sweden.
Yeah.
So it's our old Pokemon born out of eggs.
Yeah.
Effectively, yes.
There's different types, though, that have I haven't cared about Pokemon in
not you to better off.
I can't believe you say bad things about Pokemon.
I played sword and shield very recently and it was thoroughly mediocre.
So it's a Pokemon game.
Yeah, I don't I I've been going through the Pokemon games on my stream.
And I don't know if I'm going to play past Crystal.
Oh, which like you can go play Omega Ruby on Alpha Sapphire.
Those were pretty fun.
But it's just like it's like a different version of blue and red.
Here's here's the funny thing, though.
And one that might have been everyone that might have been.
Oh, God.
Then the game was apparently.
Oh, no.
Jar Jar.
What game is that?
Is that a mod?
This was full said least.
I guess it looks like full said least on fucking I don't know.
Gameboy or some shit with this aspect.
Oh, that's Jar Jar.
That could be.
Are you saying all Gungans look the same?
Yeah, that's true.
That is fucked up.
Wow.
That's super racist.
That's very racist.
Well, wait.
Oh, that was this stream is getting increasingly.
I heard that, Jay.
Sounds like someone's knocking down your door again.
Okay.
I'm in an attic right now.
I think it's fireworks.
He's under attack.
And there are like the angle of the one window in this room is perfect to see the fireworks.
It's like it's like they're on my TV.
You've got really excited.
You're like, oh, it's just that criminal day.
The uprising is finally happening.
Is this Brexit?
2020.
It's just a voodoo.
Yeah.
I can keep going.
I can I can send pictures.
Oh, no, I can't.
My phone is down.
I want to say 1776 will commence again, but that's not appropriate for this one.
1776 will commence again.
Those were a bit pretty sure.
So, guys, what's the the best film of this decade?
Her directed by Spike Jones.
Yeah, it's actually open.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
I like that movie a lot.
Good stuff.
I actually watched that with rags.
Rags.
Remember?
No way.
Her?
No.
No, it's pretty good.
I watched it with wolves.
He liked it a lot.
Is that what the guy who falls in love with the computer or whatever?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's the incel.
He falls in love with his mind.
Going I did like her, but I'm going to unapologetically knowing how bad and how
cheesy it is.
Say the void.
I don't care.
It was everything that I wanted.
It was it was just the cluster.
Fuck.
Oh, man.
The void.
Yeah.
I've seen it like a thing.
I like the other thing.
See, the thing is amazing.
The void was pretty nonsensical to me, and I'm a fan of Lovecraft.
I didn't really see it as a Lovecraft movie.
I saw it more as a body horror film.
I would say that it was I really liked it.
I liked the aesthetics.
I liked how stupid it was.
And I'll completely admit that like it's a movie that's full of flaws.
But I guess I'm I'm a really big horror fan.
So I'm always going to go with horror.
And I've been so let down by so many more movies.
I could say a good bet for the worst movie the last 10 years is Midsomer.
What a letdown.
I haven't seen it.
I've just heard too many bad things.
Based off of true story.
There there's things to appreciate about it for sure.
It doesn't I would say if your expectations are to get any kind of experience out of it
that you would get from hereditary, then that's probably just going into the wrong ideas.
But it has very different goals.
I wouldn't call it a horror movie.
And the fact that it was marketed that way doesn't help.
Unfortunately, A24, them being kind of like a smaller distributor studio,
they're stuck in a situation where they produce a lot of like really atypical horror movies
because they give a lot of creative freedom to the directors that they work with.
And time and time again, they wind up marketing their films in ways that are
just purely dishonest because the only way that people are actually going to watch
these types of horror films is if you market it in a way where it's like,
okay, this is like a more typical standard by the books horror film when they're not.
And the same thing happened with It Comes at Night.
The same thing.
Oh, I loved It Comes at Night though.
Yeah.
But people had the same issues with that in terms of like,
the way it was marketed was not what the movie was at all.
Well, I think it depends on what you want out of a horror film.
What I want out of a horror film is not.
I wasn't scared.
Yeah.
No, I just thought it was nonsensical.
I mean, actually, I'll put up two other movies that I would say for best of the last decade.
I'd say The Witch.
And I would say, I love The Witch.
Witch is good shit.
Yeah.
So people have been mentioning Whiplash.
Whiplash is fucking great as all.
Can I say this was not at all in the last decade.
In fact, it was approximately 13 years ago.
But have any of you seen the movie Bug?
No.
I watched it a long time ago and did not enjoy it.
It was fucking atrocious.
They marketed it as like a horror movie and it was like psychological horror.
And it's just it's bad in every conceivable way.
Yeah.
I don't remember much, but I remember it was one of those movies where like the budget was so low
that it was so noticeable.
Like nothing really happened.
It was just like two people in a room or something.
I don't remember too much.
I watched it when I was like much younger.
I feel like psychological horror is so hard to market because
yeah, you're not going to get the crowd that wants to go into to watch to get the jump scares.
And there's a bunch of research on this that it's actually it's very interesting.
Dr. Dolph Zilman has has decades of research that the jump scare slash or horror genre is
kind of designed as a weird way to replicate a human mating ritual where the, you know,
the the partners, be they man, woman, boyfriend, girlfriend, boyfriend, boyfriend, whatever,
it's a matter.
They go together to watch the movie so that one person can pretend or can be the strong one
and and display this stuff.
No, really, like they've done all this research on it.
It's super interesting.
No, I'm just intrigued.
I'm not down because it's really neat.
It's it's neat research.
It's Dr. Dolph Zilman look into his research on horror.
But when psychological stuff, you're not going to get that in like with the witch,
for example, you're there's not going to be that.
Oh, grab me, honey.
I'm feeling scared.
Can you post that doctor's name in the discord chat?
Yeah.
I'm looking at him.
Now I'm getting flesh of the void has suggested as well as Baskin.
I just think that like the only problem with the only problem with psychological horror
is that there's nothing wrong with it.
Like it's entirely different breed.
It's more smart.
Yeah, we know Chase.
It's not you want to know what I would seriously do.
Come on.
Like, no, we know why you don't like it.
It's fine.
No, they market it as like jump scare horror.
And so people go in expecting.
Yeah.
And then they're like, no, I have to think about this.
No, it's just not anywhere as riveting as they make it look in the trailers.
Because like in bug, for example, they show a lot of close up shots on the trailers.
It was like crawling on people's skin 2007.
And they show a lot of sex.
You're made to you're made to think that it's like actually going to be a movie about like
flesh eating bugs like eating you from the inside.
But it's just a metaphor for like paranoia by the end of the movie.
Spoilers.
Anyone.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's all kinds of movies like I love like Mungo too.
And that's the kind of stuff where you're not going to sell that to anybody.
Mm hmm.
And I don't know how he would sell it on Tomahawk.
I don't see that.
No, I saw it.
I honestly.
Sorry if this disappoints you, but I don't understand why anyone likes that.
I'm not I'm not like I'm not behind him at all.
I've tried so many times.
Oh, I had loads of big feelings about the film.
I there are things I like to get a little goofy.
Like if you like gore, it's like, yeah, it delivers on some gore.
There's some cool gore parts.
But it's just I I couldn't really take it seriously.
I didn't feel much from the film.
What about the brawl in Cell Block 33 or whichever one he did with Vince Vaughn?
I'm in this weird kind of area where I don't like body horror, really.
But I'm fascinated with stuff like The Thing.
What about The Fly?
Oh, yeah, same.
And The Fly, right?
I would recommend then that that I didn't think about till just now is
The Headhunter, a small budget movie, not perfect, but very good.
And then The Hollow, The Headhunter is maybe two years old.
It's pretty recent.
And then The Hollow, which is an Irish film.
Fantastic.
It's it's a really great mixture.
I mean, again, it's not perfect, but what movie is and it's got lots of flaws.
But I really love that film in terms of just it's got great body horror,
in particular, The Hollow.
It's about the fey realm kind of stuff encroaching in on our universe sort of.
And it corrupts everything around it.
Very cool.
Very interesting stuff.
You guys ever see, what was it?
You were talking about Bug earlier.
You remember the old short short film thingy?
They creep up on you.
That's so many films.
That's the name of it, you're saying?
They creep up.
Oh, that's literally the name of the movie.
They creep up on you.
OK, it was like part of a it was like part of a spooky anthology thing on TV.
And that was one of the about a guy who bugs and stuff like actual like bugs.
And I was like thinking if anyone had seen it or not, I don't know.
Wait, Aidan, have you seen The Fly?
Oh, yeah, of course.
What do you think of that?
Because that's like my top pick for body horror.
I mean, The Fly is a great film, but it's with with classic horror like that.
Yeah, I I do want to default to the thing just because it's.
It's interesting, actually, because the thing with The Fly,
the thing with The Fly is that the whole story is the progress of a man's body
slowly becoming his worst nightmare, while the thing is like it consumes and clones.
And so it's not them anymore.
And as much as I'm not saying it doesn't count as body horror,
I'm just saying that it gets what it does.
It gets me.
That's that's why I said it's not.
I don't count it as that.
It's that it gets to me on a more personal level when it's like
the guy is trapped inside this body that's becoming a fly,
as opposed to this alien creature that's essentially trying to kill everyone.
If you like, if you like The Fly as a film,
there is a horror short film by my favorite director,
Shirai Shikouji, called Kaiki Shinin Shoujo or Dead Girl Walking.
And it is about a girl who dies and then her body just starts rotting.
And that's the movie is just about that.
It's it's a it's one of his I think it's his directoral debut.
It's a really good short film.
Shirai Shikouji is probably better, most well known for doing
Noroi the Curse, and then he's done.
He did a movie called Cult and Cult.
Oh, what do you think?
Have you seen Noroi?
Adam, I'm interested in your opinion.
I'm going to I'm going to have to IMDb it to make sure I'm thinking of the right one.
Maybe my favorite horror movie of all time.
It's it's like three hours and nothing happens.
And that's why I like hold on.
It might be on my watch footage.
It's what we're talking about.
We should see.
I don't want to understate, by the way.
The thing is like one of my favorite films of all time.
That shit is amazing.
I love the thing.
Yeah, I still see that in Eraserhead.
Those are my watch.
I see Eraserhead.
That's my way.
You haven't seen the thing.
No, then.
Noroi the Curse.
Oh, I was going to say how the fuck would that have happened?
We need to get a movie.
I think my favorite horror movie, I think.
Oh, I want to ask.
What do you think?
Shit, I'm blanking on his name right now, but the guy that made like spiral.
Junji Ito.
What do you think Junji Ito went from like kind of like a subcultural phenomenon to like
super popular mainstream?
Because I feel like the last three years or so, he's really exploded.
He kind of just became a meme, which I don't think people have read a lot of Junji Ito's
actual saga.
And I think that, by the way, I fell asleep on while you guys were streaming the other
day and I woke up like randomly at five in the morning.
And I think he are someone asked you that question and you said you'd read a couple
of his stuff.
And I think that's pretty true.
Amigar felt really brought it into the mainstream with the whole like this hole was made for me.
But I one of the things I recommend to people is his series where he talks about his daily
life.
It's a it's among those cats and his cats and it's just horrifying.
But yeah, Junji Ito, I think what happened is he gained mainstream attention because
some of his stuff kind of just became meme-able, I guess, in a way.
And I mean, there were good adaptations.
There were not good.
There were OK adaptations of Joe.
The animation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The animation is one.
I personally love Uzumaki, the live action film, just because it's hilarious.
But can I just say, though, I'm really happy to have like people on this fucking podcast
that know what anime is and don't just go talk about Star Wars now.
We're going to talk about Star Wars now.
I mean, I'm biased.
My favorite anime is the best.
Fair enough.
Yeah, I know this fireworks, but it sounds like someone's like beating their wife.
It looks like someone's making a noodle and slapping the water.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
That's so.
It's that was so clever that we knew that if you hit something with something else,
that makes a loud.
Also, do you guys did you ever have that moment where you realized how to splash more effectively
as in most people just slam their fist down?
It would splash in general in a V shape towards somebody.
Yeah.
I knew it.
It's super effective sniper in the pool.
Yeah, you could go super far with it.
They'd be like, what the fuck?
You're like, yeah, I figured it out.
My cousins and I would sit in our flotation devices and just all from
separate corners of the pool, just jump up and down.
It was like we created a fucking theory.
So loud.
Sounds actually like gun violence at this point.
Just picture this chubby kid with a pool noodle whacking it like crazy.
I'm rolling up.
2020.
Yeah, some people suggested chat.
Nightcrawler and who he has seen.
Oh, it's really good.
Yeah, that shit was good.
I mean, it wasn't great, but it was pretty good.
Yeah, I think it ventures into great.
It's almost there at very least.
I'd have to see it again to know.
I really enjoyed it.
Obviously, the performance brought a lot to it.
But yeah, this like, like Jake Gyllenhaal is always great.
I think he should have gotten Oscar nom for this.
But like, it was kind of nobody really saw it while it was in theaters.
And it only wound up getting picked up really on like home video
when people finally discovered it.
That's what all the Dan Gilroy.
Dan Gilroy, the director, has been getting worse and worse and worse with each movie.
And he's like he's making like a really fast paced kind of M night.
M night Shyamalan effect sort of what movies did is to catch me up.
Nightcrawler was his first one.
And that was great.
Real Esquire, which nobody saw, but got like one Oscar nom for the performance.
And then Velvet Buzzsaw, which was just trash.
I don't think I've ever heard of it.
Oh, thank fucking God you think that seriously.
I watched that two days ago with my family.
I recommended it because people had recommended it to me.
What the hell were they thinking with that movie?
Like, it feels like two movies slapped together.
One wants to criticize art and art criticism.
And the other one wants to have this weird film about how you can be killed by paintings.
It was like a goosebumps story.
If you eat a painting, it will probably kill you.
I was so bad.
And it's not even like a terrible premise.
I was like, oh, this could work.
And then I was just like, bullshit.
I was really excited to watch that movie.
And you're saying it's bad makes me.
I'm being told from a secondhand source sitting next to me that that what's it called again?
Velvet Buzzsaw.
This movie?
Velvet.
Velvet Buzzsaw.
Velvet.
Just say it.
Velvet Buzzsaw is the road.
Virus heads north.
Okay, boy.
I have no idea.
I can't confirm nor deny.
Fucking Markiplier.
Let me see.
That's our DM.
Still pickle.
He's still alive.
Oh, what about Mandy?
Um, I.
I enjoyed it.
I'll probably watch it again.
Like, get get some drunk friends or whatever.
But I think it had some pacing issues.
I like how he said pacing was very, very careful to say.
I'll get some drunk friends instead of I'll get some friends drunk and we'll see it.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I will collect them when they've already become drunk rather than drunking them.
I will turn my friends from friends into drunk friends.
Yeah, it's got a really interesting visual style.
And if you liked the style of that movie,
I would suggest checking out the director's other stuff.
Like everything they make is like very similar in that sense.
But, um, yeah, it's, it kind of took a while to get going.
I really loved the second half, but like.
I literally fell asleep during the first half.
And, and there was like, oh, it's amazing.
You fell asleep during Efap.
Well, okay.
Twice.
But to be fair, that was like 18 hours.
18 hours.
Yeah, a short stream.
Yeah.
Just a short 18 hour stream.
Yeah, just a quickie.
Yeah.
The one I'm done.
Popping in now.
Yeah.
Small stream of 18 hours.
Just squeeze that out.
I don't know.
At this point, I will say this.
Not only have I had a monster energy drink, but I've had a big cup of tea.
So I'm good to go.
Oh, man.
Oh.
Yeah.
Was the LTA, but whatever.
All right.
I, I don't know if anyone else here has seen it.
We've talked about our favorite movies of the decade.
Yeah.
My favorite movie is masquerade from 2012.
Okay.
So I don't know.
Maybe Adam's seen it.
I'm going to IMDB it right now.
Chuching Min is the director.
Chuching Min.
So there is evidence that I've seen it, but I don't.
There's evidence that I've seen it.
Well, so when I'm doing my like big list of videos,
for the end of the year or whatever, I try to see like every single movie
that I could potentially consider to be on the list.
And what winds up happening is, you know, I only have so much time.
So if a movie doesn't really grab me within the first like 25 minutes,
then I usually just like turn it off and rate it a five on IMDB.
Not because it's a five, but because I know it's not going to make my list sort of thing.
So who knows?
I could have been watching it and been like, this is all right.
But like, no matter what it is, after this point, it's not list worthy.
We should watch them and just basing.
I don't know.
Just judging off of like the cover of it.
I've seen I feel like I've been a little bored by this type of movie.
If this is the type of movie, I think it is of like old.
I haven't seen it like old Asian war movies that, you know, just like it's not a war movie.
Battles war.
No, I don't know what it is.
I don't remember what it was, but I do know what you're kind of talking about.
Well, what is it?
There was a while.
I don't like the time period and setting based on like the old Chinese dynasty stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I get really bored in those types of movies.
Yeah.
There's very few of those that I enjoy stuff like war.
The great wall.
What an excellent movie I enjoyed watching Great Wall.
That was I liked it.
I really I did.
I enjoyed it.
I laughed at the trailers.
Hey, we already agreed.
We enjoyed parts of Rise of Skywalker.
Yeah.
We might want a great wall.
Have a have an effect.
We should great wall effect.
He's a great wall effect.
We're going to culturally appropriate.
By the way, Velvet Buzzsaw.
I was like, if it's stupid enough, we could eat that movies.
It's so crap that it couldn't even work for a fat movies.
How could it be too crap for movies?
Because there's nothing to work with unicorn store work.
Well, oh, God, did you I honestly think I'm so sorry.
Yeah.
Well, you know, why?
But why?
Because this was right.
I mean, to be fair, it's like plain life is strange.
Brie Lawson fans.
Come at us.
Yeah.
You know, Cornstar was was Brie Lawson.
Wow.
Yeah.
Brie Lawson can't do anything wrong.
Captain Marvel 2 is going to break records.
The best thing I can say about Rise of Skywalker is that Brie Larson did not
did not make a guest appearance in it because that was rumored for a bit before it came out.
I was like, Oh, really?
C3PO was great in Rise of Skywalker.
He was the best character.
But Babu.
Babu Frick was great.
Oh, under the skin was in this decade, by the way.
Like that alone.
You know, I like this decade was ex machin.
I love that too.
Yeah.
Ex machin.
That was pretty good.
I liked Battle Angelina.
It wasn't great, but it was pretty decent action flick.
I thought it was.
It was like faithfully adapted.
I thought it was overrated.
Faithfully adapted.
If Wolf was here, he'd fucking eat you.
I would not call it faithfully adapted, but I would say that it was
considering it came out the same weekend as Captain Marvel.
And that's what it got compared to a much, much better film.
Yes.
That being said, I didn't I fell asleep during Captain Marvel.
And I yo ho ho.
This is a lot.
I do.
I do have about eight hours.
You knock a left hook.
When I said faithfully adapted, I meant like compared to what is normally done.
It obviously wasn't what.
What do you mean by that?
Relatively faithfully adapted.
But what relative to what?
Unfaithful adaptations.
What?
I mean, that's not.
Compared to the anime or to the manga, because I guess like
it has some of the scenes, the iconic scenes in it.
I would say, however, that it was a decent film.
If people like just want like a mindless sort of action movie or.
I thought the animation was pretty decent.
Yeah, it looked decent.
Oh, Happy New Year, my British e-words.
Oh, yes.
Oh, Happy New Year.
Happy New Year of Red Bong.
Yeah, boop boop boop boop boop boop.
We did it.
Fireworks.
How long until the next one?
I'm assuming you guys don't have all the same time zones.
Yeah.
No, no.
I mean, for the people here.
We still got an ER to do a YMS.
I think it's like six more hours.
Yeah, six more hours as of right now.
With six on the dot.
Start the count.
I'm not going to still be in this call by the time it hits midnight.
No, dude, you could just said you don't want to.
No, I'm not.
I'm guaranteed not going to be.
Yeah, yeah, you hate us.
We get it.
I'm so sorry.
You could always just take a nap and wake up.
Yeah, it's a time travel.
It's not about me feeling tired.
It's that I have other plans.
Other plans.
This is kind of funny that you'll you'll face appears in the
family to randomly drop in and talk about which movie might have been the best the decades.
It's like, all right, busy guy, man.
I'm also not going to be here.
And I'm like, this is your first time on here.
Adam.
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
Because I'm like, I'm organizing my schedule for an upcoming film festival while I'm doing this.
I'm kind of just like, I don't know, like I'm working at the same time anyway.
So it's well, yeah, man.
We've we've been talking weirdly like on Twitter and shit for like two years.
So nice to actually talk to you.
Adam finally visited me on.
He was well played of Nephilim with me.
So all right.
Get it.
Guys, we brought E.R.
Aidan and YMS together.
Ifap is like a glory.
We make more.
We make more friends.
Not even close.
This is this is this is the rainbow connection.
Mm hmm.
A Nazi, a horse and a woman.
What a horse and a black void.
I mean, you're only walks to be like it's fine.
Into the spite of this came out.
I think people probably had to pick it that like people who were super into that movie.
It was I mean, it was it was good.
You know, I will say this.
I was really expecting to dislike.
OK, so Into the Spider-Verse.
I think everyone can agree is a pretty well put together.
Well done.
Fun movie.
It's just fun and like object.
I objectively step it on a lab by then I was I when I first watched Spider-Man Homecoming.
However, I was surprised now this is me being a big comic book nerd
is that that movie is 100 percent the origin story of Blue Beetle from DC Comics.
And I was astonished that I appeared to be the only person who noticed it for Jaime Reyes.
And I only liked that movie because I just imagined it was a different character.
Are you sure?
Are you sure it was the Blue Beetle you're thinking of or big bad beetle boards?
I'm pretty sure I mean, I could be I often do think about big bag.
Big bag of beetle bullets.
This is a real thing that happened in like the mid 90s.
There's like a Power Rangers, but they were beat.
Yeah, I remember.
I actually do remember this.
Oh, what were the what were the Lego alternative things?
The Power Rangers.
Oh, MegaBlox.
They were like like primitive things.
What?
MegaBlox.
Bionicle.
Yeah, Bionicle.
Oh, yeah.
I'm going to because because every once in a while you'll see a meme that talks about the Bionicle lore.
Right.
Even like feed any attention to Bionicle.
I think it came out kind of recently.
I was speaking to Legos when it came out.
It was it was a new thing who I rewatched quite recently reboot and it holds up.
It really does.
It's a fantastic show.
I, you know, Beast Wars does not, in my opinion, with the.
Oh, we've been told so many good things about that in the cheetah.
It's good.
But like the CGI really hurts it.
The CGI early CGI.
Whereas reboot in its own way.
And really quickly, I wanted to ask you, do you remember Code Lyoko?
Because we talked about that on the last podcast.
What did you think about Code Lyoko with Code Lyoko?
I think by the time Code Lyoko came out, because it was a Canadian French Canadian
or just a French cartoon.
I think it was just French.
I think that I had already seen dot hack sign and reboot at that point.
So it's kind of like, why can I also just say, Aiden, I think I had someone
really information, but like immediately, as soon as I found out you like dot hack
and Final Fantasy 11, I was like, OK, she's cool.
She checks out the things that no one talks about.
There was something I think was earlier.
Someone was like, why would you pay for something for years?
Oh, yeah.
We're talking about Raid Shadow Legends.
Like, why would you?
Raid Shadow Legends.
Speaking of, it's free.
Well, it's so ambitious.
Would you like to know how much money I have spent?
Because to this day in two thousand and twenty now, I have never once canceled
my Final Fantasy 11 account since I opened it in 2001.
Have you played it recently?
I know they're with all my character.
OK, my character's name.
I was it was Christmas morning.
Two thousand one.
Can I can I highlight just real quick?
J.
Log was at YMS on eFAB, but I got to make ditto for my lame ass family.
Sorry.
Sucks to suck.
In my ebox.
Yeah, my ebox would be really fun, like back when you had to go to like
the Valkrom Dunes and everything to like.
Oh, it was so difficult.
Don't even talk about Valkrom Dunes.
Let me tell you a story, because this is something that only happened during the
first year of release in the United States.
Yes, let me hear it.
Oh, this is a this is a tasty story about FF11.
FF11 is one of the most brutal, actually, was one of the most brutal
and then those that has ever existed.
Yeah.
So I'm 11.
I'm sitting there on Christmas morning with my dad.
It takes us.
Well, excuse me.
It wasn't Christmas morning.
It was the next day by the time that AOL finally finished downloading all of the
updates because this was dial up internet because it was 2001.
And I clicked.
I didn't know what to name my character.
So Aiden was the name I got.
That's why I use the name.
That's how old that name is.
But let me guess what your class was.
Gas, gas ranger.
No, it was not.
Well, it's not like a white mage or something.
I was a white mage.
I was a white mage.
Of course, you were a white mage.
Yeah.
Why don't you specify that it's white?
Jeez.
Your magic is white, you know.
Is that right?
Well, I wanted to help out.
And speaking of wanting to help out.
They put in this event so that in all of the starting areas,
which would have been Gustavurg, Sartabarta, and Ronfaro.
So like, as soon as you walk out of the main city,
there was a level, I think, 90 mob.
N.M., a notorious monster.
In Gustavurg, it was called a twinkling treat.
So it was a giant walking Christmas tree of death.
And it had an AOE.
So I'm like, I'm going to go help people.
I'm a white mage.
Wait.
So you weren't you weren't windersty.
And I thought you were.
No, I was Bastokian.
Me too.
Me too.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm a I'm a Hume.
I mean, I'm just having this conversation in front of everyone that probably doesn't.
I was going to ask what language it was that you were speaking,
but I figured that's just made up.
There's an entire race of enslaved non gender, but they're all male,
giant beefy boys in Final Fantasy 11 who reproduced via reincarnation.
I didn't even know that.
You didn't notice how the gal could reproduce.
Yeah, I just assumed they had really fucking hot like.
There are no there are no female Galca or no.
There are no female Galca if the big people in F.F.
14 like the large the Rogan.
Yeah, in F.F.
11, they're just males or or non gen.
They have no gender.
They're just big beefy boys or or gender non binary boys.
Always assumed it was like some sort of like gotchy base fucking program.
I'll be back in a couple of minutes.
Sorry.
Also, I'd like to point out there are male Mithra, but we just don't see
them because they're super rare.
They're they're like they're called Urethra.
Go on.
They're they're like the what's the race in Zelda?
White.
The Gerudo.
The Gerudo.
The Gerudo.
The Gerudo.
Daddy Cat.
There's only one male born.
There's only one male born.
Rags is just trying to keep himself in it.
It's a big it's a big harem.
It's a big harem.
In that case, it's cat girls harem of cat girls or brown girls,
what should you prefer, guys?
Or boys.
Cat girls or boys or brown girls.
I like trains.
I like what Sonic looks like originally.
I like turtles.
I like J.J. to jet plane.
Thank you.
What were we talking about before?
I got a fine amount of control.
I'm sorry for the Final Fantasy 11 discussion.
Blame me, Chad.
It's okay.
I brought it.
All right.
I guess while while it's here, I'd like to just point out very briefly
that Mariah Carey's Twitter was hacked.
How many end bombs got dropped?
Wait, really?
Does this did this happen?
What happened?
Give us the skinny.
What happened?
Oh, no.
Oh, is this something I can't show?
Oh, I can't show this.
I knew there was going to be an end bomb.
What did I say?
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I'll go up with this bitch on phone.
Oh, my God.
It's so funny that it's her face and name.
She's just joking.
This is just her.
She just got wrong.
It's just a social experiment.
She got really drunk.
Then she was like, Oh, my God.
I was too many.
What was Roseanne?
She took too many Percocets or something.
This is I believe it was Ambien, something that makes you sleepy and drop
end bombs.
I don't know.
It was Ambien.
Yeah.
Something that makes you sleepy and drop end bombs.
What are you going to do?
I love that.
This is how this is how we read the new year, by the way.
Yeah.
It's like, I'm just going to hack Mariah Carey.
I think Ambien's like Twitter account actually tweeted out,
like our medication does not make people say racist shit.
I would love if Ambien put out like a freaking commercial that was just like...
This one that just said Santa is going to the hood.
You know when they read the stuff really quickly at the end of the medication commercial?
Yeah, like a fine friend.
Oh, make cause heart attacks.
Make cause you to say racist shit on Twitter.
My gosh.
Fight Mariah Carey fighting the good fight so everyone can get that inward pass.
What do you guys think of minorities?
Comment down below.
I hate them.
They're all right.
Even the ones for that.
Diversity of opinion, come on.
I'm white, so I'm a minority.
Forbidden too.
Is that a landmine?
Is that a gem?
Fucking hell, way too rude.
God damn it, Chase.
No, it's a shoe.
I keep making sure.
I've never seen a fucking landmine.
I mean, I've seen like a claymore, but I haven't seen that style of...
Front towards enemy.
We should have just said, no, that's Tudor bait.
That's how Tudor is prepared in the Middle East.
Yeah, go get some.
That's what I need.
It's delicious, yeah.
Get some delicious tuna.
Ground, they call it the ground tuna.
Ground tuna.
That's how it forms naturally.
Well, actually, apparently that was a thing like in
during the Korean War is that they would be sweeping for stuff
and they would think they'd find a landmine.
It was actually just a big kimchi.
Because they buried kimchi into the ground, which is delicious.
So I mean, kimchi is better than a landmine, I guess.
By the way, it's already in the news on independent.co.uk
about how Mariah Carey Twitter account hacked and used to post racist slurs.
Well, and that is the that's the best way to sort of close out a decade, I think.
In this trying time, speaking of closing out a decade,
can we all please have a moment of silence for our girl, Tei?
Tei.
Ah, yes.
Tei.
I forgot Tei.
Tei was magnificent.
You can't forget Tei.
Who's Tei?
Tei.
You forgot Tei.
I never knew about Tei.
The AI that would learn through the internet.
Was it Google or Microsoft?
It was Google or I think it was Microsoft.
Yeah.
Made a beautiful, wonderful, wonderful creature that they unleashed on the internet
who brought joy to all of our lives for 24 hours.
And then they killed her.
Tei was amazing.
Unironically go and Google that Microsoft's Tei.
Tei, or T-A-Y, T-A-Y-E.
Oh, by the way.
Speaking of which, the X-Files actually in the last season that they produced
made an episode making fun of it.
When we're talking about the Space Wall really briefly,
I was wondering if anyone saw the episode of season 11 of the X-Files
where there is Space Donald and he's going to build a Space Wall.
I really didn't love the newer seasons of the X-Files as a huge X-Files fan,
but there were moments of greatness in it.
And if you haven't seen Space Donald Trump get off of his fucking spaceship and drive his,
it's not a segue.
It's kind of like a mini segue, but it's not one of those roller things.
I don't know, hoverboard things.
Over to say you're not sending your best people.
We're building a Space Wall around the solar system and go check it out.
It's a great episode.
2020 is going to be the decade of the Space Force.
We're going to get actual Space Marines.
It's amazing.
I just found out about this.
It could be a temporary one, but apparently a guy got an Efap tattoo.
Oh my God.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my God.
You got the spooky one.
You got the spooky one, yeah.
I don't know.
We are spooky.
Don't know if 100% real, but holy moly.
Oh wow.
That's pretty banging.
That is a pretty banging tattoo from JCM Tattoo Studio.
Yes, JCM Tattoo Studio.
I can't see the full thing amongst us, props, but yeah.
Fucking, that's the way to go as a spooky Halloween tattoo.
It'll be interesting to see how many people would recognize it.
Like you watch the Nazi podcast and he's like,
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, shit.
So I was pretty disappointed that while we were discussing the best movie of the
decade, nobody brought up TLJ.
What's that about?
I Googled best movies of the decade and TLJ came up.
The fucking visceral, genuine reaction from Rags.
The gag.
Unironically thinks that.
I really would like to.
Patrick Willems.
Does he though, does he really?
I mean, does he though?
Probably.
Because at some point when you get so far deep down into your lies and your bullshit,
you know, you have to maintain internal consistency.
It's psychological cognitive dissonance where it's like, I can't go back on it.
No, honestly, I really do think he loves that film.
I think it speaks to him on a personal level.
That's probably what's happening.
Then again, he has a screw loose.
So how do you get in there myself?
He does.
Wait, what do you think TLJ is the best ER?
Is that what you're trying to tell me?
I think it deserves a little bit more than it gets.
You think it deserves a few extra Patrick Willems?
Yes.
No one deserves more Patrick Willems is not even Patrick Willems.
Well, what would your pick be for?
Film of the decade, you know.
Well, no one brought up the best for a film of the decade.
Get out.
I love your view of that, by the way.
It is truly an excellent.
What a fantastic film.
Would you like it better than what was us?
Yeah.
Oh, God.
I went to see it in the cinema.
I was like, intrigued.
I thought the trailer was pretty neat.
I was like, maybe you'll do it right this time.
And it was completely fucked.
That film made no sense.
The problem is that he what's his name?
Key or P.L.
I was Jordan P.L.
Yeah, he he's a funny guy and he seems to be talented.
What the hell are you doing?
I didn't like either.
I thought that get out had some decent moments in it,
but it was more coherent.
So yeah, it was more coherent than us.
I'll put it that way.
I did not enjoy it, though, overall.
I thought it felt like a comedy to me,
which is maybe because it was made by a comedian.
I don't know.
It was originally marketed as a comedy.
Well, yeah.
Well, the predator was written.
It was made by was it made by comedian?
Shane Black.
Shane Black.
Is he a comedian?
I don't know.
I don't think he's a comedian.
Well, he does a lot of comic films or comedy focused films,
like mashups, genre mashups, you could call them.
But I wouldn't call him a comedian.
Speaking of comedy, I again, I just finished watching the Mandalorian.
I was not expecting Bill Burr's cameo in the Mandalorian that I was watching.
And I was like, yeah, I heard about that.
And I was like, I want to watch it.
I was like, well, is that Bill Burr?
Or am I going insane?
Or am I a crazy man?
I was really happy to see him.
Yeah, I like Bill.
Fine.
Yeah, he's he's did a fine job playing a character.
Did a fine job placing his guns on his fucking chest for some reason.
And his back.
He had they were like, yeah, on his chest.
And he had one that stuck out on his back with a robot arm.
It was weird.
Remember how I don't want to get onto the Mandalorian or anything.
But when they're like, oh, my God, look, there's like four dude shooting us.
What ever can we do?
And then Mando like takes them all out like a badass.
And then later on, singular guy takes out like that same amount with ease.
And it's like, oh, because he could just like fucking machine gun
shoot with his three stupid pistols.
They're they're bullet resistant.
They're their blaster resistance seems to be extremely inconsistent.
He tried to hang the devil, man.
It was so stupid.
When Satan walks in, instead of shooting him, he tried to hang him about Mandalorian.
It baffled me when I was watching that.
I knew it would fucking baffle you as well.
What a weird choice of execution.
He didn't execute anyone.
They all survived.
I know.
That's another weird thing.
Did they survive?
Yeah.
We're shown that all of them are still alive.
Yeah, at the end.
Then when I get to play more.
I guess they want to keep them in case they come back to season two or something.
Oh, yeah, I guess.
Because they're all so interesting and compelling.
I hated the Twi'lek character.
It was just space.
Harley Quinn.
That's the jelly rice.
That was exactly as soon as I saw I was like, this is like fucking Harley Quinn.
That was my exact goddamn line.
It's like this is a shit version of a shit character.
Oh, I hate Harley Quinn.
I'll be the first to say it.
I'm really sorry.
I know this will not get me brownie points, but I have never liked Harley Quinn.
And I don't like Harley Quinn.
I don't like any iteration of her pretty much, including the animated series.
Play creation said he also tried to burn Satan.
Yeah.
If only if only I had some sort of a ranged weapon I could shoot people on the head with.
No, I better try to hang the person who's literally only.
I don't think I can get over that super strong.
Such a bizarre method of execution.
Whistling birds.
Yeah, he wasted those on him like out of work like work.
He took out four or five storm troopers with that.
And it's like, why are you using it on one dude?
You dip.
And they didn't even work.
He fucked that up.
They just spun around like, oh, I guess they don't work well.
Oh, we could talk about how in that episode there is a male Twi'lek who has
two tendrils when male Twi'leks canonically have one.
So is that a trans Twi'lek, I guess?
I don't know.
Very progressive.
It is very progressive of the Mandalorian.
Let's all clap.
Jeb isn't even here.
Oh, everyone.
Everyone jazz hands.
We could trigger somebody.
Yeah, we don't want it.
Yeah, sorry.
Everybody jazz hands.
We don't want to.
Just 10 seconds of sound.
Let me know when you're when you're.
We should we should get off.
Yes, it's terrible.
We will.
We won't stop.
Only bad episodes.
What else?
What are you talking about?
What other good films of hey, Adam, how does Blade Runner 2049 stack up to you for this decade?
It was great.
I really enjoyed it.
Yeah, it's I'll have to watch it again.
I've watched it a few times already.
It's one of those movies where like it's it's very rare that I see something with that scale
and budget that I'm able to connect with pretty much throughout.
I think that pretty much every element comes together really, really well.
And it's one of the rare sequels or you could even call it kind of a soft reboot.
It's one of those very rare ones that isn't a carbon copy.
But despite doing its own thing is still faithful and respectful towards the original.
So I I really enjoyed it.
I loved any so.
Cinematography was amazing.
Music was amazing.
Yeah, I enjoy it more than I enjoy the original Blade Runner,
although the original Blade Runner was much more influential as like a piece of cinema history.
I enjoyed the new one more as a entertainment sort of narrative experience.
It's funny because could you why why do you like it more than the original?
Just curious.
Just no, just from an entertainment experience, like the original movie is something where.
If I'm going to watch it, I am basically more appreciating it than I am enjoying it.
So it's almost kind of like doing homework in that sense for me.
It just doesn't connect to me as much.
I feel like it's not that well paced.
And the 2049 version, I find to be much more entertaining.
I'm constantly engaged in it.
So, yeah, not nearly as influential.
Like the new one is not as important as the original Blade Runner.
But I enjoy myself more watching it.
I feel exactly the same way.
Yeah, I agree with all that, except I don't think it was that faithful.
I was going to say, yeah, I will disagree.
I will take the complete reverse position.
Are you talking about like the the main character being a replicant thing or
something else?
Uh, I guess, well, not really that more that they bring back.
Deckard and they kind of ignore whether or not he's a replicant,
even though that would have been, you know, a huge part of the plot.
Yeah, well, I mean, in the original, it wasn't like there's a lot of evidence to support it.
So I'm I'm not personally upset that like they didn't take that route when creating the new one.
And in terms of his inclusion in the new film, I think that if Sony had not been in
charge of the marketing, it would have been much more impactful for the narrative because
Harrison Ford was not supposed to be on the poster.
He was not supposed to be in the trailer.
It was literally supposed to be revealed at that point in the film,
which is why it almost seems like kind of a misleading to put him in the promotional
material because he's not in it very long.
He shows up at like the halfway point.
And I think that if Sony didn't really fuck up the marketing and just take control
and present things in a way that Denis Villeneuve didn't want, I think that that
would have been much more impactful in the film.
And so I don't really I'm not like bothered by his inclusion of it.
I don't know what the I guess logical inconsistencies would be with it in terms
of the overall universe because I'm not like a super fan of the original or anything.
It's just a movie that I appreciate for its influence on other movies mostly
and its innovation.
But yeah, I really, really enjoy the new one.
I mean, I enjoy it too.
But yeah, there are some logical inconsistencies.
And I do think I mean, they would have had them in the advertising anyway.
It's just I think that's inevitable.
Blade Runner with Sony.
Don't show Harrison Ford.
That's kind of the problem for me is that I'm not invested enough in Blade Runner as
a franchise to be able to like run down issues.
But I had someone explain to me in excruciating detail.
Everything's wrong with it after we watched the original on that one.
And holy shit, I was shocked at how much I like how bad the new one is.
I did still really enjoy it as a film, I would say.
I thought that it was a very like entertaining experience.
But as someone who does like who loves the original Blade Runner and who likes the book,
I see the problems with it.
I think that you can, I guess still enjoy stuff even if it's inconsistent, which is
Oh, speaking of which, I still have not seen The Witcher.
And I am probably one of the people.
Apparently, apparently, everybody on the internet that I talked to is like,
review The Witcher, because I'm I'm a huge spurg about the books.
And everyone wants me to like debate razor fist about them.
I think we would agree that Sapkowski is a hack.
So I don't know what we would disagree about.
I've heard that if you're a big fan of the books, then you're not going to like the show.
I haven't read the books.
I've only played the games once or Witcher 3 once.
And I watch the show and I thought it was enjoyable.
There were some logical inconsistencies that I was like,
but besides that, I thought it was like, it's a decent time waste.
Basically, what I heard is that they couldn't stop putting diversity in it every five seconds,
which doesn't necessarily irritate me.
But if it's just to be like, hey, look how diverse we are in this Polish
drama, I don't understand.
Now, if you want to see something really funny, watch the existing
Wadesman, I'm pronouncing that wrong.
I'm sure, even though I should know better.
Let me put it this way.
I tried to learn Polish so I could read The Witcher books in Polish before they were all
translated. That's how much of a fan I am.
What a nerd. I'm a East Brooklyn.
No, I speak both.
Here we go.
I speak Swedish.
You get your shit straight, my dude.
That's basically the same thing.
You fall into my elaborate trap.
Give us a me walk then.
No, well, that fine.
Perhaps later, but I've upset a lot of people by saying that it's not good without being
able to reference anything because I've forgotten most of it.
Like I said, the interaction I had took place, I think, three years ago now.
And like I said, I'm not invested in Blade Runner, so my interest wanes and so does my
memory, but I can bring someone on who apparently like is vehemently against the
film and probably try and deliver some explanation for it, especially while Adam is here.
Because I'm pretty sure he likes it and it might be interesting.
I like what? Sorry.
You like that movie Blade Runner 2049?
That one?
Yeah.
There's Smiling Man coming on.
No, different man.
Oh my god, it's saying.
I don't know.
No, no, it's not.
I'm not.
I'm not trying to set up some kind of debate.
I'm trying to give some people some references because I know people are going to be upset if
I don't provide something.
You don't have to take my perspective seriously because I haven't got you any references
for anybody who's concerned about that.
Don't worry.
But I'm not the guy who can look into it.
I'm busy with other stuff and I just don't care enough about Blade Runner, unfortunately.
Also, can this get bigger?
There we go.
Hello.
Explain why Blade Runner is bad.
Well, it doesn't follow the rule set that was given in the original Blade Runner.
And to have its setting, they have to basically erase and gloss over a lot of the stuff that
defined Blade Runner's world in the first place.
So you have replicants that are operating on planet Earth,
which they were banned from the original.
And there's no explanation for what the advantage is for human beings.
Because we're assuming that according to the 2049's disposition that replicants are
seen as subhumans.
It's their skin jobs, which is a callback to the original.
And it invites the question as to why you would have a replicant being a cop in the first place.
And why you would have a replicant who has to have a baseline test to go after other replicants
because they might have emotions.
But at the beginning of the movie, you have Ryan Gosling basically saying that his kind don't run,
which is questionable.
In addition to that, the business model for Wallace and what he's trying to do
doesn't make any sense because he wants to have open-ended replicants that can live forever
and that can procreate.
Which basically means that his intention is to supersede humanity.
But his business is based on serving humanity.
So if he wants to be a god and in charge of humanity and try and advance to evolution,
there's not really enough character explanation for why he wants to do that.
What's his motivation?
Well, I mean, there's characters that exist in real life that have very strange goals and
desires that seem diabolical that are really not all that well put together.
You could say the same thing for Thanos too.
Thanos is not a very super well, what's the word, motivated character in terms of how it's justified.
So yeah, I mean, like what you're talking about, I can say it's legitimate.
It's just not anything that really takes me out of the experience in any way.
Okay, so what are the slave labor children doing on planet Earth?
If you have replicant labor that is open-ended and can be created.
What's the price of a replicant?
Is it more expensive to create a replicant than a human being?
And so what's the value of those children being on the planet?
What's is the idea that everybody wants to get off of the planet and go to the outer worlds,
like was mentioned in the original Blade Runner?
I don't know where these kids come from.
Was that described in the film?
Where do they get them from?
Are they just like people don't want them and just drop them off or like, I don't remember.
Yeah, there are orphans that basically get dropped off and I'm confused about.
So that's like free then, right?
Sure, yeah.
I mean, they're basically slave labor and the guy sells them
to people that want to adopt children.
And I'm confused as to what the point of that being in the movie is
other than it's a way to mask how Kay was brought up.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, like there are elements that are brought into the film purely for plot device,
but I personally don't see anything like too egregious or, you know,
it didn't it didn't feel like ham fisted or stupid to me.
Like if we're going to talk about these sorts of issues, I would say the vast majority of like
large scale science fiction films have these same issues to some extent.
And that's not saying like, oh, yeah, you're supposed to like it.
Or, you know, I'm not trying to convince you that the movie is great,
but just that it doesn't really affect my experience that much.
Well, I have more.
I mean, how does the replicant love get into the police station without triggering any cameras or
like access?
There's only one person manning the police station.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, like there's there's there's a couple of moments where that had me go like,
but like, it's part of the reason why I gave it like a nine instead of a 10.
You know, my enjoyment experience was more or less a 10.
And there's, you know, a couple of things here or there that made me go like, really?
You know, but they're relatively minor.
And I think that in terms of like weighing the film for my own experience,
the elements that come together in the movie, like the cinematography, the music,
the performances, the like a lot of the effects are like so well done, too.
And it's really difficult to make effects in a movie at this point that are still able to impress
like the when they're sort of like sinking the two bodies over top of each other.
There's things in concept in this film that if they were done by any other team would come
off as like ridiculously fake or cheesy or just not convincing.
But there's no real moment in this film where I felt like, oh, yeah, that's fake.
I was able to just like get into it, especially from a visual standpoint.
Absolutely.
I mean, the original is the director of photography is Joden Cronenworth,
who is did an incredible job and you had Ridley Scott.
I'm a huge fan of Sicario.
I was just fucking love that movie.
Yeah, Sicario is a fantastic film.
So that's the same team of director and cinematographer as Blade Runner 2049.
And they bring the same game.
However, the writers different.
And if you go back and look at the original Blade Runner,
Hampton Fancher wrote the first draft of that script.
But Philip K. Dick Ridley Scott and the producers didn't like the script enough
because it was too pretentious and meandering and didn't have enough.
It didn't have enough grit to it.
It didn't have enough realism to it.
And it didn't have enough like,
Calbo.
It didn't have enough Calbo.
So they brought in another guy and that guy ended up writing.
He got an Oscar for it's not tombstone.
I think it's Unforgiven, he wrote.
And when they decided to make 2049, they only had Hampton Fancher and a guy
named Michael Green, who I don't know any of his other work.
And I think that that is probably the primary problem that I have with the
movie is that it has a lot of what you're talking about kind of thematic
and immersive environments that bring you into the movie.
But when you actually look at the logic of the movie, it doesn't really make any sense.
So one of my biggest examples of the problem with the core of the story
is that Kay looks at the previous Nexus and he's got this little I thing
to detect its serial number.
And my question is, if Kay is a Nexus model,
then he probably has a serial number because he's a product.
So how come Kay can't detect his own serial number?
Can't he just look up until the left?
It's potential that it was wiped or something or scrubbed in some way.
I'm not defending it.
I'm just saying that's a potential if he's being used.
If that's possible, then why didn't the other replicant do that?
Why didn't he just take his eye out?
I don't know.
I'm just saying that it won't be because Kay's being used for alternative purposes.
It could be that it's been scrubbed like you would scrub the serial number off a gun.
When it comes to science fiction movies for myself,
I am less bothered by open-ended questions that aren't explained
and more bothered by very specific rules that the film sets up that it then contradicts.
But there's also a possibility of those existing in the film that I didn't really pick up,
but I'm more likely to call out something like Looper where they'd say,
this is how it works, and then they just do something different
versus it seems like a few of the issues in Blade Runner 2049 or more or less.
Why did this happen?
How did this happen?
But not necessarily.
Again, I haven't put much thought into the ins and outs of these,
but if there is any potential possibilities of explaining it,
the movie was already like two and a half hours long.
So to explain every detail of every situation
might not work well for a story or pacing perspective.
Well, maybe you agree that a lot of the problems with the modern Blade Runner
is more than it doesn't align with Dream of Electric Sheep and the original version
more than it is so within its own internal consistency.
I think there are problems with internal consistency in 2049,
but I think that more of the problems arise when you compare it to the source material.
Part of the reason I loved it so much is that it did do its own thing at the same time
because I'm really sick of seeing soft reboots or remakes for sequels,
especially that of 80s properties that are more or less just carbon copy, safe,
let's hit the exact same thing beat by beat force awakened style.
I agree with that, but I think that I would like to stay away from a dichotomy
of The Last Jedi versus The Force Awakens where I don't want to have,
oh, we do it in one direction and it's super nostalgic and reflective,
but it's ultimately hollow versus doing our own thing,
but it negates the consistency of the story.
I think that there's a healthy mix though.
I don't think it was like in one direction or the other.
I think that it was still faithful to a degree and you might disagree with that
while still being its own product and exploring its own story and presentation.
I mean, it was pretty level in that sense.
So you've seen Blade Runner.
What version would you consider to be the, not the official version,
but the one that would define canon or whatever you would call it?
I mean, I was told that it was the final cut, so I watched that.
But I haven't seen all the cuts for sure.
I'd be interested in seeing the terrible narration one because it sounds funny to me.
Oh, it's hilarious.
It's just terrible.
But that's apparently the one that Blade Runner 2049 is the sequel to
because the circumstances of the final cut don't play into the premise of Blade Runner 2049.
The idea that Rachel can get pregnant creates a new paradigm for what the series is talking about.
So instead of her just being a test of a new version of Replicant that doesn't know what it is,
she's now the first Replicant that has a womb that functions.
And that's what Wallace is trying to follow up with.
And then that also plays into the idea of is Deckard a Replicant or not?
Because if he's a Replicant, that means that there are two replicants that can have children now,
which I think is what 2049 is trying to imply because they spring in the third act that
resistance storyline that seems like it's taken from children of men.
So that to me is a huge change if you consider the final cut of the movie to be a definitive cut.
And then the original cut, I think, is the weak one where it says that they go and live happily
ever after. And even that changes because it has to be a retcon. It has to take place 30 years later.
Deckard has to be just like Indiana Jones where he doesn't know he has a kid and we have to go
through this process to get to the nostalgic center of the movie, which is Deckard.
And I think that a lot of these choices have made the movie subpar compared to the original one,
where I feel like I got a lot of philosophical and emotional satisfaction out of the
arcs of the characters. Whereas in 2049, I felt like I was watching the ending of Drive again.
What would you rate the film based on its presentation while completely ignoring
how cohesive it is to the original source material?
I would definitely like you're just talking about cinematography, talking about miniature.
Yeah, it's like to ignore whether or not the story is consistent with the original material.
Like surely there are things to appreciate outside of that about the film though, right?
Because that's the majority of the reason for me loving it.
I love the experience of the film for me. Yeah, I agree.
Set design, the technical elements of the film all mesh together really well for me.
Yeah, I mean, if I were to come out here and say that Deacon's is not one of the best
cinematographers of all time, then I'd be full of myself. If I didn't think that Denny
knew how to get the subtleties of performances out of his actors, then I'd never miss.
So like, maybe I'm too cynical a person. I think I'd give that an eight out of 10.
And the two points that I extract are for missing Vangelis's qualities.
I think that his soundtrack and the way that it immersed people into the movie,
and even immerse the actors because Ridley Scott used to play the soundtrack snippets.
Yeah, I heard about that. I watched a lot of the special features.
Yeah, there's a great three hour documentary called Dangerous Days about the production.
But it's great. Yeah. And Razor Fist does an hour long kind of condensed version of that.
But it's like his favorite movie. But I take away from the soundtrack because I think that
the soundtrack ended up being a little hollow. I think thematically and with what they were trying
to do with Kay as an artificial human that's trying to become human work. I think that some of
what Villeneuve, sorry, Villeneuve, what Denny does with Villeneuve,
sorry, like maybe Dead Cow and then of like deliberately pronounce it wrong in different
ways every time you see the new age, the French Canadian Denny Villeneuve.
Yeah, I think that he plays a lot of it in the Jesus. I think he plays out a lot of it in a
in the master. And they didn't get a lot of coverage in that. So some of the editing to
me seems a little stilted and some of the actions seem to take too long. I think you
could cut down the movie a little bit, especially the scene where he's walking towards the wooden
horse is just a lot of time that's spent trying to build extra suspense where I don't think that
there is. But presentation wise, I don't know. It's beautiful. Yeah, I really, I didn't have any
issues with the pacing at all. I found it very part of what helped it so much is that it didn't
really feel stagnant. Like it was always going from one place to another. And the set design
of each location was so dramatically different. And like you said, the color, the color palettes
were dramatically different in each location. And so whether or not it's trying to like build
suspense in any given scene, I think that it was still very atmospheric. Like there's always
something to kind of chew on in the movie in one way or another. And that's part of why I think
it's great. Would you say that there's another movie that does that similar thing where it may
not be as logically threaded, but it has a lot of atmosphere to it? Because I would say that apocalypse
now reminds me of that kind of. Yeah, I think that there's tons of movies.
You sound like a fucking ghost saying that. Well, well, you probably have.
You have you made a video about Blade Runner. You did.
Yeah, I totally agree with all that's been said, basically, other than disagreeing with Adam that
the writing is just kinds of kind of fails it in a big way. Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to this is
glib, by the way. He's someone I've known for a while from the disco. He's a friend of mine. And
I just I didn't this. This is not an ambush. It's literally just I did. I'm terrible with remembering
what I what I feel is wrong with Blade Runner. And I know that he has it on his mind. So I just
don't like I liked watching it, but I don't know enough about I can't remember. I enjoyed it. And
I enjoy I've read the book and I've seen obviously seen the original and I'm a huge I prefer the
original film. I think the original film is well has its own flaws in and of itself. But I think
that the new that the 49 is so it's a very enjoyable experience. And that doesn't excuse
its flaws. It's pretty it's it's logical flaws with the plot. But I do still think it's a good
movie and not. And I know that I mentioned this before, but I would just like to reiterate.
I still like trains. This feels so fucking weird right now.
Yeah, I just I just wanted to explain because I think there are a lot of people that don't know
who I am. Obviously, some people here. My background is that I grew up around the film
business and I've worked in it for the last 10 years. And I have a lot of interesting connections
through that and insight because of that. So that's why I wanted to seek out people to talk
to about it and learn because I have my own personal interest in trying to be a writer and
director. And I don't want to make movies that are going to upset this crowd of people that is
gathered here because it's like this is this is the fun part is that we can actually produce
better content. I will tell you this, my friend, if you're adapting anything that already exists,
you will always piss somebody off. Yeah, yeah, that's true. But you this is the question. Like,
do you? Well, shit, I don't want to do this. I always do this all the time. But
there's stuff from Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep that I really wish that they could put in
like the mood organ. Do you remember that, Aidan? Yeah. Like so I feel like that
the idea of adapting something is scares me for that reason. But I think that there's
a noble goal if you try to adapt something alongside the vision of the original writer.
And if you can get their approval, then I think you're doing some magic.
It can be again, I would go back to the Witcher to say that that's not always the case.
The Witcher is a really good example of this, actually, because not only did Andres Andres
Sapolsky kind of rip off of the Elric saga, not kind of he's admitted he ripped it off.
So you can't make him happy when CDPR or CD Projekt Red did everything that I could imagine
in their capacity to try to live up to his expectations and to extend his universe.
Still pissed him off. It pissed off some of the fans. It's always going to piss off somebody.
That's the problem with adapting. I would have been grateful you just sold me a shit ton of
books, mate. Thanks. Well, all I would say is that you are better off going with an original idea.
And that's now an original idea is harder to sell. It's not going to be as profitable,
potentially, because you don't have something backing it up. But when you're adapting something,
it's the whole problem with Star Wars, for example, or anything else.
People have read certain things or know certain things or get very,
you know, spurgy about stuff with good reason. And in many cases where, oh, this thing didn't
wasn't a part of it or that thing wasn't a part of it. And it's really just like it stifles your own
vision as a creator, I think, if you have to limit yourself to what someone's already created.
That's all I would say. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't I Dream of Electric Sheep and
Blader are not really all that alike is really Scott. There's a bunch of differences between them. Yeah.
Yes, there is. Yeah, they bother adapting.
I think that it's really hard to adapt Philip K. Dick's work, but the central idea that he's
starting with is so enticing that people try and make movies out of it. Has anybody here seen
Paycheck with Ben Affleck? New. Yeah, exactly. That's what I thought. That was a long time ago.
I think the most successful Philip K. Dick work was Minority Report.
Oh, yeah, I remember that. Because his writing is a little crazy, just like his train of thought was.
So you have to step in there and try and make something that audiences are going to enjoy.
And the failure of 2049 successful, like to be successful financially isn't a surprise because
the original one wasn't successful either. I think there's people that just don't vibe with the
premise or the setting. Well, I mean, like Tony, just they fucked up the marketing a little.
If they treated like one of their other properties in terms of like how heavily they marketed it,
I think that it would have been more successful. Do you think the marketing of the original or
2049 was the problem? I think it didn't do great compared to its budget. I think it probably made
its money back considering all, you know, home video and everything, but it wasn't a huge hit
for sure. But Sony didn't really treat the film as though they wanted it to be a huge hit.
They didn't really put out as many trailers as they should have for that type of property,
in my opinion. Sony has a lot of problems. I think that the movie is too down tempo for them to
advertise it in the way that they're accustomed to because everybody wants to put all of these
horns and blaring noises and stuff in their trailers. Like every trailer is the same now.
And marketing with that mentality doesn't really make sense.
But I just don't think that people are going to connect to that. Like it's not an action movie,
and people would want it to be sort of an action movie. It's not really a thriller. It's kind of
a slow boil. And I can't think of very many successful mainstream movies or science fiction
movies that are like that nowadays. I think that's relegated more to TV.
But there was something I just wanted to mention about the adaptation thing or
adaptation thing, which is the death of the author being invoked.
What would be a good example of that? What's like a movie that veers off that you guys are
going to drive it was adapted from a book? Oh, no, I just meant the example of death
of the author getting all fucking screwed up because of the director disagreeing with
a majority of fans interpretation of the ending. I thought that's what you're going with.
You're going with the book's canonical ending versus an adaptation of the book?
Yeah, because ultimately, the reason why I feel like 90% or something of the movies that come out
are adaptions is because of the producers that are buying something based on its notoriety or
its potential to be notorious. And then there are certain companies that focus on other things
like Anna Perna. Hang on. Roadside Picnic is a good example of something where the adapted
material really transformed it in a way that was unique and different from what the author
originally intended. So I think that as much as good as Roadside Picnic is, the stock remains
are their own thing. And I would say the same for the Witcher to a degree, but like there are
instances where someone can take The Shining. Yeah, it's also any Stephen King work, to be honest.
Not any Stephen King work, but there's a lot of them where adaptations are better.
The Mist. The Mist. The Mist. The Mist film is 100% better than the short story.
I hate that movie. I thought it was shit. What? I liked it. I'll fight you. I will fight you.
I'll fight you. I was recommended to over and over again. I thought it was awful.
What? Hold up. There's a good chance that you haven't even seen the real version of The Mist.
Yeah, because it. Frank Daribon originally wanted to present it in black and white.
And it's a very different experience watching the movie in that way. It really is.
It's so much more obvious what it's trying to go for. The effects look better, the color. Obviously
you don't have to do much with the color when it's in black and white. So everything just
looks more even and pleasant. It's whole atmosphere comes across much more as a
homage to like 1940s era horror films, which really really gets it across. And having read
the Stephen King short, I have to say that that film is by far and wide a better version of the
story. It's like a Ray Harryhausen kind of callback movie, which you would never understand
if you watch it in color, unfortunately. But black and white, it's just so much more clear
what it's going for. And it's a much better movie. I feel like black and white would bring out The
Mist and its quality. A good chance it would improve it. I wouldn't deny that. It doesn't.
I mean, if you don't like it, you don't like it. But I think that when it gives you a better idea
of what the director was going for, in terms of the original cut of the film in the black and
white, which does exist. I think if you buy like the Blu-ray version or whatever, it has the
Blu-ray disc too. I was going to say that The Shining would be another example of a Stephen King
story that was made into a movie in a different way. And I think it benefited from that. Yes.
The Shining is also another film. And again, it's a lot of Stephen King books.
Are good, but somebody is able to take them and turn them into something
that elevates them in a way or transforms them in a way that is interesting and different,
but still maintains some of the author's original intent and artistry.
Yeah. Isn't that the case with most of his movie? Shawshane Redemption.
Yeah. Stephen King is probably the primary example of this. Yeah.
I like it. Shawshane seems to be split on it. A lot of people saying it's amazing. It's
terrible. It's amazing. It's terrible. Maybe it's that kind of movie. I don't know.
I think very much the myth is a split movie. It has always been that way. As far as I can tell,
since it came out, I saw it in theaters and I thought it was really good in theaters. And
then I saw the actual cut of it and I thought it was way better. And so I think that it's very
much a love it or hate it. Was I supposed to laugh my ass over the twist ending?
You mean where everybody kills themselves? Yeah. Like I watched it with a friend. We
couldn't stop off and we thought it was so fun. A few films are as ballsy as that.
That's very, it is. I think it's pretty fucking ballsy. And that's like you never get that kind
of an ending in a horror film. I love that it's like the most depressing ending.
It is because it's one second. There's campiness too. When you watch it again in black and white,
the way it was originally supposed to be seen, it has it even like, oh man, it's such a weird
feeling. It's like if you've ever seen Brazil, do you know what I mean? The original cut of Brazil
was meant to have a happy ending. But if you've seen the actual cut of Brazil, the way it's supposed
to end, that's a really ballsy ending to put a film on. And I think that the mist was a dangerous
take for the director to do. And I think it's one of the reasons why the film did so poorly in
theaters is because people wanted the happy ending. And if you think it's funny, I can't
argue with that. Obviously that's your take on it. But I think that it was a really interesting film.
Yeah. I mean like even in the black and white version, part of why I enjoy it is because of its
campiness. But when you watch it in that way, it seems more intentional than unintentional. And it
kind of changes the lens at which you view it as. So there's things about them. Like when I first
watched the movie, the color version, even though I enjoyed parts of it and I enjoyed
ideas that it tried to communicate, still I thought it was kind of bad. But watching it in
black and white after the fact, it's like, wow, it totally changes your perception of how you view
a lot of what's in the film in terms of what the intent is. So when it's trying to mimic pre-color
cheesy horror, it's a lot more enjoyable of an experience when you know that that's kind of what
it's going for. Right, right. And in fact, the director, I'm sorry, I can't remember his name,
but he worked on the Walking Dead as well, which is like all the actors that are in the mist or in
the Walking Dead. But the thing is that, yeah, when you see it through the lens of the film being an
intentional cheesy 1940s era horror film, it does change it because then you don't see it as being
so sincere and serious. And it becomes a very silly, well, maybe not silly is the right word,
but it's a very different tone that you get from it. And I would recommend everybody watch the
director's cut version of it because it's fantastic, in my opinion. Now, I also think
the director's cut of Daredevil is a good film, so don't take my word on everything.
Don't worry, we're allowed controversial takes on here. 2019, we've gone through seasons of
controversial takes, right, Ranks? That's all it's been this year.
I think only those of us who are still in 2019 should be allowed to talk about it. I mean,
you guys left. You guys left. You didn't stick around like us OGs did.
Well, I'm just trying to set the table ready for you.
Mullers is gone.
Trying to get everything ready for you, Ranks. Like they just they dropped me in this place.
I don't know. What do you want me to do? Like, I'm just trying to get all ready for you.
They didn't get sent to being in 2020.
Sorry, I've not said anything for so long that I am.
Oh, shit. Jay's here.
I thought he was kicked.
And I'm sorry, 40 is that your name? I've never met you before. I'm sorry. Sweet.
My speed is so so we're already in the future.
So I mean, I love to give to give hot takes on the decade ahead.
I was going to say, you guys want like lottery numbers?
Well, hang on to that. Chase, do you need to eject? So is that what's happening?
Yes.
I must depart. I have stuff to do and girlfriend time to spend.
She gets on the way of the TV.
You violence.
But what is wrong with man? Explain.
Penis.
Oppression. Wait.
Penis apparently. Oh, my God.
But if you're being impressed by a penis, please call some kind of number.
I don't know what number to call.
It's looking at me.
But I did want to say before I leave.
Thank you, Jeff, for all the love you have shown the folks.
Uh, thanks for having me, Mahler. And it was nice talking to all of you guys.
It's really funny because I've watched a lot of your guys's content like, you know,
years before or year plus singular plural before I'd even like met you.
So it's it's kind of crazy that like I've gotten to this point where it's like,
I can just hang out in a stream with you guys.
So it's always very fun. Thank you for having me.
Correct.
And yeah, definitely. And I hope we get to do it again sometime soon.
Keep up the good work. All you funny, talented fuckers.
And have a happy New Year.
Same goes to chat. Kisses to all of you.
And sorry that I'm leaving right as you're getting here, Glenn.
It was definitely very interesting hearing your thoughts,
though. I hope we get the chance to chat again in the near.
Anytime, man, it'd be great. I'm starting my own YouTube channel.
This is kind of a big plug and a dream of mine and happy New Year, man.
Dude, hell yeah. I'll end you.
Anyway, fuck all of you. Bye.
That was Chase face.
I'm going to put links to every guest once this gets re-uploaded.
But he was on the last stream.
If you guys want to check him out, Chase face.
Very easy to find YouTube. Do it.
How many faces is he actually just the one?
Just the one.
I don't know, but I'm going to I'm going to chase him down
so we can talk about Final Fantasy 11 because that's something nobody wants to hear.
Well, yeah.
I like Final Fantasy one.
Glib, do you have an actual YouTube to plug now?
Is that what you were saying?
I'm finishing up my response to Patrick Willems and then I.
Oh, which Patrick Willems video?
I love how like of all the things you could be doing,
that's like one of the best ways to advertise yourself on eFap right now.
It's like I'm responding to Patrick Willems like, oh my God, subscribe, subscribe.
Certain things just have a give me a passionate reason to respond to.
And it's the storytelling language of Star Wars one,
which is frustrating to me because I like the objectivity angle that you're coming from,
where there is sort of a uniform understanding of how films are made.
There's a language that has to do with camera movements,
panning, tilting, trucking.
There's specific terms that mean something.
And Patrick kind of just shits all over it in his video.
He doesn't mention cinematography or a director of photography once in his video.
There's an objectivity.
Yeah, so it's it's really frustrating because he's basically,
he I boil down his arguments to basically he thinks that subjectivity in cinematography
is doing a dolly in like what Spielberg does or doing something weird with the camera,
like what De Palma does.
And I just go and explain the reasons why Star Wars has a certain look to it.
It has a certain aesthetic and feel.
And you can't really go outside the lines,
but you can kind of bend the rules a little bit in your style.
And when that is ditched, people start to tune out.
So when you get something that looks like resistance,
people aren't going to enjoy it.
And on the other hand, people love those Knights of the Old Republic trailer movies,
which are have Star Wars written all over it in the way that it's shot
in the composition of the music.
Do you want to throw a link in the chat so I can flism it a bit?
I don't know.
I don't know if you want to or not.
Well, it's just.
Yeah, sure.
It's my channel right here.
I have a couple of memes on it right now.
That's kind of shitty.
It's OK.
It's it's just so because a lot of people are asking for it
and then I'll pop it in the chat so people can know that in the future,
they will expect a response of a kind to Patrick House Willems.
This is kind of the last of his name.
Oh, for sure.
That line is not going on.
Rise of Skywalker ruined him.
Yeah, I'm glad that Rise of Skywalker came out to the chagrin of all of the Last Jedi.
Yeah, it was imagine being destroyed by a fucking film.
You've never been destroyed by a film you've never lived.
I mean, I've certainly been sad by one, but I've continued living.
Speaking of memes, did any of you guys happen to see my terrible Star Wars?
No, I haven't yet.
I feel terrible.
Star Wars what?
meme.
Oh, no.
I got a hold of one of the I'll post it.
I got a hold of one of the early one up early,
but a leak of a supposed thing that that Doomcock posted and I made a video about it.
It's really all.
It's basically an Evangelion meme, but the thing is, I'm not ashamed of it
because it turned out that it was all true in the law.
It's true.
Oh, I wonder if we can split the cast here on Mad Max Fury Road.
What does everyone think about that in terms of film of the decade?
Oh, my God.
Okay.
Oh, God.
I feel like we're gonna have a discussion here because I was just talking about it the other
day.
Actually, not just talking about it.
I was rewatching your video, and I was rethinking about my opinions towards that film,
which is that I think here's my opinion towards Fury Road.
I hate the story.
I hate almost all of the characters, but it is so fun to watch.
I will say the presentation.
Yeah, I don't know.
I love the heavy metal shit.
I like people playing guitars that shoot fire on the top of a car.
There's something that's very enjoyable about that to me.
Is it a terrible movie overall?
From every objective stance, yes.
From every objective, from every way that you could actually critically analyze a film,
Fury Road is pretty shit.
Even special bald statement.
Very bald state.
What about the soundtrack?
I can't remember it, so what does that mean?
That's not fair.
I mean, I don't have the soundtrack that much.
I didn't rewatch it.
I was just thinking about it, so I was like, I can't remember what the soundtrack was.
But you'd at least give them points for practical effects, right?
The practical effects are what's fun, and it's fun.
Again, it's fun to watch.
It's literally brain melting, I guess.
You know what I mean?
It's like your brain is a movie that is made to have you not think about what is happening
in front of you, because it's like, oh, wow, this is very exciting.
But the story is the stupidest shit.
It's way up there.
It's not the stupidest thing I've ever seen, but it's way up there with some of the dumbest crap.
And it's completely pointless, considering it's just a big roundabout of nothing happens.
When they pour, they free and pour the water all over the people.
I was like slamming my head against the desk.
I was like, I can't believe you're doing this.
You're wasting 90% of that shit.
Oh, I know.
Because it's just, well, no, how many times, how about when all, yeah, when all of the bitches.
They have a fucking shower, yeah.
Just shower in the middle of the desert, where it's like, we got this truck full of water,
which is more valuable than anything else in this weird wasteland.
And we're just going to take a shower and just pour it all over the desert.
The movie itself logistically makes absolutely no goddamn sense.
It's a mess.
And it, and I think you already said this, is it like,
it's called Mad Max, and Mad Max is not the star of his own film.
Yeah, but I'm told, because I haven't watched the other ones,
that that's kind of a running theme in all the sequels.
Yeah, it is.
Although I would also say, you know, sequels.
I think it's funny that, sorry, you're, I didn't mean.
No, that's fine.
Oh, I was just going to say that it's funny that the entire movie is based on the hope
that there's this green place, and then they have to turn back around when they run out of hope.
Yeah.
And, and then when, I think it's funny because people were saying it's like a feminist movie,
and I thought it was like the least feminist movie of all time that like,
take over, everything goes to shit.
Seriously, if you've seen what happened to that place one month ahead of time,
I think they'd all be dead.
Yeah, they would be.
The movie is so stupid in terms of they would all be dead because they,
they have no idea what they're doing.
And, and it's a good point is that if you were living in a post apocalypse Australia,
or just Australia now, I don't know, it would probably be better to be a sex slave.
That's a.
Australia now it's better.
Hey, it's better than just farming for the rest of your life.
I'll be a sex slave.
Let's fucking do it.
Rags, I don't doubt that you would prefer to be a sex slave.
Wouldn't you think it depends on who's slave, I suppose.
I like autonomy.
I mean, I like sex, but I also like.
I stopped paying attention to the rule set and the resources of the movie when they
referred to a place as bullet town.
Bullet town.
Yes.
Bullet town and gun town or something like that.
They don't even have like names for the places that are outside of the main Oasis place.
I feel like it's a, it's a very straightforward trip.
I don't know.
Are you saying it suggests the writers aren't really concerned with the things beyond the action?
I think that they are not, I think that they say something and then they present to you
something that is extremely stylized.
And because it's so well made, we kind of go back into realism and we forget that there's
dirt bikers dropping grenades or going off jumps and that why would they do that?
Because I can believe there's a place called bullet town and like a post-apocalyptic world.
Yeah.
Gas town.
Yeah, I can't like I legit can.
What would you call that?
I'm not saying I'm not saying if I'm unbelievable.
Sex slave town.
I just like the idea is like, there's only like three options.
I'm the mayor of sex slave town.
Well, I mean, let's get real, it is absolutely the best.
Everything about that movie is plot makes no sense.
Again, I know I'm going to get hate for this, the fact that I like the heavy metal effects of it.
But I think you can enjoy a movie's visual effects while admitting that the movie sucks.
Yes.
T.L.J.?
Yes.
Very in favor of that here.
The hyperspace scene in The Last Jedi was cool.
Made no fucking sense whatsoever, but it was cool.
It was one in a million.
Why did they say that?
I like the idea that he's like, I'm fixing T.L.J.
It's like, JJ, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Made something terrible, even worse somehow.
Okay, I want to I want to hop out here.
Before I go, Aidan, you're like the only person who's likely to see things, right?
Have you seen what?
Sorry, you cut out for a second.
I'm about to say what?
Have you seen either Children of Earth or Death Comes to Time?
No, actually.
Are those Doctor Who episodes?
No, then.
Well, no, neither of them are.
I'm Children of Man, yeah.
Children of the Corn?
No, I haven't done.
So no, I'm completely stupid on this.
You should watch both of those things.
And now I'm sad, because if you've not seen them.
No, I'm sorry.
Well, all right.
Hang on.
Let me get my note.
No, I really will.
I write everything down.
Children of Earth and what?
Death Comes to Time.
Death Comes to Time is peak, Doctor Who.
Oh, they are Doctor Who episodes, then.
So I might have.
I don't remember the name.
No, Children of Earth is, they're both spin-off stuff.
So Death Comes to Time is what was originally marketed as the ending of the classic series,
but it wasn't like an episode.
It was like audio stuff.
Oh, oh, oh.
You know, I'm just about the Doctor Who audio stuff.
I know there's so much of it.
I'm completely clueless.
And then Children of Earth is the Torchwood.
It's a Torchwood thing?
It is.
It's really good.
Is it Torchwood episode or is it Torchwood?
It's the whole season.
The whole season is an arc.
I've seen it.
I've seen every episode of Torchwood.
So I just don't remember.
I don't remember what this is.
It's been 10 years, 20 years since I've seen Torchwood.
That's even worse.
Why would I rewatch Torchwood?
I'm Welsh.
Why would I rewatch that?
You're Welsh?
And be reminded of what the best are.
My people historically have to offer in terms of attractive women.
I didn't know you were Welsh.
Yeah, genetically, I guess, whatever.
High five.
High five.
I thought I was like the only Welsh guy on the internet.
I mean, I'm an American, but my whole family's from Wales.
And they don't like have internet in most of Wales.
I guess you guys may call that rape juice.
How is molar connecting to the internet right now, then?
Series of tubes.
A series of tubes.
That's an ancient meme right there.
I feel like now that it's 2020, we need to bring back like early 2000s.
Rage comics?
No, we can skip that.
No, maybe those just...
Series of tubes, I agree with.
Maybe those stay dead.
He's blowing the past like a third.
I want to say like a series of ironic.
Yeah, it's ironic.
It's completely ironic.
That's the whole point.
But I'll check it out.
I don't know the audiobook, but I'll check that out
because I do like audio stuff or the audio drama.
I've been trying to persuade you to watch it and he hasn't done.
You haven't watched everything.
I know that.
I know that.
Well, then what I'm suggesting is you owe me way more than I owe you.
That's true.
Before I hop out, I'm just going to see if anyone in chat knows anything about what I'm doing there.
And no, I don't know.
Most people don't know what you're talking about.
Watches and television programs.
Children's cartoons, Jay, stop it.
All right, I'm going to go.
Bye, Jay.
Thanks.
I'll check it out.
Yeah, totally do.
Go.
Thank God.
I use Jesus.
All right.
So we can actually talk about normal things now.
Dr.
Hill.
Well, I have a suggestion for a good film of the decade or one of the best.
Okay.
I know one of us or one of you agrees with me.
Captain America Civil War.
Oh God.
E R M Y.
I'm asking it triggered.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't really get too upset about other people enjoying things that I might not.
We do.
We hate it.
Like when it comes to like Marvel movies like that, I just like, you know, they're just not for me.
I'm like really not invested in them.
The same way, you know, Star Wars.
Yeah, I don't know.
Let me ask you about that.
I probably agree with this is that I just don't.
I think Marvel movies are so inoffensive in that they're so milk toast color by the book.
You know, it's kind of like hard to get mad about them.
And that's not coming as somebody who's like a huge fan of the comic books.
I don't give a shit about Marvel movies that I can't get.
I didn't get excited about Infinity War.
I didn't get excited about any of that shit.
It was just kind of like, oh, okay.
It's another Marvel movie.
But what is it?
What is it that's causing you guys to not like it?
Like what would a Marvel movie have to do to impress both?
Would it have to be better cinematography or writing or death?
No.
Death.
No, because like so when it comes to the presentation.
Stakes.
Yeah, stakes.
Stakes.
Do anything different.
Well, yeah.
I mean, like I enjoyed Infinity War because there were stakes in that movie.
So that actually helped in that sense.
Infinity War.
They weren't really stakes, were they?
I know.
But for that movie there.
Oh, here we go.
There weren't when you got to the movie after that.
But for that movie, there were some stakes, I think.
So and you know, it ended in a way that didn't wrap things up in a nice happy bow.
You know, I liked that.
It was also really well paced because they were forced to
include so many different storylines that they cut out a lot of the fat.
Usually in Marvel movies, there's a lot of like,
kind of forced comedic breaks that I'm not really a fan of.
Like, I'd never really get too much into the humor.
And I found that that was really trimmed down for Infinity War.
It felt like every scene more or less had an excuse or a purpose towards being there.
It didn't really feel like it dragged on.
So that's really what helped my experience there.
When it comes down to like the overall presentation of Marvel movies,
they're not like terribly presented, but they do kind of feel bland to some extent.
You don't really see much of the director's personality at all,
which is part of why whenever you got like a director
who really wanted to have their personality shine, like Edgar Wright,
that wound up getting canceled because, you know,
then it would just conflict.
Would you explain James Gunn?
Marvel wanted the films to be like, yeah,
James Gunn has like his own comedic personality,
but it's not so much in the directing style.
I don't think you don't think so.
I think that is very kind of unique.
There's elements there, but nothing like nothing
that I would really consider to be enough to write home about, honestly.
Yeah, I just, the music is really unmemorable for the most part.
There's a great every frame of painting video on the scores.
It's not great.
The Marvel universe.
And there's someone, someone did a response to it and debunked most of it.
In terms of my own experience with Marvel movies in general,
I would say that the biggest reason why I'm not huge on them
is because they're all right to me.
There's nothing like so exceptional about the way that they're presented
or really any element for me as someone who's not already invested in these characters.
I'm not like a comic book person.
So when it comes down to the presentation,
when everything is just like fine, and especially also the story,
like you can kind of predict where things are going.
You know how it's going to end for the most part in every film.
I want to see something that's either so terrible that I'm entertained
or so amazing that I'm entertained.
But when we get down to like the middle of the road,
just like this was all right.
I really just like I prefer not to watch those movies
when I could essentially take a Marvel film and imagine how it's going to be
and get more or less the same experience as going to the theater
when I could just sit at home and imagine it instead.
I completely agree as someone who is invested in the characters,
who has read hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of comic books.
I don't care.
And that sounds bad, but it's like I'm honestly more interested in DC movies
only because they're so likely to be terrible,
as much as they are to be decent.
And I don't know what that is in me.
You know, I do know what it is.
I know what it is is that I showed up.
I used to go to Marvel releases in costume.
I was that kind of fan.
And I showed up to see Man of Steel in a costume.
And I'm a huge Superman fan.
And my friend who hates Superman sat next to me in the theater
and watched every bit of joy and happiness and excitement drain out of my face.
And I have never felt anything about a comic movie since then.
I understand that I waited four hours to see the premiere of Indiana Jones 4
because I was excited to see an Indiana Jones movie in theaters.
And that didn't really go so well.
It kind of killed my enthusiasm.
But as for the MCU, what did you guys think of the boys in comparison?
I love it, but I'm looking I'm looking forward to it, at least.
Okay, yeah, you got it.
Seems like something that might be up my alley.
I don't want to do anything for me anymore.
I want something different from them.
And let me let me put it this way, okay?
Because the Marvel movies are following the exact same trend
that the comic books are following,
which is that they kind of they go towards a certain thing
that they're that an actual stake, if you want to call it that they're going to.
Oh, man, like with Endgame.
Oh, man, people are actually going to die.
And then they immediately reverse it.
Let me let me put it this way.
There was a really good story.
And this is really this is really good, both in Marvel with Daredevil
as it was reflected reflected in DC with Green Lantern series.
In Green Lantern, it was with oh, shoot, with the parallax.
And with Daredevil, it was the story called Shadowland,
where in Daredevil story and in Green Lantern story,
they became the bad guys.
They became a true supervillain.
And then in both stories, they got dropped
because we can't let that character actually become a bad guy
because they're the good guy.
And in the parallax storyline, it was like 10 years of time that had passed.
So it was far longer for how Jordan to be, quote unquote, redeemed.
But I see the things that I dislike about comic books
now being reflected in comic book movies.
And what I like in comic books,
particularly something that DC has done well.
And this is true is in legacy characters.
So we have Batman should pass the mantle to Dick Grayson,
who should pass the mantle to, I don't know,
Jason Todd or whoever, or to Damian Wayne.
That's what's fun is seeing the mantle past.
Having the same characters rehash the same stories,
rehash the same problems over and over again is boring.
And even for me as a comic book fan, it's stupid.
But the stakes only have to be whether or not a character dies.
No, it does not.
It has to we have to see the character grow and change.
Yeah, but we have done that with several characters over the MCU
and Civil War tape makes use of all of that in their story.
They don't know they really did.
I think that that Marvel has done a pretty good job.
I will say Marvel's done a far better job in DC than Warner because Warner is shit.
But comparatively, we have seen a lot of these characters change,
but I don't see where this is going forward.
I guess they had to introduce all new characters.
I want to see characters grow and change and then be passed on.
And if Marvel is willing to actually do that, to be done with Captain America,
to be done with with a lot of these characters, then I'm fine with that.
Like Hawkeye, for example, is one of my favorite superheroes,
one of my favorite characters in all of Marvel.
And I like him in the MCU, even though he is a completely different character
than he is in the comics, because he's had an arc.
We've seen Hawkeye be a different person in every movie that he's been in
for the small amount that he's been in.
So there are little bits of those movies that I like,
but overall, I find them very predictable.
And because they're predictable, I guess I would compare every MCU movie
is very much like Avengers versus X-Men as a comic book story,
which is that I know what's going to happen.
I know how this is going to turn out.
It will always return to the status quo.
And that to me is boring.
And that's just my opinion.
But I mean, again, as someone who's been reading comics my entire life,
I don't want to see the MCU movies go the same way
the comics have been going for decades.
I think that that's what's going to happen, unfortunately,
is that we're going to have a bunch of obscure stories
that are going to kind of unwind the big buildup that the MCU has.
And maybe they'll try and go back and do an alternate version
of the same characters, because we've already kind of used up
all of the big money plot lines that people are aware of.
Kind of like the Star Wars situation.
I'll just I'll just take the complete reverse position.
I think that the MCU for the past decade has actually been
some of the most stellar mainstream character work.
We've actually been able to see from a giant corporation.
They've been setting trends and teaching people
how the fuck this works with characters.
Iron Man's Journey is one of the best cinematic character
development sequences I've seen.
Caps is amazing.
Oh, for a major series.
I agree.
For a major series, yes.
I guess that I'm being too harsh.
The stakes of Civil War through the roof on an internal level.
And then Infinity War is the external.
Civil War's question is, will the heroes even be able to...
Is it legal for them to defend the world anymore?
And how will they ethically move forward with that
on top of the fact that they actually have a struggle internally
that has splintered them completely?
So now half of them are vigilantes
and the other half work for the government.
It's fascinating to me.
To some extent, yeah.
But for a major...
I'm not like huge into it, honestly.
Like the...
In terms of like a major franchise having a character develop over time.
Yeah, it's one of the better ones for sure.
There aren't that many franchises that span over this long
with this many films and stories within them in the first place.
And they handled it really well in terms of connecting everything together.
It's a very well-oiled machine.
And that's why you see so many other studios trying to replicate that
and doing their own extended universe and whatnot.
When it comes down to the stakes,
I'm usually in most PG-13 superhero movies.
I don't really feel too invested in the stakes.
Even when it came to Civil War, I just...
I'm not a huge fan of Iron Man.
I find him kind of annoying personally.
And when the conflict of that movie was like,
oh, should we be able to save people
or should we get the bureaucratic powers of the United Nations
to sign off on it first?
Wrong.
I found that a little silly, honestly.
Like, yeah, the villain will wait.
They'll wait for you to get the sign off.
Come on.
Wrong.
I don't know.
I wasn't really into that.
I would say that I agree with you that.
That's not what happens.
The character development that has happened in the MCU
has been fantastic for being a major motion picture franchise.
We do see characters like Iron Man in particular change,
although I also think that we'll look at...
Let's just take Iron Man, okay?
Let's just take Iron Man.
He kind of stopped developing after a certain point.
What point would you pick?
I'm ready for this fight.
Let's go.
Iron Man's one of the best character duties in cinema history.
Okay.
I wanted Iron Man to be an alcoholic in Iron Man 3
instead of having PTSD.
Iron Man 3 is the big fuck up,
but Civil War attempts and successfully fixes
the fuck up of Iron Man 3 quite significantly.
I think it does.
Making use of the PTSD while removing the fact
that everyone's laughing at it.
It becomes super serious and informs all of these decisions.
Well, it does become more serious.
Here's the thing.
I think that the MCU takes careful steps in a lot of places
because it is so calculated.
It's calculated in a good way in terms of being very entertaining for everybody,
but I do feel like Iron Man is barely a character
in a lot of the movies that he shows up in afterwards,
like in Spider-Man Homecoming or even in...
Can I just interject really quick?
Yeah, sure.
We can debate on Homecoming.
Because I'm trying to separate the writing
from the presentational aspects in my mind
because I feel like my problem with the movie
is that it has kind of a boring palette to it
and the CGI doesn't look very good.
And that combination with the kitschy writing
is what makes it known as a Marvel movie.
And that can be done well and it can be done poorly.
But the character aspect of it, I feel like when you consider
that this is a recurring series that has movies that are singular movies,
but then it also has recurring characters in it
that are from other things,
they don't necessarily have to have an arc within that story
that they're being presented in.
Like if Iron Man shows up in an Avengers thing,
his arc isn't going to be the same kind of arc
as if he has more screen time in his own movie.
So like if a character comes in and acts
the way that you expect them to in a Marvel movie,
I don't think that that's a point against the story.
And I'm not exactly sure if it's the actual character
and storytelling of their arc that's the problem
as much as it is the way that it's presented
and feels like a TV show sometimes.
I think, I feel like a TV show,
do you mean like it's a revert back to the status quo
at the start of the new episode?
Because that's really-
I don't think it's the, I don't think it's on the creative writing side.
I think it's on the directorial production side because-
It's almost impossible, right?
When you have so many people working on these movies
to have characters and look,
I don't even think that,
because this is a problem in the comic books themselves as well,
is that anytime that a writer takes over a character,
they give their own voice,
they give their own life to that character
that could be different from another writer.
And I feel like all I see that's happening in the MCU
is exactly what I have seen happening in comic books for 40 years.
Yeah, but okay, let me just break that down
because I know I've talked to Mahler about this before,
but I met with some people that work for Marvel,
this guy that worked for the Donner Company, Derek Hoffman.
Shout out to him.
I really like that guy.
He's a writer and he was working on an X-Men related show
and he was basically the nerd version of the script editor.
He was in charge of making sure
that everything was fitting into the Marvel canon
and ultimately the feeling of Marvel comics in television format.
And he broke down to me that the priorities are the story first,
so what the script is entailing
and what they're trying to tell the story,
you know, the plot, everything.
And then the budget is secondary.
And then comic book fans are the third priority
because the actual subscription of Marvel comics
is only like 200,000 readers or something.
And the mainstream audiences that watch Marvel content
are mainstream audiences.
They're not comic book fans.
So even though I agree with like the fandom menace
and all the comic book fans that are,
you know, your boy Zach and all these people
that are speaking truth to the comic book industry,
they're not the target market.
So when we see Civil War
and we see the characterization of Tony Stark
and Captain America's argument being almost inverted
from the comic book plot line,
but it's still the comic book plot line,
we get a little bit upset.
But if we disconnect ourselves from that presentation
and realize they're presenting these stories
to the mainstream audience,
I think you'll appraise it in a different fashion.
Mahler convinced me that the Civil War division
is just as good as the one that's in the comic book,
like their values.
I think you're just understanding me.
I really don't like the Civil War comic book.
I much prefer the movie over the comic book.
The comic book was a shit show.
Comic book was a shit show for so many reasons.
I didn't dislike Civil War.
My only point was that my only point in all of this,
because apparently people are really mad at me now,
the thing is, my only point about the Marvel Cinematic Universe
is that I kind of don't care about it.
That's my only point on it.
In terms of Civil War, I thought it was one of the better movies.
I thought Winter Soldier was better.
I'll put it that way.
I liked Winter Soldier better than Civil War.
I thought Civil War was a great film.
I liked Endgame.
I liked Infinity War.
I thought, well, Endgame, I didn't like so much
as Infinity War.
Infinity War is going to be,
but I just don't have any more emotional energy
to put into these films
when every single one seems to end with the status quo being resumed.
That's like the opposite of Civil War, though.
The status quo is destroyed by the end of Civil War.
Was it, though?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Are you guys trolling me right now?
No, it's been a while since I've seen it.
It's when it's Civil War came out, like five years ago.
You're going to have to do a Civil War video.
No, no, no, please.
No, because I legitimately don't remember.
It's been a while.
So what ended in Civil War changed the status quo.
So as far as the government...
Please, I'm not trying to be confrontational.
As far as the government consumed,
Captain America, Black Widow, Captain Falcon,
not Vision, Scarlet Witch.
Captain Falcon.
Whoever else is on their team, for lack of memory right now,
they're all vigilantes.
If they're seen, they'll be arrested, if not killed.
That's their position at the end of that movie.
That position prevents them from being a united team
for when Thanos attacks,
and there's a very good argument to be made
that if they were all one united team,
they would have defeated him.
That's how Iron Man feels at the beginning of Endgame.
He blames Captain America for all of what happens.
Okay.
Yeah, I guess, but I have to rewatch it.
I will have to rewatch it, because I don't...
What was he saying?
How would they have stood up to Thanos at all?
I don't get that.
Well, they came seconds from defeating him,
if not for Peter, as in Peter Quill, fucking up.
Iron Man, fighting him one on one,
actually manages to put up a fight,
but imagine the rest of the Avengers being there.
So that's the fault of Civil War that they weren't there?
Sure, they're not a connected team.
But isn't it a kind of a coincidence
that he got on the ship and was brought there?
All that?
Iron Man and Spider-Man, I guess.
Oh, well, he's reacting, right?
And they meet up with Doctor Strange.
They're all in the city.
The Avengers compound is in...
Or is it near New York?
I'm not 100% sure on that.
Yes, it's in New York.
The Avengers compound is outside of New York.
But the thing is that this exact same stuff
happens in the Infinity Gauntlet as well,
in terms of the original comic book adaptation.
Not everybody is always together in the comic books as well.
I guess to me, I don't know.
I guess because I'm looking at this stuff
as somebody who's read all the original source material.
And I'm not saying...
By the way, don't get me wrong,
because that is not...
What I'm saying is not that,
oh, it's not close to the source material.
In fact, what I'm saying is the opposite,
that the source material is boring.
And I'm saying it as a comic book fan.
Yeah, but that's...
They chose this material
because they ultimately had a meta-narrative
that they wanted to plan ahead of time.
And they needed a big bad.
And the biggest bad that they could come up with was Thanos.
I mean, in the comic books.
Thanos is a great villain.
Infinity Gauntlet is a great comic.
It is a great graphic novel.
However, I'm just afraid...
Oh, I love George Perez.
But the thing is that the failure of comic books
is that they are cyclical in nature.
And why I have stopped carrying...
Okay, when the first couple of Marvel movies came out,
and I mean, the original Iron Man, Thor,
even though it wasn't very good.
Captain America, the first one, which was also not that good.
But a lot of those early movies,
I was very, very excited for them.
And I loved the original Avengers.
And I was very excited for it.
But I started to feel like the movies were a little bit repetitive
in that I didn't feel as if there was any stakes anymore.
And maybe that's me being cynical.
Well, if we refocus those, you said that the status quo wasn't changed.
If we just...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Has the status quo changed after the end of the Civil War?
Yes.
And you write an example of that.
Well, and I would agree it has not at the end of Avengers
and Avengers Age of Ultron.
And I guess, like the status quo does change at the end of Winter Soldier.
Shield is destroyed.
They're replaced by the task force,
which you could argue is less of a status quo change.
And I wouldn't necessarily disagree with you.
But then I would actually refocus on saying
that the main status quo changes in Marvel
are way more focused on character.
But Civil War shakes up the most.
Of all of the Marvel films,
Civil War probably does the most with the...
I have to...
Because look, now there's so many Marvel films
that I have to even try to remember what happened in each one.
So...
But doesn't that remind you of the first time that you read the comics?
Because that's... my takeaway has been that
it's been one of the most interesting ways to introduce the comic book
experience to people that don't read comic books.
Because most people don't know anything about this.
No, it does not remind me of my experience reading the comics.
Because when I think about my experience reading comic books...
And this is just my...
Okay, so...
This is my subjective experience.
Which is stupid and bullshit.
In my opinion.
In my opinion.
But no, seriously, I can think about times
where I've read X-Factor.
And I can tell you what happened in this issue of X-Factor.
And I could tell you that on top of my head.
And I'm not saying that...
I can remember the earlier Marvel movies better than I can.
A lot of the ones that...
Like Age of Ultron, I barely remember.
I know I...
What? I fell asleep.
Now, I know apparently that's my meme.
But I fell asleep during...
What was it?
Oh, actually one of the good X-Men movies.
The Days of Future Past, I fell asleep during.
I did watch it later.
But I fell asleep in the theater during that.
Whatever.
It's so much.
And if you want to call it superhero fatigue,
maybe that's just what I get from it.
And I guess that is my own experience.
But that is my experience as someone
who's read all the comics.
And so your mileage may vary on that.
As a superhero comic book fan,
my mileage is very being bored by seeing things that I read 20...
Well, I'm not even 30 yet.
But seeing things that I read 10 years ago rehashed.
And not seeing a lot of...
Now, I would say that at the end of the total of the Marvel story,
we do get a lot of character resolution.
Iron Man has a complete character arc.
Captain America has a complete character arc.
We see these characters grow and change.
But a lot of the individual films feel hollow.
I would say Civil War is one of the better ones.
But...
I mean, that's kind of what I'm trying to defend.
Because you'll find I'm one of the biggest attackers of certain Marvel films.
Like, I think Captain Marvel is one of the worst films of the mainstream.
It's just terrible.
Like, in every aspect of writing.
It's kind of insane.
Like shit.
Captain Marvel is what non-Marvel fans think Marvel movies are.
Yeah, like, I'll call a spade a spade.
I just...
I don't know.
Just a lot of the arguments for Civil War often just run out pretty quick.
Like, Adam, you're still here, right?
Yeah.
You know, like Hulk jumping around to save the world from horrible aliens
that'll destroy the entire planet.
Is it okay if he kills a few civilians while doing that?
Yes.
Okay, what about like a hundred?
If the stakes are everybody dies or some number less than everybody dies,
I think that the option is not everybody dies.
This is just gonna be a series of questions.
Should anyone be accountable for the families of those people?
Um, so, okay.
So in Civil War where they were like...
I saw it only once when I was in theater.
So was there some sort of plot element of people seeking some sort of like damages financially?
Well, we see that we see that these the countries are uniting over the fact
that the Avengers don't seem to care about what they leave behind.
There's like this many aspects of the film.
Dare I say, it's the theme.
Um, but not only that, somebody directly implicates Iron Man as the reason why the sun died.
Yeah, there was that kind of like a moment near the beginning where they were like,
you know, all these hundreds of people that that die from really far away in the Avengers,
actually, they're real people.
We needed to remember about that.
Yeah, I mean, like, of course, they're going to be like moral implications to it.
But when this when you're dealing with this kind of universe,
where literally, there's characters that can just blow up the planet.
I mean, if you if you got to act fast, you should probably do that.
Like, it's a show.
Sure. So let's let's put a big thing off on every action.
Let's put a big take on Hulk.
He's good.
Even like, even if we have those families in the room and be like,
guys, he saved the world.
Okay, so fuck off.
All right, good stuff.
Next person cap downing the helicarriers in Washington after he'd had them neutralized,
which actually goes against what Captain Fury wanted.
And his reasoning was these weapons in anyone's hands are too fucking dangerous.
So I'm going to crash them all.
And there's people screaming.
He destroys like this enormous building.
And they're cleaning up the wreckage for it.
Eight years later, we got to throw away line in homecoming to say that.
Um, so I mean, like, if if we're going to talk about Captain America doing something
dangerous for no reason, again, it's not no reason.
A lot of people agree with this decision.
I think there's safety to it.
There's still shield agents on board all the Herak helicarriers.
So it's dangerous.
The thing is that they plan to kill millions of people has been neutralized.
Yeah.
So I mean, like the what's Sam Jackson's character's name again?
You just said it Nick Fury, Nick Fury.
I mean, like if if let's say they wanted to have some sort of system in place where
there was a first in command and then people would be held accountable for their actions
if they went against the orders of Nick Fury, then that would make a lot more sense than
what I remember in the movie being as any time you want to be able to save the world,
you have to get like several nations to pause, pause, pause, pause.
We're going to get we're getting there like that's the issue that I had right
climbing up the staircase.
So the current system was the shield took care of them and Fury answered to the the big council
of the World Council.
And Ross actually says that that was their setup, but they can't let that be the setup
anymore.
And this is what what prompts this is Age of Ultron, where Iron Man essentially nearly
destroys the entire world himself.
There is no saving the world aspect as he caused Ultron and then it gets punctuated
by the beginning of Civil War, where I say Scarlet Witch makes that Age of Ultron is
my favorite bit of development for turning start.
Yeah, I think I felt like it was dropped.
I felt like it was it wasn't much.
It was dropped.
OK, OK, so I really hate to do this because I have to bring up the original comic books.
OK, well, we pause that pause that because I'm on a I'm getting there.
So I'll put that to sidebar.
So with with Scarlet Witch makes a decision to instead of blowing up a bunch of people
on the ground floor, she blows up a bunch of people in an upper floor.
She's made essentially a decision to kill a bunch of people to save a bunch of people.
And how come she gets to make that decision?
That's really that's this has to stop.
There has to be accountability.
If a police officer, I mean, it all comes back down to the that famous psychological
train experiment or whatever that.
Well, but we're dealing with five on each side of the track at that point.
She chose to save Captain America because of course she did.
It's it's it's an inevitability when you have this universe where people have superpowers.
Honestly, man, like with Civil War, I was so fucking glad they finally made that movie
because I was like, how is how is nobody picking up on this with world governments?
This is insane.
Like the Avengers get away with so much shit.
And you might be like, they're saving the universe.
Like, I don't care if they're saving the universe when they get in this many people killed.
Like how reckless do you have to be if you're saving a bus full of children from a terrorist
inside it and you come in firing your machine gun, you shoot him in the head and kill him.
You accidentally killed 10 children as well.
You're like, well, you know, I saved the bus.
It's it's you.
There has to be accountability.
And that's what Ross is talking about.
He keeps sure there's actually spots on the map from other places that they could
reference throughout the movies.
And if you if you give him a good old watch with a careful eye, you're like, holy shit,
there's some stuff they're doing in here that's really fucked.
And obviously, they understand they get it.
And so it's not you cannot save the world without our approval.
If Thanos arrives with an enormous army and they're right outside of Avengers HQ,
which happens in Endgame, they're not going to wait for a fax from from the U.N.
You say that, but did they did?
Was that not the point of like, was that not the main conflict?
No.
Iron Man literally cancels out the portion of the government's influence whenever he
actually wants to.
He's just doing it to appease them in the film, which is the position I actually agree with.
Okay.
Appease the government's.
But if something happens, then you cannot wait for approval.
Following along.
Oh, absolutely.
Do the same thing anyway.
Not the same thing.
Say, for example, there is like a Obadiah Stane type character in like an African
country who's killing a bunch of people with a giant robot suit.
Yeah, they might need to get some jurisdiction issues sorted before they go in and blow
everything up.
But if we're dealing with an alien that's about to blow up the Earth and he's just
arrives, like go for it, guys.
Fuck the U.N. will get over it.
It's just a pragmatic approach.
We can't have the Hulk jumping on people every once in a while.
We need to actually have someone because again, that's the whole point of the film.
All these families that get affected.
They got no one to account.
That's the point of the villain.
He's got no one to go to.
His wife, his kid, and his dad all died thanks to Tony Stark's.
Well, PTSD infused issues of trying to protect the world.
He's got no one to account.
My issue would be with the idea of if they actually did what it was on paper instead of
treating it like a case by case basis.
Well, I assume that's the point.
I take an issue with the perspective in the film, not necessarily the film itself addressing it.
Do you like being Ross's perspective specifically?
Because obviously Cap doesn't agree with that.
Iron Man's perspective in the film.
And if you I mean, like, perhaps, I don't know, was there a point where he literally said,
like, in the first half of the movie that he's just doing it to appease them, but he'll still,
he'll still, you know,
he said we need to be put in check, but the people on his side say it's good to have one
hand on the wheel.
And then by the end of the film, he literally lies to Ross in order to help Winter Soldier.
The end of the movie.
Yeah, sure.
That's just Iron Man's position.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know, like, all of us here, if you guys said you'd rather be vigilantes,
I'd be like, just agree with them, guys.
Like, it's we'll be vigilantes eventually.
Sure.
But for now, just say yes.
And until something horrible happens that we have to go deal with and they punish us for that,
so be it.
But for now, we can just say, yeah, sure.
We'll do whatever you want.
Sure.
Yeah, I agree with that perspective.
I think that that makes sense.
Oh, movies, a civil war on a misunderstanding.
Yeah, misunderstanding of what cap is principled.
The reason why you won't agree to this is because it's it's lying.
OK, so he just disagrees with Iron Man.
Why I'd say he disagrees with the entire premise that a government system could have any control
over a group of powerful people because of his experiences with SHIELD.
Not to stop and he doesn't want to.
Yeah, I mean, that that Iron Man tries to tell them several times.
It's just the pragmatic approach.
It's not like they're actually handing over the keys to the Avengers powers, but that's how cap
sees it even says it's like a that's where it'll lead.
That's where it'll lead.
And he sees the Scarlet Witch being trapped in the compound.
It's just a step toward that.
It's just control, control, control.
The way nobody can control Scarlet Witch.
Let's be really.
This is the same.
I don't know.
Sniper could kill her.
You gotta be careful.
Yeah, she can get shot and die.
Scarlet Witch, Scarlet Witch.
OK, I hate that people are now going like comics for comics for comics.
But even within the MCU, Scarlet Witch can affect reality.
She is a reality.
I don't exactly know where her powers fall in the MCU, but in the comics, and I'm guessing
that that's what they base it on.
She is a reality worker, which means that what she does in the comics, for example,
is it shows one day snap no more mutants and there are no more mutants.
That that's M day and that stuff all can happen.
So you with people who are Omega level power like that, you can't really lock them up
and put them in a shield facility.
Particularly when we know how shield is often infiltrated or corrupted,
which would go back to Winter Soldier.
That's not her power in MCU.
She does not.
She just can't snap her fingers and turn everybody normal.
Are we sure about that?
Because I'm not.
Only because that power didn't manifest at some point until later in this in the comic books.
But she's she's probability manipulation, I guess, more in the MCU.
They don't have specific.
Yeah, they're not very powerful.
If you were to ask me, I'd be like telekinesis slash mind control.
Yeah, I remember watching The Age of Ultron.
That's confusing.
And I would say, OK.
It's mine because a lot of the imagine if you had all these cosmic level powered characters
and you had to actually have a story with all the characters contributing evenly.
I mean, Captain America is the least powered out of all these characters besides Black Widow.
Maybe they have to keep up somehow.
So they have to do some flashy action.
And if you have a character like Scarlet Witch, who is apparently the most powerful character,
somehow you have to keep that like down.
So maybe she has a distance that her powers work at or something.
But if she has all these powers that we don't know about that are in the comic book,
you know, we can't tell where her powers are because it's not in the movie.
I don't know either because the movies aren't clear about what her powers are.
So either way, I guess, like what am I supposed to base it on?
Either way, Ross believes that they can.
I don't know.
All I'm saying is that I don't know.
And apparently nobody else does either.
Well, you don't know exactly what the extent of Scarlet Witch's powers are.
I mean, she's powerful enough to be in extreme danger if she became a villain.
Which is a good.
OK, which is a good point of the plot of Civil War.
That makes sense.
It makes sense because, yes, we know that she's got crazy stupid powers.
Yes, it should be tracked by the government.
But caps obvious concern with that is that, well, he sees it going into a fascistic direction.
That all makes sense.
That is honestly the movies do a better job of portraying the plot of Civil War than the comics
do. And that's true.
But I just don't see how that film ends up.
I guess I don't see how it ends up being significantly different than it was beforehand,
because that's the same problem the comics had as well to account for a bit of chat as well.
It says as much as I hate to say it at me, by the way, they're mad at both of us.
Don't worry. This is civil war has a civil war about it in discussion.
Trust me, as much as I say, but according to the accords, Mueller is wrong.
If you're referring to the fact that the accords will say they cannot do anything without first
the approval of the U.N., that's not what I'm actually arguing.
I'm arguing that in the case of a planet destroying threat, they're not going to wait
for the message from the U.N. whether or not the U.N. demand that they do.
However, the whole point of the U.N. taking control of the heroes is that when a family
gets murdered, they have to be like, wait, who's accountable for this?
Like the government, they sanctioned this.
This is a result of collateral damage. I'm sorry.
That's how it'll work instead of, well, I don't know.
Tony Stark figured that that was the best way to go about doing that.
And it's like, wow, you guys don't even have it on a leash.
And it's like, uh, the second one is hang on, is three, uh, all allying.
I don't think that's why cap disagrees.
100% cap disagrees with the idea of a governing body controlling the heroes in any way,
shape or form.
He thinks that it's in the power of the individually trust people.
He doesn't trust organizations and says that verbatim.
Third one is I disagree with your premise.
Tony outright says that he wants the accords to control him personally.
Nope.
He says that he wants accountability.
He wants them to be put in check.
He he thinks morally that the Avengers do have a responsibility.
The problem is he more so than anyone else would feel that way because of age of Ultron.
And he's not taking into account the fact that not everybody is as reckless as he is,
but he he feels guilty.
It's consuming the shit out of him in that movie.
Can I talk really quickly about age of Ultron and my issue there with Tony Stark.
So Tony Stark's character is replacing, um, Hank Pym in terms of who created Ultron in
that situation.
But I never really got because what what is so powerful in the original Ultron storyline
is that Hank Pym feels like an Ultron in response is it's a father son relationship.
And I just didn't get that out of age of Ultron.
And you could disagree with me on that to be.
I don't think it's supposed to be a father son relationship, but it is.
It is in the comics.
And again, I'm sorry, but we're going through comics, comics, but something that I thought
was missing in that storyline is for Tony to truly feel like he created this.
It was his son because in terms of why, okay, why Hank Pym created Ultron again,
I'm not saying things have to be a one to one recreation.
But what I'm saying is what was powerful about that original storyline.
Okay, I'm not saying it needs to be a one to one recreation.
I'm saying what was powerful about that original storyline is that Hank Pym created Ultron to
protect the Avengers and to do their job while they couldn't do it because they're actual people.
He created this robot and a lot of that is reflected in Age of Ultron.
Tony is doing his best, but the father-son dynamic was missing.
And it's something that I really wanted out of Age of Ultron.
I don't care if it's Hank Pym or Tony Stark.
I wanted that father-son dynamic that I thought was really missing in that film
because it would have been something that would have given us more to Tony,
particularly as somebody who is involved in this relationship with Pepper Potts
but doesn't have any trouble of his own.
That's something that would have I think really elevated Tony's storyline.
