It's telling me whether or not the broadcast is working, uh, during people in chat saying things.
It's like, I'm gonna assume it's working at that point. Maybe I'm wrong. Who knows?
Who knows what shenanigans YouTube will play? Exactly.
All right, now I've just gotta find the relevant video and then snatch a chat link from it because
it doesn't provide me them anymore. What? Yep. Like, I gotta go to the individual video and get
chat from there instead of having it beforehand. Not annoying at all. Nope. People are saying late
man bad. I did what I could. You know, 30 minutes isn't a lot to do all of the tisms. You can do
some tisms, I agree. But what if it was? Uh, that's a will I don't want to be a part of. I'm sorry.
I don't know how I feel about that. Well, how do you feel about a will that doesn't have feelings?
I'm sorry, what? I don't know how much I can feel about a world that doesn't have feelings.
Well, or it doesn't have rules. What if you're talking about how you feel about this will before
entering it so you would still have the feelings? I had a feeling once. How'd it go?
Oh, that's kind of shit. That's why I swore off feelings. And then I took a vow that nobody else
could feel things or have opinions. It went well. All right, everything should be fine.
I'm getting faster at correcting all YouTube's speed bumps.
That's the previous ones unlisted. This one's the only one that's around.
And we're live. Thumbnail's correct. Chat is working. Everything, literally every last thing
is perfect. We did it. Excellent. All right. So if you're all still in the watch together,
we were we were about to carry on with watching a bit of Tonal Bloke.
He has graced us with a return. He disappeared for a bit, had himself a break. And that's fine.
We all have breaks, you know, but ultimately, Tonal can't leave the internet forever. He is
the inspiration for hundreds, if not thousands, if not millions, millions, billions. We're going
all the way back to the reason EFAP was created. Exactly. TLJ and Tonal. Those are the two things
that made in heaven. So yeah, you guys ready to watch some Tonal? I'm very ready. I was born ready.
Exciting stuff. Here we go. And naked. Oh my.
After EA's less than stellar treatment of the Star Wars franchise lately, I had more or less
expected Fallen Order to land somewhere in the ballpark of painfully average to a bucket of
deep fried crap. For me, Star Wars has actually been going downhill for years. Jar Jar Binks,
the laughably fake CGI, midichlorians, hem, and culminating with the unholy apocalypse that is
the last Jedi. Man's got some opinions. Man's got some opinions. TLJ's the unholy apocalypse,
fellas. Well, yeah, if we'll have Tonal understood themes and characters, then...
I can't believe that Tonal actually has the cognitive functionality to be able to say that
TLJ is bad, but the last guy that we just watched can't come to that same conclusion.
Oh, it's Tonal's fault. How much? How smart do you have to be? I severely underestimated how
intelligent Tonal actually is. You gotta remember, the guy in the other video said you gotta be smart
to be able to have seen this stuff, right? Tonal is smart. So I'm not like he bases his
smartness as a quality. He is what it is to be smart. He is. Yeah, he's smartness.
You gotta be smart to understand TLJ is what the guy's point was, right? You gotta,
he said something like you gotta pay attention and you gotta like all these different things. So,
you know, Tonal is just like us. He just, you cognitively failed TLJ to come to this conclusion,
but that's fine with me. Oh my. We're in this group. We'll stick together with Tonal leading
us through the darkness. Good Star Wars and bad. And on the gaming side, EA has more or less
condemned Star Wars as well to a life of mediocrity with the failed MMO, the mass market
cash cow battlefronts, and the kitty games on mobile. Next on the chopping block is Fallen
Order. And to my surprise, and thankfully EA finally did what any sane publisher would do with
the competent. He's like the way he speaks to my surprise. And thankfully the prize and thankfully
EA finally did what any sane publisher would do with a competent developer partner. Stay out of
their way. Fallen Order is the first piece of Star Wars media I've consumed in 10 years that
I've been fully satisfied with, with the exception of Rogue One on film. In a year, at least mildly
replete with good games, it stands atop most of them actually with fantastic art design, a well
paced and fun story. What does replete mean? I don't know. I'm about to take a little look-see.
Tonal's using words, or well supplied with something. So, mildly supplied with good games.
All right, Tonal. You guys, you know, you meme about how, oh, it doesn't make sense, some words
he uses. Well, sometimes he teaches us shit, okay? I was just being certain. I didn't know if
replete meant like it had to be like full. So it was like a way of saying half full.
Someone in the chat asked what MMO he was referencing. I think he was talking about
The Old Republic. Although that wasn't an EA game. He might have fucked up and said it was,
but it still did fail as far as I'm aware. You failed. To them actually with fantastic
art design, a well paced and fun story, and solid game mechanics. If you want to be a nitpicky,
you can definitely find some flaws. The game's cosmetic system. 21 different ponchos. I mean,
come on. Some issues with the camera and hitboxes. Not enough bosses. Nor complex boss mechanics.
A few bugs and glitches. And of course, the game's... I wouldn't say the bosses, just the bosses
fucking suck. And a full on game review here. This is weird because the video is called Woke
Star Wars. I'm not 100% clear on what he's referencing yet, but I'm excited. I guess we'll
find out. Lead up to the finale. However, they nailed the rest of it. Fallen Order is an extremely
fun action adventure game that you can pick up and beat in 15 hours without the need to repeat it as
an all inclusive package. Under the heavy hand of modern corporate and game design, that might
not be a worthy proposition for a gamer who wants an all-you-can-eat buffet in every single game he
or she owns. However, for those who like our game experiences concise and punchy, Fallen Order fits
the bill nicely. In replace of arbitrary bitch work, grinding, checklists, or fluff, you instead
have a linear set path with one quest to complete to arrive at the end of the game. Cal's Adventure
is the classic race. Can you pause it? We're almost two minutes into this video and I'm like
not able to pick it apart. Yeah, he's so far pretty sound. It's like actually kind of solid.
Makes sense so far. I disagree with a couple of his takes, but not like huge disagreements.
Yeah. Wow. This is bizarre. He's coming a long way. He did it.
The sacred item against an evil bad dude, or chick in this case, that wants to kill you and rule the
galaxy. At no point in the journey does the game ever move backwards or sideways and the conflict
always jumps forward from point A to point B in a very timely manner. Character threads are mostly
fleshed out, Cal's character arc feels natural, and the motives make sense. This is a game that
plays like a video game but acts like a movie. Introduction and setup, sudden conflict, rising
action, defeatism, struggle, and defeatism. I don't even know if you could refer to it that way.
Could that... Well, defeatism. Let's have a look.
Apparently it exists. The acceptance of defeat without struggle.
I don't know if that's applicable because I haven't played the campaign yet.
I don't think it's quite applicable. I'd say defeat is, but I think he's just trying to make
it sound a little better, but it's not tonal. Rising action, defeatism, struggle, and resolution.
All in 15 hours of straight to the point, no BS gameplay. Gotta admit, this is a pretty goddamn
nice breath fresh air, and to be assumed mostly independence of EA's influence. Pretty nice breath
fresh air. Did he don't even skip the all? This is a pretty goddamn nice breath fresh air, and to be
assumed mostly independence... Rewind that and slow hold it. Okay. I don't have to gedelb that shit too.
Gedelb. Gedurlb. Gedurb. Yes, gameplay. Gotta admit, this is a pretty goddamn nice breath
fresh air, and to be assumed mostly independence of EA's influence as a publisher.
Influence. Somebody else said this, didn't they? I could have sworn.
Influence. Influence.
Influence. It's influence. Accenting the wrong syllable. Pretty nice breath fresh air.
It's a level.
Traditionally, they've toyed with developers like puppets, prodding them with a barbed whip
at every corner, condemning them to create games in a vacuum of what's best for the bottom line.
Here, free from subjugation, Respawn was able to make the game they wanted to make without
all the BS that comes with the madness of modern gaming propaganda. Holy shit.
That's a classic toy. Can we just rewind that again?
Without all the BS that comes with the madness of modern gaming propaganda,
holy shit. A game developer sets out, makes a game they want to, and it's good. Shocking.
Overall, the game is small in scale, but it packs a punch. Trilla as the villain
is completely badass, not to mention hot ass.
That just makes it sound like he's saying his literal
name. She's pissed, and her hateful presence enfoils the tale nicely in a sense of urgency,
which makes Cal's mission feel pressing, which led me to want to keep playing and see where it was
going. Boss battles could have done with a little bit more mechanical depth though.
Not only is there not enough fights in my opinion, but the showdowns here
feel slightly run in the mill. Run in the mill. I actually agree with the sentiment though,
I haven't really disagreed with too much of this video. Lies, obviously lies.
If you've played a Souls game, get ready to feel right at home. Roll out of the way of the overhead
attack, block the three hit swiping combo, dodge the unlockable, dodge the three hit swiping combo
I think. Yeah, you made sense. Souls game, get ready to feel right at home. Roll out of the way
of the overhead attack, block the three hit swiping combo, dodge the unlockable, punish.
If not for the awesome spectacle of fighting in a rainstorm or atop a thousand foot tree in the
movie of Avatar, the bosses would otherwise have been just go. Yeah, I guess he's saying it looks
kind of like Pandora, I guess. I will say it looks more like Pandora than it looks like Kashyyyk.
It's like a really fucking overly generic forest level. Doesn't really scream Star Wars at all,
which is weird because you'd think Kashyyyk would be really easy to make look like Kashyyyk is
supposed to look, I guess. Just looks like a really boring forest for the most part.
It's okay. Still fun though. That's because combat is fun in fallen order across. It's still fun though,
and that's because all those combat is fun. Who could argue with that? Cow's lightsaber feels
weighty yet fluid, which sinks up nicely. I said weighty yet fluid, I think.
It was numerous options for character movement and environmental manipulation, dodge, roll,
parry, force powers, and healing. Unlike the obvious influence of Dark Souls, the need to
constantly roll around like a damn chimpanzee is not necessary. Cow can pull enemies to him,
push him away, slow down time. You know, the only issue I'm having here is
all understand the title. Yeah, I don't understand the title, but this is unironically one of the
best videos we've covered on efap. Yeah, it's so weird. Like remember when he was showing those
clips from like movies and shit? They actually like made sense in the context with what he was
saying, whereas usually that doesn't happen. Man, what can we say? Yeah. Did he actually make a good
video? Dodge, parry, whatever he wants, as previously mentioned, as a result, combat has this
warm flowy feel to it. That ends up being one of the games warm flowy. I didn't get that warm creamy
feel. I didn't. I don't really like the combat in the game. I mean, he's clearly in love. I don't
really mind the combat. I have issues with the enemy design and the enemy placement.
And I cannot get over the fact that the scout troopers are the melee ones. It doesn't make
sense. That is a little odd. One wouldn't expect that. That's for sure. Strongest areas. The other
area that was really well done was the level design and platforming. Taking some influence
from uncharted and Tomb Raider, Fallen Order is filled to the brim with simple platforming
challenges and puzzles that connect map routes together. These platforming elements come in a
form of sliding, jumping, roping, wall running, and climbing. Certain elements require special
items, which limit Cal's exploration capabilities initially, yet he can come back to them later
once acquiring the tools. It's a recipe that calls for a heavy dash of dark souls.
A glug of Prince of Persia. What does that mean? It's a glug. It's more than a sip.
Okay, I understand him perfectly. It was a dish of a Sunday brunch should be the humble fruit salad.
Normally, we don't get many hodgepodge titles because it's difficult to find the right symmetry
among different game ideas. For the amateur developer achieving equally, I was enjoying so
much, but if you wish, Librium is a disaster waiting to happen. For Fallen Order, there are
so many avenues for potential peppery that it boggles the mind. What was that? I guess we had
a slow note. Potential fuckery was it? Okay, back to slow note. Giving equilibrium is a disaster
waiting to happen. For Fallen Order, there are so many avenues for potential peppery that it boggles
potential peppery. That's what it sounds like. Poppery? I'm pretty sure he meant to say fuckery
and he's blocked it out. It just sounds like fucking poppery. I don't know. The news for potential
peppery that it boggles the mind in this regard. Too much combat, too many climbing sections,
fiddly controls, annoying levels that wrap around way too much, yada yada yada, I can go on for days.
Simply throwing everything into a witch's cauldron and praying it turns out. What a strange
reference, but alright. As opposed to another cauldron, but alright. You can get wizard cauldrons,
they're very different operating on this. You like to have the cauldron of a wizard?
On way too much. Yada yada yada, I can go on for days. Simply throwing everything into a witch's
cauldron and praying it turns out greats is not going to get the job done in most cases, let alone
make a fantastic game. It takes a deft hand to create balance and tie those elements together,
and they achieve that with Fallen Order. If they want to build upon this game and make another,
surely giving the player control of the starship would be the first order of business.
Fallen Order provides no space exploration or combat, no stealth, no player choice in the story,
and no role-playing elements outside the skill tree, which is limiting in itself. Perhaps these
are the things that they could consider for their next iteration, although I'd be perfectly fine if
they didn't. That's because this game is good on its own and you can't find many games like Fallen
Order. It's both a high quality linear action game and an amalgamation of not just some of the best
industry game ideas, but with excellent pacing and mixed in the proper proportions.
It was really bad about it in the past where it would just be him cycling through a menu and then
randomly cut to him walking down a hall. He is improved. Like, I don't know what else to say,
like this is, you know, we're near the end. Wow. It's like he watched us and actually took
the criticism to heart. Yeah. Tonal, this is unironically a pretty good video. I don't agree
with everything he said, but this is genuinely good. This is up there, man. Not bad. And an
amalgamation of not just some of the best industry game ideas, but with excellent pacing and mixed
in the proper proportions. You see that sentence? It's very confusing. Properly. Yeah. It's an
excellent game with mixed, you know, it's an odd with mixed in proper proportion of the game and
an amalgamation of not just some of the best industry game ideas, but with excellent pacing
and mixed in the proper proportions. A feat surely much harder than it sounds.
Fallen Order is not original. It's not innovative. It's a consolidation of industry standard game
design with the amazing visual world of Star Wars and Respawn's well-known wall running mechanic.
Nothing more and nothing less. Sounds about right. Okay. Yeah, that's pretty much 100% accurate.
If you've ever tried to whip up a fancy recipe for dinner, the easiest part is to go to the
store and buy the ingredients. The hard part is bringing them together correctly so that the dish
is harmonious in the end. Fallen Order takes components and creates symmetry. It's not a
perfect game, but it's as good as any game I've played this year. And it doesn't try to be
anything it isn't while doing it. It's not ashamed of what it is or where those ideas came from.
It is a game that woke Star Wars from the brink of death on the gaming front and
oh, this. Oh, oh, he used Woken. Correct. Woken Woken. Yeah.
Oh, that's definitely not what I. Yeah, I wouldn't title the star video that way.
Not when the connotation with Woken Star Wars is pretty obvious.
I mean, the title doesn't make any sense. And I understand what he was going for,
but it really shouldn't. He shouldn't have titled it that way. But otherwise,
this is pretty strong video. Yeah, the amount of time he spends. I'm blown away.
The developers at Respawn should be extremely proud of the game they created.
It proves that whoever is funding the creation of anything Star Wars really needs to separate
themselves from the actual creation. This will probably reduce the chance that games or movies
get made with a hard on for the bottom line and nothing else. The highest quality products are
produced when a hands-off policy is promoted between teams, which gave me more power to.
No, I agree. He didn't use the fart sound. No, he didn't use the he said
or something like that. Like he cut himself out almost.
Like five minutes. Why didn't he just do that? I missed the phone.
I need the phone to know that this is this is this is an adult.
How am I supposed to know that it's a potty word? Mm hmm.
No, a thing or two about making a good game or movie to make something people actually want.
Maybe we can take this lesson learned and carry it through to build a brighter future of Star Wars
media. Oh my God. Oh, what can we say? If that began to shit on tonal a year later,
he's actually put out a good video. Oh, my God. What the fuck?
Well, our child, I'm so proud of you. Our boys grown up. Mm hmm.
He's become like genuine man. Make more of this. I would actually subscribe to you unironically.
Oh, my God. He's become everything and more. You think it's like loads of time.
Well, do you think that he's just really passionate about this game and so
thus passionate about the video? Maybe maybe that might be the case.
Someone in the chat said that maybe tonal is so apolitical.
He doesn't actually know what wokeness is. Oh, God, you might be correct.
Look at those claps in chat. Look at that. Very good tonal.
Congratulations. We're proud of you.
Everyone go give this video a like and like say we want more of this.
Yeah, it's a pretty good review. That was that was good. Take it home, buddy.
Tonal, you just offered us the best video we've ever watched in the history of eFap.
That might actually be true. It might actually. I'd have to look.
This is the day the Lord has made. Oh, wow.
That brings us into the nicely into video memes, ones that are free from copyright.
And here we used to think that tonals would be like a video meme, but it wasn't.
It was. It was insane.
It was a real. He's redeemed himself.
Yeah, so there's there's a lot of video memes that are copyright minefields,
and I have kept them all into this big folder. We are going to record something offline,
looking at them, and then I will re-upload that as a eFap mini,
just like, you know, meme mini or whatever, after I fiddle with it in Vegas to get it
copyright friendly. Give me a lot of things I'll just do to it. So if your preferred video
doesn't show up, don't panic. It's just because it's probably copyrightisms.
Even everyone's clapping and someone sent in a super chat saying that he didn't even ask for
the claps. That's how you know he's done something right. He didn't he didn't pull a jab on us.
So, wow.
So many to choose.
Guess we could start with back on the meme stream, we covered a guy called
Capital Opinions. Do you remember that man? He he made the NPC review.
Uh, yeah.
So he's got a video called film criticism when everything is subjective.
But we've checked this out. Yeah, let's take a look.
Hello, friend. Hello. What did you think of the new Joker film? I really liked it.
What did you think of it? I really disliked it.
I respect your opinion. I respect your opinion.
That's pretty funny.
I love the pause. Yeah, like they don't know what happens next.
So we watched NPC reviews one. He has NPC reviews number two.
Oh, my goodness. This is called that film you like is actually dangerous. And here's why.
Oh, my goodness. So quick disclaimer. Remember, this is just my opinion and you're not allowed
to criticize me. Okay.
I didn't want to have to make this video, but someone has to put everyone in their place.
And I guess it's gonna have to be me.
You know the one. I'm not going to mention it by name because I don't want to give such a dangerous
film free publicity, but this movie might just be the most socially irresponsible piece of media
to be released for this year. And this current social and political climate with far right
extremism on the rise with a literal white supremacist in the White House with incels
and gamers going around shooting people and saying things I disagree with on the internet.
The fact that they made a movie that humanizes a white male protagonist is absolutely appalling.
Not only that, the movie actually tries to get audiences to sympathize with an incel
loner who commits acts of far right terrorism. Now, I haven't actually seen the movie because I don't
want to subject. But nonetheless, I think it's important to talk about. Now, some idiots have
actually fallen for the idea put forth by the main character himself that this movie and this
main character aren't political. Yeah, right, as if it's even possible to be apolitical. You see,
this movie is just one of many movies released in recent years that tries to trick audiences by
claiming to be apolitical. But in reality, it just supports the status quo. Like Paddington 2.
The colonial experience. This movie even has the audacity to have the veneer of leftist class
politics over it to make you think the movie has something meaningful and deep to say. Spoiler alert,
it doesn't. Speaking of the supposedly apolitical nature of the movie, the director of this film
has been going around saying this movie is a response to the woke crowd and the mythical
cancel culture we're allegedly living in. Which should tell you everything you need to know,
really. Well, no one thinks my offensive jokes are funny. Well, if you can't think of jokes that don't
cause literal pain and violence towards marginalized people, then maybe you should study
quantum mechanics, build a time machine, and go back to Nazi Germany where you belong. Anyway,
all the great lengths this film goes through to portray the cisgendered straight white male
protagonist as a victim. The real victims of this movie are the actresses of color that the film
uses like props. Side note, if I were to suggest a rewrite to help fix this movie, I would make
Sassy Beats the main character instead of Joaquin Phoenix. And instead of being a single mom, she'd
be a badass crime fighter. And instead of it being anything like it currently is, it'd make it
completely different. It's a small change, but it would make it all different. It's a small change.
Ah, but alas, that's not the movie we got. What we did get is a movie that clearly hates women.
And what's most frightening is all the ignorant and easily manipulatable audience members who
won't see the racist and misogynistic themes of this movie and will internalize the ideology
without any critical thought. Thankfully, I'm here to save you all for yourselves and help you save
the correct thoughts and see the world properly. You're welcome. And as if all that wasn't bad
enough, the film is just a blatant derivative ripoff of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver,
which is a much better film. Wait a minute. If the movie is problematic and it's a ripoff,
maybe it's because Taxi Driver has deep themes and this movie is shallow and thinks it's smarter
than it is. Yeah, yeah, that's it. This movie isn't nearly as smart as it thinks it is. And
it has absolutely nothing deep to say about anything. All in all, this movie is just bad.
It's dangerous and irresponsible to make a movie like this on current year. And I think there's
still a very high likelihood that this movie will be directly responsible for violence.
In fact, I'm really hoping it will be because I would really validate my worldview. Anyway,
that's all I have for you today. Thanks for watching. If you like this video, don't forget
to like, subscribe, ring the bell and give me all your money. If you take anything away from this
video, let it be this. The next time you think about going to see a film directed by, written by,
or starring a white guy, just go support the films of marginalized filmmakers instead.
Anyway, thanks for watching everyone. And always remember,
everything is objectively subjective so you're not allowed to criticize me.
Pretty great content, huh? That's good. I like that.
Capital Opinions. Yeah, I was gonna say. I like it.
We'll post his channel in the chat in a moment. But yes, Capital Opinions, you can find him.
He's made two of those now. We covered him last time on the meme stream that we did.
Hopefully, this one doesn't go down with copyright at some point. So that it will be
delayed as hell before we actually get to promote him again. But buddy stuff. I have a feeling that
he's aware of the podcast. We like your videos. They amuse us. They are very good. I think they
are fantastic. You did a good job. So many great quotes. Most of them are real. So it just makes
it that much better. I like how blood the video is. If everything is subjective,
this is how a movie conversation goes. Yep, pretty much.
All right, so I've set this one. I'm not 100% sure of what I'm dealing with.
Oh, boy. Neither do we. So don't worry. A mod of some kind.
That's the big, true, true.
Fuck you, Derek.
That's it? Like, I don't have any more for that.
Can you replay that? Yeah. Yeah, sure.
Is that a pizza wall?
Oh, fuck you, Derek.
Got to be a woman.
Yeah, I know. That's it. I don't know.
Who's Derek? What's the what's the context behind that?
Right. Who's Derek?
Oh, I forget. Oh, my goodness.
I forget about all all that such vitriol.
I know. I must have really hated. He must have really been a piece of shit.
In fairness, he's Derek. Yeah.
Typical. This is typical. Fucking Derek.
All right. Ready for the next one?
I'm very ready for the next one.
I love this one. Fads of Baguettias.
The Freudian and pupil Baguettias are the first in history to engage in debate on the trap questions.
Dearest pupil, I beseech thee to abandon these explorations unto massively.
The gods erected boykind to please girlkind, not thine tireless phallus.
Considered this honored mentor.
If it were a lad of most effete beauty and the room were dark,
would it truly be queenly to mount him in ignorance?
Imagine, if you will, the shadow of a youth cast on a wall in silhouette.
They're growing as yet obscure.
As stimulating as I find such theoretical, the ancient wisdom remains unchanged.
If the balls do not come in contact, as a man partaken in the big gay.
But my master, are you not in an effable champion of the subjective naturity of existence?
If all about us is but a mirage of our senses, then surely the big gay too is up to interpretation.
A world of our senses is surely subjective. Never doubt that, fair Baguettias.
But within the framework of what our eyes and pains do tell us,
your summertime fling had a manhood beneath her stola.
You ought to confess to your wife, O Pupil.
Leave big titties out of this.
It's actually too wonderfully written.
That was great.
Yeah, there's two big videos of that exchange.
We'll have to.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah, that was a good one.
That was great.
Whoever wrote that.
Hard to keep the names together.
But that was that was one I'll remember.
That was quite a quick, funny one.
There was a good comment in the chat.
Brooks isn't a debater.
And that's what I've always said.
I've never said I was a debater.
I don't do debates.
I don't even do very many live streams on my channel.
I just do this for fun.
And yeah, if I'm a bad debater, so be it.
I don't give a shit.
Debates are gay.
Debates are gay.
I love the visual representation of debates
and him breaking his own neck.
Yeah, mauler debates are gay.
Debates are gay, yo.
All right.
Such a sweet, such a sweet lad.
This one's pretty legendary.
How many medias are there now?
Too many?
Yes.
One is too many.
That turned out pretty well.
But it's also less than a month.
Should we do a Medea movie for our little side project?
Yeah, boy.
Oh, yeah, we could do it.
Marvel is released.
Medea gets an abortion.
It doesn't seem like great schedule.
It could be.
I don't fucking know.
I've never watched one of those.
You have to ask, which is that?
Well, well, that's a thing is like...
Medea goes to Wakanda.
That wouldn't be a far-fetched conclusion.
Medea joins the KKK.
Medea joins Thanos.
Medea.
Medea invades Iraq.
Oh, it's the passion of the Medea.
Safe private Medea.
Medea revolution.
Days of Usher Medea.
The once and future Medea.
Medea 2099.
The thumbnail has the movie novel doesn't want.
Medea, ready, Medea one.
The scent of Medea.
The Medea-ing.
Medea invades Iraq.
Chronicles of Medea.
Medea, but with women.
The last Medea.
Scott Medea, Micah Pono.
Avatar.
The last Medea.
Revenge of the infinity Medea.
Children.
Children of Medea.
Pacific Medea.
Mass Effect.
Andromeda.
The shape of Medea.
The Medea purple.
Jurassic Medea.
The Medea Stone.
The Mediatrix.
Fu Medea 3.
Black Medea.
Wrinkle in Medea.
Oh no.
I still can't get over these Medea names.
Medea battle angel.
Black Medea down.
Clockwork Medea.
Medea's Bizarre Adventure.
Guardians of the Medea.
3 tend of Medea.
The Dark Medea Rises.
Medea Skull Island.
Grand Theft of Medea.
Medea.
Medea's.
Medea 3.
Medea resurrection.
Medea covenant.
What would it wouldn't?
What would Promatheus do?
Promedea.
Surprisingly.
Promedea Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
Medea.
That's so much better.
It's picturing like the dude's body with like her head,
but like still muscular blue.
But she's like, you know how Han Solo says that Indiana Jones
is like a well of content.
There's so much you can do with the character.
There is nothing that compares to Medea.
You can put Medea in anything.
And it will be just as terrible as the last one.
Yeah, they put a lot of effort to make it.
It's like going to visualize the Medea films is important.
I love that Billy the fridge was just sitting there silently.
You don't get it.
You don't get it.
Oh, don't.
Sexual arrest.
Okay.
Um.
Sexual arrestemento.
This is good, right?
In Maller's video, Captain Marvel and Unburdled Man at Timecode 2014,
we see a clip of Jeff Bush.
Now I know what you're thinking.
What did you bring me?
But wait, came out on April 18th, 2019,
and the f-app stream that manufactured
the Jeb Bush meme was on November 3rd, 2019.
That's exactly 200 days apart.
Why is this?
Is Mueller a plant from the Illuminati and or the Bush family
to help set up the new world order?
Love that frigging what's in that trailer.
Really move sugar with his mind?
Who can we ask that would know?
The pig from the Walmart commercial.
That thing's thick.
Hey, he's just dropping his money everywhere.
No, Big Giddy is.
Well, that's all the time I have for this video.
Higher Agas and Long Man Mueller.
Hello.
Hey!
Good, uh, good conspiracy theory.
Not gonna confirm or deny.
So, um, this, uh, I'm not even gonna tell you
why this was created specifically.
I hope you'll just know.
Oh, is it another one?
It's a short one.
Jay.
No.
Jay, what do you want?
I'll get, give me some.
What?
Oh my god.
That's fucking horrifying.
It's the droid to kill movie ball.
That's terrifying.
That's disturbing.
Why though?
Oh my god.
You can make memes.
That doesn't mean you should.
No.
Oh, what a terrifying creature.
I thought that was like a chicken or a turkey
like rolling down the hall and then it unfolds.
It was terrifying.
I agree.
That really is terrifying.
Oh my goodness.
Gotta love that we did the force sprint thing too.
The force super speed and we were talking about that earlier.
It all comes up.
Oh my god.
Oh my god.
Remember that tune, ranks?
Oh my goodness.
What was the context of that?
That is a bat woman episode.
That woman.
They're all terrible.
So it's kind of hard to be like, oh, it's a bad one.
But yeah, this is the bad bat woman episode.
Not the good one.
This is the bad one.
Oh my god.
Can't say I have.
No, I don't.
I don't want to know with me.
What does it mean?
That's true.
A big.
Oh, it's Twitter.
Galaxy.
No research.
That's.
That's JW.
Everyone was trying to warn us.
Who do you think it was?
Like I was Twitter deleted.
I didn't know J had that kind of power.
Isn't it?
I hope it was funny.
I mean, I think I think there's some validity there.
I don't know.
I can't disprove it.
So it must be true.
The fucking tooth.
I was expecting it was going to be like, see, they have like
similar facial structure and that's like no teeth.
They do, though.
Clearly, they do.
I can't imagine like being a human and having this much hatred.
That's a good meme.
Oh, that's amazing.
That's a good meme.
Good rat right there.
All right.
More good rat on the way, you know.
That was some good.
I genuinely and ironically hope that Jar Jar is in it.
People say.
Yeah, man.
Like a bad thing.
I would love Jar Jar to turn up.
It would make me so happy.
It would it would genuinely make me happy.
By the way, we are 14 seconds away from finishing this video.
They cannot mistreat Jar Jar either.
If like someone kills Jar Jar.
I will be mad.
Yeah, if they created Jar Jar defenders,
if they brought Jar Jar into the narrative and had him die,
I would be upset.
And ironically, you just brought him here to kill him.
Jar Jar deserves.
He was just sitting somewhere.
Sitting in.
This is what the fans want, right?
An old Jar Jar living off his pension from the Senate.
Just relaxing in retirement.
And then, you know, episode nine knocks on his door.
And he's like, I can't.
That's really funny.
Sad reality.
Oh, that's fun.
It's the second time we've seen a meme that covers something
we talked about in the last stream.
Yeah.
Oh, this one I meant to play at a different point, I guess,
because it's like it's not a meme video.
It's a video that's kind of like that MPC review thing.
But it's also a good rant.
Jumping.
This is called Every Game Analysis Video Essay.
That's what this is called.
All right.
Enjoy.
Jumping is a core part of video games from Super Mario to Super Mario 3.
It allows the player to move upwards, forwards, upwards and forwards.
But what makes a jump feel good in new and exciting ways?
I'm Tom O'Regan.
This is Game Players University.
And let's jump into it.
Oh, my God.
It's perfect.
That sounds all right.
It's got all the amount of pretension that one of these videos could have.
It's a Bob Brown video, like through and through.
It's perfect.
The first game featured in the jump mechanic was 1988's Super Mario Bros 2,
directed by Kintsuki Tanabe.
Otherwise, it's easy to think of the Italian plumber as the grandfather of jumping.
The grandfather of jumping.
A little more complicated.
You see, while it released in the US and Europe as Super Mario 2,
the game is actually just a reskin of the Japanese title, Mega Man X.
And so it's actually the blue bomber we have to thank for the gift of ascension.
But how does this jumping work and what new opportunities did it allow for?
Let's jump into it.
Goes to black again.
The mechanic works like this.
The player that's you would press the B button to gain altitude or pair that with the left
or right buttons on the D-pad or directional pad to perform a lateral movement.
In retrospect, this might seem shockingly simple, but back in 1786,
the game was like, I've never seen anything like it.
So how did this simple yet revolutionary new idea change the gaming landscape as we know it?
Well, let's-
Shit that has nothing to do with anything.
Keep singing, let's jump into it.
Third fade.
Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung has a stronger influence psychologically on their environment
and especially on their children than the unlived life of the parent.
Now you might be wondering what this has to do with jumping in video games.
With jumping, developers all over the world are putting their own unique spin
on this brave new mechanic.
Now you can jump off walls, jump on your half, sometimes even jump, and then jump again.
What exciting new territory are these players in cover?
Aim for the bushes.
Hey, thanks for watching.
New Players University is funded in part by Patreon, where I earn $26,000 a month.
If you enjoyed it, please like and subscribe or even consider donating.
Leave a comment in the description letting me know your favorite film,
and check out my previous video on how level 1-1 teaches you how to play.
I like to think he may have seen Godelb, no idea, but that was wonderful.
That was perfect, I loved it.
That is from Tom O'Regan.
I will push him into the old stream chat in a moment, but I just love it.
I love these things because it's just like stripping away all of the pretentious garbage
that you get from those videos.
Because I just see through it, people.
It's so crap.
Let's jump.
I learned so much about jumping from that video.
I feel like a jumping expert.
Oh, more parody.
Shit, it's fun.
Oh, video essayists, what won't they do?
Good content.
All right, this is called do plant sneeze.
Do plant sneeze?
You don't know that?
Oh!
Copyright claims?
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Oh, okay.
We just said bullet.
Glad you're back, Wolf.
Played the last time I'll ever be on YouTube.
Well, at least you saw it.
Uh...
Oh, this one...
One we'll may amuse.
Wolf reacts to Game of Thrones.
Oh, my god.
And the fucking shitty thing is,
is the last two episodes were really good.
Me and Mauler were so happy.
We were like, fuck, it's good again.
It's really fucking good again.
And then this happened, and we were so happy for most of the episode,
and then the end happened, and it's like,
what the fuck did you do that for?
And to top it all off, that fucking ice dragon with the blue fire,
so it breathes the blue fire on the wall and blows it away.
It blows the blue fire on the wall and blows the fucking thing up.
But then, when Jon needs to hide behind a little fucking trap,
the ice dragon can't do shit.
Wolf, you have amazing insight thoughts on Iron Man 3, it's shit.
But not as shit as Game of Thrones season 8, episode 3.
Fuck that.
Damn it.
I fucking hate this show.
You may be all invested.
We wouldn't get hit with copyright for that song, right?
Because that's all over the games.
Like, let's play to be hit with copyright, right?
Um...
They might be, I don't know, that's the thing.
I don't...
Games are really weird.
And asking for consistency with a copyright is...
Eh...
I don't know how to say it.
I don't know if I can risk it, unfortunately.
It's gotta be covered because, like...
This is a game.
But...
Uh...
Oh wait, maybe it stops at some...
Fuck that episode.
It pisses me the goddamn hell off.
I mean, it's a pretty good risk to do,
because it's such a great soundtrack, you know?
Yeah.
There is no possible fucking way that they can redeem them.
Do you want to save that for the one we're gonna record?
Yeah, actually, that makes a lot of sense. We will save it.
Um...
Okay...
Eman Gameplay said that Mick Gordon doesn't copyright his tracks.
He's used them a bunch of times, apparently.
We're safe?
Oh, alright.
Alright.
Apparently.
Jesus.
The biggest fucking plot line of the entire series, useless.
Because the whole point of the White Walkers was to show that the Game of Thrones is petty and useless,
and that they should stop bickering over retarded shit like that,
and fucking come together to fight a threat bigger than them.
Well, now the threat that's bigger than them is fucking done.
And now they've gotta go back to arguing about dumb petty shit.
Well, if you're just mad George RR Martin is better than Tolkien.
Tolkien would rape him.
Tolkien...
The fucking ending hasn't even happened and it's already shit.
Blame Wolf? If this gets taken down, motherfucker, I'm going off of Wolf.
This is your fault, Wolf.
Your fault.
No, it's...
There's more than one of these.
Talking about pants.
Oh god, I remember this.
Yeah.
More importantly, the pacing and design of games themselves.
Games are so much snappier.
Where did she get that from?
It wasn't in her hand, is that gonna go?
Wait, what the...
Oh.
The syringe.
So much.
The syringe?
Yeah, the syringe that she pulled out and stabbed the character with.
Is that like an American thing? Isn't it syringe?
Sid, I've never heard it pronounced syringe.
It's syringe syringe.
It's kind of like when you were saying it's a scissors and everyone was like,
what are you talking about?
Look, that's not incorrect.
Well, no one says it that way though.
Yeah, well, it's not incorrect.
They need to get with the old times.
That's me, OG Rags.
Talking about scissors like the old days.
How did they pronounce scissors?
Scissors.
Scissors?
Yeah.
Well, it wasn't the contention that it was like...
But he said A scissors.
Okay, listen.
We can have this discussion again.
I don't fucking care.
The point is that if I take my pants and I cut them down the middle,
I don't have...
Do I have a pant and then another pant?
And I put together and they become pants?
Or do I have half pants?
You have two halves of a pair of pants.
You have two halves of a pair of pants.
So you have a pant?
That's why I got a pair of pants.
The pant is the leg, but they're connected at the top.
Isn't pants like short for...
So now if you have two pairs of pants,
you say I have a pair of a pair of pants.
So if you have two matching pants,
you can't say a pair of pants because that's just one...
No, you say you have two pairs of pants.
But what if they match and you want to signify that they match?
You say I have a pair of a pair of pants.
No, you have two matching pairs of pants.
Two pairs.
Yes.
Two matching pairs of pants.
Well, that's kind of redundant to say a matching pair.
Well, you just said you wanted to let people know that they're matching.
Oh, yeah.
So you say a pair.
No, you have two pairs of pairs of pants.
No, you say two matching pairs of pants.
Two matching pairs.
What the fuck are you talking about?
And if you take scissors and you break them apart,
you have a scissor and another scissor.
No, you have a scissor and a leg.
You break them together and then it's because they have scissors.
No, people would say you have two pairs of scissor blades.
You don't say a scissors.
No one says a scissors.
It's a pair of scissors.
They used to.
And because I learned it from a Charlie Brown comic.
Who's the...
Well, Charlie Brown's like...
Charlie Brown tries his best, okay?
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
About the scissors.
Wait, wait, wait.
Charlie Brown...
I say pass the scissors, not pass the pair of scissors.
However, I understand that's probably growing up to be incorrect.
No, no, pass the scissors is still grammatically correct.
But a scissors is the thing that Rags said.
That's...
No one says that.
I probably say that too, casually.
Yeah.
But I'd still be...
I'd happily consider it'd be wrong.
I wouldn't care.
It's more like a slang thing.
Well, yeah, sure.
It doesn't matter if you say it.
It's just...
It's wrong.
So, um...
You guys so much like a video.
No.
No.
Fuck movies.
Tone load is not being given the attention he needs, okay?
He's fucking playing...
What is this?
Punch up?
Punch something right on the nest?
Punch out.
Is that it?
Because you can have one fist and another fist,
and that makes fists.
But you can't have eight fists, apparently.
Answer implied.
Even though fists are connected...
No, they're not.
Yes, they are!
Fists?
Yes, fists are connected.
Every part of your body's connected, Wolf.
Well, yeah, sure, but nothing.
Oh, you did it!
I'm right.
I'm right.
You're wrong.
Got it.
I'm right.
You're wrong.
No.
No.
Okay.
My two thumbs are not attached to each other,
just like my two fists.
Yes, they are.
Yeah.
Everything from the frosting of every single whim
is technically still attached to your body.
No, they pull.
My toes connect themselves.
Thumb bones connected to your hand bones.
Your hand bones connect to your arm bones.
Okay, Jared.
If there isn't another one...
I think there was three.
Oh, yeah, there is.
So this was the other version of the Big Idious thing.
Let's do it.
You're like super in individuals.
Oh, yeah.
Chat's asking us to tell Aiden about,
if she knows about Freudian.
Oh, yeah.
So you know that when someone says a Freudian slip,
they're referring to the guy Freudian, right?
Not Freud, because that would be a fucked up mistake.
His name is Freudian.
Not Freudian.
Oh, of course.
We may or may not have had...
Who even...
I've never heard of this man Freud.
I mean, everyone knows Freudian.
We may or may not have had a guest
who was convinced it was Freudian,
and we let them run with it for a few seconds.
Oh, no, really?
So now we have Freudian and Big Idious.
They are two very galaxy-brained individuals.
The Freudian and pupil Big Idious
are the first in history to engage in debate...
Oh, on the trap question.
Should we read this out?
I'll do the...
Are you going to be Freudian and I'll be...
Okay, I'll be Freudian.
I'll be Freudian.
Dearest pupil, I beseech thee
to abandon these explorations unto massivity,
the gods erected boykind to please girlkind,
not thine tireless phallus.
Considered this honored mentor,
if it were a lad of most effete beauty
and the room were dark,
would it truly be queenly to Mount Timonic...
Imagine, if you will, the shadow of a youth
cast on a wall in silhouette,
their groin as yet obscured.
As stimulating as I find such theoretical,
the ancient wisdom remains unchanged
if the balls do not come in contact
as a man partaken in the Big Gay.
But my master, are you not in an effable champion
of the subjective naturity of existence?
If all about us is but a mirage of our senses,
then surely the Big Gay, too, is up to interpretation.
A world of our senses is surely subjective.
Never doubt that, fair beginners.
But within the framework of what our eyes
and peems do tell us,
while summertime fling had a manhood
beneath the stola,
you ought to confess your wife, O pupil.
Leave big titties out of this.
And then we go from that to this meme,
which is just a wonder...
Oh, no, that's great.
I'm saving it.
Yeah, it's like slick editing.
I like it, the style.
This channel is Kaiser Mongol.
I shall now put this one in the chat as well,
or at least a link to the video.
Check out more. There is another one.
It is a tad too long for our purposes here.
Too long?
But we're probably going to check it out
on the offline one.
What is too long for our purposes?
I think it's like a 24-minute meme.
Oh, wow. Yeah, that's...
That's a bit long.
Yeah, that's pretty long. That is a long meme.
And as you know, we're not a fan of the long here.
That's...
Hate the long. Can't stand it.
It should be short and sweet and concise.
It should be 65 minutes or less.
It should be like a mouse.
This is some old good rap. You guys ready?
Yes.
Oh, my God.
Can spiders actually tell the future?
I read that as rats.
What makes good rats?
Quality. Quality meme-age.
And then to segue then,
I have a problem with being a puppet.
Is this 101 meme?
Oh, that's 101.
I don't even remember that.
I don't remember what the context of that was.
Oh, my goodness.
Goddamn it, Kyle Ben.
Okay.
Sexual harassment.
Like, when I...
He seems like the kind of person
that you're just...
You don't want to hurt him by talking to him?
Michael Cera is the red Prius of actors.
My name is not Rad.
You see this pile of papers?
It's a sword-like weapon.
And a grape is like a weird olive.
Some of these highlights are really good.
It's really crazy to have it all lined up,
all of the classic memes, like their origins.
Oh, man.
Some history right there.
So this is next up in the Efap animated series from Plagued Inc.
Plagued Inc.
Plagued Incorporated, I think.
Ooh, boy.
Get ready.
I love how we've hijacked the Avengers theme.
Yes, we have.
Oh, let's pause, all right.
So, YouTube is in chaos.
Copyright strikes have spread far and wide,
engulfing the galaxy in what some call the Big Gay.
Plagued Creations, that's the name.
An ally of Efap has animated this tangent,
making this title crawl an obvious pause spot for meme hunters.
Can you spot the four other Efap guests?
Uh, oop.
Amidst the YouTube chaos,
Mauler and his team of Efap agents
have infiltrated the celestially epic battle station, the Death Star,
and have made an unexpected discovery, also high rags.
Hello.
You know what's going on?
You know the guy that you see press the lever on the Death Star?
He wants to go to the Death Star.
You know the guy that you see press the lever on the Death Star?
He was a bad character.
I mean, what do we know about his life?
Does he have any hobbies?
Does he play tennis?
We're going to have another good dog situation here.
We're going to generate this whole thing for this guy.
You know, he was just having a good day at work.
He called his daughter.
He's like, yeah, I'll be home late.
You know, I'm late at work, but you know.
Go to bed early.
Tell your mom I love her.
I love that kid.
He's blissfully unaware of what the station even does.
He's just like, I just work for the Empire, you know, try to put food on the table.
I tell you to push a button and pull a lever, and it makes a very huge sound.
You know, my wife got injured on the job.
You know, Darth Vader comes by.
He's like, good work.
Good job.
You're doing a good job.
You know, keep an eye on that lever.
I don't know.
Hey, honey.
Darth Vader compliments me.
Honey, make a cake for Vader.
Vader is coming over for dinner.
Can you imagine?
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
And he's like, oh, that was very good.
I was on to the Emperor for you.
I'm moving up, honey.
You know, I might be working with the Emperor.
I just got to go to work tomorrow.
And you know, all I got to do is flick a lever.
It's going to be great.
I'll see you tomorrow that he blows up.
And it's just like his wife.
And when you walk to Darth, those upper positions are always, you know,
becoming available.
So you're always moving up.
There's a lot of room for growth, a lot of potential for moving up.
You have the celebration, the medal scene in The New Hope.
It all works out.
And then there's this epilogue scene where these series of stormtroopers
arrive in a car and they come out with this whole thing.
This whole house.
There's the wife in it.
A folded empire flag.
Yeah.
She's like, I've just got the spaghetti bolognese is ready.
Can't imagine how many people they'd have to visit for that.
He wasn't a good character too.
So fuck him.
Oh,
10.
Granite.
Negative 50 BB wide is zero.
Or Tilda rather.
Yeah.
It had a, there was a Star Wars guild cameo right at the beginning ish.
Then there was the watching or we were in the background debating water.
You've got the family picture back there as well.
Well, that was very good.
It's a little like a five year old version of the person in the empire
uniform.
The whole family address the same way.
But that's play creations.
I shall also post him in the chat.
Oh my.
We love his animations more than area.
Very good.
Those are always a delight.
Yeah.
To watch.
It cannot be understated how much work goes into them.
It's wonderful.
I feel like when we were coming up with that,
I remember feeling like, oh, this could be animated easily with how much like
fucking laws are coming up with this good shit.
But yes, Tenga Neat didn't make it.
But Lee.
I'm sure apps in the chat.
No effort effort.
10.
All right.
This is the last one for the videos today.
Oh my.
I just.
I picture right then the extra credits man comes into this kid's room.
He's like, do you know you're playing us?
And he goes, this needs to stop.
The entire problem is solved by a single conversation.
Let everyone clap.
They're awesome.
You know, someone's going to make like an absurdly detailed like 60 FPS animation
and it's going to scare the hell.
I'm starting to wonder what people are going to start like looking back and
finding all the choice quotes they can actually use.
Oh man, this is a long one.
Come on, dude.
You do that kind of shit to me all the time.
Pip pip doodly do everyone.
Pip pip doodly do.
Pip pip doodly do.
Pip pip doodly do.
Poodle pip and Cheeto.
Have a good day, Wolf.
I fucking thought that Jay was.
Second.
Had a beer.
Hello.
Oh, dear.
All it would take is some conscious planning of the environment they're located in.
Granted, this means that we'd probably have to lock down.
We have to lock down our dialogue a bit early.
Oh, my God.
This reminds me.
It's not a weird.
No, I don't want 50 people to get herpes.
That would be terrible.
You're such a massive.
Here's the thing.
If you're going to buy.
Oh, they got the burning door.
Yeah.
When Wolf was shot out by the fuck.
Oh, that's so good.
I've got a gift for that.
Oh, my God.
James Moore is the Nintendo Switch.
The fucking infinite helmets I was putting on.
The smaller casually wears helmets.
He's got to protect his feet.
I'm going to have.
And you're right.
No milk.
Terrorist rule.
Terrorist rule.
Hey, everyone.
There's a woman.
I have the power, which means that I can bully whatever man I.
Oh, my God.
Sausage raider.
A lot of things happen in here.
Sober has been split into two batters.
Yeah.
Cosmic chicken.
Cosmic chicken with the egg.
This is a depiction of the yellow pipe.
Yeah.
With sausage.
Oh, yeah.
It's got the yellow pipe.
Smiling upon tonal does he defeats a dark evil.
Interesting.
Jared.
This means.
Oh, yeah.
The tonal is defeating Jared.
Is that bats?
Are they bats there?
I don't know if that's a part of the original drawing or not.
Next to Jared's head is bats.
Bats.
For whatever reason.
This is why it's just better to stay with at this point.
Yeah.
You know, look, if women just.
I got a question for you.
Choices for themselves.
None of this would be an issue.
They're so tight.
I mean, who would you rather be looking at that?
I think I'd rather be looking down the barrel of the gun.
If she'd been the dawn, would you?
Oh, my God.
Oh, no.
It's a skeleton.
And I'm in the Hot Wheels thing on the wall.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
You know, this meme selection has been like a throwback to all
the really old memes.
It's great.
It's a great way to end.
There's so many of them.
You could revisit the old ones.
It's like they're new all over again.
If she had been the.
No, no, no, no, no.
He is the dawn.
Shoes have to be done away.
It's time to warm up the ovens.
Oh, yeah.
And that was definitely a good.
You're your next instance.
No.
He's to being all right.
Oh, back when we called him.
Yeah.
So those are the days.
All right.
YouTubers list breads.
What?
In that.
I think.
Did it go out of its way to tell you that the person you're
playing was pressed into service under threat of their life?
Nope.
Terrorist.
Terrorist rule.
No loud soup.
That's why it's so tragic because in the Force Awakens,
the tragedy is that Kylo.
No loud soup.
That's why it's so tragic because in the Force Awakens,
the tragedy is that Kylo will destroy her pussy.
Just so much about it.
That's like her titty meat jiggles a little bit.
Like this boy slice and dice.
Yeah.
This is this is what Hitler wanted.
Oh boy.
Yeah.
Boy.
This is bad on so many levels.
We can stop helping to normalize Nazis.
I mean.
Why is my brain failing me?
What?
What?
What noise is that from?
What game?
I know.
I was thinking the same thing.
That's the zombies from Call of Duty black ops.
Ah.
That's it.
Ah.
Oh my God.
Oh well, wow.
Oh, here we are.
Wow.
Oh Jesus.
Holy.
Christ, holy fuck, I have never seen a more terrifying red dish than me, oh my god, oh
wow, I'm just digging my rope, I got the pentagram on my chest, hello there ladies and gentlemen,
goliath, goliath, efap blood for the efap gods, part dose, I'm not gonna call it part
dose, fuck a son of a bitch, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck,
orange juice is the best of all that juice, really, alcatism cured critically, music
is copyright free, don't worry, no need to pause, lights, creative commons, free download,
credits I guess, the long credits he wins, oh I think that's original, I think it's
original, yeah, it's kind of old super, is that total, that might be, super say it's
away, that's the view, is that uh, CJ there, maybe, he's a great little droids though,
yeah, he's really cute, he made that sound like, that's so good, the cosmic chicken,
oh my god, I don't know if we're expected to read all of that, what happened to Rex,
oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no,
oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh
oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no,
Yeah, a bunch of rhino milks in the chat.
I mean, I'm like, I only read manga, dude.
I prefer it.
Oh, God, that was from the that was from the game stream.
Oh, I've heard that in a while.
Yes, yes.
Oh, that was oh my God, that was really great.
That was wonderful.
I almost shed a little manly doggo tear there.
That was very sweet.
I really like that.
So it was really amazing.
Original artwork, a lovely little lovely little song to go along with it.
That was lovely.
Mm hmm. I second all of those comments.
I loved it.
It was great, such incredible talent.
There's the video posting in chat.
Flick away, folks.
It's incredible.
Like I said, there's a whole bunch more memes is more than double
the ones we went through, but they're all copyright related ones.
So we are going to tackle those in a recording at a later date.
Oh, for now, though, it's over to picture memes.
Picture me of which.
Oh, my boy, little Masham, stick him in a stew.
There's a couple picture pie.
We got there from all over the place.
I did my best to order them in some way, shape or form.
It didn't work out very well.
We're just going to check out some picture memes.
Is that all right, everybody?
Yeah, absolutely. Let's do it.
Thank goodness.
All right. So this is the first one we got some of these.
Maybe in the position of been shown before.
I do not know. 100 percent said the coordinates for China.
Kicks you. Oh, it's Flute Musician.
We defeated Flute Musician more than once.
He came on to my stream.
He did. I defeated him like hardcore in the street.
Me and Rags did with the Super Chat readings.
I fucking killed him straight away.
I was proud of myself.
I guess this is a rendition of Movie Bomb of some kind.
It's very flattering.
God, that is very flattering.
He'd need like a mouse in his hand in order to sort of almost human. Yeah.
Not far off and stuff. Yeah.
Um. Just control, see this shit, make it easier.
The conflucious and the giddiest, I think they conflicted at certain points.
But may the rat be good. It is possible.
The rat is only understand by society of clowns.
These are pieces of information to really think about
over the course of many thinking hours.
Um, this is after the comment about wearing a dress.
I'm trans, Dad.
He's like that.
Where's the connection made just today?
So, yeah, that's a nice fresh one.
Oh, we got a whole combo of old and new memes here.
All the new sounds, dude.
It speaks for itself.
The more Jeb memes, the merrier at this point.
You just be like, let's hope we can make this a reality one day, you know.
Jeb needs that gold.
Let your memes be dreams.
We don't always reference Hitler whenever. Um, yeah.
Though that actually reminds me, after we've got the picture memes done,
we've got that reminds me Hitler.
Well, actually, yes, we've got that, uh, that thing where we have to decide
on whether a quote is from movie, Bob or Hitler.
That's actually something we can do today as well.
I figure Wolf would find that pretty fun.
We still have to play the game.
What game?
You know, is this movie, Bob?
Is this a movie, Bob quote or a Hitler?
Yes, we have that game is ready to be done.
Also, again, just to remind people, uh, the remaining eFap videos
that you'd want to be seen, um, uh, Wolf's going to check those out as well
in like an eFap mini, they will be, uh, covered by him as well as us.
It's just to be safe on not making sure, making sure the stream doesn't go down.
You got, is this as an example of good art?
Should be good, Brad, but, you know, got, yep, we know what makes it good.
Yep.
So therefore we can assess what differentiates good and bad not the way
for everyone to analyze, to be honest, objective analysis makes sense to me.
This is objectivity and art stuff, denying my opinion.
You bigot all.
But, uh, you have to remember that, um, you know, by saying something is good
or bad, objectively, you have essentially ended the conversation and you are a bad.
There's no more discussion that can take place afterwards.
We certainly don't have discussions here and we don't talk about things.
Hey, Wolf, you were there for that stream.
The Nando guy who suggested the alternative Joker film and changed everything.
Oh, yeah.
You're covering Nando.
He's a good liar.
Oh, do you remember it was, uh, it was, what's it called?
Collider.
The guy said, go suck on a toad fart.
We were all just like to toad.
Oh, I think this is the second meme and it's the same guy who depicts critical
drinker as a bottle of alcohol.
I'm not against that.
I like it.
Such a strange, like specific thing to go to.
Yeah, it, that is an odd one.
So you got the guy who makes like false, um, movie synopsis.
So Jeb Zilla versus King Diabeto.
After the dastardly Diabeto's defeat at the hands of Professor Exercise, he is
burning with rav- raviange.
When the ominous Uchi provides Diabeto with a serum of geode milk, the serum
transforms Diabeto into the ultimate form.
King Diabeto.
Jeb knows the only way to stop King Diabeto is to become a monster.
Jeb Zilla.
So, um, I think that film's coming in 2020.
Uh, look out for it.
We certainly will be review pending.
Jeb, I'm an angry Jew.
Angry Jew.
That was funny.
I guess this is an example of how we tangent, but you got George Lucas sells
Disney to Star Wars eventually.
We got all the two Jeb Bush acts with the idea of fan fiction.
It's totally natural.
It's perfect.
Makes sense to me.
Oh God, I don't know what, there's lots of implications with this image.
Don't hurt me, Jenny.
All I need to do is to get up in a car and I'll be safe, right?
Yeah.
It's like your band of hooligans will save you.
Oh my God.
Massive.
Um.
Got one of them movie titles, classics, if I have three, the
story of the search for total.
Oh, look at that.
That's a pretty nifty little logo there.
I will say that obviously if I fall came out where we found tonal,
but, um, or maybe that was the finale of this film.
I don't know.
But either way he came back, he came back with his best review ever.
Unironically, that's probably the best video he's ever made.
Yeah.
I, I was finding myself agreeing with, uh, what I, what agreeing more
than disagreeing, certainly.
Yeah.
Because you guys don't have the greatest things to say about that game.
And he had quite a lot of great things to say.
And he, and he's tonaled and he still managed to make a video
that wasn't that bad.
How did he do it?
We'll never know.
I mean, the fact that we're ending off with tonaled actually being
good is quite heartwarming.
Saving majorly.
Majorly of the 1.2 billionth army has been separated from his squad of fellow
pay for me while his squad debates, whether to leave him behind or not.
Majorly must survive on the Isle of man, dodging three legged, rolling
monsters and a beast legend known as the long man.
Thank God.
Why is it?
Why are you always depicted with fucking tentacles coming out of your face?
I like it.
Oh, I don't dislike it.
I'm just like, I wonder more behind that or something.
No, slender man.
I said, splendor, I was thinking about sugar and so on.
I thought it was like Splenda, like the sugar substitute.
And I got those mixed.
Oh, my goodness.
There are there are questions to be asked, I suppose.
Bletch.
Rice is scared of McMuffins.
What is with Ray's face on this as well?
Is that the normal look?
It's her lip.
She looks like she's constipated.
It looks like perfect.
Cheek looks wrong.
Or am I just crazy?
Oh, no, it does.
It's probably part of the original.
Okay.
Well, I'm not going to judge.
We'll get in trouble.
Remember, you can't do that.
I don't even, this might be a part of like a series of images that I may have lost.
I'm not even sure.
But Patrick Willems is entering a plot hole and it's for him.
Plot holes are specifically for him.
And we can enjoy the movies more.
Got our son, neutron stars, black holes in terms of density.
If at law.
Yeah, you know, that's some that's some deep lore in there.
Pretty hard provisions.
I like this.
I want to see this movie.
The Wags, yay, yay, yay.
I guess we got toxic brood, Atlantis, the lost empire, treasure planet,
Disney, Star Wars fans, Frozen two Star Wars.
So we are pointing at Star Wars.
Star Wars fans are crying.
And then Disney with Frozen two treasure planet and the last of the old vampire.
I'm a little confused.
Treasure Planet Atlantis haven't become horrible remakes yet, right?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, no.
Oh, man.
Yeah, sorry about that, everyone, but inevitable.
I heard they were making a they were.
Yeah, we learned they were making that live action Robin Hood.
Mm hmm.
Oh, God.
Yeah, no, I'm sorry.
Oh, my God.
That's horrifying.
They're all horrifying.
They just don't stop.
Lord of the Massives, the fellowship of the event.
So the dawn is Frodo.
You get to be Aragorn.
Which one am I?
I can't tell from this here.
Gandalf.
Oh, OK.
Let's go right.
Legolas, because like I could tell because I have the long blonde hair.
No, that's glad I'm Legolas.
I got the long blonde hair.
Galadriel also has long blonde hair.
Well, that's who you are is.
No, you are is Legolas.
No, yeah, no, Legolas has a bow.
And you are has a bow.
No, he's got some weird he's holding.
He's got it looks like a spear.
He's holding it in front of him.
You could see the see it sticking up like that.
I am Legolas because I have the long blonde hair.
And I have long hair in real life, so it just makes sense.
Just one color change.
And I'm basically Orlando Bloom from 20 years ago.
Uh-huh.
I'm going to drown in that Mad Elf pussy.
You saying you disagree with them all.
You're going to present a counter.
I'm going to have to take the L on this.
My logic is solid.
OK.
Yeah, I thought you'd fight for the position, but I guess you're conceding.
Rags was right.
He is indeed Legolas.
You know that I'm Legolas.
Yeah, cool stuff.
Yeah, I thought it was something else, but I was wrong.
This is.
Oh, man, I cannot wait.
I want to.
So the bottle in the movie is not that bottle.
This means that this is a production image that was taken for him
practicing milking this thing.
Oh, my God.
Yeah. Enjoy that.
He had to do multiple takes as well as practicing milking this piece of shit.
I'm so sorry, Bach.
So sorry.
Look at what you've become.
You become the very thing you swore to destroy.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
What now?
Oh, nothing to do with the stream.
I'm sorry, bad video essay.
Is this because I am I am ill educated?
Is this Metal Gear Solid?
I knew that would be my guess.
It's one of the Metal Gears, right?
Isn't that like a psychomanus or something?
I've never played a single Kojima game ever.
So, wow.
What's with the Asian hate?
What's that about?
Ah, you know, it's just not I knew it.
Ephraim's Angels.
Major Lee, of course, Rex is in the for.
Yeah, boy, Major Lee has developed a terrifying weapon for Disney,
something that will turn something that will turn give everyone
Eric Butts mind for Disney.
Absolute control.
Major Lee must be stopped from activating the weapon by any means,
even if it means he will get to look at woman.
I may have had a lot of vodka by now,
but that is actually how it's written.
OK, that is the synopsis.
How dare you?
When someone asked theta Roberto why he likes theme tisms,
I am a critic.
Themes are part of my religion.
So undeniably true.
This is how girls argue, how boys argue.
Should the government fund Elon Musk's cat kills research?
The answer is yes, yes, yes, absolutely.
The good of us all.
That's just like my opinion, man.
And you've got all over the background as well.
Now it is all in the back.
I don't know if Tony'll do a team up, team up with I hit everything,
but amidst the bowling bowls,
we've got another rendition of an eFAB Lord of the Rings.
This time rags is Legolas.
Nice.
I've always like with hmm.
I don't see it.
Yeah, it's popped up for me.
Who's oh, shit.
I posted the bowling one twice.
I am so sorry.
They reach hardballer.
I don't know.
I snorkeling like this.
Oh, my God, Eric's
in the chat is Sam always ever faithful.
Sam has been cursed by the mauler plague.
But eventually full of mauler fans, the next 11 hours.
Oh, my dude, he's going to make a video response to your tweets.
It's going to be six hours long.
This is so good.
Jesus.
Undialated.
Yeah, this is what this is what is a standard for anti mauler slash eFAB jokes.
They go, he's going to make a 10 hour response to your tweet.
That's that's what it amounts to.
I think our memes are better.
That's my opinion.
It's my subjective.
We have some pretty amazing memes and we have a whole fleet of amazing meme makers.
Oh, my God.
Ooh, boy, I guess this was rags doing a little
doing a little tool shop, I suppose.
Popping in the little modeling work, you know, got to look good for the hammers.
This was when no bullshit described J.
As a vulture on no bullshit's content.
And then I was like, Jay, you get that means that he considers himself dead.
Pretty much like I'm sure vultures kill live things.
But typically they're associated with picking at dead flesh.
Right. Or at least dead things.
Mm hmm.
Most people say about vultures.
Same for hyenas.
They have the same reputation.
How how sad.
Yeah. Hyenas are all they're capable hunters.
They just get a bad.
This is I think the Sims rags is a rendition of rags in the Sims.
Oh, it says a male, though.
I'm so sorry.
We've got it.
What are those?
Wait, what are those glasses, though?
Let me zoom in.
It's kind of like a sticker.
Rate ism, round head, kind of majorly.
That's really cool, though. Mm hmm.
And I'm rags.
Rate ism.
So is this like a is this like a mod you could make?
Because it has a file size attached to it.
I think so. I'm not 100 percent sure.
I've got a couple of links to that one, huh?
This is a movie I mean to watch with both of you.
Have you seen either of you seen seven psychopaths yet?
No, I have not seen seven.
It is the movie maker who made In Bruges, which I adore.
He made this movie.
Actually, I typically argue it's better than in Bruges.
It's funny as fuck.
Um, oh, well, I definitely want to watch it
because when you show me in Bruges, I loved that movie.
Maybe we should watch it some.
We should do that.
The dawn has been murdered
and there are only seven main suspects.
All of them have a motive.
But Moeller can't figure out who could pull it off.
With Detective Ham Hawk now in the case,
the mystery deepens and turns deadly as Moeller is found dead.
Detective Ham Hawk will have need his smarts and wits
to crack these seven masses before it's too late.
Who do you think would commit the murder?
I'm immediately going with Captain Marvel.
Captain Marvel absolutely would commit murder.
She basically has.
Legal Eagle would defend her.
I don't think he'd commit the murder, you know.
Yeah.
Colin Farrell.
Well, that's what he wants you to think.
Well, he's a good cover, I suppose.
The soldier carried his service dog down a mountain
because it was 117 degrees and the rocks were burning his paws.
Could you just give him little doggy booties?
We don't have a funding for that.
See, this is why you need to elect a president
who can afford doggy booties.
That's the main.
That's such such a nice thing that you're doing for me.
Carrying me across that desert.
On the way to on the on the search for memes.
Um.
Springy, Shad is the most likely to kill someone.
He has the most weapons rags.
Are you challenging me?
I do.
I do have a scary amount of yes.
Mm hmm.
Terrifying, if you will.
Fucking love that you're shagging me.
Yeah, you're challenging me.
Part bad, part scooter, all Bob.
What?
Robo Robo.
No, it's it's Robobob.
Robobob.
It's a robot bomb.
Robobob.
People actually started to notice rags that when we begin some videos
instead of immediately saying it's terrible, you describe it as strange
until you've seen enough.
Yeah, it's very strange.
It's very strange.
What does that caption say?
The number of ways you could rephrase that.
My God, I think I must have heard you say that.
Both of those things.
A thousand times.
Yeah.
Oh, it's perfect.
Oh.
Oh, my goodness.
This one, this one's again with the algorithms.
It's a lot here.
So during a given six hour stream, at least two hours worth of superchas
will be sent by ravenous, disgusting members of the toxic brood debasing himself.
The streamer will respond to each of these in length, rubbing elbows with the
proles by the time two hours have been expended to respond to each audience
comment, another hour's worth of new superchas have been sent, requiring our
hosts to continue this humiliating exercise.
All the while, new messages will arrive each time a portion of superchas
reaches its end, a new one must be dealt with in an endless recursion.
Ipso facto quadirate demonstrandum, facto et logico,
refell it that a stream can literally never end and will continue in perpetuity.
Weep for this wretched man and locked in his internal torment like Tantalus,
Sisyphus or Prometheus, thus spokeeth Vigidius.
Amen. Yeah, man.
He was so far ahead of his time.
He was crazy was.
Oh, if we drop him off in modern times and he'd be like, yeah, that what I thought.
I mean, he's what I would call prophetic.
Well, we got we got we got knobs here.
Oh, boy, because here's the thing.
Everything is SJW.
Everything is anti-white.
Everything is part of the Zionist conspiracy.
And you have to point it all out.
Oh, my goodness.
Don't know why you knobs.
You're just crazy.
Uglier and need a Sarkeesian.
I know. Yeah.
The clown is feeling pain.
I am happy and think it is very interesting conflucious.
Oh, the conflucious one.
Where did that come from?
I've completely forgotten because I'm retarded.
I don't remember, man.
I don't think I remember someone in the chat.
Well, oh, my God.
We need to watch has been a hotel.
There's so many references to it.
We have no idea what it is.
Me and Fringy watched it like within minutes of it coming out.
I liked it.
Yeah.
Give me it.
It's just yeah, it's it's just the pilot of the show.
But they got the funding now to actually start making more episodes.
So I'm pretty eager to see where they go with it.
Not really much happens.
It's a you know, just like a proof of concept more than anything.
But it's a fun proof of concept.
All right. Yeah, let's do it.
Is it better, the Mandalorian?
Well, I haven't seen the Mandalorian role.
I've seen of the Mandalorian or is it better than the Mandalorian?
Yeah, why haven't you seen the Mandalorian yet?
Because I don't want to.
That's not a reason to not do something.
What? What?
What do you mean?
It's not a reason not to do something.
Where would you be if you just didn't do all the things you didn't want to do?
Well, that's the.
Can you imagine a world like that?
I where people just didn't do the things they didn't want to do.
I guess. Well.
Then my point should be proved just from that, just from your imagining.
You should. So well, you can see then that you must watch Mandalorian,
even though you don't want to.
Correct. No. Oh, so the argument goes.
It's something for us to talk about.
I don't want to watch it.
Do we? Well, do you not want to talk about it with us?
I don't want to watch it to ask that.
Don't you know how good it is?
You guys have told me that it looks really bad after episode.
I know you'll love it.
And we could talk about it.
We can talk about it.
It gets bad after episode two.
Then why would I look about it?
Rags and I have said nothing but good things about Mandalorian.
I love Mandalorian beginning bits.
I enjoy Mandalorian, episode one.
See, you start off high.
You like being high, right, Wolf? Yeah, you're one of those.
You're a blazer.
You're a you're a you like the cosmic trail.
As the kids say, they like to you like to poof the poof.
If you know what I'm talking about, you like to light up and smoke
the devil's lettuce.
You like to partake of the lotus.
If you're the Mandalorian's lettuce, if you will.
Yeah, if you buy in what I'm telling,
you like to you like to inhale the narcotic fumes.
What the fuck are we doing here?
I hope that my euphemisms
for drug use in the new episode has Bill Burr.
Don't you want to watch it?
Yeah, the new episode is Bill Burr is a character.
He is funnyman.
You like Bill Burr?
Why is Bill Byrne?
You know, that's a good question,
considering his character isn't funny or likable in any way.
I don't know if I liked him.
I liked it. Well, I guess I guess he was fine.
But like you would think that if you hired a famous,
talented comedian like Bill Burr, you'd be like, hey,
maybe he'll make us laugh once or twice because he's a comedian
and he makes jokes.
You would be mistaken.
I mean, this is Disney Star Wars.
Yeah, but he's like he's not even a half bad actor in general.
He just comes across as like real.
That's what I mean.
You have to be funny as you look at him.
He has to be funny.
You don't see a character.
Wait. OK, actually, let's pitch the joke he makes to Wolf.
See what Wolf thinks. All right.
So I can't actually remember what it is.
I got it. I got it.
So so Mandalorian meets up with this this crew
that he's going to be doing to them.
OK, I know.
Classic Mandalorian.
That's right. So Bill Burr is a part of this crew.
And he's all, you know, like this is a crew.
He you know, why is Bill Burr on the team?
And he has like a million guns.
He has guns strapped to his chest.
It's kind of embarrassing.
He has like five guns.
We'll just we can.
That's fine. It's great.
Actually, it helps many.
He's got more guns than hands at one point.
Someone takes one off his chest and he doesn't do anything about it.
So just take it.
It doesn't matter.
So you might be thinking to yourself like, oh, well, what's the point
in having five guns if you're not even a good shot?
And so the boss guy is like, no, man,
he's a great shot.
He is an ex-imperial sharpshooter.
Imperial, meaning with the empire, right?
And then Mandalorian.
I can't remember if he says something specific, but he gives him
that there is an exchange that implies stormtroopers are bad aims, bad shots.
And then Bill Burr is like.
I wasn't a stormtrooper.
Yeah, he says I wasn't a stormtrooper, smart ass trooper.
What do you think? Well, so like, well, OK, your delivery
was kind of catastrophic, but the point of delivery.
I don't even think that's how it went.
Yeah, no, he's a smart.
He says I wasn't a stormtrooper, smart ass.
He says he says that at the end, sure.
But like the build up is important.
OK, give me the do it.
What do you do it better?
Do it. I don't I don't even remember it.
I just know that was so you call someone else out.
I don't remember what the shape of Italy is.
But if I saw it, I'd know it was wrong.
You can't no, no, no, no, you if you can't make the last Jedi,
you cannot criticize it.
I don't know what the hell is happening here.
OK, the point is, the point is, one, I couldn't make the last Jedi if I tried
to that the Mandalorian has confirmed in universe
that stormtroopers not being able to shoot is an actual thing.
Yeah, so like he's like, oh, I'm I'm a pro-imperial guy.
And then Mandalorian is like lol.
And then he's like, I wasn't a fucking stormtrooper, smart ass,
as if to say stormtroopers are canonically stupid and can't aim properly.
Even though that's not a thing at all that actually exists,
the whole stormtroopers can't aim is built off of people not understanding
that they weren't they specifically weren't trying to hit people in episode four.
What do you remember?
Yeah, not only that, you're right.
But Obi-Wan says that they're like really fucking good.
Do you remember that?
Like Imperial Stormtroopers fucking terrifying.
They will they will melt your aunt and uncle at the moment.
They will fuck you up.
So don't mess with them.
So like it, it's frustrating.
It was frustrating to me in ranks to hear this acknowledged that stormtroopers suck.
They are trying to.
They are. Is this Disney?
This just their their latest, greatest attempt to do what they can to chip away at the OT.
Like remember the OT. Yeah, shit.
I suppose you could apply it to the sequels as well.
Stormtroopers are in that, too.
Um, this sounds terrible.
Why would I ever want to watch this?
Well, this was no, no, no, Wolf.
No, no, no. This was only this was only but a taste.
This was only but I should say this episode is way worse than that.
Yeah. And I want to clarify, though, I thought Bilboo was.
He did. He did what he could find.
Bilboo was I would say that for every actor, actress, actor, person
in all of the Mandalorian, everyone's doing what they can, you know.
Yeah, I don't I can't think of any bad actors.
Can I don't think I can. Wolf, can you think of any bad actors?
Yeah, well, you've seen it. What do you think?
Yeah, what the fuck is happening?
We're asking you if you think there's any bad actors or actresses
like bad faith actors in Mandalorian.
Other than Disney as a whole.
Yeah. In the entirety there.
I don't.
I don't think there are any either.
I literally all I've seen of the Mandalorian baby Yoda memes.
Baby Yoda's doing character that is still consistent.
Yeah, he is.
Yeah, basically.
You know, it's funny.
Me, you. Sorry.
Wait. Yeah, no.
Friggy metal.
Be you with you.
I feel like we're the four people in this fucking universe
that have the take that we have of Mandalorian,
where it started good and just got worse.
Because everyone else seems to think that it started bad.
It got good.
Well, we can back ours up, though.
And then we talked with someone and he was we convinced him.
So once you actually like get people into a discussion
and say, here's all the reasons why it's terrible.
We're not saying you can't like it.
You're saying here's why it's terrible.
The he like, well, for reference, in episode six,
when we watch with six, right, right, six?
Yeah, the last one. Yes, it's six.
We're past the halfway point.
So he gets a crew in six for the first time.
He's not like ever worked with a crew.
And the crew consists of Clancy Brown, right?
Who, if you don't know, the most well-known position
I think people would know him from is he's the drill sergeant
in Starship Troopers.
He's quite cool. Every role he was in Highlander.
I don't know if maybe Google Clancy Brown.
You probably know him.
You got him. Then you got Tonks.
What's her name? Is Adora Tonks from Harry Potter?
She's also the wildling from Game of Thrones.
You know, I'm talking about wildling.
The girl one who turns good and helps Bran.
What's her name?
Oh, I don't fucking know the game.
The show forgot about it.
They brought it back to killer.
Yes, you're right.
But her to them to build a he died in Game of Thrones.
Yeah, spoilers. How does she die?
I don't even remember.
She tries to seduce Ramsay, Ramsay Bolton.
He just fucking kills her.
Oh, OSHA?
Yes, yes, that's it.
Oh, I thought you were talking about the other one,
like the girl that Bran sent away
and then she just never appeared again.
Oh, shit.
Clancy Brown is the voice of Mr.
Krabs. I didn't even know that.
Mr. Krabs?
Mr. Krabs is voiced by a woman.
Clancy is a female name, right?
What's happening?
OK, so and the last person is Richard.
Sorry, Richard Iowadi, who I was watching the robotics review
of the episode and he says I weighed, I think.
And I don't blame him for it.
It's such a fucking weird name.
It's just like a collection of vowels.
But the only reason I pronounce it that way
is because that's what I've heard him say his own name as
on panel shows in Britain.
I can't wait to see who plays Darth.
Yes.
But it was a really cool crew, I think,
in terms of actors and roles to play.
You know, it could have really worked.
I just didn't like the episode at all.
There you go.
We reviewed Mad Lori and Rex.
We did it.
Oh, yay.
Thank goodness we got that done because I think people
getting upset that we hadn't talked about it.
All right, listen, chat.
That's finally caught up.
First off, fuck you.
Clancy sounds like a woman's name.
I would never name my son Clancy.
That's like Nancy Drew's sister, Clancy Drew.
You'd name your daughter Clancy?
I wouldn't name.
I wouldn't name anyone Clancy.
I would name like a tool, like a wrench or something.
I might name it Clancy.
I wouldn't name a human being Clancy or Clancy.
I would just avoid it all together,
even if her sister Nancy was going around solving mystery.
I haven't said anything unreasonable yet.
What have I said this unreasonable?
No, I haven't.
I didn't say you have.
You told the joke unreasonably, and it killed the joke.
It was hilarious.
We both died laughing.
Wait, hang on.
I thought you didn't like the joke.
I thought that was the point.
I hope I'm not the only one that hasn't been just obscenely
confused for the past 10 minutes.
Do you guys want to go back to watching Mean Pictures?
Is that it?
Is that what you're saying?
Yes.
All right, we can do that.
What was the point of our, um, what actually
was the little point of this?
To tell Wolf that they made a joke about stormtroopers
being unable to aim properly in-universe.
It bothers me, OK?
Yeah.
I'm glad we made it.
So this has been hotel again.
This is actually not.
Oh, shit.
It's, uh, fuck, I forget what the title of it is.
I actually liked it more than hotel,
but it's from, like, the same team.
You know this scene.
Hell of a boss?
Hell of a boss, yeah, that's what it was.
Yeah, I actually liked it a lot more than has been hotel.
Thought it was a little bit more charming.
Why would anyone send me this?
I don't remember the context of this specific scene,
but I don't think it needs it.
The important thing is Rags of Movie Bob do not get on.
Oh, I sent you the, I swear to god I copied it correctly.
This is, it's getting harder, OK?
That's all I'm going to say.
You got the Daily Tism.
The Major Lee Seal of Approval contains images of women.
You got 1.2 billion readers.
Oh, my god.
Voting has started for the biggest massive of 2019,
which celebrity will win the popular vote.
Only man to vote for Jeb found at last.
I'm not political, the anonymous man claims.
I felt sorry for the guy.
It seems that Tonald has been missing.
This is an old newspaper, obviously.
He has been found, thankfully.
Clearly.
After three years of extensive research,
a lone person who supported the presidential bid
of John Ellis.
Wait, is that why he's called Jeb?
Is it John Ellis Bush?
Is that actually why he's called,
I thought it's just, I just thought his name was Jeb.
I thought his name was just Jeb because he's from Texas
and that sounds like something they do.
Did they honestly, why would you call him Jeb
instead of John?
Is that true?
Oh, my god.
John is a way better name than Jeb.
OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK.
I'm going to Google this.
We need to know the truth.
Oh, you think you're going to Google it
and just be a fucking.
Bush, John Ellis, Jeb Bush.
Oh, my God.
I had no idea.
I thought his name was Jeb.
I thought his name, yeah.
Jeb is not a public clancy.
It actually makes not that much sense,
but slightly more sense why his slogan was Jeb
with an exclamation point because it stands for John Ellis Bush.
That's terrible.
But everyone says Jeb Bush, which it doesn't make sense
because the B in Jeb is Bush.
So everyone's saying John Ellis Bush Bush.
John Ellis Bush Bush.
I thought John Ellis Bush Bush.
John Ellis Bush Bush.
I kind of want to start calling him Bush Bush.
Honestly, this whole time I was under the impression
that his parents had cruelly named him Jeb.
I did too.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
I had no idea.
Oh, my God.
It's not that they cruelly named him Jeb.
He competently calls himself Jeb.
Can you imagine they had a board meeting
and they concluded that was the best way to mark it?
Oh, my goodness.
And you shall be Jeb.
How is it that we're finding out about this now?
Like, the fourth?
Well, I just I just assumed that it just it wasn't like
an unreasonable name.
I could have because I've seen I've seen that.
What's the movie with Christian Bale playing?
Yeah.
No, the guy who was with George Bush.
Oh, Dick Cheney, Cheney, Cheney, pretty sure nothing.
Tracy, the trace.
Let's say I'm almost so many dicks
before Dick Cheney.
But I could have sworn Jeb was in that like portrayed in that movie
and they referred to him as Jeb.
Just do you think his parents would have called him Jeb?
Oh, that's like terrible.
It's like, oh, that's our that's our Jeb.
That's our little Jeb growing up on the ranch.
What? You don't have to ask these questions.
I just find it funny.
What would your name be if it was just the initials of your name?
Mine's the best.
I think it would make sense.
Yeah, it wouldn't make any sense.
Mine would be cunty.
Oh, my God.
And for those who are like, what the fuck do you mean?
My initials would be cn te so cunty.
Can you either view up what up me or if I got the winning vote there?
No, mine is unpronounceable.
Same with mine.
Well, I'll take the victory on that.
I'm fine with it.
That's what I'll run on. Definitely win.
President cunty, president cunty, at least I'll say it to your face.
All right.
So John Ellis Jeb Bush in the 2016 United States United States
election has been uncovered by reporters working for the daily tism.
The lone supporter was interviewed anonymously
to uncover what alien mindset drove him to such a decision.
The results will shock you.
Having started by assuring his support had nothing to do with policy
or leadership qualifications, he elaborated.
I mean, the guy's own mom said on TV that he shouldn't get the post.
Jeez, did you see his face?
I figured I don't know what's best for the country.
But maybe we could just help this poor guy get his way for once.
New news studies indicate that insomnia serves as a great fuel for memes.
Oh, well, there you go.
You did it here first, I'm assuming this is an allo meme.
SS leader Heinrich Cookie Monster appears jovial as he is sworn in
and reveals he enjoyed coming to the fuck is the origin of this?
I have no idea.
It's probably the Arlo stream because he looks like Cookie Monster.
I mean, that was my guess, but what about the rest of it?
I always managed to bring up the Holocaust somehow.
All right.
We got us another movie coming out.
The 12 Long Days of Efab
will premiere December 11th at a slow.
Oh, shit, that's already yeah.
Came out four days ago.
Hey, what you got in that?
What you got in that that box for me?
Can I just highlight a massive
orgy general production orgy orgy general orgy general orgy general orgy general.
We're going to we're going to see if he really is the long man.
I mean, proofs in the pudding, as they say.
Wolf just casually in some pizza there.
Oh, I could go for some pizza right now.
Pizza would be good.
So sounds pretty good.
Pizza rolls.
It's not too late.
I shouldn't eat that much pizza, though, because I'm trying.
Well, I've been I've been pretty good the last few.
I might have a pizza.
I think this is a rendition of diabetes.
I have just a couple of pieces and then have the rest late.
I don't know diabetes.
He's got the big D on his cake helmet.
He's got a dialysis weapon.
He's got feeding him insulin.
Do you guys like the diabetes is infinitely more popular than movie
Bob will ever be like, oh, yes.
Oh, such a legendary meme.
Let's see who the flute man really is.
It was massive Jay all along.
Why would Jay have been the flute man?
What is his motivation?
What's the flute man, wasn't he?
Conflucius, wasn't that the flute guy?
Yes, they would be called Conflucius.
But why would it be Jay?
I like you in the corner of St.
James.
I don't even need context exactly for this.
I just like it.
Oh, my God.
That's fucking hard.
Oh, my God.
What is this fresh hell?
Do you like how the memes come in all shapes and sizes?
There's nothing in terms of limitations.
Oh, my goodness.
Season's greetings.
I took.
What did we say on the stream of completely forgotten?
I forget, like I remember the stream, but I don't think I remember
anything relating to like going to prison or genocide.
My memory clearly we fucked up
because we had some strong beams and we forgot exactly what they were about.
Chat probably does.
What do we got next?
That's some Avengersism.
Oh, no, this isn't Avengers.
This is this is Crisis on Infinite Earths.
Crisis on Infinite Jabs.
We got Jeb, Diabito, Jebni, Dawn.
Crisis on Infinite Jabs.
Jeb episode, Jeb over Jeb.
It's the end of the claps.
Look at the clap.
This hero is a good dude.
Look at the one where he's running all beginning to.
He's firing a clap.
Is that Jay?
Yeah, that's Jay in the back.
Oh, Jay just said, apparently we made jokes about Cookie Monster committing genocide.
I honestly don't remember that.
Do you think that would be what I wouldn't forget?
But I apparently have.
Oh, oh, there's a total.
I don't even think this is an E-Fap meme, but it's a great meme.
Did Yoda fuck?
You know, there's there's that character.
I didn't actually know it existed until very recent.
Um, there was another Yoda alien on the Jedi Council.
Yeah, I didn't know that until like a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah, she has a brother named Udall.
And you know what their you know what their favorite hobby is?
Fucking no, no, Jesus.
Fucking I was going to say Yodeling.
I never hold on.
I never said that they were fucking each other.
You know, baby, I was just saying I was Yodeling Yodeling.
I know, but he went straight straight up.
Fucking just late.
They're late for the Jedi Council.
They've come in and they're just like, oh, sorry.
I was doing some push ups of the closet real quick.
That's all right. All right.
Well, what about no, Anakin?
You can't be a Jedi master.
Oh, I always look at him.
OK, all right.
Tied your.
Ironically, we are like a third of the way through picture memes.
Oh, my God.
God, you were calling me rags.
We really need to remember this shit.
Everyone remembers the Cookie Monster genocide, except for us.
Very much out of the loop.
All right.
Someone's saying the Cookie Monster meme is a combination of Arlo
and the Nick Fuentes cookie analogy.
Oh, OK.
That's triggering some memory.
It's kind of all coming together.
Yeah.
Um.
Splendimin, splint.
Yeah, I don't want to cut the line.
But oh, wait, what's that?
I need as you walk down the street, you hear a man's voice say
you look prettier.
He smiled to turn around and give him your widest grin,
revealing one inch of bloodstain fangs.
The vampires call me that.
Is that a reference?
Vampires call me that, Don.
What is that at?
Vampires call me the don.
We're deciphering this chat go.
Yeah, what do we do?
Chat assist.
Is it?
I like that you just said chat assist like it was a fucking order in a video game.
They do it. They're good.
They know what their shit is.
They have like a big old like they like Google.
Oh, someone sent me the someone sent me the original of that picture.
And it's terrifying.
I've seen the original, but God.
It's terrifying.
I don't know the vampire thing.
Why did someone draw that?
Were they commissioned against their will?
Possibly.
Wait to answer a question.
I don't know.
Someone said.
Wait, wait, wait, Splendorman would be the nemesis of Diabido.
Wouldn't he? He could potentially be like working with him, you know.
Oh, it's this Don is fatal to vampires.
Is he?
So that makes sense if he's a vampire hunter and he's called the Don.
Wait, why is it not?
You know, because his name is Don and Don is deadly to vampires.
Why is Don deadly to vampires?
Because vampires can't be in the sun, mauler.
You watched vampire
drag count Dracula, you know, Dracula untold.
We watched Dracula untold.
You should be a vampire expert.
Why is the dawn the sun?
No, no, no, no, no.
The D.A.W. and the dawn dawn. Right.
Yes, the dawn. Yes.
Oh, yeah.
I was waiting for one of you two to get it.
So I didn't look like a retard when I said I didn't do it.
Oh, my God.
That's what they call a racism or sexism.
Sorry, got to get it right.
I love this one. Look at this.
Someone's saying, no, the actor for the dawn is on blood and is a vampire.
Wait, why would you kill vampires?
He is a vampire.
That's lame, though, really.
The dawn one is way better.
Build with self hatred, I guess.
Face when the leaks are real.
That's why she's like terrified,
but also hungry.
Oh, my goodness.
And ironically, like Wolf, I don't know if you've seen that stream yet or not,
but the leaks are insane.
I've seen some of the leaks on like Reddit,
but I haven't read all of them and I haven't seen the stream. It.
Like, you know, it sounds hyperbolic, but right.
Like when we read those leaks, doesn't it sound like someone
trying to destroy Star Wars?
It literally sounds like it's the most batshit insane
convoluted fetch quest across the galaxy that I've ever seen.
They have horses riding on top of Star Destroyers.
It's the most insane thing.
Wolf, it's going to be nuts. I can't wait.
I can't wait to just use it as an excuse to just never watch Star Wars again.
You got to watch this, though, because it's insane.
Well, yeah, after this, it's like I've said it on Twitter already in the past
stream, it's like I'm pretty much done with Star Wars.
I'm not a fan anymore. That's not true, though.
That's a lie because you got to watch you're going to watch the Mandalorian.
No, I'm not. Yeah, you are.
I thought you said you'd already started watching it, Wolf.
You said you not only you said you don't miss
that you were going to start watching it,
but that you were actually watching it at the moment in the back.
Remember, you told us about the Bill Burr comment and it annoyed us as well.
Yeah, you explained the Bill Burr joke to us.
So we thought it was terribly told. Sure.
But even the point of the joke was terrible.
I just I really feel like you're I really feel like you're kind of letting us down.
Yeah. Why why start the Mandalorian not finish?
Like why go halfway?
Though I have to admit, watching episodes one, three, five and six is weird.
Like why would you why?
What are you talking about?
All right. I feel like I feel like we can't rely on you.
Yeah, I guess we'll just move on to the next picture meme.
OK, Mandalorian. All right. Next meme.
You know, Buffy, that Star Wars the effect.
That picture was good.
You know, Sad Wolf is that
in that get together, you can watch that video.
It's like a I think it's a 20 year anniversary for Buffy.
Zander isn't seen in any shot with all of them outside of, I think,
Anya, because all of them want to stay away from him because he's crazy.
Oh, my God. Really?
Yeah, he like got into Syria.
He got arrested several times, serious alcohol issues.
Wait, who? It wouldn't.
You wouldn't know him. He's just one of the people in the picture.
It's just sad. Oh, what?
How do you know I wouldn't know him? Maybe we met.
I'm going to bet one hundred dollars on the fact that you do not know him.
I'm going to. Oh, yeah.
Well, I'll raise you. I'll bet two hundred dollars that I don't.
OK, I give up massive soft.
Oh, I can't.
Man, that's rude.
That really disappoints me.
Yeah, I know. You went on Dr.
Phil. You can actually find it on YouTube.
It's such a weird thing because I don't want Zander to be on Dr. Phil.
I know. I was like, I remember I got told about it.
I was like, what the fuck is he on Dr. Phil?
Like, what's the.
Weird, weird, weird, weird things.
He had like some really good shit.
I mean, I like the character a lot. It sucks.
I think the Buffy was like his main.
Consistent referring to him as Zander.
Don't actually know his fucking real name.
Nicholas Brendan.
Oh, well, the fuck you doing here? It's night.
Hey, the sun is up somewhere.
He just has to travel.
Have you guys got my stream?
Yes, look at the way that just filled the screen.
McMuffin.
All right, Jim, you know what's up?
Well, I'm trying to tell from from the actual clip itself.
How much of that is that a little bit of a delay on the stream?
Is that all fake?
Like, is the only original part of it just the closed mouth?
Because, wow.
Oh, I see now. That's funny.
Muffin McMuffin.
I know Eliza Dusky wasn't there either. That's true.
Yeah. Oh, oh, I didn't know the mouth moved.
Mm hmm. Of course the mouth moves.
It's the mouthiest mouth that ever mouth.
This is this is quite the meme you got.
Bad Joker takes most of your problems are caused because of a woman.
Not not to not to take your bag beds.
Joker hates black women.
Bisexualism.
And then it's Bob's fault.
Why bisexual?
I can't. What's the origin of that?
I don't remember.
I can't remember.
So strange.
Oh, hey, look, it's the Titanic relevant to our stream.
Six hours until the streaming cap.
My God, we'll never get through the super chats.
And then raw, you massive.
It's OK, Wolf. I'll swim to New York.
It's OK. Well, I'm a swim to New York.
That's some good shit.
Not to mention how long it would take to make this meme.
Look at this. You got a cow. All the super chats.
Placeable on top of each other. Cut my head out on top of you.
Good stuff. Good stuff.
That's really good.
Cannot go without appreciating a good meme.
That's on the tax off.
It makes sense.
Tax off is dead naming.
Oh, shit, because has he cut his penis off yet?
I don't think so, but I think you can dead name without doing that.
It's not about the money.
It's about sending whites to chambers.
Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness.
And he's on the he's on the stairs.
Robert, so I just take it.
So I just take the blur tool and just move it in a circle.
It's large enough to be tiny.
That's like the laziest way of making a fat person I've ever seen.
This is like smudge. It's smudge.
They took a smudge tool.
Is that a no, I'm pretty sure that's not that's the the stamp tool,
is that where you know here?
Like if you because if you use a large enough smudge
and you drag it out, it only does it once every so far on the image,
like once every so far for the pixels.
I'm saying we're talking.
It looks like it.
I'm sure it's stamp, not smudge. Chat.
Answer this. Is it stamp or smudge?
I'll open GIMP and I'll and I'll take a look.
How dare you refer to me as a GIMP?
Oh, I'll GIMP you.
So. I'll get a picture here, right?
Let me get one of my one of my pictures, right?
Let's drag that on the GIMP and yeah, the smudge tool.
So let's make the smudge tool tool.
Well, see, I'm talking in terms of Photoshop, not this weird program
that no one uses.
GIMP, plenty of people use GIMP.
So, OK, I'll print screen this.
This is what happens if you do it.
I just did it for you.
Jay said, looks like smudge, stamp, smudge, smudge,
stamp, smudge, smudge, stamp, stamp.
We got oh, we got some conflict here.
Well, if you say, well, is it called something?
Studge, smudge, smudge, stamp, GIMP, not stamped.
Rags is thick.
I'm sorry, I had to read that out, right?
I don't know if that's offensive.
I just had to read it out.
It's true.
Smamp, GIMP, gigolo.
Had to read that out, too.
Long GIMP bad.
Dampy smudgy.
Same thing.
Oh, my God, could it be the same thing?
But there I showed you an image as proof of the effect.
Yes, you're right.
It does kind of look like it could have been done that way.
The way I would have if I was told to replicate this image,
I would have used stamp.
Um, moving on, however, we've got
ranks is missing.
On a rhino milk.
Oh, you can.
You can change the rate and the flow.
So if I take the.
I'm missing.
Oh, no, I I I hope I find myself.
I think you're right.
That's a really like it.
Oh, this is the really cool image that we've talked about before, I think.
It's so you got.
Yeah, you got Wilford Brimley, who famously says diabetes.
And with the X, you've got a face at first.
You might think it's the same guy, but in the X is diabeto.
They fit together so well.
It's a really good.
Well, that's actually crazy.
They really do.
Their faces are like, that's almost like the same person.
And I will say this diet, diet, Bob, diabetes, Bob, diet.
Diabeto has a better moustache than Wilford Brimley in terms of grooming.
By the looks of this picture, just saying, just saying like rags.
What do you think?
Is Wilford Brimley still alive?
That's the common question people ask.
Yes, he is.
Red letter media often are shocked by this because he was an old man
like 30 years ago and he's still alive.
Wilford Brimley is 85.
He is currently alive.
I can't believe that he's alive, but he's got this.
All right.
Guess how guess how tall Wilford Brimley is?
Seven foot one.
Well, I'm guessing five four.
Really? Yeah, he's five eight.
So I was a short man.
Yeah, he's not a very tall man.
Woohoo, he's shorter than me.
He's a wide man, though.
Oh, wait, when it says, all right, let's make sure that wasn't.
It always surprises me that he was in the thing.
I'm always like, shit, man, he was in the thing.
He's still taller than Tom Cruise.
Hey, man, Tom Cruise is in some good ass movies like mission.
This is five seven.
Tom Cruise is a short man.
He is a short man.
How tall are you, Rags?
How what? How tall are you?
How tall am I?
Oh, God, here we go. Yes.
I don't I don't know.
I kind of I don't know.
I'm. I'm about I'm at tall.
Well, you measure me at the shoulders about 17, 18 inches.
How tall is your human?
How tall is my human?
Oh, he's like 510.
Oh, I told you, Wolf, I forgot 510.
So I believe I believe Fringey is the tallest of the long men.
I think he's a fucking giant.
Fringey sways in the wind when there's a strong.
Well, he's six five.
I am six four.
So me and Fringey would be long.
How are you so tall, too?
What six foot two?
What is in the water in Welshland?
Wherever you're from.
Well, Fringey's from Ozdraland.
So obviously, whatever is in my water is in his water as well.
Oh, my goodness.
Everyone's like Rags is a man like, no, I'm 510.
That's that's not short.
You know how it works.
Women say anything below six foot automatically disqualifies average male
height, five feet, nine inches.
I am one inch above average.
Hey, that's what that's what Jeremy says about his penis above average penis.
I have an above average penis.
That's where it matters.
Yeah, fuck the average is like, well, there's a lot bigger than average.
Madlets, Btfo.
That's disgusting.
Jay, how tall are you?
Are we all taller than our manager?
Oh, yeah, by the way, I just want to clarify, I can't extend myself
to thousands of feet at will, obviously.
Destiny is five eight.
You have to bring that up.
I just thought of short people and he came to mind.
What are you sure people are short minutes?
How could you say it like that?
That's so offensive.
Jay, how tall are you?
We will put bets on it before you make it.
I got to guess 410.
Oh, he's six six foot.
Oh, his birthdays ago.
He's lying.
Jay, honestly, I would have guessed five foot.
Jay, you are not.
Yeah, but you're like a lanky six feet.
You are. Yeah.
Dude, if he's six foot, he's going to put rocks in your pockets
when it's windy outside so you don't blow away.
I feel like you could like punch him and you would break it off.
You're like he's like Gumby, where he's really thin, but he's tall.
Y'all y'all oh, geez, in the chat, remember Gumby?
Am I the only motherfucker here?
He's talking about Gumby and everyone else is quiet
because they don't remember Gumby.
I don't know who the fuck you don't know about Gumby.
No, it sounds like something you just made up.
No, it isn't.
Y'all know about Gumby.
But Gumby was a real thing.
He had a horse for a friend.
I don't know.
He had a horse for a friend.
Oh, oh, my God.
Pull Gumby, dude.
I actually remember this.
This is because a dude dressed up as this for his dog and his dog went crazy.
Pull Gumby is the whole number of Gumby.
This is from like the 50s and 60s.
Fuck your old rags.
I don't know.
No, I'm not an old man.
Like 70 years old, I guess.
I just need people.
Thank you.
So person to chat.
Thank you, Ramo Graywolf.
How can someone said I live under a rock because I don't know what Gumby is.
How could you say that?
What Jay is?
Yeah, he's made out of clay.
That's like his thing.
Jumbo Jumbo is clay.
How the fuck?
Why is it was a TV show?
A clay character.
How many of those were there?
Oh, stop motion was great.
Did I miss stop motion?
Either of you guys see Caroline?
I never finished it.
That's good shit.
That's good shit.
Anyway, yes, it's true that Jenny Nixon being a tism doesn't really alert us,
but Jeb Bush, man, that is straight to our hearts.
Good meme.
So this was someone submitted a meme where they had the thing with a cow
that was like super thin and we were milking it for Batwoman.
And we corrected them saying the Batwoman is like an infinite source of milk.
And so they corrected the meme.
It's much more accurate now.
They even added the cow.
Well, what do you call that a cow, a maid?
I don't know.
I really like how the guy is the Efap colors.
Yes, the colors have spread to his arm and back.
Don't I don't know the animu ones.
I'm lost.
So you got movie.
Bob, I fire a blast at him and he explodes.
I don't know what what this is.
What animu is.
Could it be Pokemon slash something completely different?
It could be Pokemon or Digimon Digimon.
Is it Digimon digital monsters?
Oh, they have the better theme, but they just suck.
Digimon digital.
Oh, whoa, whoa.
It's a pretty controversial take there.
I mean, it's a worthless take because I never watched it.
I just knew the theme.
No, I know it was worthless.
OK, but I said it was worthless before you did, so you can't just say that.
I'm going to distance myself.
I'm glad that on my screen, Wolf is in between us because I wouldn't
I wouldn't want to be staying well on my screen.
You're right next to me, buddy.
So say we got to say, what's up with Digimon, huh?
What's happening with Digimon, man?
Thinking though, whoo, think of a Digimon had a better theme song than Pokemon.
Is that controversial?
Really? That is how it was more catchy.
OK, more catchy singing.
You just did this.
The did it did it did it did it did it did it did it did it did it?
Yeah, that's catchy.
Not like you're like the X-Men TV show as first off, it's not catchy.
People haven't heard that song.
You are. That's racist.
Wolf, back me up. How racist is being Wolf?
No, explain to Mahler that the Digimon theme song isn't nearly as good
as the Pokemon theme song.
I want to be the very best.
No, I mean, come on.
I said catchy. OK, I'm clarifying that it's catchy, not necessarily better.
But I know theme songs.
Oh, dude, I don't know the theme song of Pokemon or Digimon.
You don't know the theme song of Pokemon.
You know the theme song of Pokemon.
Who doesn't know that?
I don't even I didn't even know Digimon existed until just now.
What? Got to catch them all.
You know, Digimon was like, hey, we're cool, too, but they weren't.
Belch. No, I wasn't aware of only fucking shit.
It was me thinking that everyone knew about Pokemon and Digimon.
I've been living in a different world.
I like this meme, it's so accurate.
Oh, yeah, that is true.
I've told it to Baby Yoda is still the most consistent character of Mandalorian.
Just saying, put it out there.
It's the consistent character of Disney Star Wars.
Yes. What about K2SO?
Oh, yeah, K2SO is pretty good.
It's K2SO and Baby Yoda, best characters of Disney Star Wars.
Huh, just like what Mickey D just said, what are you people?
I think that's in relation to the Digimon conversation.
Like this meme, by the way,
the guy is sweating like baby.
How do you pitch Efap to anyone ever out?
What does one do?
It would have to be a compilation.
So this is kind of terrifying in a way, just for the style.
I don't really know what's happening.
I just got sent it, OK?
In Jeb, we trust. Oh, my God.
You're reading Lord of the Rings. I got that.
What was this made with?
Crayon Digital?
It's like digital.
This I could smell this picture.
Smells. It smells like Play-Doh.
Oh, I know what you mean.
I know that smell. Yes, I know that smell.
Yeah, man.
I was going to say, why?
Like, you know, that that friend, you go over to their house
and you just like every time you walk in, you're like, you wrinkle your nose.
And you're like, why is my friend smell so weird?
What's what's Rags up to at the bottom there? What's he doing?
And I'm clearly sick from all the Play-Doh I've ingested.
I thought it was.
It's I don't. Oh, my goodness.
Oh, this is all right.
I guess we'll have to sink.
Kind of.
This is this is a Reddit post.
You guys have to click this to open it up.
And it's a video. OK.
Boy. Oh, yeah. OK. Wow. Look at this.
So you guys at zero.
Hold on. It's OK for my volume on.
All right. Ready? All right.
I'm there. Three, two, one. Go.
Got Wolf and me just having a dance as you do.
Who's in the picture?
I don't know. I don't think it's that complicated.
I think this is Sims and it's just me and you.
I don't know if there's a rags here.
Where am I going?
You're probably going to eat some pizza.
Yeah. Fuck.
Man, I'm really into this song.
It's all right.
It's a proper elevator.
This is my jam.
Yo. Oh, yes, I'm into this.
See, Wolf thinks I've like died or something.
He's probably I'm probably in the back.
We're trying to find an argument.
Yeah, I'm winning an argument.
He's sped up, sped up a little bit. Yeah.
I haven't played Sims in so long.
I've never played Sims. No. Oh.
Have you played some ranks?
I have not. No. Damn.
I live it. I live it every day.
No, I played Sims on the DS.
One of the comments says this is satanic.
That makes sense.
I played what was it called?
Oh, the Sims two on the DS.
It was the alien.
What a strange platform to play it on.
Was it good?
Yeah, I don't. I can't tell.
Maybe I was just I mean, I enjoyed it, but I was young.
So I might have just been stupid.
I think it wasn't good, but I found some strange
bestial attraction to it and this most surface level
because you could make little songs and one of the songs
was called Disco Blitzkrieg
and you could make all the things happen.
And that just reminded me that Guitar Hero was on DS.
I had Rock Band unplugged on the PSP.
The Sims.
Now I kind of wanted Sims 2 DS music.
All right.
But next meme episode 52.
I think this is when we were covering the closer look
because it says epic, epic, epic, epic.
My advert senses are tingling.
You know, my my my fingers seem to be morphing in with my nose,
but I'm OK with this.
It's having a big thong.
This is I feel like we should have shown this already
if we didn't if we did already.
Oh, well, but it's it's the pixel rendition of the Bob episode.
We've even got Jay Longbone writing rags.
Well, now I'm jealous of Jay Longbone.
I'm bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.
Oh, man, this is like a trip down memory fucking lane.
I don't even know what I'm dealing with right now.
What is this?
I hereby announce that you are objectively a.
Husband and wife, and I'm marrying.
Um.
Um, an egg.
You look like an alien.
I'm OK with that. I'm confused about who I'm marrying.
Um, it looks like an egg.
Hmm.
In one of those Russian dolls, what are they called?
Like Patryoshka dolls, Patryoshka Russian doll.
They're called Ryoshka doll, Matryoshka doll.
Chernobyl dolls.
Also, also known as Babushka dolls.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, Matryosh.
Erendisiones of Diabito.
Looking very fine, if I may say.
I think Diabito should get his movie.
That's my opinion, obviously.
Access to TBS.twin.com was denied.
I can't. That link leads me to a place that I've been denied.
Apparently no dogs allowed on TBS.twin.com.
Wolf, you know the X-Men cartoon TV show theme, right?
That's all right. Just ignore my.
No.
Rags, you know it, right?
The X-Men TV show.
Theme, yeah.
Um, yeah, I think so.
Do it.
I'm trying to give me a second, because I remember.
It wasn't like.
Oh, then the one there, part of that one, like Deeloo, Deeloo, Deeloo,
Nero, Nero, Nero, Nero.
It's the one that goes generally.
Yes, yes, I do.
I might have been confusing it with the Spider-Man song.
Oh, man, that show was fun.
I remember watching that shit.
But the only thing I know about the
the TV show is a clip I saw where
someone takes down Magneto with a wooden gun.
And he's like, how did you take me down?
And he explains that the gun is wooden.
And it's like it's like Magneto.
Why don't you just kill all of them now, then?
Yes, people are saying that Spider-Man.
Yeah, I went to the YouTube and.
You tried to cheat and you failed.
No, no, it wasn't cheating.
It's like these are these are shows.
But I haven't seen in many, many, many.
Oh, you haven't seen it in a while.
So that means you don't remember it quite clearly.
That's that's an excuse, both of them.
That's an excuse.
And even even when I even when I hummed it, I said,
I think that might actually be the Spider-Man one order.
Pokemon Digimon, X-Men, Spider-Man, those four themes from Bestowist.
Um, Pokemon is number one, all right, followed by Spider-Man,
then X-Men, then Digimon.
So I'm going to I'm just going to say X-Men beats them all.
That fucking theme is fantastic.
It was good.
Then I love the Pokemon theme, but I found Digimon to be more catchy.
That is my position.
I stand by it.
Oh, so you think that syphilis is a better disease than cancer
because it's more catchy?
Well, that's a complicated discussion because what makes the better disease
the one that is more catchy or the one that is.
Whatever the other thing was.
Pretty sure I asked you that based on what you said was your right to the disease
that is more catchy, be the better one.
No, it is the superior disease.
I'm not saying it's good morally.
So the best disease is the one that knocks out and kills itself immediately.
Yeah, is that how the metrics work?
The best disease is the disease that doesn't exist at all.
I feel like communist.
The only good communist is a dead communist.
Communist can spread like a sexual disease.
They can't spread like a fucking sexual disease.
Yeah, everyone's like, oh, you feel like a sexual disease.
Listen, I think that Spider-Man and X-Men, I think they're both really good.
I really like them.
This is just subjectively me ranking them.
I know the Digimon's at the bottom.
Oh, some people are putting Digimon right at the top.
Oh, it's all right if people are wrong in chat.
How can chat be wrong?
It's always right and it always has a unified opinion.
There's never any difference.
Look, everybody's agreeing on the exact same thing.
There's no difference.
It's a spooter.
Play the Pokemon theme.
OK, so that was we totally.
Oh, I don't even know what to make of this.
I guess it was human scooby.
And then we look at human rags based on rags as doggo.
I understand this, ma'am.
Yeah, not bad rags.
Scooby rags.
Oh, yeah, fucking.
I got that. I got I'm I have a quite the quite the physique.
Is it curious scooby versus the Chad rags.
So this is a shad.
This is the great emu king with tiger snake arms.
This is a this is a photo realistic image.
He did indeed commit to this battle and won.
The place he fought him in was the zone of black and white.
Yeah, pretty crazy.
Emus with tiger snake arms.
I don't want anyone to say that's not real.
It's very real.
Next up, we got look at women.
So Major Lee, absolutely destroying this argument.
The straw man says I wasn't making a particularly good point anyway.
As if the straw man just wants to die.
It's like, oh, well.
That was the the play creations video where he like beats the shit
of the straw man role, just like, hey, how you doing?
We're over here if you want to go.
Surprising how much the straw man has become useful in explaining positions.
Oh, the straw man.
This is the nuke sword.
Very good.
This was the Arlo stream in which what would it look like to have a nuke sword?
That looks pretty good.
Would that be dangerous?
Like, would it affect you or do you have nuke immunity?
The nuke sword would be dangerous.
Well, I could see the radioactive fumes.
Yeah, but I'm assuming you're immune to anything that comes
from the nuke sword yourself, like because you're the user.
I don't know. That's my opinion.
Yeah, I don't know.
I feel like just my body in general isn't isn't, you know, we radiation
and I we don't get along that well.
Someone put Elsa Jean in chat.
And so I've been looking up Elsa Jean pictures and
she's a she's a she's a lovely lady was Elsa Jean Elsa Elsa's frozen star.
Oh, OK. Yeah, she's got some she's a pretty good looking.
That's a nice tits.
What was the video we covered where the person said they love rocks?
Love rocks. Mm hmm.
I don't know. I think it might have been the video from
on the potential, like the potential subjective
rating of the film is based on how many rocks there are.
I think that's what they might be.
I think and then we said that you could actually get an objectively
pretty strong game that was all about collecting rocks and it was all accurate.
So like how rocks work and then like categorized into very specific,
high, high detailed systems of rocks,
like death stranding, but with rocks.
So here's the thing, chat.
You say don't mock him for not knowing who Elsa Jean is.
I didn't know who Elsa Jean is.
I don't know porn stars by name.
I didn't feel by ranks.
I felt no.
The chat was like, yeah, right.
Well, you know, like I don't know the name porn stars.
I got like, I don't I don't specifically look and follow their careers
like, oh, I don't work tits look today.
You like, no, I just I just go on the horn.
Do you remember Captain Man?
Oh, no, that's right. I'm a furry.
I only look at furry porn and I know all the characters names
and I read all the comics and I make sure that my porn furry porn lore is up to date.
And I always use the right pronouns.
Ranks, do you remember Captain Man power?
We said like the goodness, totally masculine, crazy opposite feminist hero.
Who I believe we said he throws meat at people.
He has like power drills attached to it.
He has a barbecue attached to his back, I believe.
Fucking don't mess with Captain Man power.
Oh, my God, I forgot about this.
I believe this is original artwork as well.
It is with the Isle of Man flag.
Yeah, that's what gives away.
See, if ever you guys make like original artwork, that's amazing.
You got to make sure we can tell because I for a second thought like, oh,
this must be like some image of a Nazi vision of several like the Muppets.
But that gives it away, the Isle of Man flag.
There's some there's some good rat right there.
So this is very good.
I believe this is us trying to assault the the entity that is a movie, Bob.
I appreciate that he's wearing a bra.
That's actually very thoughtful of him.
But he's throwing meat at us.
We're trying to assault this creature.
I don't think he he it's almost it's weird because he is like a meat volcano.
Uh huh. Uh huh.
And he's throwing. Yeah, it's pretty terrifying to say the least.
This is meat and not shit.
Well, it's got bones sticking out of it.
You're just you're. Oh, my God.
Oh, what are you eating?
This is I just didn't see the bones.
I'm going to forget because he just.
Oh, what a disgusting human.
How much that's your opinion.
It's not based on any kind of standards.
Just some any image, you know, more with with that infinity gauntlet.
And on the gas mass portion, I believe it says like one X, meaning nine and three,
ninety three. That will be the name I usually went by.
Good shit. Good details.
Yeah, it's a cool one. I like the yeah, I like that.
Nine and three molar nine, nine, nine and three molar is nine, three.
I like this.
Oh, that is cool.
Oh, you drew the size of this.
Oh, I was supposed to show the gift first.
Mix a gift. Oh, there's a gift.
I believe so.
So I'm looking at all this.
It's tough to know Elsa Jean right here.
So if you click this or at least play this, I think you get a you get a video.
It's like.
Wait, let me go back to the beginning.
It's when an obstacle seems insurmountable.
Remember, they survived the movie.
Hey, mostly.
It's really good. I like that how it's different angles on it.
It's really good.
Another rendition really animated with his arms up like that.
Oh, it's like a gelatinous cube.
He's very attractive in the jelly world, I believe.
Yeah, the jelly world.
He's less nasty looking.
In the jelly world is very welcome, do you say?
Oh, this was so if you remember Rags, we we covered a Mr.
Stuckman's video.
And he said that like he had the characters lament upon the idea
of a rolling pin enemy, though, how ridiculous that would be.
Someone created the idea of Jerry, the rolling.
Jerry. Oh, my goodness.
It's not impossible, guys.
All right.
No, you know what a good last name would be for him?
Springer. Baker.
Cherry Baker.
Because this is using a rolling pin as a weapon.
I you know what, I gather that I got it.
Yeah. So his last name could be Baker.
The uncanny Efap.
You got Wolf as Rorschach.
Oh, look, we've got the musicians there.
Flute musician. Wait a second.
J log mode can shoot lasers out of her eyes.
Why are you cyclops?
We've got two cyclops on the team.
Wait, so that's always goes Mr.
Bad hat on my mistake.
I guess mistake.
I'm Wolverine and diabetes is, of course, throwing jelly cubes at us.
Wolf, your hat looks like it's smug.
Huh? It looks like your head is smiling smugly.
How do you see the eyes
in a little mouth?
I don't know.
The mouth is supposed to be the little thing in the middle.
That. Oh, the thing.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I'll show you. I'll show you here.
Like I highlight it, right? You can do it here.
I see the eyes.
I don't get the smug smile part.
It's the fucking thing in the middle.
He was supposed to get the red box around the mouth.
No, I know what you I know what you think the mouth is.
I just don't see how I know the mouth is.
I understand. What's the smug part of it, though?
That's the expression that is what isn't the smug part of it.
It just looks like two eyes and a comma.
All right, rags, you've been betrayed.
It's like it's like a smug anime face.
That doesn't look anything like that does.
Fringy back to Fringy back me up.
What what?
No, Fringy is on my side.
Fringy, what the context is this?
Fringy, you agree with me, right?
Fringy, you agree with me on this.
Come on. And and me.
Wolf is the odd man out.
True. No, he's gay.
Oh, what's this story?
What are you doing?
Help me out. I can't.
So in the image that says, do you see the uncanny efap image?
Yes. OK, look at Wolf's hat. Yeah.
Yeah. Doesn't it look like a smug face?
Um, I don't know.
It looks like a trilby.
That's that's all I could say.
I know. I know. I know what it is.
But who is the hat?
And I'm thinking a smug face.
You think the hat has not even an anime face,
just a smug face.
I mean, I guess I can see two eyes there.
And one of them is insulted at a 45 degree angle
a little bit and the other one sort of flat,
which gives it a little bit of a crazy look more so than anything.
I don't know what to make of the shadow at the bottom, though.
That's what's thrown me off.
It looks like a comma.
It does look like a comma.
Does it look like a comma or does it look like an impost?
I don't know. It looks like a comma.
I mean, I haven't seen this picture before,
so I was a little bit distracted by the man's head on underneath the donut there.
What are you meant to wear like an apartment?
You want to know why?
Because it's up high. It's on his hat.
It's up high and apostrophes are up high.
And it's like below the eyes.
It was above the eyes.
I think I might agree with you there.
But why would a smile be above the eyes, Fringy?
And you know, but it's it's I don't even I'm not even conceded
that it is a smile.
This is it doesn't look anything like a smile.
Yeah. And yeah, I think I'm on the side of this one.
Yeah. I'm using my judgment to tell you the wrong.
Maybe if you're used to mouths being flipped
like that's art and art is subjective entirely.
Entirely entirely. 100 percent.
There's literally no choice. OK.
Yeah, that's what we're about.
That's what the podcast is about.
So you're willing to accept his eyes, but no mouth.
Am I am I getting that right?
Well, I mean, I'm not really willing to accept anything,
to be honest with you, there's a shot of this picture.
It definitely looks like it's a smug face.
I show show this picture, Mahler.
Show show this pic, the one here, the one that we talked about.
Why don't you post that chat?
Oh, they put it on full fucking screen.
They can see it.
Every single one of them agrees it's a smile.
There's not a single person who doesn't.
It looks like a smug face.
Yeah, let's see.
Someone just posted the smug face.
How how is that not that? Exactly.
Well, I don't know what this hold on.
Look at that chat.
Yeah, chat. Thank you.
Chat, you glorious. Absolutely.
You know what's up, chat. I love you.
Yeah, if the smile was tilted 45 degrees.
It doesn't. Yeah, it doesn't.
It doesn't look like the smug face at all.
You're just it doesn't look like it at all.
Come on. Are you shitting me?
It doesn't look like it.
It's the first thought is like, look at how far up the mouth is tilting.
It's like he's been in a car crash.
Oh, it does not resemble it in its entirety.
Yeah, that's a pretty impressive.
That's that's that's that's that's what you sound like right now.
People are posting the the
what are you fucking?
What do you call them?
Quotation marks with the slash.
That looks more like it.
I didn't look like it.
No, don't look the same rags.
I don't know what to tell you.
OK, no, no, no. Hold on.
It's not fucking moving.
Hold on. This is what it looks like.
It definitely looks like it.
So close here.
I'll make your link.
Or anger or anger or whatever.
This stream is never going to end free.
That's OK.
We've we've still got nine hours remaining, so we're fine.
See, chat.
Why are you taking a piss or do you mean that?
No, we have nine hours remaining.
See, oh, I got it.
You just keep saying like, oh, look at it.
It's definitely that.
Why would why would Rags need to say anything else when it comes to the truth?
Quite frankly, now let's move along before.
Let's move along before Wolf.
Baron, I'm I'm OK with moving along if you wish.
I bet Wolf that I bet.
Hey, Wolf, is a hat a clothing or an accessory?
Wolf, that's the question.
OK, hold on.
I'm going to need your definition on accessory in this.
I'm going to need you to answer the question.
This is a question you call it.
I don't.
I can't answer the question if I'm not really certain
how to define accessory in relation to clothing.
Because my first thought is accessory, but I don't know if I'm right.
What what Fringy is a hat?
Clothing or an accessory?
I don't know what I don't know what the definition of clothes is.
I like I don't know what to tell you.
Like in definitions.
Oh, I got to write.
How do we deal with these people?
According to Wikipedia, a hat is a head covering.
So I'm going to go ahead and say that.
Yes, as opposed to a foot covering, I guess.
OK, OK. Exactly.
Accessory.
The definition of accessory is a thing that can be added to something else
in order to make it more useful, versatile,
to make it more useful, versatile or attractive.
Oh, so really, all clothes are accessories, then?
Because no closer clothes and accessories are based on that definition.
That's not true.
It's fashion accessory.
It's right under here on the Wikipedia for fashion.
Yeah, a fashion accessory.
Yeah, fashion accessory.
What other accessory would it be?
It could be heaps of a different accessory.
It doesn't even say it's clothes.
Is a watch.
Yes, it does.
It literally says where is the outfit?
It has types and it has watches here and canes.
The where is the outfit?
How is a cane a clothing?
What do you mean a cane is a clothing?
Exactly.
It is.
Cane is not a clothing.
Well, maybe maybe it is.
Who knows?
No.
How can you wear like clothes, cats and dogs living with each other on an expedition?
This cane will keep me warm from the elements.
Yeah, well, because I'll be around really fast.
No, it's a little ring around my finger that I'm spinning it with.
Keep it free.
If you spin the cane around really fast, I'll just create a fan.
It will.
No, I'm going to drown.
You spin it around.
You fly away and you're like, I'm hotter now.
It will literally do the...
No, because you're getting closer to the sun.
Come on, dude.
You would have to be going...
You got to spin it over here.
What if it's nighttime and you're flying toward the abyss of space?
Well, I mean, I don't know what to tell you, man.
Like, you guys aren't ambitious enough.
You can survive in space like Leia.
Yeah.
That's the actual cane.
Use the force.
Use the force.
Spin the cane really fast.
Hold your breath for like 10 years and get to the moon.
That's...
What?
What if I arrived at the moon?
Wolf, look, everyone.
Did you know that the surface temperature of the moon on like the bright side is actually really hot?
I'm going to even confirm that.
That's your opinion.
It's not my opinion.
Why don't you just use the cane to fly to the nearest store that has a key?
Yeah, this is what it says.
Temperatures can reach 127 degrees.
So I was right.
Fuck you guys.
Yeah, the sun.
OK, wait, the sun does exist at night.
But if you're flying up at nighttime, you're not hiding toward the sun.
Yeah, it doesn't exist at night.
Well, it depends where you're going.
No, it does depend on shit.
If it's nighttime and you're flying up, you're not flying toward the sun.
No, no, no, no.
If you if it's nighttime, then you use like Earth's gravity as a slingshot to get to the sun.
What the fuck?
That's what you mean, what?
That's like, OK, this is this is you are.
You're not a scientist.
I'm not going to take this seriously.
I don't know what to tell you, man.
Scientists use Mr.
You get hotter when you go to the sun.
But what if it's nighttime?
You're not going to the sun at all.
Are you?
Well, what do you mean?
You're not going to the sun.
You guys are actually like, oh, my God.
Did you just put something that says it's surprisingly hard to go to the sun?
No, this is NASA.
This is NASA saying.
NASA said it's not easy to go to the sun.
Really? That's not what you say.
It's because people telling me the sun exists at night.
I know you don't.
We know that is not up for that.
We all agree on the fact that the sun does indeed exist at night.
It does not mean if you fly up at any position or across the planet,
you end up at the sun.
That's a big sense.
No, no.
You see, the sun phases out of existence when the lights turn off.
This is basic science.
Well, no, I don't suppose if you subscribe to the whole simulation theory,
then I guess the so we're all in the matrix.
But even in the matrix world, they had a son.
I'm just asking questions.
All right.
They had a son in the matrix.
Even if it's a simulation, the planet still spins in that simulation.
Yeah, not the matrix.
The machines blocked out the sun.
Galaxy brain to the conversation.
We'll get to the bottom of things.
What did Ocean Man say about the sun?
Ocean Man.
He needed the tides.
So he needed the moon.
Fuck the sun.
The moon.
What the fuck did this conversation start?
How do we look?
Look, all this important is Fringy did agree that it does look like a smirk face.
OK, we're good.
No, it literally does.
There's a picture on Imgur,
and it's it's there for everyone to see.
And I don't say I don't know what to say.
It looks like the smirk face.
It looks like the smirk face if it was put in like a cap.
You know, when they make patterns in your coffee,
it looks like the smirk face was put in your coffee and let to like sit for like
exactly. Nailed it.
That's three to two.
Three to two. No, no, no, no.
I'm not saying it does look like the smirk face.
I'm saying it's like someone put the smirk face in liquid.
And this is distorted.
This is this is the distorted, like, you know, version of it after 30 minutes.
I have said it looks like someone from a country that doesn't exist
who agrees with me and someone who's not actually sick.
So he's a confirmed liar.
If anything, this hurts your case.
I was going to say you said he came from a made up universe.
That means he's not even real.
There's two liars on my team.
And if you have two liars, they cancel each other.
One big truth.
No, I mean, that's still only one vote for yes.
So you just took away a yes for you.
No, because it's a double player together.
Then it's like one times one is one.
That's true. That's true.
That is true. Rags knows what he's talking about here.
He's right. Oh, yeah.
Well, if you multiply our votes together, one times one is one.
So, ha. Yep.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I thought you realized I was joking, but it's very serious.
This is the time for joking.
No. Well, I get the whole.
Oh, OK. Serious business.
I think we're just going to think, of course, when you start to lose,
it's a joke. You think nine hours into a stream, we're going to start joking.
Is that what you think? I get to be so sleep deprived to go into this fucking
funeral. Hey, should we move on to the next one?
Yes. And ironically, this is pretty awesome.
It's from Stradimire.
I think it's from Stradimire Stradimire.
So it was no Sid Nicholson.
Sorry, Sid Nicholson.
He's he's another talented artist.
So he's got this is completely original.
He got diabetes.
He's consuming a burger, a hot dog, several tortilla chips with cheese
and peppers, donut, donut, donut, donut, donut, donut.
And then you got toxic brood comics back there.
So he's he's in his basement apartment, not a basement, a basement apartment.
Is he manning a drone there?
He is targeting a quiet.
He's typing.
He's got you now, motherfucker.
Marvel going out.
Don't forget to take out the garbage.
Oh, fired.
And he thunks it into the fucking garbage can.
There's even you can see there's a there's an eaten apple
and a soda, maybe a milkshake in it.
The elevator music is still running.
Oh. God forbid, I think many people think that this is 100% serious.
That would be terrible.
He's also got a little key chain that has TLJ on it.
I like that the belt is struggling to
retain the fat as it rolls over the sides.
I like his tricycle.
Yeah. So this is the opening of him defeating Professor Exercise,
who is obviously going to be quite the season finale, if you will.
So this meme, I know I showed you guys this because I loved it,
but the the origin of this meme was me saying that
the guy we covered who said that every YouTube show has to be pitched
to a producer before it can be made.
I said I was pitching Efap to these YouTube executives.
Why are the executives meeting?
Well, because you became a manager.
You were like, yeah, I'm going to invest. Oh, yeah.
I'm going to invest in the other.
You know, I guess you are approved of it.
You just didn't want to, you know, become a manager.
That's a fair choice, I think.
Just third one.
I don't know.
We got five, five games here and chat.
Who is the fifth guy?
Wait, five brains and chat.
Well, chat's like 17 brains all in one.
I think that might be Susan.
Oh. Susan wouldn't have approved to be fair.
It was way too toxic.
Yeah. Well, it came down to a vote and two out of the three voted yes.
Not just your opinion.
Vote yes to Efap.
But yes, I like this image.
Yes, for Efap's independence.
We got before the stream, everybody before the stream inside,
we had Rhino Milk, The Dawn and Spider Oracles were all there to begin with,
two of which were memes that were created, quote unquote, by the manager.
But it looks like I created them in my blackboard whiteboard presentation.
Jay, what do you have to say?
I mean, you guys know that I mean, I mean, people know that this is all like acting.
Right. This is all staged.
Or was that not supposed to say that?
Exactly. None of all this is staged.
I agree. It's all staged.
So this is I believe, Sid Nicholson, once again, is the cover of a new comic.
Fuck, I'm hot.
Tism, the titans of intergalactic space magic from the Efap fanatical universe.
The stamp says I've been hacked.
Titans of intergalactic space.
And ironically, this is a great comic cover.
Yeah, it's a really cool cover.
The Return of Wolf.
And you even got a QR code just in case you guys want to.
Do whatever that does.
I mean, what are QR codes on comics tend to do?
There aren't. Hold on.
There probably is this.
Yeah, someone needs to look that up because that might be a thing.
No, let me check myself.
I got a whole bunch of black codes and QR code.
Can someone scan that QR code to see what it is?
Why can't I scroll over?
Oh, is this as far as it goes?
Scan your QR code.
I'm trying to get it on screen.
There it is. I got a QR scanner. Hold on.
Oh, it said Sid Nicholson dot com.
Yeah, that's cool.
He's a good man.
He made he made the splash.
I was fucking fantabulous.
Yesterday, I found out that there's a porn site called Black Tism.
Well, let's take a look.
That's your immediate reaction.
Black Tism dot com.
Black Tism.
It says black conservative intellectuals in modern America.
Oh, God, really?
Oh, because of conservatism is why it's showing up.
Oh, oh, for me, it's just monster black cocks for cute white teens.
So coming from you, it's
manager. You're not supposed to say such things.
Oh, I can say whatever it is to say.
True. Oh, and this is like a
what is this is this reference is a specific animu.
But me being so uneducated, I don't actually know which animu
you guys are on a new issue, like Jojo or something.
That's a motherfucking Jojo reference.
Jojo, it is. But yeah, pretty fantastic. I love it.
If I was to appear in an anime, I'm OK with this being the rendition.
He went with Black Tism.
Well, I didn't get it.
Hey, you want to be a guy?
Maybe it waits for results based on stuff that you normally watch, which is why
you actually would you actually get like, do you actually get like
this is the URL.
Is this where you went and got like conservatism stuff?
No. Oh, wow.
Conservatism.
I'm not clicking that for the stream.
Just after I enter for videos.
I mean, yeah, you probably shouldn't is probably what will happen.
I don't even want to click it on my computer.
There's only one black penis on the screen.
Oh, only one. All right.
Don't click it. No, I won't.
Yeah, I'm not that risque, as they say, risque, risque.
Also, that actually does it for the first portion of images.
How do you guys feel?
Oh, God, that's just the first portion, the first portion.
How many portions are there?
Three. I like it.
How when when Mahler says, oh, I don't know what anime that is chats like, oh, it's
this one, it's this one, it's this one.
Knows exactly what it is.
Well, yeah, because our audience is filled with weaves.
Like, do you you knew this?
Oh, and so begins the the meme of the next portion.
Ryan brought them together.
Now it's up to them.
If this is the Legion of Video, as oh, someone I was going to say, but I can't say yet.
I can say to you guys off stream.
I shouldn't have said that there's something interesting.
I want to tell you all, you have to remind me, just say it really, just say it really
quiet. Oh, I don't think that'll work because it'll still be live.
Just just type in the discord chat.
Just type in the discord chat.
No, no, just just like a whisper.
Well, no, because I don't want to risk you saying it.
And then I betray the confidence of someone else.
All right. OK, fine, fine, fine.
Break it up into parts and send each one of us one of the words and then we'll.
No, no, no.
Rags, don't do the plot of arrival.
Just tell us what it is.
This is the plot of arrival.
That arrival was great.
Plot of the funniest joke.
Arrival was great.
No, I destroyed in that debate.
Damn, well, how do you feel?
That sums it up.
Hey, I am one baller.
It comes with memes.
A critique of horse wiggles.
Every favorite pause.
A critique of the last Jedi.
Me, me, me.
I am not against this, but.
Oh, do they have wolf not wolf rags on there?
Like, you know, like a lady that they paint on the on the plane.
Oh, do they? Oh, yeah, that's true.
They do. Yeah.
I love it.
That's great. It's on the second image behind the the propeller.
Oh, yeah. OK, very cute.
Genuinely as bringing J.
Thank goodness you guys are here so you can actually share how good this meme is.
And we've already seen what makes you cheer.
See, that's so I don't know that I've ever seen that joke be made.
And this is what I want to reference as like clever jokes from Rick and Morty.
That people are like, oh, yeah, you have to be smart to get it.
It's like, I don't know.
I just think that it's clever.
Like, your booze be nothing because I've seen what makes you cheer.
That's good shit.
I'm making a video on this right now.
Trying to just try to get now.
And that's why I'm I'm procrastinating by being on ether.
We'd be getting very annoyed at the bad Rick and Morty takes like, oh, Rick and
Morty is not that good.
Rick and Morty tells you that bad people are good.
I saw that I've seen the worst Rick and Morty take ever.
It's from Renegade Cut.
Oh, no. I sent free.
I sent this.
No, I didn't. I didn't recommend it.
I said free.
I sent you a message yesterday saying you want to see the worst video on the
Internet. Oh, yes.
Oh, boy.
I saw the Rick and Morty thing where they had all the sex dragons.
And it was funny.
It is funny.
Attention, citizens of Dragon.
A slut dragon has escaped.
And ironically, Rags, I would I would watch all of it with you at a day just
because of how easy it is to binge that show and just just just it'll be fun.
Just to get you on the thing to do some afternoon.
I'd I'd I'd be down for that.
Because that's the thing.
Like I haven't seen any Rick and Morty yet.
Except how long does it take to watch the whole show at this point?
Is it literally like like six, three hours?
Yeah, it's really long season, basically.
So it's probably like very very fun.
Hmm.
Oh, I mean, I watched it all like preparing for the device when I'm making a
video. I watched it all preparing for that.
And it took me like we all make it was like half a day at most.
Well, are you going to defend Rick and Morty from the people who say that Rick
and Morty are advocating for bad people?
Actually, I'm just going to make a video talking about why it's good.
I'm not I'm not responding to I'm going to throw any shade to risk it.
I might I might pop in a clip from that Quentin video.
Well, he's the cool video is really bad.
He basically said that the show espouses that Rick's viewpoint is the viewpoint
that you should adopt.
And his proof of this was playing Rick's clips over and over again.
It's like, yeah, I'm not playing like Morty's clips or any other clips
contradicting Rick because Rick says it means it's true.
Do you mean to tell me that Quentin is disingenuous?
No, no, no, I think he believed what he said.
Yeah, that makes it worse.
I think he believes it.
That makes a favorite one was when he's you guys know the unity episode, right?
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. This was this was great, right.
So in the unity episode, the whole thing is that like summer
and to a lesser extent, Morty want to like free the citizens of the planet
that have been subsumed by the hive minds.
And when they do, they find out that they're all a bunch of racists.
For a for a wolf and rags, right?
The context is this this creature that is essentially like, you know,
like Children of the Corn, like it takes over your body and makes you
like clones you into a point where you you no longer have any free will.
Yeah, I don't.
OK, maybe you don't know what that is.
It's like body snatches.
Yeah, that's yeah.
There you go. Borg, you know that right when Nebraska horror film.
Fucking so it makes this you have no free will
and you basically become a part of a collective. OK. OK.
So yeah, go on.
Children of the Corn. Yeah.
Yeah. So basically the collective has taken over the planet.
Summer and Morty like kind of want to free them.
And when they do, they find out that the people are actually a bunch of racists
and a race for starts and then and then like they get rescued.
And some says something along the lines.
I didn't realize freedom meant people doing things that sucked.
And it's like, that's a really that's a really funny line, right?
But like Quinton's interpretation of that.
What what was it that he was Quinton's interpretation?
Was that that was the message of the episode that freedom is bad.
Because it means that people do stuff that sucks.
It's like the most retarded civil level take ever.
Yeah, I've saved the video.
And my whole thing is if I force Rags to watch all of Rick and Morty,
we will cover that video. It'll be great.
I wouldn't mind watching Rick and Morty.
I've heard good things about it.
Well, that's the problem is the the fan base will convince people
is like, oh, it's bullshit.
It's like, no, it's really not. It's good.
It's a really good show.
And I mean, Dan Harmon seems to always be involved in really good shows.
That's the thing.
Yes, I hear about the the the Pickle Rick thing.
Yeah, yeah, that's a weaker episode.
Yeah, it's not.
It's a good episode.
Just the pickle shit is I do like it.
But I think it's I like all the therapy, the therapy at the end
ties it together really nicely.
It's a good episode with a cool like theme.
I think that our season three is a real mixed bag.
I'm not mixed bag and that there are any bad episodes like they're all good.
It's just that I always felt like the season three finale left me confused
like it being about the president.
You know, you know, I mean, you guys have seen it.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
I remember being like, that's the finale. OK.
I know that the premiere was really strong.
The the wasteland episode, I wasn't a big fan of.
I was going to say, we should probably go back to me because rags
and rags have no fucking clue what we're talking about.
The only reason you expect it to be a big finale is because of season two
and season one.
The last episode of the season was just then having a party.
And that was it.
That was a good finale.
I thought it was quite explosive.
Yeah, it was a good episode.
But like, well, I guess the thing is, it's it's it's has to do
with like the tone of each season.
It's something that the writers seem to be aware of.
Season one was loose, you know, fun, classic Rick and Morty
adventures as fast as Morty said, you know, fun, classic,
you know, Rick and Morty.
Yeah. And then seasons.
Again, Rick and Morty is some good shit, honestly.
Yeah, right. We should do that.
Season four is amazing.
Season four has been really good.
So this is a reference to Quentin putting out a tweet saying that
if you you should ignore ifap because they treat the people
they disagree with as their personal nemesis,
I don't even know who you are.
But, yeah, several people involved in that, I suppose.
Now I'm going to start posting memes and we figure them out as we go.
I am. Oh, my God.
So. That's from Astif movie.
Yes, it is from Astif.
Don't say Astif. That's gay.
No, that's how Tom pronounces it.
Yes, he's the creator.
Why would he matter when it comes to it?
You guys going to cite that we should call it a gif instead of gif.
I'm ready to respond to the gif instead of gif.
You guys going to go there?
Do you want to go there?
Let's go there.
We'll drive this.
It's the paratext.
That is metatextual of you to say.
Oh, you should watch Renadid cut to find out paratext.
So there's metatext paratext.
Paratext is context added by the author that's not in the actual text.
Oh, does it help you survive falling from a plane?
What? What?
Oh, because we're paragliding.
Oh, no. Parachute.
Oh, we know paragliding applies, right?
You can paraglide out of a plane.
I suppose. I suppose.
I guess you could jump from a movie plane and paragliding.
That sounds like fun.
Let's do that.
It's just weird that you would think of that instead of parachute.
Yeah, I like it's a paragliding before parachute.
I'll attach a thousand parakeets to my arm.
I was shocked, man.
I want to play the alien game with like a roster of eight people
who are taking it very seriously just to see how it goes.
Oh, that would be fun.
I like the repurposed H and N.
I love it. That is for tears.
Tismy drawing of like a Marge Simpson alien has like spread through all of me.
Oh, it's wonderful.
We got the she she crashes the ship on arc two.
She's got this stupid oochy dagger.
Everything is proceeding.
So I have.
Oh, it's going to be horrible.
Oh, excitement.
Oh, as if it was going to be good.
So this is referencing how Sargon came onto a fab and it died.
Oh, so you guys know the meme, the cartoon where it says like
some guys enjoying sports and then some guy goes, hey, sports are gay because
blah, blah, blah, and then he goes, shush, let people enjoy things.
Look, we got the reverse.
Shush, let people engage in constructive criticism.
Yeah, we did it.
Just let people enjoy stuff.
This is applicable because we're currently we stopped at six and a half hours.
We're currently at three and a half hours.
We're at nine, 10 hours nearly with plenty to go.
I can read that.
Double the noise.
My favorite thing is like anyone who doesn't know what
he's reading this.
Be bewildered.
How about you actually engage in conversation with me?
No, I don't think I will.
Oh, shit.
This would be the this.
So we covered this.
Actually, for me, Star Wars has actually been going downhill for years,
culminating with the unholy apocalypse that is the last Jedi.
Tonaled disproves of the last Jedi.
Yeah.
Freaking Tonal actually made a good video.
Yeah.
Unironically, he made a good video.
Oh, wow.
Like watch his new song, Star Wars.
There's a couple of hiccups.
But overall, it's actually a pretty strong video for the length.
We think he may have been watching Efap and he's just taking notes.
Oh, that's you see what I mean?
That's good.
That's good.
I seriously doubt that that's the case.
But hey, I like to think about it that way.
You never know.
People will.
You don't never know.
You know that.
What?
We're going to have to explain this.
So the fact that it's only half the edge.
So, okay.
Fringy Jay.
All right.
The first video from from from Tonal we watched was his channel trailer for his second channel.
He spends the first minute explaining that this is the channel.
He will upload his low standard content, which is pretty funny on its own.
But we move on and the video almost seems like it's going to end.
You know, you're like, oh, this is the natural language.
No, he starts talking about how much he hates on no cooked carrots, not uncooked.
Yes, he's okay with raw carrot, uncooked carrot.
However, fuck him.
No cooked, cooked, cooked.
Um, he's okay with raw carrot, but not uncooked carrot.
Yes, he's okay with with raw carrot.
But he does not like cooking.
And he thinks it's like the bane of like the entire human race.
He hates it.
And then he moves on to actually playing guitar and it's ironically cool.
He's actually good at playing the guitar.
And we want more.
You can see this covered in efap64.
Watch it live on Clash Attack.
What's the new game?
RaidShadowLegends.com.
Watch it there.
And the best part, the best part is free.
Because they contracted to.
Poor fuckers can't say anything out.
Diabeto War.
Star, oh my god.
Look at this cast of characters in this movie.
How could you resist?
I like that I'm Michonne.
Wait, who's Rags?
He's, who's that?
Rags is, um, he's Thor.
Rags is Thor.
And, um, it looks like Don is Captain America.
I'm disappointed that Rags is not a woman.
And, um, what, what are the other ones we got there?
So, oh, I guess one isn't relevant.
Then he's just had his face blocked by, um, Zorro.
Oh, right.
Yeah, you're right.
I can't see him.
Um, nobody's Falcon Falcon.
That's a good conversation to have free.
Do you think this is a good poster for a movie?
The original version, obviously, I mean.
Um, I, huh, what the, you mean the, the Infinity War poster?
Yeah.
Um, my big problem with movie posters in general is that they seem to have an obsession
with putting the actors' faces on it.
And when you have to do that, it means there's a lot of things you can't do.
The thing we talked about this off stream before,
but we really liked the minimalist, you know, attempt.
Yes.
Yes, definitely.
So if it was the poster was just like the gauntlet or some shit.
You could have had just the gauntlet.
You could have had maybe like Iron Man, like, you know,
like you could have him sort of flying forward with a street going behind it.
And then maybe like the silhouettes of a bunch of other superheroes.
Like I don't need the face.
That's the main thing.
I know who the actors are.
I guess they sell better though is the thing.
Well, I probably, I mean, the one thing I will say is that this is like once in a lifetime,
sort of a cool factor of how many like this is seriously all star.
And to have every just to be like, whoa, that's how many people are in this movie.
But it makes for a busy poster for sure.
I guess the thing is, though, we look at like Super Smash Brothers.
They seem to handle.
I mean, it's kind of a mixed bag with Super Smash Brothers.
I think like some of the covers are better than others.
But hold on, let me see the ultimate one.
Super Smash Brothers Ultimate.
I don't know if it was like the most analogous.
Yeah, like Super Smash Brothers Ultimate has like a fantastic poster.
It's really, really good.
And I don't know.
Maybe it has to do with the fact that it's all like painterly and it's not, you know,
it's not all like, it's clear that they weren't taking pictures of these actors on different days
and then just compiling it together.
You know what I mean?
They're not actors that they're modeling.
No, I know they're not.
Those aren't photos, bringy.
You're racist, James.
I literally just said that they were painterly.
Fuck him up, bringy.
Open your ears.
Open your freaking ears.
I think I'm destroying the journey.
It's funny though.
I think Endgame's like poster is probably stronger when it comes to just composition,
but I like Infinity War more.
So like, I don't know.
I'm conflicted.
Like I said, it's once in a lifetime is like, hey,
look at all these characters from the Marvel universe coming together.
But also I love minimalist posters.
So yeah, I think we can all agree that there is no
poster than the Spider-Man Homecoming poster.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Didn't you mean Far From Home where they have that weird triangle thing going on?
Yeah, but like Homecoming has this weird shitty looking like explosion fire thing on the screen.
Oh yeah, that poster isn't great.
There's like two Spider-Mans and two Iron Mans and just like a couple random smiling people there.
You know, the thing is right.
Like the teaser posters for both of those movies are way better.
This is a JJ Abrams skin in Fortnite.
Yeah, this poster is way better.
There is a JJ Abrams skin in Fortnite.
That is correct.
That is crazy.
Yeah, that's a much better poster.
It's a much, much better poster.
Look at that.
Someone's cropped this, but the one where he's just lying down on a wall, I think is great.
Yeah, I like the Far From Home one where he's got a bunch of stickers on it.
You can play as fucking JJ Abrams.
That's sad.
And Fortnite.
This isn't a joke, is this?
You can.
It's real.
A JJ Abrams skin.
See, this is a direct problem that not necessarily started with, but was just as cringy when they
involved stupid Fortnite in Endgame.
That was just as cringy.
Stop it.
Keep it out.
Stupid money grab it.
Tonald was right.
What did he say about Fallen Order that he shouldn't be so concerned with the bottom line?
Tonald is Lord.
I can't believe we just referenced a Tonald video in a positive light.
He knows what's up.
Tonald is amazing.
Oh my god.
What is that?
You're starting to Google images, son.
What?
What is this supposed to be?
It's like Google images, I don't know.
The Iron Man looks like that I was hacked alien.
What do you want?
Why?
Because his head is slightly bulbous.
I don't know.
He just reminds me of him.
He just distills what's wrong with the posters.
Like, oh, we got the Washington Post in there.
Oh, there's New York.
I guess here's a whole bunch of people.
The one the ranks just posted.
That was cool.
Yeah.
I love that.
There's a little poster, but there should be things for him to hang off.
No, we don't care.
There's a lot of cool teaser posters for Spider-Man, but every time they do the theatrical ones,
like, all right, take the mask off.
Put the bad guy on there.
Put them all on there, you know?
And it's like, guys, stop it.
You can go and everything.
Oh my, that is busy.
Well, that doesn't that doesn't look so cool.
I can't.
Yeah, like, as much as I could appreciate the drawing of it,
I can't fucking figure out what's happening.
What are the circles at the bottom?
Are they on Discord?
The actual illustrations are really good.
I just think the...
It's too confusing.
Someone put a lot of work into that.
Like a deviant art poster.
Okay, I don't like that one as much as the other one.
Why is he told us the buildings?
It makes sense because that's perspective, idiot.
That's a pretty good one, actually.
Oh, yeah, that was cool.
That looks great.
I like that.
Let me find the far from home poster.
Spider-Man's in a bit of a weird pose.
It looks like he's like...
He's gonna drag that ass across the floor if he's not game one.
This should have been the actual poster for far from home.
Oh, yeah, yeah, I like that one.
Yeah.
Really, really good.
I thought that was the poster for far from home.
It was the teaser poster.
It's the teaser poster.
The actual poster is this one here.
Yeah, please post the real one.
It was fucking weird.
It's the triangle one, right?
The triangle one, yeah.
That looks awesome.
It's weird.
It's not good.
Why is there a triangle?
Because Mysterio does have triangles when he does his powery things.
I think that's what we're supposed to be referencing.
Yeah, but like, I don't know.
This is...
I don't know.
Why is that?
Hang on, hang on.
Why is like MG there?
It's like, just why has she not got shading on Hook?
He didn't have a brown Lego.
I don't know what to tell you, man.
It just looks like a 3D render that they put in there.
The other ones are real and they're like...
She doesn't look 3D.
She looks like the fill tool on a different Lego piece.
They just went out for it.
Here's a better version.
It looks like...
This is a better version.
Oh my god, this is...
This is why we have not been getting through memes quickly this trip.
I like how memes are delaying us, by the way.
That's pretty...
I guess the issue with this one is it's too spoilery.
I don't know.
I like Mysterio's design.
I like the costume.
How is that spoilery?
Because it kind of makes him look evil.
He's looming over him.
I guess, kind of.
The issue is that I like the poster a lot.
Yeah, I guess the issue is when it comes to Mysterio,
it's like if you know the comics, you're like,
oh, he's obviously a bad guy.
A lot of people argue that the spoiler is already done
because most people know.
I don't think most people know.
That's the thing.
I think I would argue most general audiences don't actually know.
Well, I think they're going to be the guy in the fish helmet.
No, most people who know Spider-Man know,
but that's not many people in regards to the whole...
Oh, that homecoming poster is really great.
That's a really good one.
I think it's too busy, though, with the webs
and the smudges all over it.
It looks just dirty.
I'm not sure that I agree.
I think it's really good.
That one, he's not superimposed on the karti well.
No, he's not.
Looks a bit...
Oh, God, that looks weird.
Looking real flat-footed there.
But I still kind of like the poster, I guess.
That's a good poster.
This is top tier poster for Spider-Man.
Honestly, right.
If they release that as the bottom-up poster on the homecoming poster,
I think people would see it.
So, who wants to get back to memes?
What?
Yeah.
These are the memes.
Oh, I think that's where we did that.
Yeah, that was a weird tangent.
We got here from looking at posters.
I'm sure this one won't lead us to talking about posters, too.
Featuring Don't.
Iron Man Homecoming Plus to back your man in Knuckles.
God damn it, I appreciate your pull.
I'm really disappointed that there's no...
You're gone.
Look at the amount of too many stalls.
Featuring Dante from the tablet.
How much dots are you sending there for the remake?
Iron Man Homecoming Plus Spider-Man and Knuckles.
Iron Man Homecoming.
My god.
Oh my god, they photoshopped Robert Dowdy Jr.'s face on the Falcon.
You mean Vulture, not Falcon?
There's one, two, three, four, five, six Robert's here.
He called Vulture Falcon.
I mean, they both have wings when I have a...
Falcon's such a worthless character.
Vulture is unironically way better as a character than Falcon.
He is.
I'm sorry, I'm so tired.
I love that you started your stream.
I went to bed and then I woke up and I was like, oh, the stream's still going.
Yeah, we restarted so we don't have enough time to read all the Superchats.
I'm starting to get concerned.
We won't.
Oh god, another 24 hour eFap.
We haven't gotten to them yet.
Efap Age of Capsion Marvel.
Did you see that?
Capsion Marvel.
Capsion Marvel.
I actually, in like three hours, I really will have...
Oh.
Belch.
All right, we're going to crank this up, folks.
We're going to start moving faster.
So, Capsion Marvel.
We got all the players here.
Unfortunately, Age of Ultron sucks.
Oh, wait, what?
Anyway, next meme.
Okay.
Where else can I teach you who the rooftop god was?
It's fucking raw.
Oh, I love that one.
Gordon Ramsay.
Gordon Ramsay's great.
He's fucking great, yeah.
I watch his shows all the time.
He goes in the trophy case of humans.
He totally does.
Yes, he does.
So, this is Alo saying that the...
Looks like Lego.
Good meme.
This is ER being...
This is a tweet that came from the Sid Nicholson picture, I believe.
It's the relevant meme.
Yeah.
No, this was a Stradimire, wasn't it?
Well, it used to be.
I think this meme was inspired by Stradimire's one.
Feeding him the can of...
What was it?
Just Rights video on Korra.
It woke the ER the fuck up because...
My goodness.
Praising Korra.
That's evil.
This is the Tree of Discourse.
What makes good rat?
You've got...
What's the 11 o'clock?
What is that?
What's that referencing?
Probably the time.
No, that's 11 hours.
Yeah, 11 hours.
So, we...
Oh, I guess...
I mean, we go to 12.
Like, 11.55.
You call that 12, not 11, right?
Assuming it's referencing the cap, I guess.
I'm willing to agree with that.
Dost thou lift?
Look at wamen.
TLJs are stupid.
Does objective even?
Fucking jokers, how do they work?
Milk the rhinos.
Closed-minded.
Known leftist.
Luke looks like a lesbian adaptation.
It's the constant battle of true memory.
Yeah.
I quite like this.
My favorite part of the known leftist thing is the known.
Like...
Known?
Yeah, the known.
People are aware of it.
It's just not obvious.
As opposed to an unknown leftist.
What a fucking secret leftist.
All we have to do is exist,
and movie circle chick get fucking annoyed.
That's all it is.
Have they been taking snipes at us recently?
All right.
Fringy, tell me.
Decipher this.
Tell me what's happening.
What the fuck?
Ah, so I guess the scribble at the top is like,
oh, I'm getting cold.
So you're gonna have to hold on to that one.
Okay, Jay.
Jay, decipher this.
Okay, so the Isle of Man flag is being destroyed.
Unfortunately.
Yeah, you're right.
I said...
Did he really not meet himself?
But he did meet himself,
but he unmuted to speak on the phone.
Oh my god.
Yeah, I'm all right.
I bought some fish.
Australians, what can I say?
Fish buyer.
I wasn't all right,
but I bought some fish and now I am.
Yeah.
So you've become like...
I was really feeling down,
but I bought some fish and everything just turned around.
Things are looking up.
What kind of fish was it?
Cod.
It's still herring.
Fringy, tell us what fish it was.
You guys want to take bets on what kind of fish it was?
Talapia.
I think it was a nice salmon.
We've got to keep going on these memes.
Jay, go.
Okay.
So you're like an amorphous cloud
destroying the Isle of Man legs.
I'm going to go with that, yeah.
Can you see like,
I've got a hand on the bottom left-ish,
but it looks like it's disconnected from me.
Like I'm ripping the leg off with my...
I think you're supposed to be like a...
You're like Rayman.
A lot of the images relation to the Isle of Man flag
have me afraid of it or killing it.
And I'm like, dude, I love the Isle of Man flag.
Why would I kill it?
Yeah.
That shit is fantastic.
Do you think it has three sets of genitals
or no sets of genitals?
Well, you would have one set if it was two legs
and then an extra leg means a half a set.
So one and a half sets, I suppose.
Oh.
That's my opinion.
What kind does it have?
Well, that's my opinion.
So.
Does it have the pee or the legis?
It's Sunday.
It's been Sunday for like five and a half hours, Rex.
It has, yeah.
Yeah.
For him.
Oh, yeah.
For Fringy, it's been Sunday for ages.
What's the international date line?
How long has it been Sunday internationally?
I kind of would have like...
I want to ask him about all the things
he's been talking about when he comes back.
I want to ask him why the fuck he unmuted.
Why would he do that?
All right.
We have to say the Islay of Man.
Mauler versus Jenny the Massive.
The entire world gripped by terror.
Oh, that's cool.
This is Gojira, right?
I'm Gojira.
We've got Kingadore in the background.
I think Jenny is...
I don't know my Gojira enough to know what they are.
He did, guys.
What?
He did.
He did what?
Fringy did.
He did it.
He did, yeah.
All right.
He did.
Fringy did it.
Yay.
This meme works with context and without it.
He's such a good character, though.
This is also a twist.
This is also something that...
What kind of fish was it?
Fringy, what kind of fish was it?
Yeah, Fringy.
It was goth fish.
It was Garfield.
No, like a real fish.
It was goth fish.
No, what was it?
The fuck is goth fish?
Not like a real one.
Are you kidding me?
What is that?
It's like a...
Why was it so important that it was Sunday?
Huh?
Fringy, well done.
You did it.
This is what I mean.
Like, I'm muted.
Why is someone talking to you about fish on a Sunday?
I thought I'm muted, but I didn't.
So now it's fish.
What did you do, Fringy?
You said I did it.
What did you do?
Well done.
You did it.
I applaud you.
Yeah, I'm not providing the context of this discussion.
Well, you're the one that admitted.
But that makes it better at work.
That means it's shady.
But I didn't press mute, so yeah, awesome.
I thought you muted and unmuted was how it went.
That must have been what happened then, because that was an accident.
You let us in on your entire conversation.
So we need to know.
Did I know?
I mean, what do you mean?
What do you mean?
You did it.
I had Godfish.
That's what I'm telling you.
Godfish?
What is that?
But why was it on a Sunday?
What do you mean on a Sunday?
You don't even understand what that's past.
I know.
We only heard your side of the conversation, so we now need the context.
I don't want to give it to you.
Well, you said...
Oh, is it shady or is it saucy?
Why are you hiding it from us?
I don't know what to believe anymore.
Yeah.
Frank, are we not your best friends?
Your only friends?
Jesus Christ.
No, he's got his Garfish dealer.
Yeah, exactly.
Explain how Garfield became a fish.
Okay, well, here's the context.
So I got some Garfish and I was talking about how great it was
that my Garfish dealer was available on a Sunday to give it to me
because he's not normally...
What the fuck is this?
A Scarfish slang for something?
Is that the big crack?
Is that what that is?
A Scarfish slang for coke?
I just assumed that you guys knew what Garfish is,
or maybe it's just...
Oh my god, it's a fucking...
It's a curvy fish.
No, it's not.
Garfish are in fucking the United Kingdom.
Look at that.
Holy shit.
Well, we don't...
Look at this.
Look at this.
It's a sea fish.
It's in your waters.
Yeah, I know what it is.
Look at that.
Oh, which one am I facing?
A fish that broke its back.
What?
Why does this fish exist?
Fringy, even if they're in our waters,
I'm not sure that we eat them.
Holy shit, they're long.
Oh my god.
Are they a longman fish?
They are the longman fish, yes.
I've never heard of Garfish
because when you say that,
over here we have alligator Gar and stuff like that,
like fucking fish that are angry with lots of teeth and stuff.
Oh, it seems like they vary quite dramatically in size.
So we've got that big one that I just put in.
We've also got this one.
Apparently remarkable Republicans in the chat
who wants to debate us.
We're debating Garfish.
Wait, you fucking dude.
Don't frigging Garfish.
Real or fake?
It's real.
I ate it.
He said he got Australia's night on conference.
That's just what a fucking liar would say.
You ate the Garfish and didn't share?
Like, huh?
What are you talking about?
Why didn't you share your Garfish with us?
You always share your Garfish.
I just like put it in my computer and send it to me.
Important question.
Yeah, it looks like it slips right through the ethernet cable.
Great, important question.
Okay, ready?
Do you think it was a good joke
that they commented on the inaccuracy of the Stormtroopers
in Mandalorian episode six?
What are you...
Oh, yeah, that was kind of funny.
Rags, assault him.
Oh, no.
I don't want it to be like an in-universe thing
that Stormtroopers are incompetent and can't aim.
All right, that's a good point, actually.
All right, I'll walk it back.
Wow.
Well, all right then.
Back to Garfish.
Back to Garfish.
What's that to talk about?
Because we have...
Let me show you...
We don't believe Garfish exists.
I think that's an Australian conspiracy.
Well, it's part of the Australian conspiracy.
They've world-builded loads of the wildlife...
It's world-built.
Idiot.
World-build this.
God, you're so sexy.
World-builded it.
Because we are similar, but this is what we've got.
We've got these alligator guards.
No, that wasn't me.
That wasn't me.
That wasn't the fucking team.
Fuck you up.
What the fuck is that?
That's an alligator guard.
That's not an alligator.
That's a fish.
Okay, look.
I'm going to post it again.
You guys are not appreciating the power of this meme.
That's Jim.
Would you not...
Would you not sit on his lap?
Would you not sit on his lap?
Absolutely.
Wow, that's a hell of a Photoshop job.
Yeah.
Well, I'm starting to wonder if he's ever...
That looks great.
Is there a picture of him...
I can't believe I'm looking this up.
This is on my computer, Jeb Bush Santa.
So I want to remind you, Rags, that we said,
if we replace Gandalf with Hitler,
I think it would make for a very...
Lord of the Rings mine towers.
Oh, God.
What else we got?
I think it's just a picture,
but I think this already existed without it being a meme.
That makes sense.
It's weird.
Sargon has this meme that he destroys things he comes out of,
that he fucking...
That's the only Efap we've actually had to stop during, right?
I don't think we've ever had that before.
Yeah, I don't think it's ever happened.
It's a weird meme.
No, no, no, the meme one, we had to stop sharing.
No, no, we didn't.
We just had to stop covering that video.
We carried on.
Oh.
Yeah.
Even then, he's got long sword, long fish, long bow, long man.
These are all from the same planet.
Long fish, like a gar fish?
Oh, my God.
I don't...
What is this?
Help me.
What is it?
I said it isn't impossible to believe the Earth is a marshm-
When did you...
When did that come up and why?
Oh, it was in the nature of belief.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah, yeah.
That was the Arlo episode.
When Cookie Monster committed genocide,
I can't believe none of you remembered that.
Look, what am I supposed to remember everything?
Yes.
That's racist.
That's your job.
You think because I'm white that I remember everything?
I didn't say it like that.
You said it like that.
This is a good meme.
So why is the Skywalker's PG-13 and yet it's meant for children?
But, you know, everyone-
What is the definition of children in terms of age group?
Is it from like, as much as like five to 17 or something?
So, hang on, are you saying that someone under five isn't a child?
What are they?
A baby.
A four-year-old is not a baby.
They can be.
You kidding me?
My two sisters' five-year-olds are often still referred to as babies by my family.
So it says that a child is a human being between the stages of birth and puberty.
Oh.
Hang on a minute.
I'm wrong by that definition, sure.
But, yeah, the definition of the word is wrong.
That's, that's some tism because,
fucking, I'm just talking about how it's colloquially used in my culture.
Oh, I think colloquially-
Yeah, I didn't say I was going by the dictionary.
So get fucked, green man.
Okay, but now, now we are going by the dictionary.
Oh, is that right?
Well, if we're going by the dictionary,
then I'll have to ask you what the definition is, wouldn't I?
Because I don't go by the dictionary 24-7.
Well, then why did you go before with your definitions?
Like, oh, well-
Because I was going colloquially,
which is what everyone does before checking the dictionary.
You used anecdotal evidence.
Yes.
That means you lose the debate.
That is racist.
Well, I mean, I don't know, that's biased against mode.
The point is that Patrick Holmes thinks it's for children,
and he is absolutely correct because no adult ever enjoyed Star Wars.
All right, so get fucked.
See?
I do like the whole thing of Star Wars is meant for children,
and, like, people get their arms cut off routinely.
Just common.
Please clap.
I like how the coin vision of him still looks like depressed.
He's like, oh, fuck it.
I guess I'm president, whatever.
Please, can someone manufacture this?
Wait, hang on.
Isn't manufacturing currency illegal?
I mean, that's not legal tender.
Well, if it were, if you were trying to pass it off as such.
Sure, but we're not done.
We're just going to have-
Well, I'm just letting you guys know.
You shouldn't try to purchase any kind of thing with this, okay?
Keep it to yourselves.
Okay.
I mean, is that how you think-
Oh my god, can you imagine actually giving this to a vendor and they look at it?
They just say, like, I voted for him too.
Isn't it?
Isn't it?
Um, I would assume it's illegal to try and pay with stuff that isn't money.
It's just, you know, the shop is obviously going to reject it.
Is it?
No, I don't think it is.
Well, what if you bought, uh, what if you bought like, um, you know,
an older, you know, like how people collect antique coins.
What if you decided to use that antique coin and the cop's going to beat you up?
No, it's still, it's still legal.
No, like coins don't expire.
If you're using an antique coin-
They do, they do when they're, um, okay.
So in Britain, we used to use shillings.
Those, you can't use those anymore.
Shillings.
Yeah.
You actually had a thing called a shilling.
Well, it was like 20 pounds to the shilling and 12 shillings to the pound or some shit.
He's calling you an old man.
Fight him back.
Fuck him up.
I'm not an old man.
I know this because I watched Doctor Who.
Well, they're not.
That makes you an old man.
You can't know the difference between expiration and being able to use it as
like actual legal tender.
You're pretty much always able to swap it out.
I doubt that you'd be able to swap out some shillings.
They went out like 50 years ago, I think.
No, normally whenever they're moving from one to another.
Yeah, you can stop it out for a while, but you can't anymore.
Well, I guess maybe because in Australia we used to use the Australian pound
and that got out of circulation length in the 70s.
So I'm not sure that if I tried to pay for something with an Australian pound
that I'd get beat up and arrested.
Wait, why did you get beat up?
Why was that the thing?
Well, because the whole thing was, is it illegal to use, you know,
fucking Australian police roughing you up.
That's fucked up, dude.
No, well, I initially used it as American police,
but then I just translated over here for our money.
What that actually do is say, come on, mate.
Come on, you know, just use your head.
How did you just fail to do an Australian accent with that impression?
Looks like someone changed them for their decimal.
He literally can't fail because he's from Australia.
That doesn't make sense.
Come on, that's my point.
Come on, mate, give it a go.
What do you mean that's your point?
You just said he failed.
He can't.
I can't fail.
It's my accent.
That's the same as people say like molds have a Welsh accent.
It's like from Wales.
The fact that you're from somewhere doesn't mean that you have that place as accent.
Well, that's no.
Yeah, sure.
But I have it, though.
Yeah, no, I agree.
I agree with that.
The implication is that it's a fake and it's like, well,
if I'm born and bred in Wales and I have this accent,
then this accent is Welsh by definition,
but it could still be not what was understood typically as a Welsh accent.
Fucking sounded like I'm from Leicester.
I mean, I guess it's...
Yeah, but that's your fault.
Where are you from, Jay?
I'm from Leicester.
You're from Leicester.
That's why I said that.
No, we just established that you don't have to sound like a place that you're from.
Leicestershire.
Yeah, that's my point.
I was saying, well, I don't sound like...
I don't have an accent from the place I'm from.
Yeah, I don't sound like I'm from Wales either, do I?
Exactly.
That's what I said.
That's my point.
Yeah, but I'm from Wales or...
You sounded like a Jamaican or something.
Yeah, no, this is the Welsh accent.
I don't give a shit if you think it's Jamaican, mate.
I just wasn't fucking mad at it, was I?
That's fucking stupid, like, you know?
Like, just because it's not like movies and stuff doesn't mean you don't know what it sounds like.
Fucking Dr. Doolittle over there is going to be having the Welsh accent,
but he's like whispering and shit.
It's fucking stupid.
Oh my God.
That's your real horse and you're not letting it out.
I like the fact that...
Are you like...
Are you fuckers not aware of how the Welsh accent sounds like?
No, I've seen Torchwood.
Who is this part of you?
This is literally the Welsh accent, you fucking idiots.
Like...
I feel like you're an adequate yet sloppy lover.
Adequately we need to test this out.
I don't mind moving because it's inadequate.
I feel like I have no problem getting fucked,
but it would just be really messy, you know?
No, like, I'm fucking adequate.
I'm all right with it.
I'll settle with adequate, that's all right, mate.
This is because...
Rex, this is because of the accent.
Like, ironically, one of the big reasons
why I wanted to separate myself from the tizzleby Welsh language
was when I was in high school,
one of someone like annoyed someone else,
and he outraged with this scenario, said,
Oh, why did you do that for?
And I was like, yeah, Welsh accent is fucking balls.
So is the words they use.
They sound like cavemen.
Why did you do that for?
Someone's child is lost.
The Welsh accent is just not in media enough
for people to know what it sounds like.
It's Disney, though.
This is the thing.
I don't use that accent,
but I never really had a strong Welsh accent.
But the thing is, people listening to my videos
could tell I had a Welsh accent
because of the way that I pronounce certain words.
Are there any certain words that are like a hea?
Whoa.
Yeah.
No, us, us, us.
I remember Earth milk.
That was the thing.
Just because I don't say Earth milk.
All the all the milk that I drink is Earth milk.
Yeah.
See, Rags is on my team.
Yeah, I love her.
No, I like almond milk.
Ew.
Martian milk.
I was sacked.
Molars confirmed Jamaica, Welshman.
That's something build a bear, but Welsh people.
Jamaica.
Jamaica milk.
That sounds like a drink you'd order at a bar.
It's like, hey, can I get a Jamaica?
Well, I'm ironically right.
So Robert Downey Jr. is going to be in the Doctor Doolittle film.
He's supposed to be doing a Welsh accent,
but he's like whispering throughout the whole thing
and he's sort of doing it.
But all the comments section like,
what the fuck is this accent?
All Welsh people are like,
it's kind of our accent, but OK.
I'm going to jump the line with the memes.
I just got sent this.
I mean, can we can we officially can we officially officially official official official?
I mean, I would have gone with Darf Fringy, but Jesus,
I don't know.
I mean, I'm not going with that.
Here's another Darfish meme.
I've got loads of like fucking Iron Man posters or whatever to get rid of, too.
Oh, my God, we're not even close.
My favorite part is that they did that with the bucket tool
instead of like adjusting the human saturation.
Yeah, it's just like the worst possible way of doing it.
But it makes it look so much better as a meme.
All right.
Where were we?
No.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, my God.
Someone just drew an amazing picture in a podcast talk.
Send it over.
Oh, I'm fucking doing it.
Uh, I click it.
Look at that.
Look at the quick.
Feel free to converse as I do this.
All right.
One new meme.
Okay.
Before Rags submits his meme.
We'll have one new meme for us.
Where are we?
Jeb coin.
Oh, right.
I posted this one.
Okay.
So this is legitimate comments about my slash.
If apps work.
It's got some guy who made the six hour take down on last Jedi.
When your anger response is longer than the thing itself.
You can't be a very skilled direct writer.
That's from Houston productions.
Next one is more effects of British accent to make himself sound more intelligent.
I believe that's a British accent.
There's a shit ton of British accents.
He's in fat.
You can confirm that this is your retarded take.
When anyone says British accent, what they're referring to is thick Glaswegian.
Glaswegian.
Next up is therefore his way of viewing media is conservative Christian way.
Will be the only real way of viewing.
That's someone on Twitter recently.
Oh, yeah.
Someone said you're a conservative Christian.
Yeah, they said we are we are a conservative Christian podcast.
You didn't Jay.
You didn't see that the person who said that we're we view media in a conservative Christian lens.
I can see how they get that from.
I can't.
No, I fucking retarded.
Okay, good.
That was that was sarcasm.
Um, he's somewhere right of center and he's using movie critique to push right.
Wait, but remarkable Republican, you're in chat.
I'm left wing, right?
I'm not right wing, right?
We're all left wing, aren't we?
No, no, no.
All of us are right wing because he doesn't like.
No, wait, sorry.
All of us are left wing from his perspective.
He says we're left.
So him and knobs think we're left wing, but the rest of the planet thinks we're right wing.
The rest of the planet.
Here's how it works.
Right and left don't work.
Don't exist as like objective concepts anymore.
It's now entirely subjective.
If someone's more left than you, they're a leftist.
If someone's more right than you, they're a Nazi.
Everyone blamed Sargon for the disruption of the meme.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
That's awesome.
That's is that Niko's who did that?
I believe it is the pink Niko's on Twitter.
I believe that is the drawing style.
Remarkable Republican asks who is Wolf?
Hey, Wolf.
Do you know Remarkable Republican is?
I've known him for quite a while.
Wait a minute.
Is that is that the hold on?
That is the guy who wanted to make a colony on Mars.
We need to go to Mars and make it all white.
Yeah, privatize the military.
If he joins the disco, I could theoretically get a bid here just for Cabio.
Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Remarkable Republican.
If you're listening, go to the description, find the discord invite, join it, and then add.
No, you don't even need to add me.
Just add me as a friend in the top right of the options.
If you don't have this code, then you're fucked.
Everyone just go download it.
It'll take like five minutes.
All right.
Oh, this one.
This one's interesting.
We'll have everyone have their opinions.
All right.
We'll start.
We'll go from top left to bottom right.
Sort of.
So do you agree that on the scale of smart, sincere, stupid, disingenuous,
tonaled is the smartest and sincerest of all the people we've covered?
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, definitely.
Especially after tonight's episode.
Yes.
Then we've got, um, uh, well, I guess on the opposite end, we've got movie Bob.
Do you think that's fair?
Yeah.
No, no.
I don't.
I think.
I think he believes.
I think he believes.
I think he's sincerely.
Stupid.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't think he's disingenuous.
He's actually a psycho.
Most of these people think are genuine.
Yeah.
I think, uh, no bullshit is disingenuous and stupid.
Is no bullshit on this selection.
I think no bullshit is disingenuous.
Yeah.
I think he's right next to.
He's yeah.
He's got to be both.
No, it's really tough to tell whether he's disingenuous or he's just actually.
Really.
I think his old channel makes me think he's disingenuous.
Like as in.
Yeah.
He'll do whatever he has to to get.
Do whatever he can to get you fame and money.
What the fuck?
All right.
Spice and wolf VR Nintendo switch game.
Oh, wolf.
Did you see that there make there's someone who's there's a guy making a halo reach VR.
It looks really cool.
I don't care about VR at all.
Okay.
I think at the end of that conversation.
Thanks.
Fringy.
I think it's cool too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm a champion.
That's it.
I'm a champion.
Jay.
Yeah.
Jay.
No way.
Fringy.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Jay.
Yeah.
I'm kicking.
What?
Jay.
Fringy.
What's the what order these in best theme songs?
You ready?
So you got the Pokemon TV show, the Digimon TV show, the X-Men cartoon TV show.
And what was the fourth one, Rex?
Uh, there was Spider-Man X-Men Pokemon Digimon.
The Spider-Man.
But do you mean Spider-Man the 60s one?
No, it was like the 90s one.
Oh, okay.
I mean, this is going to be tough because like I only recognize two of them then.
Don't worry about it.
Oh, wait.
Pokemon Digimon.
Uh, I mean, I prefer Pokemon.
Like I really like the Pokemon one.
I know, right?
And the X-Men one's really great as well.
So it's number two for you?
I'd probably put Pokemon up top.
Pokemon's really good.
All right.
That's fine.
I'm not going to hate you.
I want to be the very best.
You know, kind of all that.
No one ever was.
I just think that the X-Men one is top two.
X-Men one is pretty awesome.
Why is PC builder simulator on the Nintendo Switch?
All right.
Kicking on with the memes.
We got.
Kicking on.
We got.
Well, it's suitable, don't you think?
Oh, yeah.
The Isle of Man is good rat.
We already knew this.
Isle of Man, of course, is a good rat.
Oh, my God.
What is happening here?
I don't know.
I don't know.
This is good shit.
This is good.
This is a good rat.
That's a good one.
Remarkable Republican.
Look in the description.
Join my Discord and then you'll find in the top right.
It says the Emperor and it should have my account.
And then you right click me and hit add friend.
And I swear to God, give me a second.
If people start doing it, I'm just going to ignore requests that aren't, you know, him.
How will you know?
Well, I'm assuming he'll tell me in the chat which profile he is.
I mean, you assume that you're assuming he's going to make logical decisions based on reason.
Are you trying to tell me that Remarkable Republican isn't an intelligently
intelligent person?
No, I'm not trying to say that.
I would never say that.
Jay, what do you think about this image?
I wonder who was talking me to take that photo.
I was going to say, like, I bet you didn't think this was going to be seen.
Why does that rhino have a vagina on its neck?
That's racist.
So you got, I'm just going to put this.
So you got, well, in my opinion, say in my opinion, again, say in my opinion, again.
Well, you know, the crap is bad.
Nothing brings a family together like geodes.
I should have posted that beforehand.
Everyone's Johnson who done it.
Wait, Rags is muted.
I can't have Remarkable Republican join while Rags is muted.
We're going to have to get through some memes until Rags is unmuted.
Let's figure out how to deal with this rumored Efap group.
Spread rumors, call them out and call them out and ignorant.
I don't ignore.
I am back.
And then you can't see if we can reach out to them.
Isle of Man snaps spiders didn't tell me about this one.
Wow, Jay, you're supposed to be on top of that shit.
Well, maybe they just they couldn't tell him.
Isle of Man snaps.
Yes.
Is that like pictures of the Isle of Man?
Do, do, do, do.
Hey, Remarkable Republican, what are you called on Discord?
Just to clarify.
So I don't add a rando.
No, add a rando.
Add a rando.
Just let's see what happens.
Random person, random person.
I want to get a random person in claiming to be Remarkable Republican to see what they say.
This actually happened.
Do, do, do, do, do.
He's muted.
He's muted.
This ruins the bring out the wild soup.
I'm just going to post memes until he unmutes.
Post memes.
Meme.
This is the internet.
You're not allowed to be a YouTuber on Twitter.
I'm blocking you, Mola.
Oh, my God.
Hello.
So can you hear me fine?
Everything's good.
Most silly, yes.
How do you do?
Doing all right, man.
How are you?
Excellent.
I've had many to drink and I'm with, I'm jovial with friends.
How do you do?
I wish I had had more to drink, but I have not.
So what was, what did you want to talk about?
Oh, you know, whatever you guys want to talk about, I didn't realize this was a special
stream until I got into it because I didn't see like the first few hours.
So did you say that you wanted to debate something?
Yeah, I just wanted to debate a little Star Wars or Game of Thrones or something of that
nature.
That's cool with you guys.
Are you sure that the Leia is best friend hot rather than just super hot?
I'm 100% positive about that.
Yes.
What about when she's wearing the bikini?
That's not too bad, but still best friend out there.
She should have done that in the other two movies also.
I mean, sure, I wouldn't have said no to it.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying, right?
I mean, yeah, we're going to do a personally, I think all of the characters should have.
Do you still feel that Vader is a ripoff of Robocop?
Oh, no, I looked that one up.
I guess.
So if you OK, if you were in a spaceship and landed on Mars and you wanted to go outside,
what would you wear?
And you could wear a space suit, I guess, right?
Yeah, that would be my choice.
What an odd question, Jay.
Why would you ask him that?
Yeah, Jay, there's context like Wellies.
What did you think?
That's the first thing you said.
Hey, only Wellies.
What was Wellies?
Wellies are like big old rubber booties to prevent the mud from getting to your socks.
Oh, I mean, yeah, as long as it's somewhat pressurized, you'd be all right.
I think Wellies are pressurized.
Hey, just because you say that doesn't mean it's true, Jay.
Not the cheap, shitty ones, but the expensive Wellies.
Expensive Wellies.
The space Wellies.
I'm imagining someone of us wearing Wellies, but nothing else.
I imagine C-3PO wear.
Well, OK, honest question.
Can gay people wear Wellies?
I don't know what Wellies are.
So think harder.
They are like big rubber boots without laces or anything.
They just let you slip them on while you're walking in mud.
They're kind of rain boots that girls wear.
No, yeah, they're very popular in the UK.
Sure, I guess.
I mean, let me know if you're somebody who can buy in a store.
If you can buy in a store, you can wear, including macaroni.
What do you make a whole shirt out of it?
Do you have only if you only have one foot?
Are you wearing Wellies or are you wearing Wellie?
You're just wearing well.
Do you think it was in this couple?
Do you think it was a smart decision to put the catapults of the front of the army in Game of Thrones?
I mean, the treasury chaise, sorry.
Yeah, I do.
Why?
The reason is they assume that the armies of the night would arrive by day.
So we give you the maximum time and space to fire at them from afar.
That's not the maximum time and space.
They're in the front of the army.
But if you're there behind the castle walls, they don't have a clear line of sight.
That's the if they're behind the walls.
More trebucides don't need a lot of sight.
You flank it off an arbor.
Yeah, that's like the advantages that they don't need a lot.
Are you fucking retarded?
Do you not know how trebuche works?
Don't be so mean to him because he doesn't know how trebuche works, okay?
If you fire, I mean, I've looked up stuff.
I mean, I've learned a lot of stuff about military things
since I did my privatization series.
But when you're firing, I'll be trebuche.
Okay, look, there's a lot of velocity.
So the range you'll have when you're firing.
You realize having them behind the castle walls gives them more range
than having them in front closer to the enemy army.
The big thing is, right?
No matter how much range you gain from putting them at the front,
you have zero range when they're destroyed first.
But once the dead close, they're not going to be useful anyway
unless you're willing to kill your own guys.
Why would the zombies arrive by day?
Why would they?
Why would they not?
There's, I mean, if you think about it, because their whole thing is knights.
Their boss is called the Night King.
I am aware of this.
Also existed during the day.
I mean, we see pictures of them during the day.
I mean, it's not like all, if their strategy is to rush the castle with melee weapons,
wouldn't it be advantageous to use the cover of night?
Nobody said they exist during the day too.
Not really.
I mean, you know, they could fight during night or day.
They had a massive advantage.
I mean, I guess.
You're saying that they actually, that their strategy worked because it was at night.
That helped a lot.
I mean, because.
So why would they go in the day?
Since that they would do it at night, then like it makes perfect sense.
I mean, yeah, if they, if they can plan it that precisely.
But I mean, the night is half of the 24 hour period.
I think one of you guys criticized the fact that they had the Dothraki charge,
but I mean, that's how it works.
No, that's not how cavalry works, buddy.
You don't know anything about military tactics.
You don't use light cavalry to start a frontal assault.
They literally had no back up.
Mr. RR, you, you realize they all died.
And they all get by immediately because they did next episode.
And there were a lot of Dothraki around the show's bullshit.
What are you going to believe the editing or you're lying?
Why are you posting wellies?
We actually don't know if some of them were able to deliver them right off.
How could they have possibly lived though?
Like surely they would have come back, you know,
the same way that the zombies did, but they didn't.
It's just nothing but zombies.
So they're all dead.
How many Dothraki zombies did you see?
Dude, they're all dead.
Did you miss the part where the Night King raised the dead?
But where were the Dothraki zombies?
They just wrote.
They were.
They were in the crowd.
They were attacking Daenerys and all those guys.
You try to argue to us that the fact that they were dead rather than zombies is a win.
I think you guys are overestimating the number of Dothraki here.
I think we're I think you're overestimating the amount of functioning brain cells in your
head.
I mean, how many cavalry charges have you led lately?
Anything about cavalry charges because we haven't been in them.
Is that how it works?
I haven't drank battery acid.
They rely heavily on momentum and space.
That's how that's why you have the worst weight.
Yeah.
But what good is that going to do if you're basically running into a brick wall of dead
people?
It's just a wall of zombies.
You're going to die.
Plus, you can't see shit.
It's pitch black.
They don't even see them until they're like a meter ahead of them and then they're all dead.
So it was a stupid idea.
You can see how the torch is going to act.
The better course of action definitely would not have been sending your cavalry in as the
front like the full throttle assault to die instantly and be used against you.
No.
I mean, that's clearly the move to make because cavalry just aren't that useful on the defensive
that you have to attack somewhere.
They don't even use them at all.
Just put them with all the other dudes.
They didn't wait until the zombies were against the wall.
Then they flank from the sides of the castle.
Basically, this would be I mean, this would be like if you had people swimming across
the English channel to invade Normandy.
I think you're underestimating how tough the Dothraki are in an attack, but also they can't
defend all the time.
They all die.
They all die.
How many dead did it take with them?
We don't know.
It wouldn't matter because they become zombies anyway.
Doesn't happen until much later in the battle.
Which he could have done at any time.
You have no idea if the Night King or any of his subjects raised the dead between that
moment and later.
You have no idea.
And we know for sure it happened at least once.
Your entire argument rests on the idea that the White Walkers decided not to raise the
dead at that point.
The Night King needed to.
They seem to have a lot of numbers going into that.
You're right.
You know what?
You're right.
They had millions anyway.
Because if you can do that at any point, your casualties are irrelevant.
You can give the other side a false sense of hope.
Then raise the dead and be like, gotcha.
A false sense of hope?
The zombies!
I don't have a false sense of hope.
Yeah, they're looking really hopeful throughout that.
Why would the zombies want to give them a false sense of hope?
Let's give them a false sense of hope by giving them loads of free treats,
killing loads of our guys.
That is no trick tactic, man.
You have a bunch of treats to...
You have a bunch of dudes surrounded and you're just like,
here, use this gun.
Go on.
I'll give you a sporting chance to kill us.
Go on, do it.
The ultimate 40 test tactic is just killing your own troops.
To own the zombie.
Kill your own troops to own the zen.
I mean, if you didn't think the dead would get back up,
I mean, it kind of makes sense.
They know that they do, though.
They know how this works.
Do they all know that?
Because I don't know why they don't know the body.
They literally called the army of the dead.
They saw it at Hardhome.
I haven't even seen the show and I know that
witnessed them raise the dead at Hardhome.
He would have told everybody,
by the way, they could raise the dead to fight in their army.
Did he know that they could do it at en masse, though?
He watched it happen in Hardhome.
He watched it.
He was sitting there looking at it.
Converted the Wildling army,
which is supposed to be one of the largest armies in Westeros into zombies.
I remember that happening.
That sounds cool.
I want to watch this, man.
I'm going to go get some more pizza.
You're telling me that you don't remember the one good thing from all of season five?
No, I guess not.
I guess that was what.
Do you remember, like, do you remember, like, what happened six seconds ago?
Have you ever engaged your brain in your entire life?
Wolf, be nice.
A few times, like, when I destroyed you just now on this point about Game of Thrones.
Oh shit, Wolf got destroyed!
Okay.
And also, like, the whole King's Landing battle.
I mean, that one actually, I think you guys watched that one pretty bad.
What do you mean, battle?
She fucking wiped out everyone.
There was no battle.
It was over.
She took out all the crossbows, like, just like that, and that was over.
She made the militarily wise decision to go bull-
One, two, kill all the crossbows.
Kill children, the militarily wise decision to execute children.
She was trying to create a path for her troops to continue to advance.
What? Is that what you think that was?
She burned the city to the ground.
Her troops didn't mean anything.
How are you meant to advance when it's all on fire?
It's on fire!
There's no words anymore.
If anything, you made it way harder to get there.
They literally retreat because the city is falling apart.
They have to run away from their own leader.
When you're sacking a city, people can nod up in the streets, especially narrow streets
like King's Landing, and at that point, then her already depleted forces from the previous
battle could take additional casualties.
So if you clear the streets by blaming concentrations, it helps.
I need Shadowfist.
It wasn't concentrated.
It was the whole thing.
It was the whole city.
She killed everyone.
She killed people who were well out of the way of the battle.
I mean, I don't think it showed that many civilian deaths.
I think people were reacting a little-
She destroyed the whole city!
The whole city was on fire!
Her fair civilians often got killed.
That doesn't mean you go out of your way to kill them!
Hey, they just happened to be in the way.
She's okay!
She just happened to be in the fire!
She specifically targeted the ground of civilians.
She even admits that she killed children in the next episode.
What are you talking about?
She saw them there, but she still had to clear the street.
She had to clear the street!
I can't clear the street!
She had to clear the street of screaming children.
No women or children would get in the way of the invading.
I'm sure John was very thankful that those children are out of the way.
Hey, that was the problem with John.
Yeah, we wouldn't when they let those kids get hurt by the army.
The sack worked.
You didn't understand how what worked, sorry?
I didn't understand how the sack of a city worked.
I mean, I don't think you could tell anyone or anything.
You should be saying right there.
You know how when Germany invaded Paris,
they didn't just kill every single person that was in the city?
You know that, right?
They're a mistake, right?
They surrendered, why was it?
They're a mistake!
Yeah, they surrendered in the show!
Yeah, they surrendered in the show!
They still did it!
This is worse than Hitler!
All the troops didn't lay down their arms there.
They were still resisting.
They literally threw down their weapons!
That was insane!
I saw that scene!
They literally threw down their weapons and then picked them back up.
Because they were being melted by horrible fire!
I can't believe this is happening!
Well, did Daenerys hear from Cersei that she surrendered to Cersei wave a flag on the town?
It was the bells!
I thought the whole point of the bells was we surrendering it!
That doesn't have direct access to the bells.
How was she gonna send a message?
The city surrendered!
The city surrendered, she surrendered!
What's she gonna do?
Not surrender and then die?
She's got her Kingsguard.
She has to get a mobile phone call from Cersei.
Okay, so she's got a Kingsguard, so let's burn all of the children.
That's not what I said.
But that's the action that she took that you were defending currently, no?
When she burned the city.
I don't know if Daenerys heard the bells, Jon heard them, and we know that from the scene.
She literally...
People argue the bells sent her insane.
That's what people actually argue.
I don't know how Belle would send somebody insane.
I agree with you.
I don't know how Belle said someone insane.
Unless that's the first time in her life she's heard a bell, which I'd find.
If you'd never heard it, hang on.
I really want to question that.
Why would that send you insane if you'd never heard a bell before?
I'm just speculating on the reason why somebody would think that, but I don't know.
Well, no, we're just up there.
Top 10.
What a season finale this is.
How can I get another beer?
This is like the end of phase one.
Who knows what phase we're at at this point?
When did you spell in your video Game of Thrones season eight story arcs?
Like arc as in, you know, like Noah's arc.
That's how you spell the word arc.
You spelled it A-R-K-S, but you're talking about story arcs though, right?
Correct.
Yeah, a story arc is not spelled with a K, it's spelled with a C.
Sure, that doesn't sound right.
It's, hold on.
Fringy, I love you, man.
I mean, I don't know what to tell you, man.
Like a cool name to Wikipedia.
That's how it's spelled.
I don't know.
All right.
Well, I mean, you got anything to say to me?
Oh, I mean, whatever.
Oh, God, no.
Oh, God, no.
Okay.
I think we'll all just be able to mute and Chad.
I need this.
Please, Chad, pick up the phone.
Belch.
Who is Chad?
He's kind of an idiot.
He thinks he knows shit about medieval stuff.
I was going to see if he could talk to everybody.
We like to humor him.
Well, here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
They're all lying.
He's your worst fucking nightmare and I'm going to love the next five minutes.
Why would you say that when he hasn't answered the call yet?
Worst nightmare to pick up the phone.
He just wants to drag out the suspense.
I will agree that the condition is bad, though.
So we've only got that.
Who are you voting for in the 2020 election?
Do what?
Uh, no, you're wrong, man.
Sorry.
Like it's spelled with a C.
You saw.
Yeah, you sent me the link.
I saw it.
I didn't know there was another version of the word.
I thought it was just.
You mean like the covenant?
Everyone's got knowledge caps.
No, that's fine.
Yeah, that's fine.
That's fine.
Right.
Hard survival evolved.
Why is the outer world's cultural Marxism?
The game clearly promotes anti-capitalism and it does so pretty unapologetically.
How so?
I haven't played it.
I mean, okay.
So you start out, you're in this world where there is a board of corporations running everything
and it's basically just all humor about how these companies are evil and how their products suck
and how all the people who lead these companies are corrupt and incompetent.
Why is that anti-capitalist by its very nature, though?
That's literally the only kind of joke that's in the entire thing.
So that can be anti-corruption.
I doubt that that's the only joke in the game.
Being against corruption and capitalism.
Against being against capitalism.
It literally is.
It's a strong man argument against capitalism.
It literally is.
No one interpret it that way.
The one who said it was an argument.
Well, I'm just viewing myself because I can't control myself.
You're fine, Mahler.
Hang in there.
I'm doing it so you can do it.
None of you guys have played Outer Worlds?
No.
No.
I feel like I don't need to to know that you're not telling me the whole truth.
This is what I mean.
I feel like there's something you don't tell me.
So, I mean, I'm pretty sure you would agree with me if you played the game.
We put it that way.
I feel very confident about it.
That the only jokes in the game are anti-capitalist.
Much.
I mean, I'm sure you have an occasional sex joke, but I mean,
I played about five hours of it and it was just a lot of corporate passion.
You didn't beat it.
The game pissed me off.
The game pissed you off the way you didn't finish it.
What?
How did it piss you off?
The story was just...
I mean, the story was just shitting all over capitalism.
I mean, I don't want to sit there and listen to that.
Okay, well, let's actually dive deeper.
If the story was shitting exclusively on capitalism,
why is that necessarily a bad story?
Because it's a false story.
I mean, capitalism is...
What do you mean a false story?
What if you...
That's what stories aren't real.
Capitalism is meritocracy by its very nature.
Is it, though?
No.
It does.
No, you can have...
Obviously.
No, because you've got...
I love capitalism, but there's definitely nepotism in capitalism.
Yeah.
Yeah, especially in America.
Holy shit.
There's a lot that goes on.
Capitalism favors those who are already rich.
But have you ever seen...
Well, no, that's just money.
That's just money favors those who are always real.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
There's money in...
Let's think about it this way.
Okay.
In the game Outer Worlds,
I think they go through seven or eight companies eventually,
from what I've read in reviews.
Would every company be led by someone
who is completely and totally retarded?
What do you mean retarded?
Are they stupid or what?
I met the guy in the first village who was running the cannery,
and I mean, this guy was completely moronic.
He was unable to run his business.
He had let a bunch of people walk out of the camp.
He couldn't do anything about them.
He couldn't make people work.
He couldn't keep the lights on.
How does somebody make people work if they don't want to?
I mean, if you're the boss,
you figure out how to do that,
whether it's through persuasion or force.
What have you got to do?
Through force.
I mean, it's game.
Yeah, in this game, they own their employees.
I mean, if you, you know, you got something to get.
That's not capitalism.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that is capitalism.
No, you don't own your workers.
That's still, by definition, capitalism.
It's just not the capitalist system that we use.
Being unable to negotiate your own working conditions.
They did.
They signed contracts when they moved to this solar system.
Okay, so why are you playing it?
Right.
I'm sure you could call it indentured servitude,
but I mean, it's a fair price for being transported.
Is it a fair price?
I don't know.
I'm going to have a person ship.
I don't think that's fair.
How else do you pay for that kind of interstellar travel?
With money.
With money.
With money.
How are you going to have enough money unless you're rich?
Yeah, you got a job.
You do get them by being rich.
Yeah.
Do it without money.
Wow.
That's an interesting commentary on capitalism.
Oh, wow.
Whoops.
I mean, the last I checked, space travel was not exactly listed as a necessity, was it?
But I thought we needed to go to Mars to set up an ethno state.
No, no, no, no, no, no, not an ethno state.
Theocracy.
Theocracy, not an ethnostate.
Oh, a theocracy.
Theocracy.
An ethno state would be barbaric and backwards.
This is theocracy.
The only the only groups that have enough resources to colonize and then the morality
to keep a community like that together under harsh conditions probably would be a church
organization.
Like, mostly only groups with enough money would be a church.
Like Scientology.
Scientology in theory, I mean, they'd probably fuck it up, but they, you know,
they're welcome to try.
Everyone would direct them to the light.
See, you know, lead us back to the home planet.
There are also a lot of benefits of a space colony that would,
I don't think you're considering, like, especially say for old people who.
No, we don't disagree with the space part.
We like the space colony.
Space colonies are a big thumbs up for me.
And for me, I like space.
Yeah, I want some space.
I saw the final frontier.
You haven't had Astra movie review.
I haven't seen it.
What do you like at Astra?
Did you like that?
Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
OK, OK.
So sorry, I got it.
I'm the host.
I got to redirect this conversation now.
Myself, Jay, Fringy, Rags, Wolf, if we could all stay silent and allow these two
gentlemen to to talk about.
Shad, do you remember episode three of Game of Thrones season eight?
Yes.
The castle defense from the army of zombies.
Do you remember this?
Oh, oh, yeah.
That one.
Absolutely.
I do remember this.
I would like Remarkable Republican.
How do you what do you think of the defense of the castle?
I'll let you start and then I will be silent.
I think that the defense that Danny and John mounted was fundamentally sound
based on medieval realism.
They deployed the catapults forward so they'd have the maximum distance to fire
at the approaching enemy.
They were shipping the enemy would arrive by day.
They sent the cavalry to charge because the cavalry needed space and momentum
to be effective.
So their opening moves were solid.
They also divided their defenders between outside the castle walls and inside.
So we're defending all parts at all times.
I don't see how they could have done much better than what they did.
They also had their dragons doing close air support and looking out for the other dragons.
So I feel like they mounted a pretty competent and respectful defense.
Do you know what castles are meant to be?
Yeah, they're for also cavalry.
When is when is it preferable to use cavalry in open warfare?
3% of the time.
No.
Battle of Agincourt.
Massive French cavalry charge got absolutely wiped out by English archers.
There are many situations.
No, there are many situations when cavalry is a terrible idea.
And the situation when they're using Game of Thrones is most definitely one of them.
Well, the dead didn't have archers, though, so it's not Agincourt.
No, no, no.
But see the other situation, cavalry primarily is used for shock tactics,
hopefully to try and break up a unit formation and you want to get them to flee.
If they don't flee and they saw the cavalry, the cavalry will be dead.
And so after the first impact, if the infantry isn't breaking up,
the cavalry needs to retreat.
Otherwise, they're going to get mowed down.
Now, with an army of the dead, do they retreat?
That I'm aware of.
No, the army of the dead don't retreat.
And they were also outnumbered as well.
The other time when you can use cavalry to just really mow down infantry
is if you are outnumbering them in a large measure, you have a lot more cavalry.
But even then, that's not a guaranteed thing.
It always needs to be used with the right reason and consideration and stuff like that.
But in regards to the Game of Thrones situation, the cavalry was outnumbered
and the undead won't retreat.
And so sending them in is utter and complete suicide,
especially looking at it from the historical lens of what cavalry is meant to do
and when they're meant to be employed.
And Shad, are there different kinds of cavalry?
Oh, yeah, light cavalry, heavy cavalry and stuff like that.
And what's interesting about the Game of Thrones thing,
technically, the Dothraki are light cavalry.
And so that is like to use light cavalry in a heavy frontal assault charge
into infantry like that is absolutely just completely retarded
because they're not wearing heavy armor to survive.
The melee that they're running into, they don't have lances.
So there's no insta kill on the direct hit impact.
They are armed with like small sickles and stuff like that,
which means they can't strike anyone in front of their horse.
Okay, you can only strike people with these type of weapons on the sides of your horse,
which means you can't remove or attack anyone in front of you.
And so you're just presenting your horse to be killed in that way.
You might be underestimating the skill of these guys
who have been kicking so much ass in the show.
So so they're superhumans.
And they they were dominating an ethos.
Probably because they were being used in the right way,
as light cavalry should be skirmishing,
harrying around the edges and stuff like that.
There was also a lot of mounted archers with the Dothraki, if I recall.
And again, just like the Mongolians historically,
like cavalry, you run around it.
And like, if you look at history,
there were actually some interesting engagements
between the Mongolians and Eastern Europeans.
You can kind of call them knights, but not like that.
Anyway, armored, you know, European, very medieval kind of combatants.
And they got absolutely mowed down by the Mongolians
because Mongolians were employing their light cavalry to just perfect,
you know, just in a perfect amount.
And it was basically running around them,
pinging them from a distance, not running into heavily armored units.
I mean, the only the only weakness of the Mongols historically
is if they'd ever run across real European knights.
I mean, there's no way in hell
they could have gone up toe to toe with like Richard the Lionheart.
The Mongolians trashed the Europeans when they were talking about
mounted, you know, units whenever they engaged.
They won like if you're looking at the from the medieval technological standpoint.
Also, have you ever seen a have you ever seen a picture
of the Mongolian empire and how far west?
Yeah, they went into Russia.
They were they were past Russia.
They were almost Constantinople.
I mean, they were they were pretty far west.
And they didn't conquer anywhere where they had true knights.
They were in France or Germany.
No, you would call them true.
Well, hang on.
How do you define true knights?
Are you talking about heavily armored cavalry?
Because the Mongolians did defeat the Mongolians did defeat heavily armored cavalry.
Plant sword and Mongolians did defeat heavily armored cavalry.
It's historical.
It's it happened.
Were they knights?
What how do you define knights?
You have to have the equipment and you also have to have a code of chivalry.
How do you define the code of chivalry?
It's the code of chivalry.
It's just like the code of conduct that they all follow.
I mean, it's the name that makes them who they are.
Is there more?
I mean, do you think that every kingdom had the same code of chivalry for every,
you know, knight group that they had?
Why are you like conflating?
Why are you conflating like all of Europe as though it's the same?
Fring is actually completely right here.
Chivalry was a subjective subjective thing interpreted by the knights.
And its most accurate application is chivalry means the qualities that make a knight good at his job.
And it started with pure horsemanship because chivalry comes from the word chivalier.
And if you go back, it basically translates to horseman originally.
And so if you were good at horse riding or technically combative horse riding,
you were chivalrous in the original genesis of the word.
And as it evolved, it simply expanded to mean the qualities that made a knight good at his job.
And when you look, I made a whole video on this.
All right.
Like specialties.
And and when you go back and actually look at how chivalry was interpreted historically,
there are like there was never a codified unified thing that everyone followed.
And there were forms of chivalry that one person would call chivalrous.
And another group of people would think that's completely incorrect.
And their version of chivalry would outrightly contradict something.
Sorry about the kids in the background, by the way.
And so so the following chivalry is a very essential part of what defines a knight to be a
knight, but not necessarily means that they're going to be better at mounted combat than many
other people of the medieval period.
And the type, it doesn't make the type of mounted combat different from other heavily armored,
mounted warriors who were not knighted of the period.
And so when you're looking at heavy cavalry of the medieval period, the fact that one group
might be knighted and one group might not be won't change how effectively that you could employ them
in combat is my point.
Similarly, like the skill of the Dothraki, for instance, won't change that little sickle into
a lance.
Yes, that's correct.
I mean, the circle back, something you said stuck with me.
So you said that the code of chivalry was subjective.
So were the knights like some sort of postmodernist or something?
What?
Where's your connection?
I thought chivalry is supposed to be an objective code of conduct.
No, the big problem that you have is that you're assuming that all of Europe is like
the same and that they all believe the same things and all held the same code of conduct.
Europe is not like America.
It's a whole bunch of different countries.
Thank God.
Yeah, that's absolutely right.
I mean, when you look at the actual books written of chivalry, like there's one written by
Cretien de Trois.
And then there's like, again, I have all the references in my video and stuff like that.
They are trying to describe how they feel a knight should act, which is actually a direct
kind of point of reference to show that not every knight was behaving the way that they
felt they should.
Otherwise, there was no point in them even writing their books in the first place.
All right.
And so another one was by Raymond Lull.
Okay.
So chivalry meant many different things depending on how different areas, knights, and even
wards felt what made a good knight.
And if you did those if you perform those qualities that the individual wards or even
the individual knights felt made a knight good at their job, they were then chivalrous
by these individual definitions.
Okay, I think I got you.
So then do you still think they're postmodernists?
And I didn't realize there were different codes of chivalry.
I mean, that's not really something that pops up.
Well, I mean, did you did you really think that like British knights had the same code
as French knights and, you know, why would you think that though?
Yeah, that's a huge misconception.
There was no unified code of chivalry that everyone was forced to adhere to.
I mean, it sounds like you think that there was like some rule book on society, you know,
like a society rule book.
That's like you doing this, this, this, this.
I mean, that's what I thought.
Special knight moves.
So you're wrong on that one then, right?
I guess I was.
So what was it that made someone like say Richard the Lionheart or like some of the other
really, really good knights?
What was it that made them so good?
What was their secret?
Generally success.
I mean, what led to success?
What do you mean?
Like, like, you know, one of the most nice was William Marshall.
And he gained huge fame from winning many tournaments, you know, talk like Justin,
all that stuff.
But as to active service in large in large wars and stuff, he had some military service early on,
but not to the scale of say Richard the Lionheart.
And if you want to look at some of the things that certain kings who were lauded at being
very noble and chivalrous, some of the things that actually did in in warfare, by the romantic
view of chivalry, they would seem like massive villains.
Richard the Lionheart executed a few hundred prisoners or so, because Saladin was stalling
and didn't pay certain ransoms.
And so because the ransom weren't paid, yeah, he executed them all might not seem very chivalrous.
Knights and especially kings when it came to warfare were actually farm war pragmatists
than they were, you know, I shall not fight, you know, unfair grounds and stuff like that,
you know, they were warriors, first and foremost.
And they did adhere to the things that they felt were chivalrous, but and also generally
their direct society.
But kings more so than anyone else had the power to go against the grain and do whatever
the hell they wanted, because not many people are going to challenge them.
Did you know that Richard the Lionheart was gay?
Fun fact.
What was that, Rags?
King Richard the Lionheart was gay.
So it was Dumbledore, I think.
Can we can we go back to Game of Thrones and how terrible episode three was?
Hey, hey, we're Republican men.
What did you think about the Trebuchet's being at the front of the lines?
What do you think about that?
I think that gives you the maximum distance to bombard the enemy before they close with you.
And so that's the best place to put them.
How long does it take to reload a Trebuchet?
I would estimate around 30 seconds, somewhere around there.
30 seconds.
And how long does it take to readjust where a Trebuchet is being aimed at?
Like in terms of the the range because the range is determined by the counterweight.
And so the weights that you put in the counterweight on the Trebuchet.
And so if you are facing an army that's charging you
and that means their position is in a constant state of flux because they are charging you.
You're only going to get one shot of the Trebuchet
and so you have to reconfigure the whole setup to try and figure out
where the enemy is in already.
And by that time, the enemy will have engaged.
You do realize Trebuchet is rarely ever used by a defending army historically.
They were mostly always used by a besieging army.
Usually against fortifications, a castle.
The main reason why?
Castles don't move.
Well, I mean, I know that they were mostly used to bust walls,
but I guess they're pretty good at killing personnel though.
So in defense against an attacking army rarely ever used.
Okay.
And if you did use them, well, one, you would most definitely want to put them behind a
protective wall.
Otherwise, they're just destroyed.
I guess a good example would be the battle of
the battle of what minister where both the orcs were using trebuchets to try and break
sort of the castle defenses and they were using trebuchets against a giant army,
but they didn't put the trebuchets in the field because like you put them in the field,
then it's like a couple of minutes and then they're gone.
By the way, there were also chase and catapults in the long night.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
I have another whole video on catapults.
Catapults were not employed nearly to the level that people assume in medieval combat.
You know, the trebuchet meme, it truly is the more superior siege weapon.
And also just to your point about putting the trebuchets out in the front.
Yeah.
How far out in front of the walls was it?
Like only, was it 50 meters?
I don't think it was very far.
Because you can see the castle like in the frame as well.
Yeah, so the dead are afraid of fire.
So if you're putting the trebuchet, what, 50 meters in front of the castle walls
and the dead, how long would it take them to charge over 50 meters?
Probably like 10 seconds.
10 seconds?
50 meters.
Let's say 45 seconds.
I mean, that's pretty slow, man.
I think like 50 minutes.
With the length of time that it takes to reload.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Just one thing.
The zombies are very fast.
I want to clarify.
Yeah.
Yes.
And with the length of time it takes to reload a trebuchet,
and by the fact you would need to recalibrate it
so it would be shooting at a shorter distance
by removing things from the counterweight.
You wouldn't get an additional shot off by moving it forward by 50 meters.
The few seconds that you're gaining won't do a thing.
You would still get the same amount of shots from the trebuchet,
whether it's in front forward like that or behind the walls.
I mean, I guess the question, Republican, is like,
if you in the battle of, I keep referencing fantasy battles,
but like in the battle of Helm's Deep,
they didn't put like anything in front of the wall
because like the wall, they were going to reach the wall eventually.
So anybody that you put there is dead.
So the trebuchet couldn't stand on the terrain in front of me?
Well, yeah.
So are you leading me to believe that if it could stand there,
they would have put it there?
I mean, possibly.
You think they would have though?
Like, you really think that?
I mean, I don't know what the rules of the Lord of the Rings universe are.
What do you mean?
What do you mean the rules?
It doesn't matter.
They want to kill him.
I don't know if Tolkien was quite as versed in medieval things as
George's decision to put the trebuchets forward like that.
It was a show run because George is pretty well versed in medieval stuff.
For he's died.
He stays out in front of a man like that.
The other thing is the show runner just like totally did what they want.
Yes, yes, yes.
How do you get away with that once he publishes the book though?
Because there's no way they don't give a shit.
You think season eight is the first time they deviated from the books?
It's not.
I've never read the books, but I mean,
did you know, did you know, did you know that the show is ahead of the books right now?
So they've definitely deviated from the books then because the books don't exist.
But I imagine they still have an outline to work from and they're probably following it
because they know how dedicated Game of Thrones fans are to keeping.
Yeah, they figured that out really.
Oh, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Just start your argument was how would they get away with it?
They haven't got away with what they did do.
Like they haven't.
But everybody's really pissed off.
Everybody's really annoyed.
Yeah, like season eight is going to go down in the anals of history as some of the worst.
Possibly the worst media that ever fucking goes shattered to our TV screens.
If you guys think that's the worst thing that's ever happened,
I have to wonder if you guys have ever seen things like the Funky Phantom.
And in reference to how it started, it is the worst.
It is among the worst.
It is certainly internal relevance and significance in its popularity.
It is definitely the perspective, right?
Because it's the final season of a show that was widely regarded to be a very high quality.
And yet it's so amateurously written.
Like, I mean, you've already conceded the cavalry point.
I'm not sure why you're still arguing about the trebuchets.
And the Battle of Helm's Deep was happening that they would put the trebuchets in front of the wall.
Just from the things I mentioned, you would concede that putting the trebuchets forward
like that is just retarded.
Like, it's never done historically.
And the fact that they did in the show was just stupid.
I love you, Shadow.
But do we know with 100% certainty that trebuchets work the same way in Game of Thrones they work?
How would they work it in differently?
They have fantasy trebuchets.
They're showing us a trebuchet.
The assumption is...
Yeah, you know, you know trebuchets.
But like, gravity works the same way in Game of Thrones.
It was a counterweight trebuchet.
They showed it as a counterweight trebuchet with no deviation from the historical visions.
R2, the point that we're...
One of the big issues here is that you want to protect your siege equipment
for as long as you can so that they have enough time to continuously fire at the enemy.
It's not how it works.
It's what it does.
And it showed it, I assume...
I've not seen it.
It showed it doing the same thing that a trebuchet does.
That's how everyone knows it's a trebuchet.
And even in the show...
If we look at the assumptions we've made, I mean, obviously the dead,
they just make attacks.
They don't defend.
They have no castle.
So you can use your trebuchets.
You can sacrifice them if you want to.
What good would that do?
Or you could keep them behind the walls and use them multiple times.
I mean, even in the show, they only get one shot off before the dead overrun them, don't they?
I mean, in any battle, that would be considered a complete...
Imagine you had an M1 Abrams and it got blown up after firing one shot.
It's like, well, shit, that's like 20 million dollars down the drain.
And, Shad, I looked this up real quick.
Maybe you can confirm.
Someone asked, what is the rate of fire of a typical medieval counterweight trebuchet?
This gentleman says that the larger counterweight
has a record load time of 4 minutes and 20 seconds.
420.
That sounds about right.
That right.
So they get one shot, maybe.
Yeah, no, video games can help us contextualize this a bit better.
But 4 minutes and 20 seconds is an eternity.
In a battle.
Every second counts.
With a charging enemy, with the length of time it took for the dead to close the distance.
And it's funny, because out of all the mistakes they made in that show,
the fact that the trebuchets only got one shot off before the dead close the distance does sound
want to be one of the only accurate things, which just goes to emphasize a point even more.
That if you were going to use them, you would put them behind the bloody walls of your castle.
Shad, what about the putting your men outside of the castle walls?
Well, even that is stupid as well.
The amount of spare, like in my review, I said if they had any spare space inside the castle,
they should be filled up with, you know, those men.
And they have tons of space.
They had tons of space in there.
I was shocked at how much space was inside the castle after the dead actually got inside.
I couldn't believe it.
They should have loaded up that castle shoulder to shoulder with their soldiers,
obsidian tipped arrows, even fire arrows, whatever, as many as they could.
And then if they couldn't fit everyone in after they loaded it up as much as possible,
you wouldn't position your military in front of the castle.
You would put it to the flanks, the sides of the castle.
And get them, or sorry, you would get the army of the dead to hit the castle
forward front on, smack them against the walls,
and then you would close in with the infantry on the sides and flank them in that in.
And then if they start to actually focus on the infantry instead of the castle,
you would get the infantry to retreat, move around the castle,
get the dead to follow them, while the defenders on the walls of the castle would just
ping them off, okay?
And that's how you would work it.
And so the dead, they could, that would either force the army of the dead
to split their forces, to focus on the infantry in the castle at the same time,
or they would commit all their forces to attacking the castle or the infantry.
And if they're doing that, when the army of the dead is attacking the castle,
you get the infantry to smack them.
And then if the army of the dead is attacking the infantry,
you get the castle to smack them.
I do have one problem with that.
Like cavalry could come in handy in a situation like that once or twice.
Oh, absolutely.
Because as soon as you have, you know, the army of the dead engaged with something,
you then bring in the heavy cavalry to do a massive shock impact on their flanks, okay?
Because those are the positions in which they're not ready to receive an attack on,
and the cavalry would be employed to a much, much better degree.
But with the Dothraki, because they're light cavalry,
you don't send light cavalry into the ranks of your enemy, okay?
You use them to harry the enemy, because they got swords, you run up on the sides,
slash, and then withdraw, and then run in again, okay?
You don't charge in unless they're dedicated heavy cavalry.
There's one problem with the scenario you're painting, though,
and that's that they don't have enough provisions to maintain everybody within the fort.
So if they all get in the walls, then they're just gonna be starved out.
How many provisions did they have?
Did the army of the dead wait to starve them out?
Oh, but they could.
The night king could just be like, all these guys fucked up.
They're cut off.
They didn't.
Also, where are you drawing information that they didn't?
But also, where's your information that they didn't have enough provisions for the army?
You just moved a massive number of men to a single point in a short period of time.
Don't you think they would only do that if they had the supplies to do it, though?
Doesn't that make more sense?
No, here's the bigger fundamental problem.
They obviously have enough food for everybody there, because they're all there.
Like, what are you suggesting?
That when you put them outside, they don't have to eat and drink?
Like, they're just gonna step out of the boat.
No, I'm going to keep their supply lines open to the south, where you can import more food.
So why does that change if they're outside the walls?
Because if they're not, they don't have a supply line that they can't contain out of the walls
along the road.
Why would they just leave then?
But they can...
What's stopping them from leaving the castle?
So a couple of things, okay?
If the army of the dead didn't attack, that would have worked in their favor,
because they got two dragons that they can just go in, destroy them,
and hopefully draw out their dragon, then draw them back to the castle and take out the dragon.
But the fact...
I was annoyed that the dragons weren't used nearly to the level that they could have been,
because they were massively effective.
And, you know, you could say, oh, but the Night King and his glances and stuff like that is like,
yeah, that's very convenient to the plot.
He's only good at it when he needs to be and stuff like that.
But it's not necessarily the win-move for the army of the dead, so wait.
There wasn't really much indication in the show to say that they would wait.
But having said that, waiting is still a good strategy.
That's what the whole point of a siege is, is to starve them out.
But it almost seems like the army of the dead wouldn't have been doing that.
They were marching forward.
They wanted to penetrate deeper into Westeros, and to do that, they needed to get past Winterfell.
I didn't see much indication that they had that level of patience.
Well, yeah, because if the idea is that they could go around Winterfell,
then why even like battle them there?
Just like go around.
I mean, that would be an idea to draw them out of their court.
But surely it's not an idea to go around because they had to go through.
You see, when you have a castle, if you have the supplies and there seems to be plenty of
indication that they did, waiting actually goes in your favor because it gives you time to
rally more defenses.
Game of Thrones lore man here.
They want to kill Bran.
That's their main goal.
Bran is hidden inside the castle.
They're assaulting the castle to kill.
No, they're not going to wait whatsoever.
They're going to assault as soon as possible.
Well, there you go.
I mean, do we know for a fact that their main goal is brandy?
Because we know that was.
Yes, we do.
Yes.
The final scene where they all crowd around Bran while the Night King waits to execute himself.
That was their only goal.
They didn't care about anything else.
They were going to kill everything in their way.
But they just not attack the garden directly then.
Exactly.
You're just highlighting even more issues with this show.
Yeah, the gods would should actually be behind inside.
All they need to do is have the dragon do a suicide run.
I actually have another whole video on how Winterfell should look according to the books.
There you go.
Another deviation as well from the shows and the books.
All I'm looking for, R2, is that you'd agree that it's not very well written.
Episode three of season eight of Game of Thrones.
What do you think?
Yeah, I thought it was pretty well written.
Has Shadiversity changed your mind whatsoever?
I mean, he showed me that there are differences between real medieval war and Game of Thrones.
Can you tell me why those wouldn't apply to Game of Thrones?
Wow.
I mean, I mean, I don't think it necessarily makes a story bad because the story is primarily
about story arcs, which I guess you guys must not have watched a more recent video on story arcs.
Because the story arcs, but with a K. Yes, that video, right?
Sure.
I mean, so okay, I spelled arc wrong.
You got me on that.
But I already admitted that.
Hang on.
The combat, the fighting, these strong points of conflict,
they create and are an integral part of the story arc overall.
You just can't separate them.
They absolutely are because like-
They're a vehicle of storytelling rather than-
Yeah, and they're a faulty vehicle.
They're a flawed vehicle.
So imagine, I don't know, imagine that a story is like a car, or the story is, you know, like
beginning and end of a road.
And the car is like the vehicle for the story.
So the plot is like the chassis.
I don't know, the characters of the wheel.
Like, let's say the world is the wheels.
So every time you get something wrong, you basically slashing the tires of that car
and making it harder and harder to get to the end point.
Like in a smooth, good way.
Yeah, when it's bumpier, it starts to drag-
Specific characters though.
I mean, I actually thought-
No, no, no, everything, everything is part of it.
You can't compartmentalize it.
You can prioritize what you think is more important for sure.
But like, the world is really important, especially in speculative fiction.
If how you arrive at your theme or goal or purpose, whatever you're trying to achieve in a story,
if you arrive at that using means that are nonsensical, contradictory,
have plot holes in them, are inconsistent, then that is bad storytelling.
You just want the reward without putting in the work
and without making the effort to have it all make sense.
Like, what if you needed to have the good guys win in the Battle of Winterfell?
They were just about to lose, but then the fucking Marines arrive in their tanks
and their M16s and they blow away all of the undead and they save the castle.
Oh, we got our arc finished for the characters.
We won the battle.
We saved the day.
But how we got there was completely nonsensical.
I guess that would change all the Game of Thrones into a comedy.
Oh, yeah, a lot of people have been laughing at it for certain.
But there's a different way-
It would ruin the story.
Yeah.
Yeah, a world should abide by its own rules and its own internal logic.
Same thing with Star Wars and Warhammer and Mass Effect.
And every fictional world has a grounding in some set of rules that it follows.
That helps establish stakes.
That helps let the audience know that not literally everything is possible.
Even Harry Potter has rules.
And that is-
That's the big thing, right?
Is making sure that people know that not everything is possible.
There won't be any-
Well, then there's no stakes.
Stories, yeah, exactly.
Because stories are built on expectations to some extent.
And that means even if the story does something that you didn't expect,
it has a logical through line so that it would be reasonable for you to expect that.
Whereas it would be unreasonable for me to expect that if I were watching episode nine
that Palpatine wasn't dead and he's actually coming back and he's going to fight Rey
and that's going to be the end of the series.
I mean, I don't know what will happen in episode nine.
I don't think anyone does, but-
Yeah, we do.
I think we know what's going to happen.
I think we know exactly what's going to happen.
Yeah, the leaks have been extensive and ongoing to a degree I've never seen before.
Yeah, it's kind of unbelievable.
Yeah, it is legitimately interesting.
Do you think it's all just a big fakeout by Disney?
What do you mean by a fakeout?
What do you mean?
I mean, do you think they're just trying to get one over on the fans by letting people watch?
Can one of them make money?
I'm going to use my host powers here.
I feel like the conversation has reached a natural end.
I want to refocus the stream as to what it was originally intended to.
I appreciate the discussion with both Shattervesty and Remarkable Republican.
But I was going to say-
Wait, Mauler.
Yes.
Mauler, yes.
I don't know if you're going to dismiss him or so we can get along.
But you asked him the episode nine question.
I will do that.
Okay, Remarkable Republican.
Who do you think-
And I'm going to rephrase this question because I don't exactly know how you feel about Star Wars.
Who do you think is going to be the character that's treated the worst in terms of consistency
in episode nine?
Who do you think is the character that will fail to live up to who they are intrinsically
with what we understand about them in episode nine from what we understand?
And this is based on absolutely anything.
Who do you think?
Palpatine comes back.
It'll be him because-
Oh, shit.
We disqualified Palpatine.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
This was this poll.
We're keeping track.
We just want to see who gets it right.
So before we began, we didn't know that Palpatine was going to be in this one.
So we've disqualified Palpatine and I think Lando.
Yes.
Yeah, Lando was disqualified.
Just give us your top three, I guess, and then we'll be able to tell you sort of how it works out.
Well, I guess no matter what Ray does, it isn't really a surprise at this point because she
kind of just does whatever.
Finn has been super inconsistent.
I don't.
The Asian lady that everybody hated, they'll probably make her do something that makes no
sense again.
If Leia's in the movie at all, I mean, that wouldn't make sense.
I don't know if she's in a little bit.
Why would you want to describe her as the emotion or of the film?
Who do you think will be the one the street of the ways?
Go for it.
Worst.
Okay.
That I'm not going with Kylo Ren.
All right.
Because I think we just qualified Kylo Ren.
We disqualified him too.
You got to pick someone else.
Okay.
All right.
Poe Dameron.
All right.
That's fair.
There you go.
What's your reasoning for Poe Dameron out of curiosity?
I cannot choose Kylo or Palpatine, but also they just made him
in the last episode.
They kind of emasculated him.
So I don't know what he's going to do now, but it won't be something that you would expect
out of a fighter pilot.
It'll probably be something really dumb.
Yeah.
All right.
The Menar's about feelings or something.
Fair enough.
There you go.
Every person who comes on eFap and is considered a relatively full-time guest is given a chance
to answer this question.
So thank you for giving your input.
Is there anything else you'd like to say before you hop out?
Not really.
Just thanks for having me on.
I had fun talking to you guys.
Subscribe to my channel if you haven't already.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Remarkable Republican.
You can find him on YouTube.
He makes a lot of videos about Game of Thrones and assaulted other meteors.
It was good to meet you, mate.
I know it was a bit of a strange way to meet and everything.
I just enjoy a good, you know, healthy debate.
So sorry if I come off a bit aggressive at times, but I'm just like...
Excellent.
It was good to meet you, Chad.
Yeah, good to meet you too, mate.
Because it's just...
I don't mean to rush, just that we've got an intention with this stream.
So yeah.
Thanks for coming on, my good man.
And perhaps we shall see you in the distant future.
All right.
Well, have a good night, guys.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
See you around.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
I haven't had a headache that intense since the first time we covered Bob.
I enjoyed that immensely.
I love that.
Thank you very much, Chad, for coming on.
Thank you for saving us.
Hi.
So that was...
Yeah, hooray.
That was everything I thought it would be.
So we have like 40 minutes of wolf remaining, I believe.
Which means we're going to have to speed through some memes
and then I'll have to figure out how I'm going to work the rest of this, all right?
But until then, we're just going to look at memes
as little tangents as possible, people, okay?
I never tangent, so I don't have to worry about anything.
But all of you guys...
Oof, terrible.
The tangents are what the fun is about.
I don't know what you mean.
So we're going to start with...
Me and Rags did an efap mini that was like three hours, I think.
And I like this meme.
You are live, but we've not crannied the style of efap.
That one was great.
Love it.
Oh, shit.
I think we've done that one.
All right.
I'm going to be posting away here.
I think this is just something that exists and someone took a photo of it,
but Bigidius is on the scene.
He connected the G and the I.
He connected it, so now it's Bigidius.
I love it.
That's very good.
Good on you.
Excellent work.
All I want for Christmas is Jay to watch Lord of the Rings.
Jay, are you getting around to that or what?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'll get around to that.
One year.
Here, Rags.
I think you'll like this one.
Objectively good, Spooderman.
Oh, my God.
I thought that was his leg raised to the side for a second.
Yeah, my third leg.
I did too.
Total has indeed risen with the monthly thrust.
And, yeah, just, you know, again, if anyone doesn't know,
Total's video woke style is actually pretty good.
It's honestly not even that bad.
It's a shame he didn't really know it woke me.
So Rags are free.
He'll appreciate the shit out of this.
What'd you bring me?
I miss Jacob.
I want to see what he's slapping these days.
I don't care about these new shitty characters.
I want the old shitty characters.
Yeah, we've come to learn so much about Jacob.
So this is the battle, the endless battle of themes and objectivity, of course.
Oh, someone just reminded me.
I do have questions for Shad.
Unfortunately, I do not have time to share with him those questions.
He will address those, I imagine, on whatever the next stream he comes on.
Or once Wolf is gonna poop off sort of thing, we'll get Shad his questions, if that makes sense.
Okay, I'll try and hang around.
Jay, what do you have to say about this?
What do I have to say about...
There is no reason not to, Jay, get away from the rhino and put those jars down.
You have a problem.
At least, you know, I feel like you'll address-
This is how we met.
Yeah, I was gonna say, you'll probably take it more seriously when it's in meme form, so.
It shouldn't say, Jay, get away from that rhino.
It should say, whoever you are.
True.
Unless you have a name tag or something.
But yeah, this is-
I'm wondering who took this picture.
Obviously, it was Rags.
Obviously.
This is obviously addressing Arch's story in that 20 minutes that we had him and Sargon on.
But how, I think someone else got banned because of Arch with a profile that matched his name.
Wasn't that the story?
I guess the only person who could address that is probably Rags.
All right.
This is foreshadowing of what's gonna happen soon enough.
Rise of Skywall, it's less than a week away.
You know, you've converted me.
I did not want to see this piece of trash, but now-
Like seriously, I was like, train wreck, bring it on.
If you haven't seen some of the leaks for this thing, it is mad.
Have you seen the leak stream?
Yeah, yeah, like the leaks have just been getting me more and more excited for it.
It's like, this is just getting worse and worse, and it's gonna be glorious.
I cannot wait.
This is a good meme.
Is this an eFap meme or just like-
Well, I was gonna say how relevant this meme is considering everything wonderful.
Oh my god, I'm opening that link.
It works perfectly.
We never even got to talk about the Martian theocracy, or the gay butler, or Tywin.
Oh, I know.
Oh my god.
So many questions.
I'd love to poke his brain for an hour or two or three.
This is the problem.
A 12 hours is too small.
How are we supposed to fit a full podcast into 12 hours, I ask you.
I don't even know what this meme is exactly.
Play it at double speed.
Is that Ray trying to kill Baby Yoda?
I don't really know.
Something's going on here.
I don't know if the Baby Yoda's okay with it.
Ray seems to be downright aggressive, you know.
That's my interpretation.
I have not seen the film that this is from.
What is the film this is from?
It's Pixar, right?
Oh, yeah, this is Moana.
Moana.
I have not seen it.
You've not seen Moana?
If you have kids, you can't avoid seeing it.
Stop it, Jay.
You can't.
I thought Moana was fine.
Now, Shad likes to watch him alone by himself,
and he just uses having kids as cover.
Frozen is my favorite.
I don't know why I'm using the movie.
Frozen 2 was trash, I'm just saying.
Oh, shit.
I've heard that.
That controversial thing.
Or is that the normal thing?
I don't know.
I've heard it's not good.
I don't know exactly what this is, but like what game, I guess?
City of Heroes or something?
One of the few long men remaining in the universe,
Tonal created the long meant to counterbalance idiocracy.
They existed since the beginning of time,
but most were wiped out by the sheer stubbornness of idiots.
He's approximately 1.2 billion years old
and uses psychic powers to aid him in argumentation,
both defending good films such as Joker
and deconstructing bad films, The Last Jedi.
His nemesis changes from time to time,
at one point being the powerful Quentin
and at another being the charismatic Patrick.
Why are there lies?
Powerful and charismatic, really?
I don't know.
But none compared to the speed of Diabeto.
Mauler's two closest confidants are the very charismatic Dogger Rags.
See, that's accurate.
And the very enraged K9, the Dishonored Wolf.
Together, they have defeated many enemies
and even converted some into allies,
such as the quite kickable Jaxie,
who had once tried to slander the long man,
but was stopped by Rhino Milk
and now aids them in their quest to find good rat.
And then, I guess we have one for the Don.
The Don was once a normal man who enjoyed motorcycles.
But while his wife was on her deathbed,
she told him that he should try to smile more.
Upon her death, the Don set out to make the world a better place
by giving to charities, volunteering at homeless shelters,
and even overcame orphan love,
adopting many children into his home.
Not even the heartless Captain Marvel,
who stole his bike and jacket
after seriously injuring his hand could stop him.
Instead, this only reassured the Don,
that people like her needed to be balanced
by good men like himself.
After seeing the goodness that the Don was capable of,
Tonald had a meeting with Jeff, the Cosmic Chicken,
and they agreed that they should give Don
the angelic powers
so that he would be more effective
at making the world a better place.
So it was said,
blessed be the Don, and he was made into an angel.
Blessed by Tonald and the Cosmic Chicken.
Look at that, stunned into silence all of you.
I wonder what happened if the actor who played the Don
like watched D-Fap.
I know, right?
Just like totally lost.
Rise of Mauler?
Am I gonna have to kill Rey?
I'm not exactly against it, I'm just asking.
That would be a privilege, and you do wear a mask,
so you fit quite nicely in there.
That's a good one.
I guess you disagree.
Oh, massive Mauler and the gargantuan gay.
Fabricated fortification of fire.
I like that Tonald is Gandalf.
The holy beast.
I like that, I like what you're talking about.
Dumbledore.
What the hell, Gandalf?
What the fuck did that come from?
Helix.
Gandalf.
Uh, first Freudian and now this.
I like the alliteration on the, uh, you should all be like,
you know, instead of our barriers of blockage,
people say artificial everything.
It should be, it should be alliterating.
I think that's better.
God, um, when the moths tell you Efap is live while you're asleep,
how many other lies have I been told by the couch?
I have not seen Clone Wars, but I'm sure that's what that's from.
So this is, um, just, just your standard meme.
Brown table does feel that touching a book is sexual harassment.
Oh yeah.
Which means Captain Marvel is thinking of it.
Oh, this is like someone doing possibly an exam.
They decided to draw the long man on their book.
That was a full, that's a full name on there.
Yes.
I mean, well, what is this?
Probably several people with that name.
I don't know.
Eric Buchella.
Is that Eric Butz's like,
code name?
Eric Butz.
They were so bored with their exam.
They drew me twice.
Too long for me.
Yeah, Steve and I am spooked by, uh, the long...
Is that exam written in comic sense?
Possibly.
It is.
It is.
That's how you know it's a legit exam.
Commissar, Mueller.
I've got the Dawnbringer as a glove.
Very cool.
Commissar.
This is actually a detailed rendition of Shinobi, of all things.
Check it out.
Got the Jurassic Park belt defending what could be a velociraptor.
Very, very cool.
Good old Shinobi.
Shinobi.
This is, um, Mueller in anime form.
I believe there is a wolf version of this as well that I hopefully can get to.
Whoa.
That is very long, Steve.
The legendary Longoid.
I love the word Longoid.
It strikes terror to many of my enemies.
I get, um, so I don't know exactly what the context of this is.
I think it's plague creations is next animation.
But I'm the pope, or at least some kind.
I think it's a reference to Futurama.
I can't remember.
Um, Space Pope or something.
Is it Space Pope?
I think it might be Space Pope.
Oh yeah, actually.
That sounds about right.
Space Pope.
That's such a future.
Let me look at it.
Um, images.
No, Space Pope is closed, but it's the alligator, remember?
Ah, yes.
The reptilian.
Oh yeah.
The Garfish.
Did it find effects?
Yes.
Garfish are not reptiles though.
Do you have a fish?
Oh, Shad.
Oh, oh wait.
No, he's muted.
No, no, no, I'm here.
I'm just, I meet myself so there's not so much background noise.
All right, now help me out here.
Because before I saw him, I ate Garfish and they didn't even know what it was.
You know what Garfish is, right?
Oh yeah, totally.
That's cheating.
He's Australian.
I've never heard of him before.
He's from your fictional country too.
It doesn't count.
Yeah, it's a fictional animal for a fictional country.
No, no, no.
They're not as bad as the drop bears though.
So you've got to be extra.
Drop bears?
Yeah, what?
You've never heard of drop bears?
What is that?
I feel like they're playing us now.
Are they paratrooper bears?
Is that what that is?
No, no, no, no.
I'm dodging paratrooper bears, yeah.
Fringy, it's just bears.
There's more than koalas and they're our cousin to koalas,
but they have these massive claws, okay?
And they're actually, they, they're the form of attack or-
Oh Jesus.
That they let go of the trees and they jump down
and their claws, they just like, flay there.
They're praying.
What's wrong with your country?
Why are there so many whole-
Yeah, like there's a Wikipedia page and everything.
They're out there, man.
They have a wiki for Australia?
They're like, yeah.
No, like for the drop bears.
They're like the Snipes out here in America.
I don't know what they should make.
They should make like that.
Rags, they're exactly like the Snipes.
You have to be very-
Oh, dude, that-
The Snipes, dude, people-
You know how in like the, you know, 10 or 15 years ago,
you used to buy strategy guides for video games?
I feel like you need a strategy guide for this country
if you're a tourist.
Is it like Google drop bears?
The guy is like, do I be afraid or do I love?
Drop bears.
Oh, the drop bears are great.
You know that-
Oh, look, hang on.
The plot thickens.
There's a bigger rib.
Hang on.
This is real.
This is a real picture.
It's not a-
They're rescuing a bear from a tree.
Of course it's real.
It's not a photo of a giant.
I just saw that in a studio.
It's like a meme or some shit.
It's a drop bear.
Did you not pay attention?
It's a drop bear.
The bear couldn't get down from the tree by itself.
See, well, it could.
It was doing it there.
It just, you know, they couldn't crash around.
How did it get up if it couldn't get back down?
It is harder to climb down trees than it is.
It reminds me of like, you know, when you're a kid,
you climbed up a tree.
It's like, mom, I'm scared.
It's like, you got up there.
You're like, I don't know how to get down.
Help me.
Like, it is harder to climb down something
than it is to climb up.
Lies.
Yeah, I don't know that.
I was a big climber as a kid.
I still-
Time sometimes.
Pretty hardcore.
It's a lot easier to climb down the stairs
than it is to climb up.
Yeah, we'll try.
Depends how many likes you have.
Oh, anyway, I guess we should go to the next one.
I was just going to say, by the way, this koala-
Sorry, don't mean to drop.
I'll be right back, guys.
It's okay.
The first thing we posted for drop bears, Jay,
it just seems like a Sith Lord version of a koala.
Like if normal koalas were Jedi, these would be the Sith version.
The very, very real animal, yes.
Also, the bottom line of the Lord of the Rings style one,
or Harry Potter, I don't know, I said I just glanced at the cover
and now I have fucking AIDS.
Then that's a quote from Tywin Lannister.
Just wanted to make sure we got that.
Got him.
Say he's old again.
Say he's old again.
I dig.
Double dig, motherfucker.
Not so great debate.
Where it all began.
Kind of.
Sort of.
Not really.
But sort of.
I like this image.
Even through VR in there.
I look beautiful.
How do you think this was made?
Oh, that would have been drawn probably in paint.
I wonder if it's like like Photoshop,
or like a really good programmer.
They're like, Oh, paid.
Oh, okay.
It looks more like it's got shading and stuff.
So it can't be.
Well, you're the one who said paid.
Well, yeah, but the thing is, is like, I got betrayed.
Thanks, dickhead.
Yeah.
No, but the thing is, you can do some really good stuff in paint.
So I wouldn't take it as like an indictment against you.
I would like you to do a lot.
I don't know what to tell you.
I saw a video where someone did like a photo realistic drawing and paint.
Yeah, but that's, but that's why it's impressive because you,
because because of paint, like you wouldn't see a realistic drawing.
I go, Oh, that was probably not in paint.
That's why there's a, that's why I saw that video.
Is that a shad battling the Welsh dragon?
What's going on there?
Well, you've got a, you've got the Isle of Man in your eye.
I do.
Jay is looking to spank a rhino.
Fair enough.
That's, that's my daily routine.
I spank the rhino every day.
We got a McMuffin.
You're about to stick your finger up his butt.
Again.
Well, that's how I know.
Look all that rhino squirting something.
Oh my God.
I always make the rhino squirt.
Apparently you're milking them.
The spider saw all of this.
Is that an angel McMuffin?
Oh, this was, so the context was this was how people see baller who like don't like my stuff.
I don't like the women.
This one.
I mean, what can you say?
Right?
What can you say about this?
We are content parasites.
Terrified.
You might even say that Efab is like the tracing paper of the art world.
Do they know about that?
Oh, I get it.
Moving on.
He has a Pikachu toy.
Wait, before I say something, do they know about that or not?
Moving on.
There's a Pikachu toy.
Look how adorable that is.
You know, I just, I just want to mention.
That is adorable.
Sometimes you're not what, how did I phrase it before?
I wonder.
Also, that is portion two complete.
We're on to portion three of the Efab memes.
Why do you serve your Efab memes in portion?
Because Jay, your wife, we don't, we don't, be careful.
You do not get addicted to me.
Look at this crap.
I just want fishy chips now.
Look at this crap.
What the fuck?
We watched it.
We watched a terrible, horrible, awful TLJ video,
and they had these weird graphs that don't make any sense.
Try to explain the balance of the board.
Remember what I said?
She goes to the mirror and just goes, lol, no parents.
Oh, right.
I just want to, you know, just just so everyone's clear.
You know, maybe it's not capitalizing on your criticizing shitty takes.
Just so, you know, 100 percent, I just think it's a general knowledge,
general thing that we should be reviewing a piece of media like,
you know, Star Wars or something would be capitalizing on Star Wars.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Phrasing paper.
If you were around 12 hours ago, you'd know that this is representative of the video we
watched where the defense of the TLJ movie is quite intense.
They draw lots of formulas and tisms all over the place.
Oh, we got another vision of...
What's the meme there?
Why is it mood face?
That's the icon of the guy.
We shall go onto the end.
We shall fight in France.
We shall fight on the seas and the oceans.
We shall fight with the growing confidence and growing strength in the air.
We shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be.
Winston, what the fuck are you doing resisting the Nazis?
Oh, you want to read it?
Go ahead.
Yeah, I'll read it.
Winston, what the fuck are you doing resisting the Nazis?
It's pointless if they'll rise up again if we defeat them.
There's no point in delaying the inevitable.
Oh, shit, fam, you're right.
There's no point.
They'll just rise up again, break out the swastikas, boys, they're becoming Nazis.
Yeah, for context, the argument was that what's the point in reestablishing the Jedi
when the Sith are just going to eventually win?
Oh, so just give up.
What?
All right.
Basically, yeah.
That's just, that's not an argument, really, for Star Wars, that's an argument.
Shut up, J, Jabs giving.
Jabs giving.
Well, that was the, that was the fucking thumbnail from Wolfstream, wasn't it?
It was.
I had to show it on YouTube.
So this was me being like, you can't present an opposing opinion.
So instead, I'm going to drop a pamphlet with an opposing opinion.
I'll be like, oh, look, a pamphlet.
It's got nothing to do with me.
But why don't you open it and read what's inside?
I'm going to go over here now.
I like that I'm long in this rendition, too.
Oh, god, another one.
I didn't realize how many we had of these.
Look at this.
I like how they're all slightly different.
They're increasing with quality every time.
True.
Jib jab.
Wow.
That's taken.
Are they still around?
The jab jabs?
Jib jab.
I don't know.
Jib jab.
Jib jab.
Official site.
Oh, fucking hell.
Look at this fresh meme.
They are still around.
Jib jabs around.
Rags, look at your fresh meme.
They come to life.
Well, they say, like, Luke threw his lightsaber.
So that means it's completely consistent.
Rags is like throwing something in the lid.
They're throwing a live grenade.
It's the same thing.
Which is odd.
I have the context.
Oh, does someone actually make that argument
where he threw it in the OT?
That means it's consistent.
Yes.
What do you mean this doesn't do that?
Everyone fucking says that who loves TLK.
I've never seen that in a video before.
I've seen it do me nice.
I just love the visual rendition
of someone throwing a grenade at a smiling child.
He thinks he's candy.
Candy apple.
That sort of thing.
So I'm in a game, apparently.
I don't know which one this is, but I like it.
Oh my god.
I have a large axe.
This is, I guess, what it's like trying to cover movie pop videos.
You with the axe.
I think that's from DC Heroes Online.
I think so too, actually.
What an obscure reference.
That is, this Indiana Jones photo shot absurdly good.
It really is.
Look at the gas mask.
Great.
He's holding a copy of Joker, too.
Oh, shit.
I didn't even notice the gas mask.
Yeah.
Oh, it's a joke.
Cooked carrots, man.
Fuck them.
Oh, shit.
Another fresh meme.
So tonaled referenced liquid heat.
I'm not sure what that is.
I think Gollum was killed by liquid.
You can cook carrots with liquid heat.
I don't, I don't.
How did this happen?
I think I got this from our actual chat.
What does it mean?
That's just something I found on Twitter.
Wonderful.
And what does it mean?
Well, what does it mean?
I don't know.
It doesn't matter how much the sequels will try.
They'll never surpass the love.
Oh, my God.
So what actually did it.
They weren't.
This is alien isolation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tonaled hiding from the steamed carrot.
Yeah.
He says cooked carrots are terrible.
He hates carrots.
And I was wrong.
They're fine.
I like cook carrots are fine.
I don't like them raw at all.
I hate cooked.
They're fine.
I don't like them raw either.
I think you have to cook them.
You guys are weird.
You're from literally a make believe country.
Where are we going next?
Oh, after four hours of cinema Roberto, he's a sad long man.
Oh, crap.
Oh, we win.
That's okay.
I thought Friggy was upset that I was upset in this picture.
I am a little bit upset.
That makes me sad.
Yeah.
This is sad man bad.
This is another attempt at renditioning tonaled ongoing war with cooked carrots.
That's a weird one.
Oh, hey, look at this.
Combo of old memes and well,
I can't hear it in Kylo Ren's voice too.
It's going to be okay.
It hurt.
Oh, we looked at that one.
This was this is representative of how many straw
men he totally destroyed in his video.
It was great.
There were several arguments, including but not limited to.
I wanted Luke to be super Gary Stu man and destroy everything.
Don't you see person?
That's not good.
That is not good.
And yet he argued at one point that what people wanted was for Snoke to
randomly just start reading out a Wikipedia page about his history.
You know those.
How many people have you guys met who absolutely have those arguments?
I'm just racking my mind because there are so many.
Yeah, I had to put a thing not here.
Poe mutes layer then thing here.
Therefore, post summon things which led to unnecessary death.
Oh man bad.
That's how it works.
I guess there's nothing else to consider.
Oh man bad.
No, he saved the entire fleet.
Anyway, Oh, check it out.
So you guys have seen fuck.
What's the name of this one?
This is Pixar as well, right?
Coco Coco.
Yeah.
I love Coco.
Oh, so good.
That is a good one.
Donald's playing me a song.
He is.
And look who else is in attendance.
Yay.
How wonderful.
Oh, I'm not 100% sure what's going on here for me.
You want to figure this out?
I don't know.
Um, I have no idea.
Rags is screaming.
I am screaming.
Fringy is trying to hold the floor in some way.
Jumping up in the air.
I don't know.
It looks like I'm a woman as well.
No, you're the plague doctor SCP.
That's the SCP logo on the wall.
Okay.
I think you are right.
Okay.
I suppose that makes sense.
All right.
This is some fan art of me.
That's pretty damn cool.
I have to put this in the fan art section at some point.
Oh, that's that's neat.
That's really cool.
I like the the gas mask portions are now exhausts.
Assassin's spring.
Who do you think is the person who's saying fuck?
It's too small to be Bob.
Looks like you're groin.
Oh, your groin is just saying fuck.
Well, yeah, for some reason, my hey, my groin is always telling.
So that that makes sense.
This is a wolf commenting that he seemed to be wearing a dress.
Han Solo just couldn't fucking accept what a piece of shit.
And so he was killed for his bigotry as is appropriate.
This is my mother made of knives falling on me and giving me scars.
My knife mom and your baby Yoda.
Yes.
It makes sense.
racist.
And then we got, you know, that was a racist dog whistle.
I confirmed that wasn't a dog whistle.
And then Mark Brown says you can cook a carrot like a grenade and that upset tonals.
In terms of continuity, carrots.
Oh, my goodness.
What are we dealing with here?
I think so.
He said, like, you know, Luke sort of attacked Kyla while he was sleeping.
Did Luke do that to Vader?
The answer is yes.
Oh, look at Vader.
He's all happy having his little sleepy sleep.
I don't have cozy sleeps.
Yes, the epic music was playing.
And it like, you know, the battle is over in two seconds.
He just has a lightsaber in his head.
I was still playing and he's there like.
Rose Tico answering the call to adventure.
Oh, very cute.
How?
Wait, that's that's the Dora thing, right?
How many such and such is here?
And then she pauses for a second while you answer.
I actually don't know anything about Dora.
We got a no matter what comes through that gate, you'll stand your ground.
Let's look at the themes.
Whatever themes get brought up in videos.
We're always like, oh, God, here we go.
What do you think this is specifically?
What do we reckon?
Kylo is it none?
Is it like a play on the whole Kylo dress link dress thing?
Oh, why that a nun?
Why not a nun?
I said Vader would sweat after realizing he's made this
enemies that he kills more powerful than they could possibly imagine.
Frayed a big.
Waiting for toxic last Jedi haters to lash out on me.
Day one, day two, day seven thousand five hundred and sixty seven.
Well, I mean, he's patient.
I like the little poise by the door as well.
Like they're in cover.
More seconds are starting super chats.
YouTube, here's is truck one out of sixty four.
Good luck.
I don't think we've ever had a Mr. B meme, have we?
Maybe they're few and far between.
Oh, a surprise to be sure of a welcome one.
This is when we when we were told in the video that it's truly
George Lucas's fault that Luke was a coward.
Never get tired of those ones.
I I heard today, apparently, that I'm like George Lucas flat out
said that Palpatine wouldn't have been in his episode nine.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, that's what we already knew.
Like, yes, obviously.
But this was planned from the very start.
Kylo Ren.
Yeah.
When he said that Kylo was confused, but he still committed to the dark side lights,
I was like, hey, he was like, oh.
This is me saying that I was totally on board with seeing a scene
where Luke just slashed through a bunch of rebels for no reason.
I'm on board with this.
Context pending.
Oh, we actually went through that one.
All good.
What is this?
I stick my life on it.
Abe Lincoln about the monthly thrust.
I said I swore on Abraham Lincoln's grave that I did.
And I did.
I swear that I did.
You can trust me.
Oh, I guess this was.
I sent it as a Patreon message, so.
This is more like getting Googled.
Moller is gay.
Go pink.
Moller is short.
That's offensive.
Moller is the alien.
Oh, he's gay.
F scene didn't kill himself.
Moller is the alien.
F scene didn't kill himself.
I like these.
These are really.
What are the Google suggestions if you type in Moller?
I don't.
Is it terrible?
Why don't someone pull up a Google tab?
Let's find out.
I don't want it online.
Twitter.
My mother falling on me made of knives.
Um, I yeah, none have to do.
Got the Isle of Man is good rat.
I think I may have shown this one already, but it's important to repeat that it is good rat.
Um, it seems I think this is a combo of something that exists already,
but is repurpose.
You got this is his last.
That is his last.
He's doing his job.
Then he goes.
That's why I'll become that pillar is the number one hero.
The symbol of peace.
Is there any reason why I'm just there randomly?
Because you're on the team for me, whether or not it's pretty good or not.
I mean, I'm not there, but yeah, that's what I mean.
Google it.
I Googled it.
Oh yeah.
He said the layer would survive and he Googled it.
Layer would have said we Googled the exact same thing that he did.
And he left out some important information.
I'm not sure what to make of this one.
I guess Jack Saint is back and Rags is preparing with a knife.
I don't know.
What's Jack been doing?
I don't know.
He made a video about Skylar white recently.
I saw that.
You haven't seen Breaking Bad.
It's me as an animu grill.
Wow.
That's terrible.
I think it's wonderful and that you're a dirty liar.
I'm a clean liar.
Okay, fine.
You're a clean liar.
I love it.
On the laptop that is.
See, this is ridiculous.
Why would I fear chat?
Some of these memes, I don't even understand.
Yeah, because it knows your secrets.
You know, I understand this one though.
He took the kids, he took his keys.
He's gonna get the back.
Directed by Liam Neeson.
The sod.
Kanye.
Oh, Liam Neeson starring Kanye Rees.
It's a stod.
Stared.
It's a stare.
Man, my brain.
Stared by Kanye Rees.
My brain is trying to fill in the correct things.
IGN, fuck you, Karen.
Jay, translate this.
Why am I...
I don't know.
No, wait, Jay?
That doesn't sound like the truth, Jay.
No, this one generally has me stumped.
What have you said about...
I like cheese.
I like cheese.
Explain.
Chat wouldn't just make this up.
Yeah, they wouldn't do that.
Maybe that's supposed to be ice cream, not shit.
Maybe, because I like cheese and I like ice cream.
Is this too much shit?
Maybe that shit used to be cheese.
Yeah, sounds like lies to me.
I think this last selection is goodbye memes.
I think we have a couple of Lord of the Rings ones.
I think I have a couple of meme videos of Lord of the Rings related
and I can't show them because of copyrightisms,
but we will get to them.
That's a good meme.
I think this is going to be an emote in the Discord server.
I'm okay with that.
Then we've got the many iterations.
You bow to no one.
Oh, even Hugh Catman's there.
It's an actual picture of Hugh Catman too.
Oh, this is the one I was talking about.
See, I got a wolf version.
The greatest and weird.
The greatest and weird.
Pizza and weird grapes up there.
I could seriously go for pizza right now.
Let's order a pizza.
I was kind of thinking about ordering a pizza tonight.
I don't know.
Which spoon one is this?
Sorry, which one?
That is spoon and two.
That's spoon and two.
So the good one.
As long as it's not spoon and three.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's not the amazing spoon and two.
That's the thing.
What is this originally?
I don't know.
I like how regs is always a woman in these.
I like how new fap chat is a person.
I'm glad that the Don attended my funeral.
Absolutely.
Oh my God, it's 7 30 a.m. for me.
I'm going to have to hop out soon when the when the stores open to go to the store.
To buy cheese.
To buy cheese and poop.
What is the fucking difference?
Jay, really?
Yeah, Jay.
Jay Monary.
Someone could actually just like manufacture a thing like that and make it
just by sending in a meme that people will assume there's more context for.
I think is he supposed to be a character in this, or is that just a logo that is
attached to the image?
I don't know.
I guess everybody's saying goodbye is a fat.
All right, I follow.
Oh, hey, I know this one.
This is fast and the furious.
Yes.
Oh, this is good.
Like the blare of being regs.
It works for sense of depth.
Yeah, depth of field.
Yeah, that's really this is a really well put together one.
This is really great.
I don't like this one.
Did any of you guys get the where the meme three, two ones back was from?
The anime thing?
The anime one.
No, Neon Genesis Evangelion.
Oh, I had no idea.
And we got some some original drawings coming up.
That's a good one.
Got a stick.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Is this is the stick of staff?
Is it a reference to Gandalf?
Or is it something else?
Might just be a walking stick since I didn't want to hike.
Do you have like a stick at home that you really cherish?
That kind of looks like a family stick or I can't.
Is that your family stick?
Well, is that your family?
Well, if you have a family stick, be honest.
Every family has every family has a stick.
I've got my family stick right here.
Family stick.
No, I can't say.
Maybe it's a dog.
It's like a family.
Family has a stick.
Every every family has a stick.
This is a reference to my DS2 series.
I believe this.
That's what the person posting it said on Twitter.
It's quite nice.
Oh, this is the guy.
He drew the twizm wizard.
Oh, wow.
That was a cool, pretty sweet drawing.
I've got something dripping off my mask.
I assume it's Estus because that's all it could be.
And it's probably tears.
No, Estus.
I got.
Oh, I've got coming out.
All right.
I've got some kind of coming out of my eyes.
It's just an allergic reaction coming out of your eyes.
Yeah, it's you know, it happens.
Are there any dogs that are allergic to dogs?
Yes.
I don't let me Google it.
It's a sweet bit of fan art as well.
The many faces of the captain looks very aggressive.
I think he's just hungry.
He's mad at me for not feeding him.
I guess feed Mr.
Catman.
I think you've seen a lot of these before because they're through Twitter.
I just want to make sure you saw him.
Yeah, he's cool.
Oh, you count as a mini wolf.
Well, that's a normal sized cat.
Nope.
Mini wolf.
I like this pizza pizza just showed up everywhere.
It's great.
If for the pizza, I demanded.
I like this one a lot.
It says goodbye all by Edwards.
The whole family and words.
Look at look at everyone.
There's your shad with a sword.
That's bullshit for me.
Smile.
Stuckman.
Even stuckman.
There's rhino.
Jay Longbone.
Why would Stuckman be here?
No, no, no, I think that's the joke with Southpaw.
He looks like Kristoffman.
Because of course, Kristoffman, two robot heads on the
just above rags ear and then just to those Doomcock.
Is it?
Oh, the other one.
Yeah, you can be right.
Okay, because that's Doomcock.
Yes, it looks like these two robot heads.
Those are pretty easily manufactured robots, right?
Let me look.
What I'm getting most out of this image is that mauler is
just really tall.
Everyone else is really, really small.
I mean, it's the curse of the long man.
What can I say?
I don't know if you've seen this or not.
This is one of Baywinds.
I have not.
But I like it.
Or in the blind forest in a pizza keychain.
Yeah, out in the mountains.
What's that thing to my left?
Maybe bonfire.
Maybe.
I like it.
That's a good one.
Yeah, that's a nice one.
It's really nice.
Look at that.
That's lovely.
That's so good.
That is really good.
That landscape is really great.
Yeah.
And this one is also from Twitter.
I think you've seen this already as well.
I have not.
Oh, that's cool.
Farewell on a wolf.
A sheep in wolf's clothing.
Or a wolf in wolf's clothing.
Either way.
Or a dude in wolf's clothing.
Yeah, all right.
Yeah.
Thanks, guys.
Fuck you, Australian guy.
He was absolutely nothing like a sheep, so.
Yeah, but it's a...
Whatever, all right.
But yeah, that's it for the memes, I believe.
Let me check.
I've got a few more that are cycling in, but it's kind of
tough for me to get them without delaying for a while.
How much time have you got, Wolf?
I got to go like now because I got to be up in five hours to go.
In that case, what I'm going to do is begin reading the super
chats once you've left.
What I'm going to do is open a new notepad and pile every
single thing that addresses you into it.
And then when we record, and this could be a while, but it'll
happen, when we record the remaining copyright related
memes, I will read out everything that's addressed to
you and show you any memes that address to you in that
potential privatized recording thing.
That will be released as a mini.
That, does that, how does that work?
Yeah, that works.
I'll be pretty busy for probably the rest of the
though, so we might not be able to record it until
late this month or early January.
Early January.
There you go, guys.
Besides, I'm going to need time to edit it anyway because of
copytisms.
But, yeah, that about seals the deal for your last effap.
I don't know.
Like I said, people who have sent a lot of messages in
super chats, you will receive and respond to them.
It's going to be, I'm just going to try and find a way to
make sure I catalog everything so it's easier for Wolf to
sort of see and respond to them, like I said.
But other than that, I suppose it's it's been a wonderful
journey.
We're up to what?
This is a 65, right?
You almost hit order 66, Wolf.
You almost there.
I had to bail out because, you know, I got to see tonal's
first good video.
I know.
It's like this is the best effect to end on because we
get tonal being good.
We get TLJ defenders still being horrible.
And then we got a ton of memes that had a bunch of
callbacks to all names.
It's like the best callback episode.
Absolutely.
It's been fucking great.
And they'll all be available soon enough once I don't
know when I'm going to sleep.
Sleeping is gay.
We're never going to do it.
It's fine.
But, yeah, it's effap would not be the same without you.
So thank you so much for being with me and rags up to
this point, as well as the other gentlemen who have been
on guests with you as well.
It's been very fun as well as very meaningful.
We've made something really great together and it
wouldn't be the same without you.
Yeah, it's been fun.
And I do want to say because people thought this.
I'm not stopping talking to all the effap related
tisms and people like I'm just not going to be on
Twitter or YouTube anymore.
I'm just cutting those out because I don't feel like
it's good for me mentally.
I'm not going to stop talking to mauler rags for J.
Shad and all them.
I'm still, you know, I'm not cutting my friends out of
my life.
Yeah, we're going to watch Avatar, right?
Yeah.
And the Mandalorian.
No, like, honestly, it gets really, really bad.
I think, you know, no, no, listen, you'll, you'll enjoy
how bad it is.
This isn't making me one watch.
You will enjoy how bad it is just like you'll enjoy
how terrible episode nine is.
No, the only thing I'm going to enjoy is ranting about
it with other much as I do.
Hey, well, you can do that.
We can do that.
Me and Rags do it weekly with freaky and battle.
We all just fucking rants about how terrible is gone.
We do really just deteriorated so much.
Yeah, I'll just before I go, I'll say I started doing
YouTube when I was teen.
So it's been eight years now across multiple different
channels.
And yeah, I feel like I just it.
Some people can do it.
Some people can't.
I'm clearly one of the people that can't.
And I need to cut out things from my life that are good
for me mentally.
So, you know, it's it's been fun.
Really like all the fun memories I've had.
And, you know, do a nefap has been really fun too.
But time to start doing something a little bit
healthier for me.
Absolutely.
And we've loved the time that you're given.
And you can tell from chat you got you got a lot of love
there too.
Thank you so much for everything.
And we're all hoping that you get you get what you're
looking for with whatever you choose to do next.
And obviously, this isn't goodbye from us because we're
all going to hang out with you still.
I'm going to make you make you watch more Buffy and Angel
because it's great.
Yeah, I still got video game tisms to play and video or
movies and shit to watch.
So I don't know if there's anything else anyone wants
to say or.
Oh, I don't know what I could say that hasn't already
been said.
After all, we'll be talking.
We're not we're not going to.
Yeah, we will be chatting.
Yeah, we'll still be sliding into the DMS.
Yeah, we're always going to be around.
Yeah, absolutely.
We'll make sure to have chats and shits about what we've
been seeing and what we've been doing.
Play games or watch something together.
Regular like the Mandalorian.
Oh, yeah, I got to get going.
I got away in five hours again.
So it's been a while.
Been a wonderful 64, 65 episodes.
That makes sense.
What a journey.
One and a half years just under that.
I think I don't even know anymore.
It's been a while.
It's been fun.
And I guess from all of Efap, we love you.
You big tism and we'll catch you around.
Yeah.
Hope you guys all have continued success in everything you do
except for you, Fringy, because you haven't been doing much
of anything.
Hold on.
I say this endearingly because I want him to go back to doing
things because he's a good.
There might be there might be something for Christmas.
It might be something for Christmas.
Oh, my gosh, Bells, Fringy smells.
Fringy's coming back.
There we go.
Right now.
All right.
Someone please make it any fact.
Jingle Bells cover.
Yeah, that'd be really helpful.
Well, I'll see you guys.
All right.
See you around.
Toodle Pip.
Cheerio.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Goodbye, my Edward.
Yeah.
It feels weird happening on a Christmasy episode,
as in the snow falling in the background.
It's like, okay.
Snow.
I like how people are now saying don't let wolf down.
Fringy, you made a problem.
That is a fucking expectation.
All right.
So I've got a whole bunch of extra memes, like 20,
that are going to get transferred and sorted out,
but I'm not doing any more memes for this stream.
We have five hours and 50 minutes remaining.
I am going to read super chats,
and I'm going to open up a notepad
and save every single one that's directed at Wolf.
And I'm going to skip over them,
instead of reading them out, because it'll make me.
That's going to be quite a few.
It is.
A lot of them are directed at Wolf,
but that's what I'm trying to say is,
all the people who've made videos,
who are concerned they weren't shown on this stream,
if they had a hint of copyright,
I was basically adamant and not showing them
to make sure the stream didn't go down.
I've got, someone just said you skipped the scroll of,
there's a meme I went over, but it was really long,
so I've kept it for a future meme.
We will read it, no worries.
Future memes will all be, like I said,
I'm just going to basically collect everything
into that recording.
Once me and Rags and Wolf can set up a time,
we'll make an eFap mini.
We will check out memes that are relevant,
that he's missed.
We will look at videos,
and I'll read to him all of the Super Chats
that are directed for him, and we will release it.
But until we hit that 12 hour-ish cap,
I am now going to start reading Super Chats.
Obviously, Fringy, Jay, Shad, even Rags,
if any of you feel that you may have hit your cap,
you're welcome to bow out.
I can stay for a bit longer.
You mentioned that there were questions, though,
yes, actually, yes.
I want to address those,
because I like questions,
and I don't want anyone to miss out.
And anyone else?
See, I've got to go now,
but I might be able to hop back in later today
if you guys are still going.
It's possible.
I will say ToodlyPep for now.
ToodlyPep, sir.
ToodlyToodles.
And Fringy, anything you want to say,
or are you good?
All right.
Okay, then.
He's gone off to work on that video,
he's promised everyone.
Ah, yeah, he doesn't want to let him down.
So I'm looking at my, like, I post,
it's very untidy.
I post a lot of the questions
I have for people all in the same section.
I try and begin them with the name
that they're relevant to,
and I've got one for Rags that I hadn't read.
So, Rags, you ready for this?
Uh, yes.
This says, Rags, mayo blast my salami socket,
it's deli time and the first slice is free.
All right, so two things.
One, that wasn't a question.
It's more of a comment, really.
How could I have it so that this wasn't read to you?
How could I possibly do that?
He made Fringy leave.
Oh, no, Fringy.
He said salami socket.
Fringy, I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry.
That's the one wouldn't raise to mayo blast.
I should have known.
I should have known.
That sounds like a great time.
Yeah, maybe one of these days.
Don't count it out.
I've got another three for you.
Again, not necessarily questions,
but things I guess I felt
I should read out to you from people.
So you got Rags, loving the dog bites vids.
Oh, thanks.
Thanks.
I've got some planned.
This the last.
I just always seem to be busy with this and that.
And then I get tired and sleep and hopefully soon.
Hopefully soon I got some planned out
and I got new thumbnail stuff made.
So that'll kind of help as well.
Yeah, there you go.
This one says Rags.
What is your opinion on breeders of the Nephilim Nephilim alpha?
Oh, I haven't played it.
Oh, well, there you go.
I don't play it.
But I'm thinking about
because I've got some I've got a bunch of reviews.
I'm probably going to have done fairly soon for exclusively games.
I'm thinking about actually making a review of breeders of Nephilim.
But I'm also thinking about doing a legit raid shadow legend
because it has been it has become kind of like an actual meme around the internet.
So I would be interested to really play it and kind of see what's up with it.
Oh, hey, yeah, I'm back.
Sorry, my blue my my computer blue screen.
I know you're upset when I said salami socket.
You don't have to hide from me.
I get it.
Sorry, I would have missed that.
However, like I actually probably there's probably like a good time to hop off
because I need to like make dinner.
And also, if I'm going to make good on my my, you know, my Christmas promise,
then I need to hop off to write what I'm working on.
Catch you around.
I I I think it will be something that will be very unexpected.
But I think if it all pans out and I basically like put my head down for the next 10 days,
it'll be something real cool.
I hope.
Excellent.
Yeah, aren't you going to review cats and you're going to love it and tell us.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, two weeks.
Yeah, we can see that.
So we can that'll be our palate cleanser after episode nine.
Really, that's how that works.
Oh, finally.
Oh, episode nine is done.
Star Wars is over.
We can watch cats.
Oh, man, I totally forgot about that, but I'll have to put it on the watch list.
All right.
Catch you, gentlemen, later.
Well, yes.
All right, bye.
See you later, man.
See you later.
Hey, so next up for Rags and I feel like this is redundant, but I'll ask it anyway.
So Rags, you managed to get a copy of Breeders of Nephilim Alpha?
Can you give us a little review?
It's on Steam.
You don't need to like you don't need to suck someone off in a back alley to get a review
code for it.
All right.
It's on Steam.
And no, if anything, I click that as a meme so I can screenshot it and send to somebody.
But Wolf got it.
He made the tweet that I have not played Breeders of Nephilim.
And the the follow up was where can I find Wolf's books to buy?
Wolf is not currently you're not able to buy any of Wolf's books in any way, shape, or form
as of right now.
Moving on.
We've got to do where are the shad questions?
Okay.
And there's a few.
Let's get going.
Shad, why do you sound like Grandpa George from CATCF?
I intentionally do it to my voice so I sound more authoritative.
Oh, there you go.
That's a quick answer.
Effective.
You got to cultivate this voice.
There's a lot of practice gone into it.
Catapultivate is what we...
Trebuchetivate.
That's the superior version.
When I start doing David Attenborough's when you know I'm trying to be serious.
And here we see an Australian...
The catapult is one of the greatest weapons ever made.
Next one.
Hey Shad, weird spot to put this, but I'd love to see the Crouching Tiger,
Hidden Dragon, Zhao Long versus Shulian fight as a potential autopsy.
Shaolin.
Oh, that would be a long one.
But gee, that's a great fight scene.
Absolutely.
And a classic.
You know, I think I'd actually, I think I do need to put on my list because I kind of want to
hit some of the most iconic fight scenes in cinema and stuff.
The fight scene autopsy.
I was thinking of doing Wesley versus Enigo Montoya from Princess Bride.
But the thing is with Star Wars coming out soon, I was like,
Oh, I really...
Okay, I'm going to do Luke versus Vader before just because it coincides nicely.
So I'm trying to do that for this week, if I can get them done.
Hey Shad, if you're going to put your money on the choreography being good or bad in episode nine,
what would it be?
I've seen the trailer, right?
And from what we have seen in the trailer, it is garbage.
Like same-tier garbage as Jedi.
Like the telegraphing and the wide baseball back swings.
And it was just like one small shot.
Yet both Rey and Kylo, they're just as horrible as before.
It's like, it hurts myself.
So sorry.
Next up, Shad.
About the shish kebab, what if the gas tank was on your back and the tube that leads to
the torch fitted through your outfit, still a bad weapon?
I don't know.
I see.
Technically, it's just a flaming sword then.
The cable could certainly get in the way, especially with the amount of movement that
you put into certain sword moves and stuff.
The cord could get tangled quite considerably.
Sorry, it's hard to say.
It's hard to say.
I'd want to kind of test it out.
I actually do want to do a video on the Protosaber, and I have a very upset baby in the background.
Sorry, sorry.
Speaking of Protosaber.
Nothing, just throw a grenade at her.
Oh no, that might hit him.
No.
With pieces of shrapnel fly into Shad.
We can't have that.
Oh yeah, that's right.
He'll block it with his sword.
True, true.
I like that people sometimes highlight that.
How stupid Star Wars is already.
Look, they use swords.
Why are you talking about realism?
They use swords.
It's like, yeah, the swords are pretty fucking good when you have a Jedi behind it.
Yeah, man.
Clearly, that's working pretty well.
Someone with a gun gets the blast deflected into them.
They're on the floor bleeding out going,
you idiot, using a sword.
He got me, but still stupid.
Rags, what do I do when we're on questions for Shad, but he's currently busy.
Oh, I guess.
I'm still here kind of listening, but just trying to cut out some of the noise.
Do you want to carry on or?
We can continue, absolutely.
Very well.
Shad, thoughts on Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Trilogy.
Which trilogy?
Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn.
I'm unaware of it.
I don't think I've heard of it.
Yeah, unfortunately, I just copy these so I don't actually know anything more.
Sorrow trilogy?
Well, actually, the last part of the Sorrow trilogy is going to release in about a week.
So we're going to see how the Sorrow trilogy comes together.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm sorry.
All right.
Shad, in For Honor, the first unlocked Knight class
executes enemies by holding the blade and striking with the guard.
Is there any merit for that?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
That's called the Mordhau, or murder stroke.
Mordhau being German for murder stroke.
And yeah, absolutely.
It's a move used against armored opponents.
So if you've got a longsword and you're fighting someone who's wearing armor,
grabbing the sword by the blade and striking with the cross guard is one of the maneuvers you can
use which is more effective against armor than striking with the blade itself.
So it kind of turns it into a club.
So the answer is yes, absolutely.
Oh, Shad, thoughts on Anakin's move to cut off Dooku's arms or hands, I guess.
Yeah, it's an interesting one.
He kind of, again, you just have to put up with the glorious background track.
But that's what happens when you're a father.
But anyway, you guys can still hear me even.
Yep.
Yeah.
It depends.
It depends because he kind of holds Dooku's hands off to the side
and he brings his lightsaber down around and then up,
cutting his hands off at the wrist with this upward kind of sweep.
And Dooku wasn't really doing much with his lightsaber up to that point.
I think Anakin might have been completely open.
I need to look at it with a closer eye.
But I suspect it was a poorly executed bit of choreography because Dooku might have just
been able to sweep his lightsaber across Anakin and chop him in half.
And he might have just been standing there to take it.
So again, I need a seat to double check.
But that's what I remember from it.
Shad, I've not seen a take on the S-tok sword.
How would you rate it as far as capability and legi-le-legality?
Legality?
Lethality may be a misfidelity.
Oh, yeah, probably.
I'll say the S-tok is a very underappreciated and underused weapon and more.
I will say that.
Yeah, it's a more specific specialized weapon.
And there are some that didn't even have like a blade edge on them.
It's purely for thrusting.
And you could sometimes consider it the two-handed thruster.
Some might call it a two-handed rapier.
But rapiers generally have swept more iconic related to them.
The S-tok is a beastly weapon for what it is meant to do.
And that's a mistake that a lot of people do.
They generally try and gauge swords on universal application,
taking them outside of the specific context in which they were made and meant to be used for.
And so, I mean, the S-tok sucks at cutting, like, absolutely.
But as for its thrusting capacity, it's one of the most devastating thrusting swords ever made.
So, yeah, for what it's meant to do, it's a great weapon.
And I mean, this isn't necessarily connected,
but a part of this is also opinions on the S-2 spring steel as a material.
Unfortunately, I can't remember the qualities of S-2 spring steel,
because I've looked up several different qualities of steel for sword blades.
And there's a couple of different interesting ones that came up to the top of the list.
But it's been too long since I've reviewed my notes on it
that I just can't remember the names of each definition.
So I wouldn't be able to tell you off the top of my head.
Fair enough.
Oh, this one's interesting.
I don't know how this is going to go over.
So, Shad should call Matt Dillahunty on the atheist experience.
I believe this is in reference to whether belief is a choice.
Is that right, Rad?
Oh, that was a deep discussion we were having there.
It was.
It was great.
And something that I've been reflecting on since,
I haven't really come to any new conclusions or thoughts,
but it's certainly, you know, something got me thinking,
okay, you know, what is the nature of belief?
But I don't have anything new to really share on the matter.
I mean, I am a simple messenger.
I am completely innocent.
If there is nothing anyone wishes to add,
I shall move the F on, as a civil person would say.
Unfortunately, I don't know what they're referencing the atheist experience, was it?
He's a Colin show based out of Austin, Texas, I think.
Okay.
Shad, I'm a Mormon member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as well.
What do you think of the recent changes?
I think they're actually very pragmatic and good.
They-
What changes?
What changes for those of us who aren't on the inside?
They're just administrative changes.
And so, small things.
There are different auxiliaries and organizations in the church.
And so, these auxiliaries are like priesthood and young men.
So, there were two different priesthood quorums,
elders quorum and high priests,
and they're being combined into just the elders quorum.
And so, the thing that people need in the church that need to understand
is that none of this contradicts doctrine,
because there's a difference between doctrine and principles.
And principles are the practices and even commandments that are instituted
to achieve the purposes of the doctrine.
And many of the institutes and organizations in the church,
the practices that are adopted,
and these are things that are being updated,
are all in line with the doctrine.
They are just changing different procedures
to achieve it more efficiently in the modern day.
So, there we go.
I love that so few people are going to understand any of the context of this.
Yeah, I'm not going to pretend to be able to ask you follow-ups on that.
I'll just be like,
hopefully that answers the person's question.
Chad, how do you feel about the soul reaver sword?
It's a bit out of proportion.
It's the one with the really wavy blade with the skull above the handle,
if I remember correctly.
The skull seemed to be a bit oversized,
which would throw off the balance.
Unless it was like hollow,
and it was just kind of an external facing just to get the look.
Then it could still be functional,
but I can't remember the finer details
to really comment on any more any more specificity than that, unfortunately.
All right.
See, some of these, I don't even know the context.
How many eight foot people do you know, Chad?
Not many.
I don't know.
I feel like the answer is zero.
How many eight foot people do you actually know?
I can't think of one.
Yeah.
I mean, I've completely forgot the context of that one.
Oh, look at this one.
Hey, Mauler, I have a question for Shad.
Will we ever see a return to the Rogue Star universe?
I would love to, but I don't think...
This is coming from a YouTube channel that my brother launched,
and I was one of their founding members of it.
Tabletop time where we did role-playing games and stuff.
And it was great.
And I ran a campaign called Rogue Star,
which was very popular and it was very story driven.
And unfortunately, it doesn't look like we'll ever be returning to tabletop time
because my brother's just too busy.
But I'm setting the groundwork to launch my own role-playing channel.
Hopefully, it could start next year once I get my studio built and things.
And would I do another Rogue Star campaign?
Maybe, maybe not.
I don't know.
I want to do other campaigns and things.
But I do want to kind of Frankenstein certain elements from the Rogue Star universe
into a sci-fi book setting that I might want to write sometime in the future.
So there might be vestiges of Rogue Star still seen.
That also ended with also HiRags.
Hello.
And is this going to be like an online thing you do?
IRL tabletop sort of thing?
Sorry, what was that?
Was there a question for me?
Yeah, is this going to be like an online RP sort of thing
or a tabletop like in physical form in a room in your house that you're doing?
Yeah, so I find the best kind of gameplay and interaction happens
when you have people in the same room together.
And so that's what I'm kind of going for.
And so yeah, my studio will give it like I'm building a studio at the back to give me,
you know, for instance, I could do chats like this
and there won't be as much background noise and things.
So just to make working a little more convenient,
but also to give me opportunity to launch some additional kind of projects
and one of them being that and so trying to get a good group of guys together to
yeah, do some do some good old RPG.
I didn't know you're into that.
That's really good.
I'm kind of starting to get into it as well.
And I'm really like it.
Yeah, I've been into it ever since I was 12 years old.
I'm old schooler.
Yeah, I started with first edition D&D went through advanced D&D third edition.
Fourth edition was an abomination and they didn't regain my trust to try out fifth edition.
And by then I had made my own rule system with my brother.
Very interesting.
There you go.
Someone wanted you to say I love you in a heartwarming voice chat.
Well, go on then.
As in you.
Oh, you want me to say it.
This super chat once I believe it asked me to say it or me to say it for you to say it.
I love you.
Was that was that was that heartfelt?
Did it come on?
That was beautiful.
I think I could try it.
I could try more more emotion.
I love you.
There you go.
That I don't recall that gorgeous.
Shad, I recall you saying you really enjoyed the game Dragon's Dogma.
If I'm correct, what was your preferred class?
Mystic Knight is mine.
I did like it.
First off, Dragon's Dogma is actually my all time favorite game.
No game has actually topped it.
I like and the fact that they've never made us well, they might still.
But to this day, there's been no sequel is breaks my heart.
And no, the online version doesn't really count as a sequel because it was only released in Japan.
How dare they?
So yeah, the Mystic Knight was that's why the game was so good.
So many of the classes were fun.
I made probably over 100 characters.
And that's probably about true.
It Jagger's Dogma playing through on the hardest mode and all that.
And I did all the classes.
I mean, the starter classes are lukewarm, like, you know,
watered down versions of their higher classes.
And I usually did a hybrid one so I could get the right
feats and bonuses from all the other classes to get the,
get the, you know, the toughest character that you could and things.
But of course, the Mystic Knight was awesome.
But I couldn't stand that the shield was always on the back of your character whenever you move.
And you only held the character in your arm when you didn't attack that bug the heck out of me.
So if there's any criticism, I'd say it would be that.
And I actually, I think that might actually be all of the ones meant for you,
at least not including the ones that may have been sent in this stream.
Not a worry.
I've got, I've got one copy here that says,
ask Rags the use figuratively for literally question.
I think we did that.
We're not, Shad is going to agree with me.
I know it.
No, well, I mean, it wasn't even, I think I even I said,
like, no, we don't destroy words even more.
Let's not like, literally does not mean figuratively.
So the idea is that a whole bunch of people have used literally to mean figuratively so much
that we should take revenge by using literally to mean figuratively.
And I said, I hate that idea, because we'll just kill the words even more.
Yeah, I don't know how that's getting revenge on him.
It'll ruin everything.
The proper definition of literary literally has a very use or important use in language.
Yes.
And so I say, let's try and keep it.
I understand that dictionaries are descriptive, not prescriptive.
And they eventually words change in their meaning.
But literal is a very, dare I say it, literal thing.
Like, it is very useful.
It has a lot of utility to that being used the way it is especially.
And I would really rather not have words mean their opposite unironically.
Gotta draw the lines.
Gotta draw the line somewhere.
I know, it's just awful.
This is the kind of shit that keeps you from living in caves.
Yeah, this is how everything falls apart.
This is how everyone dies.
Okay.
So we're beginning.
Yeah, like, because I actually agree with you, because yeah, language is more fluid.
But for the I like the original, the proper meaning of literal is so useful.
I will fight against any cultural kind of sway to try and push it against it.
But if it gets to the point where everyone has lost the meaning,
I don't know if that would ever happen.
I hope not.
I would then just have to go with the flow.
But at the moment, most people do remember the proper meaning of literal.
So let's keep it.
I agree with this man.
Yeah.
That's my controversial take, I suppose.
Let's see what else.
I think I might have more for rags.
Someone said, yeah, but people don't use figuratively that often.
Like, I almost think that it's more implied than explicitly stated.
When people are talking about things figuratively, they don't normally say figurative,
you know, figuratively.
A lot of the time, you know, when they're talking about an analogy or
just using it to refer to something and you can just
kind of pick it up without them having to say it.
But all right, guys, I better go.
I need to help my wife with the kids and so.
Well, sure.
No problemo.
If there are any more questions, I shall save them for you, sir.
It has been a joy, as always.
It was particular fun to come on in such a heated time and come through.
Ozzy, thank you so much for being around what you did.
That was, I think that was wonderful for so many people,
including Wolf.
I know he had fun listening to that.
It was great.
So anyway, thanks, guys.
I appreciate you inviting me and I'll see you next time.
I shall catch you around.
Goodbye, sir.
Farewell.
Bye bye.
Bye.
That leaves me and you, Rags.
What are we going to do, huh?
What are we going to do?
Oh, I don't know.
I guess we could do it.
We could do all these super chats.
We will try.
At least we could get started on them.
So I got this one that I believe I skipped over for the sake of time before and now I'm
looking at it and I'm like, OK, so you got Knights of Ren, Golden Company, Snoke, Jaws,
Sequels, Dark Fate, Pandas, SU, I guess, Steven Universe.
I don't know.
Polio, Watson, Vader, All My Sanity, which wins the title of most redundant.
So I suppose I suppose I suppose we will choose one each.
Which one do you think is the most redundant?
I know that I went with the Golden Company because of the fact that in season eight of
Game of Thrones, they don't actually need to be there for anything to change.
They are the the other the epitome of the word redundant.
They don't serve any purpose whatsoever.
So we got not or no longer needed or useful.
Knights of Ren, they're supposed to show up in episode nine.
So they might do something they might do something.
Golden Company, what you said, Snoke, Snoke is not redundant.
The problem is that he is extremely important.
He is vital for the story, but he's just basically treated as if he's not.
We don't know how specifically he's important.
We know he's important.
We don't know exactly how Jaws sequels.
I haven't seen the Jaws sequels, actually.
So, yeah, dark fate you've seen.
I haven't.
I don't know.
I call that movie redundant.
I mean, things happen.
People live and die.
You know, I mean, it's not, you know, then we've got pandas, pandas are good for
tourism and they're good for some, you know, symbolism and stuff like that.
Like a lot of angles as you that.
Like I said, I don't know if that's Steven, Steven Universe or something else.
I don't know.
S.U. is yeah.
Someone will go through the list.
Someone tell me what S.U. means.
I'm assuming it's Steven Universe.
I don't know what else it would be.
Maybe that can confirm while they go around the horn.
Next, we have polio.
Polio is just well, it's definitely not needed or useful.
So it's certainly redundant in that sense.
And we've basically cured it and we've basically eradicated polio because of vaccines.
Watson, as I assume in Watson and as opposed to Sherlock Holmes,
depending on how it is, he's like a grounding for the character.
He's every man to be almost like a foil for him, his assistant,
depending on the iteration of Holmes we're talking about.
It might be that he can't function normally without that normal person to,
you know, kind of keep him on track and all of that.
It depends.
Vader is definitely not redundant.
I mean, he performed a very important task for the empire.
The connotation there is that he couldn't even kill the emperor because he's back.
So does he become redundant?
I don't know.
He killed.
He still killed all those Jedi.
Definitely did a lot of work or my sanity.
I don't know about the state of your sanity, so I couldn't couldn't couldn't say we've
got Soviet Union, in which case, yeah, that's dead.
That's definitely no longer needed.
Steven universe is probably what makes sense.
Simply unresistible.
Shelby, Uganda, stupid uranium.
I still think the Golden Company is the most redundant out of all of them.
They serve no purpose.
They just get erased.
Stargate universe.
I don't know if it's I don't know anything about Steven universe other than their fans
are very understanding and happy to discuss things with you.
So.
So what do you go with?
The most there.
Yeah, most redundant.
Probably Golden Company.
All right, there we go.
I did it.
That's that has been answered.
Rags, I have a dumb question.
What the frick happened to V?
You mentioned him during a dumb in episode 60.
What happened to him?
Yeah, something happened to him.
I don't know.
Is that was there a Steven Universe thing?
You interrupted a question.
Jay will wait your turn.
All right, I'm about to head out.
So if there's a question, he's answering.
I can do it now.
And if there's not, I'll just go.
How redundant is Steven Universe?
What like to the story?
No, not or no longer needed or superfluous.
What to the events of the story?
He's like vital.
He makes everything happen.
I don't know, man.
It just says SU and I assume it's maybe means the show.
Yeah.
How redundant is the show?
I mean, how redundant is any piece of art?
Pretty redundant.
Now that the finale happened.
Maybe that's where the finale.
Finale made everything kind of like not matter.
Made like the events of everything.
Oh, okay.
So if it was that easy to solve, why didn't you just.
Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to head to the store now.
All right.
Thank you, Jay.
Anytime.
Thank you, Jay.
What a piece of shit.
He completely interrupted your question as to what happened to V.
Is he alive?
I hope so.
Now we can get some work done in here.
The next question is HiRag recently got Divinity OS 2.
After watching your vid, I am greatly enjoying it.
Thought the physics magic armor negating CC would bug me, but no.
Yeah, and there's a lot and there are mods to change that.
If you if you change your mind and decide that you don't like this armor system,
then you can easily install one of the many, many mods for the game that instead
replaces the armor system with the willpower system instead,
which is very interesting.
I'm going through a playthrough of the game intermittently
using a highly modded version, and I'm having a good time.
There's a lot of different ways to play, but I'm glad you're liking it.
Definitely a fantastic, fantastic game.
And that is all the questions I have saved for either you or
Shad.
We've got some left for Arch and Sargon, and I think we've got one for that Star Wars girl.
And I'm saving one for Gary.
One for a collective of three people.
I'm not sure when that one will be run out.
And that's about it.
And I've moved all of the wolf ones into a file and I'm now going to start on the super chats.
I like I said, I'm going to skip over the ones that are questions for wolf and save them
all into a big notepad.
So yeah, Rags, you ready?
I am ready.
Here we go.
First one, do you guys like the end of Mando episode six where the rebels show up and decide
to destroy the entire station just because the track is there and let Mando escape?
Imagine Mando left the tracker at a preschool and then flew away.
So it's one of the rebels murder people just because a prisoner might be there.
Yeah, that is definitely that is something that made our job as a good,
a good little, a little finisher for that terrible episode.
We were already pissed at the episode.
We had the rebellion being murderous psychopaths.
And before someone says, hey, man, they were launching an attack vehicle or whatever.
It's like you have no context as to why they are launching that.
Like you can't just assume that they're they're hostile, destroy the entire base.
Like, wow.
And they destroy it instantly.
And now what?
Utterly disappointed in the Republic, the new Republic, whatever.
They fucked up.
Holy shit.
Really disappointing.
What can you do?
Monstrous action that they just took.
Yeah, we're only two two episodes remaining before we can do an episode all about Mandalorian.
But as you can probably tell me and Rags, you know, how do you put this?
Not huge fans so far.
Three was pretty pretty bad.
Well, I don't know.
It was not good.
I'll say that three was not good.
Four or five and six were bad.
They didn't destroy it, did they?
You see several shots like that seem to explode large portions of the base.
They're just attacking random pieces as well as the the the hangar bay that they shoot.
Seems as though they're OK with destroying the entire thing.
That's the impression I guess.
Also, we got a more will you post a Sargon failed stream.
So we're rescheduling with Sargon and Arch.
We're going to try and get a full stream done with them eventually.
The the 20 minute one that we had.
I don't know what's the easiest way to access that if you want.
I was going to release it as a mini.
I'm not sure about it anymore.
Like it's because it's a weird video.
If it does get released as a mini, it's kind of just like.
I don't know.
I'm not I'm not entirely for or against that as an idea.
I'm not sure yet.
This one just says.
Who what should I do with this ranks?
Hmm.
What do you feel is right?
Kill it.
No, no, I I agree with him.
I also think.
Blame throw.
I think you should give into your inner ooh.
Blame throw.
No.
Let the ooh flow through you.
Hello all.
Let's get started.
Actually got alerted this time as well.
Let's get started.
Yeah, that that was.
My goodness, right?
That was 13 hours ago that that was said.
Time has traveled, to say the least.
What happened to the sargon stream?
So my internet is currently having serious issues.
They need to dig up my front lawn and replace several
call wires before everything will be fixed.
Luckily for me, the internet is not intermittent right now.
However, my phone line is dead.
And so everyone has to call through their mobiles, which
because we're in the future isn't as much as a problem
as it would have been like 10 to 15 years ago.
But yeah, that's probably going to be fixed in January
because I seriously doubt they're going to set up to fix
the dig up a front lawn during Christmas time.
Seems unlikely.
Luckily for me, that means the internet still works
and that we still can stream, which will be the intention
with Rise of Skywalker.
Unfortunately, that happened on the night that we had the
first stream with sargon of Akkad, the notorious person
who destroys everything.
Am I right conspiracy theorists?
There's a lot of ideas that he was actually the reason
it got destroyed.
I don't know why that would be something that people would
think, but we nearly had it on Friday.
Unfortunately, sargon was exhausted because he did a
really long stream talking about the Brexit.
Well, no, not Brexit.
It was an election.
Yeah, almost happened.
He was obviously very thrilled with the election.
Very, very happy.
So he probably was up late.
He did a stream while you and our mini, I think.
And he streamed for a long time.
He streamed longer than we did.
And the following day, we were all set to go, but he was
ruined.
And so he even said he didn't want to come on to as a pool
performance.
He wants to be sort of active and engaged.
So we've still got the video.
We've still got a good effect plan for that.
It's just it's probably going to be in January now because
we've got the 21st and then theoretically, me and Rags
could do a stream on the 20.
We'll have to we're gonna have to talk about what we're
planning for Christmas if we're planning anything.
I don't actually know.
But if apps, Christmas times, more to come.
I'm sure of it.
PewDiePie is taking a break from YouTube.
Is that true?
You don't know anything about it?
I don't know.
I don't know.
But if he feels he needs to take a break, then do it.
Take a break.
Take a vacation.
The inside can be a nightmare.
I'm just looking at his newest uploads.
I don't see anything about title saying taking a break.
But, you know, maybe.
Anyway.
TLJ and Rise of Skywalker might suck, but at least it brought
us all together.
Looking forward to your reviews over the movie itself.
Unlike Rise of Skywalker, they'll be glorious.
Oh, yes.
We've got, there's going to be hundreds of reviews to watch.
Who knows?
We might even find some new content creators.
It will consume us.
As Rags said on, I think it was World Class Bullshit's high
council stream that this will be an opportunity for new creators to
really get their name out there if they make if they make the video
with the take, you know.
Yeah.
Because it's not just one of those things.
You can have a hundred people who have a really strong take and they
all get to get a boost through this hot topic.
Obviously, I'll be making a video.
Rags, will you make a video on Rise of Skywalker?
I might.
Or maybe we'll just do a stream on our channel or I will do a.
We'll do a special eFap on it.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Maybe that'll be a good opportunity to do a stream on my channel.
I'm not sure.
Haven't decided yet.
If we're not.
I know we're going to do an eFap.
Maybe that's all we'll do, but it'll be either way.
It'll be a hell of an eFap.
Give me a long one again.
I'm not even sure that we can say it's a long one.
Would long ones actually just be straight up 24 hours.
That would be a long one.
Short ones are like eight hours.
Normal ones are 12.
I mean, it'll be.
It'll be an eFap in all that you probably consider them.
Love you, Wolf.
Also, high rags and mauler.
Or it just says dot dot dot mauler.
I'm not sure what to make of that.
I'm going to say hi.
Hello.
If water is wet, is fire burnt on your side rags?
I don't believe so.
No, fire isn't burning.
It is the thing that burns.
It is the result of something burning.
Yeah.
Yeah, basically.
Who is sex and how did my father offend them?
Yes, he acts.
You know how this works.
I read super chat.
Sometimes they just don't make sense.
OK, I'm up.
Yes, yes.
Yeah, that's what it says.
Who is sex and how did my father offend them?
I don't know what that means.
Father.
I am I am not following what they are.
I don't know.
I'm sorry.
I don't know the context of that.
And I'm sorry your father is offended by sex.
What can I say?
Just to remind people as well.
I'm skipping over ones that are directly addressing Wolf.
We're going to do an eFap mini and I'll read them all to him.
Got my got my notepad.
I already have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen for him.
I feel like that's going to go up to at least three hundred before this is over.
Well, I guess I'm clear on my schedule for the next 12 hours.
Twelve more like nineteen hours.
Am I right or am I right?
I believe you're correct.
Father is Britain offended by Saxons.
Is more or serious?
You fools.
Really guys?
Sexual harassment.
I don't understand.
How does that work?
I don't get it either.
What?
Is what serious?
How did my father get offended by sex?
What does that got to do with sexual harassment exactly?
How does that work?
Who's sex?
Chat, help us out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Someone's asked, did they not get it?
It's like, no, I didn't get it.
I have no idea what that means.
Let us know.
Well, I'll keep an eye on chat, but please let me know what that means.
It might be some kind of meme that was in the opening of the first stream.
Maybe, but I have to tell you, a lot has happened.
That's like a week in me time.
I've also I'm finally sobering up.
I had a lot of vodka, but that's where we're at.
Uh, the first efap I actually get to watch live from the jump.
You guys have meant so much to me.
We'll miss you.
We'll stay safe.
Wish you the best.
Someone said reverse.
Someone said reverse the words.
All right.
Um, wait, which was father my did how and sex is who
reverse the reverse the words.
Sex.
Oh, sex offender.
Someone's saying sex offender.
But how did my father offend sex, sex, offend?
He's a sec.
My father is a sex offender.
He offended sex.
What's that going to do with the sexual harassment meme from brown table?
No, it doesn't have anything to do with sexual harassment.
Is chat trolling us?
No, it's supposed to be like a, like a, it means sex wise.
My father's a sex offender.
Cause he offended stacks.
That's the, that's the joke.
Oh, that was, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
There you go.
Yeah.
We have, we are better off as a result of that.
Someone like there are a lot of people, only one person or two in the,
in the, in the chat was saying that a lot of people are still trying to figure it out.
Someone was like, maybe sex is an acronym.
Girl trying to figure it out.
Onision grooms, teenage girls, Chris Hansen.
I'm about to end this man's whole career.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Pretty much high rise.
I don't really know the thing going on with Onision.
It just seems that Chris Hansen's looking to discover as much as possible about the
whole situation and do some, I know that Onision was knocked off Patreon in the, in
recently ish.
So getting he is what he was, he was removed from the patreons.
Why?
I don't actually know the reasoning.
Exactly.
I just know that that happened.
Let me see.
Controversial YouTuber banned from Patreon after alleged doxing.
Onision has come under the,
Patreon banned the controversial YouTuber Onision after he allegedly doxed a woman
who says he harassed her and manipulated her into a sexual relationship.
Which is not the first time.
Darce Sirius said you guys are tired as fuck at it shows.
So we're at 13 hours of streaming.
I've had the alcatisms.
We're doing, we're doing the best we can.
But we got, we got, we got things to read out.
So that's what we're doing.
We got this.
We got this.
Where's the Onision one?
Uh, lots of wolf ones.
So Tonald is one of the brood now.
With his Star Wars video.
Great hearing him trash TLJ.
Gonna miss you, Wolf.
Glad to be free of social media-tism.
But yes, Tonald does not like TLJ.
He was quite surprised to hear, but pretty cool.
Yes, he took some shots of the prequels.
But ultimately he seems to think that the sequel trilogy or especially TLJ is the worst.
So I don't know.
I don't know what else to say other than welcome to the brood,
especially after his new video.
We were downright impressed.
That was, that was legit impressive.
He did a good job.
Oi, Morley.
Why did I see you praising Ben Kingsley as a toilet terrorist in Iron Man 3 on Twitter?
Did I mention him on Twitter?
Also, I thought that he was pretty good in Iron Man 3, honestly.
I'm actually really disappointed that we didn't get to see him
play the role of the Mandarin because man, did he seem like he was nailing it.
But when they made him play Trevor Slattery, the like fake actor dude,
I thought he did great as that too.
Ben Kingsley is just a really good actor.
Just because he's in a terrible movie does not mean he was terrible in terms of acting.
That's probably what my take would be.
I don't remember talking about that on Twitter, but if I did,
that's probably what I wanted to say.
But I can't confirm unless I see the tweets that may be referenced and also Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hey guys, I hope you have a great stream.
I was wondering what you think about that college teacher
that uses TLJ to teach his students how not to write a screenplay.
I say, bless that man, he knows what he's doing.
I'd love to see an actual like, how like,
you know, like a series of lessons that are all like focused around
maybe scenes, portions or acts of the film.
Mm hmm.
And just just how that like a how a lesson plan might run out with that sort of thing.
That could be really cool.
Like I stand by the whole like, it's a challenge for homework,
like to discover as many problems with the film as you can.
And then like mark each other's homework or something.
Yeah.
So the reason I'm getting slowed on this is I've just like the next six in a row
are all directed at Wolf.
Hmm.
So I'm going to I got you.
I got you.
Gives me a little bit of a speed bump, but I'm getting there.
It's a shame we can't get the Efap screening of episode nine,
a weekend at Palpatine's a weekend at Palpatine's.
I mean, Palpatine is going to be alive and well,
so it wouldn't quite be the same plot as that movie.
I imagine unless who would the dead person be in that scenario?
Probably just Star Wars in general.
That would be the corpse.
But you know, the stream we're going to do for it instead,
we'll just do it'll have to do and I'm sure it will.
Like I said, full roster, probably going to be the 12 hours again.
And all about episode nine, your one stop shop for such things.
And yes, the 21st, so it gives you guys a little bit of time.
If you really want to sort of see the film, that's really up to you, I suppose.
A lot of people feel that they don't want to give any money towards it,
but some people do want to feel that they want to have context for our coverage,
but we'll do our best to provide all of that as well.
When did the spiders develop Wigs?
They fly now?
That fucking clip, man.
They fly now?
They fly now.
Everybody was really pissed at that.
Definitely didn't make any friends.
Make any friends?
No, like the thing.
It didn't earn them any friends that trailer.
Agreed, yeah.
No friends were made as a result of that clip.
No friends were made.
Of course, you guys start just as work starts.
Is that good or is that bad?
We could keep you company while you're working.
Yeah, just your friends.
Say hello.
Okay.
Hello, all my e-words.
What would the E stand for at that point?
E-words?
I don't know.
E-words.
Yeah, not entirely sure.
I don't know, but I don't know about the E-words.
Oh my.
This theoretical mini is going to be very long.
With the bonus memes, the videos we're going to have to watch out,
all these things I'm going to have to read out.
But it'll be worth it.
Hello, me in eight hours.
I wonder if that's accurate.
It might actually be.
That's probably pretty close, actually.
It's a good way to remind yourself of things.
Okay.
Everybody betray me.
I'm fed up with this world.
That's a super chat.
A well worth while one.
Okay.
I think I'm just going to say this every once in a while.
I'm going past a lot of ones that are specifically directed at Wolf
from saving them all into a big file.
Make sure he gets everything.
Was watching Southpaw's podcast and got introduced to Bigidius Pupil.
Just T-F-I.
Just T-F-I?
Just T-F-I.
Also watched GeForce and it was still better than TLJ featuring knobs.
Maybe GeForce would be a good E-FAT movies.
Because it keeps getting brought up because of the knobs thing.
But we have to watch it now just because knobs is starring in it.
We have to see how he performs.
Death Star Destroyers sounds like baby's first fan fiction.
What the fuck is wrong with JJ?
I wouldn't even write that when I was 10.
He's got his opinion.
You've got yours.
But how else do you actually outdo the super duper, super duper, super Star Destroyer?
It's like, well, I have a million little ones.
That's outdoes it, right?
Like unironically, I think there's probably an idea that ended up on the cutting room
floor, if you will, that they all joined together into a giant laser that could wipe out galaxies.
But people are like, JJ, that's going too far.
And he was like, oh, man.
E-FAT is a podcast about a movie about space wizards intended for children,
intended for hate mongers of the toxic brood.
I'm not going to disagree with that.
Yeah, it seems reasonable, honestly.
Remember that this podcast is for people with a sense of humor.
And it's all our opinions, so you can't criticize it.
But we will also simultaneously talk about how someone is stupid if they don't agree with the
perspective that they hold in the video.
It'll make sense.
Have a great E-FAT, everyone.
Nice little opening super chat, I'd say.
Rhapsody in Blue goes public domain on January 1st.
Really?
That's wow.
That's interesting.
I didn't know that.
That's fantastic, though.
That's an excellent piece.
Well, I feel like a lot of that.
There's going to be a lot of surprising ones with that as time goes on.
And it's going to be like, oh, this is Lee.
You could use this however you want to.
You're like, oh, shit.
Like Mickey Mouse.
That's in the next few years, right?
I bet you guys can't wait to put Mickey Mouse in your fan fictions.
I think.
Yeah, well, hmm.
I wonder how Mickey Mouse would.
And this is the thing that they've used Mickey Mouse so little now,
like I think by design because they're losing the copyright.
Unless the lawyers can fight to push that as far as possible.
I don't really know.
Mola can't say nagar.
There's also ways you can pronounce this nagar.
That could be another one.
This is a word that's allowed in through super chance.
It's clearly referencing something.
You know, I disagree with the super chat.
I was able to pronounce that I was.
I was able to say it 100% clearly with no issue.
Here's.
Gonna watch Rise of Skywalker on Thursday.
Can't wait to hate it.
Wow.
Going in hating it already.
See, this is what I mean about the toxic brood is disgusting.
Like they don't watch movies with the intention of just enjoying it.
They go in hating it.
It's disgusting.
Yeah.
I mean, I want it to be hilarious.
Yeah.
Going in like being like, oh, I hate you already.
Terrible.
It's not like you've read the leaks and you know that it's going to be terrible.
Right.
That'll be ridiculous.
Someone said, uh, do a no do a beetle Borg's eFap mini.
Oh my God.
Beetle Borg's isn't something that I had.
I haven't heard of big bad beetle Borg's in a long time.
What is beetle Borg's?
Oh, here.
Let me, um, copy it because I remember some of the cheap, shitty toys.
Um, uh, here you, you recall this big, bad beetle Borg's.
No, I don't think I ever saw those, or at least I don't remember them at all.
There were a couple like there were, they're almost like Power Rangers.
There were different iterations of them.
I remember some of the toys and stuff when I was really, really young.
Someone made beetle Borg's in Soul Calibur.
But yeah, we need to do, uh, oh, Jay Leno was in big, bad beetle.
Wow.
Why?
But there's it.
Oh, it's seven.
They made big bad.
They made beetle and they were also the Power Rangers people, I think.
Um, yeah, let's check out, uh, we need to check out beetle Borg's sometime.
Wow.
That isn't beetle Borg's.
That's something I have heard in a long time.
Curse of the shadow Borg.
Okay.
Um, thank you all for the countless hours of fun you guys have brought me.
I'm a truck driver and I spent countless hours along the road.
Listening to you guys makes the job much easier or easier.
So Rags Wolf and Moeller, thank you.
You bet, man.
Yeah, absolutely.
Good stuff.
Maybe you're listening right now on the, uh, 13th and a half hour of this double stream.
Um, I almost forgot Merry Christmas, Wolf.
You know what?
I'm going to take that to be Merry Christmas for all of us.
And it was, yeah, I'm going to assume you care about us as well.
Uh, a lot of people have accepted Star Wars died at round heads hands.
I mean, it's complicated to pinpoint the death,
but I think TLJ would be the sort of wide shot that you would throw at it.
You'd be like, it's around there.
If you're going to pinpoint it exactly,
maybe even rise a Skywalker could be the exact pinpoint.
I don't know.
Um.
Just a second.
Don't, uh, pay money for the rise of Skywalker.
Pay for a different movie ticket.
Actually good one.
Then sneak into rise of Skywalker and be prepared to laugh at the comedy film.
The lovely folks over at Lucasfilm put together.
I know that that's what a lot of people are going to do so that they can stay in the conversation,
but also, uh, not give Disney any money.
Um, though, I think a lot of people are going to go the Jack Sparrow route as well.
It's very possible.
You'll get your, uh, you'll get your Puerto Rican style.
Shaky cam coverage, I believe.
I think it was.
Yeah.
Who made the joke in his like teal.
I couldn't just tell jail or something else coverage,
but he says like, uh, there was a part of the film he couldn't quite make out
because too many people were laughing over or something.
And he was like directly on purpose, referencing the cab copy that everybody, uh,
who didn't go to see the movie had looked at.
Um, um, I don't know what to make of this one.
Worth got leaven killed to change my mind.
Worth leaving leaven.
Those are clearly people, but I don't know.
Maybe a reference to something that we're not on the up and up of.
Oh, cube.
Those are characters from cube.
However, I haven't seen cube, so I do not know that.
So have you seen cube?
I know of cube.
I saw cube two.
I didn't see cube one.
Oh, there's a cube two.
Yeah.
Maybe we should see those.
You two wasn't very good.
You two was.
I've heard cube one is good, or at least much better than the second one.
Apparently, it's like hypercube or something.
Yeah, let's.
Yeah, we can.
Oh, the second one's called hypercube.
No, it's called cube two, but it's.
It's cube two hypercube.
Well, so for instance, right?
This is something I remember about cube two.
Two people have sex and then they spin in mid-air and then they age rapidly and die.
Oh, my God.
Something that I remember happening.
Hey, I can't remember the exact context, but I remember
even as a young man watching it and being like, what the fuck?
I was like, oh, my God.
I'd better never have sex.
Yes, because sex.
I don't want this to happen to me.
It makes you an old.
The only people who trust Rotten Tomatoes are the people whose opinions align with
the critic score.
Yeah, this thing.
I don't know anybody who appeals to Rotten Tomatoes critic scores.
You know, people don't typically because those folks
little bit crazy when it comes to movie movie takes.
Opinion about the Ghostbusters afterlife trailer.
It was OK.
It was fine.
It was nice and kind of subtle.
And it wasn't very like.
Crazy over the top.
It had a nice sense of scale to it.
And I'm curious to see what they do with it.
I'm curious to see how it how it turns out.
I liked the subtlety of it.
I think that it's tough to think positively about it because of the fact that of everything
else is going on in Hollywood right now in terms of just destroying IPs.
I think it's got potential and maybe we should try and be a little bit optimistic like this
would be the one to be optimistic about, I think, out of everything we're dealing with.
Let's see what happens with trailer two.
That eventually comes out and, you know, hopefully it's OK.
Hopefully it's OK.
What else can I say?
Yeah, I am cautiously optimistic.
But I like the trailer enough.
And holy shit, it's a damn sight better than 2016.
The file size for a figure in the advent calendar is 80 to 90 kilobytes,
except for Jay, whose file comes at a whopping three hundred and thirteen kilobytes.
Therefore, Jay is a massive.
What is what's wow.
What's up with that?
Did you does he have is he on a rhino or something?
I don't think so.
I think maybe there's just some preference there.
I don't know.
He begins may really like Jay, you know, he just might.
And Jay, you know, this one just says I have a sense of humor.
I think this is in relation to the need to have a sense of humor to watch the video,
if you remember.
Oh, yeah, it's good we split those streams up because that one's going to be available
for me to repost it almost immediately after we're done with this stream.
So people can see at least the first half straight away.
Oh, yeah, that is good.
That's processing.
Rags rapidly reposts retarded roast rebuttals.
Amen.
Yeah, I don't think we can disagree with that.
Nice one.
Hey, Ray should have been a conduit that Anakin used Anakin would lend his natural
ability in the force and his learned skills to know to one individual.
This explains Ray's power and allows Anakin to stay important.
How does that work?
Ray should have been a conduit that Anakin used like as in like used as a force ghost.
Like maybe he could possess her.
I don't know.
I don't know what he means.
So Ray should have been a so maybe if Darth Vader was coming back
as Anakin, he would be good.
He uses.
Oh, if Anakin wanted to remain a part of the trilogy,
this would give a yeah, this is I guess like an explanation for how
it would be a better explanation for why she's so good.
Yeah, I'm not sure I really like it like that because the idea of him just being
able to give all the skills and talent to somebody.
Right.
That sort of opens up some options there too for other people to be doing that.
Yeah, which complicates everything.
I just I don't know.
I'm crazy thought I just want people to stay dead.
Just stay dead.
Anakin had a great series of movies from one to six.
Just stay dead, even though I'm pretty sure he is definitely staying dead.
Not coming back in these movies, which by the way, shocking.
Honestly, I still think that I'm surprised overall that they didn't bring back Vader.
That seems like the thing they would do.
Vader is the most popular villain of all time in culture.
So why not just bring him back, bring him back Palpatine.
You know, these fuckers don't have any shame at all.
Exactly. So why not do it?
Maybe they'll bring him back in episode ten.
Episode ten.
Geez, when will that happen?
Mola mechanizes model massives.
Meanwhile, menacingly messages Ma-Rei Su.
Why would I message Rei?
Massages Rei.
Oh my goodness.
Menacingly massages.
I'm curious exactly what that entails.
How would you interpret a menacing massage, Ranks?
A menacing massage?
Oh, strangulation.
Oh.
Or just like digging into people.
Would I strangle Rei?
Do you think that's the case?
No, I wouldn't strangle Rei.
What about me? Would I do it?
Well, maybe like a crea-
No, I wouldn't strangle you.
No, no, would I strangle Rei?
Oh, no.
No?
No, you wouldn't strangle Rei.
I mean, she kind of ruined everything though.
She's just, I mean, yeah, I wouldn't, don't kill her.
Not like, I don't know-
Alright Rei, we're gonna spare you.
You can, you know, be happy.
Yay.
Good morning.
I've always loved listening to your podcast.
You're legit my favorite, Mola.
Aww.
Pretty kind.
Uh, listening to this while cleaning toilets at work.
Oh, as long as you got some company in your ear,
that could probably pass the time a little bit quicker, I suppose.
I'm glad you respond to this shitty video.
I watched it and hoped you'll react to it
because there's a lot of bruh moments in there.
Like I said, man, this one more so than any other video
in the history of eFab was sold to me as the video
to convince a person that TLJ has quality in it.
Yeah, this is really not a, not good.
I was just arguing that most, we'd heard most of it before.
Was expected more.
This one says, I mean, it says carrot something and then A-U-G-H.
I wonder if it's like foreshadowing for the carrot being cooked bad thing.
I don't know.
I'm gonna choose to believe that it was foreshadowing.
This next one says test.
What do you think that could possibly mean?
Well, maybe they were trying to see if test was a banned word by Google.
I'm gonna give it time.
Also, all the super chats I sent with the repetitive letter thing,
please send the money to whom I addressed in them.
So $10 for all of you massives, absolutely.
The Balrog was a tennis ball on a string during production.
Man, Lord of the Rings was such a silly movie.
Oh, I know right.
Fucking silly ass movies.
Those fantasy films.
So silly.
Shouldn't hope to recreate those because they're just this silly.
I don't even, I can't even tell you what the fuck his point was with that.
Silly.
Hi, Massives.
I haven't had time to chat to catch up with all the chaos over the year
because I was recently joined the Marines.
Here's a small pledge.
Been efapping since its conception.
The Genesis, if you will.
Yeah, I'm really glad, man.
What about a sex strangle?
Chat asks.
You can force heal her if she cries.
If she cries.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my God.
Well, you bring people back from the dead.
Oh, no, she can, though.
Well, you know, there'll be more questions.
Questions shall arise.
Guys, thoughts on the Harry Potter movies.
They're fine, I guess.
They're fine.
You need to talk to Harry Potter fans because I just
I was never that into them.
But but like, I thought the actors did a good job.
I thought it made sense for the most part.
But I'd have to watch them all again.
And I just don't even really care to because I just don't care about Harry Potter that much,
unfortunately.
I remember doing bad plot summaries with my friends.
We always started with remember that time when and everyone else had to guess what it is.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of those that are like custom made
that you can sort of try and guess.
But they're a great way to understand that you can make any movie sound retarded.
And I hate the idea that Star Wars is just so silly.
Look at how silly it is.
There's a guy in a robot suit, a guy in a dog costume who's not even wearing pants.
How silly.
I'm not wearing pants.
I'm not a dog costume, though.
Advice on starting a movie review YouTube channel.
What do you got, Rex?
Oh, try to.
I don't know about specifically movie reviews, but try to do something everybody's doing.
Give people a reason to come to you.
People only have so much time.
So if they can only watch a certain amount of videos, give them a reason to choose yours
over anyone else.
Have something about your personality or the way that you look at information and assess things and
analyze info to make them want to get your take or make it entertaining if you can.
Yeah.
And then for me, I just be like stick to what you're passionate about to keep yourself going
and do your best to stay as accurate and structured as you can.
And I know that a lot of people seem to think that my videos, the people who don't like me,
like, oh, so unstructured, just funny.
You can ask metal has been helping him.
Rescript is a John Wick video.
The amount of structuring that goes into script writing and redrafting on my end, like,
I guess I'll have to review one of my own videos one day to try and point out how much
structuring there is, but it's good for you.
And you eventually kind of have to learn your own video.
Sometimes if you want to do like a really big, important breakdown, that's that does the job
and you don't have to return to it, you got to learn it as almost like a fiction.
You're like, oh, I started with this.
I mentioned this before.
Don't want to repeat this point.
I'll move this point to this section or to make this more poignant.
I'm going to talk about it here instead of there, like that sort of thing.
I feel like a lot of the stuff we usually say is just be detailed, accurate,
passionate, lots of the sort of standard pieces of advice,
but they really are good for getting you on the way.
Even the quote, good artists copy great artists steal
quoted by Steve Jobs from Picasso is stolen from previous people.
Good artists copy great artists steal.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
Yeah, you'd have to sort of go really far into what exactly you mean.
Like, again, about the whole the line between being influenced
and creating something new versus just outright copying and pasting.
Like, it's complicated.
Jay has really outdone himself.
These last dozen of apps, a job well done.
Mr. Manager, majority shareholder.
Now kick Jay along with Wolf.
Hi, wags.
Hello.
I mean, yeah, we can kick Jay.
We did already.
You must have found that satisfying.
He was kicked twice, actually.
So not bad.
Done a good job today.
I think most would agree.
I think you're good.
This notepad is getting very, very, very large.
Oh, my God.
Started playing as Zabrak in Star Wars D&D,
Darth Maul's race called Mal Craxis.
Do you guys have a favorite race?
The white.
Oh, let me see.
A favorite race in Star Wars?
I don't know.
If I was going to be, besides human, let's say non-human race.
Star Wars races.
Oh, right.
Oh, right.
Star Wars alien races.
I got a list.
I'll go through some here.
All right.
I'd want to be a Claudites.
Those are changelings.
Oh, like Zam in the second movie.
Zam's a Claudite.
I would definitely want to be a be one of those.
So far, I'm just going down a big list here.
Those are looking like they're going to be the ones.
I mean, it's a pretty strong choice.
I wonder what.
Pretty incredible ability.
And we're all we're assuming humans off the table, I guess.
Yeah, a non-human.
Bothans aren't too bad.
Many Bothans died to get that information.
Trandoshans can I think they could regrow limbs.
They have like really big regenerate.
They have very super powerful regenerative capabilities.
Um, let's see.
Obviously Ewoks.
But do, do, do.
Zabrak is what Maul is.
Yeah, probably the Claudites.
I'm willing to agree with that.
Anyone can find something from literature
and mythology from Star Wars.
There's a documentary called Star Wars,
The Legacy Reveal that did that.
Yeah, he was upset that apparently the critics
are not talking about the mythology.
Those pesky bastards.
Along with Terminator Resistance,
keep an ear out for the fan game.
Techcom 2029 marks reviews as an exclusive play through
of their unreleased demo.
All right.
Hmm.
Currently banned from Discord because I argue that sports
are fake and gay.
Vet your mods, masked man.
Also, hi doggy.
Hello.
Like I said, I'm assuming it's probably more
than just saying sports are fake and gay, but I mean.
Sports are real and gay.
I'll have you know.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
Oi Morley, mind playing your TLJ critique part two
at 1.22.50 for a minute or so.
It would definitely seem appropriate for our current time.
I guess.
I'm curious now enough to be like what is this reference?
Must be in relation to the video.
1.22.50.
Instead, it was nothing.
Rey's power is her own and we will likely know nothing
about her parents now or how they inform her character,
which is all we had because of how much
of a blank slate she was.
The defense for this is that it's subversive content,
as you are also readily aware of.
So let's do this.
What is the purpose of subversive content exactly?
Oh, I don't want to play this whole section.
But yeah, I say I say it's likely we won't even find out
what how exactly her powers came to be now.
But apparently we will because she's Palpatine's granddaughter.
Yeah, turns out she's Palpatine's granddaughter.
It makes sense if you think about it.
Oh, yeah, it's how much they're going to bother
trying to explain that.
It's really like, I don't know, she will throw a couple
flashbacks in or whatever.
It's going to be so crazy walking into the theater
being like, this is it.
Here we go.
Who knows what we're about to see, really?
We've read the leaks, but honestly, you know.
Yeah, I'd be curious not if the leaks are accurate,
but how much they're accurate, really.
Someone, they said it was exclusively and specifically
because I said fake and gay, the mods even so.
Well, if that's the case, then I think they fucked up
in their moderation and I think that they should reverse it.
But if that's the case, I think that's a ridiculous reason
to get banned from the server.
And obviously, they should undo that.
And you could clip that shit and send it their way,
assuming that was why you got banned.
Yeah, like I said, I'm not a mod.
Well, for one, I can't do anything about more decisions
on the Discord because I just don't involve myself enough
in the admin decisions to be able to be like,
I overrule everything here, but I seriously doubt,
because I do know them pretty well.
I've known them for like five years, some of them now.
Seriously doubt so they would ban you
just for saying fake and gay.
It doesn't seem like them, but if they did,
yeah, maybe that sounds fake and gay on its own.
Didn't JJ say I'll do what I want in regards to episode nine?
Yes, he said fuck it in an article.
I think that's what we're getting.
According to the Terminator fans,
Paramount may have purposefully wanted Dark Fate to fail
so they can push their version of John Connor
with Chris Pratt in the upcoming film,
The Tomorrow War.
Amazing.
Uh.
The Tomorrow War.
I don't know that.
That's one of the two.
A man is drafted to fight no war
where the fate of human ability to confront his past.
Let's hope it's good shit.
I mean, as far as I can tell, didn't the director
of Dark Fate say he doesn't know why it failed?
He was like, I don't know, it seemed like it was pretty good.
Uh, Wags is Quap by Wags.
Also, hi, Wags.
Hello, and I'm not Quap.
I'm amazing.
I'm inquitable.
Proof that Empire would be well received by fans.
Infinity War.
The hero is lost in the end,
yet people regard both films as high-quality entertainment.
Yeah, that argument was terrible,
and it kind of reflects how stupid this argument was
the layer about the Titanic.
That shit, oof.
Did the Titanic end when the iceberg hit?
No.
Then why would TLJ end like that, idiot?
It hits the brain, uh, braintism, as they say.
Mm-hmm.
CZFap during a reaction to TLJ Apologia.
This is where the fun begins.
Oh, yes.
Fun is...
Not gonna say it's definitive, but you know, yeah.
First Super Chat.
Gonna miss you all.
If you and the Efap gang made my days a little bit brighter
and I'm thankful for that,
I'm gonna head out and watch the whole thing later.
Also, Hi, Wags.
Hello!
Pretty much the answer to all these terrible arguments is,
if TLJ is so great, then why do other films need to be made worse to prove it?
Also by Wolf.
Um, yeah, there's a common practice for TLJ apologists.
They will constantly reference just how bad the OT is.
The OT is just as terrible, guys.
The OT is, uh, guilty of doing the things that you don't like that the sequels do.
Bad, bad, bad.
This video changes minds about TLJ.
Before watching it, they liked it still.
Now they are one of us.
Uh, yeah, like I said, I'm curious, uh,
because like I said, a lot of people on Twitter and on Discord
had sent different messages, including that they were convinced by.
I don't know if they'll feel we were either unfair
or that we offered a different perspective
that changed their position on, uh, the film, uh, video, sorry.
So, I don't know.
But like I said, a lot of people found it convincing.
I don't know why.
Weird.
Yeah, I don't know why.
Um...
All right, doing a lot of copy and pasting.
I'm starting to think that maybe, maybe I should, um,
we could do another catch up stream.
What I can, basically like my, what I'm thinking in my head right now
is I can pull up two notepads and basically go through the entire backlog
and just sort into wolf ones and then me and you ones
and then do a stream with you and just go straight through a list of me and you ones.
Hmm.
Because, uh, there's just a lot of delays right now.
Where are we at?
We're at seven and a half hours.
We've got, like I said, uh, we were intending to do a stream on Tuesday,
so we could just do a, do a check catch up on Tuesday.
How about that?
How much time do we have left?
Oh, we got quite a bit.
It's just the...
Uh, like I said, it's just lots of dead air because I have to sort through super chats.
I don't know if that means that we should, uh, refocus or, or whatever.
What do you think?
Like to keep going and go for it?
Well, I'm suggesting that, uh, say for example, if I stop stream right now
and then, uh, sort through this entire selection of super chats into
ones for Wolf or when we do the mini and then ones for us and then come Tuesday, uh,
you and I can do just a super chat catch up stream and I can just go through a notepad
filled with all the ones that are directed at us and then we'd be caught up ready for the 21st.
Well, it might not be a bad idea because we've, this stream was started like what,
seven hours ago.
Yeah, this stream not including the last one was about the same.
So we got like what 13, 14 hours of streaming today.
Yeah, I will, I will say I am a little bit biased in the department of
I, I'm feeling slightly hollow in terms of energy.
Yeah, I'm starting to get there too.
I don't want to waste people's time in terms of just like lots of silence until I get the
right things out instead of what you can have instead is a focused selection of hours of
me and Rags just smashing through all the questions.
And plus we'd have a lot more energy.
Such and yeah, but none of them will be missed.
Like I said, I have been collecting all of the wolf ones.
It's huge.
I'm going to read all of these out to him.
He's got no choice.
But yeah, I don't know.
It just seems more pragmatic right now.
And by the time we even get through a decent chunk of these more will come in.
So instead I can just sort them all offline and yeah,
it might be the best idea.
We can tackle the super chats with more, you know, energy and oomph and all that.
We have been going for like 14 hours now.
The majority of the day was spent streaming already.
Yeah, holy shit with a some epic streams.
Yeah, these were these were good.
We had we did a good pair.
He faps 64 and five with some good tisms.
Good rat, if you will.
I'm so glad we've gone through so many memes as well,
because I can stop logging so many.
And some of some of those memes guys were were really good.
Oh, yeah.
Like some of those are really still fresh in my.
Those were good stuff.
Yeah, not not looking to disappoint.
I will get working on all of this to make sure it's separated up and we can nail it.
Like I said, on Tuesday, me and Rax will probably do a stream where we just do what we did last time.
Get a full catch up done as for when we'll do the one with wolf.
He's going on, I think, I believe some kind of trip with his family very soon,
and he won't be back until late December.
So it'll be January that we're probably going to be able to do.
We'll be the copyrighted meme videos.
And like I said, we could do that slightly earlier,
but we're going to want wolf to see him as well.
So I think most people who made those meme videos would be happily happy to wait.
Along with extra memes and all the super chats that are meant for the wolf.
Though, I would say that like past this stream, if you could not send any more super chats for wolf.
Because holy fuck, it's going to be really difficult for me to read all of these to him in one sort of go.
I've only I've only gotten like I've got a shit ton and that's what like 10%.
So I'm going to get them all sorted.
But yeah, I think I think we're gonna wrap up there.
Um, because otherwise we will accidentally do a 24 hour stream,
which is the the concern we will always have.
I'm sure we'll never actually get there.
And then once we get to episode 100, I'll have to do a 50 hour stream or something.
But it's been kind of crazy.
We did Tonald's good video.
Tonald doing guitar, a TLJ video that went through almost like a cavalcade of all the arguments.
We've tackled over the two years, all in one video.
It's been wonderful in its own way.
Then all those meme videos, loads of throwbacks.
Um, and all the meme images, loads of art.
All the very generous donations, a bunch of cameos from
Efap alumni, as well as lots of interactions with wolf and a debate between remarkable
Republican and shadow.
VST who could have seen that coming?
Wow, a blessing.
Truly a blessing.
It's a it's a Christmas miracle.
And yeah, there you go.
We had zero Christmas Efap streams and now we got two.
I will so as soon as we go offline, I'm going to start posting all the memes we covered into
the into the discord and I'll get the moolah version of the first half of the stream done
as soon as I can.
Um, thank you all for hanging out with us.
Like I said, we'll come back on Tuesday to do a super check catch up.
And then, um, yeah, it'll be is it Saturday is the plan for.
Yeah.
Next Saturday, Efap 66, where we will be talking about Rise of Skywalker, because that's where
we're at.
Execute.
We have 66 come full circle, guys.
Yes.
Um, anything else you want to say before we sign off?
It's just hard to believe that TLJ is what brought us together.
And it's finally time for the next Star Wars movie to be out.
It's because solo doesn't fucking count.
Do people still remember that movie happened?
I don't remember that there was a Han Solo movie.
It was really good.
Um, it was great.
But yeah, thank you for everything, folks.
And we will see you Tuesday.
Mm hmm.
Have a good one.
Goodbye.
