This is like the earliest efap ever
Yeah, it's not even 1 p.m. Here. I just feel it feels too bad man. It's one
Stream health orange. Oh, no
Starting off in a bad note. You don't want to be orange. The stream has joined us
Isn't that yellow? I?
Yellow is just a kind of type of orange isn't it like a weird orange. Yeah, no
Can't do this not now if only just begun
So yeah, hey hey people who are jumping in rather early
There are people I can't see the stream anywhere like oh, no, I see it
It doesn't just come up immediately. You've got to give it like a few seconds see I can even hear my own voice now
It's terrible
To give YouTube a chance to like figure out what's happening on its platform there
I put out a tweet just in case there are people out there who apparently freeing he's gonna be watching this someone's he's woken up
Cuz he's interested in he likes arrival or I can't remember said he liked arrival you might
Said he I think he said he liked arrival
Bring him on because it's then a balanced debate
Which is
What super this is one
Yes, oh
You know what?
There was a super chat after you I guess you did leave a lot of later last born right well if you had to go to
Did the thing you want to see a movie right? That was it?
Oh, yeah, I did someone asked who your favorite Lord of the Rings character was so assuming they watch all the episodes
You'll be able to dance for that now. Oh
I
Want to say I want to say Aragorn because of that one scene in fellowship at a mon hen where he just walks up to all
the my guess was that it was Aragon for you, but then I was like I
Part of it really wants to say Sam to
Choice because Aragorn is such a badass, but Sam is such a great character. I it's era anyone because she's a strong female character
She can travel at the speed of light, you know
She's impervious to bullets wolf tell the people who mine is he's never gonna discover the superpower, but she is Boromir
Yes, the correct answer
They used to hate Boromir when I first saw the movie like I thought he was they used to dislike him
Genuinely on my face watch sure but I was like he redeemed himself. I guess but
Yeah, as I grew over grew over grew older I
Gained a lot more appreciation for him
You guys hear about the Twitter vote that the Star Wars
Yes thing did
What was it? Oh, they put out. I don't have a picture of it, but they put out a vote that's basically said like
You know in the fantasy world whose team would you join?
the resistance or the first order
What's now what no what a strange question we'll see okay
Well, let's do our take on that first, right? So my immediate thought was like I have I I feel like most people are
Just gonna pick resistance because this I guess they're like, well, they're not the bad guys
I mean, you know when people say something like who'd you rather be the Empire or the rebels in like a video game?
probably Empire
Fuck those rebel scum, but trying to destroy everything we've created the Empire had cooler shit
Tear down our order and peace and stability
People fucking loved playing as the bad guys because playing as the bad guys is cool. Typically in fantasy stuff. Well, yeah
However with this what I was just like, yeah, I don't really want to pick either of them
But I guess I would go with resist. I don't even know but I was like, yeah, whatever
Look, I just wanna I just wanna settle down on my planet and with my space
Lady and
Have a space business and you know, just go to work, you know without with all this without all this shit getting in the way
That is guessing it was overwhelmingly the resist or the first order. It was 70% resistance now
Thinking like why would why is this even relevant? Is it just for a fun thing first talk? I was like, oh, no
No, no the tweet got deleted eventually
Because many people naturally many people said it was, you know promoting fascism as it is
Look why look if there's a wrong way to answer the question
Fuck did you ask the question?
They they retracted it. I guess they considered it a mistake
But like the way a lot of people and you know, this is just a coincidence
I feel like mentioning this
I don't know if you guys know about this but like you can get like this
Verified check mark on Twitter a lot of people with those were commenting on how it was like, you know
Attempted indoctrination like it's trying to tell people fascism is cool
Like it's it's it's very upsetting and I you know, they they were so right
Yeah, the the Star Wars Twitter handle I guess buckled and they were like, you know
Fuck better remove it cuz it's causing blatant damage
I like that the chat is still going with the Medea memes. There's a fascist idea order. It actually survived
Yeah
Course it survived. It was very
It was a powerful beam. There are some good ones on the in the comments of the last many we did
All right. Yeah, of course
That was probably mentioned that I guess yeah
So if anyone's listening to this we did a reaction to the the trailer for the new Star Wars thing
Wasn't exactly planned but it went pretty well. It was pretty yeah
Star Wars the rise of Medea
Nobody's ever really gone
Okay, just hear Medea's little cackling in the distance as they're watching the Death Star series of Medea I
Mean I'm all for it. I think Medea this could be it
You know from a deer stuff. I was just thinking by the way, we could do the same thing as Mission Impossible
We're so like video a fucking whatever that is
Like so mute the video and I can play like people's random people's video essays of arrival in the background
You know because there's gonna be plenty of them arrival is like Rick herring. I mean that works
I don't know who that is. But arrival must have let's literally type in arrival video essay
As the head of effect I I approve this idea, okay, I just want to wolf
I just wanted to know this there's a video called arrival. It's got 2.8 million views arrival a response to bad movies
That's by oh, I know I've seen I know who that's by nude writer
That one no, right is the guy who made video essays a thing that everyone does
If he proved anyone could do it
Dude this is dripping in pretentious arrival examining an adaptation arrival facing the fear of existence
Has a bunch of pretentious cunts making videos on it rafting morality through mystery
Oh, shut up movies morality is awful what arrival says about humanity
Hate this
Yeah, I'll just I'll have that in the background if everyone mutes their their respective watch togethers, yeah, we'll have visuals
Hopefully since these aren't copywritten strike did down. They should be fine for us to just play
I guess I'll drag it back a couple times for loading up like different ones or whatever. But yeah today
The the reason we're all collected is the the thing that we said we was gonna do a while ago
Which was talk about this movie because how did this happen? Is it because we like casually mentioned?
We thought it was crap and then people were like, whoa. Oh, I think that I thought it was good
I thought was how it started. Yeah, and then you said wolf isn't going to like this
And then people were saying wolf is wrong and now we're here. Yeah
So the context all four of us have seen it recently
I I guess we should we should we should get this said up front. This will be fun. I'm gonna make J go first
Jay, what would you arbitrarily and you don't have to stick to this?
What would you rate it out of 10 as as a quality of movie making it with five being average?
Give it
Five being average. I'd say probably a seven seven. All right. I'm gonna go next and then rags and then wolf
So I'm gonna
This this is this is this is to be qualified
Definitely. There's a lot of discussion to be had about these numbers, but I'm going with three out of ten personally rags
What would you have given it a ten and that's the idea is that we'll we'll do this again at the end of this
Potential discussion. Um, yeah rags. What would you give it out of ten? I'd probably give it a three two
That was what I was thinking. All right, and wolf
one
Oh
Well, no, I can't give it a zero we'll give it a one
Yeah, so I'm pretty sure the efap fan base as it stands is not happy with that a lot of people very much
Love this film. I'm very curious why you would well, we'll we'll we'll find out today, right? Well, I'll be explaining that
Don't worry. I got eight pages of notes to explain
It's like it's like a wolf review but it live for that. Yeah. Oh
And one thing I thought to mention people are upset that I referred to a musician guy in the last efaps wick as bad dubstep
Or whatever. I forget the guy's name isn't a Wolfenstein trailer
Yeah, I don't always know the specifics of music genres. I just it sounded generic to me
I'm sure the man makes better music or good music or I'm not you know
I'm just I'm just saying I didn't like it. That's all it wasn't exactly a part of a great trailer
I'm sure everyone can agree with that. So I know a lot of people were upset. So I wanted to make sure I mentioned it
Another thing the music itself wasn't necessarily bad, but the music choice and the context was awful
It just I thought yeah, and it just didn't seem I don't know like I'd have to listen to it without the trailer
There's context to see what I think again. Yeah
That and of course, we're gonna be doing some memes after this discussion as well
But other than that, yeah
We're pretty much good to go on this me and rags won't be talking as much more than likely
I'll be happy to interject when I think that there's something to add
This is mostly Jay and wolf because you know, they this is a this is a cruelty that's been done by wolf
He's taken six points down from from Jay's rating
But you know, we got to figure out which one of them is objectively wrong
But yeah, I mean if anyone else has anything before we go
I I'm totally I'm leaving up to you guys what kind of structure you want to do and how you want to start and finish
all of it
I mean I
I don't really know what the I'm I don't know what criticisms to expect being thrown at it
I've just watched it back like I literally finished it and then
jumped into the call
Did oh, that's a good question though. Did
Anyone's mind well rags only saw the ones
Uh, I remember it being slightly better
Sorry
I hope it stays that way. Oh, right. Yeah
Oh, the reason I said that was that um
I'm gonna ask if anyone's minds have been changed by watching it again sort of thing. So
It got worse on my subsequent watch through
Same with me. I thought it was much worse the second time than it was the first time
And what about you better better? All right
Uh with that yeah off you go folks because I got I got nothing else
All right, well, I guess i'll start since i'm the one that has the arguments against it
so
Uh, some of my main points the characters are impossibly stupid
The film uses emotional manipulation to trick the audience into caring about the characters and setting when that emotion really isn't earned
The film concocts artificial drama due to the impossibly dumb decisions of its characters because its premise is so boring
That it couldn't figure out a logical way to make it interesting
The progression of the plot is badly written aside from the cinematography, which is ruined by the ugly color grading and filters
Uh, there's really nothing redeemable about the film at all
The message is pseudo intellectual garbage and it's ethically repugnant despite portraying it in an overly positive right
or light, sorry
And uh, it really only scores a one out of ten in my book. I really hate this film
Suddenly tell some of that was scripted
I literally just read off my notes. I like I said, I wrote eight pages of this shit
I'm like damn it because none of those are the things that I was expecting you to say
What were you expecting me to say? I remember you gave like a little
Uh rundown you said before like you thought the the twist didn't make any sense
And yeah, that is going to be the characters being dumb was one of them as well
Do you want to go do you want to go one by one?
I feel like that makes sense. Yeah, uh, where do you want to go?
Say it
Would you want me to yeah
I'm, sorry. What was that?
Is it which of us are you asking today? Like oh what just to read you like the first one and then I mean that seems okay
Um, I guess i'll start off easy
Um with every character is a tard
um with the exception of amy adams and germany renner every character in the film is
Unbearable and they're dumb whenever they're on screen. All right, all of the supporting characters are done
Yeah, everyone everyone that is not amy adams and germany runner. So you agree with that?
Absolutely. Okay, so it's not a good start
Oh, I guess I win then you it's just uh, you can say like everyone but okay sure I
I lose the debate now
well
Do you actually concede that jay wouldn't you want to?
I think I mean I would say that they are such a small part of the film that it's like
I completely see there we go. Now we found someone to talk about go for it
characters that we get we don't get much time with any of like who's the
character who gets most green time who isn't one of the main two it's like
Uh, well, it's not really that they're badly
I mean, it's not the badly developed part that I have an issue with I mean, they are badly developed
But it was more so that every character that is not the main two
Are retarded that even includes the aliens
Um, so just to go off the very beginning of the film
When amy adams first meets forest wittaker
He gives her a low quality recording on an mp3 player thingy of a bunch of garbled nonsense. That's impossible to understand
He asks her what she thinks of it
She says the logical thing being that she'd have to analyze it in depth and be on site in order to decode anything
And forest wittaker then says that she's just trying to get on the ship and decides to go find her co-worker instead
Like when I first saw that and when I saw uh, the subsequent times
I just was dumbfounded by how dumb that man was acting
Which I do have that literally listed under
Uh page of my notes of dumb things
So uh note
Oh, oh you have that written down. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah the little recording
Yeah, I have a little list of dumb things that I thought I like just stuck out to me as i'm, sorry
Yeah, it's just really stupid and it's like it's illogical for him to have that response
Because her response was like the most logical well-reasoned answer possible
And he was just like oh you want to go on the alien ship then which is not at all what she said
Or what she was even implying for that matter
And that's just the beginning of the film. We haven't even talked about
He kind of screams I don't know these things so that someone gets to explain it to the audience
Yeah, one of the lines he has is something along the lines of like, uh
Uh god, like everyone's gonna end up go with a tsa pass or whatever is gonna end up there
And I found that really confusing because it's like wouldn't you you only have like the one
Language person like wouldn't it make sense to have heard there?
Like I don't I didn't know that he was letting everybody in
Like it's a really weird complaint to have when you're desperate for a translator
Especially like why would they send the military instead of like some government officers and why would they give her a choice rather than just taking her?
Why would they give her a choice? I don't know. I I think I would agree that I mean if
I mean if they're going to try and talk to aliens and she's I think the movie establishes
She's like one of if not the best
linguists in the world
Like if they need her they're going to just take her not just be like hey
I don't know if I agree with that
I think you're really underestimating the kind of shit the the american government more than they said that they had other
linguists to try first
Yeah, they might do it if they were desperate, but they have plenty of options for I mean wouldn't this be a situation
Wouldn't this be a situation where they would try their best to get everyone no matter the cost
I mean, I can see that
They wouldn't want do you think you think they'd want as many as possible there?
Yeah, probably as many of the top linguists possible. Yeah, I mean I think
One is like too few. I don't think as many as possible would be
I think would probably be too many
I think they'd want more than one but they probably wouldn't want like a hundred or anything
And I would imagine that this is such a breakthrough event in human history
That linguists would be all over themselves to go and check it out
Yeah, I mean that's why he has the reaction of or you just want to get in the ship
Yeah
When he says that but he's I see where he's coming from
He seems to want people to be trying to translate it from just that recording, which is really stupid to me
but then
Here predicting that that other guy wouldn't get a sanskrit word
Correct seems to convince him to take her to the site, which again, I think is
I think yeah, I mean he was already planning to in the first place
So it doesn't really make sense that he would just be like, oh, well, he doesn't read sans script
Which I don't really know how that's relevant to aliens. But you know, he fucked up a language thing. That means he's completely useless
Why not take them both?
I mean the more hands who can work on this the better, right?
But anyway, um
Because the other thing you need to do is the house, you know
These stupid things that they're doing how serious are these as flows to the film then you'd have to extrapolate because there are stupid
Of things that happen that have way more consequences than he presents her a gobbled noise and says hey do the thing
It was such a stupid thing to do because if you're trying to get her on your side
Why would you then be incredibly antagonistic toward her when she gives you like a well-willed
response
I think I said to mauler during her viewing I was like
I really hope they don't turn him into stupid army man trope guy
Well, that's uh what they did with all the army man people how many how many like supporting characters are there
Because i'm i've got two
There was forest wittaker. There was the soldier dude. There was the dude with like the curly hair
Oh, yeah, he was like he was just like
Aggravating to watch his channel general and the chinese general dude. Don't forget
Oh, yeah him too. It was fine. I thought uh, I guess you can count the daughter too. I said sanskrit
I didn't say sand script that was
Probably wolf
That's what you're like right in the beach. Like you take a stick. I only I only know it because of angel
Sand script
Sand script is something they read an angel
A sand script is when you're like right on the beach. I hate sand script
Uh, I guess you can count the two aliens
Not really much of a character though. Well, I guess we'll get into like whether or not they're done when we talk about the twist
Yeah, I think aliens. That's the same thing
Yeah, there are things you could argue that are dumb about the aliens potentially we we could possibly get there. But yeah
Like the dumb thing is that the movie implies one of them just sort of stands there
to get blown up
when
Let's notice that that's going to happen
Let's stop right there. We'll get to that. Don't worry. We're going chronological at this point. We may as well
Yeah
I'm not here to say that everything in the movie makes perfect sense. I just I I think it's better than possible to do one
And i'm ready to have like seven yeah i'm ready to be like i'm ready to be like, oh, oh no
Definitely at some point. All right. All right
Well, let's keep it moving. What else we got?
Uh, well just to end off with the forest wittaker first scene thing
It really just comes off as like a really horribly written dan brown style plot device to thrust the main character into
This position rather than coming up with something less idiotic and having him be like you just want to go on the ship
I'm gonna find somebody else instead
Which is dumb because that's what he wanted it for anyway
Literally just cut that pie out and it's better. Why does octopus keep appearing on the stream?
Wow jay way to deflect
No, I i'm sorry. I just an octopus was suddenly on the screen and i'm like what's going on? I don't know
It's a video essay who fucking knows?
Um
So basically with all the all the side characters in general
They're all dumbed down in order to trick the audience into sympathizing with amy adams and germany runner because they're the ones that are
Like at least somewhat logical and nobody else is
So it's a really lazy device to try and make everyone else a babbling idiot
To make them seem smarter
uh
They're not really even particularly smart from what the movie shows aside from being the only two that have like more than a single functioning brain cell
Because they even make stupid decisions in the movie and we'll get to that
The rest of it the forest witsca isn't he I mean he asks a lot of questions
But he's always happy to accept the answers for the majority of it. He's always he's
He's like more just can you explain this to me rather than?
I disagree because army man
Um, like he says explicitly he says explicitly
Can you explain this to me because I have to explain it to a room of people whose first question will be how can this be?
Gives him the kangaroo story and he says I can play that for now. I was like, I remember being like you can
She just admits it's not even true immediately after
But yeah his uh
He's he's less dumb in most of it than he is at the beginning
He's just sort of he asks a lot of questions that the answer may be obvious
But it's still good to get the explanation. I thought yeah, I mean that's like the most obviously dumb thing. He says in the movie
Um, it's more he goes along with the other stupid people throughout the rest of the film
Uh, the army is just treated deciding with him that much
I mean he he respects their opinions, but he doesn't seem to like agree with them
Yeah, um
Yeah, sure
Uh, you see it at a point I went I guess so jay wins everybody ding
Um, so despite the fact that the aliens are never doing anything harmful in the movie at all for like weeks or months
However long it takes
uh
Definitely over a month
Yeah, I I don't the movie doesn't explicitly tell you how long it's been but it definitely seems like weeks have gone by
There's a long line where it's been months. Yeah, it's been oh it is. Okay. Yeah
Okay
At least a month at least a month. There we go
So at least a month has gone by these aliens have done literally nothing but try to talk to us
But it seems like every character is going well out of their way to
Just artificially create drama by going to war with a peaceful alien race
They never leave their show would happen
No, of course not
Do you you don't think okay months have gone by the among us and that even after months like yeah
Yes, yes, we'll talk about that
But here's the thing months have gone by and the military's like let's go to war with them. Even though they've done absolutely nothing
Don't you think that's a little retarded the provocation for them going to war in the first?
Uh in the first place is them saying that they're there to give a weapon
They're I mean the whole thing is that they don't understand the language as soon as the word
keeps being brought up they're like, okay
War
Yeah, because they're all idiots everyone in this movie is retarded
Because you see the thing is is despite the fact that the aliens never do anything throughout the entire movie months have gone by
They have shown no hostile intentions whatsoever
They haven't affected the ecosystem or the population in any way because of a misunderstanding in communication
China decides oh we're going to go to war with them without a clarifying for a second of the china get that message
Does that message go to the public?
Give weapon. It's explicit. I have to say
Did that get out or was that deliberately released?
Does not sound like a smart thing for a government to do the alien said give weapon, you know what I mean?
It's not I don't think they say explicitly whether it was leaked or released or whatever. They just say that
They received the message give weapon and yeah, and then
If you can if we were to concede that that's kind of a dump, but we'll leave it alone
uh
Not let the public know that the aliens have barely any clue how to use the language
And then I just want to I just want to add the little thing on top
The the they immediately like proactively go we need to ask them if that was a mistake or we need to correct blah blah blah
The scene in which why didn't they do that when they were there?
That's it. Yeah, because we needed another scene wolf
Because here's the thing is to leave so the people can get a bob in the room
Yeah, so here's the thing, you know, um, the movie establishes I think it's 18 hours between
Uh when the hole at the bottom of the ship opens up. Is that
Correct 18 hours. I think yeah, I think so. Yeah, the whole so everyone's saying use weapon. What was the actual message?
Use weapon it was I thought it was like give weapon but they get different ones and uh
um, the one that china is quoted as having is use weapon the ones that the uh americans get
Off a weapon. Okay
Yeah, so they clearly don't know I know we're getting in the chat suck and eat weapon
That must have been earlier like the message is the aliens are in chat
Weapon milk
Fuck but here's the thing you just made me spit my drink all over myself
So here's the thing jade months have gone by movie establishes this rather than
Asking them for clarification right there they go back to the base
The 18-hour period hasn't passed yet. Jeremy renner says something to the effect of we still have time to go back and ask them
Why wouldn't they ask them right there? Yeah, I think that's done and then
Setting that aside without a second thought they're going to say
They're going to go to war with them because of
Well, yeah, but then pretty much that thought process but
Yeah, but then every other country follows suit
There are no, there are two countries that follow suit
America evacuates their site
What are they starting to do in the narrative correctly they they can they do a
A plea to convince everyone to not engage in warfare and china's anyone that holds out right at the end
And then she gets to russia
Russia, yeah russia and somewhere in the I think it was korea. Maybe
I thought it was an african country, but I couldn't tell you which one. Yeah, I don't remember what the third one was
But I know russia was in on that too
uh, but here's the thing if they were
Maybe but um without a second thought like months have gone by they've done absolutely nothing
And yet they're going to go to war with them because of a misunderstanding in a single sentence without asking for clarification
So here's where it gets really stupid
If they wanted war why would they spend months trying to tell them that they wanted to go to war with them?
Rather than just going to war with them
Well
I'm, so do you like I that's not what they wanted though. So their behavior isn't unrealistic. I find
Like china sensationalizing the response and reacting really badly to it
I don't find that unrealistic is like a human response to something. I think would this be
What you have to wait wait, would this be my client is insane
I mean
I suppose but it's not I don't think it's like in which case
other behavior
I mean
It's really irrational and retarded and the one thing i'd like to clarify as well. They do make it very explicit
There is nothing about the ships or the their atmosphere or aura or anything that's recognized
As in yeah, we have no clue what anything would do to them
And we just wanted the china just want to fire rocket at it. It's just like yeah
Don't make it clear what their plan of attack would be
But they just say the word to declare war. I think it's yeah, it's dumb to pick a fight with an opponent bigger than you
Well, they imply it they because all the warships are there outside of the object it flies. So it's not going to be nukes
They're just gonna like shoot bullets and rockets at it
Well, no, no, they won't know because their guys are right. They wouldn't want to nuke themselves. That's right. I mean they could have
Did do we see that they weren't there before were they arriving just for that because I mean militarizing the site seems like something
They would do anyway, that's one thing
But again, we're talking months have gone by they have done absolutely nothing rather than clarifying a message
From a sentence that they didn't understand
Then they decide to go to war with them
Rather than just asking about it. Why would they the aliens from the perspective of us if we're like the military general in china
Why would we immediately think oh the aliens are telling us they're going to attack us after months of doing nothing
Why would they do that?
They don't think that the aliens are telling us that they're going to attack us
It's made pretty clear that they think the aliens are trying to divide us apart by giving us weapons
They're trying to get us to destroy ourselves. There's no proof of that
There's no things in the film. There's a line of that. No, there's no proof of that
That is in the film, but there's no proof of it as in
Well, they how would they do how are they dividing us?
They're struggling to explain a thing through a language. They don't understand that makes sense
I mean sure. Yeah, I yeah, I I agree that the
It's not
It could they could act more rationally because unfortunately the the film does it for us immediately
She's like they could be confusing weapon with tool and it's like that's already enough
Yeah, in which case why would they even use weapon?
Yeah, that that's the conversation about how dumb the aliens are you could totally jump into that if you want
It's not how dumb the aliens are it's how dumb the humans are because no the aliens are stupid
The aliens are magnificently stupid. They are the dumbest people
Okay, maybe not the dumbest but they're one of the they're one of the dumbest I guess characters in the film
The aliens are incompetent
This is how dumb the humans are because the human interpretation of the word is weapon like we have learned what that word is
Well, they had to teach them weapon in order to
They had to teach them the word weapon in order to have an understanding of weapon
Interpreting they were interpreting the alien exactly that they were interpreting the alien symbols
So at some point the aliens would have had to refer to like a gun and like a knife as weapons and they go
Okay, that's a weapon
but then the alien but you know because
They they don't give us a direct translation. They don't go they don't show us their symbol and they go this means weapon
They show us their uh symbol and then from context to extrapolate what it means
Why would they I mean look amy adams has that whole like spiel where she wipes out part of the whiteboard and
She explains how they need to break down every single little part. Why would she not do that with tool and weapon?
I
Wouldn't even
Teach them an entire vocabulary in like a month. You don't even necessarily need this argument
You can skip to the fact that the aliens can see the future and they choose to use a word that nearly fucks everything up
Yeah, yeah, but nearly they can see
We're just gonna skip to the future thing because this is the thing that's the whole movie retarded
How I've I've looked at this I've thought of a how all right do that do that that's the big boy
Okay, okay, let me scroll down through. Oh, wow. Really? That's the oh, I thought that was the worst thing about this film
Yeah, okay. I thought that killed. Okay. So, um, jay
Would you agree that their language in some way?
I I don't know how but we we can agree that the language in whatever way tells the future
Or at least allows you to look into the future. Yeah
So the aliens so the aliens can tell the future then yeah, that's fine. Okay, so
They are kind of spiders. Yeah, they have seven words. You look like spider. Oh my god. They're just malformed spiders
Okay, so if they can tell the future then why is it that they even need the humans help to do anything?
Well, the humans will be able to tell the future by that point
They've given us the ability to tell the future as well. Yeah, why would they need us to do that?
The notion of help is left so vague in it. They could literally be anything
Well, why would they need our help if they can tell the future though? Yeah, remember
To tell the future doesn't mean you can do literally anything
I mean they're okay. So
Wait, so on one hand it could literally be something we can't even conceive of in terms of help
However, could you even suggest one scenario?
Anything in which they would require our help when they can see the future sure there are there are like they have a really low
population like that's just how they are and
Thousands of years of development that we've had after
This encounter and us being able to tell the future our technology has far surpassed theirs and they need our help defending themselves
Why wouldn't they be able to be able to or why would they not be able to?
Create better technology or move somewhere else to get their population back up
Well, they can tell the future three thousand years
How how would they how is there like a scenario where like they've got a planet they live on
There's not another planet they can move to that's like that they can get to
If you can get to earth you can get anywhere
What we can get to earth
We started on earth rags doesn't mean when starting from it
Going to earth is not traveling
Yeah, but like if you can we can get to the moon like we don't know how far away they started from we don't know
How far they're just there it's our inner stellar
This is all like a looked out into space, right?
Now we haven't found any signs of any
Intelligent lives see like what's on individual planets that uh, we haven't seen any messages
I believe we can't see what's on individual planets from outside. So do you think we can't rule out that they're from our solar system?
No, I think we can rule out that they're from our solar system. They can travel the solar system at the very least
That's quite a distance in traveling and here's the thing giving even calling what they do traveling
Is charitable considering that especially at the end they simply warp
We literally we don't know how any of the technology works
So it doesn't contradict so they don't travel they don't travel in the sense of like typical locomotion
It could be the fucking like the jump points from guardians where the jump points are in location
I know it can't actually because they travel from low to ignore that
Uh, but there could be like limitations to it that we don't understand but it's never it's never explained in any real way
Like do you really think like the the notion that they could need anything from us like literally anything in terms of help?
Like maybe we've just got more find it extremely hard to believe that anything someone comes up with for why they need our help
They wouldn't be a better alternative. Yeah, especially considering that they have three thousand years to prepare for it
universe at their fingertips
They can tell that they need this backwater
primitive planet filled with apes to help them like I don't I don't know
Develop with the ability to see the future and so do they but like that
It's surely it is possible that there is a way in which they could
Derive help from us. No, it might not even be like vital. Why would they need?
Why would they need help because if they could tell they can tell them they would know the result anyway
Not to mention by the way, they tell us that it's in a thousand years. Is it?
3000 3000 years and that's when we're going to help them feels like we need
Quite a decent chunk. I'm not even like I barely even want to go into it
But like how does the human race evolve over 3000 years when we can see the future? How does that even like?
They know
They know you're right. They do
I mean, we don't necessarily need to know the exact reason why they need help
It's just the fact that if they can see into the future, why would they need help from anything?
They can just counteract whatever the future is going to be. What if they're running out of a resource and we have
Then go to a different planet here. I think the point is a limit a resource that they don't have
No, no
The point is that they if they can tell the future they already know the answer to their problems
And they know that that answer right and the film is telling us that that answer is to talk to us and give us this technology
What I have to concede here is the film is telling us
Definitively these aliens have this ability and they still need our help. It's almost unbelievable like completely unbelievable
But apparently that is the case
But I don't I just don't see it as being there's way more that gets worse
This is this is one of the easier points to let go i'd say wolf
It gets way worse than this when you start digging into the ball
I I still have more to say about the time travel thing beyond that. Oh, yeah
I mean if we're going to talk about the time travel thing if they can
Or time travel, sorry seeing into the future if they can see into the future then why on earth?
Would they ever say let's only give them one twelfth of the language be extremely like not clarify the difference between
A gift which is what they mean to say and a weapon when they know what's going to happen. We've already covered
Weapon well, we'll follow maybe we'll help you out here if you can tell the future. Why are you not speaking in english?
They can't speak english too. They can understand it. Anyway
Yeah, they can't understand english. They
That why don't they write in it?
Why would they why wouldn't they try their hair to speak out?
JJ hold on. Oh, so their their whole idea right is that they need to get the humans help
For whatever they need help with 3000 years down the line, right?
Sure
Okay, so why would they risk the destruction of their species to do that rather than just being explicit and telling them what they want?
They're not risking anything. They know exactly how it's going to turn out
Why would they make it so that they have to get into this situation with artificial drama rather than just telling them what they want?
within seconds
Uh, so what are you suggesting they do?
Tell them what they want
Literally say it in english exactly what their intentions are and then provide the language and then leave
Yeah, they know the future so they they know english. They know how
I'm i'm not sure how I feel about this
Um, but I think the film is trying to tell us that
They are here as well to help us unite
That they yeah, I know it's gonna be a globalism theme. It's not gonna work
That's not an argument. I don't care about the theme
No, no, not that it is the theme but that's why they make that decision
Why would they go for a theme like to you guys all just need to work together? No, they need help
So just tell them what they need
3000 years and they literally know that what they do works out because they can see the future
Why would they do it in such a stupid way though?
Pick it why well because they're trying to get us like to unite. Why is why would they even care?
Why would we need to be united to help them?
I mean 3000 years down the line even without this ability to see into the future
We're already going to be like a space faring species
What does it take every last human being to figure out?
Wait, so I want to I want to this is from chat. I'm gonna keep an eye on checks
There's gonna be a lot of people who are fans of this film
So this is like i'll just ask if jay or wolf accept this the aliens don't tell the future
They're experiencing time over the entire spectrum instead of linearly, which means they don't have free will they just follow causality
Then what's the point in the language?
Well, I was just gonna first of all do you do either of you accept that hold on?
That's retarded. That is mentally retarded
And i'm going to explain why because if they don't have free will nothing's going to change
Then what's the point of the language that tells you the future if you already know the future can't be altered
Well, I guess it means that you can't you don't have free will once you learn the language
That doesn't make sense though
What I would I would I remember there was a line in the film where amy adams looks at hawkeye and asks him if
You could see your entire life
Would you change it? Yeah
So apparently if we are to accept that that the aliens can't
Change things despite seeing the future, but amy adams can
Yeah, I don't like how deterministic the whole thing is
I'm pretty sure it is this ability. She doesn't she doesn't change the future though. So it's like she can think about it
But she goes with it. She does
She like we don't learn that she can change the future
Well, she asks would you change it? Would you change anything?
Yeah, and remember I think that's right. She's not demonstrated the ability to she's just she does
They definitely do she she told hawkeye she knew the kid was going to die and she still chose to have it
That's not changing the future because that's already what she's using not to change the future
But that's not changing the future. Well, you think she couldn't change the future
Well, I but the movie is telling us that it's all deterministic. So she knows what's going to happen
Therefore she makes these decisions because she knows what's going to happen and that's what happens
Why would she why would she be telling us?
Why would she make the decision to manipulate hawkeye and lie to him?
And basically use him as cattle so she can have a kid that's going to die young and in pain
Unless she's just a morally twisted human being so
She hang on you're saying she manipulates. Yes, she manipulate him
Because the movie establishes that she did not tell him that their daughter was going to die despite knowing this
And then he leaves her because of that
That's true. I yeah
That's literally manipulation though from oof oof. We have to follow the causality
We are unable to change things
But we are consciously aware of our actions that we are taking creating the illusion of free will
I do not agree that this film posits that amie adams could not change her own future
Yeah, I think it really strongly suggests the opposite. Yeah, my evidence would be a very question
I think it it's saying that like
Everything is essentially determined by
The decisions you make anyway because when it comes down to it everyone is
Has got the decisions they make oh and by the way to clarify he keeps saying wouldn't you say the same about dr
Strange and infinity wall. I've literally said that about dr. Strange in infinity war several times
on this also
decisions to make
then
That kind of defeats the purpose of your point
I don't like the idea that everything is deterministic, but I think within the idea of a deterministic universe this movie
Doesn't doesn't shit on that idea
I think it works if you assume everything is deterministic
Which this movie does I mean if everything's deterministic then like what would be the point of the language?
Because that's the thing that gives you the ability to see into the future, but if the future is
Anything
If everything is deterministic then by knowing the future everything is deterministic like in a
I'm trying to think think of the words to say this well
It happens differently because you know the language, but it's always gonna help because how would it be different if it's well, okay, so
like
Okay, okay, you have a fucking piece of food and if you don't eat that food you starve to death
Well, you were always going to eat that food
But because the food was there you didn't eat
Stuffed to death the same as like can be said of the language
You're always going to use the language and then the language is going to help you to do things you couldn't do and that was
That's always going to be the decision you would make no, I I think that's that's a flawed analogy. I don't accept it
So for clarification am I understanding this correctly?
What they see as future flashes were
As a result of their decisions regardless. It was always going to be that result
I I believe that is what the movie is telling us. Yeah
Anything anyone sees
uh, wait, but okay, so
This is this is this is why my brain's having trouble with this. You remember the scene with her in the general where she's like
Chocked that he's walked up to her and then shocked that he shows her the phone. She's confused
She has no idea what's going on. Then he whispers in her ear, you know, blah blah blah blah and then she's like, uh
Okay, I guess I understand now
And that gives her the ability to say all the stuff in the past, right?
Yeah, that future flash is now null and void
It will not go that way when she gets to that point in the future that time
She will understand exactly what's happening. She won't be confused this time around
That future flash is absolutely a future flash
That changes the past and thus changes the future isn't it implied that she like experiences time out of sequence rather than just so
Actually, I I have a graph for this smaller. I have a graph
Yeah, you have a graph. I I have a graph. He has a graph
I hated the reaction. Also, I just want to say people in chat who keep repeating stuff like maula wolf rags
You have no idea what you're talking about. That's not an argument. Yeah, that's yeah
That's um, that's the chris nolan argument where everyone thinks they're smart because they got the movie
Yeah, well the zach snider argument where the dcu movies are way better and you just can't understand the points
I think they make some good points. I think that they're right because they're on my side make arguments guys
I'll do my best to read them, but don't tell us we don't understand anything
It's not going to make you look any better than the chakra spamming graph milk
Okay, well if you can I posted it in the in our chat so we can all look at it
okay, so
We have two timelines. We have timeline a which is basically the movie and then there's timeline b which goes pretty much the same way
only the third option or third link rather is um
Different depending on which timeline in the first timeline. There's nothing
We don't know how we get from explosion to aliens leave
So she has to use a language that by the way the movie describes it says very explicitly. She only knows
1 12th of this language. Do you agree with that j?
Uh, i'm not sure that's how it works. Does she know the
She doesn't it's not that they're giving. Um, well, here's the thing right because
Um hawkeye makes this graph and we can talk about how stupid he made the graph
Um where it shows that there is 1 12th of the language present. Oh, yeah, that part was done
Yeah, so I we can't we can't even assume that she even understands in full that entire 1 12th
But just for argument's sake we will say that she understands the entire 1 12th
There's still 11 12ths of that language left. So only understanding 1 12th of that language
She manages to see into the future to find this point where she sees uh general shang
And general shang unceremoniously for absolutely no reason whatsoever. And I actually got the quote pulled up here. Let me
Find it real quick
He says he shows her the phone and then shows her her or tells her rather
exactly what his wife told him when she died
And where did I write down this fucking quote here?
Also, yeah, so just just a few chat things so said like it's almost like typing in chat is more challenging than speaking in vc mola
Yes, that's true. That's why you don't say. Oh, you guys don't understand anything
Why why would you choose to do that instead of do something like try and comment on it? Okay
Okay, so I got the quote here the exact quote from general shang was now, you know
I do not claim to know how your mind works, but I believe it was important for me for you to see that
So for no reason whatsoever
He gives her his phone number in timeline b he tells her in timeline b exactly what his wife told him
Hold on i'm almost done
And she he tells her what his wife told him she uses this information in timeline b
Because he just decided randomly for no reason to give her this information to go back to timeline a with information
She could not have possibly gotten from timeline a to get it to the point where the aliens leave and nothing bad happens
You're assuming there is a timeline a it's not
It's like the terminator universe where everything have always happened as it did happen because time travel
Why would she have to go find a conversation where the guy just randomly says some
It's a circle like it's it loops back on itself
But when the circle is there the circle works and when the circle isn't there the circle doesn't work like in terminator
Or terminator 2 the one i've seen
I so it's oh that doesn't make any sense. How would you in terminator 2 the the or in harry potter?
Which one ever has time travel?
It's the same but they execute it as well
You understand why wolf would have done this because that shang scene can't happen
Twice it can only happen once
Like the way that it did it has to change. So it can't be a circle
So her reaction to it is dumb
So the idea that everything loops around because it all like closes the loop by blah blah blah
She should be reacting to that scene as if she knows exactly what's happening
Yeah, which would actually agree that it would fix the film a little bit more
If the idea was that this is all predetermined but she but she explicitly says I don't know your phone number
So he gives it to her
Suggesting is that that scene is fucked because it screws it it throws out the whole loop idea
But I the loop idea is there. I just think that scene goes against it
It's the loop the loop idea is like clearly there another okay
But we're suggesting that that scene supports our theory
Which is that she can see into the future and thus change the past to alter the future
Well, no, she can see into the future. That doesn't mean she's changing the past when she does it
No, i'm saying you look into the future
And through that learn things or do things see things that allows you to do things
She was seeing
She would in that version of the future that she was seeing
To for shang to know to do any of that. He would have to have known what happened actually
Yeah, that highlights another problem. That shouldn't even be something she can see
How so because it wouldn't have happened
And the version of the timeline that isn't the one that we get isn't yeah, if it isn't a loop it wouldn't have happened
If that never happened, it wouldn't have happened, but it did happen. So it does is is how it
Is how the movie is putting it but either yeah, so either there's multiple timelines and it's all fucked or it is a loop
But they screwed up that scene
Yeah, I I
I'm happy to think they screwed up the one like her reaction to it
Doesn't work because they wanted to get it like they wanted it to be surprising
But it doesn't really flow with the rest of what they're trying to say
I mean what it really acts as that whole shang scene
What that comes across to me as the writers were too stupid to think of a way to get themselves out of this scenario
So they had to literally use time travel to bullshit their way into getting something else. Time travel was clearly planned from like
The whole thing was the whole point of it, right that's the language unlocks time travel almost
not like not in the typical sense because we understand it more of a
It allows you to view time in a non-linear fashion like fucking dr. Manhattan
Sure
The problem is now you mean weapon opens time that's we have to like the problem is like going forwards
You have to run on one or the other
Assumption it goes going with waltz timeline thing, right? Everything falls apart
There's nothing in the movie that makes any sense when you actually consider all of this stuff
Uh with the loop like rags?
Well, if you follow in this the idea is that everything's predetermined from the get-go
It was all a loop and just here flashing forward to allow the future to happen was just because it was always going to happen
That way is the idea
Um, the only contention I imagine you guys might have is just that
Would you like it is hard to grasp that she would have these flashes and do nothing about them
If you know what, I mean, she doesn't because she doesn't have any reaction until like the fourth or fifth one
Like she just keeps having them and they conveniently happen
Hold on. Hold on. Sure these these flash forwards conveniently happen whenever she doesn't know what to do
It's a plot device a really shitty one
To push the story forward because she can't figure it out herself
And she doesn't question it until the end when she goes into the ship
One of the points one of the points where the flash forwards tell her what to do
Yes, no, sorry. No, i'm sorry. I'm asking. Can you give an example of that?
Oh, uh, there's one where she was trying to figure out
A word. I don't remember exactly what the word or no was a term. Wasn't it? No, that I know
I've that's the other way around in the future. She uh
Like we see her we see it happen in the future and then in the past she gets the answer
And then in the future she yeah, but she was just however without anybody hold on
Well, your memory doesn't give you flash forwards jay
No, because the because the thing that she's remembering the thing that helps her out in the situation she's in
The future version of the one is the thing that's helped is the thing
She's the thing
No, the what the future version is the one that's helped by what's happening in the past not the other way around
No, no, no, no, you're wrong about that because she has helped in the past because she has you know
She's not well she goes she has those flash forwards
She's helped by whatever is happening with her daughter
And then she uses the information with that daughter that she just conveniently never says anything about or has any reaction to
Until the end to use in the normal timeline
The the one that's coming to mind is when she was looking for a specific word
That's the other way around she's looking for the word in the future and then it happens in the past and she remembers it in the future
She doesn't need to look for a word in the past. She keeps having these flash forwards though jay
Yeah, she does have the flash forwards
But so the flash forwards conveniently happen at the exact same time that she just happens to figure out what it was she needed
The I I suppose so that is I will agree that it's done
But it's not what you were saying
The movie is very much implying that it's because of the flash forwards that she gets the answer in the past
Using a language she doesn't
Certainly with the general
And yeah, we yeah in that scene
Yeah, but in the scene where she's looking for a zero sum game one is the reverse. Yeah. Yeah
That's the term
She's looking for a term in the future like and then
She's getting flash forwards to where she needs the term and then like in the present day
She hears the term and then the future version of her knows the term, but it couldn't just argue
That's just how memory works anyway
I was gonna say can you just argue that the future one was remembering that time in the past at that point?
That's what we were viewing. I think the way that it was supposed it was supposedly telling us
I think that was there to to try and show us that um
and incidentally this might make the shank scene work as well if i'm
If i'm if i'm thinking about it, right?
I think that scene is to show us that like it's not
When her flash for when she gets her flash forwards
It's not she's not getting a flash forward to like
Her at that point in time where she's actually got all her memories like her consciousness directly goes from where she is at that time
To the future and like she's in control of her actions in the future as if to say. Oh, I was just in the past
Your timeline is just completely out stitched. It's all over the place
Yeah, it's like she doesn't experience her life chronologically anymore
But she does experience the parts that are relevant to each other next to each other
Yes, yes conveniently when the plot needs to move forward. I mean well, it's the
Sure, if it's a like it's it's a man-made thing of like or you know, fucking heptapod made thing the language
It's supposedly so a tool that they use
So they can potentially get the information they need when they need it
I've been i've been looking up determinism pre-determinism
fatalism hard determinism
And then looking over at timelines here if we agree that there's multiple timelines
Then surely there's some aspect that causes timelines to diver. We don't necessarily agree that there were multiple timelines
I always there was a loop. It was one time
One big timeline loop. There's one timeline, but it all happens like out of all that. Yes
Does the scene of her reaction to cheng?
Does that not show that there are differences it make no it makes sense if she's experiencing what happens
Like what happens and what always happens, but she's experiencing it out of order. I think i'm getting what you're saying jay
The only thing is that it's extremely convenient
But but the weapon that humanity is given as a gift is convenient to what needs to happen because they know that's what needs to happen
like yeah
But and then it begs the question of just
What in the world were the aliens thinking having it all run this way instead of you know, like it all relies on her
she's almost
The integral part of all of this they know that they can rely on her because they know the future that's not my point
My point is like you have like let's just say the doctor strange and they can see all of the uh
The many different uh outcomes they go with the one that is the closest to failure without failing
Yeah, I agree. That's that's a thing. That seems strange. No, I don't I'm not saying they shouldn't either
It's convenient. It's still it's done in avengers too and they're not gonna be able to explain it in endgame
I'm almost certain of it
This is absolutely a plot contrivance. I agree. I am so what I agree that it's a plot contrivance
So when time rolls forward and she in the quote unquote proper time is meeting with cheng in person
Will she still act surprised?
No, I don't think
I think it's that um
She's not she's never going to do that again because she's out. She's experiencing her own life out of sequence
But but there is there is going to be a physical person talking to cheng
You know that eventually catches up and that physical person has
Essentially the consciousness of her several years ago when she was jumping forward
So you assume the consciousness of you at another time?
Essentially like her it sounds insane, but I think that's what they're actually arguing for is actually showing us happen
So that's what the scene that's what the scene
Her continuity is all over the fucking place
Is kind of what that's what the scene where she can't remember a word in the future shows us because she's in the future
She can't think of a word and then and then she goes back to like the present day
And then someone says she essentially hijacks yourself at different points in the timeline. Yeah, that seems to be how it works
So the person so she essentially
dies
And something else her from another time takes her place
And then after I mean she's out. She's just like out of order the idea rags. I think like
Make of this what you will
It's like you transport to 10 years in the future with a conversation with some guy about a hammer
And then you come back to here where i'm like i'm fucking tired of trying to look for the right hammer and then you just go
But you're like almost confused from
But where do I go when I hijack myself?
Like well, you're not experiencing things
It's almost like think of time pausing when you were with me and you go and experience five minutes in that part of the future
Then you come back to me
Then you may go 10 years in the past and then you could eventually you live through all of it question mark
I'm, not even sure if that's true. If i'm if i'm experiencing those things
as another person
Where does my where what is that current cell?
So wherever you're not to be anywhere wherever you're not is paused. Let's just say that
There doesn't have to be like a version of you to
It's not like a physical
Transportation. Yeah, I mean don't I know but if your consciousness is experiencing something
From another perspective and you have control of your body's reaction to it
It's like
there's only like one consciousness in you at a time and
Like you just switch the memories that you have like the things that you last experienced essentially switch around
So most randomly or or with some it seems to have some kind of design in the movie when it's with
But the problem I have I think if if I buy all of this
Is that uh what we saw in the movie was there was never a non-relevant
February pretty much ever
Or never like a series of events are all
What is exactly needed to make everything happen if you know that?
I don't think there's enough in the movie to support this
I would say that I would say that it's probably like my head cannon would be that it's an intelligently designed like
Tool that they are using so it's going to give you the things you need when you
I don't think that's unreasonable, but it's not in the film. It's just my head cannon. Jay
So yes, you're you're wrong about her remembering the past
because
Because when she goes into the alien ship for the final time when she goes up there herself after abbot dies
She has another vision of the child and she says uh, I'm paraphrasing a little I don't have the exact quote with me right now
Why do you keep showing me this child?
She addresses
She addresses that all those flash forwards are happening at that time
She is plucking information from the future that she doesn't understand
That she just happens to never have any reaction to as it happens
And using that information from the future
In the present and she addresses it in the film on the ship to the aliens making her see the visions
So you're saying that her consciousness doesn't change
Is that the point you're making that her consciousness doesn't go into the future
I'm saying that you're wrong. I'm saying that you're wrong when you say that the future is her plucking from the past
She is plucking from the future. No, no, no, that's not what i'm saying. That's not what i'm saying
Uh, i'm saying that her like it's not her like plucking from anywhere. It's essentially
It's all a strainer in which she experiences things
More you seem to get what i'm saying like
He's yeah, like think of time from a to b to c to d all the way to thousands of letters
It's almost like it was split up and then thrown all around into one line
My issue is less with that and more with how she experiences the right things at the right time to make this movie happen
If that was the concept
And it is because she pulls she literally addresses it in the film
Well, it's the her saying why do you keep showing me this boba could be argued that she just doesn't understand what's happening
And she said really need to pee. So I will i'm gonna just like take a second
In in the middle of this debate that i'm in it's all right to go pee
Okay, evacuate
um
So does this film take the determinism or the pre-determinism position? I guess it depends on whatever argument you want
Surely because the idea is that it's all done ahead of time and we're just watching it play out and she's experiencing
She's experiencing a linear set timeline out of order
And by the nature of it being out of order to begin with she can
Experience things in the future that allow things to happen in the past that cause the future question mark
Well, the thing is is like if it's all pre-deterministic
Then it makes the whole point of the looking into the future language pointless
It makes it null because if you if you can see the future, but you can't change it
Then there's no point to looking into the future
It's really fucking stupid
It's insane is my is my commentary on it so far. Um
I'm, not even sure why i'm guessing they're just the idea is that the beings have evolved so far that this is just how you perceive
Time when you get to that point
Something oh my I I guess the thing I was thinking about earlier was if if her reaction to an event
if she is
observing herself reaction reacting to
Chang and surprise
Then she is essentially looking at herself in the future as if she's experiencing that for the first time
So
She would know though by the time that event actually rolls around I don't think she gets to experience it
She wouldn't experience it again again. Yeah
So like like she goes from a to f to b to d to c to e to g to h like
Do you know what I mean?
So well that moment never happened again
Yeah, well, yeah, it happened out of order
But technically in the order that they're portraying this insane order to be
So is the so is the distinction here the fact that she but
Would perceiving time as non-linear?
Mean that time in reality isn't a linear progression not for her but for everyone else
Well humans I imagine
I mean she's going to be teaching everyone the same universal language as implied by the movie. So
Eventually everyone also wait. Yeah, does that mean that once you understand the language you start experiencing time
in that fashion
Yeah, that's that annoys me. I don't like wouldn't that just like what would that even do to the world?
that would fuck up like
Everything everywhere fuck everything up because people would know
It'd take a long time for people to even get used to it
But maybe the fact that the way the system works is that it's all worked out ahead of time
I guess it would just function. I don't even
Yeah, I mean we we don't actually know what it does
because
They I mean the aliens I guess the aliens know that it will work out for them in the future
But but I don't think the ability to tell the future would fuck us up that badly
I mean imagine if we had this power in world war II it's not the power to tell the future though, right?
This is not what it is. It's a it's a power to experience time out of oh, yeah progression out of
linear progression
Yeah, and it doesn't necessarily actually provide you with any benefits
Because the way it works seems to be as you need it. It seems to be sort of like a
As presented in the film
It seems to be sort of one on your side wanting to help you do the things you're trying to do
But how how would it know to be on your side?
Well, it's it's fucking we don't know how are we in the feeling things have been given to us by the most advanced aliens
We've ever seen
Well, but it's not the aliens doing it. It's the language
Well, yeah, it's it's a thing that they created
we don't know how any of it works and the movie is essentially just going oh, it's magic but
The hand waving it with oh, it's magic is is fine for something. You don't want to go into
Not really fine when you're trying to explain
I mean the way they're gonna get away with all of this
It works the way they're getting away with this like in the movie is just it's essentially the todd howard justification at this point
It that's how it works. It just works that way
If they if they'd said if they'd said this is our magic, you know, we are
magic
Would that have made it better because essentially the word magic is going hey
Yeah, this wouldn't really work in the real world. But is this is a fictional universe that that wouldn't make it any better
That would make it work
Also
Because then why can't they use their powers to just fix the problem on their own?
That's just what their magic is. Like that's how they might they have the magic
To experience time out of order. That's the strict magic system
If they can experience time out of I mean this all comes back to like how stupid this scenario is
Because if they can experience time out of order then why can they not fix their own problems?
And why can they not make this scenario so much easier for themselves to communicate with us with the with like the
Doing it in the easier way. Like yeah, that's the same problem that infinity war has
But why why they'd ever need help like i'm sure there are like
I mean we kind of need to know the information then
Well, why it's because
If they can tell the future what possibly could be so bad
That they can't fix the problem themselves if they can see it happening already. They're not they're not
Three thousand it's not very failed to fix the problem themselves
They're literally I don't think they can tell the future though to help themselves
But they but they said that they said like thousands of years from now. We're going to need your help
Yeah, they can they can't tell what's going to happen. I assume okay
So my assumption of how that happens is that like it's just word of mouth essentially?
Because if they experience things out of sync then word of mouth can go back in time
But that's not like that's not well if you if you experience things out of order in time
Then word of mouth like talking about stuff
And the film wants you to agree with the idea that whatever you see in the future quote unquote
And then you come back to the past there's nothing you will say or do that will change that future that future will end up
That way every time
Yeah
Which is the point of bullshit
How so just because it's it's self-fulfilling. It's like why whatever I suggest
That's what terminator is like if you don't terminate as fucked as well
Well, then okay
I don't like this as an idea either, but within its own logic it works
Okay within its own logic it works just like if I said dragons eat eggs and explode and that's just how it works
Well, okay, if you're writing a story in which dragons explode if they eat eggs, then if you have a dragon eating
That's my my point is less that
I agree. It's not actually i'm not pointing out a contradiction here. The people keep
Missing that point in chat. I'm not I've not actually said it's a flaw yet. I'm saying
It's impossible to criticize
How so it's by definition they've basically told you everything works the way it works because that's how it works
There's no questioning it. Yeah, you can't just determine. Yeah, you can't just
You can't yeah, I agree with that
It's like I mean if you're like is this really the the way that it would go then
Look, it's just because you don't like determinism doesn't mean it doesn't work. When did I say that?
This is pre-determinism. When did I even say anything like that guys calm down? This is the thing
It's like deter if we're going by like everything is pre-determined or it's determined by what you see in the future
What's the point of having a language that allows you to see in the future if doing so means you can't change it?
Well, because that's his rules. That's how it works. It's not that you can't change it
It's that you always changed it and that's what happens. Yeah, like everything you see in the future
Is still going to help you but it always helped you so
There was no version of it. So you didn't get that help. So hold on
you were the
Seeing into the future shows you what you changed as opposed to what you were going to do if you didn't have that language
But apparently you were always can't show you the unchanged. Yeah
Yeah, that's that is absolutely retarded. How would that not work? It's literally the same. What's the point of it?
What's the point of it? If it's like
Okay, so basically what's going to show you is you're going to change your mind
You're not going to know what
The outcome of the other thing is going to be if you see that in the future using that language
Meaning that it's predetermined no matter what just predetermined in a different way depending on what you know
well, yeah, if you have the language it's pre-determined to essentially
It it like it's either predetermined without the knowledge of the future. You can't predict what's going to happen
And that brings me or it's predetermined with the knowledge of the future and it's predetermined in a way that
You know what's going to happen in the future and have acted on that
But it's still predetermined and that's the only way it's going to go. So is this movie telling us that destiny is real?
Yeah, I don't like that either. I hate it. I hate it. I just want to cheapens everything. Let me try and refocus or reframe or whatever
so
Let's say that thing happened with chang and then she went back and used the information from there to make the thing happen
She's never going to experience the chang event again
correct
It's just in the shank you racial. I can't remember what it is. I'll call him general man. Uh
So
This gets confusing to me because there's a lot of if everyone's running on that, you know, because they will be right
She's going to convert the whole world into running on
This crazy language potentially at least a couple people
It starts to feel like a lot of things will start to have to be stitched and honest. It feels like time's gonna explode
That makes me wonder if this if it doesn't happen again, then how did it exist in the first place for her to experience it?
What what?
Why would knowing the language for that matter change anything? Yeah, I agree with that
It's like it's information in your brain. Well, they try to justify that
They say that when you learn a language you have that switch in your head
I don't I don't like that. That wasn't
Well, it changes the way you think it gives you the ability to see the fucking future on to experience time out of order
um
Okay. So basically here's the premise, right?
You have time timeline a where you don't know that language timeline b where you do know the language
Timeline a you do one thing timeline b you do another thing
Depending on if you know the language
Why would knowing the language change that and if knowing the language changes that then what's the point of knowing it?
If it's predetermined that you are going to do that thing that changes it was predetermined that they teach them a language, right?
It's predetermined like okay. So
Right, like if you have food, it's predetermined that you have that food
But there's still a point in having that food because you need it to eat
It's a resource that you have and you use
But the fact that it was only going to go away one way doesn't make the resource useless
Yeah, and you're gonna have to get off the multiple timelines thing because the whole premise everyone's working from here is that it's a
It's one timeline. It's always one timeline
It's just that you go from experiencing it in a linear fashion to a non-linear fashion once you learn the language
But everything was always going to happen that way. I think is what the
What people will know every yeah, everything is always going to happen that way, but there's no version
Didn't learn the language because
Like she was always going to have that kid and she was always going to lie to hawkeye
Um, and she was always going to learn the language whether or not she was aware of the fact
That her daughter was going to die ahead of time
but she
But didn't she experience that she would experience that future will she
Jay, will she have the kid knowing that it's going to die when she's
When it's being born like when she's actually pregnant or is that they don't have that they don't show that explicitly don't show like
Is there consciousness changing all the time technically speaking then in the linear world?
Did you show explicitly her like with hawkeye going let's have a kid. So I assume maybe she doesn't know at that point
but they show it like
Once we've been led to believe that no, that's true. Yeah, so what i'm saying is it's so it's so stitched out
yeah, so like
The only thing I have to say now is that what is that like from hawkeye's perspective wouldn't her memory keep changing at every moment?
Oh, yeah, he'd be like
I don't know. It would be also, uh determinism is the philosophical idea that all events including moral choices are determined completely by
previously existing causes
Determinism can't exist can it if the world if this is how you understand time
Or am I misunderstanding that i'm i'm i'm asking this because i'm
So it because if because determinism everything that you do is because of previously previously existing causes but previously
Like even saying previously existing causes if you're always experiencing time
Out of order or at all times
Um, then can term determinism exist in that case
I don't i'm not sure determinism can exist that you're seeing I don't know
I think it's like the language is being treated as like separate of determinism where like the language changes things
But the language is like always there and always has been a part of it
It's just like another element within determinism
But if it's something you're experiencing like if she's pregnant with the kid
Then this is after she learns the language
So she should be in a position where she is experiencing
future events
Yes
So if she's experiencing future events
Then the previously existing causes that got her there haven't necessarily
I'm
I feel like we've got to a point. Um, we're near we're near critical. Could we at least agree?
I wonder if anyone in chats can have issues with this
If let's just say 10 people in the human population are on this pre-determined non-linear track and everyone else is on the pre-determined
linear track
Um, wouldn't that just fuck everything up because everyone like I said memories will keep changing people will experience like all of us
Let's just say the three of us three of us are normal and and jays on on the on the tismi
Amy adams spectrum, so he randomly that might actually be what's going on already
But you're
So like when she would randomly know things that are impossible and then she wouldn't randomly not know things
That should be possible and we would we would see that in you depending on what information you provide us. I mean, yeah
Yeah, I would I would seem really fucking weird because the I mean the film is all about how like you you learn that language
And snap you start to experience it that way
Even though technically it's always always happening for everyone. Technically you
view it in
Wibbly wobbly indeed
Wibbly wobbly timey wimey people see ball people see ball people see time. Ah, fuck it. I'm not gonna do that quote
We can we can move on to uh
Well, maybe I should say just chat want to say anything before we move on in case there's people who are desperate to uh
I want to know what like what have we reached a conclusion like
uh, well
honestly, if you want my perspective, um
a couple of my criticisms go out the window if
Considering the information that it from what i'm understanding I think
about this whole non-linear timeline thing
uh
With with just a few small new ones from what I understand
Coming in but nothing as significant as what it was previously, but there's still a shit ton of other problems with this film
And I assume we're about to get the problem actually this kind of sucks now
Because technically speaking any possible issue you could come up with couldn't you say it was all
Needed or necessary or it was all supposed to go this way
You could but that's not an argument that i've
I've really used it anything. I mean i'm not saying you you're using it. I'm just isn't that possible
Yeah, I mean that's what a lot of the argument comes down to is like you say one thing. Oh determinism
That's it. You say determinism and then they're like, oh, no not determinism
That's the problem with time travel stories and why I don't generally like them
Is like you can just use time travel to say anything. Yeah, so
Do they do that in this movie?
Are they saying oh it happened this way because it had to I mean they do so like can it doesn't ruin everything
It's more just a contrivance
I'd say and said if determinism exists then everyone has a predetermined future the language just makes you aware of it
Now, um, if you remember she says I know why my husband left me and he goes you had a husband
What if she said in that moment?
The kid i'm going to have will die at age
blah blah blah and it's with you and he just goes like whoa, wouldn't that it would just that kills it because he's not
currently doing non-linear
I think that person's wrong in the way that they've like
that they've they've like
I'm totally open to being wrong about that. I'm just curious
It's like it's not that she could say anything different though
It's like that's what she always says because she always sees exactly what she sees at that time
She always says a thing that doesn't end up making it so that things change. That would be the answer then
Yeah, like she's always this is what I meant earlier by the whole i'm pretty sure it just it just self-fulfills no matter what
It's not that you can it's not that there's always a timeline that you go on and when
See what would happen even if you didn't learn the language like learning the language will change what happens
But like the change was always there and there was never a version where you didn't learn the language
Does that make sense I'm I
I'm pretty much happy to move on because i'm just I
I think that every answer i'm gonna get when i'm looking for more
Substance is just gonna be it works that way because that's how it always worked. I'll be like, right, right in which case
I mean it really just defeats the purpose of the movie and the
If it's all going if you're never not going to know the language
Then there's no point to having the language show the future
We've already done this
So what I think they would argue is that that was always a part of the timeline that you'd learned it whether or not
Like it saves a point
It's a no, it's a tool that it's not that it doesn't serve a point
Even if it didn't it wouldn't matter. Everything's already happening the way it happens. We don't even need
I'm not saying you're arguing it i'm saying that you can argue something
So what does it change then jay if you know the future with the language, what does it change?
Well, you don't know the future essentially it's not change
It's not changing anything because there isn't a version to change it
You always learn the language but essentially like
It's the same as any other resource that if you have it you will use it and it will make things better for you
Or worse if you use it badly. Yeah, like but the fact that you have it isn't isn't
There's not a previous version of the timeline where you don't have it and then because you have it you stuff changes
The only version of the timeline is the version you have it
And if you have that ability you can still use that to make things better for you
But you'd always why would you always would have yeah, you'll never see if it's better or not
You'll never see anything that would make it so that you would change anything the way it happens because that's how it would work
Yeah, and that's like the most convenient part of it to me is just that everything has to fit together
So nicely that I find it hard hard to buy anything that's deterministic
What everything would just be like so so my genuine subjective conclusion is well, that's boring
Yeah, it just
Rather than coming up with a creative way to make any of this work. They just said oh time travel
Or looking into the future if the film's whole point is to just let us know about this concept. I guess it did it
I
There's still like it's it's a major plot point, but it's not all the film has
Well, I mean if we want to
Jump to something else. I guess like I guess we've I guess it's the conclusion that it works as it is
But yeah, uh, I i'm happy to concede that it's it's better than I thought it was in terms of consistency
But i'm disappointed that that's what it is
So you're saying like it's consistent, but it's consistent in something that's not good. It's consistently. I'm not saying it's bad
I'm not saying it's bad
I mean, I I think from it from the aspect of it
When I look at characters because in this universe of the film if you're
predetermined to do everything that you do and there's
No changing it and this character is going to be making I I say making these decisions with quotes
Um doing the things that they do and they have no agency then
Well, it's still you still like how you still feel like you have agency in the same way, but your agency is
You can feel like you have agency without having agency. Yeah, they you can yeah exactly it's um, maybe it's
decisions you make are still like decisions you make but they're the decisions you would always have made it could be colored by the fact that I
Don't like that argument of like like oh god made your whole life and he knows what's going to happen
Oh by the way, you have free will well, I mean, yeah
What is free will enhance that is a fair idea that everything is predetermined not necessarily by a force
Just that the universe has a timeline to go through
Well, that would be the force if things are predetermined then something has to it's not a free to turn it it's the
Essentially like if you have uh, if you get if I were to say rags, would you prefer it if I were to
Give you uh, five dollars or stab you in the face and whatever you say I will do
So the the definite under definitional difficulties of pre-determinism
on wikipedia
It says one of the difficulties with defining pre-determinism using this example is that the word pre-determined necessarily implies a conscious being doing
The determining at time right the way I figured it was just that that's just always how it is and works
There was nothing that put it in place. It was just
Yeah, the idea that like any choice we make was always what we were going to do. There was no choice
essentially, like the universe is a
physics simulation and it's such a precise simulation that it can only ever turn out one way because all of
i'm a fan of
I don't particularly need a label right now. I figure that we we're making enough sense aren't we without giving it a label?
sure
Because a lot of people in chat are either saying that is and then says that would
Like okay
But does that change anything that we've said so far?
I've seen that is like the movie is deterministic and i've seen the movie is not deterministic enough time
Well, we clearly cracked that this is a movie that people like to discuss at the very least everyone's very interested in discussing it
We'll expect very long a lot of long comments will be on this video, which is fine
I mean, this is a good thing the movie's doing in high school philosophy
I just I don't know. I don't find i'm pretty sure isn't that the beginning and the end of the concept?
That's kind of my problem. I guess. Uh, it's not a problem
It's my personal issue is that once I get it i'm like, all right
Now let's explore some other sci-fi because that's done
Everything's predetermined. Okay, cool
But that's you determinator films operate on the same predetermined logic and they still tell stories within that
Well, yeah
The idea is that every single thing that I think I that I think is good could exist in a predetermined world
Anyway, right determinators one and two the the other ones just chuck that the fuck out of the window, but they don't care
If from terminator three stuff gets changed
Depending if you believe that that's a whole other thing we we we we'll stick to a arrival
As I remember it i've not seen it in a while because obvious reasons it's terminator three
I think I only saw it the once
Yeah, you really should watch terminator three ever don't especially more than anything
It was so good. I wanted to see how it carried on. I hadn't heard about it. I was like, there's a third one
Yeah, also, I think there's something to say about the way that this film delivers that message
Was it effective slash
What if that is the conclusion we were supposed to draw which I think a lot of people feel that that's where we were supposed to be at
I I was under the impression that the the
Language gave you a form of control over it. And that's what the aliens were actually
Using to find out that they needed the humans
So we were not so you want to talk about reader response theory. No, I uh, it's not it's not a huge point
I just want to hear everyone's literal. Just just thoughts on that. What do you what do you think?
I just wanted to hear you say the words that you I will never
Insult my stream such a way. I'm just curious. What do you guys think about delivery?
I don't care for it, but I don't think that's any surprise
surprise
Wait delivery the delivery of this message if that's what they were going for what we've just been talking about
um
I don't know it there's so many ways to look at it and there the differences between determinism
Predeterminism and even fatalism
Can be really subtle
So chat chat is so does everyone's disagree with each other
It's so confusing
The concept is fatalism
There's causal determinism
Theological determinism. Yeah, like I want to say chat will not get the end of the conversation done with the rival
Adequate determinism
It seems like there's a lot more to say about what's going on in this movie from what we've just discovered
But we can we can draw it back down to more mechanical stuff
And get out of the time stuff
or the ism stuff
Like
Do you want to push forward to some some other aspect of the film?
I think in this movie controversial that I am right
Well, there there's an aspect of this called
Compatibilism, which is the belief that free will and determinism are mutually compatible
And that it's possible to to believe in both without being logically consistent
I agree
so i'd have to i'd have to read this and learn about it because this is kind of my
I haven't really explored these concepts before
So perhaps mate maybe this film is like a compatibilism
Manifesto and who knows I I need to read more on it and
kind of explore
These concepts you were always going to say that
Maybe but I don't know the difference between me always having have done it and me thinking that I just decided to do it
Which makes me wonder why bother thinking about it at all?
Because for example, I just want to just clarify so like
Example of why didn't the aliens just use english translate language like they never did they always did it this way
This is the way that they did it. It wasn't because it was the best or worst or neutral way
It was the way they did it. Well, that's not an argument though. That is isn't that what the movie's saying?
no, no, I I
I wouldn't say so because it's not like
The aliens do it because they do it like they still have motivations, but those are no i'm not saying no
I'm talking about a meta time framing here. They always did it that way
Yeah, they always did it that way, but they always did it that way
I guess I guess we can still question why they would have chosen to do it that way
But yeah choices still make sense within this framework, but it's just there was only one choice that everyone like this is what i'm talking about
So if we speculate at all as to why they did or did not do a certain other thing or whatever
Isn't the response able to always be that's not what they chose to do. This is what they chose to know because
They still choose to do things for a reason even if they always choose to do the same thing
But they always have the same reasons in their brain when they do it
Like they still they still have to have reasons to make their decisions
So would it be fair to say that their approach was still pretty tismic?
Uh, well, I guess we'll get into that
with uh, like
I I don't think I don't know. I don't think they
Really fucked it up
I mean they got they achieved their goal, I suppose
Uh, so I guess yeah, I guess we don't need to involve like determinism for
the uh
for the
No, they do choose. Okay. Okay. I have to respond to the
If they if everything is still decided they still make their decisions
For reasons based on the information that they have
Like if I were to if I were to ask you would you rather have five dollars or be stabbed in the face?
You're always going to say five dollars
But uh, like there's a reason I do that
Then you'd ask to be stabbed in the face and then you would still be a fool of the film to not establish that he was
suicidal, right
Yeah, okay
So let's let's just say working still works the same way wolf. What's next?
Oh, okay
I don't know. Uh, how many what are we that was the big item list? How many items in were we?
Oh
I mean we covered several. Um
But I guess you at least agreed that the chemistry between amy adams and jeremy renner was right
What chemistry?
Exactly. All right. They didn't have like they had like three seconds of like there were parts where there was I was like
Hey, I don't believe these guys. I mean friends
I mean like they got along and he was a nice guy and she was a nice gal
Then suddenly at the end he's like do you want to make a baby and it's like uh,
That is a flash forward though. Yeah, that's a flash forward. We skip all of the development. All right. Oh, wait
Didn't he ask that as they were hugging like as the ship was going away or they were in the house. No, I think
Yeah, that was in the house. Yeah, that would be so awkward
Could you imagine if that was I think that might have been because lighting was the same throughout the entire movie
She could just be you want to make a baby i'm asking you just as a courtesy
We're doomed to the fate that something's predetermined us to do but
Even though she could just say no or just tell him what's going to happen
Well, she could but she never does because of the fucking decisions that she makes
Because that's what she wants. That's so stupid. You always want like she so she wants she wants to treat her husband
Like he's nothing more cattle. Yeah. No, I don't like how she treats that. That's horrible
Actually, I do kind of I hate to bring it back to the time thing so
Were we running with the idea that from the moment of wanting to conceive to conception she didn't know
But the baby was well, japan's what all she experienced didn't in what order she experiences that part in
Okay, can we move on to something yeah, yeah i'm gonna let that go
Okay. Um
emotional manipulation in the very first scene
Um, it tries to get you to care about amy adams with her daughter dying
Even though it's a lie and she doesn't die at all
She I thought her daughter did die
What I thought her daughter did die
Not in the chronological order
How so her daughter dies when she dies, right? There's not like a scene that I miss where her daughter's like i'm fine
No, no, the prologue shows like the whole amy adams going through her life and all that and then
The daughter eventually dies and the the movie at that point at least obviously it's
Changed at the end when the twist is revealed
The movie at the beginning implies that that happened chronologically and the rest of the movie happens after the prologue
So you're saying it's like it's cheap because it's like hey, look at her her child. I just feel sorry for her
Because here's the thing when you do that in really any story in general we can go with up the lion king
Ori and the blind forest you can make an argument for attack on titan as well
Um where someone important in the main character's life dies
It's for a reason and is supposed to be something that informs the decisions of the character for the rest of the story
But it's really just a cheap way to emotionally manipulate the audience in this movie
When it doesn't inform any decision she makes and it's all a lie
I mean, it's not a twist. It's not a lie, but it it doesn't I agree
It doesn't inform any decision she makes because obviously it couldn't
Yeah, so I don't see it as I guess I guess you could see it as manipulation
But that's sort of like I view it as manipulation because it's if it doesn't inform anything she does and is really only there for the
Uh for the twist then there's really nothing else to it
I mean, I guess I see with it with knowing everything that happens
I see it more
Stabbing things that we that we know late that we like we find out later or not
We find out later, but establishing things for later at the beginning
Like establishing the story of her daughter that will later be important and I guess they do show it in a way
I don't think that makes it worse
I don't want to pitch this would it be cooler or at least even potentially more effective if we understand how all the time stuff works
And we're drip fed
The kid is gonna something's gonna happen and the whole guy left for some reason because he knew the truth or whatever
And then we see that scene
much later
I actually think that would be better. Yeah, yeah, that probably would work
Because but I don't think I don't think it's broken the way it is. I just think that would be better
Well, he's saying manipulative
Not necessarily broken. I don't think unless that's what you're going for wolf
Uh, I wouldn't say it's broken necessarily
I mean there's the whole time travel thing but uh or I keep calling it time travel and people people keep getting pissed at me
Obviously looking into the future. I just keep calling it time travel because it's kind of time travel because she can influence the future and then go back
to the past
Or influence you always think back to the future
Let's not get back. It's like semantics. Um, I wanted to just highlight something Holden said
He said how will the audience know what the character knows at any one moment? The answer to that is we won't
No, we do we see how like we see what she finds out as she finds it out
You don't know this is the other problem
We don't know if we weren't seeing all of the flat. We don't know what her continuity is specifically
I was assuming someone might use that as a defense of me saying that they were convenient memories
For all we know these are we're seeing all of the necessary ones. We don't know that
You know what I mean?
Yeah, like it's true that we don't know everything that she this is true that she may know things that we don't know
She knows but there's nothing that would like come up or is important for the story that I suppose
Yeah, as long as we know what she knows that's necessary to the plot
She handles it very well
Yeah, she doesn't really have much of reaction to it. She's very spaced out a lot and then yeah just sort of
And then you just find out at the end. Oh, it hasn't happened yet
So she's just a boring person. I was about to say how do you live a life that way that i'm like
Oh, well, it's all that's that it just that's how it works that way
Yeah, I would imagine that introducing a human being to a completely new way of experiencing reality in such a way
would be
God hellish. Yeah, the part that I have trouble with is just people who are not experiencing time that way with people who are experiencing
Time that way. I feel like there's got to be
Stuff that there's got to be cross tisms there. Somehow you've got to have you could explore that whole thing in like a movie
Person out of time. I think that might be my disappointment with the movie. Maybe it's not that I find it boring
Maybe it's that I think they just didn't do anything with what this is beyond the easy route
So what you're saying is you're excited for a rival too. I don't even know anymore
I don't know if I think it's boring or if I think it's under-utilized
Everyone is welcome to try and figure out how I feel before I do
Calling a rival to arrival to revelations would actually make sense in the world. Yeah, i'd be okay with that arrival to reload. It is also fine
Arrival to what we got next
Arrival to judgment day
Unrival genesis no
We're not doing that well
Um, okay, so we got through the emotional manipulation, uh artificial drama
so
um
Everywhere, so let's go with the soldiers who listen to rush limbaugh and say to themselves
You know what these aliens that have never done anything. Let's uh, shoot them because rush limbaugh told us to
I mean
like
I mean, it's such a I feel like all we've got for this one is my client is insane. I feel like that's the best
And it's the same thing with general shang. It's the same thing with the actions of that curly haired dude. I can't remember his name
and uh
They're very they're very clearly
Presented as wrong and um, yeah, they're radicalized by the evil internet man
Which is just it's just a cliche talk show radio host archetype to make them do something really stupid
But the guy who gets radicalized like the leader apparently is the guy who's very much been in the entire the room
Every single sequence and he knows one for one that these aliens are not hostile
They're just trying to communicate and he's the first time he sees the word weapon. He just flips out
It's like dude, even the scientists were like, we don't even know what that means to them
Do you think that that's unrealistic or do you think that that's just like I think that we have to
Not necessarily
I mean, I think there are people who would react that way into people who are like
If we learned anything in the past few days there are people out there who would have nuked these aliens well before they even landed
Right. So apparently I understand that these people exist
But I agree with what wolf said which is like
The idea you took the easy route. You made a crazy person. Congratulations
Sure. I'll agree that it's
I would say it gave him more characterization. I guess you call it a an inconvenience
Well, the soldier would be the one to know that they are
peaceful and that they're just trying to learn each other's yeah, what you need is like, um
some kind of
Uh, and you may need a bit more buildup, but like an actual radicalized person who finds a way any of you guys seen, uh,
No, oh wait, what's the movie? I've seen contact. Yeah, so you remember the dude
Who like sneaks into the place to sabotage it, right?
Yeah, because he's like
He's super he's and the film shows us he's all about god and he's like i'm 100 against this and then he's
You know, I think it would have been better to have made an acolyte rather than him do it because you'd think he'd be
The kind of person to not sacrifice himself. But hey, whatever that works that for me works way better because i'm like, oh, right
Yeah, of course. He wouldn't yeah, it is jake busey. Um, he wouldn't he wouldn't get it
He's clearly out of the loop, but the guy who goes crazy in this film
Has like so little reason to go crazy and he still does and you're like, oh
We don't show they don't show him any more than like he has he has three scenes of dialogue
I think yeah, but he's in the room with them every time they go up. He's a part of the team like the leader or whatever
Yeah, but he yeah, but we don't see what he's thinking that whole time
So well, my argument isn't that we need to know what he's thinking i'm saying
He's a he's been made aware of all the information that would push him against the idea that they're hostile aliens
And he's been going up there for months
I mean, yeah, but like he he could just be very like he could be paranoid
He could be like, oh, yeah the weapon would weapon but you would have to at least like show that and it give us a reason
I described it as an inconvenience
He's an inconvenience to our characters. It's not impossible. It's just very poorly explained
You would expect him to be a very rational person based on his experiences with the aliens
Yeah, sure. I'll give you that point that he it's it's not it's not a like a
Yeah, but i'm i'm totally fine with the idea that there are humans out there who are like really crazy and
You know stuff i'm fine with that idea. It just wasn't poorly
You know given to us
And yeah, and I get like we went over the the sort of
Crazy reaction from the chinese with this thing, right?
Um, we got a little bit of my client is insane on that one as well
Yeah, um, yeah
Uh, would would wolf would would it also come down to the um, the closing off of the communicational things?
Do you want to is that a part of the people acting insane?
portion
Yeah, like oh
Uh, china went offline. Let's all go offline
Yeah, I don't I literally that's the part that I understand the least i'm like what the fuck is supposed to be happening
My assumption for a defense for that would be that it does match the theme of the film that everyone's lacking communication
And the whole you know language and we're all we need to work together. It's all about unity circular
Yay, and the film is showing the negative results of people not talking to each other
So it's like okay. I see how it fits in it's like what is the reasoning for it?
And it's like oh, well they kind of want to protect their own information from other countries
I is that what we're going for in the movie? I think
yeah, and so my confusion I guess first point of confusion was like
You know, we need to do the same thing block it off. I'm like, why wouldn't you stay online but never share any more information?
So that you can absorb information, but you never share any
I thought they didn't wait. Did they lose did they did they just turn off their
Well, the thing is
I thought this was still receiving just not transmitting it's portrayed in a very childish way
It's just like an on-off switch that they just arbitrarily are pressing and then all the countries start to follow suit instead of there being more
of a
Maybe maybe i'm naive and I think that countries wouldn't do that
so hastily
Especially with something like this
But like it does seem to be that they just portray it as uh, china trying to hide all their information
We should do that too protect our own interests and then everyone does
Yeah, I guess I mean
I will be right back
And maybe maybe I should make myself clear. Sorry. I think I understand what your question was so
When he says like she goes to say something she's like they said and then he cuts her off
Um, we don't know that on their screen. It says america has disconnected
Maybe it just shows the muted. I don't know
but like
It doesn't matter if it shows disconnected or muted. It is they're still getting the information from the other countries. Yeah, that's my point
but I
Uh, I would assume that's what they would go with but I still don't even I feel like they should have explored that a bit more
Like why does everyone want to stop sharing information with the unprecedented alien force that are trying to communicate with us using ink?
That's the showing stopping sharing information with each other. I feel like the only thing that really we have for it is that it's um
You know, it's like oh, well, you know the film is about like how we
Sort of fall apart when we don't communicate with each other and the this is something countries do the in the in our very day and age
They don't communicate properly. They keep things from each other because they're in a race to the top sort of thing. I should be like
Okay
But it's just like if if they wanted to reconnect with people then why didn't they just go to the news and say
Hey on the news broadcast just say like yeah, we want to communicate
Oh, yeah, they said they had to go to the actual borders and like shout at the people, right?
That can't be true. You can't have a total nation blackout against an
The film said it was
I don't know at some point you're like, come on. Remember rags. They kill the russian scientist who tries to get a message out
Even that is like ridiculous
Yeah, that was a bit over the top
At the time I was like there's no way they would do this because she's
A wealth of knowledge and they would want to extract extract. My client is insane
Why did wolf have to leave I was gonna ask him what's next on the insane category
I have I have some dumb things written down here if you want go for it. Actually little things like cinema sin style dings
there's a scene right at the start where
Uh, whether like they're all getting the text messages because like the alien
Uh-huh
And
Like that all of the students that she's teaching have laptops and they're still like can you put on the news so we can see
What's going on in the internet? I'm gonna nitpick even further than you
I like how not only are all of them
Not on silent as you would be if you had half a brain in a fucking school and you have your phone
You just have it on rumble or silent. You wouldn't have it on fucking loud
But they all ring separately like one rings and then the next one rings
I said it was a super like all individual shot. Yeah super nip. This is like height of nitpickery. It's a it's a sport
Wait, but it was really dumb that they took the hazmat sauce as well
Sorry
Do I have to be in the watch together right now? Uh, you will later not right now. All right
um
Okay, we'll continue with people being insane stupid
Uh, I was just thinking about something
Oh, um
No, wait
Shit. Oh
Um with general jang, she just calls him and tells him his wife's dying words
Why would he immediately be like oh, I should probably stop the attack wouldn't he be a little bit freaked out by that and be like
My phone's hacked
Did she not say anything else either?
I don't exactly speak mandarin. So I don't know what else well, didn't he say I remember that you told me my wife's dying words
Well, yeah, so is the assumption
That he said he said the dying she said the dying was and then she gave him an order and she said like this is
The dying was a proof
That i've spoken to you from the future and that you must do as I say something
That was that's why you also argued that like
Um, because did the chinese I forgot was the chinese did they know that they could like speak into the future?
Or was that only amy adams? I figured that out. I think it's implied that I thought she was the only one who figured it out
She's the only one who can do it
But we don't know if they it's implied that shang knows it's possible when in the scene
Well, he says I don't know how your mind works and talks to her
Yeah, but he clearly he clearly knows there's something going on. Yeah, but that was also in the future
I was gonna say I think it's a bit of a stretch that he just
Goes with the plan instead of being utterly freaked out by her call
Sure, I will I will say that it's a stretch. Yeah
Yeah, I mean
To me I would think he would just say my phone's hacked
We got to go through with this now or trace it trace whoever's calling me
Because that doesn't really imply anything because I mean if that was at a hospital someone else could have owned those words depending
Depends on what context it was
But how I mean if someone told you like this is the thing
That your mom said last sunday
And I know because I can see into the future. What would your reaction be? Oh my I wouldn't believe them
I'd be like, you know, that's ridiculous. You were eavesdropping or you had a bug in the house
but if aliens had just landed and told and be like if aliens just landed and like I get it had revolutionary technology there
But he wasn't aware of time-related stuff he just knew that yeah, that's
huge leap
Sure, but like it may seem reasonable to you to go from aliens to time travel
But that's only because we're literal guy like we're media consumers. So it's like oh, yeah
But like a chinese general being like aliens have invaded also. I know the dying words of your wife
You'd be like what the fuck I would think it would make sense to me that he would believe this is some american trick
Sure, especially especially we've already pled insanity for our character. Yeah, exactly. Exactly
It's the same kind of insanity would make him go. What the fuck are you doing? I mean if my father told me
That I know what you did yesterday because of time travel
I'd be like no you've been looking through my window or you put a bug in my house when I wasn't there
It just seems very strange that you wouldn't believe it
It seems strange that he would believe that
But because of a miscommunication with the word weapon he decided to try and go to war with them
Yeah, it's like the movie's his picks and chooses when it wants the characters to be retarded or not
Oh, no, I think he was being dumb like with both of those decisions
I think I how did it then you were like how did this man become a general both times?
Oh, yeah, I I mean I would agree with that but
Smart in the context of like they needed him to stop I guess. Yeah, but the movie just
It's I don't know. It's selectively. Yeah and the movie's saying
That's how he responded and it's like you can make assumptions about his character, but that is how he responded
So technically speaking all we can say it's it's convenient
I'd say hyper convenient
Yeah, he's a character who happens to do everything that he does everything he needs to do at the right times to do them
Whatever. Yeah, um
Jay brought up a stupid but i'm waiting for wolf to eventually get to it. I really want to talk about it
We just agree how stupid it is
They take off they're skipping to it. It's fucking taking off the stupid suits in the
So not only is that done right the way that everyone reacts to it. Just like oh, I guess they took off their suits
Let's just keep them in a lobby and just let them carry on taking off
What was that quote? I know you had it written down mauler that jeremy renner. He was like, we're all gonna die
Oh, yeah, everyone dies, right? And it's like yeah, he says everyone dies, right?
Yes, yeah. Yeah, that was an exact
Yeah, I actually I would argue the scene is better if you just cut to him taking it off
You don't don't tell me that his justification is everyone dies. Anyway, I I thought that line was are we really doing?
But no, he says everyone dies. Anyway
Well, everyone dies, right? Um
There's other things to this that I find fascinating
I actually think that her doing that is extremely dangerous to the point where she might even get booed from the project
I assumed that she would have like that's another thing that I think is dumb about it
Um
Okay, well we don't have to argue that I guess
uh, then there's the reasoning she did it she said she needs to like
Be her versus she needs to she needs them to see her
I think she said something like that and like you realize these things are advanced to the point where everything in that room
Might just be stuff to them
Oh, I think what I said to I can't remember if I said it to wolf arrives
But I was just like imagine, you know
You're trying to communicate with like a crab
And then it breaks off three of its legs and just puts them on the floor and walks up to you. You'd be like, uh
Right
Uh, where is this analogy going the point being that we how would the aliens know what she did has
Anything to do with showing her versus anything else?
What what so like a crab sheds?
If they know or not the reason she does it is so that they can see her question mark
It's like
They they we don't see them learning anything. They just teach us stuff is like this
I'm saying it's dumb that that was her motivation
Oh, yeah, sure
I mean like why would she assume that doing that would have the effect of them realizing?
Because she takes off her suit
Yeah, and so my analogy like let me change it instead of legs. It just shed like a snake shedding its skin in front of us
I just feel like it's
I'm trying to think of like an alien creature in a way that I think the aliens would be able to comprehend
What is a part of our bodies and isn't but they I think well, here's the thing
You don't well, here's the thing. You don't have to know it. You just have to have a justifiable belief in doing it
Well, she certainly believes it'll change well exactly I think she's justified in
like
You it's essentially it's the idea of why do we shake each other's hands to show each other we're not armed
This is similar in the concept. I wouldn't I wouldn't assume that with aliens though
well, I
I think I think that it is more likely that would be something she would believe is true
I'm I'm removing the coverings around me so that I can but why was she just getting naked at that point?
Maybe maybe because it's a fucking pg film if it wasn't
She's not going through with her principles
Well, if she when she looks at the alien she could
Well, she has reason to believe I think it's reasonable to say they're not wearing anything
Do we know that
You remember? Wait, wait, wait, wait, you're remembering stop saying that stop saying did she know that no, I said
Did you do I said do we know that not she?
Well, she looked at them
What the fuck you are?
Okay, independence day literal aliens inside aliens
Yes, it's not about it's not about whether it's actually true and they know it to be true
It's about her having a reason to believe it's true. They look naked
They have supposed to look so every time you say did they know it that's a completely different thing
Our whole argument against this film has been they assume a thing when there's a billion possibilities
Every belief that you have is the acceptance of proposition
What is within character? She has a reason to believe based on what she is seeing
Right and what she understands about herself and organic
Organisms that they're not wearing clothes and that if she took off at least a protective layer of her own
She would she believes that it would help to make herself seem more relatable. I don't think that's unreasonable her to believe that
I don't think I think there are for for an intelligent scientist slash whatever
There's no way that she wouldn't assume that there's a billion ways that could be interpreted
Especially as a linguist
Yeah, like she that is absolutely retarded that she thinks that taking off your hazmat suit is a way to connect with them more
As opposed to doing a whole other bunch of things
I don't think it's unreasonable. I don't think it's unreasonable
I think it's a possibility and that is fine for it to accept that's a possibility
But there's no reason for it to assume it would work over anything else she could do
I mean at that point it's very possible that she's working with a very base
Set of potentials that she even had access to it's like the opposite of her job
No, even even a linguist only knows there's so much you could do
And I think that she felt like given the circumstances of what she had
That was a good position for her to take didn't even necessarily we don't even know if that was even necessary
She could have just put a hand on the thing with the hazmat suit on
Yeah, but yeah, whether it was necessary or not
It's kind of a second issue. I I'm I'm arguing that she didn't think about anything. She just did it
Remember she's very I'm not saying it's a smart decision. I'm saying I'm saying it's not a smart decision to believe it
Yeah, i'm not saying it it's it's smart either. That's my whole position. I think she can justify what she believes
Uh, I think that she would believe that that would make a thing I can believe that for sure
But I also think that there would be a billion other things she would think to try
Probably and there's no necessary reason why that one should work over any other one. So i'm confused why she went with it
That's kind of my position
All right, all right
I mean i'm glad we all agree that taking off the hazmat suit was just dumb in the first place
I think that's the important part. Yeah, definitely not smart. Definitely not smart. Don't do that
The bird can breathe therefore I must be able to breathe too
I thought it was where they took in a fucking canary like
Yeah, the reason that makes enough sense to me
Well, the reason they use canaries and coal mines is because they didn't have any like good technology at the time
Oh, you're saying like we should just they should just have like a fucking computer up there that tells them what the
What is that? What's in the air?
I guess the best way to tell if they can stay alive is if something else is staying alive
If none of it's recognized then it would make sense to bring up a living creature
As a sort of warning signal
Well, did they say that the inside atmosphere couldn't be recognized or just that the object itself didn't exude anything like a signal that they could
Determine. Well, yeah, it wasn't uh showing any signals and they assume
There was a say that uh, there were points where they're like if they're communicating it's not
A way that we could detect and they were like assuming that they were communicating and they're assuming that there's stuff that like and I mean
Clearly as well with the fucking chips that just vanish and like reappear
Clearly there's going to be stuff probably going on that we don't know what is or how to deal with
So I think they made the right decision and just I think it's a precaution that there's no reason not to take it
And they were right to take it
Oh going to the suit thing real quick. Um, a linguist would know that like 80 of communication is non-verbal
Yeah, but a language would also know that that's not going to transfer to aliens with that doesn't apply to anything else
Here's the thing. It's not necessarily that it will transfer immediately, but it will start to create patterns that will be recognized
I guess that's true
Like like that that's why we that's that's why humans can understand each other's non-verbal body language
We don't even they don't even communicate like that at all in the movie. It's always based on the circles
Yeah, she didn't know that at first
Yeah, that's because she can't read the body language
What would be the purpose in trying to establish body language when you haven't even got a language?
Because it because while you are teaching the language they are also observing your body language
How would they go again?
Again, that brings us that brings us back to how could they possibly understand what any of the body language could possibly what are they connected to?
What they possibly mean rex rex we're bipedal. They're heptapedal. It's not quite the same. There's so many things
There's so many variables. I agree
I agree, it's a good argument
You know when the fucking room blows up and she's like, ah, they're probably oh
This is one of the things I like about the language is a process it doesn't happen all at once
It's very slow and over time and I don't think that she believes it would have done harm
Destined yeah, and that's that's a that's a
An assumption that she shouldn't really be making because it could
Maybe like that's why I actually do like more but I think it's not
unreasonable. I like the movie being
trying its very best to be as simple as possible at first like the
They you know, they're like they they draw a symbol i'm saying symbol
We know it's a name but to the heptapods like we're drawing a thing on here and then they point to themselves
Even that for me i'm willing to let it go
But it's like how do you know that they're
They're understanding that you're saying this thing on the sign and pointing to yourself
How do they even know what pointing is? You know what I mean? Like there's so much
There's so many variables. That's my whole thing
When you're talking to I imagine when you would be talking to these heptapodel creatures like aliens
You have to do something
Yeah, of course. I'm trying to get as is like, how would they know how would they know how eventually you're going to have to try
something
Yeah, and my my contention is they assume they assume conclusions when it could mean anything
Remember they attach names to them and it's like that could have meant anything but they don't attach names
Did they give them names? No, they attach the rings
They attach symbols to them. They they they're like these rings represent the them and it's like you don't know that
Yeah, there's a lot of there's a lot of points in the film where they they tend to be very very generous with assuming things
And there's a thing. It is a movie. I get that we're limited on time
I just wish that there was more I I really like that aspect to be perfectly honest
I love the idea of trying to establish a language between an alien species and our own
Well speaking of uh of not knowing of certain things that we could have done
um
It's like a week into the aliens being here
And no one but amy adams thinks to bring in a visual aid
That is retarded. That is really retarded. I mean they they're uh, the first recording we see
when force wittaker first meets her
There's a guy who's like, why are you here?
It's like well, why didn't you bring in like a whiteboard like the first time or at least the second time?
Like if you don't do it the first couple times that's one thing but like a week has gone by
Why didn't they think until she showed up because it's a bring a visual aid
Yeah, you would think that especially especially a species that communicates using symbols would really appreciate you bringing like a pen and paper
Because it isn't the whole point like, you know, we do x they do y we do a they do
We record every single thing we look for patterns. That's how we establish a communication that would be
So you bring in a visual aid just to see what they'll do. That's literally it
Sounds to me like you guys just don't like it because it's got a strong female lead
Yes, that too. We'll we'll talk about how how awful it is that they they force diversity
Yeah, low as light is terrible
Yeah, no, that's that's dumb. I think we're mostly agreed on that so next up
Um
Let me see there there's a bunch of like little things
Or smaller things I guess let me see if I can find anything that we haven't already covered in one form or another. Oh, um
There's this one really stupid quote
And it's uh, like the ship in their bodies their language has no forward or backward direction, which isn't even true
Because the ship clearly has a forward direction being that big hump side
How is that for when when we say travel it goes to the uh
The air like the top of it
Yeah, but it's like going forward with that that hump side
Although don't don't the aliens face them
The aliens have a forward direction
Yeah, yeah
Like the movie like literally got that wrong as it was showing like an alien turn to walk alongside
Jeremy renner when it said like ian walks actually starts walking alongside you. Yeah, they do
It's a really stupid quote. Yeah, the I I under I sort of understand the ship thingy, I guess
But the body one is definitely yeah, their bodies definitely have what they at least
What they at least present as their front side
So I got another one with the the 3d map of the language
So when it shows just before abbot explodes
Um one of the aliens they splooges the goo thing all over the screen
He splooges the goo
Isn't the splooging the goo as a result of them questioning off a weapon as well?
Um, I think he just well that was like when they were going back to do that
Well, I was going to highlight it was the why didn't they just ask we already went over this
But why didn't they just ask off a weapon as soon as they said off a web?
Yeah, we've already covered this. I know i'm sorry
But it's just done
But this is a different thing. So
We have the whole screen which is in just unrealistically good resolution, but we'll set that aside
Um where it shows like the letters or the words or
The symbols in general and some are in the front some are in the back the ones in the back are the smaller ones
How would jeremy renner know which one is the correct size in order to accurately create that 3d map?
Just didn't they have no did they not have multiple camera. I I thought they had multiple cameras, but it could be wrong
That doesn't answer my question though if they had multiple cameras on it they can create the 3d map from the different angles
But it was just a 2d screen that they were seeing
No, no, they had no it was uh
No, they had it. I thought it was a 3d thing was 3d. How would they be able to draw?
No, it wasn't a screen the the uh the lines that they draw don't exist on the screen. They just exist in the air
Yeah, but how would they know?
Which one is the this how would they know which size the symbols are meant to be?
In order to accurately draw those lines between them to find out that it's only 1 12th of the language
I don't I don't get what like
You're like the size that they are is the size that they are
But there's ones that are like infinitely smaller than the other ones
So how would he know which one is the correct size in order to extrapolate how large they're all supposed to be?
Well, I think they're supposed to be different sizes
How would he make the 3d map then?
Because how do you mean how he has two angles and he makes a 3d map from the two
putting the two angles together
He can't do that if he doesn't have a baseline for what all the symbols are supposed to
What the basic size is supposed to be though. He has two images of the symbols from different angles you can make pretty
Does he I don't remember there being two images. I thought he had two cameras
I made I don't think it's unreasonable to think there there's more they don't rely on just one camera
I think it would have been fair
However for the film to at least show a neat little process of him doing something like that. Yeah
There was another camera angle that we're seeing that were shown
From like say the left side of the room as opposed to the middle of the room
And we see from that other camera that they go further back rather than all just on screen in a flat plane
That would be one thing but the movie doesn't show that
I find it interesting he's able to draw a 3d map for sure
I think the more definitive easier to argue problem would be how does he draw borders exactly?
My uh, and as well, how does he know that I see just like surely there would be some empty space that there's not
data in like
So just the fact that he comes to the exact fraction based on it like he should he should have
Approximately his border was like a chain. That's not okay. Hold on chat. That's not a nitpick. I know that you're having trouble thinking but
Let's let's break this down. Okay, so I draw you a map and it's got a bunch of different circles
You need to figure out which of those circles is the one that's supposed to be the baseline to accurately create
Like a 2d plane, right? We have like seven or eight circles. They're all different sizes except for like a couple
You need to figure out
Which one of those symbols is the baseline in order to figure out?
Which one is forward which one is in the back which one is in the middle top left right all that
If you can if you need to connect all those to find out that it's only one twelfth of a hole
How would you find out which of those circles is the correct size in order to accurately create that three-dimensional map?
Two cameras
Also, I mean like I said the more defensive one I think is the fact that he draws a cube around it
How would you why would you have drawn a cube?
Yeah
Well even with two cameras you still would have to have knowledge on which one was supposed to be the base symbol
Exactly
They should have
Wait, how do you mean which one was with two cameras?
You can make a 3d map of it by looking at which symbols have like moved
No, we don't see that. We don't see a nice image though. We only see that flat plane. I want to help
for a second
In fairness to chat, right? So this isn't a nitpick because
Getting the message from that map completes the movie
So it's it's not a nitpick. That's how they find that's how they find out that it's only one twelfth of the language
Like that completes the film like because the rest of the things happen. Thanks to that is really important. I think it's one of the
weaker elements
It's like if I could have explained it's so much better
I don't even think it would take that long if they just gave us a little bit of mumbo jumbo just a little bit
Like yeah using the the dual cameras and drawing a spectrometer limit based on their
The limits of every everything they've ever drawn we only go that far out as to make the cube
He said that i'd be like, okay cool
See I I don't feel like I personally need it to enjoy it
Like i'm happy except that he's a science man who does science things, but I understand why it should be there
I just when I saw it, I was like bullshit. How did you make that?
I was like
You know, you know what I will say I accept that it is there but it doesn't bother me
I just said the words I just said the words you're supposed to get angry now. I said it doesn't bother me get mad
You're not allowed to like things so no fucking dare you well what else is stupid
Hold on i'm snipping this image. I found what i'm looking for
So
I can actually explain this correctly or at least with a visual aid which will help
You know how visual aids work and all that also it's a jump i'm okay with
But it is a little bit of a jump to conclude. It is one out of twelve
In terms of the thing therefore. Okay, go ahead
Okay, so uh, if you can put the image up on screen so the chat can see it. Yes
Also, it's a good
Have you made another graph? Oh, no. No, it's just uh, I just snipped it directly from the movie
So what we're seeing is like
At least one this is one twelfth of the language, correct?
We're seeing like all these different symbols that are supposed to add
Twelfth of the whole
So we see
It's not as good as the image that they show on the computer where they're like zooming in point by point and they find like smaller
And smaller symbols as they go. How would you know which of these circles?
Including the ones in the back are the baseline from those images in order to accurately represent a three-dimensional model to see
Because I think it was like mostly blank in the middle of it
And let me ask this um, because I I only saw i've only seen the movie once
If you took the english alphabet and threw 20 letters up, how would you know that you were missing six?
Well, no, they gave the explanation of that. I don't like the explanation. But yeah, what's the explanation for that?
They don't explain that there's uh, there's space
They've filled up 12 of the space that they are writing. Yeah, and the problem is what space what is the space?
Why would they know that it's all the space is supposed to be filled up by something?
Yeah, no, I agree that that's done. Also, you know because jay you said that like they've placed it up
It is floating. This isn't a 2d representation. Do you really think it goes as far back as the cube represented it?
Uh
I would have to see the cube again
I remember pretty it has a decent depth because I remember the reason i'm referring to it as a cube
I believe is because of the fact that it is as it goes as far up as it does
back if you don't
Which shouldn't be what we're seeing here. I don't think I don't remember that but if it's true it is dumb
Yeah, because I remember there was I don't have the the file with me the the movie. Do you still have the movie file mauler?
Yes
Can you find the scene right after this where they're looking on the computer and they're showing like zoomed in?
Well before we even get to the map of the cube
They look on the computer and they're like constantly clicking in to zoom in and blow up the image
And they find that there's more symbols that are smaller than the rest
Um, are you just complaining that the cameras are really ridiculously good?
I mean i'm fine. I have less of a I have a less of a problem with that. I mean it is ridiculous
But I I have more of a problem with the fact that in order to
Accurately tell that this is one twelfth of a model. They have to be able to accurately
Tell which of these circles is the baseline that all of the circles are meant to be
In order to get that model and chat doesn't seem to understand
This is like what the whole entire plot hinges upon is like
Figuring out that these 12 ships are giving 12 different locations around the world
One-twelfth of the language to bring everyone together. That's the theme of the film. What are you asking me to find again?
Sorry, uh, it's right after this scene. They're looking at a computer and
Yeah, it's like right here
And they zoom in I think it might be like yeah, it's a few seconds after i'm getting it i'm getting a uh
I'm getting a screenshot of it right now
If you just uh have my stream of I can find what you I assume you're looking for i'm not yeah
Yeah, this this is what i'm looking for right here
Oh, it's uh
Yeah, like you see he zooms in constantly to figure out off of this gigantic
Muddled pile of symbols, right?
Yeah, and he has to zoom in
And as he's zooming in he has to figure out which of these is the baseline that all of them are supposed to be
Which how do you figure that out? There's like hundreds of thousands of them from that image
Yeah, by the way, like i'm not trying to be a dick to chat
But if you consider this a nitpick then yoda using lightning is a nitpick as well
People just like to defend I mean our here's the thing that kind of annoys me is people are objective until it comes to something
they like
Then they stop being objective. I think this is more of a nitpick for the yoda
It's like the whole point of the film
This is the way that they do it though, what are the what are the things that he connects? Why does he connect?
Yeah, it's so
What's the what's the it's?
I don't think he
Ever explained it because he highlights that all of them mean time
And then he connects them all in a way that I want to describe his arbitrary, but I don't know if there is
Is there a reason he does that
Uh, not that I remember
Did mauler just use what about ism no no
No, this is the opposite this is consistency. Yeah, this is this is this is me saying
This is a me saying if you consider this good
Then you you can't consider this it's it's it's the the reason I pick up on yoda using lightning
Is the same reason i'm picking up on this is the idea
Um
Ruining thing
And that's the thing
It's like this isn't a small thing the whole point of the movie is that the aliens came here
To teach us one twelfth of the language in those twelve locations to bring the world together to get this
Universal language across the world to help them three thousand years down the line
The movie hinges upon this this cube that he draws up. Why?
Why is it a cube?
Why look how much space there is between each of the like edges?
Yeah, how would you know if there's if they don't branch out rather than go inward?
Like wouldn't it be a big rectangle because of the screen?
I don't know. This is what I mean
It's so confusing and they they draw exactly what they need out of this and it's like oh, I I agree
This is the worst part
Like chat even the person who likes the film is
I mean like this is really it's almost like do you have five to ten more minutes of exposition explaining how the math is?
We'd like something. I say you could have a couple lines just a couple lines more exposition
It's it's better exposition
This is the explanation for the point of what the aliens are trying to do and why they're here
This is kind of pivotal to the plot
It's a pivotal scene in the way that they show it is like
And hawkeye is just like yep. Here's the answer and he and it doesn't make sense
Like if they showed if they if the aliens what if what the aliens showed was like
Clearly like in a grid format with bits missing out of it, then it would work
Yeah, even even that you could actually have like a right angle on each corner in made in ink. We could be like, oh
That'll be a big way to do it really you don't even need a line of dialogue at that point how great is literally
Like do they have why don't they just have we have symbols for 12 and they like do we do they understand fractions?
All they would need to do is have the aliens right one of 12 in the corner
And then it would also work the same way, but it would make sense
Chat is triggering the streamers a little bit a little bit. Are we not allowed to be triggered?
I feel bad for us if we're not allowed to be triggered
Everyone gets to be triggered sometimes symbols seem to vary in some
Doesn't that imply depth no
This as an object gets further away. You can still have I mean it could imply death
But again, you have to figure out what the baseline is. Yeah
Because they've drawn rings of different sizes, which means it could just be that they're different sizes
It doesn't necessarily mean that they're of different depth
Let's assuming it's all 2d which
Might be disabled by the idea that they have multiple cameras for sure
But I think we're we're concluded on the at least the cube. So I think we're good to move on to the next thing
What is the next thing I don't know i'm excited
Let me see
Oh, we already got that I already got that
Why is the chat full of c because c is for chat rise up
yeah, oh
The host oppresses
Basically just top it all what we're saying here is that this is an extremely pivotal moment of the plot where the revelation of why
the aliens are kind of here comes together and
Hawkeye just basically saying I used I I fat I figured it out
Yeah, because he says it's like using you ready to pop open the champagne or whatever and she's like you you you got a break
And he's like yep
The things that was not big of a break is down anyway
The break is literally we still don't understand it
But there's more stuff that we need to get that we all don't yeah
The break is an assumption that happens to be correct that there's 12 pieces of of thing to collect together and put together
Yeah
Literally, it would be so much. It would be so much simpler if it just said in the corner
Like they're symbols for one and the symbol for
12 in the corner guess that i'm not more bits to get i'm not saying that makes sense because amy adams earlier on
Suggest the use of chess as a way to communicate in chess is very mathematical
Well, I think that's the use of chess. Yeah, I think she said that china was doing that and that was a problem
Yes, she advised
Yeah, I got you I got you
But it's I mean, it's all good. We can we can uh
I find it really strange that they that they didn't use math since math is universal
Someone's saying 12 pieces for eight. What where are you getting number eight?
All right, I think I think is he 12 pieces of eight. Yeah, that's a pirate's reference. I think oh, okay
Are good nine pieces of eight in that movie. I think it is nine pirate lords
It's nine. I don't know. I I think i'm just fucking just go with it rags. Just go with it
I think i've been trying to block out that movie from my memory after watching it
beef up versus chat today
But why would yes
And during that scene in the movie when they were like
When amy was like oh then this expresses everything in terms of winners or losers and stuff
I'm like, I don't know the point of the game really one of the great things about games is that they force
People to come together and agree upon a set of rules that they both voluntarily operate by like that's very cooperative the nature of games
Sure
So I I get what she's saying, but I feel like you could also like it's not a very good
There's a lot to explore with her statement. You know, I agree that her character would think the thing that her character thinks
Well, what else is done?
Um, the one the last one I really got because we covered most of what I had written down anyway
um
Is why would they not use math? Why would they go to chests in written language when math is a universal?
They tried to
Uh, the uk is using math. Uh, and I mean they're all communicating at that. So why would they be trying something that the uk is doing?
the uk talks about um, like
Algebra and like I can't remember specifically. Yeah, they said their concept
Yeah, I thought the movies said something it's a brief scene
Yeah, but that's what I would want
Yeah, I still would incorporate using math
But I if one of if one of the 12 teams is focusing like exclusively on mathematics
Uh, okay, then one of the others is working on chests. Is one working on like mario kart?
I don't know. I'm not i'm not sure
It's it's weird though because like math is a thing that we use in the real world and our probes and stuff that we send out
It seems very count. I mean honestly
It's more of a nitpick than anything, but it really seems
like math would be far more effective than trying to
The movie tells us that
There's like totally good reasons to teach them language. I mean they don't know that they've got a limited time
because a sentence is a subject and a verb and
Or like language language structure they're teaching them to fully communicate with us
When we don't know that they're gonna leave
As far as they're concerned they have infinite time to
Uh to teach them a full the full english language so that you can have just like a conversation with the aliens, wouldn't it?
Like and i'm totally happy to be totally wrong on this. It's just a thought
What if the aliens like just split it out the one out of 12 for everybody the second they landed wouldn't that
What's the point of the rest of it? I think I have notes on this, but I can't remember what they say
So give me a second. All right
Because like my brain immediately goes too well they kind of have to
More little things but they'd be like blurred or something like that
I'm just i'm saying like they give it's like a riddle, right?
It's like if they present earth with a riddle, it's like you have to earn the right to unlock the gift
We're giving you by working together. So they just come down
Existence depends on it
I think it yeah
It almost has to be one of those ones that comes back to it. It has to happen the way
But that's not really an way. Yeah, didn't you say that it has to be a good reason for it
Wasn't the reasoning the film does account for that the film says that um
Say something like why wouldn't they just give it all in one?
She says they want us to work together. They're trying to force us to work together, which I think is weak
But at least the movie gave us that they do wait for they do uh
I guess they
Maybe if they just I don't know i'm starting the fence with the word. Maybe i'm gonna abandon it
Um
Yeah, i've not got much for that. I guess it's a bit risky on the part of the aliens to do it that way
Is it no that's not risky. They know exactly what's going to happen
No, they don't know exactly what's going to happen if they can't I thought the premise was that everything's predetermined. They don't necessarily know
They didn't make the decision knowing it would work
They made the decision because they thought was the right thing to do and it does work
Well, no, because they know no they but if they they make the decision knowing it will work
Then that's still going to be they think it's the right thing to do
But if everything's predetermined then that doesn't impact their that doesn't impact their decision in any way
We need to stay away from the time conversation
But it doesn't wait
So are you saying the reason they chose to do it the way that they did it was because they knew it would work
I think it was I think the way they did it was good the way they did it
How do you deflect my question
No, I I think yeah, like
If they know it works, uh, then they don't have any reason to do anything else and
That's why they carry on doing it the way they do it
I suppose I thought that was the thing I said earlier and you said
I thought you said they would always have to be a reason outside of the concept of how the time works
If one stabs itself in the face, then that no because it's consistent with knowing the future knowing that everything works
Means it makes sense to do things in that certain way
But if one stabbed itself in the face and then it died then that wouldn't make sense because it wouldn't be
Oh, wasn't it always going to make that decision always going to do that
But there would still be there would still need to be a reason for it to do that
So that was your point
So there has to be a reason for them to do it, but the reason can be that they know
it's out
Why would that be the reason is that right? I thought the whole point was the
I i'm
I'm not sure. Yeah, I don't know the reason for them doing a thing is they know
That it's going to work is like isn't that the yeah, it's just that that reason was always going to be the reason
They did that thing
But there still has to be a reason
like like things happen for a reason no matter what I
I felt like we've already got this like to the to the logical conclusion of this conversation earlier
And I feel like we got up to a conclusion. Sure
Well, you know you're always going to get I don't even know if the film is
Clear that's the thing
I think we've established it's unclear especially with how everyone's reacting in chat. Sure
Well, actually it's saying that the people on either whatever side they're on will feel that every other side is not understanding it
I don't know. I'm not saying there isn't a correct side before everyone tries to murder me. I'm just saying that like
It's clearly hard to unravel. Okay. I mean even amongst the people in the chat that
Do like the movie they're like contradicting one another because like some will say one thing and then some will say the exact opposite
both in defense of the film
it seems like it's like so
I almost feel like being like exploring a concept that a human
Can't really understand with how our brains function
Is almost like its own
I mean voluntary or not its own kind of shield for what the real
Thing is in the movie and it really seems like the whole time thing like no matter what you try to say
Someone's just going to pull some argument from time to try and deflect it
It's very so it's it's like the movie was trying to be criticism proof
In a really weak way rather than just doing things like in a rational logical way. I think we're probably are we are we nearing?
Uh, is that it for your criticism as well because we could probably try and reach a conclusion here of sorts
Yeah, I don't have any more notes
Well, what does everyone have to say I guess
I
I guess I could go first to give a sort of example. I I
This movie is more confusing than when I had watched it after discussing it
In terms of it's almost like you have to change your framing for every time you judge it
Depending on how you've interpreted the rules not to say that the rules
Shouldn't
Cannot be interpreted in one definitive objective way as if the movie is giving it to us
It's just there's so many pieces of information that sort of
Make me question whether or not it is
The one set of rules or another or whether or not it is a set of rules that's broken itself or
all these other things, um
But
From what I understand it's slightly better than I thought it was i'm being as honest as I can here. I'm sorry
Like it's I would happily say that I consider it like a four now. It's still it's still below par
But i'd go up to one point
um
The one thing I wanted to mention by the way because we I just got reminded of it
Do you remember when they closed off all the communications and she says something like we need to continue communicating?
And the guy says you want to talk figure out what this means
And he's pointing to the the sign for um of a weapon
Or whatever and I was really confused by that because I thought that
His motivation for canceling communication was that other people were doing it and he's been ordered by the president or whatever
He talked to you on the phone
Not based on whether or not she figures out what offer weapon means which how would she do that?
Other than just asking them again what they mean by that which is what she ends up doing which
All of that just seems nonsensical to me
I thought I assumed that if she had the information of what they meant by it then they would be able to like
Whoever's in charge of turning off communication may change their mind based on that information
But what if it meant? I mean it just I figured that I wouldn't play into it because it seems to be a decision made irrelevant
Of what the thing means
I I thought the fact that other countries are closing down
No, I I
It's just I I'm closing down because of the information
Everyone's closing down because of the offer weapon or uh use weapon messages
But um, so if they find out that it's non-hostile if they find out the exact meaning of it, then they can share that information
I think that's such a shaky weak premise for everyone to just stop talking to each other and yeah
I was about to question that but I feel like we've
Every team would be like, yeah, we don't really know what we're on high alert
We need to talk about this shit that sort of attitude. Yeah, it's like I get if it would raise a brow
but
Every team would be like, oh, yeah, we don't even really know what this means all that much
We're not really sure what this could translate to we don't know what they understand the concepts or if we're
Understanding what they're trying to say correctly
I mean, it's one thing if it creates suspicion in some degree, but to instantly go from boom
We're not talking to any other country anymore is crazy to me
Yeah, especially the ones that we're allied with I mean it's one thing if china goes offline, but like why are we cutting community?
Yes, they treated the system they treated the system like if you don't want to talk to china you can't anyone but guys
They were always going to do that
That's no
Kidding about it. Uh rags. What do you think? What's your conclusion?
I mean, I still don't like it. Um, I still think that there's a lot of issues. I think that the way that characters behave
Is a big component of what I hate. I know I remember when I was watching the movie with mauler
I was constantly saying why the hell are they doing this? This doesn't make any sense. Why would they do this?
This just doesn't follow
um
And I still i'll look into the aspect of
determinism or pre-determinism in
This movie because I kind of want to understand it more
But right now I just i'm just not certain. I mean, I still don't like it. I wouldn't
Like I don't think it's good. I think some of the scenes. I think some of the the shots were nifty
um
But I was man. I was so I was really along for the ride for like the first half of this film
I was down to see what happens and I thought and I was like, man, let's see what happened. And then it just
Uh, I think I think it I think it tries to get too full of itself. I think it tries to be a bit too
I don't know. I'll look more into it but
Still as it stands, I just don't I just don't think it's a good film
Do you like your number changes at all stays the same guess what?
um
if I could find
if if I do
If I look into it and I find that the film definitely
absolutely supports
like a certain philosophical
Uh theory regarding like the linearity of time and free will and stuff then maybe is very possible
but
Seeing as I don't i'm not going to change my answer yet. I would just say three pending
So, okay
Uh jay, I'll let wolf go last because i'll be the interesting one
I'm
I'm
torn between keeping it at seven and changing it to six
I still really like it for the reasons that I like it and I think most of the
Most of the problems that were brought up. I was like, yeah, i'm aware that that's a problem in this movie
Except stuff that this like the time travel not making sense, which i'm pretty convinced. We we saw in like it does
Make sense. It's just a bit convenient in places
So like I think just talking through all of its problems
Maybe go there are quite a few of these aren't there?
But I don't think there's like many new ones that have popped up for me
I still just don't really mind feeling a seven's pretty generous
I really like the good bits of this film
What would you say are the best?
I would say I would say six because the part about her being manipulative and knowing everything
I think does take it down a bit for me
But yes, it's a six. All right
and wolf
Well before I give my answer. I want to answer this super chat that says I found the pro life element of arrival and
to be moving
So basically i'm sorry to tell you this you're in support of manipulation and lying to people
Because that's literally what the message was
I didn't even think about the the film in terms like a pro life stance. Well, my problem with it
We don't know that she lied anymore
I mean that's timeline shit is that we don't know if she actually was consciously away. That's the thing
It's like everyone's going to come up with
Supports their case. It doesn't matter because it's always going to be well, it's it's determined to be that way
She's going to do the exact same thing. Other people will say oh, she's not going to do the exact same thing
Yeah, because it's like defenses of this movie are like all over the map
I I mean what do you even call it pro life? It's just like I mean
Hold on I don't care if it's a pro life message or not
My my my whole thing that I find really profoundly disturbing
Is the fact that she would lie to her husband
And use him as cattle essentially to have a child
She's nose is going to die and then not tell him that's a horrible scummy thing to do to anybody ever in any situation
The pro life aspect. I will say that choosing not to have a child
Is not not pro life. I was about to say I wouldn't call it pro life what she did
Why wouldn't you just adopt?
Yeah, there you go
We'll have sex at any other day than the day that
Well, I mean this is all assuming this is assuming she's not killing anything. This is all assuming that she knew though
The way that I saw it was that because she experienced this stuff out of order and like this is not in the film
This is just what I was thinking as I was
Um is that she already like because she was experiencing stuff out of order would have grown attached to her child before her child
And therefore the idea of yeah, I got that that child would
You know someone actually brought up a good point if he's learning the same language too
Then wouldn't he see the same thing? Does he learn the language?
I would assume if his wife was the one who wrote the language. He'd probably read and learn it
Especially since the whole point of the film is for everyone to learn that language
Would you learn a language if you knew it could let you see the future? No. Well, it depends. Can I change the future?
Well, is that actually how to find that's a good question
Because depending on if the world is pre-deterministic or not
Then if I cannot change the future then I don't want to know
I mean, what do you would you even understand the feeling or would it just everything seem to run?
If you if you could see the future and you knew what was going to happen, you couldn't change it
Then would something in the space time continuum like prevent you from like shooting yourself in the head the instant
That it's well
No, the fact the thing that's preventing you from shooting the head at you and the head is
Yourself in the head is that you don't want to shoot yourself in the head and therefore aren't going
What if something very horrible happens and you know
It's going to happen because you looked into the future using that time thing and this will movies universe that just wouldn't like
if either that would happen or like
Or you wouldn't see it because in this movie's universe you see the stuff that happens and if you
If you were to see something that would actually though there's a paradigm
That's a paradox where if you had the idea that you saw something horrible
Where if you if you saw something so horrible that it would make you want to kill yourself and then you kill yourself
And then it can't happen anymore. That would be a paradox. But like
This this movie's like in this movie
That's just impossible
I I guess that
The the future you would see well, this depends on in this way rules. I like rules
Is that what you would see is like?
if things carried on
In a way where you didn't know but then you would know
so what you essentially would be
Being given is you would be given the ability to look outside of the rules
Yeah, that's a whole different set of rules though
Just to just to get it all I guess wrapped up if I could change the future
I would want to know if I couldn't change the future I wouldn't want to know
But what if you knew that knowing the future was helping you to do things, right?
But that's not true though, is it?
So let's say you you know that you know the future so
When you know the future you can see like tomorrow's lottery numbers, but you can't change them. So you have the information then I don't want to know
Right, um the film does say that he left here because he didn't tell him implying that she did know question mark
Yeah, well, but he doesn't know that she
If she didn't know then he would he wouldn't have left her if she told him
Through this this language. I didn't know that until after she was born
Right my my my head canon is still that she got attached to her child
Yeah, well, that's what I that's what that was always my original interpretation of the movie
I always thought the idea was she experienced the love and connection to her daughter so
Thoroughly that she was like, I don't care that she's gonna die. I want to have her anyway, which people
What if Jeremy Renner, right? What if what if Hawkeye as he learns the language and he gets this ability as well
He learns through that
What she knows and she didn't tell him and that's why he's upset
I mean either way it would I don't think it I don't think it works regardless
Because she she says the reason she lived
um
She says explicitly the reason she he leaves her is because she told him oh when she's talking to her daughter on the beach
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so he still has a valid reason for being extremely upset with her
So it's not confirmed that she quote unquote lied or omitted a truth. It's simply the fact that she told him the truth
I I think that
Why would he leave an issue anymore considering the idea that she probably got to know her child before her child was
And she's gonna say the stuff that allows her child to be because she's already has the love for that child
But that's not the point. The point is that she uses Jeremy Renner. Yeah, I agree. I agree that yeah
That's a horrible thing to do
But I I would also see that I mean, yeah, yeah, I agree
Yeah, using someone for your own emotional satisfaction
Would it not be better to like adopt a kid rather than to like fulfill some fantasy you have from her from her perspective though?
If she doesn't do that the child she knows and loves no longer exists never existed. Yeah, or yeah
That's what that's why the pro-life argument doesn't hold up because you can't kill something that never existed. Yeah
But in her mind like she knows that child already
She already loves that child
Well, yeah, well, she loves the concept of a child that will yeah
This is the thing we can definitely do the my client is insane for this one because I'd be like a woman
You can fall in love with their any child of any kind of any day of any sperm of any even adopted
She'd be like no i'm connected to this one. Like oh, all right, then
But that's like there's like if your child if someone's child has already been born
That's like saying, you know, just kill that child and replace them with about one
Yeah, but we just established it doesn't count as killing. Well, you could also make the argument that if she really really loved it
Why would she want to see it suffer and die like that? I agree to start killing but
But
Well, yeah, you can say that as well
But like if you knew that there's there's a whole like philosophical debate
Phil's skicophical debate you had there
Wolf you can't criticize a film because you dislike the actions of a character making choice
Okay, so then don't criticize the last jedi or black panther or anything for that matter
That's a terrible argument, you know
He's he's he's trying to he's doing the argument where the character made a choice that they would make and you don't like that
Choice versus the character made an inconsistent. That's not even that's not even the argument. I was making I still think that she would have made that choice
not to mention, um
People keep thinking that i'm saying the movie sucks because this one thing I don't know where you got that from but you know
I don't know. I feel that even if we assume if we go with the idea that she can influence the future
Then that just makes it worse
No, I don't think she can
Uh, so wolf
Who are you gonna close with movie sucks. There we go. Have you changed your rating from one out of ten?
no
And given that the chat can't seem to actually come up with a conclusion that doesn't contradict
Some other person the chat comes up with I don't think I ever will
Because I mean when it comes down to is the characters are retarded. You can't get past that
The cinematography is bland
The music is not good
And I know someone is going to point out the one track that plays like three or four times in the movie
The movie does not own that track that on the nature of daylight is from a different film
Like six other films have used it. It doesn't get credit for that
Um acting is wooden
effects are
And the whole time travel thing is just so I want to highlight two two things from chat first one
Mola wolf a protagonist allowed to make evil choices
Yes, because what we said implied that they should never be allowed to make evil choices. Come on
Secondly, uh adoption is a stupid argument. Are you denying that the connection between a mother and her biological child is stronger than an adopted child?
Yes, I deny that a million times over. Are you fucking kidding me? You can have a connection to anything
It's part of what makes humans so very much manipulatable or manipulable
But yes
Adopted so if you have a terrible biological child a mother can
Actually actively hate them versus the adopted child that they grew an amazing bond with
And plus I don't know why that was a question
You have to add on the baggage of she knows it's going to die horribly and painfully at a young age
And that's why I brought up earlier
You could also say that if she really really loves this potential child, right because the child doesn't exist yet
She loves his potential child and she wouldn't want it to have a short life where all it where it just suffers in misery and dies
Have a kid then think about your question again
Motherfucker, I would love my adopted child as well as my biological child
This is a very confusing argument
There are people who have people in their families that they really do not love versus people that they
Isn't that like a really wholesome message like the family you choose versus the family that you?
Yeah, I love you because I can smell my genes
So much value
Everybody you can say mola you will guys. This is not something that I
What's wrong with you?
Do you do you actually think you can't love an adopted child as much as a biological?
If you found out if like if you have like if you found out you were adopted, would you love parents less?
I'm confused that this people in chow think adopted children can't be loved as much as biological children. This is
A little sad. I don't know. It's like do they all
This person also think that you can't love a friend as much as you love a relative
What's going on chat
I don't exactly know what the position is here
I don't yeah, I disagree heavily. I think the yeah
That's the family is beyond blood
Like it's as much as that sounds sappy. I think it's true
So
Let's see, um, you love your child regardless if it's adopted your blood I agree I love the
Related to biology doesn't mean stronger love now I could i'm down with the idea
That if someone is like especially if you're a mother and you have a kid you might have a predisposition
Towards loving it more or on average. They might be loved more
But averages don't translate into individual circumstances you can't love a friend the same way you love a relative why
Why yeah
Yeah, like i'm legitimately kind of curious why maybe you guys realize right that me and rags could have been brought up in the same household
From age one and told we were brothers and we'd never know the difference
There's nothing that allows us to know the truth outside of someone telling us
Yeah, and I and some people hate their children
Some people some parents hate their biological children and yet they have to clarify
It obviously differs from family to yeah, it's so it's such an individual thing
Like the idea that you can't love an adopted kid as much as you love a biological child stuff going insane
If anyone in the chat has adopted i'm sorry
Yeah, like honestly if you think this way if you're adopted you there's no there's no lesser experience there
If you're adopted you get a free fuck you to all the people saying this
Um, and yeah, just to clarify opposition isn't that you love adopted children more or you love biological children more?
It's that anything could happen
it's it's completely up in the air because
I don't think I I could I could turn it by blood like if say you're like a parent you have one biological
No, don't worry chat we're not saying everyone is saying one thing okay, yeah
Don't worry
This has been this has been interesting to say the least because a rival is clearly a contested film
It's like well
I say that I feel like me rags wolf and a friend of mine are the only people who like don't like it
But uh, there's people in chat who didn't like it as well
Yes, I did refer to chat as chat. What do you want me to say?
Everyone's individual names who are making the claims of is everyone who doesn't list them. I'm not gonna do that
Read out all of their names starting from the top is molar an only child. No, I had no no
All the hates adoption. Wait. No, wouldn't it be the reverse?
I'm an only child
If that's if that's uh relevant
Probably not adopted because I look like my parents, but I could be
so in conclusion, um
Wolf's mind has not changed rags will is contingent upon other information to change me and jay's minds have changed
Slightly. Yeah, I think we were both like one step towards a five
And I think that it was for I think i've learned some stuff today that I was uh unaware of at the very least
Arrival is not as bad as it can get and i'm i'm sorry to say this. I I feel like wolf's gonna be upset
Interstellar is much worse than arrival
But that's for another day we'll get there one day because I know those people in chat are gonna be very upset that I just said
You made you like made me not like interstellar anymore, so
I mean there's parts of interstellar. I still like there is part of
Before me. I agree that interstellar is worse than arrival much worse much
Wait, what's your number for interstellar jay?
Four
Maybe three
I probably agree with like a four actually. I three think i'd go with a two
I really like the parts. I like though. That's that i'm realizing that I hate the hate like
dumb, but
The parts I like are a nine and the parts I hate they're one
I can't I can't put them together in my mind because it's like different films all the way to you
Oh good news chat as well. I actually today finished the first renderer. That's that's possibly ready for release of captain marvel
I'm finally getting a new video out. It's nearly two hours
And you guys won't hate me for for going after captain marvel compared to arrival, right?
That's we're gonna be fine on that one. I I think
That one's not we're gonna be debating that next
Oh oof said no one cares
No one cares about what?
Captain marvel because it's old news
I i'm sorry. Okay, i'm gonna break this to oof oof. I know you guys. I know you guys told me not to
The force awakens is not a new film
Yes, it is. No
No, check check google check google. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. I just my consciousness. Just check it transport
2016 when it came out. It is not a new fit a lot of people have assumed because I was covering it that it was new
The force awakens came out in
2001 2001 that's when it came out
But plus 15 years 14 years
I
But yes, i'm actually excited to get it out i've been working on it for fucking million years
Ninja cat said I was adopted. I is that a good or bad considering what we've been discussing?
I think we just I think we've decided it's a because it depends on it. It's a neutral perhaps
Um, but yeah rags your orphan hatred is spread in the chat
My orphan hatred, where do you even get that?
You also you always you did
Yeah, you made you said sacrifice the blood of orphans when we were what were we doing when you said that?
Was that during the the what was that movie?
We watched the witch because the blood is intrinsically fused with the emotional concept of disappointment and sadness
That's a quote it gives it more power
I don't think anyone could deny
So don't go any counter. I like the blood of a serious quote in a meme
So
Anyway, are we finally ready to actually move on to subject to the more important subject? I think you guys would agree
Memes someone said no orphan is gone forever
Unless they die often
Hey, probably
He's he's back
Who what?
Palpatine is back
I'm sorry. I'm just still taking that in
Do you know that jeremy john's videos talking to you about where he's explaining his concern about that?
He like starts talking about bits and pieces of
Like what things could mean
And then he just randomly has this like thought where he's like, oh no that can't work because what happened to episode a and then
He does it again later and he's like man episode a fucked up a lot of things
That's uh something I like about jeremy as of late
He's been red-billed on tlj or star wars in general really
I would just like to ask because has it been confirmed anywhere that they're calling this episode?
Maybe they're just retrying episode eight
Maybe we're going to get into the cinema and it says star wars episode eight the rise of skywalker
I feel like they've got the the the one x, you know, the roman numerals going i'm pretty sure they did do that
one x
What are you what's your i x? I don't know x
What what am I a scholar? No, what am I a linguist hired to understand alien language? No
Fucking idiot
Okay, so the first thing I was going to show you guys that would be fucking funny. I got this
In the actual title crawl the amount of people who said no one's ever really got in chat
people keep saying
If you look at the comments on the and the trailer the whole thing is filled with no one's really gone
So, um, um, oh, let me go to the watch together here
Oh, we're doing we're doing pictures first
But so this this guy sent me this on twitter apparently calls played me in a in a either star wars celebration or some kind of
Comic-con I guess
I didn't know
Someone said no one's ever really adopted
But uh, yeah, I I didn't know that cosplaying me was a thing
Don't you guys think that it's too specific to not actually be cosplaying me?
Like it can't be anything else with a gas mask. Yeah, I guess it is it's like
It's an alien's colonial marines, too
Oh, the girl for regs
Oh shit a girl for me. Well, yeah, I mean i'm fucking amazing. Of course, there's a girl for me
No, no, you are the girl regs
Yeah, but she's still alive. So it clearly can't be me
Do you wear suits? Because I kill myself trying to turn on my fucking flashlight so it can't
I think for the sake of law. I have to say that I do wear suits. Otherwise people will be upset
Then there's um a beautiful one that I think this is on jay's twitter. I
I don't know if we've seen it before but I find it amusing. I was in my stream. I got sent that
I don't remember saying that before but it's funny
Uh
And there's some there's some neat art
I think we may have seen some of it before but I just want to be like, you know what?
These guys make some cool shit
It's to be appreciated
Oh cool
Even god blessed is wearing a mask. Yeah
Is it gonna be in the law now that i'm adopted?
Absolutely, probably I like that. Uh, uh cynic snacks is being eaten by cynical reviews
They should have had like a terrified face on it
Yeah little arms waggling trying to get free
And then I know you guys have seen this before but it's because I had to just it was just too good to not show
immediately, but um
How fucking why am I fishing?
I forgot was there was there a fishing name? I think cherry tomatoes as well
I take offense to the idea that I need to be kept on a leash
Wait, you're looking at the previous one. We're on the next one now rex
E.R. Is just striding next to running act one. I think the idea is I like this one
I like this we're still trying to get er and act man on here. I think is the idea there
Oh
Tell me when you want x-men on i'll i'll shoot him a message because i'm friends with him on discord
So we will definitely sort that out at some point. I'm curious what he would want to cover
Why does blessed pike man have a mask?
You you're on the wrong picture rags
I like why does blessed pike man have a mask? Why wouldn't he have what experience? Are you saying that we don't have masks?
Well, are you saying that masks are exclusive to tall people?
No, they're not
So then why can't he wear a mask? Why would you let him enjoy him asking why he does?
I'm not i'm not making any judgments on it. I'm just curious why he is wearing a mask
What is with oof oof salt first maula doesn't understand determinism
When was it even we were just talking about the mechanics of everything to do with the time travel
It doesn't matter if we've got the labels right or not. It really doesn't
This reminds me of the whole like we explain a thing and then someone goes. Oh, yes, you lean left on that
Like okay. I didn't we just talk about the thing instead of
But like so that's just pointless
Whether or not I understand determinism
I was just trying to like talk about it mechanically through what jay was bringing to the table, which I found pretty interesting in general
Set the word determinism. I believe it doesn't it's not understand it. It's me and I don't understand it
Well, this is the thing i've not claimed to understand anything beyond just looking at it mechanically from what rules I keep getting given
That's it
Calm down with that then he fails to recognize the desire to continue your own genes
When was the conversation about whether or not you have an adopted child versus a child about continuing your own genes?
Apparently if you continue your own genes, you love the gene
It was clearly about the fact that she loved the child not that she was continuing your own genes
I'm going to adopt a child despite you
That's not a thing
And then now he fails to recognize that an unbridled mare is not equivalent to his critiques
You understand that there's a large portion of my fan base that prefer
When I actually just rip into a movie
From the heart instead of trying to break it down systematically with writing comparisons, right?
And like it doesn't mean that I didn't work hard on the video, dude
But like what's going on like why are you so angry is it because I didn't google?
Uh, it's a massive
If you want me to google determinism and then read out the definition
Will that help I was just talking about it from within the the context of the movie
You would love a you would love a biological child more so inherently than an adopted child
No, you're gonna have to give no, you know, you have to give like you have to give facts for that
You can't just say it's just not true. I
I did decline your statement. It's bullshit
I mean I could understand someone caring more about a biological child than
A yeah an adopted one I could understand that but that is not a fact not inherent
That is bullshit. It's literally this is the way people feel and that's a fact
Literally people don't like being stabbed is not a fact because you know, there are people out there and fucking relating that to adoption
Like most people do not like being stabbed. But when you like you've got very proud adoptive like parents
And this is not a rule that's like even applies to
I would like I would assume like not even a vast majority of people this rule can be applied to you
And sure. Yeah sure some people yeah, but no and for sure
I do not understand every element of every form of potential time travel
I don't even though I don't even think I think people be unhappy with me referring to as time travel. I
I'm just talking about the movie and the rules in which the movie is trying to apply and I thought that I understood it
Relatively. I thought I was doing all right. I'm at least I think you understood it the quickest
Oof just hates you because you're adopted
People that was adopted by badeya i'm, okay with this
So, uh moving on we have another piece of fantastic. I like to believe um
Vito replied to my comment on his video his terrible video about the epic game store
What did he say? Right vito made a video on this we will hang on say what he said, then we'll give context i'm curious. All right
So, um, well vito back in december of 2018. So this was back in december of last year. So when things were even worse
Yeah, he made a video called why the epic game store is better than steam
no, no
Yeah, it's a terrible at least that's something we can completely agree on yeah, terrible terrible video awful video
I expect better. So I said this video was really bad when it came out and still managed to age poorly
And he said I stand by everything in this video epic has shown themselves to be interested
In acting morally over profit and if it's an insane scheme to harvest our data for a non-controlling
Minority owner of their company then they sure fooled me
Competition in the marketplace is always good for the consumer
Even if the occasional exclusive is being used to boost the platform's ability to be competitive
Not even once
Oh, not even once but we're not living in a world where it was just once the attack
borderlands
Borderland is not not not a small game
Yeah, i like i'd be like holy shit
Why does it have to be an exclusive period the most anti-consumer thing you could possibly do other than like straight up murdering your consumers?
Is exclusivity? Okay, why can't it just be on both?
Another one from oof oof i'm not denying that people are not incapable of love for an adopted child
but the genetic offspring will inherently be recognized due to the
Will inherently be recognized inherently be recognized
Due to the continued existence of your genes
Okay, genuine question
If I took a mother and she had a birth baby and then she was taken out of the room immediately and five years later
She was presented with two five-year-old children
Do you think that 10 out of 10 times for all scenarios they'd be able to tell which one is the genetic?
You see where i'm going with with that though
Well, I think what he's saying is that
The genetic carrying on her genetics is going to inform her decision so that you have I disagree with that
Entirely as well you have your hardwired to care about your own genetic genes
That's not for everyone something to it, but I would have to look into the science, but I very very strongly suspect
I know you're gonna have not I know plenty of people who do not care to continue their genes
Yeah, I don't have to continue my genes. I mean you're really gonna have to go. I know one right here
You're gonna have to cite some reputable scientific sources rather than just saying shit even wolf
Even if it shows a general trend that doesn't mean anything as long as we can prove
Yeah, I know. I mean that's the thing
You'd have to prove that every person is hardwired in some
Way to want to continue their genes. I don't think that's something you even could prove
Even if it's hardwired to be more likely that's that wouldn't that wouldn't help you out. Yeah, I know
I completely agree with you
I I'm just saying like he's he's just saying shit and not actually backing up is that you are inherently hardwired to care for your genes
Um, if you have like an adopted sibling you really hate
You are inherently
Caring about you. Are you referring to self-preservation?
Because that's slightly different from preserving your line of
DNA if you will
Isn't the fact like rags. Do you desperately want to have a child at some point?
No
Does this disprove that then?
Like I'm just I get why most people might want that. Yeah, no, so do I
But I have I just do not care
Like I don't see value. I don't see my value or the value of my legacy in the physical genetics of what my body has
He may have been your father boy, but he wasn't your daddy yondu there we go that perfectly sums that actually yeah
That's actually a really good
That's beautiful, thank you
so anyway
uh
Yeah, so about the veto thing. Um
I guess
There's something weird going on
This guy's saying that my rags interests are anecdotal evidence compared to overall trends
Yeah, our point overall trends don't prove your point. That is our point. That's our
Existence of a rule. Yeah
Like this thing always happens. No, it doesn't always happen because this other time that didn't happen
Ah, that's anecdotal evidence. Yeah, it's like if 99 out of 100 times
That's the case
You're saying that the whole thing is it cannot happen at molar
No one cares about the people, you know, there's extensive data on these matters basic physical psychology. Jesus guys science
What the fuck are you doing?
Sorry, if anyone can cite the study then sure
No, but that wouldn't prove anything
Our whole point is that not in every case?
Is it true also rags? You're a furry weirdo. You don't really represent most people. I literally only represent myself
What the fuck are they actually arguing? You don't count as a person
Rags is less of a human being
Now if anything with the argument i'll i'll help these people out the argument they should be making
Is whether or not she weighs up?
the the
15 whatever lot years of life this potential human will have compared to the
agonizing end of that person's life
That's what you should be arguing how those two things are valued in her mind
Now let's keep that one for free
Yeah, that that if they said we don't
More than if they said it makes sense that she would want the child because she's already grown a connection to it
Is much more to concede there but to say
People will prefer here if passing on your genes is the argument her genes didn't exactly do much. There's no stud
Okay, so the idea the daughter dies you do remember that right?
They're like, oh we can't link studies
There is no study that proves that everyone will prefer a biological child over an adopted child in every case
This is not a thing that can happen
I'm totally down with the idea that there's a general trend that would support people preferring genetic children
But that's not the argument that we're making we're not saying it's impossible
I can't believe the person started the person who started the people saying that like that it wasn't saying that adopted children are loved less
Like whoa, look at this
Homosexuals also deviate from the general rule of continued existence of humanity. This doesn't disprove the rule
Yeah, now that i'm homosexual, but i'm confused
So if you made the statement every human wants to
Create to breed and create children to continue their existence and then I say rags here is homosexual
Well bisexual, but he doesn't even want children
so that can't be considered a rule and then you say that doesn't disprove the rule because
You can't make a you you can say that it it happens more often than it doesn't but it's not
a consistently
Applicable rule that's always saying
Are we good so right, uh rhinos spewing acidic milk, I think
Yes, is that the picture I actually like to assume that this was drawn in like a school and then they'd spare time
they were just doodling
but I know that it has to be custom because
What rhino in what context have you seen that you know?
Also, there's liquid out of the horns that that's that's coincidental there's lots of things called. Yeah
What are the skulls in the also it says milk pit arena down at the bottom so
We've caused a lot of discussion in chat right now, look at this molar i'm a lesbian
I'm in a lesbian relationship with my girlfriend is pregnant
She always wanted a child but despite providing no genetic material for the child as I can't I will still love the child
But well someone said if rags didn't have condoms or birth control he'd be in a dilemma
Well, no, I would just i'd have a kid
I'm not saying I wouldn't like love my kid or anything or if I had a kid. I wouldn't care about them
I'm just saying I don't care to carry on my genes
I'm saying that you're predisposed to continue your lineage. Not that you have to
Nothing we've said disagrees with that. Yeah
This is going to be like the most controversial episode of this show. It'll be the one that everyone said was the worst
I guess
This is this is our episode three. Is it 307 or was it 311? I think it was 307
Okay, but I don't even think
How many people in the chat I didn't think what we had said was controversial until chat react it's some of chat
Apparently we said a lot of dumb unscientific stuff to make a point that I agree with I don't even know what that
What it was that we said that you disagreed that I said it was inherent
Because it's not
Right. Yeah, i'm not we're not disagreeing that it's inherent would mean a rule that we all have to
Abide by it's not inherent if someone deviates
Okay, yeah
This is all started because we said you can love an adopted child
I feel like i'm in cloudland
What's the next
Like
Well, I feel like we should probably try and like there's going to be a response. Hopefully we can end it with the next one
You inherently want to live yet. Some people are suicidal. I agree with mr. Man, dude
Yeah
It can't be predisposed and inherent at the same time
Um
Well, what about the the the idea of
What mr?
Just meaning that's the two terms that we've like
Two times that we've had a lot of this this day
Yeah, it's been a semantic stream. I suppose it can why aren't we getting clown pants emojis in the
Clown world clown what's world milk? Well, well mauler said something about he feels like he's in clown world. Yes
So predisposed
So predisposed means make someone liable or inclined to a specific attitude action or condition
In an inherent means existing in something as a permanent essential character. Yeah. All right. All right
So they're different yeah, and oof oof is I feel like oof oof thinks they're synonyms
I don't know that maybe one of us mixed it up
Maybe yeah, so, uh the idea that you want
To by being a human you should probably want to push your genes forward just by the fact that we're
organisms that were designed for that but
It doesn't necessarily mean so and even if that were true 100 which I don't necessarily disagree with because of the amount of
People that don't want to actually
Continue their genes that all they'll actively
Take actions that prevent it
That doesn't translate necessarily into
having biological children or being
uh
More in love with the biological children compared the child compared to an adopted one
Because like isn't there a whole thing about like protecting your tribe's children whether or not they're biological
Like we haven't in um
we actually isn't I can remember reading a study about how like we there's a reason why we um
We find babies of any like creature cute
Because it's like it's supposed to be the thing about protecting young
Or something like that. This is what I mean like feel like this is all we're arguing is that there's no definitive rule
That's all we ever did right. I feel like we might need to confirm that
Movie bob wants to come on what there's no fucking way
I would never believe you'd want to come on
I think yeah, that would hurt my brain even more than watching it
He like you understand like he wants to kill people like me
A little bit sweet. What was that tweet that you sent earlier mauler the one
We wanted to kill people. Oh, here it is. Oh the one I linked to yeah
He didn't want to kill people. He just wanted to threaten people with death
Yeah
Yeah, you said it's about uh convincing them
He said I found a closed fist to be the solid place to start though. There's plenty of variety be
Beyond that and that was the context being
Uh that he was responding to someone
complaining about hateful violent people and he just wants to
I don't know how we can solve the the problem with the violent people kill them. Yeah
Yeah, yeah those violent people
I'll just fucking those violent people need to be shown a fist
The original quote was this nation is so full of hateful violent people and I don't know how we're supposed to beat them
And bob says all movie bob says
I found a closed fist to be a solid place to start though
There's plenty of variety beyond that at the end of the day
They're just bones and meat and sufficiently cowed most will stifle before you have to break any of that
So long as they're convinced you would
He's saying he's he start with your fists and intimidate them both physical violence arguably terrifying but
It's not getting the stuff and they think it's okay
This is the same level as death to the immoderates
wilderness chatting said the point I wanted to make was that I have a biological child and I will
Have a non-biological child. The love will be equal no matter what. I agree with you guys. You know, I I understood you agreed
I just wanted to point out that like things like that were being said
as a result
Of the fact that we wanted to establish that you can love an adopted child as much as a biological one and that was in contention
Is
Apparently the issue is you guys dismissed the idea that there can be and often is
A strong connection between a biological I literally said I can understand someone caring more about that
Yeah, wait, they said we know it's not a definitive rule. That was the only point we made
What's what's the disagreement you agree with us?
So like so many arguments come back to that eventually just both people agreeing at each other loudly
What did we say that made them think that we didn't agree I want to know that what was the quote that started this all off
I don't know. We'd have to draw it all the way back
But I do distinctly remember saying I can personally for me. I can totally understand someone caring
More for their biological child than the adopted one. However
You can still very much love them exactly the same
The kind of person who's going to care more for their biological
The less so veto is here I feel like someone must have had to do or something
Do we
Um
Do you want to go forward with memes bob bob bob is a
Very clever man is is all that needs to be said there
This is actually a relatively older meme, but you guys should be able to recognize it very efficiently
Oh, it's an older meme, but it checks out. It does check out
barrier of block
That what did he say this thanks for watching this high level review high level review. Yeah, high level review. Oh, man
I would
Oh fucking hell box is in an enemy land for two turns. It does make the game feel a bit a little bit boxy
I love the flavor text interrupt artificial
That's great, I love it
barrier of
He legit said artificial barriers of block
Now we've got I can't believe that
Some some pro fucking skit. Jesus. This is going to take a while. This is also terrifying in its own, right?
But it is a bayouin
Oh my god
This is terrifying jesus christ, what the fuck questions for southpaul if the ethap cast had rhino milking powers
And you had to milk them. How would you he says grab him by the tits i'm saying they're like
The little alien is behind me
Okay, so there's a lot to unpack here obviously there's you know the tits
but
Um, so we have the that weird creepy alien behind wolf
Which is still to my day
There's the rhino behind you rags with scissors next to your paw. Yeah scissors. Um, we have a spider and we have
Because of the ace is a thing. What's the uh, oh is that that's yeah, is that a book of interstellar marines?
Is that uh
Aliens colonial marines helmets on the because we I think so
That's also because you you put on a bunch of helmets and they're like, yes
Patrick saying it's my favorite addition to the whole efap series
Is that vino
No, I feel mean for this friends reviews. That's I think it might I feel mean for this. What does that say bayou?
Oh
Is it well, what does major lathe look like do we know?
I I know I know that face from somewhere was maybe that was rent reviews. You've speculated i'm just gonna go peek
I'm i'm gonna search for interviews to see if that's him. I'm pretty sure it might be him. I'm pretty sure
The chat's saying it's him. I feel like this was just one big excuse for him to draw us all with a bunch of tits
Probably and i'm not gonna say that anything doesn't look good on me
But that's a nice time mauler
Daniel do you have like the accurate number of tits for the animals that I think it's walruses have for
I don't know. I've never looked that up exactly
Yeah, i'll look it up how many can't believe i'm doing this how many tips
I'm, sorry. I'm, sorry fbi
How many tits do walruses have?
Four is four. Oh
It is red. It's accurate
Dogs have they went did you google how many nipples all of these had to
So it says that typically larger small male or female dogs have eight to ten nipples. Okay. All right
So we're anatomic we're anatomically correct apart from the fact that
I identify as male
Okay
So there we go. Yeah, i'll just save that to my weirdo file
Beowin said it was requested by popular but demand by the discord
So mauler's discord asked for this
What is it like to uh, i'm i'm a proud, uh trans man
Trans canine male. I I guess I am too. I didn't know it until now, but
Morris is a trolrus
One day each individual beowin is going to go for like several hundred pounds or several thousand. Let's let's dream big
It's just it's gonna happen tits are like weird grapes
Yeah, they are why don't I even name this file weird
Wolf the book look familiar. Yes, it does. It's interstellar marines by uh by by joseph anderson. I know we should we should read that
We did no like we I have to know how it ends. Oh
Like do you really do you really want to go through all no, maybe there's a sparknotes version on like youtubers
Well, I might read it instead of watching Lord of the Rings who is honest. No, don't you dare?
Look at the book are I know I know beowin. I know have you seen what the uh discord is telling me to do no
Specifically wolf to annoy you the the discord is telling me to watch
To watch what the hobbit first
I i've watched the hobbit before no, they're telling me to watch the hobbit without launching. Oh, no, no, don't do that
Don't do that the hobbit. They're not
I mean, here's the thing
As someone who is a big fan of the lord of the ring
I personally own all three blu-ray extended editions of the hobbit and I do enjoy them
However, I admit and I will be like the first person to say that i've watched pretty much every video on youtube
Tearing apart the hobbit and i've enjoyed all of them
I mean I i've outright said that just writes best videos are his hobbit videos
I think there's some of the best hobbit videos on youtube
um
That I mean, I like the movies, but you're never going to hear me calling them good
You like them i'm surprised
Yeah, I I enjoy them. I just writes just about just writes harmon quest videos pretty good
Yeah, I mean here's the thing here's the thing just right when he actually makes a good video
He makes some really good content. I was subscribed to him for a couple years
It was just that the whole last jedi thing and the objective debate is what made me lose respect for him
But i'm never gonna not say i'm never gonna say he has never made a good video because I i'll point you out like
10 or 15 videos he's made that I think are excellent
Oh, there you go
Looks like we've actually managed to reach some form of a happy conclusion as well
Who've said you are genetically predisposed to loving a genetically related offspring rather than an adopted child. However, there are exceptions to nearly every rule
Well, I would say that most I would say that the vast majority of people who adopt kids love them
I guess they would be the exceptions to the rule
No, I I think I think the general rule is that if you adopt something
You will you will love them you'll grow to love them. Yeah, I mean
Obviously there are exceptions. I mean you look at the whole daddy of five
Yeah, sure. There's asshole parents out there. Yeah, but i'd say that's the exception
Yeah, I think the exception is bad parents not
You know, well, this is the thing. There's a lot of genetic parents who are like horrifically bad parents who
Get to the point of you wonder if they're like psychopathic
Um
And then you have the people who get adopted
Typically will be loved typically because the whole idea is that they actually adopted the child for a reason, right?
You're like a despicable me so I feel like there's a lot of like to speak of me exactly like exactly like
He adopted three children because he wanted to steal a pyramid from
With cookies there are more there are more hilarious images to come
Wolf calls efap chat
Everyone disliked that
I love that. It's a picture of tiger woods, too
And this one is another one where we're gonna have to we're gonna have to decipher this with the scholars
Oh, that's that's dense
So we've got use. Um, I think the idea is that the toxic brood were attacked and killed potentially during this
I can't make it any bigger. Is that the giant baby trump balloon in the back on fire?
Yeah, are you leaving?
There's a pay flag inside the
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. See pay
Paste destroyed as well
Yeah, that's the boob thing. That's the boob thing. I couldn't I couldn't decipher what that creature was
This is the world that the liberals want. Yes
Welcome to pay. Look it's right there
What's that sign in the background say?
Are you living on turtle reality tactile tactile?
Long man bad arena. What's on the on the window is something bad. Oh, oh, okay. Long man bad. Okay. Yeah
Okay
Like this is some you know
Again, I just like to picture the doing this in like class because class is boring and they'd rather draw about the theoretical war between
Imagine pay when was drawing the class and the teacher looked over his shoulder
Didn't even say anything just kept on walking it's like not even gonna open that can of work
See the first image ever taken of a supermassive black hole look in the black hole you mighty and despair supermassive massive
Oh
That's
I love it. I'm just glad that now that it's canon that we're all trans. Uh, we can't be criticized in any way for anything
Oh my god
Are we
The spider has summoned an image of is that like it's gonna be totaled it's gotta be I I love that face
It's so the face he's making is fantastic
The spider with his hands up
He's summoning he's got to use the plant here somehow
I love that. That's so good. His face. Oh his face is so so pure. It's like an old 30s cartoon
He looks like the youngest old person i've ever seen yeah, he does look like a really young old person
Maybe that is the case with totaled
This is this is obviously a meme that didn't make it it's like 29, but she looks like she's for taylor
Oh when I when I saw the freaking um amadea I died laughing
Whoever did the amadea dear god. It was good
Oh my god
So this is j. We got general grief us. We got a
Uh owl we got what's that? So some of these I don't know who is the who is the raptor?
Who's the raptor? Who's the hyena?
Batman who's batman alligator the popcorn
I'm, not actually sure
Yeah, does anyone have a grievous pfp? Is that a thing? I don't know
Yeah, I don't recognize can we adopt a better script for the last chat?
Guys, I don't think that's how it works
But you can never love the adopted script as much as you love
Ryan johnson's baby
Yeah, I don't know who these guys are. I know maybe most of them. I know the rags guy
Yeah, he's he's a fucking hot. I know that
Frog oh speaking of frogled. He's got a new pfp. He does indeed. Yeah, it looks pretty good. Yeah. He's a bird now
He's a he's well, he's a frog in a bird mask is bid doctor bid plague dog plague bid
What are we going to call him because we can't call him frog
I think we can still do it
Okay, chat
Imagine freeing but he's his face is turned into a plague doctor mask, but it's still green
Figure out something witty to call him
And then i'm going to call him that for the rest of his life
Oh, maybe some of the discord member. Well until he changes it again. Let's not commit
Well, I think the meme is the pictures. Yeah, um, who are the um
Yeah, fill us in on who these other guys are apparently one of them is uh, it was the lag
Plagueis verticus
Plagueis verticus
adopted
The green death epic game store will save the industry. I feel I think veto missed the criticism
So he's just he's waiting to find out
I just I how how often do we have to explain how terrible the epic game store is?
Is that going to be the next I just need to make a video
And just link people whenever they say yeah, the epic game store is great. He's like, oh that's going to be the next debate mauler
Rags versus I don't want it
And then I like this fun
M rhino milton tens of tism massives meme use elevator music totaled and i'm rags
I
Love that that comes from tro's editors not being able to decide
On how to place the apostrophe
Just like this is insane. What do we do?
All right, well that does it for that that means we're into videos
Um, we're in for a treat
There are so many insane things to cover is everybody happily in the watch to gather
Yes, no, let me let me uh, let me bring it up
I'm sad that it's recommending get out a new perspective lesson from the screenplay. Yes, of course it is
I actually like lessons from the screenplay sometimes
That's how I feel with just right I like him sometimes scroll past the tits and the wall and the cosplay
Here we go
You
Why not but you guys ready
Yeah
Why I don't know what to expect
Bc
What is an email
Efap stands for employee family assistance program
basically, it's a free voluntary
confidential
To employees and members of their immediate efap exists beyond us
It's a real thing don't barrage this poor man
It's amazing that this exists to connect with your
Not even like a meme that's what makes it so
In earnest someone said efap exposed that it apparently this he's not the only one who's running a defap
Three wait, there's another one
New york and I study at new york institute of technology
Save defap say it
So excited
I chose efap because they had a glad ride
And also my motivation was paris and that's my dream city to live here
We're centered in france guy efap makes these things happen. Okay here at efap. I was able to take four courses
I'm wondering into cultural communication
Oh, yeah, that's that's what we're big in we're really big in intercultural communications
Hey, there's probably people from loads of different cultures watching this right? Yeah
Second branding and marketing third rethinking luxury someone in the chat even pointed out. How does she not real?
Goofy as hell. Why would they yeah, why would they like that acronym? It's horrible for a serious business
They probably don't know what it means. She's clearly american though
but like
Her face she's making right
She unironically said I chose efap
I can't believe they didn't say efap. They actually say efap
I think my favorite moment in class is when we all got the opportunity to visit the um private art galleries
Oh, yes, we do a lot of that we just got done with that
Yeah, all the memes they're on they're on like posters on the wall with frames behind the glass. They're art galleries
What do you mean? It's just like a 90 percent bail
Outside of class. I would say my favorite moment was in melmart because it's one of my of course
The thing I enjoy the most in paris is that you sell the ability to work extremely hard
So I I think her reasoning for going there was because it was like one of her favorite places to visit
That's kind of circular lady. You should spend more time with efap. Yeah, efap doesn't promote that kind of circular logic
Yeah, we're not fans. Maybe they maybe they let you get away with that in frog land over there
But over here, no, no, no, no, no, we that shit don't fly. We have a few frogs here, too
Enjoy life. So there's a really nice balance compared to
Hang on it didn't play for me. I gotta rewind the chat need to hear her beautiful
You're gonna love it maul. It's a really nice balance compared to new york. The art at efap is very unique
It's something that you don't see in new york. And I think that's very she's right
You can't deny this the special quality that it has it makes you feel something that you wouldn't be able to feel anywhere else
And I think it's the way people express you need this but to change the visuals to the meat
Oh
There's so many ways to fuck with this
Like imagine like fucking compositing all of the memes on the walls here as she's walking
100 someone's gonna do that. Someone's definitely gonna do that next
100 it's more than I could have expected and the people here at efap are so welcoming
And I would recommend it to every single person that
I love how this works perfectly for us. I know it's beautiful
There you go guys there's two trailers designed specifically for efap
There's another one if if someone can actually like edit in the memes we could use
Intro for the show
Um, this one is so I don't know if you guys saw the original of this but right there's a show called eight out of
10 cats jay may have heard of it
I've seen most of it. Oh, there you go
Um, and basically they have this portion
Where school children will enact a play and what they're supposed to do is figure out what willed event they're doing
There's like a kid's version of something that happened. You're confusing your shows. That's big fat quiz
Is it that's big fat quiz that does that oh my bad, but it's it's still jimmy car that hosts both of them, right?
Yeah, yeah, that's probably why I'm mixing them up. Okay. Well, that's
Just replace that with that. But yeah
but the thing is like
One of the guests takes the time to actually say that it's not that good
And it's funny and they've decided to put faces on each of the uh, the peoples and i'm gonna have to pause this a lot
Okay, it's a tradition on the big fat quiz of the year for the children of mitchell brook primary school in neasden to produce
One of their unusual school plays for us
Also, I was with um, I was on the great british podcast with these guys
He um, you know the the bit at the end of the lion king trailer where they do the horrific new version of the song wolf
Which one the lion king trailer with it
Well, yeah, yeah, which song oh wait, you mean the
Tamil and poomba one. Yeah, um
Oh, yeah, you remember it plays for like four seconds or five seconds. Whatever small
Yeah, he got a warning from youtube when we played that section
He apparently got a message saying like your stream might be taken down for copyright. It was just like oh
They can do it like live
Oh, yeah, they've done that to me before
It's fucking this is this is why it sucks. But pausing is like imperative
It was the joker trailer that got claimed. I thought he said it was the I thought we figured out that it was the thing
It might have been the joker trailer then my bet
Which by the way looks pretty decent
Yeah
I actually think it looks good
And that's weird because I haven't thought of a dc movie being good since like the dark night
Did you not like shazam? What about i haven't watched it. We're not shazam
I thought shazam was pretty all right. I mean shazam's moments have not all right
I mean, it didn't really look interesting to me, but I don't know anything about it
Dissected some tropes pretty well. It was had pretty consistent character writing which
My joker video got claimed and I didn't use the whole trailer and no sound and it was cropped
Thanks one of others. That sounds like shit vito
Yeah, I don't know what the i'm hoping they're pretty lenient with stuff like the big fat quiz but i'll still be careful with it
All right, find the whole episodes on youtube this joke
They play the the like the first half an hour of the movie in fast pace, right? I can skip most of this if I remember correctly
Or I can just play and pause it march like gladiators is
That's uh, that should be
Well, I guess not the individual piece, but yeah
Could you theoretically upload a movie to a degree of speed that the bots couldn't catch?
And then have people play it at 0.25 speed and it actually works out as a movie or no
I don't know. Uh
Someone find out. Well, I there are a lot of videos where it's like shrek, but at
300 speed and those are still up. Well, so yeah, but you can't
Slow down a video to make it play normally because then you get like one frame a second
Can't speed up a video to make it play not yeah, but you can't do that with this right here
Yeah, so this is going really fucking fast
You guys love this movie. That's great. Oh, yeah, definitely my favorite movie
Well, you get the point
Sorry if I bit anyone's ears
I
Thought they were shit
You have to pause this much there are like full episodes of the show on youtube
You well, you never know the problem is right. Sometimes they let things stay up
Um, but they monetize it but then if you stream it making money actively they try and take the stream down
This is the complicated this is why i'm always trying to be careful and this is the thing right even though i'm overly careful
Um, we still lost the fucking mission impossible episode. I was really surprised about that. We're still that's
11 days from now that will be released or challenged by
The people who struck it so
11 days and we'll finally get the fad back guys in the canal is one of the worst acting i've ever seen
Really bad
Boo
Boo is right
Where my pause and play is delayed I don't think foxes would say that
No, he'd probably be on board with it. Actually. He's like, yes, it's shit
I can't it's not letting me play i'm scared
Um, why is the woman that rags because I agree with shawn lock
Oh shit
It's unup to it and give them a story they can handle this obviously story's got too much grit in it and they don't
Does everyone love fucking jimmy kah's laugh
Yeah
Oh
I was gonna say britain have the best panel shows
Not necessarily because britain are funnier just because I don't know people aren't running as funny panel shows outside of britain for some reason
They just well over here. It just seems so much tamer in comparison
They love like our television over here is a lot less
Like you can't you can't go on tv and say fucking shit and you can't have cereal commercials with big old tits in them
I don't think dara deserves to be jack
It says, uh, blessed southpaw said that the mission possibly fab is back up for me. It still says copyright dispute in progress
Does it?
Is it that while it's in progress it's available or?
I can look now
Yeah, because I I can't see it without that that's kind of which episode is it episode 28
It's up
Maybe it does stay active while it's in dispute. I don't know
Neat, okay, you guys always had access to it good stuff. I didn't know that
We did it
Shadowed by that guy hopefully they'll keep this in and these kids will see this and none of them will grow up and try and be
An actor because you're not
As if rags would have said he doesn't agree yeah as if i'm totally in agreement
I
If I ever have to mute myself to go to the bathroom it's like oh wolfs go on to get pizza
Why not? Maybe you probably did you're just not telling them. No
I'll have you know, I had breadsticks before the show
Wow, just carbs and that's just pizza without the toppings. Were they flat circular and covered in cheese?
Flat circular and covering it. No, that would not be that would not be a breadstick. It would be a weird
Yeah, it'd be a weird breadstick no, that's not what a breadstick is
Oh, it'd be a weird one. No, i'm holding a weird. Yeah, it would be different from a normal one
Right. It'd be a weird bread. It would be an exception to the rule of breadsticks is what you say
Yeah, it would definitely be a departure from the generality of attributes. We assign to breadsticks
Look all i'm saying is that you can never love a breadstick the way you can love a pizza
Unless it's little caesar's pizza in which case the breadsticks are objectively better than the pizza. What's the obviously?
um
I've not heard of that place little caesars
It's like the shittiest brand of pizza in america. Is that different from big caesars? It's it's okay
It's okay. Little caesars is all right. What's big caesars? Let me look that up
Just the uk version
Uh, no, I I made it up. I don't know big caesars big caesars. No, no big caesars is a real thing
It's actually a pizza company too is there a neutral
P
It's a medium
Big caesars pizza incorporated in east point michigan. Why is there a neutral caesars a normal average?
Medium, I'll type it in medium caesars. There's not a massive caesars
Massive caesars
It's not a medium. Oh no. There's caesar sweets someone open massive and medium caesars
Do it
I mean, I feel like someone said in chat. Uh, I think it was veto actually that the panel shows are much more political in america
I feel like the it's it's funny because I was watching the british panel shows when I was a kid
They had way more like freedom
Didn't I watch that with you and you and wolf, right rags the the stuff
That was hilarious. He would say stuff that I don't think he's allowed to say anymore
Oh, no, he's still
Yeah, have you seen this new show? I saw bits of it, but i'm serious. You saw like his old mock the week stuff, right?
He would uh, well, yeah, and well even on the more recent eight out of ten castas count down and stuff
They'll say some like really edgy stuff and some really naughty words
And over here in america, you just can't get away with saying that on like
regular like broadcast tv
You can't even get away with thinking it you can't even show boobs on tv
Well, unless it's hbo unless it's hbo in which case boobs and rape does the b stand for boobs in hbo. Yes
Game of thrones. Oh shit game of thrones is out like tomorrow, right?
Or in a couple of hours. Yeah, i'm going to my friend's house in about three hours and then god damn it
You're gonna see it before me because I gotta I have these
Annoying german and swedish friends that have agreed with me to watch it on the monday night every every week
You know, it's just shameful. I'll make sure to tell you if it sucks right after
You just mentioned bill marin shirts and I have to get hang
I I just going to send you a bunch of spoilers every single time. I watch the episode for you. It'll be
What's your bad wolf? I feel like it's going to be okay. Uh, I i'm
If it's like i'm i'm guessing it's probably going to be like
I don't think they could possibly do worse than season seven. I think
Worst case scenario, it'll be like hello season five was worse than season seven
Really? Yeah, season five is a disaster. That's the dawn season. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, don't get me wrong
I hate season five too. I just thought you would hate season seven more
um
Why would you?
I don't know. That's the one that everyone hates. Yes
I'd have to watch it to be honest with you just because scientifically you're more likely to hate season five
Doesn't mean he can holy oh wait, oh
I just got an email from youtube saying they've they've completed a manual review of what the fuck. Oh
Oh
Right, there's an efap mini on the way because before rags woke up for us to record
The the thing that we haven't talked about publicly yet
Me wolf and and froggled watched some trailers
Um, it got me made a mini out of that one. Yeah, I did and it's it's relatively entertaining
I can show you after but um, it got hit with uh demonetization. I was like
Why?
What not a claim or anything just you to be like this is inappropriate for children
Like a lot of time. Yeah, so I put it through for a thing and it's come through so that's good
But I still don't know why
Contest it always goes away
Well, it depends sometimes people well when it comes to demonetization like nine times out of ten when I contest it it gets approved
It's the title that usually gets you
Yeah, so just don't make your title hitler was right and then you'll be fine
Just don't don't even say hitler is wrong. Just don't mention hitler hitler was all right
Just don't mention hitler I could see the good side and the bad
I mean i'm I'm large i'm objective about this. He had good ideas. Okay
Yeah, I mean look as boogie said there are some good things about the holocaust
Boogie says well, I think he said some good things happened as a result of the holocaust
I thought the quote was something like um, the holocaust wasn't all that bad all bad. I can't fucking remember
I don't know what shit was in his mouth. So phrasing is very important because it's a sensitive topic
Well, I remember reading it being like no
You can't have that be a soundbite
Um, even though we'll say all kinds of shit that could be sound bitten from uh this podcast
I don't know what you mean. Anyway, it's actually a good idea that you uh recorded the the the trailers with me and frogald
Because there was some good points in there. Oh, dude, uh, there's some funny bits in it
And I I it's the same thing with the the movie
The world shall remain unnamed
I don't know if it's gonna be worth watching us watch it because of how crap the movie was but
Maybe we'll have to see but yeah, the trailers won't surprise me. I was like, oh, this is actually kind of entertaining to watch
Just react to this bullshit
Um, I think I was asked on the great british podcast. Like am I potentially looking forward to it? And I was just like
The the the disney remakes just asked me that
I was the one school player. I got hit in the face with a broom
And it came off the non-destruct that was shit
Sorry, yeah brought up some stuff
Hold on someone in the chat said that wings of redemption stated live that he thinks national socialism was a good idea
That if he did that just sounds like him desperately trying to like
Reinvigorate videos being made about him shout out sean wrinklin shout out sean wrinklin
Is the wings of redemption is like the ultimate capitalist?
Just wants to be also so the subtitle for this the the the the the the the
Sorry, the thumbnail for this video is called five objective things about subjectivism. That'll disprove objective
logicalness
I love that. It's joseph. This is joseph. Right? Yeah
Well
This is real
Lots of real lots of real
This is gonna be tricky
Oh
Dude I really love the drawings like they're actually pretty awesome. Yeah, they are really good
Is that george lucas yeah, okay
I don't know what to do here
Goodbye
I
Liked it. It was good. Yeah
Memes come in all shapes and sizes. I don't even remember half of what these even are
I've been collecting them for too long and i'm now scared who knows what's how long has it been since we last watched memes?
It's I feel like it's been a while
All right, this one's called infinite efap infinity arguments trailer. I think i'm gonna have to do a little bit of pausing
I found a video of oh the wings of redemption one post it and if you can't post the link then post the time
And and include the the youtuber the channel name. Oh, just tell him to send me on twitter. I'll be able to
Oh, okay. Just send it up to dozeitvitor
Uh, that'll be hilarious
Oh, yeah
So the picture with a lot of people who are like lined up in an army, uh the guy
At me on twitter saying uh, I just want to explain this picture
My friend laggy raptor made this and it's a lot of our friends who watch efap and i'm general grievous good stuff
My good man. Excellent
There's a whole group of friends that watch efap together
So the popcorn head the owl the raptor the hyena the snake and the batman
And this is going to be the episode that makes them all stop watching
All right. I have a feeling we'll get close like I like the second half when they talked about memes
But when they were talking about like serious things I hated it
Is this an ominous idea
Wait, wait, is this an in-game trailer? No, this is infinity world trailer. Oh, okay
To bring together a group of remarkable people
It failed so and a grape is
A weird olive right? No, it's not olives are not the same as grapes. I didn't say they were the same
I said that a great is like a weird ollie. Wait, I don't recognize
Wait, I don't recognize this but this is avenges honges
Like the first one. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I was back
But yeah, hey jay, is it bad that we could probably recognize any selection of three seconds from the mcu?
I think that's good. That's good
You can't no, it's not a weird. Oh
I like how it spins. A grape is absolutely a weird olive. Are you fucking high?
They need something stupid in order to band together
Untamed power
And beyond that
It's funny thing with like when you put overlays and stuff i'm like, does that protect it from copyrights like it needs to be
Bigger, I guess and it probably would it's like a threshold. I don't know. See what I'm saying
Oh
Fuck let's get this over with
Well, whatever I guess
I
Yes, the multi-million dollar cinematic feces. Hello all my n-words
Am I always a woman
I look at the chest the go slivers the chest
Don't you start with me it is true, of course through little tomatoes mola instead you describe them as
Jeez
Gray sheep little potato e-bag gameplay blevish no consistency. I suppose they would be the um
The the big the infinity stones of the memers
Yes, we're not even like this is like a third of the way through by the way
I'm excited. There's so many memes
This one i'm really looking forward to
But i'm not going to spoil it yet
So it's just amazed by it. Um
Yes, this is the next one. Oh my god
This is already really
Tomato
Just
What is the implication here the toxic brood is coming after totaled and wolf is deciding whether or not to save total
Well, I guess I I become the servant of tonaled for the next 25 years and then I
Kill him, but not really because he comes back in episode nine. It makes sense. Oh, yeah
No one's ever really
Oh god, you're all laughing at things that's not being seen on my end
What he is it frozen for you 25 seconds. I gotta I gotta draw it back. It didn't it didn't move from 15. So
Oh
Oh
Oh
Wait you you hold on hold on hold on you're behind us. No more. We're still far behind. I'm gonna drag it back to 20
Yeah, that should fix it
Okay, it's at 20 now
Doesn't have the full name anymore. It's just an artificial barrier
Stories
I
Want to watch play out in the game
See that he fucked up because he's reading his own work and he thinks it's incredibly fun to watch. Okay, so he reads that
Let's watch that in zero late in half speed again that needs a slow motion
Oh
I'm surprised they didn't go for morphing his face into uh something else one of the like angry faces
Or was going super saiyan
That was peak tonal
That was peak tonal the total superpower is the lack of grammar in his sentences
He left the line
Oh, no, what's that gonna happen?
Why is it
Because I saved total
And he's on auto now
He went to what
High level review
I
Love that
Image has me in the total profile picture
All right, i've been sent the um the wings redemption one, you know, i'm just gonna put that it'll be ready for once we post memes
sweet
All right, I
This this one again, there's just so many different kinds of memes and this one is just this one's called molar and friends exposed
And here is why explained
Being lying to us forever literally
I have no idea what with this song or the pictures or whatever. I have no idea what the copyright is
This is like a vigilant christian video
He fat flags
So er was the one that oh, here we go
Definitive proof
It's a speech hello all by inwards
And of course smaller is huge more
I was I was on set for the last
There we go
Oh
Do you guys know who that is?
No, yes, I know jay knows you guys aren't true fans. That is that is cj
Oh
He did a face reveal
And he found jay, why why don't you look so intimidated by the screen he was terrified when people made the comparison
He looks like ryan johnson
He does. I almost thought at first glance. I thought that's what he looked like
I I was like, why'd they cut out ryan johnson's head and put it on its head
Okay
What all right serious question here for editing purposes
Why not just put the faces on the picture that you're zooming into
Instead of adding the pictures in post and then trying to keep it up with the zoom. I see what you mean
Yeah, maybe maybe just to keep the style. Yeah, maybe just to have it
And maybe
Here get on
He made a great fall
Oh man
Oh my god
Oh, that's a great thumbnail
I mean like there's there's no telling what a meme will entail. There's so much creativity
Come to speak of which
You know, we put the request in only moments ago. We've already got a result
Oh, no
Oh, no
Is this gonna?
Oh, hold on
The idea that she's talking about it this seriously
She's the e-fap spokeswoman
Does she have a name
E-fap it is that I mean, you know saying these things puts a bit lore. I don't know you have a lot of power with this
I don't know chat
Um, all right
This one comes from e-man gameplay himself
E-fap girl
E-fap chan
E-fap it
I think I think people might want it. E-fap it was e it's the first initial
E-fap. Yeah, actually he thought
Let's go with that one
Medea
What are you guys looking at the chat oh, I got you medea that's the best one
There's medea
The poor woman is going to wake up tagged in me on e-flat
Yeah, please be nice to this lady if you decide to comment on a video
Please compliment her. He's nice person. She likes e-fap after all she's she likes e-fap
So this is where the uh that screenshot
This is where that screenshot came from
Um, this is this is e-man gameplay's new video. So i'm pretty sure this is gameplay by the way, so I can just let it play
I like it when I can do that
Man it's been a while since i've seen this trailer. Wait, what is the trailer? Is this an hey
No, this is mass effect three
really
This is like oh god
Oh, you actually will have to probably pause this because they do
Sog in this oh good lord from two steps from hell
It's a good song but yeah
There's a special place in our heart for like when I know
It always I know it takes a million years but having it so the masks actually like
Amassed on perfectly. It's just beautiful
If you haven't played
Right
That's glib don radcast deep red jenna these are all discord references your head fits way too well on shepherd's body
My opinion
Oh
Just right big
The back of the head too, oh we even use efap too on him we have to watch this again, I think
Jack kindly fuck you
I
Like I like how he did the line
Yeah, like the little line on efap. So it's like the mass feck logo. Yeah
Like that rex was a woman again. You have to give it a second go because I mean there were things
There was lots of things at the same time
Wolf's cat for some reason it'll never get tired to hear wolf say that shit. I don't know what
That's
You know what's funny because you say it
As a result of someone saying it in chat, which means you're laughing at it
And it makes it better for the quote because it sounds like you're losing your shit from saying it because I because yeah
I was laughing at it as I was
played
I didn't notice that either second watches. Oh, yeah
My opinion
It was all a bunch of
I think that's hello. Greedo as well
Probably. Yeah
Southpaw live greedo. Hello all my end works. It's nice and nice
Slice and dice slice
Impossible to watch movies wrong
I
Kindly fuck you
It's beautiful
Not gonna lie. It kind of makes me want to reinstall the mass effect trilogy because it's been a long time
I like all three though. Yeah, the third one is good. It's just like the ending. Yeah
That's all I ever hear about that
Yeah, I mean the extended the extended edition ending fixed a couple things
This one's like
Amazing in its own right for weird reasons
Um, I don't even know how to explain it. I don't know if I can even play of it
I don't know how much just copyright. I kind of just want to play it. It's already really weird. Yeah, this is the opening frame
This is like an efap opening in anime and that's a weird grape for pain to be wowed
Oh
I mean wolf called it earlier, right? Oh, wait, it's not out yet
But you do call that we're gonna get a thing for every fall back that ever exists
Yeah
Also known as moolah skull on wheels
I don't hate that game. Well you attacked it
Also the guy who argued with mauler and became friends with it
I hate
Rhino milkman
Massive kudos
Oh
Someone else these references
Oh, anyone got a nice little nod
They have a tally
Oh my goodness the lore
Oh
I
Can't believe that we have a fan base of people that will just willingly do this
They keep surprising us as well. It's like
Oh, I should mention because I saw it a couple times in the chat. I do have the elita
I didn't get it from amazon because amazon said oh, yeah
You ordered it in february. Well now you can get it in late june and I was like fuck it
I'll just bite the bullet and spend the extra 80 bucks and go to the store and buy it
And i'm three volumes in to the deluxe edition and I really really love it. It's actually like absurdly good
There we go, that's a thumb
Fringy mentioned to me that it's making you hate the movie mall. Is that true? Yes
Yes, I believe veto said that it was good as a movie from he's a big he's i'm pretty sure it's like his favorite
Because like the manga is so like I literally read the first three deluxe editions, which are like roughly 400 pages each
So we're talking like 1200 pages roughly
I read all of that in a day like it is
It's better than it has any right to be it's really really good
You and it makes me hate the movie more because the movie
Like I see what it could have been and I see what it should have been
And I look at the manga and i'm like, why did you have to take something so great and make it into something so mediocre?
And change so much shit
Ah, but I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. Everyone should read it. It's um, it's amazing
I didn't realize that is actually the end of the memes because the rest of my things i've got are actually different things that are
Assortment so funny and insane
um
Especially do do any of you guys know flash gets is
Yeah, I feel like i've heard of him the recent video came out and like I don't know why it turned up in my recommended
But I was like, what the fuck is this shit?
And then I was kind of creeped out and then I found myself laughing like crazy
so
In the interest of not becoming a crappy channel that just steals content
I can happily give a link to this guy's channel and say that you should support work like this because animators don't get a good
Fucking result on youtube these days as far as i'm aware
So I guess i'll put the channel link in the description
But um, this is still a weird as fuck animation, but I kind of think it's hilarious. Um, I wonder if
Do any of you know what I might be referring to or is this completely?
No, no, because uh fringy had seen it which I thought was funny
But then again fringy's like interested in animation stuff
This is the channel posting it in chat. Some of you will already know what i'm about to play and you'll know how weird it fucking is
But hilarious and i'm assuming copyright issues probably won't be a video here, but I guess i'll pause
Here well if no, I don't think so. I don't think it'll be
Um, so this is called fairy apocalypse. Oh, I know what you're talking about
People have told me to watch this but I haven't seen it yet. Oh, I don't want to watch it anymore
Oh dark wolf
Oh
Right here in furry forest
Dude there is nothing funnier than the fucking guy going
Okay now the video's great
Got
Jesus right into our big gay trap. No fell into our big gay trap
Brother
Someone in the chat said why does the fbi look?
Oh
No mercy
I love the ending credits nuking from orbit
So, yeah, like I clicked it not having any clue and when they start getting murdered I was like what the fuck
I'm surprised you made it past the
Fucking oh, yeah, I I was nearly like oh jesus and then I was like, oh wait, I think it's a parody
I think it's a parody
Oh, yeah, that shit's insane
Uh, if you want to see the channel again, I know it's weird, but fucking hell animators. I missed that time on youtube
Whether it was just new animations all the time that were hilarious
man, I showed a couple of my friends that I work with the um,
The psychic pebbles shorts we watched. What was it called? Um, oh the hellbenders
Yeah
And we just lost our minds watching it
Absolute hilarity is fucking amazing. It's incredible
So christmas one
Next up and don't worry. We still got more on the way with the uh, the wings thing
So you guys may or may not have heard about there's like a new star wars trailer
Uh episodes, uh nine. I think it is of like that weird franchise about lightsabers and stuff
Couple people recorded reactions
You know, like I think the efap guys did one it was okay. You guys should go check
Um, but then there were other people who did them and you know
There's this like sort of idea on youtube that maybe you should try and overplay it a bit
Because you can get some extra clicks, you know, that's so nice. This makes sense
Like j you'd agree with this, right? Like sometimes you just have to clickbait, right?
uh, yes, wow, you have no soul, but
There's a video that's going around shared with everybody and I already saw the opening minute. I was like, okay. We'll cover it
We'll have to see how this goes, but um, it's a man who is oh god
It's very in love with star wars
Actually, oh my god, you know what he reminds me of there because I might have to leave
I've got to go to a dinner in just a bit and I need to
Probably take a shower before I go
So I I think I might have to call it there and watch this afterwards
No
How long have you got rags even even a minute?
Uh, yeah
Is that the kid like he looks like the kid from we can do this one quick. Yeah, we can do it
Yeah, we can do it quick. Let's go. Let's let's go
Hey everybody, welcome to a very special trailer reaction and yes, i'm on vacation, but it's happened
We're here today to watch the first finally the first teaser on your star wars episodes
Racist that you'd even say that
He reminds me of like the kid from like the grim adventures of billy and mandy who had the giant sentient boil on his face
You can't say that
I also I just he embodies what's wrong with youtube reaction
Well his notice how his eyelids are really like reddish
Like he hasn't gotten enough sleep or something. This is what he lives for clearly
I actually think this is possibly genuine nine and I love that. It doesn't even tell me the title yet
It just came out like 23 minutes ago. I'm hot and sweaty. It is hot out here. It's beautiful
But it's not enough that I told everybody even mary knows she's actually up at the spot
A couple people are saying skip to 150. Um, all right
Is that he's talking? Is he just he doesn't start the trailer yet or i'm sure i'm gonna cry
Why would you even say that?
I'm sure he's gonna cry at a trailer
Silence you fool. I'm not the only one. I mean mr
Repcyon got a little bit of fame from crying on just on his trailer reaction
So maybe other people think that that's a good idea. Well, you know, matt jarbo got a little bit of fame from crying over his
Okay
But that wasn't exactly the kind of fame you want. All right fellas here we go here
I had my speakers muted because at work. I was doing sorry about that. I'm gonna turn this puppy up
There we go. And let's do this
Oh, shut up
The logo fucking hell
Oh
Stop it
He's vibrating
You haven't even seen anything yet. He's coming
I don't want to think about that. J. Oh, come on. This is so fake
Well, if you are aware that there's people who feel this way about these things, right
Oh my god, there's no one in the world who would act like this genuinely. Oh my god, you are naive
Okay, look
When I saw like the Ori and the blunt or the will the wisp trailer because you know
The first one's like my favorite game ever
I mean, yeah, I got like a little tug on the heartstrings by the tone of the trailer
But I didn't like sob for your normal person
You can't empathize trailer was like, oh, okay. He's like, what's she doing out there? That's what our question was
Our reaction is so polar opposite to this guy
Oh, come on
Look at his eyes they're going red as fuck. He's oh he's dying
This is actually kind of disturbing this is kind of sad I mean this is this is the brand this is
It doesn't matter what they do it does it? Oh my goodness. I really want to remove the uh, the actual clip of the trailer and remove
I mean this may sound a little just have him sitting in a room going
No, he's he's reacting to efap memes is what he's doing. Oh god
Someone make that video make that video
It's just a just a bioin art compilation
What are you from the actual trailer separately so it shouldn't be that hard to make a version of gorgeous it's rocks
It's rocks
Okay, I I I'm sorry, but
Maybe this will be like a little harsh
But this guy strikes me as like someone who is so
Emotionally and mentally unhinged that he might be like a potential school shooter
Wow. Well, I mean look at him. He's sobbing over three seconds of like a trailer
I've probably there's probably a lot of people who did that. Honestly
People are weird when it comes to stars they're weird, I mean this is disturbing it's honestly kind of like
I want to put him in like therapy
Yes
You can't catch me you can't catch me, you know, I I love that edit where it actually shoots the way yeah, I know
Oh
She jumped she jumped she used her legs to propel herself up. Oh my god, he's actually crying
How is this real
I'm so confused, you know someone someone in the chat said leave britney alone. This really reminds me of that
Like this dude, I mean, come on you look at this and you think this guy is like mentally capable of doing things
This is the sonic generations kid all grown up a response to me saying there's a lot of people who love the solace
This degree was a lot of people a school shoot
Well, you know that's not untrue
No one's ever really a school shooter
Oh
Oh this pullback give him the film let him let it he needs it before he dies
Oh god, how much do you think he's gonna oh no
I want to see his reaction to this. All right, of course
Yeah, we're pretty fucking we're trying to piece that one together too he's the number one bark
He's the one where jj was like, yes
The trailer was made
Every time how do they make this more and more epic every time I mean
Just this this the variation of the standoff in the desert the variation of the standoff in the desert what?
That standoff was so very
What's happening? This is very I honestly think this would be one of the most disturbing videos on the internet if
Man this video
This is messed up
I think he's gonna stand by this one. So high fire. I mean, that's the stuff of like legends, you know
Oh my god, like the swoop bike stuff. He wasn't hanging off. He was standing on top
Kylo was going to town against the emperor. Yeah, let's fuck up. Are they actually?
Oh my god
And wait, maybe they're gonna confirm that anakin was actually like it's you know, it's strongly hinted
Kind of confirmed that anakin skywalker is this prodigy of?
Of the emperor. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Anakin was darth vader
Yeah, that's the pro. Yeah, he's the prodigy of
Palpatine having made him through the forest
To make life
This is awful excuse you this is the stuff of legend
Every generation has a legend so good. He was wearing like the yellow from uh, from uh from uh,
Uh, the yellow tooth
From so hey, buddy. Where is the yellow from? Take take your pills. He was wearing
He was wearing yellow
Are you serious this dude was wearing
He needs to be on some like we gotta watch that again insane. Oh god again again, all right
Okay, how much do you think he's gonna break down now needs tissues? He needs tissues. That's my conclusion, man
And I love it's like the breathing like just from from from from
Thank you for speeding this up
She's nervous. She's panicked and she centers herself and gets ready for it. Just like this watching the trailer. All right
I'm eight years old again. Hello. I'm a drunkie
Um again, if you ever grew up to
Draw which is weird. All right. Okay, my hands are my hands are shaking. That's the diabetes
I'm kind of glad
That's the sugar in that mimosa skin too. Oh god
It's so beautiful and she looks like well
She's dressed like she was the little girl in the force vision from the force awakens. Well, that's really the only color
She's worn and like I thought she always wears that gray. She's worn that but beige and that but gray
Like and that as a little girl. Yeah
We've passed on all we know
A thousand generations living you know luke's voice luke's voice
Luke's voice that moon after it loads. Do you think he's never seen anything other star wars?
So he he genuinely i'm not sure that he's aware. There are there are other films. I don't know if he's aware of that
But this is your fight you're right
I have come to love these characters every bit as much as the og then why
Why you can't hate someone because like this is a thing. I didn't say this is a
Grow up. This is the perfect example of somebody who loves the brand
Regardless of what is actually in it. Oh, yeah, it doesn't matter. It has star wars on it. Therefore. I love it. No matter what
Why how why
The characters even the prequel trilogy characters that I do love
It's funny at double speed
Wait, what did he just spill all over he said I just spit all over my I think oh god
I actually kind of hate the trailers for being
Deliberately
fan theory generating now just for seeing it work if you know what I mean
Like for us for us. We were like, how does that slot in you'd have to do x y and z even whatever
But these guys are like, oh, how does that slot in you know, I mean, I guess they're just they're just invested like I know
They haven't they haven't had their souls crushed
It's the same way that I like I'm like, oh, how does that slot in when I watch an end game trailer?
Yeah
But I don't I don't moan
Oh my god, did he just say that
Wait, wait, you said he's gonna be reunited with l337. Oh, oh no
Oh, fuck you shut up. Oh my god that reminded me
What do you think it is
For the death star
The laugh is so much better when it's do you see that train of thought what is that the radar death from the death star?
Oh my god. Oh my god is that a door?
Oh my god
We leave for vacation tomorrow. This I mean it's a man. Imagine being in the cinema for this movie and sitting next to him
And he's like moaning every three imagine him sitting next to me actually masturbating next to you
Every other scene is like oh i've already gone 12 times but i have to keep going it's so sore. Uh,
yeah
Imagine how disappointed you'd be sitting next to me in the cinema though if I just kept being like
Well, that doesn't make sense. Oh shit. What the fuck? You just be like, why aren't you enjoying this?
I think you would genuinely get incredibly angry and try to
to kill me
You get out of the cinema right now
You don't understand
Vacation has been an epic start to this day and i'm about to go sweat my butt off for a couple hours doing all kinds of
Filming on the gimbals and stuff, but uh the gimbals
Be inspired i'm about to go literally shoot the beach with the gimbal and this couldn't be more of a more perfect inspiration to watch
Right before I do that. I'm gonna be out there crying
And then you'll tell them that you saw star wars trailer and then they're gonna be like, okay
Weird person the way he pictures it in his head as he goes. I saw the trailer and they go. I understand brother
Slice and dice brother. Yes, slice and dice
That's so awesome. I'm a bit of neighbors. You're over there. Of course be with you and i'll see with you
Hey, well, I really absolutely love that trailer. Um, I may end it now trying to get it up
I may wait I don't know because i've only got so long to be raised back but uh, you know
I go out and fill it be lucky you have a woman. Oh my god
That was so we don't know that that's confirmed. It's just speculation at this point, right?
So I just hope this video works out. Okay
And uh, yeah, I definitely like I said, you know, especially if you love it
In the chat said my man
Wolf was right shooting up the beach
So he's not exactly a school shooter he's a beach shooter this man would try to stab bowler with his toy light saber
Oh, yeah, well
It's you whack whack whack, you know, we'll make the you'll make the noises with his
Is
They're like staring at him confused
You're not dying. You must be a sith. I said you fall over bowler and i'm like, oh, you know me
I thought you were the right lightsaber. You died as the rules your gene
Yeah, you know because let's just let the people that love it. Let us love it
You don't have to hate all people liking something
You don't we should all like oh
Let the people who love it. Love it as if say making a video saying it sucks is not letting people love it
I
Can't believe that he actually I love this comment. I love this comment rags. He may have a woman, but that's twin beds behind him
Yeah, I think at this point he has a haddler slash kara
Is his
His lady friend, uh, his lady friend comes to him in the middle of the night
He's like hey there and he's like there's only room for me in the trailer in this bed. Go away
I think this efaps turning out to be simultaneously the best at worst
Oh my god people will be so confused. All right, i'm stoked for adventures, but no, this is way more my jam
Mm, I disagree
Okay. All right. All right. Well, there you guys go. Let me know I can't wait to hear your thoughts on this
Especially those of you that love it. Um, geek out with me in the comments
I look forward to hearing your thoughts. I guess I gotta go shoot stardust for this. Uh, so check out stardust
Look up the eric butts use the link in the description below and someone say stardust
Oh my god the eric butts that's the name of the channel apparently he looks like he looks like an eric butts
Yeah, I don't think we can deny that. Um
So I guess uh, you are you're going to go for your
Yeah, i'm gonna go i'm just saying my women we don't have twin beds though I gotta go and uh
Gotta go and do things gotta go save the dream gotta go save the dream
We'll i'll catch you all later. That was a great episode. I'm glad I stuck around. Yeah, that's good shit
Thanks for thanks for coming on guest here. It's number 32. Is it?
Uh, yeah, I think something like that. Yeah efap 32
I think you missed i'll catch y'all later. You missed one. So it's 31. I believe you gotta get the math right
Otherwise, you know the website says 34 appearances. Wait what?
Well, exactly like the minis. Oh shit, you're right. Yeah. Fuck. I forgot about those
That's like a that's like a free counter, you know, because it's like 10 minutes
If you just around you get to be counted as like a an entire slot
You know people are gonna get upset about that in the economy of efap, but I think that we just have to accept it
So, uh, is that jordan peterson in the background?
I
I don't know who that is
I don't know. That was the first thing I thought of it's probably not him
But it looked like that picture is new. So is that no that's what he's gamertag on his um chair
Why does he have a big picture of what he's gamertag? I don't know
What do you have that wings wings of redemption aka jordie jordan wants to try national socialism. Here we go
And you know national socialism in america
I would like to try it
Like what I was talking about with capitalism like for every rich man there has to be a poor man
And like somebody stated that you know, there's more rich people now than ever was before
There's also more poor people now than there ever were before not counting nazia some to subscribe to theories
Social darwinism identifying the german's because
Do you think he understands what national socialism is I feel like he's unaware I hope not
Like I hope he just thinks he's saying
Well, I don't know what would be funnier if he did know or if he didn't
Feel like he can't know
Suck to the bone and now the middle class is kind of I feel like he's smart enough to not be caught dead saying
We should try nazias
Whereas the middle class used to be the happy medium the cushion
Of society now they're getting taxed out of their ass and you'd have more people
That's not buying their house justifications for it. Um, I really don't like some races. Um,
I just think other races are better. I think that's fair. He's talking about he's talking about like
Uh socialism stuff people in the chat are saying wings of nazi-ism wings of holocaust
Becoming the working poor as well
I like he's trying to pass it out logically
I mean, why aren't we trying it? I don't know
Stronger richard are you a white nationalist?
At the top of this dude's head
You want to know
Do you want to know lay it on me? All right
Now the chat's the chat's full of okay i'm sad that rags wasn't here to enjoy this but
Jay needs to know
Doing the okay hand gesture is not okay blizzard was right to ban it and i'll explain why
What?
What dude we're about to get schooled on some shit blizzard
Over the weekend blizzard made headlines for reportedly banning fans from overwatch league events from making the okay hand gesture after one fan
Threw it up during an interview with l.a.
He got bad for that
What the fuck player decay and guess what blizzard was right
I know what you're thinking. It's just a harmless hand signs and yada doesn't I know what you're thinking
One of the characters of the games does it? Yeah, but you don't understand
Just in case you needed any more
Use to uninstall overwatch from your pc
Right in the game. The problem is is that it might seem but it's been co-opted by people with ties to white supremacist movements
It's been co-opted
They stole the okay side and I know some of you are already
Um jay, this was a 4chan joke to see if the left would take it seriously and they did
Yeah, it's like he's gonna lay that out in fairness. He does have it in the video. You're gonna see that
You can't call this the whole left. I mean that it's not a white supremacist symbol
It's out of nine. I'm just saying well remember wolf identifies as being on the left. So you're you're fine
I'm an idiot, but listen calm down
I was like you a week ago and then I did some research and found out what's really going on here a group of people
On 4chan decided to troll people by flooding twitter with claims that the hand gesture was actually a white power sign as part of something
They called operation. Okay. Okay
Operation okay
Now this wasn't true at the time and was just intended to mess with people the problem is like with all memes
It got completely out of control. What's fucked up. Is that actually yeah out of control like the ugandan knuckles
or pepe
Decided they like using the hand sign
It got so bad that the anti-defamation leak has stated that while the okay hand gesture isn't exactly a racist hand signal
It's not exactly exactly
Exactly
I I don't think were we live when I said
About jack. No, I don't think so
Okay
So well if just in case we weren't
Um, i'm still having a dialogue with jack and we're still being civil
um
But I I tend to use the okay hand symbol in a lot of conversations with all my friends
And I sent that to jack once and almost immediately after I was like does he think this is racist?
And it would be really funny if he did
I mean
He might be of that caliber of left, you know
Who knows for sure. I don't know
Anyone was gonna I I will say jack doesn't seem to be an sjw on all
All
At least from what i've taught what i've heard from him from our private conversations so he might not
Because he when we talked about the lord of the rings and the whole orcs being racist thing and he was like, no
That's stupid and I was like, oh you're reasonable on some things. That's nice
I don't know if I
Judging by that I think he would probably think the okay symbol is stupid and i've used it a few times
And he didn't seem to have any issue with it
It'd be funny. He was just a funny thought I had when uh
When I sent that to him you've you've already set yourself in a grave by you
I guess used by some way to premises now the adl also says that context is super important
Like if I said that's okay and then did this, you know that I mean that's okay, and i'm not being a racist
Do I know that? I'm not sure I do know that still be a dog whistle by their own logic
Oh
It depends I really I really don't like um
Dog whistle is applied to my videos people think I dog whistle to the alt right
I was like, I don't even like is there anything everything's a dog whistle at this point
Dog whistling is when you try to appeal to a group of people without actually saying never
Yeah, like uh, yeah, i've got that
like like like saying um
Captain marvel and dog with um dog whistling to sexists like if I said, um, uh
Captain marvel may have made money, but it all goes to them
And then some normal people are just like them disney. Okay, but then evil people would be like the jews
Oh my god, it's a dag whistle
Is when you try to hide the gesture
We've seen plenty of times in history that people who want to keep their beliefs and opinions hidden take up coded language
Or symbols to hide it from everyone. Oh god, and if you tell them what their symbols are
Implying that real white supremacists aren't proud of the fact that they're white supremacists
Yeah
Isn't well, you know that they've convinced themselves that they're going underground to recruit I guess business have a fucking ton of these
And it's looking like the okay handsome. It's looking like
But it's just
Look at that drawing white
That is so beyond stupid it's like, okay
Oh, man, I can't
Don't you love learning about the word you are you asked for the explanation, sir. Okay, I was simply providing
I didn't I didn't know it was gonna be like this
Your
If you're still doubting me that guy who killed 50 people at two mosques in new zealand last month
Flash the okay hand gesture during his arraignment. Wait, was this this was this is a recent video then?
Oh, yeah, this is very recent
That could just be the meme of like getting people to look at it as well
The top comments and stuff like did this man drink water because I guess we're all fucking dog whistling at that point
It's insanity it's a common hand gesture just like
It's also a common hand gesture
Well, I mean what's next right?
Will they take the thumbs up will they take that
That's the thing. They could take the thumbs up. Like if people if they decided you're not I think we should own the thumbs up
Do you think?
We should make that into a symbol of our beliefs
White supremacists started doing a thumbs up to show their white supremacists. There would be people who are like, oh, I guess we can't do thumbs up anymore
What if white supremacists like co-op?
um
Sign language
Like all of it all of it
And then anyone that's like mute
They're just gonna soon. They're just gonna co-opt having hands
But you're not allowed to have hands anymore everyone shop off your symbols you got a license for that hand of yours
No, sir everyone if you're white straight and male chop off your hands guys the only logical thing to do I don't know
And in court basically it's gotten pretty clear that this while it seems innocuous has been adopted as a white supremacist symbol
Even if people aren't necessarily aware of that even if people aren't aware of it
I'm pretty sure beyond the internet. Nobody is aware of it
I would love to actually approach
To approach my parents with this if I was like if you do that sign that means you're saying like white power they'd be like
I don't even remotely understand the connection. I'd be like that's because you're racist
Okay, that was a lot of facts
So let's recap really quick that okay hand gesture started as a meme
Wasn't really white supremacist then actual white supremacist. No, they didn't that's why that's how does how does one take over?
a hand symbol
If you let them if you let them take it over then they take it over
All right
That's really stupid and this isn't just like a thing that the left does right does it too?
Where it's like you hear words like triggered or problematic in context like in the correct context
Um, they're like you shouldn't use that word because it's been co-opted by the sjw's
Yeah, no, you you don't want to get like the last thing you want to do is sacrifice your language because some
Tard on the internet is using it in a stupid way
Don't give the extremists these things like our language is like the most important thing we have
So no matter what side of any conversation you're on never give up words and never give up hand gestures
Never give up mustaches even if you thought you could say hello, didn't you?
I bet you thought that was a safe word
Like you ever see anyone there's a truth behind hello
Have you ever seen someone outside of hitler using the hitler mustache after hitler was a thing?
He stole that mustache and people just are like you can't have that mustache anymore. Give me a few more years. It'll come back
Maybe
Also on twitter here's yini said wolf probably won't recognize me, but I was the guy who pointed out you referenced him in your tlj video
He's he's the one who's a part of the uh, the big meme of of all the people in the in the in the like medieval war thing
Apparently which one was it? Uh, the the twitter handle is is he is yini
Well, which one was the was he in the the war one because I don't have twitter anymore
Uh, his icon's like a dog a wolf a hyena. I think he's a hyena
Oh, okay
Um, yeah wolf got booted off twitter because he's a he's a massive
We all experience a massive tonally tonaledly
The background didn't do anything wrong if I was in like some horrible group like fucking white supremacist or whatever group that you know
Has that like sort of reputation of being terrible
I would just see what kind of fucking hand sign I could get away with stealing
Well, this is the thing right? The the point now is that like what else can they ruin?
Let's find out
What word would you try to take if you were like, what would it be funny to steal?
a
I don't know if this is original or not, but I got sent this on twitter and I thought it was amusing
But what what is it it's not showing up
Oh
That's even scarier than this video
It doesn't show anything for me. Can you click it click it? I did
Oh, it goes to a 404 error. It's on the stream. It's on the stream. It is on the stream. Okay
Oh my god
It's got to be an original one
We forgot the giant mole
Oh, well, well they look he looks it looks better that way
No, and actually he tweeted an apology afterwards when he learned that
I was the fan throwing up the okay
And I want to apologize for not knowing the context behind it the superfans been using it for the old garden
Apologize for this kind of shit
Don't ever apologize for this kind of shit. I had to apologize
saying
Okay, it's for doing an okay symbol
never apologize for
Never do that the context that it's taken on but people were mad that blizzard made the ban and I guess it's kind of understandable
I wouldn't I would be so fucking blown away if I was banned for that
I'd be like what why and then they're like you're promoting white supremacy. I would actually be like you're trolling me
There's no way that that's a real thing
No, it feels to them like they're losing their free speech, but I don't actually think because we are that is
Was he doing it because of the mean or like?
Oh, why if he's saying sorry and he was unaware of the context. I imagine he was literally just
Trying to say okay, you can't you can never apologize to these sjw types because then you're just giving them more ground
Don't let them take things from you
You were incorrect here and listen, I get it
It sucks seeing a thing you like get turned into something racist. You're gonna it's not no, you're literally letting that
Turned into something racist very odd
We're gonna want to fight about a fight back against it, but it's not about free speech
It's not it's not about free speech. It's about not letting people claim things
like
It's like you know, what's done the opposite of this the word queer used to be a gaze like a slur for a gay man
And then it was like reclaimed. Uh just by the lgbt
LGBT community and now it just means like someone who is not like, you know
Uh, there's only like gender queer as an actual label
Yeah, and like no queer is a word that can be used but like is not a slur anymore like and now
You will not get like you will not get you will not get like
You can just say the word queer and it's fine and nobody bats an eye to it because any and that used to be a slur
That was reclaimed and we're letting that happen in the reverse by letting people claim just common words as slurs
Yes
That is my substantive response
Thank you. It's about not wanting to be associated with racist ideologies. The fact of the matter is blizzard gets to say what goes in
Their studio. They are not spreading. Do you like the free speech? Yeah, i'm not saying they can't do that
There's a lot of things they can do that. I disapprove of
Bayouin actually made a good point how um, black people kind of reclaimed the n-word for themselves
We're still not allowed to use it there
Then share it. Yeah, they just kept it for themselves
Yeah, that is true. They they if a white guy says it you can't exactly
Say it. I guess it is stupid. Even if they were you can go a couple years
It really should just be like it's either all okay or none of it's okay
He just argued that at the very least we can just give up the okay sign for a couple of years calmly. No
That's so stupid
The thing is like can you imagine making this argument for anything else?
Yeah, we should just give up food for a couple more years because you know, some people in africa are starving
No, that's dumb
I'm not sure about that analogy
I understand why like um
I mean sure that that's that's not exactly an equivalent
I understand how it's got into the place where it's in where you can say it if you're black and where it's white and
I'm not annoyed about that. I just understand. It's not like someone made that as an active decision
It's like clearly that's just the way that things happen to evolve and that's fine
Like I don't have any deep desire to be yell at at the top of my lungs
I think my take on this is just uh, this is stupid and if it was like you cannot use that sign anymore
I'd be like, I mean
I'll get over that but it's so stupid
Yeah, so fucking stupid at least until all this blows over and racist
Seize the means of the history of film that they will lose and you'll get to do your dumb hand gesture again
Blizzard has done this before. I like how he's talking down to oh, it's just your dumb hand gesture
Yeah, I care about the hand gesture. I care about being care about being told not to do it
Like dude, i'm sorry that I have testicles and I like have
Respect for myself. I bet this guy has a twid bet
But
Really you're going to give up a hand gesture because some mean people on the internet used it once
Come on
I mean i'm thinking of a couple of hand gestures right now
Oh, wait, wait. Yeah, that's kind of funny. The middle finger would be less offensive than the okay sign now
That's how did that happen the middle finger is outraged at this it's like hey
Before they banned pepe memes from the overarching league a few months ago because it was an innocuous meme that took on a racist undertone
Is this is is this a joke he's serious he's serious
I want that like hitler pepe to just appear randomly in the back pepe promotes hitlerism
Okay, hitlerism is promoted by pepe tones and it's not okay to use anymore
Look, let's be real here. The okay hand gesture is a fucking white supremacist thing now
Don't be mad at blizzard for banning it. Okay. Hey buddy. I want you to know that when you give something up
You're submitting to the white premises
There you go
Do you want to submit to the white supremacy white supremacy by having so many okay signs in this video?
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know two premises for taking an innocent thing
Oh, yeah, that's probably a youtube video
We're telling you all this or whatever blizzard is even protecting some of their younger fans from falling down the slippery slope of racist
Slippery slope of racist he gets to talk about slippery slips, doesn't he the slippery slope of racist memes?
I like this is definitely i'm sure there's people who have actually like
Fucking seen all of this racist shit and there's like jokes and it was like falling into it
Differences don't ban it because some people are dumb
How sad you have to be as a human being for your principles that you became racist because of memes?
I like that people in that chat were like
Write that tell them you have to be sad as human being to become racist. So memes like just a good away as any
Uh, it's so stupid
Like no matter which side does this if you give up words or gestures because you think that the other side is mean
You're dumb
You're really weak willed
Don't give up something that fundamental to someone you don't like
Like if the word was literally a slur being used as like, you know
Like like the actual like words that you are using against people. Yeah, stop using those words, but this is not that
This is a word that's being claimed by someone else blizzard got it
Right don't be mad at them be mad at white supremacists for turning something innocent into something
No, i'm gonna be mad at you for allowing that to happen. I want to see this video's like to dislike ratio
Oh, what a surprise is it bad?
Oh 2.2.8 thumbs up
Right 40 40k down
Although his arguments are so sound
The very first comment is can we stop pretending that five people on the internet can decide what his universally known hand gesture means?
What a universe?
Look literally it is racist. He's probably making the nazis ate food argument
Does he really please stop breathing because hitless style it and bow breathed as well?
Oh
Bad people eat food. Sometimes we're gonna go to hug a strike now. No
Yeah, the video chat is called why the okay hand sign is not okay and lizard got it right by the score
e-sports
Pepe was associated with racist memes. So is the okay hand gesture. I don't want to see racism anywhere in e-sports
I don't think you do either. I
Don't want to see for watching. How dare you tell me what I do. I do not want
Maybe not that I want you in the first place, but maybe we need some okay signs, you know, maybe that's that's what we need to
revolutionize
Everything don't worry chat. You didn't miss anything. It was just him standing there. He didn't he didn't do anything
I
Didn't I didn't pull
Yeah that
I suppose that leads us now right into the uh, i'm going to read the super chats because i've
Allowed them to collect and I have a feeling we're going to get a lot of arrival ones. So
It'll be interesting to have that open up again
probably
Uh, so yes, here we go
50 bucks because I can
very much
All of you should come come to philly on august 31st for tim pool
Uh wolf can i'm me and jay too far away philadelphia. I assume
For what for for what impo is that the cream cheese?
No, tim pool's a youtuber
Philadelphia the cream cheese. No, this you know, I tried listening to tim pool. It's not that I really disagree
Anything he said because I haven't seen more than like two videos of him. I just don't like his voice
I don't know something about his videos rags wants to get him on efap. So I I wouldn't I wouldn't mind having him on efap
I don't have anything against him. It's just like one of the witch. We're not allowed to offend anyone who's been on here previously
I offend rags every day. I went to the channel and the first thing I saw was fortune made clowns racist
I think part of it is I just don't really like to watch a whole lot of political channels in general anymore
I used to be really it but
yeah
All hail the film review channels that have dog whistles in them. They're the best
I'll watch any political channel that isn't only going after the stupidest people on one side
But you subscribe to h pome a guy
Yeah, but he makes video game stuff as well
When was the last?
video
One the last one was about transformers and I thought that was
Interesting. I liked it
Wait, which one?
It's probably a video on the transformers movie explaining how as he's grown older. He's changed his interpretation of it
He has like this random comment where he's like
You try and apply it to some kind of standard as to whether or not it's good
It'll be like it'll ruin what you can interpret from it or something
It just it just keeps reminding us of how much influence we apparently had into telling
A lot of people on youtube that there's such a thing as objective criticism. We pissed off all of the peoples
You know, what's funny is uh transformers, um, I think it's age of extinction. That's the fourth one
It's the one video from cinema sins that I actually like
Really?
Yeah, because uh, well actually it's a two-part
He really hated that movie and so did I and he ripped it to shreds
I mean he did nitpick a lot but there were a lot where it was like, yeah, I completely agree with this
That movie was awful
Yeah, he was absolutely right. There's nothing good about
How dare you yeah, I I would still be curious to see if you put in like the the legwork
I I mean, I I mean I will say that it's been like a few years since i've seen this video
But I remember at the time being like well, I actually liked uh, cinema sins video. That's uh
That's something. Yeah, we we got like an awesome piece of art from fucking twitter, but rags isn't here
Okay
That's amazing
We it was both there for this rags basically explained all the things steam has that epic does
I don't think I was here for that
I will make sure rags sees this both
On his own and on the beginning of the next defap. Hopefully if I remember he's replied to it
I I love how one says steam has what is that?
Wild servers epic does not it's just epic does not for all of me and they changed the apostrophe
It's beautiful and uh, we also have this as well
That's an old one is it I got sent here recently I remember this one. Oh, no this was
This was sent to me on twitter like a year and a half
Oh
Well, then apparently oh wait, it did come with a message i've changed a bit too, but uh
No, I am the guy who made this for him and hootie. Okay, I guess it is an old
Um, but yes anyway back to answering potential questiones
Hello all of my toxic brood n-word division, that's that's from james moore beautiful
Mole is a scalpel wolf is a hammer jay is a nail
Watched a rival two nights ago for this stream hashtag team wolf
well
Wonder I wonder what the conclusion was if up with breakfasts and I got my state tax returns
Today's like a weird holiday. Can't wait to put some fists first order milk in my coffee. Love you guys
It is kind of like a holiday to get your tax returns back. It is nice
Madea nado three. Oh, hell no
I'll watch it
Did you guys see the googly gareth episode 9 animation? I have no idea what that is
I don't know
Have you guys heard of the movie i'm just fucking with you I do not know what
And if I don't know wolf will be less likely to even know and then I mean jay. Do you know?
Yes, I've seen it five times
99 is that is that true? Is that being honest? I'm just fucking with you
99 of the resistance died so i'd go first order
Uh, yeah, but you'd be voting for fascism. So
That's what I was going to say at the beginning was like I would probably pick first order because I don't think
I want to survive lucky enough to stay alive
Uh as someone on the spectrum I gift you all an a word
Uh autism and our word retard and variance pass. Well, there you go
Collecting all the passes
Would you rather be a part of the massive military galaxy spanning military organization or one of the 15 people left on the falcon?
Hmm
Yeah, but you support fascism. You can't do that
Jesus guys i'm so disappointed
What if you get cookies with the fascist side? Oh shit. I didn't know well
Yeah, obviously if that's the case you vote for them. That's not even
Poor ru ru ru ru ru. Hello boss. It's doppio. You there?
Uh, what's that reference
I have no idea feel like I find myself saying that too much
Wolf only hates arrival because it has a strong female protagonist. Well, that was proven. That was proven
Yeah, yeah, that was proven. Yeah, you proved me
There you go views in 24 hours tfa 112 million tlj
220 million episode 9 16 million. Oh dear
16 million that doesn't seem right if that's true. Holy shit. That's like a 10 percent
Oof
Is there true find it?
Watching ray is like watching my here I go killing again scene but for four hours and played straight. That is a rick and morty reference
I hope respawn star wars game is good or amazing
So I can uppercut episode nine and it's like tf u in gameplay thoughts on games trailer
I think it looks like it could be cool
It's true. It's only 20 million views
Well, you know, you have to prove that the other things are true, I guess in fairness
Views on a video doesn't necessarily mean
I'd be more interested to see what the sales are. Yes, but that is an interesting factoid
Sure, I I I'm positive people care less
I'm positive that after the past couple movies, it's not gonna make as much money back. Honestly
I know it sounds like it's less interesting
But I actually find it more interesting the like to dislike ratio on the on the like official teaser trailer
Like that is not a ratio. You should be seeing on a new star wars movie. What is it?
It's like it's like it's it's it's not particularly bad
But the fact is it's not good if you let me pick to my meaning
Let me look it up
I actually have to go to the trending page. Well force awakens teaser only has 24 million views now
And I swear that had more views when it came out. Oh, wow. Yeah for I mean, it's still overwhelmingly light but 465 to 58k
that's
Yeah, there's a chunk of dislikes and it's like whoa, and if you look at the comments
This is the part that I find interesting. Okay, so i'm watching bots i'm on the
I'm on this like almost entirely. Uh, it's like almost entirely prequel memes and
Meming about the trailers quote
The top one i'm seeing is I did not expect that title though. Haha and the emperor's back loll
It's that that that's such a I love the quote comment because it's like the official star wars page or walt disney
I'm on walt disney studio motion pictures ireland. It was the first result
I'm i'm on the star wars one. I just looked it up on the trending page
It's uh, the first comment is can't wait to see palps. Tell ray the tragedy of darth. Plagueis the wise
Oh is is the official challenge of star wars?
Yeah, okay
Yeah, there's a chunk of the jedi fallen order trailer is a step up above the
Uh, the uh, fuck it's number one on trend trending. Whereas rise of skywalkers number two
What is that?
That's the new star wars game. Oh, I haven't seen that
I'm gonna watch that after this it. I mean, it's just a cgi trailer. You don't see anything really
Oh, yeah, it's just a bunch of cutscenes. So
I mean
it's made by respawn
Cautiously optimistic but i'm
I don't know. I just don't care much about star wars. We just gotta wait guy
He even if even if the game is good
I probably won't even be too inclined to buy it just because it's like I
I don't care about star wars anymore. It's killed my
Care for it. Is this what era is this set in anyway?
It's set between three and four
Uh
Woke twitter the first order is evil, but not they're also nazis also reylo for life
See that is a contradiction
So they encourage sexual relations and they think they're evil nazis. Can you explain that j?
He's conflicted
That is kind of funny actually
Internet blood sports now. Yo, I give this efap seven rags milk out of formadea milk
Okay
Wolf, I watched the
I watched half of the first lord of rings a couple years ago got bored and turned it off on a scale
Of j to hitler. How bad am I?
Wait j to hit oh
Um
Well, actually j is a step above you because he actually watched the first one in completion
So I guess uh hitler
Yeah
Um
Uh my sweet kawaii
Dopio don't forget. I gave you some of my
King crimson's power get within two meters of risotto and I will finish him
Okay, I don't know what to do with that
Some of them some of the super chats are like amusing in how little sense they make
Play risk of rain two fring frogald is playing it. Well, i'll he'll i'll see what he says
Didn't rags make a review for that game?
I like they said fring and then stopped yourself to say frogald. I mean, I didn't want to miss gender. I'm jesus
What is that? I haven't heard of it
Risk of rain you said
Yes
Of rain two rags keep the reviews coming echo was a blissful surprise and the rest have been my favorite games
Would love to see your take on kenshi
Uh rags keep the reviews coming. Okay, buddy
That's an interesting looking little game
Someone could just bark I could simulate that he's here
I wonder if that's co-op because that could actually be like a solid god damn it. Um
efap games
Let me know perhaps is it uh, is it multiplayer?
I'm looking up on steam. I don't know yet
I shall see
How do you guys think palpatine will be ruined in episode nine? Oh, yeah, it's a online multiplayer and co-op
I'm pretty sure he won't be ruined because this is the thing
Palpatine's arc was never completed, you know, he never got revenge on anakin anakin
What do you what do you guys I think that he's going to come back he's a skywalker maybe
Wait, what palpatine is a skywalker palpatine is skywalker and he's rising
I think that makes the most sense and would be most consistent within the the lore and the
uh
the the
Battery is going to be a palpatine, isn't she?
That's that's something jj would do, right? No, but she's a the his parents died in a ditch after selling her for drinking money
I know
Hello wouldn't lie
Look at the trailer. He's literally already undone two things from the
I just like the idea that she's like you lied about my parents and you and then discussed him. He goes. Yes, I did
So I was like, oh I guess he did it's fixed um, it's
They fixed the lightsaber, which isn't a dream sequence
Uh, I I know that somewhat I can't well
Did you say that was a dream sequence that like or maybe maybe it's a dream sequence when she has I don't want to make
Conclusions on anything in the trailer because it could all just be bullshit
It's the same fucking endgame trailers. Honestly
They're like we gotta put cgi in there. We got things that don't make any sense. We got things that don't confirm
They fixed the lightsaber which was destroyed in tlj. They fixed
helmet destroyed in tlj
Maybe they're gonna just be like hey, no raised parents to someone else. Oh, by the way also that didn't happen
Literally the opening siege she's like I always wanted to know my parents and and then layer cgi
You just see the back of layer and then a really bad impersonation says
How do you know that he was telling you the truth and then it zooms into her face and it cuts to kylo reading a book?
That is no ironing his clothes
The laugh in the trailer was actually creamy sheave that makes sense
Makes sense. Just wanted to show my appreciation for refab. Thank you. Jonathan trough
Oh my god. Do you think they'll actually like address him as sheave in the movie? I hope I hope so
That would actually be kind of hilarious
Just like he's there laughing at him. He's like, oh, shut up
Can you imagine if like he threw someone down like a well or something and he just screamed?
I can't know
I hope that happens humanity first deaths of the robots and the xenos agreed looking forward to watching this one
I'm this once i'm free. I hope it was everything you imagined
Agree with wolf on color grading. No joke. I turned in the theater thinking is there dust on the lens?
So five minutes of flashbacks could be in bright colors
Uh, what do we do anything on the color grading? Okay, I like how it looks
But I don't know anything about color grading to argue it so it was like it was made in that time, you know
like movies like
um
Batman v serpent alien covenant the movies that have those really bad dark filters
It was like between 2014 and like early mid 2017 where they just used that filter on every movie for way too
I wouldn't say it looked like that
It looked different because I don't like that look and I like this look so I mean great
I will say that arrival wasn't as bad as some of the other ones
um
Like alien alien covenant is probably like the most egregious of the world
But it did have that and it I just hate that look
Like if I am struggling to see what's on the screen because of the filter or the color grading depends on
Uh how it's done from film to film. I just hate it. Yeah
I uh, i'd have to give it a good look again. I I remember kind of thinking that the film was pretty pretty
It was pretty pretty
Pretty pretty
I couldn't get nothing is covenant any good
We still plan patrick williams got a video like positive about that. We have to cover that sub
Wait, really? Please let me in that one. That has been a requested thing to cover since like
Have you seen have you seen covenant?
Yeah, I have and you do we need to have a debate on this too?
No, thank god
Unless you love it. No
No
If anything my review of it
Um, I don't even know if the review is still up
But I made a review of it when it came out and I was more positive to it
Than I really should have been I mean I still hated it, but I gave more credit
To find that my conclusion was that it was worse than prometheus, but i'd have to rewatch both of them to know
It's past midnight. So I have to be a bit quieter now. It's all right jay. We won't ask that you shout
A week ago the witcher three went on sale and I finally bought it
Been a long time since i've gotten so invested in a game that i've lost track of time. I was from chris hansen
He's exploring games well, you know what we never mentioned what halo reach
Okay
At the end, okay, that's the crescendo
Mola has been exposed as a time spider during the star wars reveal trailer. He mentions the emperor at the end of
At near the start of the trailer. Okay, so I'd I'd say in the video i'd already seen the trailer when I was
Pretending to be a stupid speculatory person. I was just like, oh my god
What could be in the background and I picked a random thing in my head and I was like emperor
A lot of people are like, oh mola doesn't realize that he's actually right about that
I was like, oh no, i'd see the trailer at that point because I was like enjoying watching wolf's heart get destroyed again
Thanks, thanks buddy
I meant that was one of my that was supposed to be my inside voice. Fuck
I thought you said that you you hadn't seen the trailer yet. No, i'd seen it
I I told you guys you and rags that I didn't want you to watch it because it's gonna be great for you
Wow
Okay
um
Yeah
If you remember me and like my initial reaction to that death star
I was I was just I think how fringy was there
I was just like oh for fuck's sake and so me and him were like baiting you on that moment
We were like you haven't picked it up quite yet. Have you have you?
Once I noticed it was the death star like what?
Death star and then I like put two and two together in my head and I
No
You couldn't possible because like I I was trying to think of like
I mean grandmauf tarkin who what's he gonna do? I'm not gonna bring him back. Yes
They like like I was just my brain was like slowly coming to grips with the fact that there's only one possible reason
They would ever go in search of the death star
And then it hit me and it hit me like a train
For the kyber crystals. Yes. Oh, yeah, i'm sure
Is that what they made the lightsaber crystals out of or is that something else that's the same thing
Gotta gotta write a thesis paper on any movies max 2 any suggestion
Arrival
Arrival you could get a lot of out of arrival though or halo reach
That's not a movie though. It's the same thing. Yes, it is. Okay. Oh, it's an interactive movie fine still movie
Oh
Just raises so many questions bruce way the hungarian language has a genderless pronouns
I didn't read that wrong. By the way, that's how it says it. All right, really?
Hungarian language has a genderless pronouns. What are they going for a gender? I mean we technically do they
I assume they mean is like the main pronouns, right?
I
Would guess look, I don't I don't know. Why could you ask me this question?
I mean if if it's different than they in it then that's what are you doing? Hungarian?
or hungary
Hungarian
Hungarian hungary just sounds
Too close to hungary for me to think that it's like an actual name
Hungarian that's your new name. You know what hungarian for wooden spoon is
I don't know anything about hungaria
It's it's uh hungarian wooden spoon is fucking hell
Okay, fucking hell potentially
Someone's gonna correct me in chat, aren't they?
Yeah, that's just gonna be
Southern hungary
Jojo part five plot is that the antagonist can always see 10 seconds into the future and is infallible because of that
The aliens can see 3k years forward sad face
It is I think we understand now that it's not quite that it's confusing
If the aliens gave amy adams the capacity to experience time all at once
Then how does she not know their language the first time she meets them?
Because she doesn't have it yet. Yeah, it's the the weird continuity thing
It answers everything they're setting up a butterfly effect phenomenon. Um
I don't
Think so in butterfly effect the movie gets to keep changing the future by going into the past and making decisions
The term butterfly effect has a term for a thing
Not like the film. No, i'm talking about the film. What's what's the term because i'm not familiar with it
Oh the butterfly flag refers to
The wings of a butterfly could flap and that bit of air could eventually through looking at a sort of
A series of kind of legs turned into a big tornado
Oh, so like the idea is that every small change you make may have huge consequences
Like okay, you go back in time you step on a bug and you go back forward and everything's different
Yeah, like literally you you post mail on the following week instead of the previous and hitler wins the war
Okay, crazy stuff
Maybe they saw us attacking them in the future
What does that mean they want to
Well, no, they didn't because it's deterministic in this universe or anything
I'm pretty sure they say they pretty i'm pretty sure they say like explicitly like we're gonna need your help
What does help mean
I think I think they're going from we saw them attacking us. So we'll contact them
You're going to attack us. We need you to complete this you're like what?
well, I guess you know making making allies of
Maybe it's like the the squids are like space jews with like a victim complex or not a victim complex
Like I want to actually be gassed on ironically complex. I don't know if that's the name for that complex, but yes
Yeah, I love to hear all of your toxic opinions on the game of thrones premiere. I hope they need us being gassed
I'm cautiously optimistic
So what's going to happen with game of thrones probably is that every time we have an efap episode me and wolf are just going
To spend the opening talking about how much we hate the the episode
Or like hopefully like hopefully like
Hopefully like that's yes
Okay, please say welcome to the cub zone as sexually cool and dramatic as possible. Oh god. Um
No
Well, i'm sorry samael
We're getting touch
Get in touch privately
Wibbly wobbly timey-wimey wolf. Have you read the metro novels? If so, what is your opinion on their story direction?
I personally dislike where mr. Gluchowski took the franchise after metro 2033
I will say
um
If we're counting novels and games metro 2034 the second one
The second book is like by far and away the weakest of the whole series if we're counting games as well
Um, but I really loved 2035
2034 wasn't bad. I mean it was
Well written just not anywhere near as compelling as the first book
It's more just a side story going off of like one character that didn't really matter. It was interesting but
It's not like a great book by any stretch
2035 is good though. I love it. Um, i'm assuming this is only a question that you can answer off. Uh,
You find yourself in possession of a seal door's bane if there were no drawbacks to its use. What would you do with it?
And why?
The seal door's bane. Oh there's in the sword
I don't know. I don't recognize what what what's the full question again? If there's no drawbacks to its use
What would you do with it and why?
Or no the ring that's not
No, the sword's something different the ring. Yeah
If there was no drawbacks to using it
Wait, it's your little bane refers to the ring. Yeah, because that was a thing that corrupted a seal door
Okay
um
Huh, I mean it really only does evil things
I was finding funny when he's like
Shouting at a seal door throw the ring away and then he's like no and walks away. It's like all around push him
Push him. He's like, I can't do that. It's me
Um, hmm, I don't know because I mean aside from like the invisibility thing which
Yeah, what exactly is good about the ring's abilities beyond that?
Nothing nothing really everything else is really evil
Um
I don't I don't know what I could I don't even know what I could feasibly do with turning invisible
I guess it would make me less on I mean
I'm really socially
Anxious, so like i'll go to like movies and i'll
If i'm alone i'll just be like I kind of wish I could turn invisible because I don't want people to
Even though nobody's looking at me
I'll feel like people are looking at me
What if someone sits on your seat because they think you're not there? Well, i'll do it after the movie starts people can come in late
Also, if you do that and some guy behind you is like what the fuck
You just go
Well, I like to be in like the back row so it's fine
Uh wolf great job on the parody top 10 video about the last
See every time i'm about to read it i'm like, no, it should be skylawaker. You've got it wrong skylawaker
Very funny. Although I do think you need to say the n-word. You didn't need to say the n-word so much. Yeah
All right, okay
Dev adventure future already happened the past is yet to come and that is occurring right now
But that works more as a vertical point than line or loop
What yeah dev advert, what does that stand for dev
I
dv
adv
dev ad
developer advantage devade
If even is it is all together or no it's a capital d and a capital a so it seems to be split into
dev and then adv
Future already happened the past is yet to come and that is occurring right now
But that works more as a vertical point than a loophole line. How does the future help quote?
Uh, you know what I like it
I
Mean I don't even it may make sense, but I like it for i'm taking it mine now
We're going in just claim things next gedel. I mean
Apparently, okay symbols are pretty easy to claim. So surely sentences are just another step up
If you see a vision of you with cancer that doesn't give you the power to not get cancer
Knowing something's going to happen doesn't let you stop it
Um, it depends if it's a if it's a decision you may I was going to say in that scenario that might be true
if she just didn't you like didn't have a baby that
Could prevent it so if you go if you go like if you see yourself going if you see
Or at the like
I don't mind if she had the kids the the issue I had is the way that she
Manipulated jeremy renner and didn't tell him
Like that's the problem I have with it. I don't care if she has the kid because like you could make an argument
Yeah, I mean if I knew
Like if I looked into the future and I was like, oh i'm going to have a kid
But she's going to die horribly in pain and of cancer young then i'd be like maybe i'll just adopt instead
But that would just be me
but I mean if that's
You can make an argument. Otherwise, that's not the issue. I had it was the way
That she was manipulating jeremy renner and the movie
Tried to play it off as though that was like a nice thing when it's really not
I think it needs like a whole other movie of her making
I think you could make a really interesting movie of more and more people becoming disassociated with linearity of time
And how that affects society?
That could be an interesting concept. Yeah a rifle two and three
I feel like you probably have to spend a long time writing that out and redraft
That's the thing it's like with something like this
Find the rules
And a lot of a lot of time travel or seeing into the future kind of stories
They don't really define the rules for it and that raises so many questions
Yeah, terminator one and two have well enough to find rules, but then it goes out
Well, even even then terminator two gets kind of fucky. I mean it is a good movie
Don't give me both of them rely on us having to accept
That they did what they did which is kind of bullshit
Because tim and it once fucked already
The idea is that the machine sent someone back in desperation and the humans followed up with it because they took over
It's like why would the humans stop at one dude?
Why would the humans even it's this too many questions immediately and you're like, oh, that's just how that's what they did
Okay, that's what they decided to do. It made sense at the time. I'm just like
Yeah, I mean terminators
Time travel and this is the thing terminator one has the most
Consistent type lied that was I already have a problem with it
But two's worse three's even worse four's even worse and five is it is so
difficult to do time travel correctly
which is why I just usually stay away from it because
Very few people know how to do it. Well, there's another thing man. Just get between settings. I'm saying we're getting an endgame
It's gonna make me sad
But they could do it well, oh gosh could they though jay could they
Could jay they though they're gonna have to just they're gonna really have to justify the shit out of the doctor strange
Like there is only one way out of a million
So I don't know how they can justify that he could I don't know how pizza out
I don't know why they're gonna have to just why or he just kind of portal like his hand away
Could have done many if it could be like hey tony
Just fucking slap him on the back of the head or portal his head away
Just kill him
I mean fuck they still kind of have to explain why he couldn't just portal thanos's arm off like why not?
Yeah, that that was what I mean like portal thanos's head off
And it wouldn't have been such a problem if they hadn't established it in the first ted but it's the movie
Oh, yeah, I don't think they're gonna be able to fix that
Have you guys seen the movie star crash if not, you should give it a shot. It's hilariously awesome
Also, efap is great and we need more
I think i've heard of it, but I haven't seen it. I have no idea what it is
Um one out of 14 million six hundred and seven. Okay, that's a lot. That's a lot of
Wolf will be busy next sunday
I believe but we will be releasing something that me him and rags are very happy with
That's efap related but not live
It's this whole new thing and we're pretty sure people will enjoy it on a level of between three and four out of ten
Which is that's more than zero
science 3.5
That's more than fucking arrival
true
Both charles two and ruka rucks alley beat the fuck out. Sam harris
I recommend them for good takes by the way. Love you molar and wolf. Please say salty night is a libtard
Wait, what please say salty night is a libtard who's salty night. I think he's a libtard
Uh salty night is a libtard. I guess how could you say that? You don't even know him?
I I know I like the whole time. I was like, what is not?
I don't know anything about him
You're a badman
M all the portals always had to appear in places without obstructions i.e. strange would have to trick thanos into he was
Unconscious all they need to do is open a portal and have them wibbly wobble his arm into it
You see in thor ragnarok dr. Strange can shoot his portals and move them. You can move the portals. Yeah
Yeah, he he that's how he gets loki out of his room. He like look. I love the mcu
But we have to take the l on that one
It's done. It's we can't win it. It's done
And you could be like what you needed to happen
I guess is in the middle of the fight scene he tries to wrap a portal around his arm and close it and it just
Gets stuck and you see like a little I don't know film of like pitbull aura
And it's just implied that the the power stone prevents the portals from cutting off his limbs
He put this show in punching through the mirror dimension
Yeah, which is awesome and it answers that question, doesn't it?
Absolutely fucking cool. And we don't have to go. Why did he just put him in the mirror dimension?
And I don't know why they didn't think of the portal thing because they did it earlier in the fit
JJ shag mary kill wolf rags amor
This guy has asked me this question like on every stream i've done
I have answered him. Yeah, what was the answer j? It was like convoluted
Um, I think who was the kill one j?
Obviously, it's who it was rags. He's not here. Who was the merry one j?
I believe I believe I married maula, but that means oh no
So so you would only shag me he wouldn't even take me out to dinner or anything
I think I see how it is
I didn't say I wouldn't take you out to dinner you you assume that just because I do one thing I can't do
That's well you didn't say you would so obviously
Well
Now I won't it's okay j. Just remember that no matter what i've said today no matter how
Irritable I may have become nothing and I mean nothing will ever make me hate you more than I already do
I can take that
Good so the answer to the question is that I win is that was the other
Okay, good sure
Uh, hey maula. Have you thought about making an in-depth critique on the last jedi?
I'd probably clock in it'd probably clock in about four hours, but I feel like it'd be good
Not really. I don't really see why anyone would want to talk about that movie
It's kind of like you guys even remember it
The last jedi space was intended for children, isn't it? That's what I heard
What did you guys know anything that I don't know? I thought it was a cinematic masterpiece. It was really, you know deep
Themes you've been wrong like several times. I think you mean cinematic
masterpiece
Cine piece cine world that's a place where you can buy movie tickets in cine world sounds like like a cine bond convention
You know, that's what a racist would say. So my local
I assume boogie's been hanging out there a lot
Hey maula, i've seen that you've played the moba smite before when did you last play it?
Who's your favorite god in that game? Mine's ghanesh. Uh mine was zeus because I used to get
Fucking a million kills glass cannons. Well, I used to play in mobas a lot
But I haven't played it now for what feels like four plus months i'm afraid
I I lost interest as as things do as do is the things
If all things are predetermined, can we be held accountable for our actions?
Can we
P justly punished can we be justly punished if we are not in control of our actions? Yes
Yes, right. Yes
Because while it was still predetermined that you made that action
The person who made it like it's predetermined because that's the decision you would make
And the fact that there's only one possible outcome of you making that decision doesn't mean you didn't make the decision
But if it was predetermined by an outside force and it was never going to change no matter what you did
Then how is that your yeah, if it's predetermined by an outside force, then yeah
It's well, well what else predetermined by your brain
Thing that your brain would do in that situation
Then it is you reacting to the situation in the way that you would react to the situation
I don't think that would be pre-deterministic if it's your brain saying I want to do this
What if the but your point was a difference in a certain way?
and there's only like
There's only sort of like one thing that your brain is going to do and to the information that it gets
There's some big thong
This is how this is how free will come and just check more announcements on the discord, you know, you could like hit a reaction
And you can choose like a thing like, you know, you could use the okay sign for example
You can choose letters and on the discord people just chose gay and it's at 19 votes just gay
and then alien gay alien
All right, then wolf in light of arrivals director making the new dune movie thoughts on the timey wimey stuff in that book
Wait, i'm sorry, I was looking at something else. What was it again?
This is why i'm gonna fire him jay
Wolf in light of arrivals director making the new dune movie thoughts on the timey wimey stuff in that book
In that book you mean like the dune book is the timey wimey stuff in dune
uh
I'll admit. I haven't read dune since my freshman year. So it's been quite a while
Uh, I don't remember there being time stuff in there unless we're talking about his mother
But I barely remember what jessica did in that. It's I really want to read that again
Uh, I don't I don't know. I don't really remember
Time travel or seeing into the future
No, no, there was like some stuff with jessica. I don't remember. I want to read the I got to read the book again
It's been a while
Right. All I remember is that I tried reading the sequels and I was like, I don't like these
First book's good though. I really like the first book
um
Doesn't apply when there is no future or past
I'm assuming that that's just the overall commentary about this how the how it's how it works in uh
In arrival there is no technically no future and path everything's just happening
Yeah
Terminator is not a pre-determinate things change in the timeline constantly the hand being left behind leads to the creation of the t-1000
Yeah, I thought that's how it always happened though. Oh see that's the thing though
All big I don't
It's too hard and also makes no sense if amy adams new spider-man would die
Why was she sad at the end of bvs then? Yeah, explain that
Hmm
Here and what?
Look, amy adams character was in the superman. I was a bit slow on that one. I was a bit slow on the uptake there but uh
That was before all of that happened and also I wouldn't see she was pre-determined to be sad about him being dead
But still alive eventually
Uh
This debate is making me rethink my decision about making a video about explaining time travel to show why looper is one of the worst
movies ever made
I I wouldn't go as far as saying it's one of the worst movies ever made but it's
bad
I don't know. Is that controversial? I'm about to find out
It's one of his worst films i'd say I don't think he's made many work films worse than looper
There's one i'm thinking of but I mostly agree with the fly
I don't think right on today's the fly
You know, I liked hearing people tell me that looper was like a really good movie and they were surprised that ryan johnson
Like was so bad with the last jedi and then I watched looper and I was like
Where did you people come up with the idea that this was a good movie?
Looper was another film that me and alex washed out of recommendation of people saying it was such an awesome movie and
When he says i'm not going to get a diagram out and explain all of it to you
We we were like pushed out of the movie. We were like, oh
You don't want to have to explain how anything works
Cool
You know, I like something. I like about like manga and anime
Is it manga or is it manga people seem to get mad at me? I'm pretty sure it's manga
But I say manga because that's my country's way of saying it's a
Okay, well that's one of the things I like about manga and anime
They will they don't care about if you don't want to hear it
They'll just slow down and explain things if they need explaining
It's nice then one punch man makes fun of it
Well, at least one punch man has the benefit of being a comedy and like doing it correctly
Right johnson failing his way up since mid too fast
So what are you weird grapes like seeing someone fall up the stairs amazing, what do you weird grapes think about interstellar?
Um, I it used to be one of my favorite movies and then I met mom
It's the movie I was second closest to walking out on but I decided to stick through it
I despise that film and I will make a video on it eventually. Yeah, there's still some things I like about it, but
Molly ruined it for me. He won't let me like things. Yeah, that's my whole
It's portrayal of like hard science and like space travel is really cool, but then as soon as they go
Then it sucks
Yeah
When the creepy weird time ghost puts his hand out in the black hole when they're traveling through
I was like wow, this is some hard science right here
When fucking rose kisses fen, I lose my shit. That was some hard science
For the record, I don't like the movie and it would work better if there was no aliens
I don't know. What is arrival without the aliens?
Wait, hang on arriving when exactly there wouldn't be uh much arriving
I guess I guess the pods like i'm not trying to be a dick. I don't understand how that film functions without the aliens
Yeah, that that would be kind of um, it would be better without its central plot
It's better if it he's basically saying it would be better if it didn't exist, which I wouldn't exactly disagree with but
No, wait, does he mean like we have to struggle with the ideas of like a timeline and all that stuff
But no aliens involved. We just focus on that. Is that what he's maybe going maybe maybe if it's like
um, the probes they send down are unmanned and the aliens aren't actually there and it's just like
A mission probe with some information in it that could be interesting as well
Hey guys, first time seeing you live. Love your stuff. Here's some money towards treating your collective time travel migraine
It's not time travel. You see it all in a continuity of linear progression. Am I doing it right jay?
So the moral of the story is if you can make a story that doesn't involve time travel or anything to do with
Manipulate in time do it you'll usually end up with a confusing mess. Otherwise
Pretty much. Yeah
It's confusing, but it's not a mess. Well the time travel algorithm isn't a mess
Can't any emotion caused by media be considered manipulation since the piece of media made
You feel that the way it wanted you to feel and by definition would be manipulation
Well, that was it doesn't pull the rug out from idea after
Well the word I think most people would use is earning it right
If someone's like thing
Oh my god, this tragic thing just oh, no, I didn't yeah, I mean look at the hobbit
I mean it really wants you to be sad about thorin dying at the end. Sorry jay. Don't watch it. Anyway, it's fine. Um
It wants you to be really sad about it, but it didn't remember that at all
I've read it, but I don't remember it well enough to me. Well, it's completely different in the film. Don't
Hear it's completely different. So
Um, it didn't really earn that at all. It feels really manipulative when the characters didn't act in a way that would
make that sadness
I guess real
It depends on the movie actual sadness. I it's a big thing to break down exactly what constitutes
Uh, yeah, you kind of got to go movie by move and break it down depending on the context
Yeah, it's it's a tough one
But I understand the uh the interest in sort of exploring it makes a lot of sense because it's like yeah
Couldn't you just say everything is manipulating us in these movies because the whole point you're like, yeah to an extent
Um, and it's also a good thing because that's the whole point it's supposed to make us remember what it's like to feel things
remember that guys
I don't think I really felt anything
Wolf you left last week 90 seconds before my super chat about you
Just wanted to say I thought your book was fucking trash and interstellar marines is a horrible title. I agree
Well, that's it then none of them
Bolt on rain of fire the dragon movie starring christian veil. I think it's very underrated
I'm gonna guess neither of you have seen that
I've never heard of it. Oh, we should watch it
It's a pretty damn cool movie. That's all I remember
I kind of don't even want to explain the premise now because I'm tempted to just make you watch it
Just write it down. I'm gonna forget about it
Get off the show. I will
Let's let's make sure I spell this correctly
Palpatine episode nine a surprise to be sure but an unwelcome one made me want to grab the laser rope and then I realized I
broke
I
Realized it broke new ground that I clapped of course i'm back for episode nine you massive
Oh, yeah creamy she was actually very happy about being back. I think that makes a lot of sense
Damn you creamy she
Imagine during all first encounter with aliens trump greets them by stripping naked in public based on the principle of not being a threat
I would watch that movie. I don't know about you guys
I would watch that movie if he did it in real life. I'd like by front row seats
The greatest president of our time
I'd be like up cheering and like throwing my fist in the air and be like, yeah trump
trumpleton
Mola mentions me in an e-fap
Mola mentions me in an e-fap while fangirling over devil may cry five's ending best day ever
I don't remember. I don't know much about it
I'll make gold they mean they're fangirling over devil may cry while being mentioned by me in e-fap. That's probably what it is
good
If captain marvel was busy with other planets
Why doesn't she help in guardians of the galaxy too when egos blue cream was destroying multiple planets across the galaxy?
That's a good question
Blue cream
I'm gonna put that in gedel
Don't worry guys in another year and two weeks you'll you'll finally get to hear that reference
Is blue cream
You know what it's a good question
Um, we I guess we'll find out creamy she will find out wolf just figure it out
Figure what out?
Well, the interesting thing is he says that and then the next super chat is from him as well
Zach gilbert and he says rise up my fellow n-words
Is that part of what you needed to figure out I don't know I don't know
uh
understand to unite the toxic brood
I
I think it's it's doritos and milk or like the pineapple
Why doritos and milk that sounds disgusting. I don't yeah
I don't know about that stream. Don't piss us off. We're a toxic brood
Yes
So judging by this stream because I haven't seen it this movie basically has lots of interesting ideas
But poorly executed modern sci-fi movies in a nutshell then
Yeah, I mean I I wanted to go see the movie initially because I was like, oh
It's not an alien invasion movie. It's about communication. That sounds cool
So I went into it like really wanting the movie to be and I had no reason to believe it wouldn't be
I just didn't like it and my friend really liked it and I literally watched it again
Like a couple days later because I was like did I miss something?
And I figured I watched it again because maybe watching it
A second time knowing the twist would have kind of like that shutter island
Uh effect where it was like, oh everything's recontextualized and it's even better
But I still didn't like it and then we watched it again a few days ago and
and less
So I I really wanted to like it. I thought the
It's the same thing with um a quiet place like the scenario is awesome
The execution is not good
Uh thoughts on what captain marvel said in the last teaser
I feel indignant on behalf of the rest of the characters if you're referring to when she said last time you didn't have me
um, i'm praying to the almighty russo's that that is a setup but you're getting smacked down because she's over the top, you know
full of yourself
That'd be so nice
But i'm cynical and i'm assuming that she actually does do something useful and that they realize she's really helpful and she eventually becomes
the new leader of the event
That's what people want
Yep
They should have just used duolingo lingo shake my head duo duo lingo
What is is that spanish? What is that? Just a language learning app from link with the aggressive bird pinion
Why didn't they use that express a plot hole explain?
um
Because the bird was too aggressive if it was gonna work. They would have used it the film shows that they don't use it because it doesn't work
All right. I wonder if the bird died in the explosion
That's a pro. I mean
Probably doesn't it get blown out with them?
I don't remember if the bird was in it that time
The one time they don't take it
Oh guys, I think we fucked up
Uh, the explosion happens and like the bird is dead. Something's wrong
Arrival had some good ideas not terrible six rags
No, yeah. All right
I found the pro-life element of arrival with regard to hannah to be moving i'm always surprised to see that in popular films these days
We did respond to that yeah
I give this film nine out of eleven. I think that's a reference to something vague
I would never understand. It's from dr martin luther pepe as well
Well, if that's a fair point I wouldn't support lying oh there you go
I guess I was just appreciating an element in a vacuum
I totally agree lying manipulation was bad and therefore right adoption is better
Sorry
Yeah, because the question of is a life worth living even if it only lives to the age of like 15 or something
That's a really interesting question
Yeah, you could make like a good argument either way. It was just
Like I said, I don't have a problem with the fact she did it
I had a problem with the way she treated hawkeye for doing it
Ifap civil war unrelated, but will wolf ever apologize for the abysmal aquaman review. Oh
Why would I apologize?
She said I thought you're gonna be like why would I apologize for the truth? You know something something snappy
Because it was long
long man
People really did like aquaman you just should have been less mean you should have been like, oh, you know
It's not as great as everyone's saying that's all I mean
And you should you really what you fucked up was not saying in my opinion at least five times
That's true. What you don't understand wolf is that um aquaman is set in a deterministic universe
Yes
All of the yes because it happened
Her knowledge is what causes the rift in the relationship and makes her choice weird
She could have just chose to tell him beforehand
Because you never know he might if she framed it correctly he might have been like, okay, I see where you're coming from
It's the fact that she didn't tell him
And that she just let him on like that I don't blame him for leaving at all
It's a horrible lying woman bad
And i'm saying lying in general ever bad
That seems pretty like why'd you have to make it about everyone? Why couldn't it be about a particular agenda?
So if she knew if she knew from the moment that if she knew from the moment like because she says oh
That's where my husband left me like right at the beginning like well not at the end of the movie
But like at the beginning of the relationship before they're together
Why did she then go on to tell to tell him if she knew like was she just getting tired of like
Oh, I guess I can tell you
Maybe
Yeah, the movie doesn't exactly took over object actually that makes sense actually I buy that
Yeah, I'd say either guilt or maybe he would
Then he'd figure it out himself and then he'd confront her about it. Oh, oh, yeah, sure
I either or
Either way he she still kept it from him. So this next comment has just reminded me
It's the it's the was this the trio of movies. Was it?
Arrival interstellar and annihilation. Are they the three things or was there something else i'm missing? I feel like it was a rival
Aquaman annihilation. Oh, but aquaman doesn't really fit in with those two in
No, i'm not talking about the fact that they begin with a because of course that's true, but yeah, I think that was the thing for me
Wolf i remember you were listing like three movies with like began with a i'm being like these are the three movies that i'm gonna talk about
Well, we have yet to
Me and that's me and wolf project. That is annihilation. Yeah for annihilation
The next super chat says I mixed this movie with annihilation. I've been very confused
Also, i've been wanting to do youtube videos, but I have a deep southern accent. I have trouble with mumbling and stuttering tips
Try and train yourself to just speak slower even if it takes longer to get them words out
Make sure they're nice. Oh, I have the same problem. I'm never good talking live
I mean the only time I was good talking in this stream was when I was reading off word for word notes
I had already taken and I didn't read off most of this stuff. I said I just paraphrased most of it for this stream
Uh, see I didn't even understand anything you just said so
Yeah, hopefully. Yeah, exactly. So script out everything and there you go. You'll be right and yes
Annihilation I wonder if
I feel like our arguments for that movie will will be hell of a lot harder to argue against than arrival arrival almost got
Like a backdoor exit with its time thing
Annihilation we had a completely different
Outlook to it because with arrival we had to pause it a couple times and like say, okay
What in the hell is happening here? Yeah, we had to like lay it out. Well annihilation
We were just laughing through like almost all of that. Wait j have you seen annihilation?
Oh, no, I've not I don't watch it. Maybe we'll do a me wolf rags and j
I wish I wish that we recorded that because there were so many
Dude, what I missed the most is we did record the bubby 3 that shit was hilarious. I know
Oh, there's so many things we should have recorded that we did and then we're like, oh that would have been great
Uh
My partner's family is more family to me than my own blood also explain romantic partners if you can't live outside blood more so
I would not we're not bringing that one back
I do I think you you love romantic partners in a different way to
That is true relatives because you don't romantically love your brother and sister unless there's something fundamentally wrong with you
One of the hosts is from our kansas as well. Really. That's true. That is true
Uh adoption man bad mola. We're not a hive mind. We're a brood. That's true
someone literally
superchild middick stinks
All right
Okay
You could make the argument that you would have a stronger connection to a biological child
But it wouldn't necessarily mean that you love an adopted child last love is blind
I agree
If it's played with hands, why call it love is blind
dude
Toto the table
Super chat if it's played with hands. Why is it called football?
What I guess american football yeah, yeah
All right, then
Uh two hour captain model video. Guess it's time for me to clear my schedule much much excitement such hype
Wow, thanks in advance mola. Yeah, it should be a couple of days
Uh most I would hope
Jay i'm the guy who made the avengers is not a superhero movie video and while it's a ridiculous parody
It can be as real as you want it to be
Oh
Oh
Did you respond to it seriously jay? No, I haven't done that. Oh, that'd be a
little awkward
Don't worry mola. I love you even though you're adopted. Oh
very kind
Thoughts on ray being palpatine's daughter
ew
She'd probably be like great granddaughter, but
Why do you have to why do you have to make the distinction?
You would ageist
Yes, why couldn't an old person have a wasn't there like a 78 year old woman that had like a daughter? It was really weird
That's the thing that happened google it
Biology is scary. Okay
Oof oof is a massive mola. Oof oof just hates you because you're adopted
This is just this is toxic brood stuff right here. Efap versus chat round one fight infinite
sharu cans, I don't know if that's how you spell that but I agree
Don't need to pass my genes the holes in the pockets
Well, there's a theory that
Strang was time looping trying everything you could think of and the only thing he didn't do is give him the stone
But he says that there's only one victory and i'm assuming it's the one that we're seeing
I don't know. We'll find out. It's it's possible features and maybe you may 11 days
11 days have you booked your tickets? Yeah, jay
Yes, good man because they're getting his mix
With that, you know scary people want to see this movie i've heard my local cinemas view. So
I don't know. I just wanted to slug off you. I don't have anything to follow that word. They're just shit. I
agree
You know once I went when I want to see war for the planet of the apes
Uh, these the left speakers weren't working
So we only got the right channel audio and that meant we couldn't hear some dialogue in the film
Oh, did you get your buddy back? Like what the fuck? No
I that kind of reminds me
Back when imax was new or new word at least I went to go see
Um the polar express in theaters. I was a little kid at this point. So
Um, there was like 30 minutes of the movie where it was all a black screen and it was like what's happening?
What's going on?
Wasn't exactly the best 3d it wasn't exactly the best 3d experience
Efap 32 the adoption debate mola versus oof oof
I don't know. I think adopted kids are lesser. I I mean the same
So he doesn't know if it works just that they have a chance and he says to tony that there was no other way
Uh, I assume that
But if there's a chance that there would be more than one other way
This is actually something that fortier brought up the other day
He was he was just talking to me about because fortier loves the mcu, but he was like, how is it?
That there's one way that works like surely whatever way that's gonna work
There would be another reality in which someone does the exact same everything but someone's hair falls out versus doesn't you know
What I mean, but that's not that he only looked viewed 14 million possible features. So that doesn't follow
It could be he got really unlucky and and like actually like one in five
Possible outcomes are good, but he only let's assume good ones
Yeah, let's assume there was a billion successful ones, but a trillion trillion trillion trillion unsuccessful ones
He just got a really bad selection
Well, not actually if there were a trillion trillion trillion trillion
Unsuccessful ones and a billion successful ones actually i'm not sure how that math would go
I was about to say I have no idea if that's unlucky. I think that's actually I think you would actually have got lucky to see a good
In that scenario, you could have just kept going they had about a good like half hour before thanos got there
Why didn't he carry on he's like, oh if we just move to the left we win immediately
Is it is it something you can choose as well?
Like I want to explore this one on this or is it just like you just go you press this on and it just goes
Based on based on that noise. I want to go as the audible one
Uh creating a life that you know will die in agony if your own benefit is selfish
It would be selfish for god to do that. It is selfish for a human to do that
That's from southpaul, by the way blessed be
Well if it's for your own benefit, yeah, but like
Ask someone who's terminally ill if they were never born because they're terminally
This is the problem if you could ask that person would they have preferred to never live at all?
I'm not sure they would have said and the thing is as well because of the nature of how like her time
Works, she could have asked her daughter if she's like, I bet you wish you were never born her and her daughter was like
No, that's ridiculous. Why would I why would you say that? I'm just like, okay, so it's fine
These are your final moments with her. She has very little timeline like okay. She goes bet you wish you were never born
It's like mom really
Donate to help rags have puppies. Oh
No, no movie bob wants to come on send him an invite
I think those they said that was like a reference to the fact that we're we're talking about you. Jen. I'm not
Please have me love is subjective
Not to love bots. Okay, love bots have it encoded within them to love based on
Uh j finish the sentence based on j that's you finish the sentence yourself
Sexual reproduction is your predisposition to continue your genes offspring relationship is separate
All right
Passing on your genes is essential to species but not to individual not all people pass on their genes survival of the fittest and all that
This this is this is ephab in a nutshell, isn't it? It's like the few few ones ago. It was like, you know
me dick smells or whatever
It is it built into us to want to care for young relatives as they are still related to us and are passing down some of
Our genes. Yeah, I was gonna say I read something about how there's a reason why we care about
The young of of other species as well, but okay, it could have been some kind of clickbait. I don't know
Not gonna lie mauler a little suspicious. You need to use the bathroom immediately after seeing the bayouin art
I can't say that
We adopt a better script from the last jet
Yes
I represent myself and I personally have no desire to carry on my genes. Boom theory and scientific evidence be damned
Frouge doctor a Frau Frouge
Roget I'm not sure about that one. So where and how do I get enrolled for my first semester of efap university?
Oh, we didn't actually explain how to do that. So
contact
Wait, hold on. I got an idea. It's uh, you got to go to efap.me and there's a subscription service there
There you go
Is there actually a subscription service in efap.me
I don't know find out
By going to efap.me just explore the website. You'll have lots of fun and it'll encourage the creator
It is actually a lot of the little thing to be there. I can't believe he's counting the pauses in there
I know it's insane. How many how like he is. Yeah, he's done. He's on episode one
Not only has he counted the pauses he's counted the pauses
For each video individually. What does it say the pause you got to go to the episodes tab and then click on the first episode
And it shows length four hours four minutes 16 seconds total pauses
370 videos covered five and then it says my thoughts on friends my thoughts on friends
Uh video length 653 timestamp 721 pauses three
Holy shit, this man is insane. This is amazing. I know I love it
Oh, it's it's like I do not envy his position at all. I don't envy the person having to write the law section
How does that even we can we get this person a team of help?
Do you know something? Uh, you know, I should have said this while rags was here
But rags was like just spitball in law and he was like, you know how you have like
before christ and after death
Yeah, he was thinking like before jared and after death
The bj times of efap
Oh
This thought be efap because of my job i've never watched a single episode of efap
But i've listened to them all just imagine all the terrifying mental imagery running through my head after all this time. Keep it up
Anybody who listens to them only holy shit, you know
Whoa
We know we know it doesn't mean after death guys. Oh, yeah, i'm saying that for shorthand guys. I know that
Don't worry we are aware
Do you know what's funny? They did this in my high school and in in my uh primary school like the teachers were like
Actually, it doesn't mean after even the kids were like, yeah, we just say it because we're not you know
Scholars, you just say after death and they're like, well that's incorrect because they're just like, uh, yeah, okay
I fully believe that that's what your teachers really sound like
Jay, you fail to understand the historical relevance
Thought i'd ask since none of you have ever really spoken out on it in detail. What are you guys's opinion on the last jedi?
What is that a reference to something? I prefer the second last jedi
Oh the penultimate jedi
Yeah
The penultimate jedi
Just say adodobidai. All right guys never say after death again, okay? Yes
Like after death is off the cards if you say after death again
It'll piss off everybody who doesn't want you to hear you say after death. So don't say after death again. Okay?
Okay after death
Uh, the breadsticks in manga y heads deli are too good to be true
Well, this is clearly directed at you breadsticks in manga
uh
manga y heads deli
manga y is that a place I
Have no idea
The mandalorian trailer was released if you care. Have you guys seen love death and robots?
I think it's pretty cool. Love y'all that was from uh, james mole, by the way
Um, i'm gonna watch that real soon. I'm not i'll probably check it out because I know that everyone will be like
Well, what did you think of it and i'll be like it's a trailer guys. We really don't have much to go on
I'm gonna say that next defap when people ask
You guys seen love what is love death and robots? I sound familiar
Look at my eyes. It's on netflix. It's got roan. Atkinson in it. I want to say
I'm watching it when I get home. They didn't cast him as zazu in the new movie. This isn't yeah
Isn't there there's a point where you rant about that in the yes, it bugs me. It also bugs
Did it bug fringy? I think someone got bugged
I mean, why just why would he yeah, I mean it's bad that he's not but also why would you want to involve him in it?
Yeah
Put the put jeremy irons voice over star in the trailer question. What is wrong with just like look?
I hate it. Anyway, but why not just use the original audio like all of it
Yeah, that's a good point. Why would you not get you're gonna get james. Earl jones back, but you're not gonna get
It
I mean jeremy irons has just as iconic of a voice
You can't replace him
Hello, he doesn't sound as pathetic as the new jafar but still
Hello my n words. I'm here to recommend the best book i've ever read wizards first rule by terry good
It's great storytelling and incredibly consistent over the entire series. The first is amazing as a standalone
Well if you're the only person who can read so I guess that's on you
Okay
Go read all of them
Too busy on the wheel of time. Okay. Oh, yeah
Someone did super chat last time you didn't get to see they were like upset that you hadn't gone through all of it yet
There's 15 books. I'm, sorry
Even if there were a billion that wouldn't be an excuse
I mean there's you realize how long these books are even if there were a billion
Are you saying just because they're long they're bad?
Oh
No, i'm saying 15 books that are 600 pages long. There's
A little difficult. No
Why are you doing this to me? Why are you doing this?
How dare you
The efap producer is fucking preparing the fire wolf
Preparing what if scenario hididaka?
Hididaka, that's how you pronounce that right miyazaki
Hididaka miyazaki writes the star wars prequels equals basically doesn't tell shit and you spend hours learning how everything went to shit
Why why not?
Orphan milk. Damn it. You you've literally tweeted something. I was gonna tweet to me
Yeah, what the the things only true fans noticed in the risers
I did that like two days ago get with the times
Wow, god, you realize that we have to carry twitter because rags and wolf aren't allowed on there
I we have to we have to bring the efap memes to twitter. I prefer to see it as they've been purged
Well, of course, they shouldn't be on there because they're disgusting but i'm saying that we have to pick up their slack
Why you just have to to to get kicked off as well. Yes, eventually
Can you cover the last jedi restoring balance of the star wars fandom by make stuff?
I believe that is on our um our thing because if you look at all of the episodes of efap
We've covered the last well, we've covered star wars probably the most as a singular subject
We still want to pace it out so that you guys like, you know are able to like arrival
This was this is an interesting change of pace, right? Even though a lot of people were posting like snoring emojis in the chat
um
so I I gotta get going I get a
Long drive and there was a blizzard. So
He's saying just because it's long. It's bad. No, I know i'm saying that it wouldn't be as long
Blizzard today, so
Why do you hate blizzards they make good games some of them anyway
They do but then they fucking make they have extortionate systems by which they market those games and I agree with that
Well, I I have to do the game of thrones is more important than you guys
Bye
Bye. Bye. I'll make sure to spoil it for you mauler. It's okay. I'll hate you
Yeah with a fork
You'll hate me with a fork
Why?
Don't test me
Okay, goodbye what yeah i'll see you guys later
Okay, this is the second time you've outlasted two of the three hosts of efap
Oh, can I say I just I have
stream stamina
Love how we started very early so that you wouldn't have to whisper and we are now yeah
Six we're coming to six and a half hours
Let's do this. We can do this now that two of the people who may have had super chats
Actually directed at them are gone. This should be pretty easy to get through i'm sure
Soon i'm gonna be like in my own place. I wouldn't have to deal with whispering in the middle of my I can just yell
obscenities into as long as I want
Life and folk milk
Uh
Uh, so are you gonna are you gonna hate wolf with a fork? Okay
Wouldn't it be a spoiler if I revealed that?
I mean, yeah, but it's like palpatine's laugh. We don't really know what I mean by it
That's true
Just leave so jake can win
That poor woman is going to wake up tagged in a meme. Yes, she will those two efap videos though
How do I find that how do I find that video, um, what is it called?
I I I was searching for it. I was gonna search efap university, but I think someone said um
I have continued while I was typing it in because I just tasted it in the chat study abroad at efap school of communication in france
Let's see if there's any comments
There's got to be right
This is coming from eight minutes ago. How do I enroll in the efap university?
Rip the comment section now. I know there's gonna be there's gonna be at least two more comments from from since we've said
I refreshed it and I didn't get anything. There's nothing yet. Maybe it's gonna take a while for them to show up
What do you guys think is the best mass effect?
I've played the first ones of that one. I've played none of them. See, this is the problem wolf would have been able to answer
that
I say I played the first one. I mean i've played like for
an hour so
Exterminators is the only answer. Is that a reference to terminators and exterminates in one word?
Um, I just I I hear dalek words and now i'm excited
Ex wait, really after after the episode you hated
Oh, man, don't don't bring that up. I brought it up. That just makes me sad. I did the thing
All jay had to do was hit wolf with his flood thesis to win damn
Yes, that's a reference flood thesis that was quinton I think
That's something about a flood. I don't remember the memes are tough. This is why we need the memes and lore sections
It's gonna be like it's gonna be it's gonna get to a point at some point when you just like there's too much in your brain
And it just explodes from all the memes and then we have efap red efap 2 where it's just a complete refresh
It's like the the new
testament
reef app
So I got r2d2 and about after 20 hours the wokeness has driven me away went on youtube to see if I would get any better
And boy, did I leave just in time doom eternal can't get here fast enough
Oh, I read that as r2d2. That's red dead redemption 2. Oh, we've all done that. Wait
20 out of this wokeness in red dead redemption 2
I
Mean they might be referring to like the black cowboys, which isn't particularly work
It's just historically accurate, but I know a lot of people were like, oh, it's so woke
I'm afraid I haven't played it that I can't but if it's if it's something else then maybe
I don't know
I've not played it. So
This guy makes me never want to be passionate about anything publicly ever again. Oh, that's about the man that we cover
That's the
emotional man
I really want can someone please like who has talent
Edit the trailer out of that video so we can just see like the raw footage of him melting down
Because I think it would be genuinely really disturbing and I want to see it
Like add like a creepy soundtrack and you shout everything other than just him and you picture him in like a room
Just an empty room
I
People are weird when it comes to star wars. Yeah, mr. Toxic five-hour brood video maker who talks about his dogs while efapping take that
I have been offensed this guy's husband's boyfriend loved this trailer
The other two beds are please watch the clown world video on stream honk
I
Have no idea
I call this like on stream and they're just calling you a honk
I don't know if I'm sure should I be offended on?
Yes, I don't think I should I call this at the end because I was playing dnd. What has happened?
Nothing, really? This has been quite an eventful stream. Wouldn't you say?
I think you all like saw the light about arrival being really good
Um, I don't think wolf would agree with that
I I think yeah, but he doesn't know that he's just but he's just like he doesn't have
He can't comprehend how much his mind has changed
So nazi ism brought to you by aqua furor. Well, that's
What furor did you catch that
That's a good joke that's it is actually
I approve of that joke, uh, but I don't I want to clarify because you know
If you approve of jokes about nazis you prove nazis. I don't approve about nazis
I just wanted to can you say that please as well? Just
I don't approve of nazi see how he struggled to say it. I think that's a dog whistle
I'm just scrolling through the memes on effect on me
Remember when manchester university band clapping replaced it with jazz hands
Imagine if 4chan convinces these people that jazz hands are bad, too
I think they could do it. Why?
Couldn't they do it press s for slippery slope
Why couldn't you yes, how would you guys feel about an efap novel too late? I'm already doing it. Um, is that like
I don't think the law but pressed into like a series of events
I would read it
You probably read some of it live wolf would probably review it
So
Bring psa sitch on efap. I believe he is he's going to be coming eventually. We've got a lot of
potential guests and like these creepy weirdos who've been on before always seem to come back like that
Bring daddy g and the the the rhino milk guy
You know that guy j?
Uh, I I think I I think I killed him in halo ridge one such a creepy weirdo like I hate him
I'm, so glad he doesn't watch these you're the only ones that he's on
Left hand equals. Okay, right hand equals white power. Oh wait, we can do it the left
Is that cool? Oh
I mean, I guess so. All right, maybe that's gonna mean something else soon. Like you're fucking
gay bad
Wolf rate your sister's hotness objectively
Well, he's not here. So
I wonder how he would have responded to that
I there's literally there's three out of the next four that are related to him
I feel that obviously save them all save them all and
Put them to him next time. Do you really think I should save that the one I just read out?
I think you should absolutely see what he has to say about it wolf
My dad and I watch all six middle-earth films each year. I enjoy the hobbit films
Though lord the rings is objectively better. How would you improve the hobbit flicks?
I'll save that one. That seems like a question that wolf might actually be interested in asking
By the way, I have bad news that if apple probably gone for two weeks now because we're we're
We're planning on releasing a funny thing, but also because wolf won't be able to make it so
That's sad. That is a that is a hot sad as they say in the in the network
This year ready to go more potential ones more thanks for gedel
I was hoping for an unbridled praise for tlj, but I love gedelb now a favorite part, but nobody's asking how fester it
Well, you see a lot of people think that's parody, but that was true
Have you ever heard anybody ask how fester was as opposed to asking about his quest? I have yeah
Don't like me
I think it's bad
I I keep people ask it all the time
wolf remember the iron code
Is that
Don't understand
I don't I don't get it. Hi wallop. That's
Probably a slew i'm sure of it rags also looks like a
Puerto Rican porn star in my head canon now because of his jawline beard and man bun
All right, I think you'd actually be happy with it
You sure game theory she was dating shimmy sky
shimmy sky stomper
And got chuckle chucked by the force that's why he did it evils
Okay, I mean it could be in the lore I haven't checked the books on
I'm really excited to see kyle ben redeem himself and evolve into his true form kyle skyle waker
That'll that'll shake the the universe
You sort of pay the master things so many people have seen you say that that happened that type was there now
You'll just become a thing even if it's not a thing true
It's become true now
It needs to be true. Even if it's not
You could use the seal does bane to kill ray
Oh, she can probably defeat invisible enemies. It's ray
Do you can probably sense them with the force?
I mean the force is like in canon established to be able to like work instead of sight so
I think that if you put any if you
If you take anything or do anything that increases your power level or abilities in any way
You will thus be more susceptible to death against ray. I'm pretty sure that's actually how it works
Is that has that kind of power like she has the best chance against her is like a baby
person with no arms or legs
a baby person
I'm literally like saying it could be any it could be an alien could be an alien
No, we have to expand this because ray can defeat almost everything if not everything
I don't know. I don't feel like she can defeat. Um, Captain Marvel. Yeah, I agree. I was literally about to say that
I have the obvious joy steal my thunder
I want to know what would happen would they just like
What happens when an unstoppable force meets an unstoppable
Supposed to say immovable object. That's how that phrase goes neither of them are immovable
You're that's are you is that woman hatred I hear I mean captain marvel can be moved by hearing a few
Yeah, I feel like you haven't spent years thinking about this you've only come up with this over a few minutes and that's just unacceptable
You realize they spent centuries writing this trilogy, right?
Yeah, yeah
And I heard they like dug it up from the original like fucking ancient
Runes no, that's not the word for it. What is it? What do they have pictograms?
You mean hieroglyphics? That's the one
You're a bad man bad. I believe they translated the sequel trilogy from the original
Ah, this is one for someone different wolf. That is one of the worst parts of the anime manga
They can't just show it. They have to show it and explain it over and over again
Wait, that was for wolf death
Well, i'm gonna copy that
Do you think people would ask wolf questions because he's like the one that always
Says things that people hate him saying
How dare you I think I think wolf is possibly the more the more controversial figure on I agree with that
statement
cloyd said this in chat, but i'll stay here for you to see episode nine's title is
The rs which also stands for testicular regression syndrome
Oh, that's a good connection, but you you removed the oh it would be yeah, but you don't always put those in
It would be testicular regression of syndrome
Everyone knew that i'm just picturing the character from the incredibles
So he has testicular regression
But
Finally we get a movie about skywalker
Oh, that's for a second. That was like a genuine superstars. Just like yeah, i'm looking forward to
false looks
Oh, I forgot what it's like to feel things
But yes, it definitely be sarcasm. It probably is ironic disney shells could save other from nostalgia
But not themselves. I I feel like they've always been doing that, you know, they didn't want to save it
They want to plow it
industry team
Figure it out. Yes, just trolling you about arrival wolf. Yeah wolf. He can hear this I think
He might watch it back. He could be watching it right now while he's like preparing his vehicle for the blizzard
Hi wolf. Hi wolf
Call him a man
You're a massive and you're wrong about arrival. Oh jesus double whammy
Can't wait for harry potter the rise potter
The rise of potter
Can't wait for rise of hitler. This is all from the same guy
JJ did it as well as genesis
You ever heard about fanservice of emperor palpatine helogrido said the title means we're all skywalker
Oh
Oh, yeah, I saw that
Because hello burrito has not had a good take that i've seen it's always been a taker i'm like what?
Maybe they're using the uh, hi
I he had one good take that I I quite liked and that's that he is concerned about emperor palpatine being in it. No, that was
jeremy johns
Well, I mean multiple people. Oh, okay. I thought you were referencing what we're talking about. No, yeah, uh
I don't know why anybody wouldn't be concerned, but I guess those people do exist
Because you get the old people going like nuts and you see like our trailer reaction where wolf didn't even hesitate
He was just dead
If I was still eight, I would think it was amazing
I think even if I was eight i'd be like but he died
I'd just be like this. I mean when I was eight I wrote my so I was fanfiction in which he came back. So
Hmm
Well, there you go. Your dream your dream fulfilled
All right, I say rote
I mean I was on the bus thinking about what I would do in a dao was
Sequel that currently then didn't exist that still counts
Also maula said my name cries like twin bed guy watching episode nine trailer
The interstellar marine's book art was rather iridescent wouldn't you say a wolf?
I'm gonna copy that one
Wolf's gonna be so freaked out in the new defab when we finally get to us be like wolf
There are several super chats for you to read
Like about about 10, you know, he's gonna be like one of the context for these they'll be like, yes
There've been enough of them. That's like probably people have left ones for him since he's left just to fuck with us
Well, are you trying to sneak around but your dummy thick does the clap of your ass cheeks keep elating other critics?
Please tell me that you've heard that
No, I haven't
Oh, i'll have to send you that at some point
All right. I mean now that you've heard the full quote there's not much to it that um that you won't see but basically a guy
Says that
But like unironically it's pretty funny. It's pretty funny. I like it. All right
Jay, good job on your aquaman. Keep up the good whim
Oh, thanks, man. I worked really hard on that
Why is space deadly in guardians 2 but not in infinity war?
When is it not deadly in infinity war?
Because I know when it's deadly in guardians 2. I know that's like a big thing at the end of the movie, but not in infinity
Are you talking about when spider-man is entering space? He doesn't die quicker?
I'm confused by the talking about when thor is in space. He is an asgigard. He's an asgard
Asgard I fucking love jeff gold
Asperg asperg wait, he did say asperg. I don't know. I don't care. He's a baby before an asperger
Medic stinks is the catchphrase of isaac butterfield an australian comedian slash youtuber
What are y'all's favorite foods hashtags toxic spider brood milk?
pineapple pizza
um
I I kind of hate to say it
But yeah pizza is probably one of if not my favorite food pizza is really good. I just feel like pineapple on it though
That's well, obviously you're joking because that nobody would do that. That's like
Want to put a toilet on your sandwich like no
How do you just like buy this boy? What's wrong? Hang on. I get what's wrong. I get what's wrong with that
Like it would be have you tried to have you eaten a toy? It's like your teeth get all fucked
You've never had a toilet sandwich
Is it like between the bread or on top of how would you even put it between?
Would you put um
You put the bread on either side of the toilet and then you eat it either side of the toilet
So I have to explain these incredibly simple things to you, but it's sandwiches vertical. So the toilets vertical
So do you put it on the seat? Do you lift the seat?
You remove the toilet like, you know, you don't get what you don't get when that's plumbed in you fucking idiot
That's so dumb. What I said didn't require that the toilet was plumbed in look at this guy
Doesn't that make a toilet sandwich?
Would you eat it if it was plumbed in my my requirements obviously assumed that it was not plumbed in i'm saying
Would you lift the seat and put the bread?
In the you lift the toilet and put it on the bread and then you put the bread on top of the toilet
Like you make a sandwich with any other so where's the top part of the bread going on top of the toilet?
You say that do you mean on the lid itself? What do you mean on the back lid thing?
Well, like you know the top part it goes on that
Yeah, no, okay that makes sense. Yeah. I just wanted to clarify. Oh my god. There are toilet and bread emojis
Plumb me in daddy. Okay, let's toilet milk toilet milk. This is a super chat. Let's thoughts on iabad 3
I hate that movie can't answer that quickly. I hate it
Bill Mars in it
He is that's true. Um
That movie's really bad and it almost destroys 20 stock and it's someone that makes me hate it but then
Age of Ultron and civil war make up for it by moving his character along after chain black almost fucked everything up
Hey pepper
We just used this army of ironmen to save the president save your life save my life and roadie's life
Now i'm gonna blow them all up in a predetermined firework display. I was just like, what are you doing?
Are you gonna get well, it must have been you wouldn't have fireworks prepared would you is that person he did the predator?
Yes, yes. Yes
Yes
He likes to destroy franchises
It's a thing that he does
What should we give him next? What he's like a fucking blender or what should we feed into him?
What franchise we want to destroy? Well, what if we gave him star wars and his destruction would counter ryan's?
The point where it fixes it. What about that?
That makes sense
I feel like that would be an interesting sort of I think we should do it guys. Let's do it. Let's do it
I can't believe you say things this insightful when you don't know me
I don't know what you just said, but I agree with it on like a principled level if you know what I mean
Sure
Mola check your discord dm. Please. I got a funny
May-may about the soy boys was guy. I did see it, but it's not what we want though
It's a weird. It's it's not it's a bit. It's too spicy
Like what we're looking for is ones where the what jay said that's the ones that we're looking for
mild spice
Yorg lucas can't be found anywhere any ideas
is yorg lucas like
the european george lucas
justin
I don't know
Who is georg? Answer me that maybe german irons doesn't want to come back or something
maybe
Hmm maybe
I mean I could understand that I wasn't upset
I was making a joke about him ragging on jay when he's 25 years behind in world of time misrepresented. Oh, don't worry
Dude, he wouldn't have known it was you I was just you know
Lemon is flams, but i'll put that in like
My folder of must read all of these things to wolf
Hmm wolf
Mess, you know what i'm saying? I will hit you with a fork. Don't test me gedelb 2020
But I mean, I think I said I put that in I got gedelb notes here
Oh your your notes not going to show up on screen anymore when you do them
Well, not right now. They would if we were covering a video, but like, you know
Okay, there was actually somebody who tweeted me saying I'd missed. Um
Some I can't remember what note it was but they were like you missed a note
And I checked my notes. I was like, oh no, I did it and I was like, oh I didn't do it on screen
So there's gonna be a couple ones that won't actually
No go up, but uh
Fun fact 4chan is currently working on making the thumbs up sign racist one thumb plus four knuckles equals the the 14 words
What are the 14 words that's probably a racist thing, I don't know well, whatever guys
If you can get rid of the thumbs up, then I think this is unlimited power at that point
I
unlimited power
No, I wasn't referencing that I like that movie as was what is it like star crash?
Lord of the rings the one with the ring. We've been talking about this several times today
How did you fuck that up? You two have fantastic chemistry. You should join a podcast together
I've been thinking about having him on my podcast
maybe once or twice
Not more than three though, I think podcasts are inherently dishonest
I don't agree with you molar. I paid for that answer
Is that uh, is that oh he's the guy who said rags also looks like a porta rican porn star in my head canon why
like
Yes, I agree
Mola as a highly invested ironman fan. What do you want most for tony an end game?
Also, is there a release date for your captain marvel video?
As for the latter
Expect a release date of as early as wednesday and as late as friday
Because i'm gonna show people it tomorrow my my friendlies and if they can find
Relatively big errors in it or they think that maybe something should be cut i'll be doing a re-render and then it should be out
Shimble has death as for what I want for tony an end game
That's a tough question. There's a lot of ways you can end his story really well
Um, I just want to see what's great. Yeah, there's that
He's he's gotten older great, which I think was a very controversial choice
But I do like that. He's gotten older over 10 years like he's aged
He didn't have gray hair in fucking infinity war. That's your opinion
Also, he dies here
Can you get it he's been on this planet? He hasn't been able to die it
And that's actually might be it
Actually could be it
And then the final super chat wolf, why won't you just love me
And then wolf don't leave the folders getting massive
All right. I'm gonna copy both of them into the folder. It's even doing jokes about that in the movie
It's like oh, why is your hair changing color?
They would never insult a man for losing the color in his hair that's that's massive talk you wouldn't
You
You're saying it's bad just because it's massive yes all of the yes
Should the mcu reboot to include x-men?
uh
mcu reboot
I don't think they're gonna reboot anytime soon
but maybe
I mean, they probably will eventually the problem is the power levels are getting too high, isn't it?
It's making it impossible for there to be stakes if everybody for example black panther sharing the black panther technology is going to like screw everything up
um captain marvel
She's also gonna yeah, it'll
They need to do like one point
Not have those guys have all their movies though, would they?
No, so we're gonna get all of them at least first. Well, can you do an american accent you
Let's say you e dot r i c k is that trying to spell some kind of racial slur?
Yes
I am disappoint
Um
But yes, I do uh people have noticed it's not even necessarily on purpose
But people notice whenever I do like a stupid quote I put on an american accent
Prize rags hasn't ripped into me for that yet
Like it implies definitively that I think every american person is a stupid like wolf wouldn't detect that so it's fine
What because he's in a american?
No, because he's really uh smart
Yeah
I guess someone you you're asking wolf questions deliberately now
Yeah, they 100% are
Patch is the spider. Why do I feel like I know that's a dark souls reference
But I was just like I feel like you might have just called him back
Oh, is that like we're up to date on the chats now
Yes, we've done it and i'm gonna say j
Would you like to explain why people should subscribe to your channel because uh, I just released kadelb 3
You did not I did it's good. We should do that for the next April fools. I released kadelb on your channel
I mean, that'd be really funny and I think you should do
But then when I release on my channel
I could release my black panther everything wrong with unbridled
That would be racist because that movie stars an african americano
Yeah, and i'm disagreeing with the person who doesn't like it which
Not racist. Why didn't you respond to wolf? Huh? Why did you respond to me and not wolf? What's that about?
I found yawn first
I was gonna say because wolfs was probably easier to go for because he has more of the race jokes which makes
You like find that's very offensive
I I don't want to be that guy. I like I I just I know I don't want to bring that kind of I don't like
Bring that kind of
Well, that was your loss
Is it is it because I'll be like but hey that one time we made this joke and you're like, yeah
I don't think i've ever made any race jokes on my channel
But i'm sure there's some kind of joke that could be like you're okay with this but not this and you're like
Yeah
And then it's all over
Yes, the point the point where I started judging jokes like I I did it like a while ago I used to do it
Oh, yeah, that's my bad. It's not actually again
Well technically it's a dark souls reference in bloodborne because patches was in dark souls
And then they made him patches the spider in bloodborne
You're right. That is actually the pirate patches the shut up. Oh god
How can you be a spider and a pirate at the same time? That makes no sense
A spirit that's a plot hole and you know it
Yeah, we did it six hours and 40 minutes that was insane i'm gonna probably go to sleep
But oh my I can't go to sleep. So I gotta wait to re-upload it and make sure on moolah
But anyway, yeah way to do that go and subscribe to jay
uh
find this
Broadcast on the moolah channel
Stay tuned for a new video on my main channel and the moolah channel that's been
Specifically made for your entertainment. It's coming soon. All of it's coming soon
It's going to be wonderful and we have plenty of episodes planned for the future
I'd like to say anything
No, he wouldn't like to say anything
toilet sandwich
There's no when you have to put milk on the end for it to be
Accurate. Yes, either way. Thank you all so much for the incredibly talented memes
And just the pictures and the everything it's just an infinite amount of joy
um
And of course the generous generous donations. It's been wonderful
I hope you enjoyed the episode. We'll see you the next time we have
another one
Good night, everybody
And goodbye
Happy I was waiting for you to say something but you never did
I said I wasn't gonna say anything
