Booting back up for portion two
New streamer ooh
I
Hope it says upcoming I think you mean a live
If it wasn't live then how people in a chat how can a chat be alive and dead at the same time the horrifying concept
What black magic is this
Yes, give me a moment trash. We should be right long
so I guess I'll go to
nifap and
Here we go
Hello hello, hello chat hello. Hello. Got him a screen can that thumbnail right out?
I
Nail corrected
Boop boop boop just making sure it's all got to unlist that old one
We sold your fourth
Yeah, it's the same old story chat. You know how it goes
You know at this point all right so the first half of six hours now
We have we can literally go for another 12 hours. Oh wonderful. Yep
Reset the clock done. Oh, this will be annoying if this happens several times during the the eventual next 24 hour one
Don't do it YouTube
Well, I mean how long did the last one go we got the full full-timer on the last one
This is what I mean. It just seems to just do it sometimes
I mean the stream that we did today the last part that was oh you're asking how long that was yeah six hours
No, well, you know six hour sections not so bad. Yeah, it's just it seems random because we've had it before we're
Died for us before at five and a half died of us first before in an hour
For us our fingers and hope yeah
That he blew
Also, I found out the by checking if my internet was working with the front page of reddit Andrew yang has dropped out of the presidential race
I guess following the results of New Hampshire must have been I
Don't know. Anyway, I shall carry on reading I suppose
Okay
The James at chat with the ball a stop. All right chat. Just get back in order
blow the whistle
We are back to miss James
Yes, ma'am
Okay
I am wrong thing a drill sergeant Kurgan equals most awesome thing ever
Who's drill sergeant kurgan? I
Remember zim
Drill sergeant kurgan
Well, it's pretty much as said as far as I can tell with a K rather than see
He's the guy who throws the knife
That's oh
Is it zim kurgan or kurgan zim? I guess
Let's see
Zim
Yeah, I think so also
Is that the guy who voices mr. Krabs? I think so. Yeah Clancy Brown. Oh my god. He was Satan in Mandalorian
He was Satan
90% of headshots are fatal rags
Yep. Yeah
Mola did you long man bad the Irishman? I mean I was bored and it's like and I felt like they could have
They they they sat on a lot of things that could have been
Achieved in shorter amounts of time felt like there's a little bit of
Posturing or paddling in the same area. I felt like the story really dragged at certain points
obviously, I don't have a problem with length in general because I mean
Wasn't well Lord of the Rings like
Lourdes are pretty long you guys would agree with that, right? Kinda
That's a sir
Master chief would rape doom guy and I love it and love it. Okay. Oh, that's a reference to no
Rags wear me like a puppet on your doggo rocket
I
Gotta be a tight fit. You'll have more than a hand up your ass. Yeah
These Marines have no shields which can withstand tank-busting weapons
Also, how strong are SM a Spartan can lift 12 to 13 30 metric tons. Oh
Oh space Marines are just a whole different league what their armor can withstand and it's it's just
So Ramite is way more powerful than it looks it looks like it's just thick metal
But it's actually not bad and it's powered. So I don't know
I wouldn't want to be in front of a space marine as any
Dylan that they face up against
To be fair Spartans are stronger in law than game
No, right
Okay, Master Chief couldn't even beat doom guy. Oh screw attack would disagree with you on that one bucco
I
Stand by it. I
Mean if you ask me just for my limited experience with both of them. I would assume
Doom guys got the benefit of like
Being the guy who just doesn't seem to die, you know
while
Like like his attributes are often tied to just he's just he's too angry to die man, right? That's like his whole thing
well, yeah, but he's also really fast and
Master Chief moves really slow in the halo games. That was always yeah, but he certainly could move faster
they're like Spartans are very fast and lore and everything which I'm fine making them fast because
There's no reason for them not to be the game slow them down
But they can certainly sprint super super super quick
If you want to yeah, if you want to go with just like lore then yeah, Spartans have a huge boost
Obviously, they're slowed down in the game because it's a controller based game, but I'm pretty sure doom guy is just
Kind of just a really badass
soldier
No, that's doom Slayer. Yeah doom Slayer is way different
Yeah, doom Slayer is the guy in like doom 2016 doom guy is just a marine
essentially, I think it's a meme argument to be honest where it's like
You know like Lord doom guy doesn't really have a lot going on. I mean, it's not really about that
It's about the entire experience of doom just like getting in the game running around really fast and killing everybody with a shotgun
I don't think it has like
Books to back it up like
Halo does where they describe all these things that Spartans can do that. They don't do in the games
I'd say I'd I wouldn't I wouldn't say that I think they could both win
Think they both could reasonably have a shot doesn't seem like an unreasonable matching to me. I
Also think it's probably context sensitive like the weaponry that they're using
I mean if you had the BFG 9000, it'd be really hard to fight them
But at the same time, I mean Master Chief has a lot of different weapons you can utilize
What's what is it? Just like one-on-one, you know, it depends on the weapons depends on a lot like it could go either way
I think
Yeah, I very much agree with the arsenal part of it like what are they using?
Like imagine, you know because Spartan laser is gonna annihilate the shadow of a lot of things
But then also so with a lot of the way like the BFG who wins Spartan laser or BFG
I mean Master Chief with a sniper from a distance doom guy doesn't really have an option against that
But what if he's wearing the Iron Man suit, huh? What about that? I
Like the Iron Man suit that's the best suit
Death battle said Master Chief would beat would best doom guy beat doom guy might be good if that material
I mean, I don't I
feel like that's the kind of thing you'd have to
Really get some references and agree on a definitive source for these I would you know, it would be interesting to have
Like a pairing like that where I don't know who'd win
But we get an expert for each side on as guests and we go through the video. Sure
That could be interesting
if
If this was modern combat first aid
He would first direct the casualty to shoot at the enemy and find cover and then apply self-aid if possible
Very well, what is that in reference to I assume I guess the Porsche we were talking about our
Medics work in combat as well as training. I don't know
Yeah. Oh, yeah, absolutely for sure any given space marine could kill Master Chief with bare hands
Then you bring a bolter which is effectively a grenade machine gun to bear. Sorry chiefy you're going down or you're going die
Yeah, we're comparing like
2.5 K to
40 K. It's it's just a different. It's just a whole different universe
Yeah, I think it's really
Partisan where people are better Halo fans for like map 40 K isn't that great and there are too many
Variables for me like I don't know what a needler does against space marine armor, right? Probably nothing nothing
That's like 40 K logic. Yeah, but like okay, so then the blueberry cannon thing from reach
What would that do?
nothing, probably I
remember them running one of these things and the true achievements I used to use I remember to one on efelvos before but
like
I think we brought up a Adam Mercer is his name. I believe the guy from
What's it called something Mercer maybe the one from why am I feeling his name the
The one that's not infamous
Prototype which one?
Yeah, prototype. Yeah, he was in the fight. It is Alex. Alex Mercer. Yeah, so he was in the the fight and
As soon as I saw him there, I was like, so this is over like him. He's
this like
Sludgy supernatural monster thing and they had people in there that were like normal and average
They had like a big daddy in there, which is kind of interesting when putting him against certain people
The interesting thing with the big daddy though, because this is where rules start to get really complicated
It was like big daddy vs. Master Chief and people like Master Chief wins. It's like well
but what about
Closed quarters and the big daddy is from Bioshock 2 and he has all the plasmids and he couldn't he freeze Master Chief
Well, okay. So there's a huge distinction between like play a player characters
lore and fluff that goes outside a game and then
Well that a big sister the rule set yeah, true they were they were a neat idea I suppose they were neat
well, how okay, so like you have Master Chief has the shield and the armor and
I'm assuming that the armor is made out of some sort of alloy or something. That's really powerful
But it can also take damage after the shields go down
So I have no idea what the difference between like if he fought the guy from prototype how powerful that guy's tentacle of things
are whatever versus
The what is it this?
Which big daddy we're talking about we're talking about the one that has the drill hand, right?
Well, this is the problem sir. I don't think they specified so it's just like big daddy in general
It's like so do we take the best of all big daddies or do we take the one from the original game that you first see?
or something like that
Right, like the of course everything. Yeah bioshock too big daddy is obviously like the prototype guy. He's the best
So yeah with the plasmids like he said, yeah, absolutely. He has an advantage
But again, it's hard to like define what these power levels are because especially in games
It's all just based on the the numbers that have to do with the game's pace
So like games that have a high TTK, obviously you think the characters are gonna be weak
but we don't know how to compare the
the stats between the different items like the bolter thing with with the 40 millimeter grenade I earlier is set in chat like if
Master Chief takes a 40 millimeter grenade hit from that
Bouncy grenade thing and reach and that takes his shields out then wouldn't one
Round. Yeah, yeah, that's right. Yeah directed on a kill. So then obviously
So then he should die with one
bolter round
or two
Yeah, it's that it's I
There they're just two different universes. I think space marine is definitely one of the ones on a much higher tier
But I think that like Master Chief and doom guy and you know, big daddies and stuff. Those would certainly be more interesting options
Yeah, and it would basically just be trying to establish
The limits and their powers and then figuring out the likelihood of one winning over the other
Because it's really tough and it's also hyper nerdy
Yeah in a good way, which we definitely don't do no
No
We're so cool here. We only talk about power tools and football. All right, I'm a fake gamer girl
Did you watch the game last night Rags?
The game yeah, no my team won. Did yours win? Oh
I don't even know
Was to convince these people we know shit about sports ball
All that that the New England Patriots. Oh
Yeah, they're a football team our team yeah, I hate them
Also hockey versus golf. Oh, yeah Wayne Gretzky
Yeah, that one
Wayne Gretzky got a hole-in-one on the 18th hole
Master Chief versus Space Marines is like a galaxy class Federation starship versus an Imperial star destroyer
Out classes outgunned and can't keep up lol
Fair enough
Do you just don't I?
Really don't know how powerful star destroyer is because a lot of people in the EU
Community are like it has this and it has this and then when we watch the original trilogy
It doesn't seem to have that many like big guns on it
So I think this again comes to down to like there's the information that's given lore is way fluffier than it is in the actual
content
and
Like the the Federation starship thing. It's like, how do you know how powerful the phasers are same same thing?
Do just insulted wham and I think from the video I guess you must have said something incredibly controversial
Look closely. I'm pretty sure he has a bug in a skin suit like men in black. Oh
He's a bug in a skin suit. I'm pretty sure he's he's an alien the guy who made that video
More soon is Rico supposed to be Alfred
Yes
You expect a transport ship to have the armor of a battleship
Did he say that in the in the video
we criticized the
Bayships for taking a hit from one of those big fuck off plasma things. Yeah, I think that's stupid
I'm like it's not like I'd be surprised how many ships could have
Withstood that what it was side the size of half of their ship to begin with or it was pretty big for anything
Who's the mouth-breathing neckbeard soy cucked hyper virgin piece of XE that said 40k is better than halo
Has he even had subhuman intercourse?
I
Say 40k is better than halo and I will rend my enemies with the power of the Emperor. Oh, I
Don't know I really like halo is it's got a great lore to it
The books especially are really well at least the first three
really well made
Science fiction books that do a lot of work to establish world building and how the tech works and its limitations
And I appreciate that immensely and if anyone hasn't read
First strike the flood in the fall of reach
Definitely do it. They are fantastic
fantastic books
especially the flood
It's subhuman tentacles
Yeah, I agree it comparing halo and 40k is like hamburgers and hot dogs
I like both and I just like one more than the other because both meet between bread
Lies love it
Fun fact like the armor would be reused for the military and power Rangers lost galaxy
Lovey fap tell wolf to give wolf our regards
um, yeah, that'll be the third reference of someone mentioning how the the
armor was reused
Interesting. Let's take a look power armor lost galaxy
The
Are you talking about the the mobile infantry armor?
Uh, so infantry armor would be reused for the military and power rangers lost galaxy
Let's see if I can
Find a picture yeah, cuz I remember this one
Just see if I can find a picture yeah, I'll be more specific
Um
Yeah, keep going I'll I'll peruse around a little bit
unsc
Anti-material rifles hvap can punch through a meter of concrete a modern 20 millimeter black tip can only do 0.4 meters
I doubt a space marine would be able to shrug that off
Uh
Yeah, I don't know I don't know anything about space marines but from what I hear they sound pretty fucking op just saying
Oh, well that's a picture
There used to be a conversation in the 40k community where there were
fluff marines that were from the stories in the lord that had like one rule set and they could shrug off a lot of
Glancing blows and stuff and then the actual reality on the game board is dictated by all the numbers
So you can have a a game where the your soldiers are
Seem really overpowered and then you can get screwed by dice rolls
so trying to discern what the actual cannon is is like
part of the reason why I want to make videos is because it's like
There are so many people that are trying to exploit
Uh a pre-existing franchise and make more content for it, but obviously they're not maintaining the consistency in it
um
And I think that a lot of these things they don't have definite rules that you could apply to other universes
It's just the context is so different
Usually the time period is different like halo does not take place in the 40th century. It takes place in what?
2500 ad
Totally different like that
Yeah
Donating just for sargon saying dies to removal
Oh master chief has better arsenal against doom guy
I don't know if you don't underestimate doom guy's arsenal
I don't know doom guy's got everything from assault rifles to plasma rivals to rocket launchers to
chainsaws to
He's got a he's got a pretty uh, pretty hefty range of weaponry
Uh aircraft is useless against artillery and tanks. Oh, wait, I think we read that one out when we were covering it
Doom guy is tran sex you will
I see
With thruster packs spartans have mobile infantry level movement spartan lock hunter armor trailer shows him smash through stone walls with and banshees
I mean, I oh, yeah, that's like the halo four and five stuff
I don't know much about that and I think the we all pretty much agree
Right that a spartan versus a member of the mobile infantry as spartan wins
Like that's new. So pretty much. Yeah. Yeah
And the comparison should be more about uh, regular halo marines versus mobile infantry. Sure. Yeah, or whatever they're called
Yeah, that'd be more even pairing. That would be one of those things where it probably comes down to
training and equipment I see the marines certainly making more use of artillery and
Vehicles better. Um
But unlike a marine to marine basis, it's probably one of those things that just come down to which is trained better
He was more disciplined
Uh, and i'm sure that the lights would turn out differently if they were fighting other humans as opposed to aliens or whatever bugs
Uh, Morley you massive you missed my meme last stream
It was an original song called the word of air wolf with a meme music video
Song is copyright free for efap crew reuse as well. Cheers
I will look into it and drop it into our video selection
Uh, I've got a got a note
Did that troglodyte intercourse having sack of tacks and just insult the clone troopers?
Apparently, I don't know. I'm gonna have to check out whatever um send things wrong with clone troopers
Yeah, we have to see about that one. Maybe we'll cover it. Who knows
They had to put the imperial guard for the war hammer faction. The space marines were deemed 2 op
40k
Okay, no, I mean you need regular troops I think that would be the first question every time that someone looks at 40k
Yeah, it makes perfect sense
That's one of one of my favorite things about 40k is how diverse the actual races are like they each have a very specific style
Of story and the in their culturals
In their cultural history, they're in a different stage. So like the elder like the elves in older mythology
They're on their way out the tau on their are on their way up. The necrons are reawakening
Humanity is on a downturn like that
You can create a lot of different scenarios based on the disposition of how all the races are in 40k
um
Yeah, anyway
Space marines greater size is also not an advantage. It makes them bigger targets spartans have aimbot aim and have below four millisecond reaction time
You think the space marines?
Don't have an incredible speed and in reaction time
And you don't think that all the incredible tech that they have doesn't assist them with aiming
Yeah, I believe uh what i've heard about a tank is big that's a disadvantage because it's easier to hit
Yeah, what if the tank could run at 60 miles an hour? Yeah. Oh god. I was a guy
Uh a tens are outdated platforms that only perform well in uncontested airspace and should have been retired ages ago
Sure. Yeah, but we don't have a replacement design. So we have to deal with it
Just like a lot of this shit that we have to feel
But it does apparently it does the job really well. So we keep using absolutely
Nobody doesn't want to hear that on their side
Uh at 118 that feel when die
All right
Uh do do do do
Did I ask arch wouldn't creek space marines be pretty much pre-heresy death marines that sounds like a new question
I'll save it for uh, yeah, I don't remember that
Scrolling puzzle by shad questions like scroll scroll scroll scroll. There we go
Um
I
Also, they clarified titanicus the board game, so I guess i'll put an additional
What do you think of titanicus the board game? We'll we'll get him that the next time he's around
Um despite representing just 13 of all indictments
Uh
I think the second half was supposed to be assumed
Um
All right arch the imperium using death call versus the cis. Oh, I remember asking him that I think
What do you think horses can't charge massed infantry arch
Both the english and french have a cavalry did this at waterloo according to matt easton
Yes, i'm pretty sure the doctrine
I'm pretty sure the doctrine is you don't want to charge with your cavalry directly. It's better for circling but you'll have to ask arch that
I got a question for syregan as well
The maxim was movie bob that's why it was heavy
Oh my god, dun dun dun explains everything
Arch 40k is gay halo is better. I'm so sorry
I don't know how you how we feel about that
Uh
So this one says hey sargon when you when you're going to come to scotland also hyrax
Hello, we'll save that for him as well
If I remember correctly the droids are stupid because their systems are really bad. They're over-programmed or something like that
I mean there's nothing in the movie about it as far as yeah kind of a weird one. No
Remember that uh behind the scenes thing where george is like the jedi cut them down like butter
They're they're fodder basically to be killed
But that's in that's not in universe. I understand that I think the
The in-universe explanation would probably just be that they have to make so many of them
They can't spend too much money on each individual
Yeah, i'd be happy with that
What what's the explanation for them having so much personality though?
You mean because of the fact that they they say kind of playful things sometimes or they they have they do talk to each other
Yeah, they're they're always like one-linering out of the the end of something. Oh a one-liner that you don't have that's just one line
It doesn't take too long to program
So it's like you're just sitting there. What's your program?
And he's like if he's gonna die. He should be like, uh, oh that'll make the guy killing him
When one of them picks up our tune is like you stupid little astro droid. It's like that's strange
But okay
Yeah, it's obviously just there to make kids laugh
Well, I imagine developing that is the hard part. But once you have it, you might as well put it onto all the robots
What would be the reason for putting something like why wouldn't it just go
R2 unit identified as opposed to you stupid little astro droid
It's like that seems like a weird thing to put in there
So that other robots understand his ire
Okay
Uh
To
I approve of arches choice of favorite isekai
I'm sure he would love to discover that the silent king made the nids arch thoughts
I'll uh save that for him
That's
Arch sly marbo. I don't have to save that as well
Grab my drink. I'll be right back sly marble wins everything. Everybody knows that deep strike anywhere on the board
What about people who don't know that? What are you gonna say to them?
I'm gonna say you better watch out for sly marble
In the books the forerunners have millions of worlds and built tactical halos also they built shield worlds the size of earth's orbit
So the yeah, the forerunners are impressive fair enough. Yes. Yeah rags made a good argument about that I agree
This is
Uh at one for sargon, but also mentions the idea of getting count ankyler on ifap the only interaction I managed to get out of him
Was he saw someone saying what the fuck is efap and then I was like you can come on some time and he didn't reply
So oh
Try again later. I will try again later
Finally all my favorite massives in one steam
I've been a fan of rag sargon and maula since before efap and it's so surreal to see you all together in one stream
Cheers to you all
P. S arch. Love your voice. I'm sure you'd appreciate that and that best universe
Yeah, i'm glad about how surreal it is for me
That's the same situation lies i'm actually here. It's very bizarre
Yeah, hopefully you're having fun too
Did you did you see all of our videos before you have happened?
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I've been here since screen tear and uh, like I said
Rags through sargon on one of the streams that he was on a long time ago
so
Checking them off the bucket list
Can we get a kadia stands the chat?
Oh, I guess they're asking for chat to say kadia stands. I don't know what that is
They they they did it if you go back and scroll up every day. I was saying kadia stands
Uh, the foreigners have a ton of information nowadays
They could travel billions of times faster than light and are widely seen as equal to krons
Is that new lore or is that lore from halo one through odst because that sounds like 343 to me
Oh
Yeah, I obviously have no idea. I don't know chat will have to tell me I I don't know
Get that
Apparently in halo the forerunners had an even more advanced pre-precessor referred to as the precursors, but the forerunners killed them all
All right
Um
That one's for arch as well
oop
They do have military advisors. They just don't listen to them
What is that in reference to?
When um, uh, yeah, sorry go on when he was when blame was on here talking about these shows of military advisors
Not every show by the way has a military yeah, i'm sure the number oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh well funnily enough
Marriage story which i'm gonna make rags watch soon because it's very good
there is a scene that's on the set of a movie and um
They're walking past different people and the director is with one of the actors and he's introducing to some people I guess
And he introduces it to the environmental specialist and he says to make sure we have everything accurate with how the environment's portrayed
And she says oh wow, how much of it is an accurate? How much of it is accurate and he just goes nothing
It's like okay, that's pretty good. So I have a feeling that's probably very true
They're like contractually obligated to hire these people and then they just they they take their input and ignore it sort of thing
They're like, hey, is this accurate? No. All right, then trying to get in the way of my story
Yeah, and it's just like well, you think we really need to make it accurate and the guys probably like
There's so much detail into the decision-making process for that especially with military stuff like let's say you wanted to do
1700s military stuff and you wanted to have real muskets the problem with the muskets is that because they're like black powder
Weapons a lot of the time the moisture will prevent them from firing
So when you need them to fire on a certain scene you'll have to have two extra props that are rented from the prop company
Just in case it doesn't actually fire
So you have like all sorts of reasons why people would want to cut the budget or cut the the prop
um
Detail from the the movie because like you can go to a prop shop and get a bunch of basic swat stuff
Rent out from a hollywood car company an apc or something and slap some decals on the side
That's what most broadcast tv shows do but if you're serious, then you get a military advisor guy
And that's how you end up with stuff like um
Platoon or saving private ryan or band of brothers. It's all the same military advisor. The guy's name is dale die
And you can tell that it's one of his movies because in his contract
He is required to have a speaking role in it. So in band of brothers
he's a general or a colonel or whatever and in platoon he's the
The forward operating base commander and all this stuff. But because you get that you actually get scenes that are
Slotted within the action segments that actually sorry
that actually have
Details that are historically accurate, but there's only a few companies that are really good
One of them is owned by a navy seal. Another one is dale die
And I think there's a couple more but I I don't know the names off the top of my head
Fascinating
Uh onyx was only seen as insignificant and abandoned
Onyx yeah, that's from halo from uh ghosts of onyx
I don't know what that is. Uh palpatine is actually an example of a sociopath
I mean he does palpatine's all about himself or he doesn't care for anyone else or he doesn't seem to react to anyone else's
anguish and pain in any way other than he's almost
Kind of happy about it. Um, that's something i'm missing
Probably I imagine palpatine's pretty sociopathic
And yet we love him he's our shivi creamy
Uh saw gonna notch finally make it to efap and I have to go to work instead of watching it live
Why god why also high regs?
Hello
Don't the guys who get low scores on the asvab go to the infantry?
It's not necessary there there are a lot of jobs the asvab is like a sat style test for aptitude
But you can get a lot of different
Um, uh, what do you call it mos is based on your results. You just have to meet certain standard levels to get the good jobs that you want
Like intelligence or special forces or whatever
Thing you're trying to go for
Um, I will save that one for solving an arch
Master chief is more practical is a more practical space marine
I mean if we're comparing it to
Yeah, I I certainly agree it's more like believable in that sense
Like I can certainly believe a master chief exists more than a space marine from you know war hammer
Yeah, less steps
But what if they mean practical by like
Uh more efficient at being what they are
I don't know I get like practical in the terms of
It depends on how you want to view practical in that sense like more capable of fulfilling their mission
Because they both seem to be pretty good at that especially space marines. But again, we're just talking about two
Things that are just so different
Uh, the diadact was a forerunner in halo 4 wags
I
Damn caught this one on the tail end. Oh, well. Hi rags
Hello. Hey, thanks for the belated birthday efap in a terrible one. So this is a good pick me up while I sketch
50 for y'all also. Hello rags. Oh, hello. And thank you very much
He says I gave in to the meme
You gave into the meme which one maybe
Yeah, I guess so. I'm not sure
Oh, none wrong with that. Yeah, sorry to hear that. It's not that's been a terrible birthday
But yeah, hopefully you're doing better and uh, thank you very much
That's all right. What kind of feeling is forever?
Absolutely, what kind of tea do you drink rags?
Oh, I just just louisian louisian
just
Ice tea. I like it. It's good. I don't like any of the fancy stuff i've had
Um, all the green teas and the earl greys and the dorjeeling and all that stuff. I just nothing fancy
Nothing fancy
Um
I just finished off roasted oolong
As a tea, I guess smelled like roast but tastes like honey and dark chocolate. Whoa
Hmm. I don't know if that sounds good or bad
Probably bad to me. I'm not huge on i'm not big on teas
For me. It's just simple stuff
Um a purple heart for shooting yourself repeal the 19th. Oh god
Oh, hello. Thanks for the mccthankies
I appreciate the mccthankies and mccthankies
John carrie shot himself in vietnam and was awarded a purple heart helps to have a senator as your father
I guess so. Yeah, that's true. Uh, i'd love to see arch on efap someday
Okay
Uh, i'd love to see arch on efap someday
Okay
Uh, all right
Hi maula, do you like halo?
Yeah, kind of nathan filian. Yeah, kind of and charity. Yeah, kind of
I don't mean to be rude, but there's an upcoming youtuber who could use some spotlighting
In in relation to halo nathan filian and charity
Uh interesting I guess I don't know. Yeah, I don't know what you mean
I'll be damned. I have to see him on the vod
Yeah, obviously people who are joining this stream now
Um after it got cut in half they're gonna be like so where's arshin sargon? I'll be like it's on the other one
i'm, sorry
Uh, so nuke yellowstone to prevent yellowstone got it. Yeah. Oh, yeah, that's uh, that's that's what I'd advocate for
Uh, gotta fight fire with fire
It's the only thing that makes sense
Why wouldn't you nuke something
Saw joker tonight fantastic and deserved oscars. I agree. I agree
Hey rags, fuck cooked carrots
What fuck cooked carrots, I mean I like them carrots
I don't know man. I I agree with tumbled. I like them think they're good. Also play akbar's theme
of course
play akbar's thing
Shad's three mistakes on vinland vid vikings from late iron age not medieval
vikings had razors and face hair combs so goatee not unlikely
And pagans wore cross dresses during the time period all the time
Um, I can save that for him
Yes, this is a specific pagan cross. Yes
That is true, but I don't know if it's a regular cross
Yeah, I don't know
Baby girl liked your spankings a great reaction
Haha
Mola say rags tiene el colito irradato
irrutani
hola avocado
Mupa a few actually wait, I should probably find out what that means right? This is the fun part of all of this
Do do do do do
Translate.com. I didn't mean to do that, but fine. Whatever. That'll work translate. You mean early?
Trans early making sense. I hate you tech language
What that's not translating. That's just the same one you fail me
Cashew
Let's see if google can do better
Okay
It says rags has an irritated ass
It is not irritated. It is cool and refreshing and satisfactory
Uh mupa a few faps back I asked you to pronounce terra hort
Out and you mispronounced it. It's actually pronounced terra ho
Oh
Okay
And high regs
You
Hello nailed it
Wait, hello. Did you not get that?
Uh, that one came through. Uh molar if you cover interstellar, please do research on the science behind it
I'd hate to see someone use the video against you for missing something
Very well, I shall uh look into the sky ends behind it
For sure. Yeah, that'll definitely uh, yeah the science behind the fourth dimension
Uh
And traveling beyond the event horizon i'm sure
There will be a lot of of content for me to go through but I I mean
Unironically, I will talk to like people who know more about it than I do
But if you think that my problems with that film start and end with the science like oh boy
We got we got a lot to get through in terms of the issues
I wish it was just the sky ants
I wish
Have you seen the gentleman yet? And if so thoughts? No, and I do kind of want to see it because i've heard good things
Uh, pretty sure I want to see pretty sure audience unlike ability is part of being a mary sue
Is it?
Is that how it works?
How do you determine audience unlike ability before the audience has
you know, like
Um, like like if the star wars films hadn't been seen by anybody we could determine ray was a mary sue, but like you wouldn't have known
Whether or not an audience will like her. In fact, I don't even know that the majority of audiences don't like ray
I would actually bet that most people think she's fine
Yeah, they just haven't
Thought about it. They just don't think about shit like that. She'll do anything
It's like highly offensive to the average moviegoer. I imagine
Um medaka
Kurokami from medaka box is a mary sue but exploring how weird someone like that is is the point of the series so it works
Very well, it's like one punch man
I've seen all of the cwdc shows and I can recommend arrow seasons one two and five
Crisis on earth x and else world crossovers, but that's it
Hi, right only crisis on earth's eye watch or infinite ones
Yeah, some people are asking if we'll watch the else world ones because the batwoman's in that too
Maybe I don't know how much of that I can take
Yeah, maybe maybe later. Let's we need to cool back down and just hang out with batwoman for a bit, you know
specifically here
Um and high were high rags ooh woo. Oh
Oh, hello. Ooh
Backstroke of the west soon. Maybe even with wolf
Uh wolf won't be making anything, uh going forward the go to lord the rings one's coming
I think that's the last of wolf related things
Yeah, those are just old ones
Literally like a year old soon. Uh as for backstroke of the west
Again with these loads of efap movies candidates. We need to actually make record some more efap movies
Been a while
Yeah, i'm totally down guests
The dark saber is from the clone wars. It has plenty of lore
I think that's actually what glibber's probably referencing is that the law in
Yeah, I am aware that I had I talked to james more in the comments about that and or the chat and
My problem is that they put a huge amount of emphasis on justifying this edition. That's aesthetically there because it's
Unique it's like oh we haven't had a dark saber before and black is pretty cool looking and why not?
You know write something in there to justify it and to me it's missing the point of
What how how the original?
Lightsabers that were introduced in the story came across to us. It was his father's lightsaber
And that's why it's important to him. Luke didn't get this ancient saber that was stolen
It was from the first mandalorian jedi
Who?
You know invented it and it was passed down for generations
It just has a simple meaning to the story and that's it's his father's lightsaber
Because if you could just have any lightsaber you want it kind of goes against
What george was doing in the first place which was saying that there's blue red green and that was it
The reason there's a purple one is because sam jackson asked him directly and even though george said that there's only blue red and green
He gave him one
So if there's an orthodoxy to having these different colors of lightsabers, maybe you could get away with it
But in my opinion, I don't think that
Adding it into the cannon is adding anything. That's interesting
I feel like it's because the person that was given the creative authority to put it in there thought it was cool
And then came up with a fluff justification so that nerds would be like, oh, yeah, it's cool
I like it too. So i'm gonna accept it and I I just don't think it's excellent
Storytelling or exceptional. I think it's put in there and justified after the fact just like having young sabine or whatever
some young mandalorian woman in control of everything and jet packing around or whatever it it just seems to be
to support storytelling that
Has a hard time
On its own as a narrative
It needs all this extra cool stuff to be better. I don't like that kind of thing. It's it's
My other example of this would be like if you have jj abrams coming in and he adds lens flare and camera jitter to all these
Actions that are supposed to just be interesting on their own
But you don't think that it's interesting enough on its own to hold people's attention
You have to make it extra special by adding all this extra
Um as much as you can do to make it look interesting
um, I don't know if i'm coming across
The right way but
I'm trying to say that I would much prefer that
There is an inherent story reason to something than a long-term lore reason that goes back thousands and thousands of years unless that's the point
like the ring in lord of the rings
Yeah, it's almost like um
Remember that um, first off remember that the solo movie was a thing that happened
But like a lot of the world building in that was like meaningless empty surface level world building
It's like look an alien you haven't seen before
You know stuff like that. That doesn't really do anything for the rules or the universe. It's just look
You get another alien not seen ever before we're the first we added it
Yeah, I I would I would say it'd be cool if there was like a storytelling thing where it was like
Oh, yeah
we found this planet that has lightsaber crystals and
They're all they come in all these different colors and you can choose what color you want and then
That generation of jedi have all different lightsabers and it's personal to them and then
If they fall then you have a lightsaber that reflects that individual person and it's their hilt and it's their color that they chose but
It the the dark saber specifically to me represents something that is
It's its cool factor before its relevance to the story and it's it's a checkoffs gun
That's engraved to make it interesting instead of having an importance to the plot or something that is relevant to any of the characters
Um
I think after batwoman season one is done. You should watch the else wields crossover
It gave batwoman a way better premise where she was looking for bruce
That sounds infinitely better already. Yeah, that does sound better. Um
I'm sure she is better. I guess batman's is gone. Yeah
What are you massives doing this weekend? Why no efap?
Well, because this would have been on the week. This is the slot for this week if that makes sense
We do one per week usually to make sure that yeah, we wanted to schedule it so that we could have our guests this week
And yeah, we move it. So
We used to do it. I think consistently on sundays
Because that was when wolf was most free on the weekend days and since wolf is sort of uh, obviously left now
We try and aim for saturday's because that is typically the day that most people in general are free
So it's just a good time to hang out with everybody
But then obviously depending on the guests we have if they say something like I am free on mondays and tuesdays
It's like oh
Well, I guess we're doing it mondays. Yeah
so, um
If we're doing this week's efap, which we are now
I want to say seven hours into uh this week on a tuesday
That means the next one won't be until next saturday now
But like I said this supplementary stuff to come no worries we got
Yeah, do you've got dead on the way?
What's that? Sorry?
I think yeah stuff will be coming out. Yeah. Oh, yes
Couple days for something maybe
Anyone play terminator resistance yet?
I have not no not yet
Is that if that's the new one i've heard it's all right. Yeah, i'm hearing good things about it
I need to play it at this point. Uh, because this says if you love t1 and t2 you'll enjoy it
Especially the last act like ah, yeah. Oh really we get on that
Fun fact well for one people go ahead
No, people who love t1 and t2 they they need help
They need some love they need some they need some just acknowledgement that they exist
Uh fun fact world war one germany had a fairly effective conscript army at the beginning of the war
I mean, I yeah what happened to all of them the thing is I
It was no our point was never that conscripting an army is a bad thing
It was just weird that he was like to have volunteers means your army will be weak compared to a conscripted one
It's like there are pros and cons to conscripting and using volunteers
Yeah, yeah pretty much
Sargon loves hardcore henry
Well, perhaps rags and I shall
Perhaps we shall like it
Do y'all think it's super duper cool do an efap on film joys in defense of tlj mikey newman's takes are funny
But they
But they're sure to be hysterical now post tros
Yeah, we've only done
How many have we done any tlj videos since tros yet?
jenny's one right that was it
I don't think anyone else yet
Yeah, I don't think so
So yeah, that's that's one for the potential list still gotta do shawn's one
That's one that we've been planning on doing for like 10 years
There's a ton of them that we haven't done. Mm-hmm. Jenny's was one of those but we finally did it
Yay, that worked out. Well
Brought a lot of people over here. Yeah
I think we should merge the front runners into a mega front runner to fight trump
Yeah, they could all like connect together to make a mega zord
um
I don't know if it's ethical or legal though, but you know ideas don't have to be legal, right?
That's true. Satan has a pretty good qualifier for a mary sue you feel the rules of the world bend around them
Such that their failures are accidental successes. That's kind of what I meant with uh
um
You know with with raise, uh
I don't reference marriage story again
But it's funny like this this isn't just marriage stories
There's loads of stuff, you know in like in a job they say like what is what is your biggest weakness or something?
And you say I work too hard
Yeah, like the response is just like is that a weakness like uh, totally. Yep. Well, I guess too hard by definition is
Yeah, well no because that is there's a thing right if it's like I work really hard to the point where I exhaust myself slash
Can hurt myself?
Even as an employer you kind of like the way that retail works these days
It's like they practically want that out of you
They're like they want you to be half dead before you in any way slow down
Will you sacrifice your soul for this company?
Like I mean, I remember when I was getting you know advice on how to do job interviews back in like school and then parents stuff
They would say stuff like that. They'd be like tell them that you you work yourself to the bone and it's it's a problem
You wish you could overcome, but it's just part of you
I don't have any family. I don't have any friends. You could kill me and get away with it
What all I do is work work work all day every day
Um, but yeah, no, I I think I think satan or literature devil would be uh, right to throw that in the rule book. Um
It's not that it has it's nothing to do with like, you know, can ray
Uh is ray an effective blacksmith? It's like no it's about what skills she has that also
Every time the plot presents any kind of issues
She just she's able to overcome them and if not the plot just moves around it like like that point makes for example
Force healing and it also happens to be a thing that's going to solve their problem in in the
Horrible monster won't kill them and they have an escape route from the place that seemed to be a trap like it was just like wow
Hooray, yeah, good thing we knew good thing this power popped into existence at just the right time
And I think it was mentioned also just part of that scene that it makes no sense that quicksand would dump them into an empty space
Really really bad script
But yeah
Remember humans and their filthy intercourse gave us gender inclusive bathrooms and the 19th amendment hashtag bug people rise up
No, we missed the bug people. Oh my goodness
I missed the xyclon bob stream, but you remember his response to avg
Did you remember his response to avgn when he refused to watch ghostbuster 2016?
It's unbelievable watch nito burrito's tv reacts video at around the 350 mark
I would be interested to see that actually i'm gonna make a net
Yeah, make a note for that look for later just even if it's just off efap I would like to watch that would
Uh, let me shake your hand
I don't know who that's directed at but yes
Yes
I'm not leaving till I shake your goddamn hand. What what is i'm confused what's happening rags. Did you promise to shake someone's hand?
I'll shake many hands. I've shook many hands in the past and I will shake many hands
Future rags will shaketh your hands out
Byzantines were a cooler than rome greek fire is real life wildfire from game of thrones
The Byzantines also binged
blinged
Themselves out. Oh blinged themselves out with beautiful frescoes
the only reason why the the Byzantines are
thrown chain on is because um
The empire split and so they were just not as magnificent as the united roman empire
But they they have all the qualities of any civilization that contributed to overall progress, right?
Hello there wags and moopa hello
Doing some commissions while listening. This is a peek at you by the way
Ah, excellent. Also. Happy birthday to the doggo. I hope everyone is having a good day
Yeah, my day's going pretty good. This is our day
Basically efap is our day. Yeah, I woke up an hour and a half before efap. So this has been my day
Um, yeah, thank you. When's the doctor coming on?
the doctor
Dr. Random or cam. Oh dude, I would happily have him on but um, yeah, I gladly have him on
But I don't think he does streams
Oh, that's a shame. Yeah
He's funny and witty. I'm sure he's a very clever very smart man
Maybe he's not a smart man and he he just he talks for 10 million years and he just edited out all the best bits
It was a sham the whole time and he comes on efap and it gets
It's exposed
Can you imagine the size of his vocabulary if that were true he just talks like that off the cuff constantly
Got oh seed military grade pepper spray a few hours ago. Damn
Really well, uh spray it in your eyes. Make sure it works
Was fine while doing all the physical stuff. They make you do killed up and wanted to die once I made it through fun times
Congratulations you made it and no one can take that away from you. Yes
Uh for time tracking purposes, we are at the point where rags admits
He has the absolute most massively big gay and said I could try on his glasses
You
Know i'm thinking back with my memory brain hole. Mm-hmm. And I don't remember this part
This part is kind of escaping me not gonna lie. Um
Uh, fuck adult swim metalloculars was awesome. I like to make a lock of lips too. It was good
Adult swim yeah, it was good. Adult swim i'm still dos
Of course
If you guys ever look at the clone vid I offer my knowledge have yet to see that one but guessing by this one
It's pretty tismy
Um, I mean there's probably a lot of people we could bring on for that one. Uh
Military and star wars peoples
Just a quick hello for rags. Oh, hello
Hi massives subjectively the first time you saw the title crawl and a minute of tfa. What were you feeling? I know it's a crap movie
Dot dot dot. I mean I was I was totally down for it man. I was highly excited. I was down
I was very concerned as soon as I saw luke skywalker's vanished because I was like, oh shit
They're gonna keep them out of the movie or anything. I was totally uh
Ready for them to take care of everything. And so I read that and I was like, oh wow
What could this mean? How will it go?
in like
Sorry, go on. Yeah, I was just gonna say like if someone could calm me the fuck down. They'd probably like
Lay out for me like what exactly do you think they're going to do with this?
And why do you think that they'll handle it? Well, and why do you think it would be in his character?
And I would be said they're like, I don't know it might work
I'd be like, oh, we don't know. I have no idea how he's vanished. Is he off on super secret mission?
That's very important. Is he training his jedi in super secret or is he doing something else? Maybe he was kidnapped
secrets man
So it's it's so like optimistic at that time and I I agree I wasn't like it didn't kill it
the thing that really made me like drop into super concern mode was when um
po started talking to uh
What's his name? Kylo Ren? I was like, oh shit
I hope the dialogue doesn't stay like this where it's just like quippy like uh, like it's the avengers or something that freaked me out
Well, luckily it didn't stay like the avengers it decided to become its whole new
Own thing that was horrifying. I wish it was like the avengers. The avengers is better
It was it was like the avengers, but the
The maiden china avengers that are knockoff not trademark
Yeah
Wow, you think china's as bad as rise of skywalker, dude. Oh, well the sequel trilogy
I know china's awful, but come on
PS wags glad you're on board with sitting on my face. I am too
Oh man, that's great to hear that. Mm-hmm. I'm sure he could put you to work
Uh rags, don't bother worrying about pooping with the door open. Just squat on up here and poop on me
It's not gay or anything. Don't worry
Uh, if I if I had someone who asked me to poop on him, I just I don't think I could
Don't think I could
I'd like to imagine the part if the supremacy they hit was the starbucks and food court areas of the whole civilization thing you talked about earlier
Oh, no, it'd be a nightmare
And all the people on the section that
Like they have to rescue all the people who were on the section that got cut off
Imagine like they're just mostly unaware of it all because people can live and die all the way through that supremacy
ship without even knowing much of the outside will like they're just like
What's happening today? It's like oh they're chasing. Um
I don't even know like just some guys
In a big ship that are evil, I guess that resistance they keep telling us about yeah, I guess
Wow
What a strategically useful thing
Just putting 2.8 million or whatever of your people into one position that could be blown up great idea
I just joined so missing all the stream. Did the point that the guy who made the movie hated the book come up?
He didn't really care about keeping it the same as the book. You might as well not compare them
Uh, that did come up
Yep, it has been covered. Uh, why is there melee in your sci-fi because it's cool and guns aren't foolproof
Did somebody ask that question
I
Don't recall but I guess it's just one of those standard questions of
You know, how come melee is apparently made a resurgence in terms of its usage
In the same style, you know, you yeah molar in your welsh accent say this isn't even my final form
Please do an audio transcends, please do an audio commentary on revenge of the sith
I do want to do more audio commentaries. I got to get around to it
It'll happen. I don't know about range of the sith. Maybe one day. I got other ones in mind first
I want to kind of tackle things that I don't usually discuss either in efap or in main videos
There's a selection of films out there like true romance like the fly
Mm-hmm
If rags had a clone i'd get on my knees between them. Oh my
All right, and then they've got banana
Water splash and person with water on head
Person with water on head sweaty person we got some good fans
Morley you should get jeremy jeff evs and anna when you cover cosmonauts prequel trilogy video. I think it could work out very well
We've got a whole so many people who probably want to jump on that one
But that's that's a good selection for it possibly. Yeah, good work. That's uh, yeah, that's a good idea
I would like to have some good guests on for that one. I would say anna's probably uh
A really good good shout. She's she's probably gonna be very interested in covering that
Um, but yeah, i'll have to i'll have to scroll through all of our options because I think fringy said he wants to be on
That one as well
That would be four already, but there's no reason why we can't make a party out of it. We could even have the dreaded five
the five
This one just says rip. I think because the stream died. That's where we're at right now
Uh re porn songs brazas presents a step apart
a step apart. All right
all right, so
You got a banana the armored titan and master splinter fuck mary kill
A banana
The armored master splinter and the armored titan
Yes, what's that? I guess that's something from uh, the tackle titan. I don't know the armored titan
Oh, it is a it is a attack on titan thing. Yeah, um, so fuck mary kill a banana
master splinter
Oh, so it's kill the armored titan
Let's fuck the banana and marry master splinter. No, let's uh, fuck master splinter marry the banana
I don't know. I don't think I think I'd mind marrying master splinter. He's probably got some interesting advice
Well, here's the thing
I just I don't know if him living down in the sewer there with his adopted turtle children
Is gonna be I don't know if that's something that I can stick with for that long
But that banana even if we have a successful marriage, it'll only last for what a few days before it just goes bad
So I there's not a lot of commitment there if you marry the banana
Why did they why would these three the options such a bizarre selection but all right
Uh, have you guys heard of warframe? Yes. Yeah, I have
Disregarding the gameplay the frames themselves are pretty cool. They have profile videos for each one on youtube
awesome
Yeah, I uh, I probably played it for about 80 hours or so, but I just uh
Get out of it found it really repetitive
Didn't find it too engaging after a while couldn't hold my attention
I see why people like it. I definitely see why people like it. They're really not my thing
Master splinter is good rat though rags. What the fuck?
He is good rat. That's why I'd fuck him. Wait. Oh, yeah, you did choose to do that. Oh fair enough. Yeah, fuck him
Uh, good day rags good day
This one just says it's alive
Which yeah
Reason human intercourse killed the stream in cells rise up
Uh, do you lose super chats from dead streams as far as I know we don't I would uh dead streams as well. Do you just mean
The ones that get deleted or the ones that just get kicked offline because um, the ones that get kicked offline
I think are absolutely fine. The ones that get deleted. I'm not actually sure
Because i'll find out one day good yang was obviously a shy comm shy comm
uh infiltrator
Very well chinese communist infiltrator
Why because he's chinese, I guess so
Is he is that what he is? He's chinese. I don't know
I don't know. He's asian something. I don't know. I can't tell him apart. I know
I just can't tell him apart
Wow, rationalizer. I know a terrible person. I don't know. I know
I don't have a problem with length in general quote from longman. Yeah, you know, I stand by yeah
Uh checks out
Kick mooper he didn't like interstellar
Space marines are not beyond spartan spartans can punch with 10 plus metric tons of force in my experience space marines are not really above that
Wow, uh, I don't know about that mate
Neither do I like literally don't know about that
Don't do death battles. I will go bankrupt the bankrupt. I mean
I doubt we would would actually do it would have to be on like topics. We would be very familiar with
all bringing people on for it and then
Um, I don't even know how long it would go or how we would do a point system or how like a decision would be made
There's so much to consider
Favorite angel episode 5 14 much love to you all
5 14 it might be depending on what 5 14 is
Oh, that's an excellent choice
I can totally see why you would choose it but mine is a draw between a hole in the world and not fade away
followed swiftly by smile time
Good choices though. Uh, finally my first live efap. Here's a fiver. Hi rags. Oh, hello and thanks
Armoured piercing rounds can't scratch spartan armor shields withstand close proximity detonations of wraith blasts which vaporize in a 20 meter radius
Um
Other
The spartan armor it can only just it just the energy thing
withstands x amount of just force in general i'm assuming and then
The armor itself can get knocked out with one shot from
Don't even the pistols kill you in one shot to the head. The pistols kill you in one shot to the head. Yeah
Yeah
I don't know. Yeah, uh, sure the shields can withstand quite a bit. But once you get them down the spartan is not gonna take much longer to kill
Assuming you have a weapon that can pierce their uh, their flupal dingus
How did you not know about yellow stone rags?
I didn't know it was such an incredible danger to mankind. I thought it was a place people went and looked at the geyser
That is actually strange I would have thought that you uh, you'd know about it
I guess more so than I would like I thought you'd have more
I've known from several bits of media and education that yellowstone's terrifying
um, and it's just strange the rags knew it as a park rather than anything that was like a
super booper
Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean it's
It's a beautiful uh state
What is it national park? It's national park. It's like usm. Yeah, it's one of the most famous in the country
Uh, hey, man, did you see my tweet linking the mist memes I mentioned last efap no rush or obligation to showcase?
Of course, just hype fury action. I think i've got them now. They're in my listing. We've got quite a number. Uh, in fact
Rags and I can do
probably a video
Mini
Soon we've got enough to probably make a good hour out of it at least
Maybe we'll drag jay in metal for it as well. I don't know
Fun times ahead rags. I found your channel two years ago and have love you
Oh, i'm glad thanks molar. I found out about your channel one year ago. Love you as well. Oh, that's that's very nice
I'm glad you're enjoying it
I found efap two weeks ago. Thank god
uh
Yeah, that must be interesting if you're a big fan of us too, and then you just found out we did like 70 plus episodes of this
You're like this whole time
Yeah, hundreds of hours of content. What is it a month now?
I was gonna say like i've definitely mentioned efap a couple times in my videos upwards of a year ago, I think
Um, I think rags as well. So
Yeah
Uh, my mom passed away unexpectedly recently and efap has been a friendly voice in a hard time
Thank you for everything much love from clock
Oh, thanks very much. I'm glad it's helping out. Yeah, sorry. Sorry to hear that
But uh glad we can be a bit of a bit of company, I suppose
Uh halo is one of my favorite game series of all time
So I don't want to be the one to say it but warhammer probably solos the entire halo universe
Yeah, yeah, they're just so different and they're made for just different things about that
Uh, hey guys, sorry to put you on the spot, but I really need an ooh ooh
ooh ooh
There you go
40k is meant to be overpowered hail the emperor
Well, yeah, it seems it seems that way because they they seem pretty fucking powerful
They are pretty powerful
Gray knights from warhammer 40k would wipe the floor with all super soldiers. Ask arch warhammer also also high regs
Hello
And yeah possibly true I mean book mobile infantry level movement for lok
A
Lock
Spartan lock. Oh
Yes
It's from malo four and five or whatever
Uh
MC beats dg not only because of better arsenal
But also got energy sword and the bfg won't work on master chief because it's effective against demons
I don't think that's how that works like
It won't work against demons no, it won't work against master chief because it's effective against demons
I feel like stuff that's effective against demons might work pretty well on master chief. You don't know
Not the sword no the bfg
Why
What so he's saying it only works against demons
Well, this is the weird line of logic
The bfg will not work on master chief because it's effective against demons as if to imply it is not effective against anything else
I fear it's effective of
To anything standing in the way
Pretty much seems very non-discriminatory
Uh
Also, someone asked is it the internet? No, it's my internet's fine. I don't know what to do. Um,
Every time it disconnects i'm easily talking to rags and glib here. Nothing's wrong
Just being an ass. I believe it's something to do with youtube's or something to do with ovs, but i'm not really bothered about which
Um
Because I don't know the fucking answer anyway, like it just doesn't nothing I can do
Um
Was I
Um the muslim extremists have been calling for an for a nerf to the a10 for so long
But the us doesn't want to upset its pilots as it is their main audience
Yeah, I don't think we're gonna rebalance that
Mola, would you be interested in narrating our next documentary? If so, how do we get in touch with you?
Or you can just reach out to us if interested
Uh for echo-based network
Oh, I don't know because um
I would have to you know, depending on how long it is
I'd want to obviously record you and edit you up some good audio and I would I would feel while working on that
that I should be working on
Anything else if you know what I mean like to do with either ethab or my main work
I don't know. Uh
Let me think about it or you know, I can uh, if you contact my emails attached to my about page, um
And i'll uh, i'll keep i'll keep a note to look out for it because I get a lot of emails that are like
I need to sort that out like filter wise
But i'll try and look out for it and then um
Maybe get some more details about how it would work and I would I would think about it. I'm not sure
But uh, thanks for the offer though. It's very um, very kind
Uh
SMs are fast, but not enough to avoid having a gun trained on them from a distance
Also, Spartans can use thrusters to get to cover to recharge
I don't think they'll have a chance to recharge
Like these are all desperation-y things sounds to me. Yeah
Yeah, space marines are very fast
I don't I don't think that that's accurate. I think they need to read more space marine books
I think you need to read more space marine books
You don't even know actually
Actually space marines are way better than Spartans because they have big big pauldrons
Uh sargon, what's your favorite movie and what is best movie I will save that one also, uh
Blame the controller said went back and watched the whole video from earlier and the guy got so much wrong
No understanding of battle tactics weapons armor and other stuff
Yeah, well, that's just uh
We get that it's just like your opinion bro
Yeah, yeah, we felt similar opinions are equally valid
Uh old nando is at it again with another saving a movie take this time
He says ben surviving ros hunting down surviving first order members while ray goes to recruit broom boy improves the ending
Oh
Oh
Is that what he says hunting down surviving first order members? That doesn't sound
Christ
That doesn't sound like he's changed too much. No
He just swaps sides. Oh, and could you imagine her walking up to broom boy and being like it's time to train
I'd be like, oh my god
You left me here to live as a slave. Yes, but now the plot calls for you, sir. You're important
All right, so you don't want to go it's like I do but
Still damn
Still I don't really like you. Just say yeah
It's kind of embarrassing because broom boy would probably be a better protagonist than ray at the end of the day
Absolutely. Yeah, I'd agree with that. I believe it 100 percent
Rags ghosts of onyx was great. It's followed by karen. Everything I touched turns to shit. Travis is a bombing is an abomination
Don't read it no matter what
I won't then
Uh, the first three halo books, right? Um, what is it fall of reach?
And the harvest one those are pretty uh, actually first the first three are first strike the flood and the fall of reach
Yeah, yeah, those are good. I suggest those
And if you're like, uh, reverse what I said
Yeah, exactly first strike is last
first strike
Yeah, somebody mentioned earlier about how onyx wasn't important strategically or something and i'm pretty sure that the narrative is that
harvest falls first and then reaches like the last fall before the beginning of halo
And uh because of the way that they structured these stories it really makes a nice prequel to the original halo
Which is what I think expanded universe material. Well, the flood is halo
Yeah, the flood is halo that's right i'm sorry i'm a little dusty for it
The first book is pretty much a prequel to halo goes into training a lot more his childhood and all that stuff
Right. Yeah, the flood is basically halo the game as a novel and it's the best of the three
Then first strike tells more about stuff that happened
Yeah with like other Spartans and stuff, right?
Mm-hmm
Okay, just making sure cool
Which star wars battle droid would make the best lover?
Um, are you a top or a bottom?
I suppose you could answer for both
I don't know. I feel like versatility is a big part of it
You know, do you do like big buff super soldiers or do you like slim and slender?
We're out of droideka or just getting involved in that rolling around. I don't know
What do you what are you some kind of fetishist?
Maybe weirdo is it is it really?
It's it's I don't think shame
Obviously r2d2 is number one waifu everybody else just can't measure up
What about those magna guards, what about the magna guards, they know their way around
Yeah, they're pretty sexy
Yeah, they can handle a shaft. Yeah
I suppose that'll be uh, that'll be our one to go for
Uh onyx was forerunner shield world two astronomical units wide which had 61.5 quintillion drones guarding it
But was seen as an as insignificant
I mean I read these out and I don't even know what they mean. So i'm just like all right
That's a lot
Go some onyx, uh planet sized for runner megastructure
Uh, yeah, I don't I don't I just don't know anything about
I maybe this is a later halo or too early
Apparently humans are lived there they colonize in 2149
Isn't that isn't that from the book that came after first strike ghost of onyx?
Is that the fourth one that they released? I think so the one that um, eric nylander wrote but that says this is from 2006
Huh, I want to say I recommend this or I recognize this cover
Yeah, yeah, I know what I think the cover has like a sergeant johnson lookalike on it or something
And then uh another spartan with some submachine gun or something. I don't know
But uh, I didn't it didn't I wasn't interested in it when I opened it up at the bookstore
On a scale of one to ten, where would you rank empire?
A
Pretty high, um, I think a safe eight for me
Yeah, i'm gonna go eight. I was kind of thinking something along lines gives us a it's still a good respectable number
But gives us wiggle for the really really good stuff out there the prestigious and stuff
Yeah, that's fair
8.5 maybe
Maybe if I watched it again and was able to really conclude on it, maybe
Every time I watch empire or new hope there's a moment where I just smile and I and I go wow
This there's something going on here. That's really amazing
Um, yes, sir. I would say the prestige does the same thing as well, but that seems to be operating on a much more like
Complex cinematic level than the star wars movies. It's like a steak compared to a burger maybe
Yeah, that's why steaks are better than burgers
Yeah, so eight eight point five. I agree with that
um
Just in case you missed it in 1848 finnier's gage had a meter long iron rod shot through his skull and lived for another 12
Years, so I guess it's possible to survive getting shot in the face
Yep. Yeah, it is. It is definitely possible
And uh, yeah, we did uh read it out before but it is fascinating nonetheless
Uh, I hate the hobbit movies, but damn it i'm listening to a celtic woman version of I see fire and I recommend to everyone
I don't um
I guess I kind of hate the third hobbit movie to a bit of a degree
But the first two like I don't hate them. I'm just like fine. I guess like I don't have any hatred for them
I don't have any I don't dislike them or anything. They're fine. I kind of dislike them
Got a bit of dislike going for me
I really don't
And I don't like them because they don't have love the same feeling to them
That's the thing
Yeah, we can't make uh, you're you're roboting really bad
Oh
I retract my criticism glib your explanation regarding the dark saber is great and now I I now agree with you
Also, hi ragon maul. Hello
Hi
Tuesday or not there better be an efab this saturday best part of my week. Also, hi wags
Hello, i'll release something on saturday something of some kind to do with efap possibly infinite isms. We could do that on saturday. I suppose
I'll gladly platonically kiss you all if you do an efap movies for ryhu kitamura's verses
It's so over the top low budget and god tier stupid action
I will make a note. We got so many so many so many things for uh
efap movies, honestly
So many recommendations for movies
Forgot it was your birthday rags. Happy birthday. Good doggo. Oh, thank you very much
Uh, hi rags and crew give anime a chance look up mexican robot from g gundam
Give anime a chance. I mean there's some anime I really like it's okay. Yeah, I sure yeah
I like
Morla, could you do an unbridled praise of joker?
That's what I want to do after I do tfa part three, which is currently being worked on
So, yes, uh, the other guy is wrong. I also poop with the door open and suggest others should do it as well. Oh
Rags the poop in with the door open and people are spreading
Well, what they can do is they can poop with their door open in the comfort of their own homes
And they don't have to tell me about it true
Apple b waiter man cameo when
Well, he's had his cameo. It was uh, more than a cameo
This is a question for all of you
If you could have a strong influence over or a guarantee and quality of a video game ip made into a movie trilogy
What would it be mine would be warframe?
Oh, I could really go for bio shock like three
Sort of yeah films all about bio shock
I'd say bio shock
Dead space yep, that'd be another one
Um
Mass effect would be another good contender
Hmm
That's a really good question, uh vermin tide
You can do 40k
You
You could do one, yeah, sure. Um
GTFO would probably be interesting as a movie
Let me see
I'd like to do the original deus ex that'd be cool
Oh, uh max pain, oh that would be amazing. Yeah
Um
Garfield kart, obviously
What about a show about
Adaptation of the simpsons hit and run where it's like a show but with that family from that game
And they like live in a little world like a town like 20 minute episodes at a time. Maybe
Sounds good to me. Can I how about a call of duty? Uh
movie
I'm sure that would be so great
Yeah, uh the evil within potentially
I don't know about that. I don't I mean
Whatever ended up being great about an evil within movie. I feel like the game wouldn't really have been the reason for it
There's a lot you'd have to change I guess but yeah lots of uh
Wrong answers for that one
Oh, you know what I would do. Sorry just as a final one, uh mary's edge
That'd be good
Metro
Definitely metro
Uh, what about uh, um
Uh, i'm trying to think of it
The problem is that
Soma would make a really good one, but the game is already so perfect
It's not necessary. Yeah, but it could be cool just to have it in another medium
Um
I downloaded the bioshock collection on ps4 since it was a part of february ps. Plus. Are they good?
What are the big problems with infinite? Oh
Oh boy, watch matthew mitosis video on it. He nails it. Yeah, and uh,
everything wrong with that fucking abysmal game
Bioshock one is awesome bit clunky and the ai isn't fantastic and neither is the
A big thing about bioshock one in terms of a flaw is like the enemies
Barely even seem to tell that they're being shot by you
Um when you shoot them
It's kind of
It can it can take you out a little bit, but I would say these are sort of things that are
Compared to the pros of that game
Aren't too significant. Bioshock two
Cleans up a lot of the mechanics in really awesome ways
Uh, but its story suffers because bioshock one story is fucking cool
Yeah, the the story isn't as good in bioshock two, but mechanically it's better and you've got more options
It's better to play
Agree but both of them really nail environments excellent. I love rapture. It's a really cool place. You're super fucking interesting
I would love to go back to rapture
For a good game. Yes, please and then infinite like we said, i'm not even there's not even a point
Just go watch matthew mitosis video. He fucking rips that game apart
In a really good way bioshock
Bioshock would be really great if they had like an actual remaster for it that took all the clunk away
Um spartans jumped feet first into hell 40k space marines were born in hell
ODSTs here you go
Gameplay is not valid to halo lore spartan armor basically immune to small arms fire. I don't think you can say that
Like surely these things are going to be restricted to their in-game mechanics, too
Part of what makes the conversation interesting is to be like we know how this works because of this
Like just because you just because it makes your candidate weaker you can't just discount the mechanics of the game it's like no
Uh, the toxic brood must now bear sargon's curse
Yeah
For a bit. Hopefully not till next stream
We're gonna cleanse that cure and cure that curse
No more will sargon be cursed
revving battlefield three medic sounds
I don't want to make it that
Who's managing this train wreck chain that train wreck kill j?
Um, yeah j. I was gonna say it's not my fault. It's definitely j's
Rice the fap triple the length
Here's man
Uh gray knights would wipe the floor of any super soldiers laughs in custodis
custodis
custodis
custodis
Yeah, they're the the adeptus custods or custodies or whatever. They're the protectors of the emperor and they're like super special space marines
custods
Master chief is a gary stew debate me
Will you post all three parts please happy birthday wags
Oh, thank you
Yeah, so i'll post part one on its own pretty pretty soon after like probably tomorrow early
And then the next ones will come a little bit later after i've stitched them in vegas because they're in two pieces now
Um
Forerunners would be a foe only the krons could fight everyone else dies
Serious precursors also make both look like cavemen. They shaped universes
Okay
Well, there you go
Shaped universe is neat. What's your favorite humunculi in fma brotherhood?
Also, hello. My niga er is you know, I think they were trying to say something with that
friends
Favorite humunculi probably I really like pride
uh
Who's creepy as hell, but it was a nice reveal as well of where he was and so yeah
It's been so long since i've uh seen it. I I need to read
I need to I really do need to rewatch it because it's been ages and I only believe I read the mangas
And a lot of it and I don't think I got to the end. So I I do need to go back and I need to
Let's watch them. All right. We need to watch them. Wait, so you had watched it or not?
I've only seen a few episodes, but i'm much more familiar with the manga the manga
Um, i've read a bunch of them
Um
One thing
Yeah, I uh
I don't know. I just I i'm operate operating too much off of a member
I need to see it again
I really like wrath and obviously envy envy. I feel like gets a benefit from being in so much of it
Uh, but then the problem becomes that like lust was pretty damn awesome, too
And uh
I guess
Reed and gluttony weren't that interesting to me compared to the others
Um, yeah good good. It was good stuff. It was just really cool
Overall, I like them all I guess if I really had to pick a favorite
Probably wrath. I just really like the guy in the series cool. Um
Spartans are also fast. They can run at an 80 to 90 miles per hour and even flat out fly for a limited time nowadays
fly
How can they fly
Is it because they have really hot?
They're oh, I thought they were saying like without technology there
Oh, no, that sounds ridiculous, but you know, what's funny is that
Spartans work for the unsc and so they're technically space marines, aren't they?
I guess so united nation space command and he's a
Master chief as a naval designation
Uh, maybe not
Uh, would you dump out it
Sorry, I was just gonna say it's kind of getting old the halo versus 40k
All I know at this point is that there are passionate people on both sides that have good arguments
But at the same time it's like I favor 40k. So I I can't hear anything heretical
Uh, would you dump out a warm beer and get a new one or just down the warm one to get it over with asking for a friend?
Don't waste the beer I wouldn't be drinking beer so I can't even ask the question
You don't drink beer I if I have a preference to drink something else alcoholic i'll take it
Beer is like the last thing I would drink
Nah good enough
But um rags, what about you?
I prefer drink
No
No, would you would you waste a bottle of beer that went warm or would you down it before getting a new one?
I'd probably drink it
I think i'd feel bad about wasting it
But generally I drink kind of quick
Because I like them when they're cold
So rags, how do you think warframes compare to space marines with their arsenal and varied abilities keep in mind exalted weapons
Ex scallop is blade for example
I don't know. I just I just feel like 40k space marines would just make mincemeat out of them with all the stuff
They have at their disposal and the power that they have and the arm that they have
did the the gene seed of their construction and their training and I just think it's
Uh, I just don't think warframes could do it. What's a warframe gonna do against a librarian?
Or a chaplain
I don't know
Just feel like as if you should not compare yourself to a 40k space marine
Because you're on the losing side already, huh
Yeah, why why are you trying to compete with with something that's goes out of its way to be over the top like that?
Yeah, it's just an over the top universe like it's a zone it's its own thing out there don't don't try
Rag cold protocol and contact harvest also very good
Yeah, I've heard some of those heard of some of those
Sirloin medium well is objectively best steak
We find that man and I'm going to dispose of him for his heresy my god
Not supposed to eat meat. Well done, sir
I don't know who out of the three of us this could possibly be directed at but the next one says who's a good boy
Rags is a good boy. Oh, I am a good boy
Monster hunter has a tv series structured similar to pokemon
Uh, maybe before you make that work
There's already a metro movie awesome there's already a retro there's always I think there already is a metro movie in russian
Interesting I have not heard of it
Me neither sounds good
Uh gameplay means you die to water. It's never used because it's designed to create a balanced game and not a law-based game
It is non-canon to halo
Gameplay means you die to water
You mean like when you get thrown out of a map water you die
Like it's outside the map. Yeah, but that doesn't stop you from that doesn't then mean everything that happens in the game
Is non-canonical, right?
I don't know. It's weird to say. I don't know
I just don't know up the top of me head
Now the precursors turned into the flood from decay
Oh my
And that
Uh, it's medium. Well, you fucking net beard soy hack. Oh my god
No, no, it's it's rare at somewhere that is
Predisposed to medium or well done and at a proper steakhouse
You usually want to go medium rare because their medium is usually pinker
That's the what is it? I can't even say it patrician way of doing it
Hmm
All right, it means we're over to streamlabs
Uh
Moobles you should use the star wars imperial siren noise in more videos when pointing out huge plot holes. It's just fantastic
It is a fantastic noise. I'm
Very alarming where I would use it exactly like every time I hit a plot hole you're gonna be hearing that a lot, you know
The norwegian military has adopted co-ed quarters. Not sure about showers though. The results are amazing sexual harassment is down camaraderie is up
Cool
Hello all my alpharids won't be able to stick around for the whole live stream this time
But I will leave my clone to watch and catch up later on moolah
Love all you massives. Keep up the objectively good wick also high rags and high glib who just joined
Hello
to
Hello there
Morley, please watch seven cahas seven boxes. I just want to get your opinion on a movie from my country
Love you for happening content every day. It helps with work. Hola rags
Hola, I can make a note, but no promises. I've got loads of other movies. I gotta watch. Unfortunately, unfortunately depends on your prv
Um, hello rags
Hello
German navy officer here. We had conscription until 2011
I can tell you that we had the stupidest people forced to serve you possibly imagine
Nowadays, we get a lot more skilled volunteers given stupid people assault rifles is scary
Giving stupid people assault rifles is scary
Yeah, that's the thing we just kind of highlight and there are pros and cons and that is one of the more obvious ones
We could probably think of right like when you can script people you can end up with some tisms
Yeah
There is a great lindy beige video about who is able to shoot to kill
Turns out it is sociopaths and older siblings also people who are trained to reflex shoot
Like we train people today. It's part of the reason why ptsd is so prominent today
Two in the chest for center matter and then one in the head the mosan beak
No a thousand in the head. That's the best way
Sure the zombie way
Um bayouin I have some mad evil schemes for me memes. I need a champion of the pencil and paint
Help me bayouin. You're my only hope email me at lethal 10 at gmx.com someone looking for a
Some commissions perhaps bayouin. Um, also person who asked that you can probably find bayouin on. Uh,
I don't know if has bayouin been banned from twitter?
I don't know. I think you did get banned. I can't remember now
But uh, yeah, uh
The guys looking to contact you bayouin lethal 10 at gmx.com
Uh, is wags the name of the child of wolf and rags or would that be or that child named be rolf?
Rolf
Hello ed boys
Many daughters, yes
and uh
Rags you're the good boy. Happy birthday. Oh, thank you
I know right ray walks with broom boy into the sunset and in a post credit scene kylo stops a first officer
Fist order officer from killing himself saying it's time to make things right. It's like poetry because it sucks balls
I mean
Stops a first order officer from killing himself
Okay, uh
Yeah, I mean we saw his joker video, uh the guy who corrects films and it was um, it was weird
It was weird I give it the old thumbs down
I'll give it the old sad face
All right
which puts us
To me, uh back on we're back on to overflow rags. Here we are
You did it back into?
And i've got I saved some from the last time I was doing I think it was from the super chat catch-up three
So continuity wise you need to see that before seeing this
but
That's that's where we want to keep up with the super advanced lore. Mm-hmm
Uh, but yeah, these ones were saved. So okay fine rags. You've convinced me. I will poop with the door open just for you
I
Mean you're the one who has to live with it. Really?
They may have you tried taking your pants off when you poop. I don't wear pants
Well, and I don't know if that applies to you
Hmm, but I highly suggest doing it without your pants. Also, apparently bayouin can be found on gab
person who sent the uh
the missar
find bayouin on gab
Uh, this one just says high rags
Hello, hello again wags and other unimportance
Hi, yeah, hi rags
Hello, also. Hi rags
Hello. Hi rags
Hello
Uh, hi rag
galalesce
Hmm hello. Hello. Hello. Also. Hi rags. Oh, hi. AR pistols are fun
Haven't had one haven't haven't had one or shot one
But I like the uh
Sorry, I was just gonna say I like that you have the arm brace thing so you can get an spr
Those are a little bit better than the air pistols
Uh
Pertaining to the open door poopage question from a purely pragmatic standpoint
I prefer to close my door so the smell doesn't waft into the rest of my house. I have no particular hangups. Otherwise
Rags let poop with the space door open
I will never open the space door when I poo
Long man, please tell rags. Hail fire droids are objectively good. I don't know. They just seem like a strange design
And uh rags who is your least favorite content creator on youtube?
Oh, I don't know
I I don't know
um
Monday and matt
No, I mean he's up there. I suppose
Yeah, monday and matt, uh
creature taxon
I mean they're all up there, you know all the all the all the ones who cheat and lie and steal and all that
Probably wouldn't surprise you any of my answers
Uh, oh I have an answer for that my least favorite would be onision right now
That's a good ball by jay's yeah, he's uh followed by jay station
Yeah, onision he sounds a good pick
So i've got timestamps here i'm just gonna listen to him quick because the efap ones
I want to see what what's this about that sequel to a harry potter prequel that people weren't really that into
It probably would have done to the I I fucking forgot there were even harry potter movies
I'm pretty sure there are there are some die-hard fans of uh, fantastic beasts by the way someone in chat is like
When are you gonna review taxon's video and i'm my first thought is why why would you do that at this point?
Yeah, um, so in efap one
I say i'm pretty sure there are some passionate fans of
Fantastic fantastic beasts out there and then
All the way over to efap 59
where we cover
Good old jensen gen gen gen and genickelen's. Um, I think you'll remember the fabled quote that she delivered ranks
Which one are we which fabled quote are we talking about here the one in relation to fantastic beasts
Oh, but the dancing she like she she sure does like those fantastic beasts I guess didn't fit
She seems to have a very childlike sense of wonder when it comes to films
Like eddie redmane in the fantastic beast movies. Sorry, I can't stop coming for the fantastic beast movies
Yeah, she can't stop coming for the fantastic beast movie. Oh, man. I saw a fantastic beast movie. I
Fuck I came for that as well
I wasn't disappointed
That was that beast was fantastic
And then I had three i've saved for mr. Shadowversity. I've seriously got so many shadowversity questions. This is
This downright criminal
Um, hi racks
Hi, do you speak for the doggos?
Well
I speak only for this doggo
Um, hi molar i've been with efap from the start and I love it. Have you watched avatar the last year bender the show yet?
Have I watched all three seasons of avatar the last year bender yet? No, I have not
No, I lost. Uh, have you watched the porn parody avatar the last bear ender?
Oh
You could have said cock bender
No, no
No bear ender is so much better you're like b-a-r-e bear ender
Is so much better
Um
But rags wisp can open a portal to the sun as an attack limbo can put himself in a rift dimension and avoid damage and others
to bfl them
For what to bfl them
Defriend them
Wisp can open a portal to the sun as an attack
Who is who is wisp and limbo?
Um
Oh, are these warframes? Oh, maybe yeah. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah
I mean some of you have if you have a space brain who's a psyker then what then?
I don't know
Uh at the end of empire doesn't vader talk to luke through the force
I mean it's it's not very uh explicit as that
It's like they call out to each other at the same time. They can feel each other through the force or some shit like there's no
like
Hey, luke, you should come back home. He's like, I don't wanna something like that
The it's not as like I said, it's not as explicit as they make it be in um, the last jedi
It also happens like where they're very close to each other and the last jedi
I think they do it like miles and miles apart, right like light years very far apart
And and we already knew that people could sense each other through the force i'm fine with that
And someone who's like father and son near each other
It makes patrick actually
Makes this point in his video and this is part of my response on it. I don't really want to spoil it
but
um
The idea that that could happen like oh these people can talk to each other using the force kind of negates everything the pt
Where they needed to communicate with each other and they had trouble getting the signal to specific planets and true so many moments
Where that would have been and I also felt like that was between relatives like they have a spiritual connection and they're also father-son
Yeah
Sister there's nobody outside the family. We'll see and that's why I do take a small issue with how like
Did vader not sense anything about leah the entire time she was with him in a new hope it's like
I don't know
A little bit of flizzum there
Uh cosmic chicken is the one true god. I googled it that makes sense
Well, there you go
Another great gedel quote would be comparing two completely different situations and asking how is this any different?
I think it did make something like that
Because this uh, these these super chats are from narrows videos. This is wolf part one stream. That's that's how much we've caught up
We're getting there
Narrows videos are usually really good. This one was really disappointing to see from him. Go watch his video game reviews instead and good luck wolf
Yeah, yeah, i've been told he makes good stuff and that that one wasn't too great
Um rags mayo blast my salami socket. It's deli time and the first slice is free
Oh boy. Well, let's load ourselves up and take a trip to flavor town
Ray
Ray rule 34 is half bad. I googled it
Okay, it is half bad
All right. Well, I hope you enjoyed the other half then
How did kylo beat ray to crate?
I
Don't know that's actually a very good question
I guess she was flying around crate getting lost for a while before she decided to
Jump scare them all into saving while saving their lives
Like suddenly falcon
Oh the problems it's been years and we're still thinking about new problems
They use tlj to teach I was thinking. Yeah, that's the curse of tlj
They use tlj to teach how to not do a screenplay as they should
I thought at the end of tlj the kids were telling luke's stories from the ot not the battle with kylo
so they have um little like
Toys to represent the 8080s and then they just stand him in front of them. Um
I mean, I don't think there's anything more definitive than that in terms of they were sharing his story from the end of tlj
I don't think i've ever heard that argument from any tlj defending people like they've always said that that's the story that's spreading
Rag congrats on finally agreeing to poop face to face with that one guy with the door open, but it was kind of creepy
I probably shouldn't have googled it
You know, I don't remember ever saying that might be an imposter. Mm-hmm
I want bush wars a jab story hilary is an evil emperor and george w is his sidekick
Jeb must defeat them with his dad's force ghost and also teams up with a purple haired trump on a on a desert planet
Pit player trump
Uh, yeah, i'd watch it
Why are you talking about star wars or a tar wars star wars is coming out. I googled it
Oh my god, I forgot about all the googled it things you were so smug with that like
You could survive it out of space. I googled it. It was like let's check your article buddy
Zach gilbert in chat says you already read these on a previous stream. Do you know what that would be?
Well, I usually delete these as I go so i'd be surprised if i'd read them already but
Maybe I just I just wanted to bring that to your attention. I know I don't remember
Um, some of these might sound similar to other super chats
but um
Already then I don't like this is the thing it's kind of hard for me to tell but like I said I delete
The as I as I read them so and then I save so i'd be surprised if i've uh
reread them or maybe I pasted extras when I didn't mean to but um
Someone said they haven't heard these before and they're 100 up to date on their efapping. So
What there you go. I'll try and keep it in mind as i'm reading more of these
um
What are the movie? Can you think of where an actor says what hamel said about his character in tlj?
Jake skywalker. I disagree with every choice made
Um, the people on game of thrones season eight
They seem to be relatively close to a degree. Yeah
You could tell there's some uh, I mean it drove one of them to cry and drink
Yeah
Uh luke killed millions on the death star
I'm assuming we would have covered that kind of earlier technically in this
Take a look at who directed episode four of mando. I already know who did it was ron howard's daughter
The star of jurassic world
And a lot of people are blaming him how bad episode four is and I don't know that that's entirely fair because mandalorian
Is the season suffers in lots of ways
Like I wouldn't blame an individual director of an individual episode
Um, but episode four is probably the worst one. So I will say that
If there was any tv series that needed a single director to do the whole series, it was the mandalorian
They really needed a singular vision for something
And they botched it by what episode three
Well, I mean I felt that way a lot of people don't feel that way
I mean, I understand that there's tismy elements of episode one, but that you know that uh
Convinced me that it was worth looking at the next I mean
I guess I would happily say four is the one where everything's fucked in terms of just uh,
the
Because we get a full idea of mando being an idiot
uh
The the fobs and how they work seems to be really stupid
That's all kind of the the whole season looks there's just so many things
I don't want to get into that right now because it's so
I know you you guys have you've already been over and all that. Um
What was that? Dang, I just want to say one thing about this
um
Fuck never mind carry on
Oh
Obi-Wan talked mole to death
Um, I mean he kind of he did a different thing that kind of killed mole, but you know
If you want to call out talking him to death fine
That's why he said hello there to grievous and he just yep hello there
Please someone animate rags punching his son rag
Oh, no, I would never punch my son rag
I'm the clorax. I speak for the bleach and the bleach says drink me for sweet release
Oh
Also molar rags, what are your legit least favorite things about each other?
Um
Uh
It's fucking keyhole ass nose
Oh, he's staring at me his male gaze that he tries to hide with his sunglasses
That's what the glasses are for
I see him staring
Yeah, you I can see out but you can't see in
But through them I see
so much
He's all he's at all the women's
Much as I want all of them and tip the tail
You read this before you read it again black cat, oh no woman in red dress you read this before
I did not
I did not grievous died for our sins
um
I guess so praise grievous
Grievous was a good one. He was one of the good ones. He was one of the good men
Have a good eve apple. I watch the rest later when it goes up on mula
I'm going to get some good rat now if you know what I mean also high regs
Hmm. Hello
It's not about realism or being realistic. It's about being believable
And what helps believability more than being consistent
Yeah, boy
Yeah
Infamy gained in the face of standing for what is righteous is not infamy at all. It is glory
marcus tulia cicerow
Neat yeah
Rags has a bad case of the male gaze
I get it
Yes, I do rags you pooping with the door open cured my meth addiction and saved my fat gay marriage
Thank you rags. Your generosity knows no bounds or privacy. Oh, that's fantastic
I'm glad to hear that my male gaze could be that for you. Mm-hmm
I recognize that disney has made a decision but considering it's a stupid decision. I've elected to ignore it. I know that reference
But I mean we can't we didn't ignore the st did we like oh my god, look at that thing
Yeah, that's um, that's avengers that goes that goes way back
I feel like i'm ignoring rag. Hi rags wags. Hello
I still dislike that 2d clone wars was decanonized. It had far better continuity than clone wars and it had far better general grievous
That doesn't surprise me
yeah, but
At this point cannon doesn't really matter. You can still enjoy it and just
navigate it with your own head cannon because in the hands of disney, it's like
giving your kid to a
Hostage taker or something like that some sort of terrorist that's going to raise your kid. Mm-hmm
so just enjoy the clone wars that you know
and uh
Man, there's there's almost nothing better than that mace windu. Uh
Versus droid scene. I don't care what people say. It's over the top
Rags when we can can we expect you'll through the wall video?
Through the wall, yeah
Uh, let me give that a google
Give it a giggle is that is that because those dogs?
Uh, through the wall a book by carolyn course soren
Wow
I don't know never heard of it
Let's see. Um
The creepiest best-selling psychological that's uh
Let's see now a sunday blah blah blah
um
Stylist lexie's got the perfect life and someone else wants it. Lexi loves her home
She feels safe and secure in it and loved thanks to her boyfriend tom
But recently some things not been quite right. I know
Yeah, um a book out of place a wardrobe door left open a set of keys going missing
Tom thinks lexie's going mad, but then he's away more often than he's at home anyway, so he wouldn't understand
Because lexie isn't losing it. She knows there's someone out there watching her and deep down
She knows there's nothing she can do to make them stop a compelling heart racing thriller
That will have you looking over your shoulder long after you turn the last page the perfect read for fans of louis
candelish and adelay parks
So, when are you making your video on that?
Um
Stand by and I will a tbd
DVD all right. Yeah to to be
determined
Hi, i'm sure you heard you say on efap that treasure planet is a good film
Could you explain why if so, I had the impression that people think it's bad
I can't even remember most of it to be able to make that argument
But
The final
Treasure planet like takeaway was that it was a missed opportunity that it didn't capitalize enough and didn't have it's animated one
I guess
What I thought I thought it's beloved
By like I don't actually know what the general perspective on that film is I don't know
Yeah, i've never heard anyone say that it's anything other than
amazing
I've heard a lot of people
Like that either don't know about it or don't like remember it as well as other disney movies
Um, it's been a long time since I saw it
You can watch it sometime
Uh george put references to the eu in prequel release, so
Uh fair enough are they saying like it must be canon at that point because I mean
Well, you know if they're just references doesn't mean necessarily anything more substantive than the other thing
If it was decanonized, but as glib said you may as well just think to yourself
What is and isn't canon at this point because disney are ruining any sense of what canon means?
Um, it's by timothy zahn by the way the wall thing or
Uh
Sorry, let me read these in order. Hey guys, if any of you listen to the throrn audiobook, it's so good
I just listened to it all and if you like star wars the good star wars
Definitely listen to it when you have the time
I only ever hear good things about um
About the throrn trilogy and yeah, that is timothy zahn
But no, I have not experienced it
Earth defense force is basically a starship trooper game. It's very janky, but very fun edf edf
again
I have heard it's rather amusing if not very fun
Don't know if my first super chat went through but the gist was love you massive sincerely first name surname
uh
a junked professor of jared law tonal tech
Are you one of the founders of the intellectual gaming community
Me no fabulous
E uh
Eu was canon to the point that coruscant and sith were used for the first time in pt
Very well
Now timothy zahn my god, these super chats are lining up because this is a past one now
timothy zahn has talked in the past about how other eu writers had free rein to do whatever they
Wanted do whatever and they would just do stupid stuff and he and other writers had to try and fix it constantly
Okay
That sounds hilarious sounds very familiar yeah, yeah because it's how how relevant but uh
That's how things go sometimes
This video makes me sad
He made a great video critiquing the remaster of majura with actual evidence and showing how the 3ds vision is inferior
Um, yeah, as far as I know his other stuff is pretty good
I just I just don't know anything about it. So I can't really say
Uh, if tlj was not canon, I would be fine with it
I'd still show a lot of yeah, I think a lot of people feel that way
Like it would still be shitty, but fine. Yeah, if it's non-canon and they could still do that forever
They will forever have the option to do that
Um, I googled it said jeffrey epstein before being dot dot dot dot dot
Whoa
The scar anakin has on his face in episode three was in a comic released before episode three
Pablo himself asked george to let anakin have the scar in episode three
All right
Cool, I don't like this video mortar, but uh, I don't like this video mauler wolf and rag its smug aura moxby
Uh, did you hear of the communist name drops at the video game awards?
No
I think the guys
I think the disco Elysium guys had said some weird stuff like that
Some weird socially crap. I don't know
also, hira
sassa lassa gaggles
Oh, hello to you
Watch ion sky. It has moon moon nazis in it
I guess
They need a disappointment, uh, they need to edit tommy. Oh, so into the rise of skywalker like pistol shrimps
Also get tommy on here. I want to hear him say hi doggy to rags
Yay, that would be amazing. We would be on board with this
Uh, midi ready
Like like yeah get us in contact with him. Anyone we will we were on board
Mythical aureans are star wars power level scouters
Very well
Jumanji three was surprisingly good. You won't understand it without seeing number two first, but you don't need to see the first one
Um
Oh wait, so you only need to see the second you don't actually see the original um
I do need to I do want to see it just to
Keep track of it because I liked um, I liked welcome to the jungle enough to see the sequel
um
If midi chlorians aren't a source of force potential but consequence like they feed on it or something
Then it stands to reason that a skilled force user would be able to genocide them without
loss genocide them with some without loss
I guess the midi chlorians
Why would they why would anyone want to do that?
I thought midi chlorians were something that were inside your body though. They were like a party in your blood symbiotic relationship
Yeah, I thought they were microscopic organs
So if you kill them
When I don't understand what that would do. I don't understand how you do that either
JJ abrams mystery box
Have you heard of a youtuber and streamer known as the law runner?
He is the original long man bad with making ruminations of various works that go into hours range
I would love for his small channel to get some love
I have not heard of him. I want to say his name has popped up before but i'm not sure
I guess maybe it has yeah. I I I don't think i've seen anything from the person either way
Um
It's like junji ito horror once explained. It's
All the beauty of the story falls apart and it becomes movie slob like narrative garbage
Not 100 sure what that's referring to
So like junji ito makes these like really
No, I said it's like him. I don't know what it is
Oh, yeah, I don't know either but
You have to define. I feel like artistically what your limits are on your style
and
Then people can adapt to that and you can you have a malleable
uh
Material to work with like you can go off a little bit in one direction and make it more realistic or conservative in the other
but
He has a specific style that
His audience understands. So i'm
some like
I understand that you can create that and
Have a consistency within that but I feel like you still have to have a rule set that
Human beings that are watching it can grasp if it's too much abstract material, then people aren't going to be able to connect with it
If that makes any sense
So
There has to be some like a to b to c
Storytelling element for all of the abstract weirdness to have impact is what i'm trying to get at. Hmm
Um
What's your favorite shot in all of star wars
I think mine might be looking outward from the jedi temple entrance as vader's leading the 501st up the steps amazing
Probably when luke enters the
Carbonite chamber place and vader's standing there
It looks awesome
I think the binary sunset is my favorite
boo obvious choice
And it's it's just so it's um, it symbolizes everything that a young man is like looking forward to and and seeking
to be uh
Finding in his life. It's like a
sort of idealism
Yeah, he just feels everything that he's going through
Just
Yeah, trying to get out of this desert and get wet
Um
Lost is objectively the best tv show ever better than buffy. Tell me why i'm wrong lost fucking sucks. Uh, like
Halfway through season three onward it fucking goes downhill so quickly
Super contrived to get pieces of drama and started generating all kinds of histories for characters just because they don't know what else to do anymore
They only had steam for like two and a bit seasons
It seems like that's what they started out with and then they were like shit. We need to add more now
That whole show
Should have been the point where everybody realized that jj and lindelof and all these people were hacks and that they didn't know what they
Were doing they were just laying down mystery boxes. Okay, like everything seems to make sense black smoke ghosts. Sorry
This is just dumb. Yeah
Here's a new element one step at a time each episode that ends in a cliffhanger or whatever so that you keep wanting to watch
More and figure out what's happening, but it doesn't end up making any sense at all
Because there's nothing there inside the mystery box
Um, I miss anakin's first lightsaber from e2 it's green
It was green. That's true, but kantuku chopped it in half. I think what did he chop?
He chopped somebody's lightsaber in half
It was either obi ones or anakin's probably obi ones actually
Obi-wan loses his lightsaber a lot
Because he lost in the first episode too
He needs to keep a bunch of spares with him like grievous did he just needs to get on a string
Just needs to be on a string. He'll be fine
Yeah, uh second favorite shot was uh kweigan grabbing jj's tongue midair. That's a very good shot. Yeah
realistic
Yeah, that is key now
Um
Timothy zaam was asked to have his books acknowledge the comic that brought palpatine back in the eu and he was like no
That's dumb. Also while I like law runner. He'd never come on efap. Not his type of show
Fair enough fair enough. Yeah, I like the idea that timothy zaam was like lawless dumb
Yeah, he he at least
He's like the closest to george's original vision as it came out
In the ot. I think he gets it the most. Uh, there's another guy, but I don't remember his name as well
The guy that wrote plague is pretty close
Uh moochly you're right jango is so much better than boba boba looks cool and gets a lucky guess as to where han is escaping from
But jango has so much more going on bounty hunter is such a great game
if we're going strictly from the films
jango has uh
More going on as a character, but he's still pretty thin as well
Like boba is barely a character in terms of you don't really know anything about him. He's just go to his job seemingly
and then uh
I guess mando is the one that people would
Want to argue is better than them all
Um
Charge on steppe the poop
As much as I need to remind you dumbos to watch hardcore henry. You shouldn't stream next super chat catch up
So you can actually well catch up
Um, I know that it's hard to know this from the perspective of the audience
But we're actually making really good progress a lot of the time
It's just that there was such a huge amount that got left over
The past like I think there's only one efap out of the past five or so that didn't um
Get to have a portion caught up with
Like it's just it's just taking a bit to get through all of them
But won't be that long and I don't really mind having to stay for a few extra hours to get through more questions
All good
Um
How can your favorite star wars scene not be when they reduced the purpose of the entire skywalker family to reviving ray?
Yeah, well
Not my particular we don't even talk about seeds we just talk about shots, but yes
That was that was also one that I would probably never choose
Uh that feel when you still don't know the motivations of snoke
He was a puppet. He doesn't have any
Yeah, he was just uh
Just a weird
guy made to do stuff
And he wasn't his own person really but maybe
But I don't know
But I just don't know
You should get rob agar on who is rob agar?
I agree, by the way
This guy has a channel called collate of learning and also his own name channel
And he does analysis and has a very specific way of looking at things
Um, he likes to look at symbols and semiotics in films and he's a pretty interesting starship troopers video. That's worth watching
Um, I don't know how
Ornery or boomer ask he'd be on here, but he'd be a very interesting person to talk to
Um
Give us the super chat overflow amount. We riot. Well, you can riot
I don't know. You know, that's fine
You'll know when the day comes that I go
It ranks that's it. Hey, and then rags go. Oh my god
That is it. It is the day
Uh, it's like sanderson's law of magic means nothing to these people all magic systems need consistent rules
Agreed
I don't think of a time where it makes it weird for them to be consistent, you know
Yeah, I
I guess it'd have to be
like the very nature of it would have to be consistent like, um
like zinch
in
Warhammer 40k something like that, but even then he stands apart from the rest
So yeah, just uh, just go with uh consistent rules for magic
Mm-hmm
Just do it. Okay, you should get zack gilbert on huge efel fan
Perhaps one day zachary perhaps one day
Uh, this is the season four finale it's all down from here folks on a serious note. I love you guys's work and wish you all the best
Thanks
Thank you
I think yeah, I guess canonically the wolf the double wolf episode was the end of season four and the opening of season five
Was rise of skywalker
What a what an adventure
Uh dark souls is an offshoot of zelda and snoke is an offshoot of the emperor
What timeline is this even and to top it all off jay killed epstein. Yeah, we got that confirmed. Hey
Oh my goodness jay, it all makes sense. It all makes sense
Yeah, I didn't think he was capable of such an act
This is why the force awakens is an awful soft reboot because it doesn't stand on its own
It had to live under the shadow of the ot not like the bat begins
I don't even think it was a huge mistake. I don't even think it manages to stay in the shadow of the ot
I think it couldn't even get that far
no, absolutely not and it's uh
Its biggest detriment is that it's trying to be the original movie again
If it had gone off in its own direction, maybe it would have earned its own way, but it just tried to copy the previous
Shits fucked yo
Uh, I second the shout out to law runner formerly arch and
Archinegia archinegia for sure how to pronounce that but fair enough
Uh
Watching star wars episode nine drunk in the cinema drinking game during it long live eu alcohol rules suggestions for rules to use
Surviving is not required
Oh every time someone says a word take a drink
No, uh, I would just take a shot for each significant thing you find that doesn't make sense
for the sequel trilogy
Yeah, so it should keep you alive
for at least the duration
Because well because you won't notice them because you're getting so drunk
I'm hope i'm trying to save this person's life rags god
This just says katherine kennedy
All right
JJ said that after seven snoke had to be cgi and hologram because him being there his makeup would have revealed too much about him
too soon
Wait what
They couldn't have snoke in real makeup yet
He had to be in a hologram and cgi because otherwise it would reveal too much about him too soon
Oh, that's like nothing that's like wow what?
Why would you think that's the case
Um
This todd must have like seven copies of chromosome 21. Oh my
seven copies
plenty to share then
Scissor mother equals lesbian
Very well scissor mother. So mother mauler is a sword like weapon or a sword is a mum like weapon. Thank you wolf
I have no idea what that's referencing anymore
Will
But I agree with it. Yeah that I think that super chat was wearing a lot of makeup
Restoring balance equals wiping out half the universe
I think that makes sense. Doesn't it?
I think it just follows
I love the defense of snoke being off
Just because you guys thanos
We wouldn't thanos that's movie bob
He's a bastard
I love the defense of snoke being off just because is well snoke isn't that great anyway?
Your defense is that he's not a well-written character. Okay
I mean they wouldn't put it that way they'd be like he's the he's not an interesting person
And he didn't matter so killing him shouldn't be that upsetting it's it is weird
That yeah that kind of dismissal just makes no sense
I remember us responding to it
We were like it was fucking ryan that made him that way like the idea that you're justifying it
with logic from the film
That exists because of him as well. It's just like this just poop
Thanks for the content unlike the prequels my frontal cortex immediately knew tlj was bad
She is to getting hammered and watching episode nine wasted press f
Actually rags you are correct lucas said originally that sith are the imbalance of the force their defeat means balance is restored
That's how i've always known. He's he said how it was how it'd be. Yeah makes sense to me
Passes my smell test. It just seems like it works out
Narratively and in lore
Thor skywalker said jj is the most modern director that understands star wars also balance means using dark side and light side for good
Most modern director that understands star wars
I don't know who said that for skywalker apparently
Yeah, fuck off weird. Yeah. Yeah, that's what he said. That was a stupid thing to say. Maybe he said it
In 2015. I don't know. I could see that being a thing to say there. Yeah. Yeah, that's the dumb thing to say
Um also balance means using dark side and light side for good. I don't know about that either
What does it mean to using dark side using the dark side for good? I'm not even sure how that works
I mean, I don't know you can choke people you can choke bad people. Okay. All right
You can go into a drug dealer's den and force lightning all of them
Force lightning a generator to give it power
Yeah
Why are we talking about star wars being gay is coming out? Oh, wow
Day
254 and still none of you have watched hardcore henry you dumbos with a capital d
That's in the backlog so, you know, that's just
Uh
I can't wait. I can't wait for you guys to watch that and be like, oh man. My this is if we just go
No, no, charlotte copely is really good in it like your buddy, but it's it'd be a better video game should just be that
um
How much influence did jj havin lost though?
I don't know but
He's talked about it a lot. Like i'm pretty sure he had a big stake in it
I've heard that the ending to lost was really underwhelming. It pissed off a lot of lost fans when that happened originally
Yeah, a lot of the people who have lost a lot look back and say it was a great ending. Um
Via interpreting a lot of what exactly it means and what it means for characters and stuff. Uh, it really depends on who you talk to
Hey glib, hey maula. Hey rex. Hello
Hello
What is all of y'all's favorite holiday christmas halloween kwanza etc. Also, hi wags
Hi, literally not even a competition halloween dominates the rest of them. It's the coolest holiday
Um
Star wars oh within a holiday
Star wars is a holiday. Whoa
You guys not have one that's very difficult like a what
What a favor. I mean a what i'm, sorry. I was
paying so I was
Paying attention, but like too much attention and I got hung up on the first bit. Of course
Uh, what is y'all's favorite holiday and their options and they were like christmas halloween kwanza, etc. And I said halloween christmas
Christmas is my favorite halloween's better
I'm trying to think of anything other than those two halloween's not be better though. You're right halloween's way better
It is how halloween isn't better than christmas dominates christmas doesn't even stand a chance
But there's no there's no halloween meal though. There's christmas dinner and that yeah
Because you can eat whatever you want on halloween
You could even have christmas dinner on halloween if you want to hear it the christmas spirit gets muted by halloween halloween attacks
The christmas spirit buries it because everyone knows it's christmas a lot of people don't even know halloween's happen until
That night when someone knocks on their door in an outfit and they're like, what the fuck are you talking about?
But in christmas the whole it's like the whole month
Everyone just knows that the spirit of the season is around the cold weather and the lights on the houses
You have the tree and all the presents underneath it and all the family comes together
If all the family comes to like my family, right there we're kind of scattered a little bit here and there
We got some people out in new mexico. We got some people out way on mirin virginia stuff, but
Christmas is the time when everyone comes together because that's the big one
The big one to end the year and you know that right after christmas
Oh, man, it's going to be the new year in just a moment and we're still gonna have a decorations up for a little bit
It's almost like a two-in-one
It's amazing and you get to see everybody and you get to hear the sleigh bells and the christmas character
Cooks yours and it's really a big deal like christmas is crazy
It's definitely the biggest holiday and I think there's reason for that. I agree halloween's better
I have I have a solution to this
We celebrate halloween
For like christmas eve and then into the night
It's halloween and then when we wake up in the morning
It's christmas and then we have presents and then we have dinner and all that stuff
Also people in chatter, right you don't get the day off on halloween. So that's not halloween's fault
That's human's fault get off christmas
It's all about being halloween should be throughout the month of october and christmas should be
uh
Like one day because who cares so I will say that halloween needs to change the date the 31st doesn't work
because
Sometimes that is a school night
So what they need to do is say the last um, let's say the last friday or saturday of october
That's halloween. Nope. So that is halloween and then you celebrate the big one
Uh on the thing the thing that you said the whole month
halloween month spooky month
I mean I celebrate it that way regardless. I like spooky month
Yeah, halloween's all right, but man
Christmas the feel this this the feel of it. You're right halloween's feel is better than christmas
All right. I'm just gonna break. So yeah
I'm gonna break the tie
Everyone gets to see each other
Yeah, you can see people at halloween if you want to no, but it's not important
No, it's not important enough for everybody to get together and fly in from out of town
We all gather up at grandma's house or whatever
And it's a big family deal and everyone gets to see each other sometimes after you know a long time
Yeah, you can do that on halloween from a familial perspective christmas. Do you get to mood of people on christmas? No
You get to
Mm-hmm. You get to do that on halloween. Yeah
It sounds spooky. I had I mean, I think it's a neat little aspect
It's like the it's like the one day of the year you can merge people's halloween, which is weird
You'd expect that would be the day. I wouldn't open my door for anybody
But there I am
Those are halloween sucks in chat. That is objectively an evil statement
Oh man, uh 420 is the best because I can smoke weed and celebrate hitler at the same time. No
Uh, look up austrian death machine for some arnie metal
Fair enough
Christmas incorporates all the food and sweets of other holidays and you get presents and you can dress up objectively. It's the best
Wow, super chats are just fucking failing all over the place right now
so sorry
Halloween is best. Everyone knows it. It's just uh humans cheated halloween by giving it one night and
Reducing holiday access for it and not bring it, you know
The the parts we like brings people together you get food
It's like these are all things the humans can set up. Don't forget. Don't forget the christmas swinger parties do on halloween
Yeah
Oh look another slutty nurse wow
You really gonna take a shot at halloween for played out costumes against christmas yeah, I am
Elves would have worked a little bit harder and studied a little bit harder and put in some more work
She could have been a slutty doctor or a slutty head of the hospital, you know
I don't know what their their rank is perhaps doctor nator. I would imagine
Slutty slutty head of the hospital. That sounds pretty cool. Yeah
It just has to be slutty. That's the basic bare minimum
Um star wars is far far away also is shrek equals connected
Yeah, it makes sense
Tim drake slash robin three is the best batman character
Oh the third robin fair enough. I do not know him very well
If I think they're all pretty uh
Pretty awesome. They all have different directions that they get taken in they can all be interesting
Yeah
I figure we'll see more of that as time goes on because
Just more and more comic stuff is getting adapted because they just want to be able to make more and more films
Yeah, yeah, I mean it's just like uh, the the original one was kind of perfect and then the one after him wanted to uh
uh
Do his own thing and then got felt betrayed and so you have basically two protgs that are
Uh antithetical to each other night wing is doing his own thing
And he's a good guy and then red hood is
A vigilante that kills people which kind of goes against the code and he's got a problem with batman
So it's all working out really interestingly
If the force worked like he explained star wars would be stupid
Agreed, that's probably about the graph he put up
Hi guys with halo on pc. I'd love to see you play an efap gaming episode. We do intend to do that at some point
If the fiction books are equally as fake then gandalf in star wars is fine and dandy bigidious bag Kenobi
Yeah, there's a reason why we have canon and to say this book of canon is just as canon as any book of canon
He's like, um
Everybody doesn't do that. So I don't even know why he made that point
I'm sure he doesn't do that. Neither does anybody who thought that was a good point
It's not space that kills you it's the missile
Quotes new movie to explain why new movies canon makes sense that seems reasonable
If in avengers 5 super thanos is the new bad guy
It needs to be explained because of what came before just like snoke showing up needs an explanation
No, they'll be fine because we didn't know where thanos came from so it's fine
I think they might even do it, you know, they might even go the way of star wars. That was his brother. No, no hath
Because um, he's pissed and he he has a backup gauntlet
Um, no, seriously if you liked oakley-dokely then you'll probably like austrian death machine
Uh, I checked out oakley-dokely. I think it's hilarious, but it's not my kind of music
My kind of music, uh
Personally
It's all about the circumstance anakin fell to the dark side and joined the sith because he feared for padme's life and palpatine
Offered him the solution to save her
What is this idiot talking about?
I mean his video is very convincing to people who are fans of tlj. So, you know
I see it. Those are all facts though
I seen it mauler as bdsm kylo ren for halloween
I'm not gonna say no
just suggesting that
Halloween is neat enough to incorporate something like that while christmas would never just never
Uh tour games had massive numbers of jedi and sith
No, no, it was exactly as many as we saw in the ot and that made sense because it all bounced out
If she was alive throughout all nine films and ray his granddaughter is the ultimate force user
This series should be called the palpatine saga
Yeah, it should
No, ironically, it is the palpatine saga
Now people don't switch sides because of their choices it's because the force told them nobody's in control of their own destiny
Yeah, I don't like the fact that the force is the one that knocks evil suits stormtroopers out of being evil
At random seemingly
Personal question time when you wipe how deep do you go and how many times on average do you wipe?
Um, that's a trick question
Use a wet wipe and you can cheat how many times you have to true
And of course, it's very context sensitive who knows what kind of poop you have and maybe you ate
The most garbage of food or you had really really good food
That is filled with wonderful fiber
You need some that question's answer is x and the x means based on context
So here's the thing dark side is about bending the force to your will whereas the light side is about submitting to the force
Gray jedi are supposed to be the balance, but revan was the only one
Very well that that is a branch of the eu. I don't think that that holds
Hello rags
Hi, hello
Hello
Also sanders one new hampshire apparently epic. All right
Not surprised there
Not at all
Uh whole theory is because of the rule of two
Right
doth bane legends believe that the power of the sith and the jedi were always the same i.e two sith equals 100 jedi in power
Okay
Ah, yeah
I don't like that seems unlikely
Uh, I think the rule of two is really just about restricting power
And having control and then being able to train your successors fucking palpatine almost died to mace windu
Wait, I just don't see it
Uh, so he openly admits to ignoring stuff that inconveniences his point point with palpy in the graph
This guy's other videos better be incredible
That's what I hear. Apparently they're good
This video tonaled me I quit oh no
No homo, uh, is this star wars pong? Yeah, this is all about the graph
In the balance thing as rags rags said it's a pendulum
I would say it's a sign function and by definition a sign is a balance around a midpoint
So yeah, you could make a parallel to ecological balance too
Between predator and prey when prey population goes up predator too which triggers prey down
So he could have an argument there, but he made it poorly with a bad graph, which uh, haven't made much sense
And that ends with hi rags
Hi, love you more. Oh, wow. Well, how kind of you. Thank you
And we'll miss you wolf
That's been great seeing y'all together. Also rags tonaled is like a small animal. He can be easily startled by weird random messages
The sith is like a cancer to the force george lukas time magazine april 26th, 1999
Looks like you're bad
If the idea is that
It's life and it's what binds the universe together
And then something that disrupts it and tries to centralize power to itself and take control over it is obviously a bad thing for the rest
the whole
So the force wants to fight that off or support something that's going to
Balance it back out so that things can go back to the way that they're supposed to be
Is it what i'm assuming george is trying to get at?
um, also the guy said about the
submitting versus the
Bending he said it makes no sense at all because you can't submit and control something
Like submitting to the forces of jedi, but you still use it for your own personal investment in yeah
Yeah, which one is it why is why is creamy sheave or why is sheev creamy, sorry?
Well, why is sheev creaming?
That opens up
You know, we could be here for days talking about exactly why that is the case. It's a very complex
But it'll make sense and it's very much canon
Also is rags into guys
Yeah, boy
The male and the male of fee
Given the choice, would you rather be a rich but physically unattractive black guy or a dirt poor but very attractive white woman?
It doesn't it doesn't attraction help out in social situations and almost every way
Pretty well. Yeah being very attractive is just helpful in everything
Because it just makes people more positive toward you, I think
Even if it's like in a minor way, it's still stuff to help
Yeah, I suppose so the options were
very rich or very while simultaneously very unattractive and a black guy versus
Very poor but very attractive and a white woman
I don't know what the black or white has to do with it. I don't know why they're in there. Yeah. Yeah, uh
I
Hmm
So my reasoning on this is that you can be an attractive poor person and that's a pretty good advantage
The money's pretty attractive you have to admit
Depends what you mean by rich and poor and how old these these two options are if they're the same age if they're like in
their early 20s versus
You know, like what if they're in the mid 40s, I'd be like I might just go for the rich guy
So you can get doing stuff, but if you know, if you've got your whole life ahead of you, maybe it could work
I guess I need more
Do you want to look in the mirror and be ugly?
Yes surgery. How rich are you?
I maybe i'd be I think i'd be
I think i'd go with the
Attractive woman because I think it implies younger
So there's more time
And I guess i'm just really curious what it'd be like to be a woman
Oh, yeah, that'd be an interesting um
interesting journey
I think it just is is in it. I don't know
Maybe i'm more interested in figuring out how to make the money
Than I am in trying to figure out how to be more attractive with the money
Uh, if he wasn't creamy he wouldn't have produced ray
Oof
Wise rags into guys. They're big hairy and gross
Oh, they're asking why you're into guys when they're big hairy and gross. They're not all big and hairy and gross
Some of them are bigger accounts though
They got a great personality
They got a big personality
Yeah, it's fucking massive the cream refers to what comes out of my dangus. Oh my goodness. That was directly
Green machine himself
My dankest
Just wanted to say hi rags
Hello and happy birthday how long until your birthday now we're close, right
Yeah tomorrow, yeah
Like an hour fucking year obviously. Yeah, how long?
How long all day?
You see what I did there very long let me check, um one hour
59 minutes. Oh my uh, yeah, we could probably do that because I actually kind of need to go in an hour and 20 minutes
um
So we'll be able to uh
Go over that and hopefully we'll get through a decent chunk of this. I shall keep at it though
For the dothjawjaw fund. Thank you very much
jingle bells efap in cells the cosmic chicken laid egg
Can't say the last jedi is for real because that's just how they feel tisms all the way
a wonderful rhyme
We're quite offensive. So beautiful. I mean people who like tlj will not find that very entertaining. You know, you have to consider their feelings
A donation toward the efap star wars buyback fund
Yes, efap will absorb uh disney one day
We'll get there
Look up jar jars bio on wikipedia
Um
Jar we're talking
Like jj or jar jar binks just i'm assuming jar jar binks. I don't think jj would be on wikipedia
Yeah, I don't know. Oh my god. What if he self inserted himself into the universe? He's like i'm so amazing
And the universe was like no you're not
Uh, jaja binks was a gungan male military commander and
Politician who played a key role in the invasion of nebu and the clone wars that culminated in the fall of the galactic republic
And the rise of the galactic empire
Once an outcast from the gungan society due to his clumsy behavior. He regarded favor with his people by
Helping secure an alliance between the gungan boss rugar nass
And the queen padme amidala of nebu an alliance vital in ending the trade federation's invasion of their shared home world
In the years that followed binks became a junior representative for his people in the galactic senate serving alongside amidala
Once she became the planet senator
10 years after the nebu crisis
Growing tensions between the galactic republic and the confederacy of independent systems
Threatened an outbreak of full-scale galactic war in the absence of senator amidala whose life was under threat by separatist assassins
Binks was convinced by supreme chancellor shiv palpatine
To propose that the chancellor receive emergency executive powers to raise a grand army of the republic
I mean this just seems standard. I don't know if this is funny. Yeah, I I guess this would be
Yeah, it doesn't seem too
unreasonable
Good old jaja in jaja we trust
You
Well, shut the fuck up you steg all day
Shut the fuck up you guys have pet peeves that are common in anime
Annoying ass suit annoying ass characters insanely strong
skinny normally women characters who are just better than everyone else around them at everything that there is
A lot of the close-ups and expressions
Total acts and logic people behaving for silly. It's just the list goes on and on
How about uh these tropes and stuff the dialogue where they tell you exactly how they feel in no uncertain terms in their head
Yeah
Yeah, I fucking hate that so much. Yeah, it's annoying
This is why I just don't give a shit about anime and I just I just don't care so much of it is terrible
Yeah
Probably gonna disappoint a whole bunch of people with that, but I don't care
I didn't say you care. There's some animators that I love. I love ghosts in the shell
I love samurai shampoo if I thought you would care about disappointing people
Do you think we would have gotten this far the oddy facts like the amount of shit we've said to disappoint people?
I'm, sorry
But anime is far from flawless
Read babu frick's wikipedia
Why why like why can't
It's probably just going to describe who he was. Okay, it's like a paragraph
Babu frick was an anzalan male who lived during the war between the first order and the resistance working as a droid smith among the space
spice runners of kajimi
He could reprogram or modify almost any droid regardless of its security measures
bullshit
Because they have to wipe his he couldn't back up his memory
But yeah, he couldn't he couldn't get past that he had he was controlled by that so he couldn't do anything
Didn't count wouldn't work
Whoever mentioned anime in that chat is perma band now
Tlj could have been perfect as two parallel training montages for both kylo and ray with their mentors explaining what happened over the time skip easy
I mean I would take it
anything
So we can do it just got back from an afternoon of lumberjacking not only to catch efab live
But also to remind you that sans is in smash brothers. Good evening fellas
Good evening
I imagine lumberjacking is quite a satisfying job
You get you you chop that shit and you're like, you know what you can see all of your accomplishments of the day
And who doesn't love attacking nature, right? I love attacking nature nature attacks people all the time exactly
Like nature's like I created you and it's like yeah. Well, you know, you create a lot of things. Yeah, true
Um, I like anime I've said this before but practically all of it is total trash also, hello all
Yeah, I understand. Yeah
Uh, please read every word in the dictionary quickly
I'll get right on hard mark the asterisk
Well, we're gonna we're gonna do it. It's gonna take place across all of the efaps
We might die before it's done, but i'm already doing it right now. I've said a whole bunch of words in the dictionary
I'm just i'm trying to do more as I go
They might line up with the efaps are done. We'll probably have said every word in the english dictionary. Okay. Yeah
I mean even the distant ones like anodyne. We said that way back when I'll probably add some for us. Yeah
Quick read act bar's bio
I'm not reading any more bios. I refuse
Rags in your baby frick voice, please say don't mess around with e-girls ever
Don't mess around with e-girls ever
This is for rags happy birthday, buddy. Love your content. Oh, thanks very much. I'm glad to uh,
I gotta be around for you guys. Thanks so much
How did you like it?
Frick movie bob stream with jack shord and h bob that would be funny as hell
I would actually I would happily just watch them do it but
On the extremely unlikely case they invited me. I just be like why why the hell would you want me there?
It's like what are you trying to?
They should just they should just play the movie bob or nazi game
Uh, if ruin johnson directed a mandalorian episode
He would kill baby yoda as a way of subverting expectations. Also, freddy prince jr is an sjw ree rod
Um, I haven't seen a lot from him, but i've seen a couple of things that are like
tismy I guess
Yeah
Do it now he was in the news not too long ago
Because he did stuff like that
Do it now or i'll kick rags
So i'm gonna read all the noise in the dictionary. Otherwise, you'll kick rags. That's from creamy. She do you think you'll do it?
Oh my goodness
All right
Creamy she why though?
Uh, hey mola, will you invite evs could be awesome?
I mean he's he's on a
An open list of people that we eventually try to get
We got we got a special tism coming next week. Hopefully
Uh, if everything lines up that sort of was not expected
But uh, yeah, we're getting there with all different kinds of people
We're still looking at elvis the alien on eventually one day. Give me a few years one of these days
Did he delete his video?
Or is it still up by elvis the alien I I haven't checked but I don't see why you would
Yeah, it was fine. Okay. Yeah
Uh congrats on two million views on fallout 76 video mola. Oh, thank you
Yeah, that must have been tough sitting through all this shit in that game
Yes, but documenting it all with it in the end to expose the tisms
Major lee and the toxic brood guy blame george
Yeah, of course they do. Yeah, of course
He had so much to lose
Not entirely sure who that's referring to
Speaking of bad george approved ideas bleeding kyber crystals. That's a bit great debate
Oh
Was it?
Yeah, that's what he's referring to. It's so it gets so much to lose
as opposed to back in the ot
Wasn't wasn't that the argument like uh, whatever. Fuck it. I can't be asked to relive that shit. I mean that shit don't fucking count
Um, happy bark day. See what I did there
Uh, I do see thank you
Uh favorite flavor of sea man
Um
It's all mostly the same
It can change a little bit between people based off of
Like their giant and things along that pine, but it's all fine. It doesn't it's never tasted bad. It tastes fine
It doesn't taste good. It doesn't taste bad. It's pretty neutral tasting
So there's your fucking answer
Next batwoman video when it's amazingly trash, uh, they're on the way infinity tisms will be next
It's coming out. Apparently this saturday now is where i've decided to to throw that in. All right
I legitimately miss batwoman like it's coming
That woman is something that I really do look forwards to
What the fuck sheave
What the fuck sheave
I never appreciated how long you long men are until I saw you guys start at 4 p.m
And clocked in with sureness that you'd still be going. Love you all
Yes, we're very much long
the men of long
Speaking of bad george approved ideas bleeding kyber crystals making red equals evil canon
Also making is duku evil a stupid question in his own movie?
Um
Fair enough so like you can influence the red to become
The lightsaber to become red you make crystals bleed apparently
It's really what does that do?
Makes it red. I don't I don't know. Yeah, other than making it red like it has a
Like a function, right?
Honestly, I don't know. Yeah
does it
Because I guess if lightsaber blasts, um
Or not lightsaber, so blaster bolts, right depending on the kind of color they are it denotes
Like if they have different properties
So I wonder if lightsabers are kind of the same way different colored lightsabers behave a little bit differently
Maybe no, maybe something from the eu nose and this is basic bit shit, but it's i've never heard of it. So
Right subvert my expectations and go into my front hole pull a ryan johnson on me
front hole
Well, depending on what your gender is that could either work out really well or really poorly. Oh
Probably shouldn't be efapping at work like this first time cm1 live caught up through 45
Here's some money for the lols. Hello me in three question mark months. No, right. No
More like three question mark hours. Yeah. Well three seconds. I wrote this is one of the new ones
Oh my goodness. Instant expert in your expectations. Yes, we did
Uh luke finally attacked palpit team because the shield was still up. So the strike team had failed and the death star was shredding the fleet
I mean sure I this clearly a desperation move
Like must be murdered because you're an evil old man
uh
This just says billion
Attacking vader came after all that and vader threatening to corrupt layer luke needed all of that to go on the attack
These arguments suck agreed
Because they try to relate that moment to him attacking his sleeping nephew. It's fucking stupid
Not too good
Uh, did they ask barbu to back up c3po's memory or just ask him to make the droid real read the inscription?
I'm betting the latter since they're idiots
Yeah, like the whole time barbie was like I could just make a backup and they're like no
No, no, but then it just doesn't carry the same emotional weight
He's like, okay
That was so stupid. Yes, it was
I'm leaving for the military soon and I won't be able to watch for a few months sad face
Just letting you know. This is my favorite podcast and never change
Oh, uh, well, i'm glad you like it. Hopefully you'll be able to squeeze some in here and there when you can and
Get back you're gonna have a lot of catching up to do you'll have a big old backlog
efaps
80 whatever through bazillion and two bazillion and two is where we're probably gonna stop
That's my expectation bazillion and two. Yeah bazillion. I thought we were going to infinity and beyond
Um, well i've heard that someone's destroying the infinite efap universe one by one and there's only seven left ranks
crisis on infinite efaps
Uh
New trailer suggests snoke was a clone slash being controlled by palpatine big gay
Also, I was banned from our star wars for saying I don't think episode nine will be good
Well, that's what you get and yes, you did turn out to be a clone that's how old these super chats are
Uh, i'm sorry about that for that past person who thought maybe there was a chance it would make sense
Oh, no, you poor damned fool
Okay, long man. I've started buffy. You can stop mentioning it all the time now. Also. Hi rags
Hey
Yeah, okay. Fine. I'll stop mentioning it. But if people bring it up, you know, what am I gonna do? What am I gonna do?
Also by wolf and may the dawn be with you you massive
Uh, I hate how everyday people can come up with better ideas for star wars
But multi-million dollar writer directors come up with such disgusting garbage
It does baffle the mind doesn't it just a bit
Uh king arthur was born son of king uther and raised as the son of actor
The sword and the stone was a magic paternity test also. He's welsh
Well, he didn't sound welsh that's your opinion bro
You think welsh is jebakan
Ever seen the in-betweeners. Yes
I uh
It's very amusing
And the guy one of the main characters I forget his name does like a youtube channel where he does reviews
The kind of funny how that'll end up but yeah, it's good shit. Very funny good memes
I root for the stormtroopers because their army's a bunch of white guys. Oh, no
It's fair enough. It's good a reason as any but there's a black man in there. He was called. Oh my god
That's true. Maybe that's why they make him wear that white arm or
All
Mola when making a sympathetic villain, do you agree that this is a bad idea?
Make the villain seem pure evil from the start then throw in a quick flashback sob story just before he dies
Yeah, that's I mean
That's quality
If you've like if the flashback just brings it all together like there was loads of hints along the way
So it was just reminding me of um snape, for example
Yeah prestige kind of kind of could could be an example of that bringing everything together
But yeah, if it's not literally almost like a retcon flashback versus a hey, do you see how all this comes together now?
Flashback, I think maybe it could work with the the latter but certainly not the former
Uh, the only thing stronger than my racism is my hatred of holes
But if I really opened up about either these new to toes would get the channel banned
Well, thanks for being so
Moderate in your super chat. We appreciate you holding back
Rags say bulge to remind us of the german invasion of belgium bulge
Uh, we don't see it unfold we know nothing of why luke is the way he is tlj you melt
Is that a is that an offensive term to call somebody a melt to melt no just saying they are a melt
M-e-l-t no. Yeah, they are a melt
Is that like a
Is it trying to say that they're all flopping flopsy and the skin is sagging? Is that it? I think that's what it means
You fucking melt maybe
You melt
Like all right
Uh, hey molar and rags. Love the podcast y'all have really shaped how I think about many things not just films
Keep up the good work. Bring on tfa part three
Oh, it's on the way and i'm glad you enjoy the show
Yeah, man, it's always good to hear from people that they're liking what we're doing
Because we devote a day to it true. We do we do put a chunk of time in it's true
So it's nice to know it's uh worth it in
all kinds of ways
for people's
Uh sith commit more than 50 of the force chokes despite being only 13 of force users
Yeah, that's terrible
I wonder what percentage of force users really are sif especially in the heyday their heyday
How how big was one side compared to the other?
Sure, some super nerd knows the answer to that question. Oh, definitely
Uh, bye guys off to a family christmas party. I expect you guys to still be fapping when I get back
Oh, absolutely
How many christmas party does that mean that we're in the was this before christmas then?
I can't remember now. Yep. Oh if you didn't sign or date them, then I don't even know
It was the it was the narrow stream. I think this is still
Oh
Gotcha
Uh, if you google
Sochi two toilets one stall you can find rag's special throne room where he can hold hands while pooping. Oh
Oh, you wouldn't want moral support I guess
Luke's character
Luke's character changes dramatically between episode three and four with no explanation. Therefore tlj. Luke being different is fine. Bilbic
h wilgens
Yeah, luke between episode three and four it's like a whole different person
I'm I was kind of upset about that like they show this this guy
And he's like meh
Like he's like screaming luke doesn't really scream that much when you see him
episode four
Kind of weird just putting it out there. He's all whiny and
He looks very different as well he grew like two meters I know
Oh
Rags amola, give me a good hello and who wrote this
You go first fine who wrote this
Hello who wrote this
Wait, it said rags do it at different speeds, please and things
Who wrote this who wrote this who wrote this
Who wrote this who wrote this you wrote this
I hope that I hope I hope that covered your strange request. Yeah
By the way watch a once upon a time in hollywood, it's excellent
Um, I agree. It's pretty good. It's pretty good
What if han survives the fall like palpatine
No, yeah, yeah
If han give yeah palpatine can do it and he's an old weak frail man. Oh, come on can't do it
Outrageous honestly, he's no he's an old weak frail man, too
Yeah, I can tell just by his face. He doesn't want to be here anymore as he was falling. He was like, thank god
It's outrageous. It's not how long i've waited for death sweet embrace
Wait if the emperor can survive being thrown down a shaft and the death stop blowing up khan han solo survive being thrown down a
shaft and the death
planetism thing he's blowing up
No, how's different because he doesn't he's not he's not sheath. All right, he's not creamy
We all know he ain't creamy
It ain't easy being creepy
Uh, do you have a bf rags I want to cook for you
Oh, um, no, I don't right now, but that sounds pretty nice. Uh, that does sound legitimately nice
It'd be good to have a guy around who was just really
I don't know just taking care, you know, and he liked to do it
It's a really nice idea really nice thought
Have you heard of the movie?
beautiful
quite good high rags
beautiful, it's not quite that it's
bi ut if ul
beautiful
But no i've not heard of it
No, I I have no idea also I do want to remind you there was a high rags attached to that
I don't know if you want. Oh, hello. Oh, thank goodness
Um, my cinema put joker back up on imax screen so I watched it for the 13th time. Oh my god, jeez
Got two extra tickets and exchanged them for comp tickets
So my friend and I can watch star wars without paying the rats at disney
All I need now is to buy a bottle of mccallen to drink out of my sippy cup watching this shit
That's a solid strategy. Yeah
Man knows what's up
Kylo forson
Kylo fought a black man with a burning cross. Yep. Yup. He did. Yep
Offensive to say inverted burning cross like satan is a man race is a mole in one
perfect
Uh, so why was luke watching his nephew sleeping in the first place?
Luke was just ruined by that alone creepy skywalker sky stalker creepy. He remembered how he was in episode three
He just uh, he he had visions it was there was senses he had thoughts
Okay, there you go
Uh, he tried nothing and he's all out of ideas. Oh luke. Yeah
Yeah, he he tried all of the nothing is kylo a kill baby hitler allegory. What the fuck ryan?
Well
When you have the opportunity to stop all of that carnage, you know
But then you realize that your attempts to kill baby hitler while he was sleeping is what caused baby hitler
Oh my god, baby hitler why?
How come luke tries to kill kylo immediately and doesn't even bother going for snoke
Because he had a moment of weakness because he was old
Thank god, we know he was old
TROS was entirely consistent creamy chieve
Survived falling down the death star and kylo survived falling down a random hole checkmate
Gibber ham didn't survive falling down his hole. So his complete plot hole ruins the whole thing
They literally fell into plot holes
Who's so big?
Have you ever thought of doing bonus episodes for patreon's patreonies?
um
I try not to have any content in this world by money
uh, yeah
Sort of
Whose sides we like doing these? I mean we and we want as many people
To see it and know it and we want to grow our audiences and the whole thing
Yeah, and obviously the patreon is like if you want to support the future projects it's in it's 100 million percent appreciated
But obviously the it's it's stayed on the patreon pages
I think both mine and rag's that it's not like you're not going to be getting extra videos or anything
It's to keep the videos being made
But um, I appreciate the idea. Uh, don't yeah wait, okay
Let's do
Okay, I will keep that one
next time
It's it wants to be a surprise for rags, but I don't want to do this right now. So yeah, i'll keep that one
If the jedi didn't exist they couldn't be genocided. Oh, yeah
Yeah, I didn't think about that idiots
Luke was just preventing a future destruction of the jedi
He's just like, you know skipping skipping the middleman per se fine
Um
Star wars in fortnite thoughts
I mean, I don't really care. I mean they get more content. That's good for them. I guess
I'm sure the people who play fortnite loved it. I think it's really dumb that they're
Making fortnite an outlet for canon for their thing. Yeah, they should use the movies for that
Uh
But yeah, I don't know I think it's only gonna get worse
I do think it's only gonna get worse because you know, disney doesn't give a fuck. I don't have any soul
What's your favorite corn
Um yellow pop
Sure sweet, yeah, I don't know
My favorite corn, I don't know i'm not too well versed in the different kinds of corn and
Cattle's corn is good. I don't know. I guess it's the corn makers for not clearly explaining that there are many different kinds of corn
I agree with that actually
Uh, try escape from tarkov. You'll never find a game with more robust gun customization. It's super cool
Yeah, I played it a bit. It's all right. I have not played it at all
I'm a failure like my father before me luke bow bag walker
For luke bow. Yeah luke bow. Oh by the way
Zekiro game of the year. Hell. Yeah, baby. Jenos eternally beat the fuck out. No joker's gonna sweep all
Awards. I'll finally see jenos leap to the deaths
He actually uh walking phoenix sweep them all with best actor. Pretty sure he got awarded best actor like four times
Yeah, that's great, but after
golden lion
Oscar and I don't remember the last one
Yeah, golden globe was it
That doesn't matter
Smaller welsh or american
How are they the two options
Well, are you welsh or american? I am whalish
Oh, yes, welsh
What are y'all's thoughts on hellblade too?
Uh, I love the first one as with all things these days
I'm worried that they'll fuck it up
But hopefully if they keep the same team and they keep the scale appropriate for what they can do
Then maybe it'll be great. Uh
Well, I guess we'll find out I guess we'll find out
Just consider me, uh
Consider me concerned but optimistic
Uh
Just want to make it clear that in my future super chats seemed coded they are absolutely not and i'm not doing it to avoid
TOS i'm legit just talking about cookies and gingerbread houses because i'm a great chef
Man, I got you. Yeah, I enjoy a good baking. Uh analogy and discussion. Yes
Join me a good a good yummy bit of cookies and ginger
me as welleth
Mauler I would like to hear your american accent
Well, I don't do that. So
Mainly just stick to british and welsh sort of thing
I'd like to hear you give it a shot though. No, no, I don't do that sort of thing
You know, I don't just pull it out randomly like some kind of sex pivot
All right, but with voices like that would be disgusting
Horrifying even is it wrong to stare at nude models boobs and vag? Oh my gosh
No, that's what they're there for. I mean you gotta draw them. So
They're a nude model. I mean
How are you gonna be able to draw them? Oh my god, the one I just read out by the way has been deleted now
Oh my goodness. My refresh is gone
Really?
Uh, yeah, lucky I caught that one before it got deleted by the youtube mafia
Like how it works that one we just read. Yeah, well, uh, sorry
It was the one before the boobs one. I'm pretty sure it was the one that asked me to do a american impression
Well, that's you can't ask people to do american. It's good to say what the fuck, dude. That's so inappropriate
racist
That's really weird
Is the eric butts the prototypical consumer?
I think he's a bit excessive
Like I mean not typical but he's the he's their god. Oh, yeah, he he is their mark
He's the number one dude. They want everyone to be but I think the average person isn't like that
Most people can be adults about it, you know, yes
Uh, I like tlj and admittedly this is a pretty bad tlj defense video if you have the times
Stefan
Croziex makes a much better one
See what I mean? I feel like here's the thing people have told me that a lot
People have said oh this one will be good. No, this one will be good
And then they're not they never are none of them are not a single one
Narrows was supposed to like it was actually pitched to me as you know
Those crappy ones you watch this one like this is finally this is the one and it's like, okay
Okay, fine. It was terrible for this like three times. I need to stop
I mean, it's not like we're not going to cover more tlj videos. So maybe maybe one day
I just don't believe that they're going to be the one while all these other ones were not the one
Uh, we shouldn't have a jedi order because someone could turn to the dark side
Also, our country shouldn't have a military because someone could be a spy
It's good logic basically
Reestablishing israel was useless. Nothing comes out of the old all of the jews should have been marched to ra's roof
Also add j for good measure. Oh
oh, wow
Can't argue with logic a lot of uh feeling a lot of uh
Vitry all in this one for the j and for the others
Dude fuckle democracy and worshiping progressivism to adapt to new times be reactionary or shut the fuck up
Funny that rags brought up france though
All right, I don't no context for that one I guess
uh
Disavow that fed chat from that guy before mine, by the way
No one's hurting the jews on my watch. The only thing they'll be doing on my rooftop is dancing
All right fiddler on the roof I get I get you I get you
If palpatine created anakin in shimmy's womb palpatine would be considered anakin's force daddy
Ray and leah's grandpa would be palpatine ray kissing kylo in episode nine who would be her nephew
ashtag mcqueen
It's a bit weird
Palpatine
All right
She's my theme
My theme she's my theme
Oh my god, remember game of thrones anyone anyone here? I do. Uh, a lot of people might have
Forgotten it but you know
Yeah, it was a show that went for like four seasons and ended really well
Yeah, remember that thing that was a fucking cultural juggernaut for 10 years that just ended in a fucking whimper and now nobody
Talks about it as if it didn't exist at all. Yeah, I remember feel as though give it enough time
People will forget the good parts too. We'll just forget all of it. Just be like, uh, it was that thing I guess
Uh working on a joker fan sequel where batman becomes an authoritarian to contrast joker's anarchism. Do you guys have any advice?
Uh
They did this with superman
Uh, remember injustice
Oh, so kind of yeah, yeah
Maybe maybe use that as a template and work from it. Maybe I don't know. I like I don't know. I I
I don't know
It's gonna be tough to nail that one
Yeah, because people are really they got a big connection to batman
So yeah, you gotta really work hard on justifying exactly how it would have happened. Even if you're trying to make a whole new batman
If you can lead people into thinking it is a reasonable pathway for batman to become that or maybe it's batman looks that way
From the perspective of joker
Um, perhaps there's some kind of justification for it. But yeah, that's gonna be a tough one to do
Um
just uh
Work your hardest
They
Consistent I guess to anything. Yeah, really like
Write it from the perspective of a really really
I guess critical
Perspective like someone's who's watching it who doesn't think now batman could never be
So you're gonna have to convince those people
You're talking about the batman authoritarian thing. Yeah
um, I would say
You could definitely create
A bruce wayne that would be authoritarian if he decided to go down like an evil batman route
and uh, I would make it so that
Batman would be more of instead of like an instrument of justice. It would be a way for
Bruce Wayne to sort of terrorize
his
enemies for personal gain
um
But it's kind of a what-if story like superman red sun
If you're trying to write it that way, it doesn't fit the morality of traditional bruce wayne
What's your favorite thing on applebee's menu
I've been applebees in a long time. So I couldn't quite tell you i've never been but I remember when I went
I had just fine. I I liked it
I know they've got some really good deals. It's not a very expensive place to go to at all considering
Like for the money, it's not bad at all
What about you glib what do you like about applebees
I was going to take it in the opposite direction. I was saying that if you don't have to eat at applebees, then you shouldn't
um
Not a big fan at all
If I had to i'd rather eat at chili's but I can't justify that
I just had a bad steak at applebee's once maybe it was a one-time thing
Um
How close are you to finishing the overflow
Uh, that would be spoilers
So, um, i'll just say we've taken a huge chunk out today a big old chunk
I don't think we're gonna finish it today though
Hi, love you guys check my star wars reviews for a laugh
All right, that was from big jack films if you want to allow for some star wars reviews potentially
Big jack films
rag star wars
Rag has so cute voice
Oh, thank you
It's coming handy
Curious if you would ever do an efap involving a bad video on a popular album
Album like, um
Like a music thing. Yeah, not really our wheelhouse exactly and I feel like copyright would be a big thing with that
I just I don't I don't feel as if I know enough about music and that sort of thing to um
To I I would be afraid of saying something that just isn't true at all. I just don't have a lot of knowledge
There I would say
sorry, just uh
To interject if you want to find that content
There's a guy named sean c and I think anthony fantano does a good job of that. That's what I would go to
Canadian applebees is god dear
fair enough
Here's something since anakin was redeemed and became a force ghost
Why not just appear to kylo and tell him to stop sucking off vader's helmet?
exactly
Yes, he was busy
Oh, no, not the themes not the themes. Ah, oh no, they're in my films my films
You just hate filmmaking yes, uh, my students failed was it me no, it was the school
I mean yeah film school is
I will never ever go
What about luke skywalker's jedi school? Will you go there?
Luke skywalker's jedi school
I mean as it stands as long as the teacher isn't some old psychopath murderer
Then we I should be okay because I mean i've heard so much about luke and so I shouldn't have anything to worry about
All you got to do is be really good friends with kylo and then he'll come in one day and be like
Hey, man, don't go to jedi school tomorrow
And then you just leave
Some of you are right. Don't go jedi school
Star Wars and game of thrones forced me to pick and choose cannon
I can imagine. Yeah. Yeah
The jedi must end. Okay luke, but can we sort out that other
Sort that out after we defeat the planet destroying mass murdering first order first priorities. Yeah
He doesn't even seem to give a shit
Yep, you should he should have the exact opposite idea
He should be like let's bring all the jedi together across the universe and rebuild it and fight kylo
but no
What's your favorite element on the periodic table
Um
Hydrogen or carbon
Um, I think it's hydrogen is necessary for water oxygen would probably be up there too. Yeah
That'd be iron carbon iron's just cool
Iron's pretty cool. I like um, I like mercury
Oh, there you go, we nailed that question
But everyone thought it would take ages but it didn't yeah, I mean you have so many to choose from for so many reasons
but yeah
texas roundhouse great place to get
medium well steak
Oh, i'm sorry
No, no medium well steak ever you don't want it. It's not you're ruining all the flavor. Yeah, i'm a i'm a medium rare guy
Uh
Kylo chimped out and killed the kids because of institutionalized sithism. No other reason it is not biological. He's oppressed by structural sithism
My god sithism
Makes sense to me. Did you guys have your day one tickets for ros? Oh, that was before we'd seen it. So
I did have mine. Yeah, I did actually
Because but we were gonna do an efap on it and everything and we did can't believe you guys
You guys are total nerds. You're gonna wait online or something like opening day for star wars movie
It was funny. Uh, just by being midnight showing and showing up and everything
There was like no queue and there was a couple people hanging around and it was like, oh my god, like
This didn't uh, there's not much of a cultural event. Is it it's more of a well
Guess you could go see that film maybe
Oh roadhouse not roundhouse, sorry
roadhouse
uh
Ryan's the best thing that could have happened to disney star wars after tfa a middling trilogy by jj that appeased mpc's with subtle
glob homo gee-lob hobo how the fuck that is globo homo that shit
Ryan was the worst thing that happened to star wars since the black plague was to europe
I think this guy's logic is that um, if not for ryan tanking it completely
It may have been able to curse star wars without people realizing it
I think
That has much wider effects
Um, you know like the the destruction of all this cannon is definitely leaving it wide open and
like
I had I had this uh conversation earlier with somebody
That's a producer and a lot of these companies that are making scripted content
They're freaking out because streaming is where all the money and attention is so they're trying to figure out how to adapt their model
To the model that you guys and we're doing right now, which I think is hilarious
like
$15 a month or something for netflix and they're trying to make these big production
These big productions. How does that add up?
Meanwhile, just a couple people with some nice microphones and a lot of interesting things to say
Can bring in a lot of money and attention
It's I don't know what they're going to do. But if somebody's clever, they do something like the bloom house
Productions do really small like horror movies or just any small movies that have a big return build a company a good idea
Understand your scale. It's not smaller again reset for fuck's sake you guys you're going next
Uh
Roadhouse you absolute massive now. I have less money
I'm, so sorry
Hi rags. You should show your face on videos again
Nah
I like the mystique the character and the brand and all that stuff
What's your favorite colored toothbrush blue probably white and blue
A little mix, you know
There's a nice sense of cleanliness with white and blue in a way. Yeah there is. Yeah, it's very soothing the colors
Yeah, and they it's like a minty kind of look
I disagree, but I actually do have a blue toothbrush
That makes you a hypocrite and you should fucking end it all
Just for that
Just for the toothbrush
Would have been bad in the long run
It's like how hillary cheating burning out of the nomination was better in the long run because of what followed
Yeah
For no what followed for bernie or for because I mean she got annihilated
So I don't know. I guess it was terrible for if she had lost the nomination would have been better for her reputation. Maybe
Maybe I really don't think that anybody had a chance against trump
Well, like one of the worst this time around one of the things no democrats hold against her as a fact
She lost to trump, you know
So maybe if she never had the chance to lose to him people like in the democratic party would think better of her
I don't know
I don't know man. I think I think the situation is so hilarious on the political level with like corruption in our country
and that kind of thing that
the democrats have collapsed with
into anti-trump stuff and
bernie sanders like leftism democratic socialism and stuff
So there's a huge split on the left
But all the right-wingers that were kind of like put off by the bush era have kind of gathered around trump
Which is funny because he's kind of a centrist and I think he used it as an opportunity to
capitalize and have his presidency
So I don't know. I think the real concern people should think about is 2024 because I have no idea what comes after this
Oh, that'll be a that'll be a circus as well. I imagine the primaries is that
Because I i'm not really like political in any kind of area like I feel more like um oriented with constitutional
Ideas and law and that kind of thing. I feel like a lot of politics is just bizarre pageantry at this point in time
Anyway, anyway, indeed, uh rags make stalls great again, you know what to do
uh
Kathleen Kennedy Shelby
What you're gonna kill kathleen kennedy, I don't know what you said what what no no no
What is your solution oh
Honestly if if we're not
If we're not fiddling around with people's break lines, I I don't know what it'll take
I don't know what it'll take
Like it we're so far deep into the awfulness
Maybe because she'll never sell it to you or you know, bob eiger or whatever, but maybe you could be like, can I borrow it?
Can I borrow it to buy it mauler? That's the other thing
This wasn't relevant to what I was saying
Like it wouldn't matter if you could buy it they wouldn't sell it to you
But
If you borrowed it prove to them that you can do tisms, maybe then they would be like, okay fine. We'll hire you
Just borrow it
There's not enough borrowing in hollywood, you know
Let's some let's some people borrow some stuff like we used to do with games all the time back in the day
Let's borrow
Nothing wrong with that
The last jedi is a perfect movie so long as you're a nihilist moron
well
A lot of those uh really do like last jedi
If you really don't like star wars fans, you love the last jedi. Oh, yes
It's all a random notification of my things on youtube comments and it was like god this video proves it
Nobody hates star wars like star wars fans. I'm so tired of that fucking comment
Why does anybody think it's interesting or intelligent in any way?
Why would someone who doesn't care about star wars hate it?
You just got to say like what do you mean?
By star wars like be more specific
I just I just i'm going all the way back to the fact there's like you're gonna hate something probably because it destroyed something you loved
Like it's usually driven
By a core foundation of loving something else in the first place
Much more likely for star wars fans to hate star wars than fans of anything else
That's yeah, that's a very true point and especially now
Charitable like look at all the different content in star wars
Think about all the star wars fans that don't like the modern stuff
That doesn't mean that they dislike the stuff that they started
That started their interest in the star wars in the first place and what they carried onward
As they were still a fan over time. Um, and then you also have uh
Sorry, i'm kind of trailing off but
um, I just feel like
The people that are saying this kind of stuff
They don't have any love for star wars or star wars fans in the first place
They only like their specific things and I don't feel like even if they're pt fans or
Specific fans of like cotor or whatever they don't really hate on other people that like different things
it's kind of like
arguing amongst your friends
In a way like he he even if their opinion is kind of off and you don't disagree with them
It's not like you hate them or the subject matter that you're talking about. So I have no idea
Where these people are coming from like what's the basis for that idea?
I think it's just a casual thing to say that they think is able to
point out a hypocrisy
like
They think it somehow is poignant to point out that you're supposed to be a fan of the thing you're making fun of idiot
So look at you. This is like
Of course I am
Yeah, I have an investment in this thing that was ruined. I still wish that I think it was
Clever because it's really not
Is that like where ihe said in his video where like we're supposed to like things
Because we're fans of them and if we dislike a decision in it then
We're hating it because I don't I don't know. I don't hate star wars just because ryan johnson fucked it up or
JJ fucked it up or kathleen or whatever. It's hard to hate something that you love like that
Obviously, you just hate the changes that they made. Well, yeah, like I said, it's so wildly different now. It's not like
Uh, it was just the ot and then a movie came out and people hated it
It's like we've got all kinds of factions and this goes as far as all the eu stuff the tv shows the prequels the sequels
The ot it's just there's people all over the place who love different selections and they all hate different selections
So it's just like of course it just makes sense star wars is an enormous ip. Why is this hard for you to understand?
Even if I don't like like star wars rebels, I don't hate it. There's just a huge difference between the the
The way that the disney trilogy movies were presented to fans
I feel like compared to stuff that was made by people that at least cared a little bit about it
Yeah, I don't know
Also by rags making it great again, he meant use that big ass doggo dick apparently you massive
Oh, I so I wouldn't have assumed that would fix star wars. It's fixed a lot of things though
There's a lot of power to it. You never get shit done
but I wouldn't have assumed that was uh
what um
What you were meaning by that?
The third prequel film is better than any film from sequel ot
Gonna have to disagree with you there
But the third prequel film
Yeah, being revenge of the sith is better than everything from the sequels in the ot. I guess I disagree. No way
I mean it beats out all the sequels
Yeah, yeah
undoubtedly
Ray is above the recities
Don't know what that means
There's recities
Uh gotta leave for work slice and dice everyone
slice and dice
Love your tlj and tfa critiques. They make me happy to be in your patreon question
Did rlm claim your tlj part three you have a handful of clips of them?
And i've heard they're not very forgiving also high rags
So, um, I actually had to create so the same way that I manipulate like certain things in shows
So, uh, if you watch me create uh play the scene where jamie explains his motivation to brianne in season 3 of game of thrones
It's about I want to say 25 seconds
And you might be like how did you do that without getting it claimed?
And it's like I had to basically create my own scene. You have to like toy with all of the um
What it's actually said so say for example
I needed to ask rags a really important question and halfway through answering it very significantly
He was responding to someone else who said hey is the door open? He's like, no it does not open then I go
Hey, wait, wait, you're gonna announce the thing
I can chop all these
Lesser bits out the part where it gets really hard is when you need to keep all of it
and so you have to
You have to inject commentary basically
So like if someone says something you just have to go right I have to comment on this now
Otherwise i'm fucked for copyright loads of things you have to change and do and you actually have to take the same approach with rlm clips
Because uh, they do claim everything
And uh, they did claim the portion I had of them in tfa part one
Uh on one of my earlier uploads and I had to change it all
Oh
Yeah, um not a huge fan of it, but they do it to protect their work
So, you know i'm not gonna hold it against them that much copyright is important
Just uh, I wish it were less harsh. That's all
And I wish it was smarter. It's like oh you have a two-hour video with a 10-second clip of ours
It must all belong to us. It's like yeah
I don't know about that seems a bit intense, but okay
Uh save what you love even if it means everyone dies
Okay
Yeah, they uh don't make sense. It was like a bit of a conflict there. I don't know
Attack of the clones beats out any of the sequels and that's sad as fuck
Probably I think all the sequels probably be all of the pre- uh, sorry all the people's be all the sequels at this point because of uh
Just how nonsensical the sequels are
I would watch the phantom menace in a heartbeat over the sequels
Yeah, absolutely
What about what about any content at all in the disney era of star wars
Does that apply to the mandalorian and also rogue one and well, it's pre-goals better than anything disney have made
Yeah
I don't know exactly i'd have to think about it
Yeah
Uh click here for super big long sex vids free
That was a super chat as well. Nice
Okay, so I did
But nothing happened
They were so obsessed with spamming and advertising they didn't have anything to advertise
Holy shit, we jumped the gun
Uh lord of the rings was my childhood
I don't know if my heart can take another franchise being tainted by lazy writing and corporate woke messaging
I feel like lord of the rings is almost due for this
Considering everything else has fallen apart and I say everything else just a lot of things
I think I think the tide will turn
Eventually just in the audience's mind and then there'll be like a common understanding about what is the fan canon
And like what do we care about?
Well, we care about these movies we care about ralph bakshi because it's cute or whatever and then we care about peter jackson's
material and then all the other woke material will just fall to the wayside as like something that was really cringy that happened in the
Late 2010s and early 2020s and society will just like forget it
Yeah, I don't know how much staying power the last jedi has
Yeah
Uh, oh no, I like the first guy's zelda mm video
It's okay. That video can still be good
Just that he didn't make another one. Those are good
Guys, obviously rose is an agent of the first order and that's why she saves the first order by stopping the resistance. She loves the first order
You could have done that twist. In fact, I might have considered doing that in the trilogy for her
She was a mole the whole time
Just to deal with trying to re-establish the first order
That's her trilogy
Um, I heard yoda only could because of planet's force link
Oh the lightning thing
Um
Yeah, we we talked about that on the uh, the rhinovskalga stream, I think
That planet man's got some juice
Oh, so, uh four minutes until uh until tomorrow done done
It about to be reg voice day
Uh, how can one contact you rags
Um email discord
Not twitter twitter's gay that's the best way to do it. No twitter. No twitter. Uh, email me
Uh 1800 get reg gmail.com or uh discord me through
Don't discord one of the servers. Uh, either
maulers or my own something like that
Uh, what if yoda did in fact lightning the cannon and that's what made it fire like the force first order troopers are all staring
Because they didn't shoot it
Very confused by that
I think they're trying to say that what if
Yoda firing his lightning at those books even though they weren't there was the the destruction of the law of star wars
You know, that's how it happened
Yeah
Do you remember that part in uh, the red letter media the plinket review where he says like what if yoda?
Shot green lightning back at palpatine. I feel like the that lightning part was
a response to that
Like if I don't know if it's intentional, but it just seems like such a slap in the face like you just saying now
Yoda shooting his lightning made me forget for a second that it was 2020 and not like
1997 when star wars was still good or whatever
just
Amazing that that's where we are in star wars
Why do you think people so adamantly defend the last jedi? It's almost a come
Come to cult like mentality. Oh, they love it
I guess the film said a lot to them on a personal level and so they feel the need to
Defend their experience because they know it was real to them. And so there must be something in the film
That caused that and to figure it out and then talk about it and defend it from people who are saying the opposite
Because it gave them the opposite experience
It's something they feel the need to do
Like narrow's video would have been so satisfying for people who love tlj. I wouldn't doubt it
It's just that they're not thinking very clearly when it comes to a lot of the events in the film
Precisely because it made them feel extremely emotional, which is the whole point
Of a lot of what we do
Is like try and separate how it made you feel and think think really hard about the events and does it actually match up with what?
You feel happened
Because it don't there's a dumbo
There's a dumbus
Doimbus is a poopy
Don't do it. Would suggest looking at hashtag hot girls for bernie on twitter
If you want to see some three out of tens and plenty of land whales acting like they're attractive
Oh that you just need some body positivity
Happy birthday rags
Oh, thanks much
And rag check your email, please
I shall do it
Rah almost there rah prepare the high roof for this smeg farmer who?
Oh my goodness gracious
Have you seen arches video on if the imperium is fascist?
I have not
12 a.m. Hooray. It's
Birthday time hooray. We made it all the way to my birthday. Yay
Chats filled with happy birthday rags good night. It's the 12th
Yes, sir
You are now 306
I don't feel that bad
bad
You can live till like 80 or 90 about 306 and yeah, man
Not an issue at all
Happy birthday feels like it kind of feels like how I expected to like feel something but
Man, there's nothing nothing happening
Uh
Asked earlier but logged before I saw the answer would you mauler ever participate in any online tabletop rpgs with the gang gas mask wearing
nazi vampire when
It's just really not my thing. Like i've watched it kind of a couple of times as well and I just don't think
It's my jam or at least not for now. Maybe there's something i'm missing about it that uh would get me more interested
And it would be pretty difficult to fit it into my
Schedule at this point, especially with how much you need to kind of
You need to be invested and I wouldn't want you to
Yeah, be someone who's like i'll give it a shot and then gets bored or something. I wouldn't want to do that
Um, so i'd want to be careful, but yeah
Looks like fun for those who who uh who are playing it and enjoying that shit in fairness
Happy birthday rags
Well, thanks very much. Thanks very much. Imagine unironically thinking that self-preservation is wrong
Yeah, but if you do it for love, it's okay
I mean if you don't do it for love
What species of whale do you live in mauler?
large
Massive if you will
This is for wags give it to him. Happy birthday to wags. Also as always send my love to wags
Oh
Good job. Good job for setting me up. Uh, happy birthday rag
Uh, thank you very much very much
Um, they could have made rose a vengeful character who was only in it to get revenge for his sister
And then learns that hate isn't enough to win. You have to be fighting with something you love just like will war two vets
But that would have been interesting. How would they do that?
Just delete her just don't have her
True, just act is just keep going on
Pretend she never existed. If anyone mentions the name you say who's that, you know, never mind
I'm sure she's not important and you'd be correct
Happy birthday rags
Thank you
This video is pretty much good help
Yeah, we find that with a couple of the uh, the ones that we watch
Can't have the femoid learning any lessons though
No, dun dun dun
According to one of the ratings boards the weird ass will be used in tros which henceforth shall we shall pronounce as tras
as in atrocity
Beautiful very good a question to ask efap guests after seeing the rise of skywalker
If you were forced to watch one set of films, would you choose the star wars sequel trilogy or transformers?
Uh first three movies, I guess oh the second so second third and fourth, I think is the question
Wow, um the greater
So I don't really care about transformers
I would watch the transformers ones because I just did not as fresh on my head, but at least they'd be new
They would
either transformers or what
The sequel trilogy
Oh transformers. Yeah. Yeah, easy. I can't believe you're making me watch transformers is my answer to that question
Easy that's where we're at
I I can't remember
Like anything because it's it's like the pirates of the caribbean movies. It's all just mush. It's memory mush in my brain
Mm-hmm
That's pretty funny. I like the first pirate pirates of the caribbean movie, but yeah, it's mostly just meme mush in my brain
Uh, you got my email rag also lol at the land whale thing
Yes, I did get your email, thank you very much
In human ears, how old is rex?
Um late 20s, I guess never ask a lady her age
Looking for suggestions on new mic to use for podcasts preferably under six hundred dollars. Oh, wow
Wow, you've given yourself an insane budget
I was gonna say I think couldn't 600 get you a sure mic because that's the one that like is top tier for consumer grade
but
If you're not looking for the top tier consumer grade you're looking for mostly top tier
Just 80 2020 will be more than and you can afford that that's what we use 120 bucks
And it's usb and xlr whichever one you want to use
Pretty darn good for the money
There you go. We endorse the 80 2020 and we're not even sponsored
It's just a good product
hooray
Just have rose be some scrappy cunt that joined the resistance to protect her idealistic rebel sister and lost it after she sacrificed herself
It's a standard character arc, but no gotta subvert
Don't wait for you guys to read this in the 12-hour efap mini that goes over super chats
Nope, we read it on a regular episode
Not necessarily for efap but check out the daft video on hidden misogyny and racism in disney wars lots of interesting observations
That one I think we've read before that sounds familiar
Yeah
Like literally that one. I feel like that actually might be a repeated one
This one just says turn the video off
Never not until we get to the end
Also itchy barker's new kmt documentary is out
Fair enough, I don't I don't follow itchy barker. I think that's a geeks and gamers related person in some way. I can't remember
Ooh, exactly
The opposite of high rags is toodles poodles. You can't change my mind
Hello more hello kick rag and all that good stuff. Oh kick j
And uh, yeah i'm gonna have to wrap up in about 10 hours 10 hours 10 minutes from now
uh
Imagine asking jj rj and kk what version of the ot they watched and they show you the family guy star wars
The whole st would make so much more sense
I don't even agree with that
I would happily watch sequels to the family guy star wars. It's way better than the st
Yeah
But I get the point
This says rai hags
rai hags
Bro help
Low health
Rah used roof. It was super effective. Yeah, it doesn't surprise me
Someone posted a whole bunch of house emojis. It says take your pick rah
I like it. Uh rags. What kind of gong bung called where you just flick first
But then pew pew holes into a person to continue the act also high
Hi
I'm, sorry. What? Yeah, I don't really
Know about that one
I mean, yeah, that one seems uh, not gonna lie does seem to let you study that one while I read out another one
The lightsaber was sentimental and apparently force sensitive to rags
Oh
We've lost the context for that one. So
Well, yeah, but that doesn't make any less sense than the rest of the stuff that i've heard
Oh, yeah. Sorry. I meant to paste it. That's the one that if you want to try and decipher it for me
What is the kind of gong bung called where you just flirt first but then pew pew holes into the person to continue the act also high?
Um
I I don't know. I don't know what that's called. The chilean, uh sphincter trot
Yeah, that's probably it
I think that makes sense. This one's just banana
I agree with that
Uh, what's your discord says can't find it on description. It should be there the link to it should be in description. Um, yeah, it's right there
Yeah
Uh, just you know, just check any of the other efap descriptions on mooler as well. They should be in those
Those don't work. I don't know what to tell you because that's how everyone gets into the discord as far as I knew
You special happy birthday rags mine, too
Oh awesome. That's bob that said that happy birthday bob
Yeah, we share a birthday with abraham lincoln and charles darwin
abra charles link win
So we can evolve as movie critics
Imagine being born the same day as abra charles link win. That's so cool. Yeah, i'm really old
Uh, did this guy specifically make this video to get us to kill ourselves because it's definitely a good effort
Hopefully you guys can still have a good week
It was
It was quite a video. I hate this whole failure is great bullshit
It's thinly veiled cope for tattooed abortionist degenerates that love indulging in sin and want vindication. Oh my
That's it's one theory
That's uh, that's an aspect of it. I can understand
Playing jedi nice jedi academy for the first time since 2005 and watching efap tonight will be a cozy fun filled. Oh god
It's a tlj video
Mueller have you seen cosmo tisms mcu ranking apparently iron man 3 was an underrated and fantastic film better than both civil war and homecoming
Yeah, but cosmonaut no fairy in way
Cosmo's very bad at his job and he has poor taste
So how can you say that this makes a lot of sense? And besides his opinions change a lot. So
Like he doesn't really base any of it on anything beyond I liked it or I didn't like it
I liked it. No, I didn't like it anymore
So it shouldn't surprise you
We will totally cover him eventually and we will explore just how he goes about making what he considered to be his best video
That was the prequels breakdown
It'll be great efap will have lots of fun
Um, hi aber charles linkwin
He's not alive. He died ages ago twice. She died in the
200s if you four scored seven billion years ago
You two are goddamn robots go recharge already. Oh very soon very soon. Another like five minutes or so
Yeah, probably I don't feel as bad as I normally do but maybe it's because I got that the birthday vigor or something. Hmm
Uh rags, did you get my copy of castle crashes in email?
I did i'm looking at it right now. In fact, um
yeah, i i'm actually figuring out how to
Get it. I just clicked the button on the email. I'm on gift activation at the moment. Oh god
um, and I gotta open the little bootstrapper and accept gift and add to library and
Uh, i've got it. Thanks very very much for uh castle crashers. I really appreciate that
I remember playing it ages ago on the xbox when it first came out with some friends and I haven't really played it since so
I'm kind of can I i'm gonna see what other friends of mine actually have it
Um
Let's see
Friends for you all friends who play
I have a fair amount. They still have this. Yeah
Mahler you have it. I do i'm not a huge fan of it
But maybe we can give it a shot at some point who knows yeah, maybe yeah, maybe
um
But you've only been streaming for two hours my god, it's only been two hours guys, doesn't it feel a little longer than that
Yeah, let's go for another 10
I feel like we just started
Four score and seven billion years ago rags received his first monthly thrust
1.2 billion years ago. The first long man was discovered. Can you confirm?
Yes
I can confirm that the rest
Uh luke is an x-wing pilot. Surely he could have used his x-wing to help in some way
Why was force projection the only thing they went with?
Because ryan johnson's a
shitty shitty filmmaker
That's one explanation at least for this movie certainly like it's fucking hell, man
So luke of course projects himself across the galaxy to cause a slight distraction. That's just what people want
No
from luke scram the fucking
Get killed. Uh, you can add me on steam to play castle crashes. That's from a british potato
I got you
What if luke saw a vision of himself ganking kylo in the school
So he assumed snoke was trying to use kylo to get to him and left then kylo's exposed to snoke's influence
With no real protection and starts resenting luke for leaving. I'm not even the biggest star wars fan
But I can write it better. I mean that's better. I still don't like it though
Luke leaving people it's just why why you realize all of this comes back to the fact that we began with it being he fucked off
That's all because of jj
Everyone's trying to make it work that he fucked off and it's like can we just not have the fact that he fucked off
How about that?
Yeah, like you don't have to do this
Um
You mean jebby, please clappison maula what jebby, please clappison
I I think I get it
the combo of three
Retcon all of tlj is the kids playing with the dolls
I like it
Here's 20 fan services. Why thank you
What's wrong with imn2 and h of ultron?
lots
Lots are wrong with both of them especially age of ultron. Holy shit
Um, I suppose if it's not really time to say it right now, but uh
The villain sucks in iron man 2 the plot is flisamy
Iron man creates a brand new element. It seems really retarded that it was made by looking at the structural piece of his dad's like weird
uh
What do you even call that like courtyard thing?
He's like pulls it up in digital. It's a new element that whole bit is so retarded to me
then um
Whiplash sucks. Uh, I just um, but but there's some character stuff in there. That's okay age of ultron
Just makes no sense at all. The whole film's fucked. Uh, ultron
Once he's into the internet ultron shouldn't be able to be defeated
But vision just looks at him manages to pull him out. That's one of the most contrived things in the whole movie
Other than that ultron is too goofy. Like he's not intimidating at all
He keeps joking and he's like really petty
When you had james spader as your villain like why did you waste it so much?
And I think me and fringy have talked about it every once in a while
Uh, but there's a lot more problems
With with both of those films as well, but um, I would go into it with more depth but that that should suffice to a degree
Infinity war ended on a massive cliffhanger and endgame hype was insane
Yes, it was i'm not sure
Well, he might have said something in his video narrow that um makes that relevant
uh thoughts on bananas
I don't I don't like them. I don't like bananas never like the taste of them. I like the taste of bananas. I think they're cool
Yeah, they're all right. I'd hang out with a banana. I mean rags that he'd marry one earlier. So
Looking pretty good. Yeah because of their their life expectancy
I that's a brand new sentence right there. I marry it because of its life expectancy. It's like what?
Um, this goes to glib rip patrick a new one. Oh
Will do you want to go for that butt?
And I will
And I guess before because i'll probably close out there actually but I was gonna uh
Yeah
There's these memes we didn't get to any in this one
I know bayouin would be upset if I didn't uh show this one very quickly. So, uh
It's a nice old reference to
the stream today
I want my babies to have human intercourse with your face. I think we should be welcoming towards you know, this is the uh
There's no there's no fireplace but you could tell this is maybe on a tv show
Is the guy from the video and he's just you know, he's talking to the
What was the book say toxic brood of peace?
There's a little it's a little alien egg with a peace symbol on it
Yeah, honestly, that is a good-looking alien queen
That uh, that definitely is a bayouin drawing oh, yes
Toxic brood of peace. I went to my babies to have human intercourse with your face
This is how you do it right this big hole in your face you call it human intercourse
Yes, this is your birthing canal. Correct? You could just vocalize through it
Um
And yeah, we won't be a rushed finish like last time though
I will say that it will be some time now before the next fully fab. It should be next saturday
We even already have a guest lined up as well as fringmond. Bring daddy g should be coming on
We will
It's intended to be a good old-fashioned talking efap. We don't actually intend to cover anything
We're gonna chat about different topics with our guest and then probably tackle
Uh the overflow again of which we took a huge chunk out of today. It's it's coming along. Don't you panic folks who?
Wrote messages years ago
We're getting there coming
I I do look forward to the day where I say it's all done because it'll come leave
I'll leave don't leave any
Super chat behind no, what's with all the bananas?
I don't know a meme goes solid in chatting
I think because you married a banana. Is that how it started? Yeah. Well by the time the super pass the super
uh
fuck by the time the stream ends
it'll be like
Probably half spoiled if it just been sitting out on the countertop or something
This marriage would have been over. Yeah
Even even just a day will have dramatic effects upon especially appealed banana, which that's the emote. It's appealed banana
So just saying guys you're killing him
um
And yeah that I co-op with today's super chats and streamlabs all of it's done
It's just the overflow of which is is coming right along. So thank you all for watching
um, and thanks for the very kind donations and the
Support we uh, we got we got a lot of memes. We did a bunch last time. Not so much this time
I think next time because the conversation thing is going to happen that we'll probably try and get a whole bunch of them done
That'll be saturday
7 p.m. GMT as usual. Hopefully that's that's the expectation right? Everything can change. Um
This will come out probably tomorrow. We're actually today for americans now
Eventually
And then I need to stitch together the two parts that separate themselves for no reason
That'll come out the following day
and then saturday, like I said will be
Infinite isms 5 which is quite amusing. I I did check it out ahead of time to make sure everything was working on it
and um, copyright was an asshole, but it's coming
and i've got to get out super check hatch of three which will which will
Probably be between the saturday and the next saturday. That makes the most sense
and uh
Depending on if what's going on. I probably could do maybe another super check catch up with mr. Rags over here
I will i'm certainly down for that. We need to catch up on them. Take care of them. Mm-hmm
Make sure they have a home, you know gotta take care of them cuddle up with them. Make sure they're fed
Uh, but yeah, that's about it. It's been fun. I hope you enjoyed
uh
The last two are everyone super chat now and banana
Banana, we're proud of your bananas. They're wonderful
Yeah, anything else you guys want to want to say before we sign off?
I'm just I just want to say that i'm sorry. I don't find my uh banana wife very appealing
beautiful
Um, uh, yeah, happy birthday rags. Enjoy that. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you
And uh, I should have my video out in a week
Thank you for having me on mala absolutely no problem. I'm having a good time
Yeah, oh, of course and thanks to uh the others, uh
obviously sargon arch and
uh
blame
I'll blame the controller either way. Uh, this was it was quite an exciting adventure and we shall see you next week folks
Good night
Bye
later
and remember
service guarantees citizenship
Clark
