It's always reassuring that before it even says that the broadcast is completed the chat
starts coming in.
It's like, Oh, we just got a really, really good chat chat is from the future.
Late man bad.
I, I am outraged that I am the late one quote unquote, I shan't throw anyone under the
proverbial bus, but metal was the late one.
Wait, I was the first one in the call.
I was the first in the call.
How dare you know your mother started the call.
No, you can't.
No, no, mom.
She cannot help you now.
Oh, yes, hello, Chad.
How do you do?
Hello.
Hello.
I get this chat on screen before everyone reads.
I just realized there's a pop out chat for YouTube.
That's way better.
Yes.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Pop out.
Are we live though?
Do we have people?
We got people.
We got people.
We got people.
Oh my God.
Hello, everyone.
Hello, everybody.
Everyone.
That chat is on the screen looking fine, looking sexy.
So let's see.
Yeah.
Yep.
Everything's looking good.
Thumbnails.
Thumbnails up and up.
Yes, everything's fine.
We can just discuss things now.
How is life, Frank?
Life is going well.
Life's going well.
Things are great.
Everything's magical.
All's good.
All's right in the world.
Fun to view it.
Oh, here.
I'm having a great time.
I'm having fun.
I'm having fun.
We're going to cover some videos.
Talk about talking about Joker.
How's life, Mel?
Good.
Good.
Don't lie to me.
Okay.
Okay.
Never mind then.
I cannot lie to you.
And welcome our guest for episode 70, Mr. Literature Devil.
How do you do, sir?
I'm doing fine.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for having me.
Appreciate it.
I messaged you a long time ago about availability, which I've done with a lot of people and
a lot of those people are like, so, you know, a year ago when you said, like, shut up.
I'm kidding.
We were supposed to have an additional guest, but they are either running late or not running
at all.
We shall, we shall see about that, you know, just in case anyone else ends up coming on.
But for now, it is just us four and we'll be talking about what's that, what's that
film about a clown or whatever you guys heard about that?
Batman?
No, Batman.
Batman versus clown starring Jack Nicholson, starring Danny DeVito, starring Danny DeVito
as clown.
Men who stare at clowns is a weird film.
It's an underappreciated film project that he did before he was a man we know him as
today.
Yeah, we we got Mr. Ralph, the movie maker, made a video on Joker.
And apparently it's it's real, like it's not a joke.
And I know how that sounds like.
Oh, very funny.
It's like, no, seriously, like a lot of people were like, it's a joke.
And so me and Rags were like, oh, OK, you check out the video and there's there's a
hint of it.
Like, we'll go over this.
Like, there's there's some stuff in there like, oh, this must be a joke.
But apparently it's real.
Ralph has stood by it.
And that's fine.
There'll be plenty of opinions to go over and it's going to be entertaining.
But you know, in the time that we were waiting to discover whether or not this was 100 percent
a realism, we did our our movie homework.
Did we not Rags?
We did do our movie homework.
We did.
We spent many hours with our homework.
We watched some movies.
We watched we watched all the movies that people say that the Joker is just a rip off
of.
I guess.
Do you want to go through them?
We start with Taxi Driver.
Right.
Yeah, we started off with Taxi Driver.
Wouldn't all that good?
It was it was kind of, I guess, I mean, definitely not definitely one of the weaker ones we watched.
It was certainly my least favorite of all the ones we watched.
Didn't think it was all that great.
We should probably try and do it.
I mean, we've got time.
We could do a bit of detail if you want.
So yeah.
Oh, I thought the pacing was really bad.
I thought that there were a bunch of redundant scenes that simply weren't necessary or didn't
serve much of a purpose.
The writing was really clunky and a lot of parts.
I think the protagonist's motivations were very, very lacking.
He didn't even seem like a real person.
In fact, they just did really didn't really didn't care for it.
I'm going to piss off so many people.
No, I know it's funny.
That's all like.
So my issues with Taxi Driver, I think it drags at parts and that I really don't like
Travis Bickle.
And I know that that's not as like, like, who cares if you like when I was like, oh,
well, I mean, I had anything with him.
I guess.
Yeah.
What I'm what I guess I'm referring to is strictly my my engagement with the the story
of being that I I struggle to empathize this situation because he's kind of an ass and
a bit of an idiot as well.
Like you might you might be like, how does this not apply to Joker?
It's like, oh, I guess we have to get into all of these these little interesting tidbits
tidbits.
But his I guess the film is about him trying to find motivation as in to do he doesn't
know what he wants to do specifically.
He wants to do something and bouncing between lots of different things because the representation
of what it's like to be a man a man with with plenty of drive, but nowhere to I guess direct
it.
And so, like, there's the influence, there's the approach with the nightlife, the he describes
the world as like scum.
I guess he's referring to pimps and the I guess there's some I don't even I can't remember
specifically what he says that prostitutes seem sexual and drug related.
He's got.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he wants Palatine to be the one to to clean it up until I guess because this is
the thing is there's lots of bits that I guess you have to watch some video essays to be
clearer on.
But that didn't seem to work out for us.
And so we watch them and they just weren't really they weren't really well reasoned.
But it's just we the way that it describes why he does the thing that he does and the
way that it tries to elaborate on his motivations is really poor to the point where I was I
was really wondering in a way that I never had to do with Joker.
I was wondering why is he doing any of this?
This seems to be in fact counter to what you would expect him to do or what he seems like
he would do.
Just not.
Yeah, I might say I guess I take a softer stance to you, though.
I actually think it's pretty well made.
I just don't like it that much.
Well, it's well made in the sense that.
Well, you talked about like shots and cinematography and execution of everything or.
Well, even even he is a character being this this this essentially a dare I say creature
that's just looking to find something to work with.
He's bouncing between lots of different ideas.
There's this shaky ground in terms of understanding exactly what drives into each position.
But like, you know, looking at even discussions and reviews, people argue to this day about
exactly why he does everything he does in that movie.
Story here, I quite find I find the idea that he was looking to.
Commit to what could be considered like a terrorist type plan with with pound time being
redirected into.
Attacking that the pimps being considered a hugely heroic act by a general audience when
it wasn't necessarily exactly what would have happened had he been successful with pound
time is quite an interesting, I guess, look at the situation of how different things can
happen and the implication being that he's like a ticking time bomb and that this is
only going to happen again because he's he's so lost in terms of what he's supposed to
do with his life.
I don't know. There's there's there's elements to it that I do find interesting and performances
the as as put lots of different direct directorial elements.
I just my issue is such a difficulty in connecting with Travis Bickle.
I just don't like him. I'm sorry. He's an ass.
Yeah, really, really tough to grasp his thought process and why he does the things he does.
Not terrible.
It's also I just I just thought someone said you're not supposed to like him.
How many video assets did we watch where they said he was relatable?
He's relatable, understandable and the end him.
Us liking him is what like drives us.
They would argue that liking him is a big part of why the film is well written, is that it makes a horrible
piece and likable or something.
I was just like, oh, I think at least two of the video essays that we watched said pretty much that
you're supposed to really connect with him.
He was so empathetic and you could just level with him.
It's like you could see yourself in his shoes.
But if that was the case, they failed miserably.
He didn't even like a human being very blank, distant.
He had no real he didn't seem like a human being.
And I think they were trying to translate that through a lot of his dialogues.
Well, he struggles to maintain a lot of conversations in a especially with the girl in the coffee shop with even
with Palentine, he's blank for a lot of it until the end part.
Yeah, Palentine seems to be sort of like giving him some looks like you're a weirdo.
But sure, that sort of thing.
Even when he's with the other cabbies, he's just there like he couldn't communicate very well.
He didn't seem to have any interests, film, music, literature.
There was just nothing that he just didn't.
He just seemed empty, you know, almost like he was representative of something instead of a character, a person.
Yeah, out of all of the protags of all of the films we watched, he would be my my least understandable and likable for me.
Oh, I couldn't. I didn't like him at all.
There was nothing to like about him.
There was nothing to grasp onto, nothing to relate to him with, really.
But well, I was just going to say, because Mel, you've seen it as well.
What's it? Do you have any thoughts about Taxi Driver?
Well, it's been a while now that I watched it.
That's why I actually asked yesterday if I want to, if I should rewatch it.
Now I kind of feel bad that I didn't.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't think it's super good as well.
It's like I'm happy I watched it just for comparison, but it's nothing I would watch ever again, to be honest.
Yeah, I wouldn't.
Doesn't he have like this this
romantic thing going on with the girl and the
whatever they do, the the political stuff?
Yeah, yeah, he does.
And that's just miserably when he tries to get her into like a porn cinema.
Yeah. Like, oh, yeah.
Which is like clearly not not right, right.
Minds. I think it's supposed to just be a representation of how his brain works,
because at first he's like, she's a normal people.
She's an angel. No one can touch her.
Yay. And then the second that it goes wrong with her, he's like, she's like all the rest.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's more like it's that one is more of an incel movie than the Joker.
Are they about the same?
I would say I guess Taxi Driver would be by default
because I don't even see how Joker is in any way.
It's quite clear with how Joker is an incel movie.
It's about a guy.
Oh, got it.
I just find it funny that incel movie should be a genre like, oh, yeah,
shit on Netflix and all this required is male protagonist
that we don't see have sex at any point.
Oh, sweet.
Crazy and violent, too.
Yes. Diehard incel movie.
He doesn't have sex in the movie.
OK, psychological thriller, action thriller, incel thriller.
There we go. That's what we want to see.
Incel thriller.
So which which was next?
Is it falling down?
Falling down was the one that we watch next, and I enjoyed it much more.
I don't even know what much that one is.
So the falling down is about
the main main character has.
Let's just say you.
I'm going to describe this and you'll be like, oh,
I can see how this is considered related to Joker.
So it's character who's lost his job.
His mother is well, I was about to say overbearing,
but I guess we don't get to know a lot about that, but lives with his mother.
His mother is an overbearing.
I would say that it's kind of the opposite.
And it seems to be afraid of him.
She seemed the mother seemed to be afraid of him.
Like she knew that he was prone to just snapping.
She displayed to the detectives, to the police officers there.
She displayed a real sense of fear that they were there.
A lot of apprehension when they went into his room, she said,
you know, don't tell him I let you in here and all that sort of stuff.
So she clearly was had had a had a level of fear about him.
He sort of dominated that.
So what a chat said in cell doesn't mean what you think it means.
Well, it's like involuntary cell of it.
I'm joking that all you need to do to be labeled an in cell movie now
is to have a male character who's not having sex at the time of seeing them
in the movie, that seems to be all that, you know, but but maybe there's more to it
because because the effect that he imagines a girlfriend and Joker,
that's enough to be like, see itself.
It's like, OK, OK. All right. All right.
And someone said I have a bad take on joke, a taxi driver.
I'm just like, I'm not really bothered.
Nothing I said was untrue. Neither of us.
Yeah, neither of us.
I mean, we could back up what we said.
I watched it.
I paid a lot of attention.
Kind of feel like my time was wasted.
We even watched three guides to the movie.
Yeah. And we've been awkward because they got a couple of facts wrong
several times, but hey, like we had to correct the video essays about them
because they were just objectively making wrong statements about it.
I just didn't my chalk.
Just didn't didn't like it.
But I know I could tell when I watched it.
Yep, I can see why this is one of the sacred cows.
But oh, well, that's that's the one thing that I recognize, much like
the Godzilla fan base or certain certain other events of a history
to criticize taxi drivers.
You're not allowed to do that, but we don't really care.
Like we'll just happily move on.
We're just like, oh, well, that was that.
Falling Down doesn't have that kind of like, like defensive shield.
As far as I know, it's especially because it's a Joel Schumacher film,
which he's nowhere near as respected as Scorsese.
But I prefer falling down.
I actually very much understood everything pretty much definitively.
And you can tell that there's a lot in that movie that's littered
into trying to just represent everyday life for the,
I guess, living the American dream, quote unquote.
But the I think I think it could work with
American beauty as another film of just being like,
it's supposed to be working, but it's not that sort of thing.
And just all of the the issues you'll discover over time
in your lives that can be related to the one that I just I just really like
was the because they're all good, I think, to a degree.
But the the construction workers, just the immediate
like you guys are wasting time and you waste time
because you need to waste time to get better contracts in future.
If you take longer and need more money to do X, Y and Z,
then they'll give you more in future or maintain the same.
And so all of this is just bullshit.
And you're making everybody late and you're cutting off good roads.
He just has an RPG or bazooka or whatever.
And he just there's a lot of obviously he's reckless as hell.
But the movie ramps up with every scenario
starting out quite calmly with traffic.
Yeah, it starts off with traffic.
Very relatable moves over towards overpriced items
in a little supermarket, a little corner store.
Very, very relatable stuff.
And then it just goes up and up and up.
He's certainly a lot more empathetic,
certainly a lot more relatable than Travis Bickle is.
And we'll see.
I think that a lot of people would consider the difference between those two
as ones a film, the other ones more of an art film.
Taxi Driver is more of a much higher tier of movie.
It's much more respected.
Falling Down is much more of a casual movie
that has a lot of casual traits, I suppose.
But I have been seeing a lot of
strong feelings for falling down.
A lot of people seem to like it, which is interesting.
I've just seen the character before.
I just Google it really quickly.
I've definitely seen that
character somewhere before.
I mean, it's a it's a nice, it's a tragic little story.
I think I think what brings it all together is the when he looks
at his tapes of himself with his family and how he can see himself
being overtaken by temper that's brought on.
The implication is that it's brought on by all of the little things
in life, everything, just getting to him slowly and that
he uses the small amounts of money that he has to support his family
to buy things and provide for them.
And if they if they aren't enjoying it or using it,
it's making him more and more frustrated because that's how
everything's supposed to work, that sort of thing.
And so you could just, I don't know, understand his frustration.
And you get a B plot of of understanding the cop
that takes him down the whole time as well.
Yeah, they mesh really well together.
I I thought that the the the cop and
the protagonist, I thought they I thought both their stories
kind of running parallel was done really well and both well acted.
And you're glad that things kind of turn out the way that they do.
And wraps everything is wrapped up fairly neatly.
But the dude in the the the the
was the store called the the type of store.
The the Nazi, the Nazi dude.
Oh, like army surplus.
That was the one. Yeah, he was he was a bit weird.
Yeah, kind of kind of weird, kind of a weirdo guy.
But yeah, he did all get sorted out.
So there was that one then then
King of Comedies after that, right?
After that, we watched King of Comedy, which I liked quite a bit.
I really like King of Comedy.
I guess to be simplified, King of Comedy is about a an aspiring comedian
who idolizes a talk show host
and he's trying to find any way he can to break out.
And I don't know who lived the dream of being a successful comedian.
And the film sort of he tries a lot in the film,
leading ultimately up to kidnapping, said the host.
And the movie starts off with with him
really wanting to willing to start off the bottom sort of.
He starts off the bottom.
He's wants to get into the show business with his name.
Jerry, Jerry, Jerry Lewis. Yeah, Jerry Lewis.
Well, in real life, in the film is Jerry Langford, I think.
Yeah, Jerry Langford, that's it.
And then he tries to get in with him, tries to get he gets obsessive.
And you get to see Jerry Langford's his lament about being famous.
He's always being troubled and assaulted and all that good stuff.
But the thing is, he doesn't.
The main character does get what he wants in the end.
His his kidnapping play works.
After that, he he writes a book, gets a million dollars.
It's it's kind of the opposite with the kind of like a dark version
or the inverse version of your traditional American dream
where you how you work, you we work hard and you work diligently.
And then you achieve your dreams.
He just kind of skipped to the top and committed a crime,
lazily committed a crime and then got rewarded with everything he wanted.
I find that interesting movie.
One of the most subversive parts of that movie is the fact that his set
isn't too bad, like the jokes he actually delivers once he gets on there.
It's like, oh, pretty good.
Yeah, you expect it to be terrible and horrible and cringy and awful.
But the jokes are actually pretty good.
He's he kills it on stage.
Everyone laughs. Everyone loves him.
And I thought that was going to turn out to be one of those
those elaborate fantasies he has.
But as opposed to Arthur Fleck, he actually is in control of his fantasies.
He knows when he's doing them.
So it turned out to be actually real, which was interesting.
I did not see that one coming.
That one actually successfully severed my expectations.
I didn't expect it either.
It caught me off guard.
I was like, oh, wow.
And then when we watched it again, it was the when we watched it today.
That was the second time I'd seen it.
So all of that stuff is recontextualized and we picked up a lot of, you know,
how the dialogue was very interesting now that we knew that, you know,
it was on his head and stuff like that.
It it it owes itself to a second viewing that I think is really well written.
Oh, I recommend it.
And because they built up the entire movie that he's going to be this.
He's this guy who thinks he's a big shot.
The very first thing we see him say
or one of the first things we see him say is that I know I'm dynamite.
I know I'm really good.
And, you know, we we have the same vision of him
as probably the comedian character, the Jerry character.
And that, oh, yeah, he just thinks he's good.
He's not really that good. He's an amateur.
He's just starting out.
He needs to start at the bottom, work at the comedy clubs.
And then he turns in his video tape or not video tape, but his tape of his set.
And they said, yeah, you got some good things in there, but it's polishing.
So obviously, by the very end, by the time he gets on the stage,
it's you're you're kind of set and ready to hear his cringy jokes.
But he kills it. He's really good.
And it's he succeeds.
It's worth mentioning, though, that with that film and Taxi Driver and Joker,
there's still discussion to this day, despite what the creators say.
About each film that whether or not the endings are all real or not.
And now Taxi Driver,
I believe the producer Robert De Niro and Scorsese have all said it's real,
but people still say that it's a it's a fantasy at the end because he actually
died or that he's actually in jail and that he sees himself as the hero.
And that's why he's imagining it for Joker.
It's it's the Joker.
It's take any selection of the movie and it could be real, could be not.
The whole thing could be real, could be not like a lot of people running with that.
And then with King of Comedy, it's that he never
I guess he's like he may never have left jail and that he was never successful.
And that there are there are visual cues to imply that he may very well
still be in jail or that it is real.
It's it's very it's you know, it's interesting to talk about
in terms of what the references may or may not show.
But I don't I don't find it useful to just be like, was it all a dream?
I don't know. Moving on.
You're like, OK, I personally dislike that whole it was all a dream.
I prefer it to be to be real if I can if it can be argued that the whole thing was real.
But within the case of of Putton, I think that is his name.
He has keep forgetting his name.
But the the main character, Putton, he is he we get to see him.
He has a very vivid imagination.
He has a very vivid imagination.
He has very vivid fantasies.
And we get to see him are kind of playing one out as if
he and the comedian character, the Jerry character, were friends and colleagues.
And he gets so into it that he kind of disregards real life.
So it could be argued on that note that the very end, all of that,
all of his success, his million dollar book deal, his him having his own
comedy set and people introducing him and people loving him in his red suit.
That's that could be yet another elaborate fantasy that is actually foreshadowed
in the beginning of the movie.
So it could be argued that it's real.
It could be argued that it's not real.
It's what could be plausible.
And I would say that of the three, the most ambiguous ending,
like if you were going to say of all the three, if the three endings were a dream
or a hallucination or whatever, I think King of Comedy is the one you could most
justify with it. Yeah.
You're a taxi driver.
I don't think you really could much at all for Joker.
I don't think you could either, especially when it pulls away from his perspective
to Thomas and Thomas, his wife, the Waynes getting killed.
Yeah, he I don't think he would.
He certainly wouldn't imagine her getting killed.
He wouldn't want that.
We see him sparing people who are nice to him.
That's kind of his whole deal.
He has a system, his structure.
Now, but with King of Comedy, you're like, oh, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe this is
just I like the I think it's it could happen.
I think that if someone managed to bother their way onto a thing with like
kidnapping or blackmail away or whatever, that if they had a good enough set
that they'd have enough fans to pull them back into the spotlight.
OK. Possible.
And yeah, Rupa Kupkin is his name and Kupkin's name, Rupa Kupkin.
That's it. They pronounce it wrong throughout the film.
It's a good running joke.
Rupa Kupkin is here, Rupa Kupkin, yeah.
And Pipkin and stuff like that is like one thing I really liked about his
character, Rupert Pumpkins character, was that he'd never changed his demeanor,
really, but he went from a guy you saw as a normal enthusiastic guy who was really
energetic, really passionate about his his chosen path of comedy, being a comedian
like the like Jerry.
And without him changing his demeanor, he goes from a guy you might see
as just endearingly enthusiastic, endearingly passionate to someone who is
insane by the time he does the kidnapping portion of it.
He's the part that really like sells the up in has
problems to me is when because I think one of the first illusions we see
is like reasons to imagine that it might actually be happening,
but it's a bit confusing.
But then once you discover it's like, oh, none of these are happening,
like they're very vivid.
And I think that so the first.
So him getting in the car with him, that is, I understand, supposed to be real.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
That's the interaction that he uses with his obsessive mind
to base everything else on.
He hangs on to it.
And it essentially is the the spark that starts everything
becoming just worse and worse.
And you get the one where he's like talking to him about how he should come
to his house and stuff, and then he actually turns up there with it
with a girl who's who's not in all the delusions.
So she's like, wait, what?
Yeah, it's cool.
You're friends with this very famous person.
And all of a sudden, no, he's not really.
They're calling the cops.
And he's like, you know, you're just like all the rest.
You're a terrible person immediately turns on him instead of him being like a hero.
Um, yeah.
And that's when it gets cranked up to kidnapping, which.
Is she carries out with like, like a literature devil said,
his demeanor doesn't really change for the whole thing.
He has this very cool, collected kind of aloofness.
He it's almost just like, well, I guess the next step is kidnapping.
And he is very logical, kind of.
He's sure that he's good.
So he just needs his break.
That's that's all this is.
He's he's just certain that as long as he gets people to listen to his jokes,
give him a chance that he'll be successful.
And it turns out he was.
And I think the fact that his routine that's shown at the end being so good,
it kind of indicates him in a way where you feel like, OK,
Rupert has he actually is good.
And maybe that's part of it that really frustrates him.
Like he he has an act of all these guys.
He really does have an understanding of good comedy.
And that's one of the reasons why he feels so frustrated,
why he feels like he needs to go to these extreme lengths
because he knows in his head that my stuff really is good.
He's not just being denied for the for the black.
It is simultaneously a bit of a crazy person as in for what we see.
He's like, yeah, it's a bit crazy as well.
That's what mixes it.
Yeah, no, it's why I do like that movie quite a bit.
Some very interesting idea to the whole film focused around
just a character who wants to be a successful TV host like.
And I think when I'd first seen it, I didn't expect him to freaking kidnap him.
I was like, whoa, no, yeah, because he seems kind of meek.
You know, he doesn't seem like he doesn't seem too confrontational,
at least not to that degree.
But he never comes across as malicious.
If anything comes across as desperate.
And he doesn't want to hurt anybody.
He just really feels like this is the the last option for him
to see his dream happen.
And then you were never really there.
That was the the other one.
That was the other one.
Yeah, I say that's probably the most art film out of the four, actually.
If we're going to get that genre as ill defined as it is.
Yeah, so that's a movie about an ex veteran
who takes what you could call like wet work jobs to try and rescue.
Slash, it's complicated because we don't know exactly, but we see him.
The job that we see in the film is he's trying to rescue a little girl
from being like essentially sex trafficked, I think.
And, you know, throughout the film, you discover more and more of his
his past that brought him to where he is more about himself.
And there's a bit of a subversion
in terms of there's like a final fight, but it doesn't end the way you'd expect.
Because the the girl in question, I don't know how much I should say.
I don't know how many people have seen it, but.
The reason why it's relevant is it's a film with Joaquin Phoenix
with mental illness, a mental illness, and he lives with his mother like that
is the the connective issue to Joker, I imagine.
But again, I don't know if we've specified this yet,
but these films are all extremely different from Joker.
Yeah. Which would you say is the closest to Joker?
Um. It's not.
This is the thing, I suppose you can pull pieces out of all of them.
Yeah, there's pieces in all of them.
I would say that the king of comedy is the closest to Joker,
but that's not saying a lot because it's not to say that's very different.
There are several, several parallels between team comedy
and the story of our Arthur Flick and the Joker.
I mean, the Rupert Pumpkin lives.
I mean, he kind of he lives with his mom.
It's very clear.
He goes that he has these elaborate fantasies.
He wants to actually.
Is it clear that he really lives with his mom?
Well, he hears her voice.
We don't ever actually hear her voice.
He might. And you know, there is that
there is a fact that he made that joke during his set.
That, you know, he's been dead for nine years.
So she might be dead in his mind.
She might be an illusion.
But his mother is a factor in there like a
she's somewhere in his mind somewhere.
So there's the mother factor that she's still with him.
And then there is a fact that he wants to.
He has an obsession over a talk show host,
stand up comedian sort of character.
But their motivations are different.
Their goals are different.
But I could see a lot of parallels between the two characters
and their two characters journeys.
Yeah, I think there's the closest.
It's closest there. Yeah.
But man, are they different, though?
Like very good.
First of all, just just go as far as being like jokers
clearly on a a more murderous path.
Let's put it that way, because the conclusion for both characters
is dramatic, dramatically different.
The world they're living in is dramatically different.
The motivation is both similar and different,
as in both aspiring comedians.
But that is and that stays
Rupert's motivation and conclusion with the film.
But but jokers evolves.
So I think Rupert Pumpkins, his goal, his entire goal
is to become famous so that all the dreams you see him have can come true.
He wants he has a very, very vivid imagination.
We can see vividly all the things he wants to happen.
He wants to become famous.
He wants all the people who disliked him or wronged him
to just come back and apologize, to acknowledge to him
that they were wrong for doubting him to marry the woman of his dreams.
All the good stuff. Joker, Arthur Fleck, on the other hand,
he's not really looking for fame specifically.
He is looking for meaning in his life, some sort of identity.
And that plays into the main themes of the Joker movie.
Yeah. And I get.
Well, I was going to say, I didn't mean to skip over.
You were never really there. But that is
I just I don't know.
It feels like out of the out of the four that we've got over,
that's probably what the people haven't seen the most.
And so I just I just figure that it's probably better not to say
to put a beat on.
It's a it's rather non-linear.
And the interesting thing that I found was that it was almost recommended.
Right. By several people.
But if you look at the reviews for it, that that film has been quite
beaten, let's say, like people like it, people are very unhappy like it.
Yeah. I didn't dislike it, though.
No, I didn't dislike it.
I was actually quite hooked for a while, too. Yeah.
And Joaquin does does fantastically in it.
Or trying this because a lot of the film is very focused on on abuse
and what it does to a person.
It's very clear in the protagonist and the
the the girl in question, the girl attempted to be saved.
Again, I'm just trying to avoid going any further than that.
But it was check it out, people.
It's going to it's going to pop up from what I know,
because these are the films that are all referenced by Ralph.
Be instead, we can we can talk more about them as we get there.
Also, it's called You Were Never Really Here.
I think I may have said they were.
I don't even remember what the name of it was.
It's the shout out to I conquer in the chat.
He said, actually, Bugs Life is just a were seven samurai.
There you go.
Never really thought about that way, but I guess you could make that argument.
Yeah, well, I suppose that'll bring us nicely into the next topic
that we should probably go over, which is what is the difference
between referencing something, being an homage to something,
being inspired by something and ripping off something?
Apparently, if you hate something, it's ripped.
They ripped it off. If you like something, it was inspired by it.
Yeah, it's a perfect next question.
And depending on how broad you are, you can start to connect basically anything like
what film am I describing?
A group of individuals work together to go on an adventure
to prevent a dark force from essentially
tightening its stranglehold over the world.
Oh, Lord of the Rings.
Nope. Star Wars.
Every movie ever.
And obviously, you might be like, that's way too broad.
And I'm like, well, I don't know, it feels like people get very broad
when it comes to blaming ripoffery for a lot of stuff.
Captain Marvel.
Yes, I described Captain Marvel, the the team, our Captain Marvel and Fury.
And the dark force is what's his name, Jude Law.
He's the kind of Jude Law stranglehold over the world.
Blue Bloodman.
Someone said Incredibles.
The Warriors, Ghostbusters, Avengers, Suicide Squad.
I think Lord of the Rings is probably the most the thing you'd expect,
especially because it's because I said dark.
I think most people will be like, oh, Mordor.
Oh, that's what I was thinking.
You said a group of individuals, also known as a group.
Yes. Yeah, that was almost misdirection.
I was just like trying to extend it.
Like imagine multiple individuals,
many of them more than one of varying heights.
So, yeah, I guess the question becomes because there are a couple of videos
that believe Joker is blatantly stolen from Scorsese.
Others feel that it's simply inspired and taking from great works,
you know, just moving.
And that's what a lot of people, whenever you do an analysis of Star Wars,
people always want to mention the the Flash Gordon serials
or the influences from Japanese movies,
plus a combination with Western iconography and stuff like this.
And do you like did you rip those things off?
You're like, no, no, no, no.
They never say that in a derogatory way.
They say it was inspired by. Right.
Well, and that's the interesting thing, because we agree that ripoffs are a thing.
Right. So what movies are ripoffs?
And I assume one of the first things people are going to want to reference
is like Lion King to the White Wolf or whatever, or the.
Yeah, as far as I haven't seen Kimba.
But I hear it's a ripoff.
Yes. I keep hearing.
Yeah, I've heard the same thing.
Is you never hear it was it was a an homage.
You never hear that it's a or even a retelling.
It's just like, no, I ripped it off.
I guess a classic example, probably be a new Hope versus Force Awakens.
Was awakened depending on where you stand on that, I suppose,
because a lot of people are like, no, it's just trying to tell the same story
but to a newer audience and then other people are like, no, it ripped it off
and it ripped it off poorly.
You can tell the same story without just copy and pasting
all the major plot points, but poorly over to your new movie.
And so I guess a big or laser.
Our task today is to figure out what what Joker has done
and to address and and clarify these these perspectives
from a certain Ralph, the movie maker to see if they live in water.
People are saying that Kimba and Lion King are vastly different.
So if that is the case, I'm ready to believe it.
I just I just yeah, this is going strictly from what I've heard.
I have not looked into it.
I think I looked into it a long time ago.
This a little bit.
I didn't actually watch any of it.
I just read about what the synopsis was.
And I think the Kimba, the White Lion actually goes to the real world
that the the human world and hangs out over there for a while.
Simba doesn't do that.
So I'm not really sure what the series is about, but distinctly remember
that Kimba, the White Lion somehow makes his way to to the human world
and stays with them.
So that's not what Simba does.
So it doesn't seem like a ripoff at that moment.
So I don't know. I'm not really sure.
But I'm absolutely ready to believe that YMS talked about it on his stream
and said examples used to say that Lion King was a ripoff as super cherry picked.
I can see that. Oh, yeah.
I mean, oh, apparently YMS is actually going to go through it.
All right. Yeah, I'll I'll check that out.
If he does, that'd be interesting.
Someone saying Willow and Lord of the Rings.
I mean, there are there are things for sure.
Yeah, I think it was actually an inspiration.
Lord of the Rings was actually an inspiration for Willow,
because I think George Lucas wanted to make his own Lord of the Rings.
He did. Well, yeah, he wanted the rights to Lord of the Rings
to make them into movies. He couldn't get them.
And so that's how the story goes is he was like, fine, I'll make my own.
It's like, all right. Well, I mean, I've seen I know Lord of the Rings
and Willow pretty well, and I don't really like Willow that much.
But I don't know.
I don't think I would be comfortable calling it a ripoff of Lord of the Rings.
It depends on your definition.
Like if someone was like, he's clearly trying to be Lord of the Rings.
I'd be like, I mean, I guess there's a lot of differences.
One of the weird things to me is that there is a fellowship,
but they disband like in the first, I want to say 20 minutes of their adventure.
They just they all go back home.
And Willow's like, OK, I need to carry on.
But he meets up with Val Kilmer's character and Val Kilmer's character
is the one that a lot of people will say, like, saves the film
in terms of entertainment value in a lot of ways.
Willow was a good movie.
I like I wouldn't say it's a good movie, but in my opinion,
I really like that movie.
I mean, I haven't seen Willow yet.
It's it's interesting.
We could check that out sometime if you want to.
But I've heard it's interesting.
And I've heard that some people really love it.
And I've heard some people think it's terrible.
So one of these days we got to add it to the list.
Go ahead and add it to the list of movies we got to watch.
It's I guess that's it for the the movies
that we had to watch for Homework, right?
Because then we watched the other things we've been watching
and more just Oscar nominated films that we need to catch up on
in terms of what's good that came out.
I don't know if we want to talk about that or not.
We probably save it for another time.
But yeah, we could save it for another time or we could just briefly
just a brief. We saw this and we thought this.
Maybe just give people a little little updates.
Let me actually go through our downloads,
let's see all the stuff that we've been watching.
I think forever my download, I need to clear out my downloads folder.
Oh, well, from memory.
I mean, we can stay vague, but yeah, we saw Jojo Rabbit and it was really good.
Give it a give it a big thumbs up.
Big thumbs up for Jojo Rabbit.
I know what you saw in the 1970s literature devil,
which one was first off, first off, literature devil.
OK, your name is six syllables.
So we're going to have to do some about that.
What? What do you what do you normally go by?
If you were shorting it down to Lit Dev, Lit Dev.
Mm hmm.
Oh, you devil.
Fucking devil.
Can we call you Satan already of darkness?
The Lord of Lies.
No, we found out from infinite isms.
The devil never welches on a deal or whatever.
OK, then he can't.
Then let's make a deal.
Satan, you tell I'll ask you a question and you answer it.
So did you see Jojo Rabbit?
Did you like it?
I have not seen Jojo Rabbit.
No. All right.
We saw The Lighthouse.
Yes, I liked it.
I like it, too.
I liked it.
It's it's not a conventional movie in any means.
No, it's kind of it's like it's artsy, but in like a good way,
like legitimately actually a good way.
I was really, really, really.
And holy shit, Willem Dafoe.
Holy shit, man.
The fact that he was not nominated for some award is a crime.
I don't understand how that happened either.
You watch him with that film, but he is that character.
Willem Dafoe is God.
He's just this the old man.
Very well, he did very well.
Did you see The Lighthouse, Satan?
No, I haven't seen that one either.
Well, maybe you saw the other movie that we watched.
This actually in reverse order.
I'm going because I'm coming from left to right.
I'm a download folder.
We saw Parasite.
Yes. Parasite was good.
Are you and I the only ones who've seen that here?
I think so. I don't know what the fuck that is.
OK, well, yes.
Parasite was very good.
Yes. The just just every every filmmaking element was was was popping.
And a really, really cool story that I felt I hadn't really seen before.
And it's it was only after the when when the like to remain vague
when the brother begins to bring the sister in there, I was like, wait a minute.
Yeah, what's happening here?
I think the end was a bit tismy.
There's some tisms there. Sure.
But man, still absolutely worth watching.
Go watch Parasite.
Go watch The Lighthouse.
Go watch Jojo Rabbit 1917.
Go watch 1917.
Oh, yeah, I watched that yesterday in the cinema.
It was very good.
Go watch it again again. Good shit.
It was very, very good.
We can we can probably elaborate on them as time goes on.
But obviously we've already we're coming up to an hour long intro here.
So yeah, just a quickie little quickie little, you know, just looking at the
look like the films. Mm hmm.
Brushing up on our I don't know if we're going to do it.
I don't know if we're going to if we're officially going to do the fappies.
But we're the only reason why I'm against it is because of how we haven't seen.
Like, how would it work?
How do we nominate? How do we vote? How does and I know it's all for fun.
So who cares? But I'm like, I don't know.
We can what we can do is we can have personal fappies together.
Oh, no, not again.
We we can do.
I just like the idea that we nominated the chat get to vote on which wins.
I would legitimately be curious to see if we did line them all up,
what the chat would go for.
And then we could measure that against like what the professional award
giver people are at the Oscars or the Oscars if you're in Canada.
Judging from chat, I think Parasite would win.
People are very positive about that one.
Well, I know I have my list of movies
for next week when I'm on the train again for movies that with Parasite,
I wouldn't agree it's the best, but I can certainly see why people think that
because I really liked watching Parasite.
Yes, I don't know if mine is Joker or 1917.
Because I love both of those.
They would be my top two for the year.
Yeah, those would be top two.
I would like to watch 1917 again because Joker's fresh, doubly fresh.
So well, yeah, I guess naturally,
I think that brings us into today's topic, which is I did sort of introduce it
earlier, but Ralph the movie maker made a video and the second he made this
thing, fucking I got obliterated with DMS on Twitter and Discord.
It's like, have you seen this?
You see, okay.
So somebody said that Parasite is a movie about Jay and Eiffel.
We have been parasitic to his channel.
It's true.
Well, I should go for the toilet quickly.
I shall be right back.
Yeah, well, I'm going to go to the toilet before we start.
Fine. I'll do all of the procedural introductionatisms.
Fine. I'm OK with that. Hey, Satan.
Hello. Satan's friendly.
Civil. What do I need?
Yeah, so so I got set this video.
I was like, what the world's going on?
It's just like it's a bad take baller.
It's terrible.
Then I was just like, oh, it's probably not like, you know, that bad.
You check the percentage on it as in the for lack of a better term,
the approval rating, the ratio.
And it was like, I think 70 percent after a few hours.
And I was like, whoa, like whenever that happens,
that means your own fan base is upset.
And it's like, damn.
And I haven't watched this video yet, so I have no idea.
I started it. I didn't finish it.
Is it? I've heard it's really that bad.
Well, you're that bad.
We've got I've got I picked up a selection of comments from his own fan base
after after seeing me and ranks watch six minutes of it.
And we decided, OK, OK, enough.
Like this is we have to talk about this because,
you know, the idea that there are ways to write stories
is enough of an issue for people, as in a lot of people like, no, they're not.
You just do whatever you want.
But the idea that there are ways to write reviews.
Oh, my goodness, we're stepping into very controversial territory.
But I just I don't know.
There's going to be a lot of things he does in this video
that I would very much recommend against.
Why are you being so racist, right?
Yum. So are they going from
people are going from you're watching movies
wrong to writing reviews of movies wrong?
Well, I think that they're both crafts, you know, like
and you can like, first of all, bloody hell.
I get your details right.
That would be very accurate.
Also, I realize that that was an inside joke, so I probably should have done it.
But I called you Literature Angel, the description with your link
of people like, why did you do that?
I'm like, oh, yeah, that wasn't live.
I'll call it devil.
I don't need to explain that.
But it was it was funny.
OK, chat. Jeez.
You wouldn't get it.
It isn't funny, though.
I didn't laugh.
Why? Why must you shout?
Why must why must you be such a belligerent?
No, I may.
We didn't do nothing.
My head is the fridge right now.
Searching for beer.
German and abuse.
What do you mean, search for beer?
Where don't you just isn't it just in your fridge?
That was piled on food, below food.
I know where mine is.
In my belly.
In my belly.
Well, I got Austin Powers.
That's a trilogy I need to rewatch.
I'd like to watch that about every two years or so.
Austin Powers. Yes.
No, I've heard.
I've heard 1917.
It's also a really good move.
And it just involves a bunch of men and more.
So is that also an incel movie?
Yes.
They do not have sex in the movie.
OK, there was no fucking in this fucking.
Like the whole army, all incels out of them knew it
with their wives and children at home, fucking incels.
Oh, I guess we could talk about that really quickly.
But the criticism of 1970 for not having enough women in it, it was like,
what are you?
Come on.
Yeah, it's true to the time.
But I mean, we move past that we move past truth and facts.
We need to be more woke these days.
And there was like, like the argument was obviously
that the counter argument is obviously, but that's accurate.
And then the response is like, how much do we need to?
Like, this is not me saying this.
This is from a tweet.
How much do we need to talk about the world wars?
Like, haven't we done this enough now?
Like, can't we talk about something else?
Can we make stories about other things?
Many, too many movies about these world wars.
Can you imagine?
I mean, what were they anyway?
I mean, just something happened a long time ago.
Who even knows?
Old shit.
Some some guys fire in little pistols and stuff.
Silly.
Some people had disagreements
and some somebody got in the fight.
They had guns, whatever.
I mean, it's a long time ago.
Yeah, sorry, back on track.
So yes, this video.
And so we were told by several other sources
that this video's point is to trap things
like a fap or whatever.
And I was like, huh?
And it's like, there's references at the end
that are almost meta in relation to responding to critics.
And so the theory goes that this video
is presenting poor arguments on purpose
to be like, ha, got you.
Then why block?
Why block?
Well, I was gonna say,
we will not be showing the original on stream today
because we can't.
Ralph has disabled playback
on anything but YouTube with his video.
And this is like the only video he's done that with.
I can't imagine why.
There's no reason I could possibly imagine
why he would do that.
What a mystery.
But of course, people have already,
well, funnily enough, people, I think, re-uploaded it
because he took it down temporarily
to deal with a copyright issue.
And so someone was like,
oh, well, I just have a copy anyway.
So we can play it and watch together.
Yeah, so someone sent us a link.
You know who you are.
Thank you very much for doing that.
Yep.
Because we discovered,
we discovered,
because originally we could watch it.
And then after he,
I guess when he re-uploaded it,
there was some time there around
disabled it for replay on external sites,
which is something that you could do with your videos.
Something that he chose to do.
So, yeah.
Again, I'm not gonna ascribe motivation.
Who knows why he would do that?
There's a myriad of reasons.
And-
Is he scared of,
is he scared?
Is he protecting something?
Is he, I don't know, maybe his hand's slipping.
He just doesn't want people playing it on other sites.
He wants people to be watching on YouTube.
Makes complete sense.
Yeah, he's just protecting the brand, you know?
And so, yeah, it looks like you're all in.
I guess there's nothing else to say other than, yeah.
So we'll check it out.
And if we've been tricked
and this whole thing is a trick, that's fine.
We'll just pretend that some people took
the arguments very seriously,
or think that they're good arguments
and we'll respond to them anyway.
And that, you know, if it's all bullshit,
then that's fine too.
But, you know, we'll see from the tone of the video
if you guys think there's even a hint of that or not.
We'll see.
Yeah, anything else anyone wants to say
before we get started?
Cheers.
I-
Alki.
I think we're good.
Okay then, I'm excited.
Let me pull that cover off.
This is the introduction.
Yeah, okay, so just in case I don't miss it,
it says introduction on screen.
This is, this is it.
So, you know, I don't like to be serious,
but we lost a legend and it's very sad.
In 2016, universally acclaimed actor Jared Leto
took on the role of the Joker
and he gave one of the most memorable performances
of all time.
You want no beef?
You don't want no beef?
You don't want no beef?
You know,
we've talked about,
because me and Rags mentioned it, we were watching Joker.
It's so great that Waki managed to strike it out on his own
and make this new,
or just a different Joker character
while also being in the same zeitgeist
as Heath Ledger's Joker.
But maybe this Joker made it easier
because it's like, oh God, please, anything but this.
Lower the bar, set that bar way lower.
It's as bad as that last guy.
It's amazing how much this Joker was hated,
even though he was just in like a little bit
in Suicide Squad.
Yeah, they, he was very upset, Jared Leto,
that his parts were cut significantly.
In Suicide Squad?
Yeah, yeah.
Apparently he had way more scenes
and it's just interesting to me
because it's like, oh man, I don't know.
Maybe that was for the best.
The editor says, oh, this is his Joker.
We'll have to cut him out.
He's gonna downsize this guy.
I'm an idea.
Please stop it.
Well, I have to say his portrayal of the Joker
was fairly memorable.
That part might be.
Sure, sure.
Have you, wait, have you seen Suicide Squad ranks?
I have not.
It's such a.
I've heard terrible, terrible, terrible.
That's one of the things we watched
when I was first over at Mars.
Yeah, when you first came to visit,
we watched that with alcohol.
It was such an experience.
It's such a tism movie.
We watched Suicide Squad and the Ghostbusters movie.
Oh, but yeah, good stuff, good stuff.
So anyway, it has nothing to do with Ralph's video.
I just, it's just interesting to think about.
Yeah.
You don't like me?
We're gonna miss you, Jared.
I have a very cynical opinion of Joker.
It's so cynical and you can tell I'm annoyed
that I have to watch the movie.
You guys could kind of tell with the Aquaman video.
Oh, they're really running out of ideas, aren't they?
But you could really tell with the Joker.
Are they?
I guess in reference to DC,
I don't know the Aquaman.
That's not what I would have said about Aquaman
after watching it really running out of ideas.
It's just, it's such a fucking crazy rollercoaster,
that movie.
That was added in posts.
That looks like CGI, come on.
That looks like CGI.
I never noticed.
I don't think it looks like CGI.
When I watched this the first time,
I didn't think it was CGI.
Didn't even occur to me.
I mean, yeah, I didn't notice that it was CGI, personally.
I can tell you now it's CGI.
Yeah, even if you, when we first watched this,
we just, we screened this for the first little bit
of this video.
When he said this, I still can't see it.
Maybe I'm, nah.
Yeah, maybe there's telltale elements of CGI
that would give it away, but to me, it looks really good.
Yeah, it looks pretty good to me, proper.
One way or another, nothing wrong with it.
And I'll say that if you are,
I guess if you're covering the Joker
and you know that it's really beloved by a lot of people
and you're gonna take the position
that it's like not good and stuff like that,
I feel like you could have better examples than this.
Well, so strategy, right?
So let's say Rags is making his Joker video
because he fucking hates it, right?
He fucking hates it.
Fucking hate it.
Then he goes, he shows me the video before he's releasing
and he's like, what do you think?
And I go, ooh, ooh, ooh, ouch, oof.
Don't start with this, Rags.
If you wanna say this, move it to way later
because this is gonna give a really bad impression
immediately as to what you're doing with this video.
And then you're like, what do you mean, mewbshlee?
And I'm like, uh, so like, even if this was like hard CGI,
let's just pretend that for a second, like.
So, I think it's just, you know.
This is really your best first step forward.
Yeah, like, I'm not even saying,
because this is me we're talking about, right?
So I'm okay with you bringing this up as a discussion,
but maybe not the first thing,
just especially with a movie like this,
this is one of those divisive ones
that people are testy about,
which is that there's a lot of those.
I have had experience with such things
and maybe I could have been better in terms of strategy
for how I approach a lot of my movie criticism,
but I don't know why you'd open with this.
It's a strange strategy.
Somebody in chat mentioned it could be sugar glass
and I've never heard of that, so I googled it.
And apparently you can,
it's a brittle, transparent form of sugar
used to simulate glass in movies.
Never heard of this.
So that's really interesting.
Well, something else that glib facsimile,
the guy was talking about Blade Runner on episode New Year's Eve.
I can't remember what that was.
He was telling me about how on sets you can have,
it's like a double frame of glass,
as in the first one is not to be broken,
but also not gonna be damaging against the actor's head
while the second pane behind it
is one that's prepared to break
with like a switch or pulley or something like that.
As in, there's a lot of movie making strategies
you can do to it.
And CGI is obviously an option too.
I don't know which of the ones they used.
I can't tell.
So, you know, that's not really the issue.
I think the point overall is, it looks convincing to me.
It's an odd criticism to levy
right at the front of your video.
Yeah, no, that's all, that's all.
I think that if you're gonna put it in,
you might wanna aim for a different time.
Also, the third person of Ralph's commentary.
Yeah, that's a strange format.
Strange format.
And again, this is, I just think it's odd.
I just think it's odd.
So he does, I don't actually know this,
but I'm assuming he does audio commentaries he releases
and he's just clipping out pieces to the show.
Sure.
Yeah.
With the Joker one.
That was added in posts that looks like CGI.
Come on, that looks like CGI.
Was that even necessary?
Some producers are like,
oh, you gotta make it more dramatic.
He's gotta crack them.
Yes, it was necessary.
It really drives home how angry and frustrated he is
at that moment.
I think that at that moment, he just lost his job,
which was basically the one thing that gave Arthofleck
an identifiable identity at the moment.
Yeah, there were two things.
Yeah, he got fired and he learned that his buddy
quasi-set him up to the old man.
Kind of ratted him out.
Yeah.
He hit it.
People are saying that there's spam in chat.
I think that they're making the same mistake I did because-
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Look how much terror is.
I mean, what do you mean?
Um, like, it's got a lot of emojis,
but it's not actually spam.
Well, because they're saying things.
That's kind of why I'm like-
Scroll up a bit.
There's a lot of the same thing,
but it's all different accounts,
so you can't actually block it at once.
Well, they're not, but they're not spam though.
It's just that they stand out a lot more
because they're using the emojis.
Do you think it's supposed to be a clever form of spam?
I don't know.
If anyone wants xxx amateur sex videos, click here,
then there you go.
But they're actually making comments about CGI.
Yeah, some people have really bad takes about CGI,
so that seems like a real comment.
I'm one of them just added you, Rex.
I don't know.
Watch a Jackie Chan movie.
It's everywhere.
There you go.
I don't know.
But I guess-
One of them said his world was cracking around him.
There you go.
That's an insightful kind of thing
that somebody who makes video essays would say.
It's supposed to represent how his world is.
Oh, someone just said they steal comments
from chat to evade spam.
Is that true?
Really?
By having actual messages?
Let's see.
All right, well, let's kick them in.
Well, I was gonna say metal.
Are you able to keep an eye?
Someone is doing something, Rex.
Very clever.
Very clever.
Yeah, sorry.
I mean, this is the thing.
I'm learning.
Bots change all the time.
So if that's what they're doing, that's pretty clever.
Very, very, very clever.
Yeah, I have to admit it is clever, but annoying.
Clever, but annoying.
Clever, but annoying.
They're even copying Rhino Milk emoji.
Oh my God.
Oh my goodness.
They're cloning the toxic brew.
They're learning.
By the way, there was a obvious,
I've been told by some very,
for people who know what they're talking about,
that the Rhino scene,
the scene where Luke drinks the milk,
the best scene in the entirety of Star Wars.
Very good authority.
So I've been told.
Patrick Willems loved it.
He was one of his favorites.
Also, if you don't like that scene,
then you were a bigot and all that stuff.
That's really fascinating though,
the arc of these bots,
as in I went from thinking they were spam,
to not spam, to spam.
One of them said rags, it's spam.
No, I've been betrayed by my own tent.
Curse you, me.
All right.
Well, I was going to say, I think,
yeah, Dustbullshit and Metal and possibly a few others,
they should be here if you'll do a,
just knock them out casually
while we're checking this.
Yeah, just give them the old.
We don't, I don't like chat to be disturbed.
I'm sorry, chat.
I do try to keep you guys in good health.
I know we're burning up precious, precious time.
Yeah, how many fucking comes are they?
I know, right?
Fucking hell, Dustbull.
I picture the chat with like a cancerous tuba.
That was the character I noticed.
Like, argh.
We try to remove the tuba.
Maybe I can, can I block via account names
versus what they say?
Well, you can,
you can like hide user on the channel, so.
Yeah, it's just this one at a time.
Hopefully, I mean,
because I hate to essentially put mods
through the fucking.
Yeah.
This is why, this is why you are given the wrench.
Yes.
This is why, this is your holy duty.
I like that the chat's trying to counter with Rhino Milk.
It's like, fight back.
It's not helping.
Spam them right now.
We'll use our spam to fight their spam.
Spam all good for now.
Yeah, I mean, just, just,
if whoever mods are around, if you can just stay on it,
that'd be, thank you, thank you very much.
Sorry, xxx amateur sex videos.
Also, I like how, I like how in the super chat stream,
it's like, oh no, that's not actually a spam bot.
And I was like.
Yeah, I was thinking,
since we were supposed to be five men today,
and since this person has actually name dropped
in text in this video,
we could go ahead and add a mystery fifth guest
instead of our standard.
Oh my God, it's Ronald Reagan.
Why not Jeff?
Ronald Reagan wore a beanie in it.
Someone just emailed, someone just texted me.
I won't tell you who.
Do you get Honeycrisp or Gala apples?
What?
Neither?
I don't know, I just,
someone just texted me that.
I like the fucking Jay just said in chat,
hey, I answered your DM.
It's like, you're in the.
He had his chance, kick him.
He's weird.
He set his Discord notifications to like less than zero.
Like he just is completely unaware.
Less than zero.
Someone calls someone Discord and something else goes off.
Well, Jay, you can get in if you want to.
That is my position on this, okay.
All right.
They're really running out of ideas, aren't they?
But you can really tell what the Joker won.
That was added in posts that looks like CGI, come on.
Also, I know we're really, really harping on this,
but that seems like an odd,
this seems like a really odd comment to make
after the Aquaman, oh, they're running out of ideas
and they chose this.
Like the idea.
Maybe that was the end of a point
and this is the beginning of a new point.
Hello.
Jay, what do you think about Taxi Driver?
I think I've not seen it.
What do you think?
What did you think about falling down?
I've not seen that either.
Fuck, what do you think about Parasite?
I've not seen any of these films.
Fuck, what do you think about Tris?
1917 is the only one you're talking about that I've seen.
Rex didn't say 1970, you've broken the tone.
I was gonna, so at least he would understand
the depth of my disappointment.
I'll tell you what happened there, by the way,
is that I was on my PC when I sent the Discord message
and then I didn't think you'd seen it at all.
So I turned off my PC and I was on my laptop
and then you added me to the call and I was like,
oh God, I'm not ready.
And I hurriedly turned on my PC.
I wasn't ready.
You're incompetent and that is the way I love you, okay?
I wouldn't want it any other way.
There is a link you can find in the chat
to the watch together, Mr. J.
What if I don't wanna click it?
You don't have to, but it's gonna be confusing
to stay abreast of the situation.
Yeah.
That looks like CGI.
It's got me at the beginning.
We're talking about CGI, potentially CGI glass.
Let's play this part another time.
Hell yeah, CGI glass.
Oh my God, CGI.
In posts, that looks like CGI.
Come on, that looks like CGI.
Was that even necessary?
Some producers are like, I need to make it more dramatic.
He's got his crack.
Yeah, in case, my take,
I think you guys can imagine this,
but that's how hard he hit it.
Yes.
That's the point.
He's, this man is coming to the end of his rope.
Yes, he is very, very aggravated.
People are so like defensive.
No, here's the thing, like explain to us, Ralph,
why would it be better if the glass was unbroken?
I think it would have been worse, actually,
because that was supposed to be a dramatic moment.
And imagine how much drama would have been taken away.
How much seriousness would have been taken away
to hit his head on the glass and boom, ow.
The bounces.
He's like, ow.
He's not like Kyler Reinhardt in a meeting scene.
Oh God, yeah, true.
Ow.
Ow.
Well, we're in those last words.
Yeah, famous last words from supervillain Kyler Rein.
Ow.
He actually doesn't get to say anything
in that final scene, fuck.
Yep.
I mean, I think it might be on the same level
as Captain Kirk in that Star Trek movie
where his last words were, oh my, oh my.
You say that like those epic last words.
Hey, listen, well, hey,
what were Kylo Ren's last words?
Well, where have you been?
Ouch.
That's what we were just saying.
That's like the whole.
His last words were ouch.
That was a whole conversation.
Fuck.
To be fair, ouch is the really appropriate last words.
Well, I think the idea is that it sums up his character,
doesn't it?
Ouch.
I would argue that his last words
actually sum up the entire sequel series.
Ouch.
Ouch.
Yeah.
It's just the summary's a misstep.
They stood on a Lego where they were like, ah.
Oh, geez.
Captain.
All right, anyway, let's roll him back.
Let's get the full context for the next point.
No.
It would have been better if it just didn't do that.
People are so defensive about it
because it's a comic book movie.
I wish this movie was about insult.
Oh, because it's a comic book movie.
Wait, what's that?
All right.
Stop, stop, stop.
People are very defensive about it
because it's a comic book movie.
Here's what he said.
It's not really good.
The Joker is a comic book character.
It's the most un-comic book movie comic book movie
I've ever seen.
I mean, yeah, if we're gonna talk about
the sort of trope source or elements of comic book movies
we're so used to, this movie kind of isn't really
gunning for those at all.
It breaks away.
First being R-rated.
How many comic book R-rated are there now?
It's Deadpool, Logan, and this.
Is that it?
I guess.
Is Suicide Squad R-rated?
That doesn't count.
I don't even think it is, actually.
I'm not sure.
Is Blade?
Blade was pretty violent.
Squad rating.
It was rated PG-13, which means it's rated pretty good
by 13 people.
Well, I'm wondering why.
Next on our list is Blade.
Blade, not Blade Runner.
We're talking Blade, Black Blade, Wesley Snack.
When was the first one?
When did it come out?
I wanna say early 19s.
19, it'll autofill.
98, thank you, Little Rock.
Oh, late 90s.
It was a long time ago.
It was rated...
Fuck.
I'll let you find the rating.
Fuck.
That's an interesting rating, I think.
It's rated F for fuck vampires.
Well, it's 18 in Germany, at least.
Oh, it was, apparently, Watchmen was R-rated as well.
Oh, yeah, that's gotta be R-rated.
Definitely R-rated.
Yeah, all I was saying with that is that,
first of all, it puts it into a very small tier list
of even movies that are even allowed to...
Like, obviously, blood is typically avoided
in a lot of comic book movies,
because being a comic book movie means
that they kind of want to appeal to a large audience.
And I'm not going the Patrick Willems route.
He looks like an N64 bottle.
Oh, my God.
Hey, man, Blade is awesome.
How dare you?
Oh, look at his face.
Look at his face.
He looks...
He legit looks like he's...
I can see what you mean by that.
Looks like he's from Tomb Raider 2.
Steve and Dolph.
The CGI in that movie.
I'm here to raid your tomb.
You gotta see Blade.
Put it on the list.
We gotta see Blade.
Oh, the list is getting too big.
It's terrifying.
The power of an immortal.
The soul of a human.
The heart of a hero.
Wesley Snipes.
That sounds pretty gay.
Yeah, I mean, I'm on board.
Stephen Dolph.
So...
Stephen Dolph, where's that?
It's on the poster.
If we're going pragmatically, though,
it is a comic book movie in that it is an adaptation
of a comic book character from a comic book, right?
So...
Yeah, Jad saying he looks like Black JC Denton.
He does.
Maybe you should get a job.
But I wanna highlight, by the way,
that being defensive because comic book,
I mean, don't people like openly despise
a lot of comic book movies?
Like Suicide Squad?
Yeah.
Captain Marvel.
Captain Marvel.
A lot of disdain toward Marvel in general.
Like, I know you guys must have seen comments
like, ugh, Marvel movies.
Well, yeah, people make it all the time.
And we got upset at them for making those comments
because they love them all together
like they're all the same thing.
But it's like...
Crisis Infinite Earth, now it's like that.
Even shit that's like, TLJ Defenders,
I don't think you'd catch us saying,
oh, people only defend it because it's a Star Wars movie.
Like, no, they have like reasons that they're wrong.
Yeah, well, I mean, I don't think there is a person
who defends it because it's Star Wars
because Star Wars is such a crazy collection
of all these different things at this point.
Like, there's gonna be people,
but that's almost impossible now.
Like, it usually sits in with one of the many factions,
sequels, prequels, OT, or Clone Wars,
or Mandalorian now, you know, lots of different things
and what actually makes a Star Wars movie
a Star Wars movie.
But yeah, people are over to the defensive
because it's comic book.
I'd be like, that's pretty vague, but all right.
It's like, if you can find the one person
who is saying, is making that argument,
that's not representative.
There are lots of people who have reasons
they actually like this film,
and it's pretty shitty to just dismiss them all like that.
Well, so yeah, and again about strategy
in terms of video essays,
like starting out with accounting
for people who would disagree with you immediately.
Like, you can do it, I think, feasibly.
It's just that it will give a strong impression
to a lot of people already.
Like, wow, you're like pre-bitter
about how people are gonna live.
Hmm, well, it depends how you do it.
Yeah, that's what I was saying.
And a lot of people have told me
that context for this is apparently he was like
partially hounded by his own fan base
to make a Joker video
because of the fact that he has
untraditional views on it, which makes sense, I think.
Like, if we were to come out and say,
I don't know, the same thing.
Like, the Joker was this garbaged, awful movie
that people would be like,
can you tell us why specifically in detail or whatever?
And I guess this was his response.
And so he felt like he had to account
for the fact that people are gonna be pissed at him.
He knew that, but I don't know his strategy
in putting that in his video managed to translate well.
Let's put it that way.
Let's kick on, shall we?
Better if it just didn't do that.
People are so defensive about it
because it's a comic book movie.
I wish this movie was about incels.
At least it wouldn't be so boring.
That cut, though, that cut bugs me.
It bugs me.
It bugs me.
Was the cut like that because all of those clips
were for his audio commentary?
Well, no, before it, he had a weird audio inconsistency, too.
But if you're going like from a tactical perspective,
if you're making a movie,
talk about how a Joker's not very good,
then insulting your audience,
probably not that like, for instance,
we're gonna have a Mandalorian Efap.
And after the Mandalorian Efap,
I'm gonna make a Mandalorian video
telling people how terrible the writing is.
It's how it's actually a bad show.
I'm not gonna insult people
and tell them that they're bad and horrible
and that they're bad for liking doo-doo.
We haven't gone to that yet.
But yeah, maybe he'll say something.
Because at this point, it's like shaky ground.
It's like, this is great, but I have.
It's fine, it's fine.
We'll see how it progresses.
Like defensive about it because it's a comic book movie.
I wish this movie was about incels.
At least it wouldn't be so boring.
At least then I could have related to the film.
It's such a shame no one can give
their honest opinion of this movie
without having a bunch of children on the internet
gang up on you.
Oh, no.
Oh, Ralph.
Don't do it.
Why would people let me be wrong?
Listen, listen, don't frame it like this.
Don't frame the other side is like,
if you wanna,
I know you're taking an unpopular position.
So what you need to do is less of this
and more of because of this that happens,
because of this scene,
because of these words in the script,
because of this reference.
I can prove with confidence
that this is actually a bad film.
You don't wanna poison the well, essentially,
and make people hate your face.
All right, the beginning.
So far, we'll have a minute and 17 seconds in.
And he's already done the same exact,
made the same exact arguments and points
as many of these TLJ defenders do with it.
It's true because I say it is.
And it is, if you are,
if you'd like this movie or just like this movie,
basically, if you disagree with me,
then you are.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry.
Please continue.
Please carry on with your thoughts.
I was paying attention, yes.
The main argument is that usually,
if you disagree with them,
you are defective in some way.
And he's already done that.
It's already been a minute and 17 seconds.
So this is already fairly promising.
Well, he's already assumed the reason why we like it.
We don't just like it.
We like it because it's a comic book movie.
Comic book movie, that you're all man babies
and fans and DC fans or whatever.
You always re-like the Joker.
There's no real defense.
It's just, but he thinks it's bad
because he says it's bad.
Yeah, well, I take more issue
with just the people being mean to you
because you talk about this thing.
It's like, dude, what does that not apply to
outside of like ubiquitously agreed upon
perspectives on movies?
So for example, I come out with a video
saying Suicide Squad sucks.
I don't even expect to see a comment
that says, nah, this film was a masterpiece.
I might be lucky and see it randomly.
But if I was to come out and be like, I don't know,
what's like a movie that doesn't typically get criticized
that is kind of like-
Oh, why would I do that to myself?
Okay, I come out with a video called
The Prestige is a disaster trash fire.
I would expect a lot of comments
being like, ah, you're off base on this one.
This is a bad take.
I don't see it.
Even if they hadn't even seen the video,
just because it's like, yeah,
that's what's gonna happen.
It's YouTube.
Yeah.
And I think that's-
And so I would be okay with someone
having like a disclaimer at the beginning
because like, I know people like to have it.
And maybe even I would in a long form,
I say long form, I mean longer than my Rage and Prey video,
where I might go like,
please just give my arguments a chance
before you tell me I've been saved.
That's all.
Yeah, be like, I'm not trying to be antagonistic.
I'm not trying to shit all over your hopes and dreams
as of a movie.
I just, I really do think that I'm correct.
And here's all of my arguments for why.
And then you make the video.
You don't, this isn't what you open with.
We've got 23 minutes to go, Ralph.
So someone said you're wasting time.
We've got 11 hours.
We'll be able to make it through, don't worry.
Whoever said that.
Also, it wouldn't be as bad
if he refers to them as children.
It's like, oh.
Yeah.
And it's like, okay, there are,
if I went to my fucking comment section now,
there would be some guy going,
why are you such a fucking loser
talking about Star Wars film bad?
It's like, yeah, they're children,
but not because of their perspective,
because they're twats.
It's like.
Yeah.
And then the other, I guess the other issue is just like,
who are you referring to, Ralph?
Just like asshole idiots or like people being like,
I think that your take on Joker
is inaccurate compared to the film.
Shut up, child.
Silence child.
One thing that's interesting too,
is that he couldn't even say something like,
like people are just defending it
because they really sympathize with the character
or the movie tries to convince them
to this, that and the other thing.
Like it can't even give us the benefit of the doubt.
It is.
They give us such child,
like really gives us very, very childish,
you know, protect the brand kind of motivation.
Basically just dismissing the people
who disagree with him is dismissing their opinions
as nothing but childish notions.
Someone said the illusionist is better than,
no, look, I'm going to be frank.
I saw the illusionist with John Adams in it.
And it's no, no, his name, the actor's name is where I,
what Paul Giamatti, I forget his name all the time.
I like you calling him John Adams, I'm okay with that.
I really like the illusionist,
but the prestige is better than the illusionist,
JB singing in the chat.
So.
I saw the illusionist soon after I saw the prestige
and I was so disappointed because for some reason
I was retarded and I thought I was going to get a movie
like prestige, is it like as good, as well written?
I was like, wait, why did I think that?
The illusionist was one of those movies
that I told my mom, he's like,
mom, you should watch the illusionist, you'll like it.
It's, it's, she, cause she watches the,
it's like a Hallmark movie.
It's just a step above a Hallmark movie.
Right?
With magic.
Liking Iron Man three over prestige.
No, no, stop your man from life.
Oh yeah.
I made, I forced, I strapped Jay down
and forced him to watch prestige.
Jay, what did you think of prestige?
I thought it was great.
Yay.
Yay.
You can say.
You can say that.
Literally like the next day on a stream,
I was asked, hey, have you seen this cool movie,
the Prestige?
And I was like, oh, I have.
Finally, I can say I watched something.
Oh yeah.
Fuck.
I forgot to mention, cause like, if you remember Rags,
we did the, I doubt you forgot,
we did the, the copyright meme recording.
We've done that now.
We've looked at all the meme videos
that had copyrights in them with, with, with Wolf.
And one of the memes had, when Wolf is asking you
what films you've seen and he asks you
if you've seen Prestige and you say, no,
that's inaccurate now.
Yay.
Yes, that information is now officially out of date.
Out of date.
One film at a time, guys.
That's why you got to keep up with eFaps.
Cause we're always pulling a fast one on you.
You can't go by the old info.
Anyway, let's kick on.
Whoo.
It's such a shame.
No one can give her honest opinion of this movie
without having a bunch of children on the internet.
I hate, I hate that he says no one can give
that honest opinion of this film.
Like.
Oh, I'm such a victim on the internet.
No one can give their honest opinions.
Like, I will, I will Ralph, be, I will.
If he said talk shit about it,
he'd be really showing his hand, but you know.
No one can.
Absolutely.
No one can give their honest opinion.
So if you would like this movie, that means,
he's kind of implying that if you say you like this movie,
you're lying.
Well, I, I actually do think that he,
Yeah, he is actually.
I think he thinks that a lot of people don't realize
that they're sort of,
they're being biased towards Batman content,
when we put content,
and they're not realizing that this film
isn't actually that good.
So they're not capable of being honest with themselves,
I suppose.
It's hard to interpret that in a good way.
It's not a great statement.
Is that why Suicide Squad is universally defended
and has five out of five stars?
That's the thing.
Yeah, Suicide Squad has Joker in it, has Batman in it.
Justice League has Batman and Superman fighting
the S-2 monster.
Like it's just, you gotta, people thought that was garbage.
Well, I think, I think that's the universal opinion
for the most part, right?
There's some people who really like it out there, I think.
Thank you.
Oh, that's neat.
Let me have a look at that.
That is neat.
That's right.
I, I don't like it.
You got metal, rags, Satan, Jamie, I get it.
According to the animated French film, I doubt it.
But if they are, then asterisk on all the things
that I've just said.
All right, let's.
Such a shame no one can give their honest,
opinionless movie without having a bunch of children
on the internet gang up on you.
And like people like harass me.
Guys, you realize we're a bunch of children
gang up on him, right?
I'm like three and a half.
I mean, we've fallen for the fuckingism, I'm sorry.
Such a shame no one can give their honest,
opinionless movie without having a bunch of children
on the internet gang up on you.
And like people like harass me about these, these DC.
Oh, people harass me.
I'm a big chat on YouTube.
People harass me.
So I don't want to even discuss it.
So don't.
Well, that's why.
Almost getting a parody, though.
Almost getting a parody by some days.
That's the thing.
There are moments where you can be like,
this is a joke video, right?
But I'm almost, I don't want to say it's true
because I'm not in his head,
but because I follow him on Twitter
and I've seen him promoting this video.
I'm pretty sure he considers this video like, you know,
good shit.
He believes in what he says in this.
It's like, if you don't eat,
if you think that you're going to get harassed
for giving your honest opinion about it,
you don't have to do it.
You don't have to talk about Joker.
You can make movies about other movies.
You make videos.
Make your video movies.
If you do think you're going to get harassed
for making, for sharing a perspective,
you can do it in more pragmatic ways.
Yes.
Then.
Well, I don't want to fucking talk about this
because of all the fucking idiots that think.
I don't know how.
I know all those children see things like I do.
If you like this, you're a child.
That's one of the tropes.
I wish you could see what I see.
Like all we needed was this to be the opening,
the sigh of the, didn't want to make this video.
You're like, the dude, just make something else.
The use of the word,
the use of the word harassment
really makes it feel like he's lampooning
the people who just complain and cry about this stuff.
Lumpoon is a funny word.
He said poon, has poon.
Oh, you guys just a bunch of children
ganging up on this pool now.
We always a bunch of children ganging up on this pool.
I like comic book movies.
It's harassing me.
I like turn.
The Joker is good because it's a comic book movie.
That's why it's good.
No.
That's the only reason, obviously.
Are you fucking kidding me?
No, it's good because of the racism.
No.
But at the same time,
I recorded all this audio about Joker, you know,
cause it's like a commentary track.
I didn't expect Robert De Niro to get shot
in the fucking head.
It's like, yeah, I did.
Of course I did.
What else was going to happen with him?
What were they going to?
Okay, okay.
So the whole movie, he pretends to kill himself
and the auditions killing himself
and he practices killing himself.
And he's like, oh, I'm going to tell this joke
and then I'm going to shoot myself in the face.
And even in the dressing room,
right before he gets on, right after,
right after Oldman and his friend
leave the dressing room place.
Murray, right after Murray and the other guy
leave his preparation room.
I don't know what it's called.
I'm not in the biz.
He called the preparation age room.
What he does is he pretends one last time
to shoot himself right before he goes out.
And then right before he goes out,
as they're getting ready to introduce Joker,
they replay all of the clips
where Murray's making fun of him and all that stuff.
So you're like, oh, which way is he going to go?
Is he going to shoot Murray
or is he going to go through with the plan that he's had?
What do you mean they replay the clips?
Is he going to lead up to this?
Yeah, they do the audio.
Do they?
I completely forgot the mister, huh?
Yeah, like, well, yeah,
because when he's behind the curtain, right, smoking,
and he's waiting for his time to go out,
you can hear the audio of them playing the segments.
Oh, okay.
Just remember this guy
and then they're playing the audio.
We don't see it because this is the Joker's perspective
behind the curtain before he goes out.
They're playing it.
There's scenes.
So I know when I watched it,
I was like, what's he going to do?
What's he going to do?
No, no, I didn't know.
I didn't know.
I was like, is he going to shoot De Niro?
Is he going to shoot himself?
I don't know.
What else is going to happen?
He's going to do a big nut.
I got two golden counters, all right?
First of my,
I'm going to crack open the golden egg
and bring out a counter.
So first one is if you just jumped on a shot,
De Niro would have been like, whoa,
that's not the character we've been learning
throughout through this whole movie.
Like his whole thing is that he's supposed to
knock out people who are awful.
And he's definitely got a reason to dislike Murray
at that point,
but he makes clear that he's like,
happy to be brought on the show
because it's a dream of his.
And so there's a lot going on in Joker's head at this point.
So we need a scene for him to unravel and focus.
And that's what happens in that scene,
combined with all of the efforts from
not only the people on the couch,
De Niro and the audience,
essentially like jabbing and belittling
as he's trying to kill himself,
like he's trying to deliver his payoff.
And he's like, fucking hell.
Like I can't even do this,
but then he goes on his rants.
And then he's like, you know what?
Nah, I'm going to kill you because you're awful.
That's how he justifies it.
Secondly, I care a lot more about the execution
than whether or not I know vaguely or all strictly
where it's going.
There's a lot of movies, I would say,
that this would surely apply to
that are considered classics or greats
that we know we can tell what's probably
more than likely going to happen,
but we're in it to see how it all comes together.
For example, I don't think the Emperor
was going to win in Star Wars.
And yet I was hooked.
I don't know that exactly how,
but that ring is probably going to get booped.
Just saying, like Jay hasn't seen the two Lord Rings songs.
Yeah, I'm saying it probably will get booped.
There's no, I don't know.
I don't know.
Go ahead.
Yeah, so what I was going to say was that
I think that being predictable or boring
in your monotonous in your approach,
it's just like there's more to the argument, surely.
It's not just, did you know or did you not know
what was going to happen in this payoff?
Did you know?
Did you pick it?
Seems to only apply to him because I didn't know.
It was a possibility, but I didn't know.
And as someone who's just stupid,
yeah, I was a stupid child who likes comic book movies.
As someone in chat pointed out that while,
when he pulled out his notebook, right?
And he's looking through the notebook pages on the couch.
What do we see?
He says, I hope my death makes more sense than my life.
So they're like, oh, maybe he's going to kill himself.
Oh, who knows?
And someone mentioned Titanic.
No, you know, that ship's going down.
I would love it if that film, it just didn't.
It's like they find you like, wait, what?
Pass.
From you and Juliet, they actually say what's going to happen
at the end at the beginning.
Well, and that highlights the, I guess, the final argument,
which is, are you able to rewatch films or no?
Because.
Yeah, you can.
In fact, I think what the Titanic has gone down in history
as one of the classics, that you can watch over and over.
But also, I mean, you have Shakespeare's stories.
People play them over and over again.
They keep producing these plays over and over again.
I'm pretty sure you know what happens by now.
Pretty sure that you know Romeo and Juliet
kill themselves at the end.
And I'm pretty sure most people know
that they fall in love during the play.
People still like it.
People still like it.
And the thing is, it's not really about being predictable
or subverting your expectations or being unexpected.
That's always nice.
But it's the quality of a twist,
the quality of what the event that comes in,
is it good?
Is there a good twist?
People always bring in the sixth sense,
like, well, we didn't see that coming.
Well, you know what happens now.
It's still a watchable movie.
It's still people still rewatch it
because it's really good twist.
It's about the quality of the twist,
the quality of the storytelling.
Not so much as, did I get a few seconds of excitement?
Cool.
Satan, have you considered that you're a child
who likes comic book movies?
I never considered that.
I know.
I know it's true already, so.
Damn you.
I've been counted.
So yeah, see, and so I'm pretty sure
he doesn't develop this point,
or at least I can't remember that he does or doesn't,
but I would be like, this could be a point.
It depends on where he takes it
because this is on its own.
It's just not much to work with.
It hurt.
It's like, yeah, I did.
Of course I did.
What else was gonna happen with him?
What were they gonna do?
The thing that he auditioned the entire movie
in practice for the whole movie to do
and to say that he was gonna do the whole time,
especially nowadays with movies,
who knows what's gonna happen.
We're all so used to being surprised.
He's gonna marry puppets this way.
He's like, you know what?
It's easy to say after the fact, yeah, I knew it all along.
He was like, did you?
Did you really?
He kind of vibed where he's kind of one of those guys
who watches a magician do his trick
and goes, I know how that happened.
I watch a magician explain his trick.
Everyone else notices like, shut the fuck up.
He's like, oh.
Talk it out.
Oh yeah, Joker, let's talk it out.
That's what you wanted to happen, right?
No, it's an obvious, cheap ending.
He fucking shoots.
Cheap ending.
Cheap ending.
He's going to kill himself.
I thought he was going to make a big show about himself,
killing himself to prove his point.
And then obviously he changes plans at the last second.
It's easy to see that he changed plans at the last second
and shoots Murray instead.
Yeah, I would say it's very informed.
That exchange on Murray's show,
especially with us knowing how unhinged he is with a gun,
it's very tense.
At least I found it very tense.
I was like, what's going to happen?
What's going to happen?
I was kind of personally hoping that he would pull
a dark knight returns and kill everyone in the audience.
But I guess just killing my response.
Throw loads of grenades into the audience.
Like, oh my God.
So I agree, he just blows up.
He just keeps shooting, never reloads.
He just baptizes.
He has Dante clips.
Oh yeah, Joker, let's talk it out.
That's what you wanted to happen, right?
No, it's an obvious, cheap ending.
He fucking shoots, fuck.
Obvious, cheap ending.
Okay.
Obvious, cheap ending.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Talk now.
Let's talk about it.
Oh yeah, Joker.
Let's talk it out.
That's what you wanted to happen.
That's what it says.
No, it's an obvious, cheap ending.
He fucking shoots, fuck.
One dimensional characters.
Every character aside from Arthur
only serves to enforce the message that society is bad.
They don't have any qualities of their own.
The only two likable people Arthur knows
are a woman of color and a dwarf.
Great writing.
Why is that?
Why is that?
Why?
Oh my goodness.
Why would you, why did you phrase that that way?
The only two likable people Arthur knows
are a woman of color and a dwarf.
Why not say his therapist and the character's name?
The coworker.
Well, it's the imaginary hails referred to, right?
It has to be dismissive about it.
It has to be, it has to be a dismissive way
so it can sound worse.
There are two ways to interpret this.
Either the women of color and dwarfs
aren't supposed to be likable.
Or, which they're not, which they're not.
Other demographics have to be likable.
I love that it says great writing after it.
Writing is capitalized.
Like, why is writing capitalized?
Let's see this again.
People will be like, it's great writing.
People are like, surely it's parody.
It's like, well, the awkward thing is that like,
this poor guy, if he made this fully intending
to supply some strong criticism,
that he's like, everyone's like, good joke, Ralph.
He's probably like, fuck off.
I'm like, what?
And if you're gonna try and convince people
that they're wrong about a movie and you're right,
you did nothing in that whole introduction
or first segment to explain why any of this was wrong.
You were just like, oh, I knew it.
I'm right.
I understood.
I'm right because I'm right.
I'm right, and it is.
Rex, did you just say Sigment?
Sigment?
Is that Freudian's first name?
No.
Sigment Freudian.
Sigment.
Sigment Freudian.
What else is he expecting from him?
Oh, an experience done.
Is every character in the film supposed to be
this three-dimensional character with his own footprint?
Right.
I guess, yeah.
So let's assault this criticism then.
So-
It's giving me stronger parody vibes.
Is there anyone who is more than one-dimensional
in this film outside of Joker?
Be like, so let's just try a first reference.
The guy who's his friend and colleague who is like,
look after yourself, here's a gun,
but turns out he backstabs him in an attempt to
obviously force out more clowns of the actual agency
that I imagine gets you more jobs
for the rest of the clowns that are there, naturally.
It's spread thinner.
So surely that's multi-layered, right?
Or does that not count?
I don't know specifically how one-dimensional
versus two-dimensional is classified,
but I always assumed it was about
they're shown to have more than one interest
or purpose or motivation,
like a character that's more interesting
than being there for one intention.
I think that guy is actually just a human thing,
I would guess.
In the beginning, he just wanted to make
actually look up for him and also make some money.
I'm starting easy sort of thing.
I'm just like, there's that guy.
He's a character, everyone would agree.
I think he goes slightly beyond one-dimensional.
Like, okay, cool.
The social worker that's giving him,
let's call it limited therapy.
Yeah.
She's giving him all this-
The wahmen of color.
The wahmen of color.
Well, I don't know which one he's referring to
when he says that,
because it could be the imaginary girlfriend
who's nice to him on the elevator.
Oh, yeah, right.
I forgot.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I guess he's just like woman of color,
all of them that are the same.
Okay, thanks, Ralph.
So she simultaneously is the standard
sort of trope therapist character,
being like, how are you?
What have you written in your journal?
What are your thoughts like?
That sort of thing.
But then you find out later,
which I thought was interesting,
that she's very unhappy about the situation.
She thinks she's being treated like shit.
She's not one of the ones that's victimizing him.
She's victimized as well,
and that I suppose he's countering that ahead of time
by saying that these two that I've mentioned so far,
the one that's kind of a backstab to a degree,
and the other one that's saying
that he's not the only one that's been beaten down,
they both represent society bad,
which makes them non-layered,
would be the argument here, I suppose.
But I don't think that's fair at all.
The thing about the Joker movie though,
it's more or less a character piece,
like a character study of Arthur Fleck
as he spirals down into this journey
of madness and insanity.
And all these characters are supposed to be there
so that they can help highlight his changes
and how he reacts to the world.
We need to see how he reacts to the world
at the beginning of the movie
and how he does so by the end.
And these other characters don't really need
to be fleshed out.
They're basically just there to help flesh out
Arthur Fleck himself.
Well, yeah, and they're not on screen for very long,
but I even take issue with the idea
that they're one-dimensional.
I'm like, I don't know.
I think they're shown as relatively fleshed out.
Some people obviously are mentioning Murray.
It's like, yeah, I actually quite like the details
in how Murray speaks to Joker,
especially the, you don't know me,
as a big counter to what a lot of people do in this film,
mainly being Thomas and Arthur.
They broadly paint an entire group of people.
In Joker's case, it would just be society as a whole,
horrible, and then obviously Murray comes back with,
because he's like, you're awful specifically,
and most people are just horrible in general.
And he's like, one, they're not, two,
you don't even know me.
You can't even conclude that about me.
And combine that with his TV show-style host character.
I don't know, I just think that there's clearly
more going on there than one dimension.
I think it's unfair to say that
about the characters in this film,
despite the fact that they don't necessarily
need to operate further than that,
because this entire film is what you call a character study.
It's entirely about Arthur.
Yeah, this is reminding me of that guy on the Death Star
who pushed the leader that blew up Elder on.
He's a bad character.
He's like, 10 grenades, 10 grenades, something like that.
Green tea, right?
Yeah, we need to see his entire household
and his likes and hobbies,
so that we can fully have a three-dimensional character
who pulls a lever that destroys everything
from the Death Star.
And if we're seeing pretty much all of this
is from kind of his perspective, right?
How much do you really know your coworkers?
How much do you really know your shitty therapist?
How much do you really know just the random people
you meet around and about?
Like how, like you think about a lot of the people
that you sort of know of and know,
but you don't like know them.
Are those three-dimensional characters
in your story movie life?
They're probably not.
Well done.
All right, well, I'm glad that was, well, you just,
okay, fine.
Describing the only two likable people,
does he mean the people who are liked by Arthur,
or does he mean just likable characters in general?
I guess it is by Arthur.
I like the dwarf, his dwarves are funny.
I mean, because I was gonna say, I liked Murray.
I mean, I liked him.
Yeah, Murray seems like a nice guy, sort of.
I like this character too.
Not a bad person.
I wouldn't have concluded he was a bad person.
He just-
Yeah, he's not a bad person.
He just does something that's kind of mean,
that's mean-spirited to Arthur.
He's a comedian.
He mocks things.
That's his job.
That's what he does for a living.
Well, yeah.
I think people who play other people's content
to make fun of it are very evil people.
Satan is-
Is that what he's doing?
You're calling Satan evil, really?
I'm asking Satan if Murray went to hell.
How dare you?
Oh yeah, did Murray go to hell?
We can confirm if he was a good guy or a bad guy.
Or did he go to purgatory?
Check the other decks.
Why did you say that like you were making a pun?
Like purgatory, like a cat thing?
I think he's just referencing infinitisms.
I think that's what that was.
I'm referencing like a crisis on the internet.
Episode, this is where they go to purgatory
and then they rescue Archer from the being dead.
But then another man shows up and says,
no, come with me.
And then he does.
No, we're getting off top.
No.
Fuck, what's this?
Murray and hell are in shitty CGI purgatory.
Damn it, Satan.
But I suppose he is accurate in the,
if he's referring to the two people that Arthur likes,
the girl in the elevator and the dwarf.
Okay.
And I think one thing that really helps
flesh out characters is conflict.
And if you, the guy that gives Arthur Fleck the gun,
okay, the guy that gives him the gun in the first place,
he is set up to be this, you know,
guy who maybe was looking out for him in the first place.
And then he kind of turns into the jerk coworker.
And if he was one dimensional,
that's all he would have been.
But if you remember in the later half of the movie,
he actually comes back to Arthur's apartment
after they had this big conflict,
after Arthur Fleck went into the little clown changing room
and threw that tantrum and blamed him
for giving him the gun, just outed him.
And they had a big falling out with each other.
And he came by to check on Arthur Fleck anyway,
towards the end of the movie.
He ended up getting killed for it.
But that's not something
a one-dimensional character would do.
A motion one-dimensional character,
in his case, the jerk coworker,
would remain just a jerk coworker.
And that's all he would ever be.
Yeah, good point.
Well put.
Can I just say that this text is too far down the screen?
It should be.
I agree.
That was really bad.
Well, you would be no,
that's this is how you do it, okay?
When you're-
Send to your fucking text.
Also, the text is wrong.
Yeah, no, I agree with that too.
Yeah, the mess, not only is it too low, it is incorrect.
Well, look at that statement in the middle.
They don't have any qualities of their own.
What nonsense is that?
Like, of course they do.
Those are like elements to each of these people
that you can pull out easily from any of these scenes.
Give me a character and I'll tell you a quality.
And you go, okay.
All right, Murray, Murray.
Clearly tries to make a joke out of mostly everything,
keeps the everything light.
He's interested in making people laugh.
He seems to be, that's his goal as a person.
I would say before,
when Murray's in the dressing room with Arthur,
he's actually really nice to him.
And he acquiesces to his request.
He adapts in his show.
You can clearly tell that if Arthur could have taken it
any way he wanted to,
Arthur could have been like really down to earth
and friendly to him.
And I think he would have been friendly back.
But the second he says like,
okay, I killed those three people,
it's like Murray's immediately like,
that's almost a challenge in terms of control
over the show.
Like, I think Murray recognizes
like he's trying to celebrate himself.
Be like, I killed those people and it felt great.
And then he's like, you know, you think that's good?
You think it's good to kill people?
Because even as producers, like this is fucked up.
And then Murray's like, no, I got this.
I got control of this.
Just didn't expect him to have a gun.
Obviously that kind of changes the power dynamic.
But yeah, and then you'd be like,
no, he's just a representation of society bad.
I'd be like, oh,
can you just make this argument for like any character ever?
Murray doesn't seem like that bad of a guy.
He doesn't.
Seems like a nice man.
Even like he said in the dressing room,
he does nice things.
I think if Joker had said to him when he met him
that it really upset him,
seeing that video on his show.
He would have apologized.
Yeah, he probably would have been like,
you know, that's not what the show was about.
It's not supposed to be that.
We're just trying to have a bit of fun.
And that, you know, I'm sorry that it did that.
I could totally see him doing that.
Yeah, it's just pilots onto his already persistent issues
that he has.
And then his idol is just like,
oh, look at that goofy fucker.
He's so stupid.
So for him, it's like a matter of perspective
for him is like super evil right now
because he fucked him over like his idol hates him
and just ridiculed him.
Yeah.
In her audience.
After he learns that his mother might be, you know,
messing with his entire life,
he sees the broadcast of them making fun of him.
And he's like, oh, now the person who I in some way
see as my father figure, now he's turned on me too.
Both of them have turned on me.
He's turned on.
He's turned on like a flashlight in the dark.
Yes.
Let us venture further into this video.
Yes.
Todd Phillips has always been a comedy director
and some of the character writing and scenarios
in this film feel so simplistic.
It's like out of a comedy.
Joker is in the subway and three guys.
So I don't think he knows what comedy means.
I was about to say, I don't like the loaded statement there
that implies that comedy means you have simple setups.
Yeah, that's, that's stupid.
You get all kinds of setups in comedy.
Well, not even, I think that you can make great comedy
out of simple and complex setups.
It's the same with drama.
I guess, yeah.
I mean, yeah, people, Rob, there are jerks on subways.
Allegedly.
Allegedly.
Back me up on here, subwayman.
It's just a straight, like, I disagree with your premise
that he's like moving on to another point.
I'm like, but he didn't even have to explain.
Narios in this film feel so simplistic.
It's like out of a comedy.
Joker is in the subway and three guys are there
and they're bullying a lady.
And then the guys bully him.
Anything sounds simple when you say it like that.
I was going to say, well, hey, look,
I'm not being condescending here.
He's, he's, he's pointing this out.
So I have to reply like this.
Humans take the subway regularly.
It's a, it's like a faster way of traveling.
During the nighttime, it's very common for people
who have been drinking to use public travel
because they can't be relied to drive themselves.
Joker's there late.
He's, it's after he's been fired, he's down in the dumps.
He's taken the subway home.
We see it, we saw him take the subway home before.
There's somebody does partially regularly
and three dudes are there.
They're drunk and they're, they're fucking with somebody.
This, this is a common occurrence in many places,
but this is one of the worst cities in the country,
as far as I can tell, with what this movie is trying
to portray, Gotham's a shit hole.
So, uh, yeah.
Rough urban environment.
So does that all make sense?
And I'm just like, makes sense to me.
I don't see.
What movie is he watching that has all the,
every scene is complex in some way.
No, listen, Arthur Fleck, he is,
he finds himself aboard an airship, a zeppelin, if you will.
A dirigible.
Headed for Tijuana.
After the failed dual heist, he has to escape the country
while the heat dies down.
And he meets captain, Johansson, the third,
famed dog trainer and secret Nazi.
And then you'd full stop.
Secret communist Nazi.
That's no, that's not a comedy.
That was very complicated setup.
So it's a, don't call it a subway.
It's a great iron web.
The great iron web.
Yeah.
And as Jay pointed out first,
you could do this with everything ever.
Oh, okay.
A bunch of people go to a place to do a thing.
Okay.
Oh, there's a guy and he likes,
there's another guy who kind of looks like him.
Great setup.
Gemini man.
Face off.
Not applicable.
Poker is in the subway and three guys are there
and they're bullying a lady.
And then the guys bully him.
They hit him with the sign.
They beat him up.
All these bad things happen to him.
All at once.
They didn't always stop, stop, stop, stop.
You can do this to anything.
Okay.
So this happens and this happens and this happens.
Why didn't you just weirdly,
why didn't you just weirdly combine the first seed
into one of the latest scene in the movie?
I take grand issue with saying these all happen at once.
Wow.
Well, that's just fantastic.
Are you sure there's not a parody?
So he simultaneously while at work has a sign stolen
as he has his mother suffers a heart attack
and he sneaks into a movie theater.
It all happens at once.
It's all, it's all one, one scene.
So I think Jenny, sorry,
Jebby made this point as well that all of it happens
too quickly and all together and it's just like all random.
I think some people fail to realize
how connected a lot of these sequences are
as in the nature of like,
why does he get fired from his job?
Because he has a gun while he's doing his work.
Why does he have a gun?
It's like a friend offered it to him
as a result of being beaten up.
And you're like,
Oh, so those events are directly connected.
And it's like, why was he given no chances
after the gun was found as well?
It's like, well, because he'd lost,
he'd already had a warning after the sign.
And that was directly connected with being beaten up as well.
Like the nature in these events to be like,
oh, I saw just, you know, he walked down the street.
Some guy punched him, he kept walking down.
Some other guy just punched him.
It's like, no, that's not what happened, is it?
If you walk down the street
and just shot someone in the head of live TV,
it's like, whoa, stop.
Yeah, these are all connected.
It goes from one event to the next.
Everything is flows evenly.
Because of, because he got beaten up,
he lost the sign because he got lost the sign.
He got in trouble at work
because he got in trouble working beaten up.
He got his friend, give him a gun
because he got a gun, you know, and so on and so forth.
Every single main event in this movie is connected.
It's not random.
It's not just all thrown together at random.
It's not, it's all connected and well paced.
Oh yeah.
How does he shoot those guys on the subway?
Where'd he get the gun from?
He was keeping his butt up either.
Oh my God.
Oh my God.
And it all starts with a bunch of little fucking jerky kids
taking the man's sign.
And it all just begins in avalanche.
And it's almost to argue,
why would kids take a sign as I think-
Because they're kids, you fucking idiot.
That's what they do.
They do dumb stuff.
They've never been a kid before.
There was a-
Kids fucking love signs.
There was a post on Reddit of,
it was just called kids are assholes.
And it's just a guy recording from his phone.
There's like six kids that are just trying to pick up
and turn over a car.
It's just on the street.
It's just parked.
And they do it.
And the second it topples over, they just sprint away.
It's like, wow, thanks a fucking lot.
I was like, of course kids do shit like that.
The last day of school,
when I was in the eighth grade, eighth grade, right?
So here in America,
that's the grade before you go to high school, right?
So eighth grade, last day of school,
there was a kid in my class, his name was Hunter, right?
And he pisses on the outside of the school building, right?
And they could tell because cameras exist,
but also because there was this big old wet spot
on the side of the building
where someone had clearly pissed on it.
Last day of school, he was fucking idiot.
He had one more day to go and he was Scott fucking free,
but he pissed on the building.
Why?
Cause kids are dumb.
Kids are dumb and they'll do anything for a laugh
or a giggle or something.
I got my car-
No one said they're teenagers, not kids.
What?
Say they back to the kids.
So when we say kids-
So once you turn 13, you are a mature adult
and you don't do anything childlike at all.
That's a good argument.
I hope you feel glad that you made it.
One time some kids keyed my car.
My car was just sitting there as they do.
And they were walking down the road
and one of the kids saw it
and they walked a little bit further.
No one looked back and he went
and he made a bunch of key car marks on over the hood
and he ran away.
Why?
Cause he's just, I don't know.
Cause kids are fucking assholes.
Ralph-
Hey, Ralph didn't say that.
I know you're fucking 12 years old or whatever, Ralph.
Geez, you know this shit.
Kids do dumb things.
You know what?
You've taken it too far because-
We've been assaulting someone who doesn't even like,
it was Jeppy, he said that, right?
Why would kids take a sign?
Well, the fucking guy in the movie said that as well.
The guy, what guy in the movie?
Oh yeah, the boss man.
The point being-
Why would they take a sign?
And then he's like,
why would you believe that I would take the sign?
He's like, it doesn't fucking matter.
The sign's gone.
I think it doesn't matter where the sign is.
Cause I don't know why people do the things they do.
He says that.
Cause I don't know why they do, people do things.
I don't know.
Why do people do anything?
This is the thing, if you're gonna appeal to,
no, nobody would do,
nobody would do something so horrible
as to hit another human.
I'd be like, oh man.
Yes, anyway.
And then the guys bully him.
They hit him with the sign.
They beat him up.
All of these bad things happen to him all at once.
The king of comedy is far more subtle than us.
All at once.
All at once.
How would you say something?
And he just moved on to say
the king of comedy is so much more subtle.
I'm very curious.
Yeah, tell me about this.
Tell me about the subtlety of the king of comedy, please.
Tell me about that movie.
I like the king of comedy.
I do.
I really legitimately like it.
I think Mr. Pipkin is a good relatable protagonist man.
It's not subtle.
I wouldn't describe it as subtle.
It is not subtle.
The most subtle movie that we saw
was they were never really here.
Was that the most subtle?
You were never really there, I think.
That's what it is.
You were never here.
I forget.
I'm questioning my own.
It's not actually present most of the time.
I was never not here.
That's it.
That's 100%.
Yeah, but that was subtler.
Homicidal to the point of where we were going.
Like, what?
Yeah, sure.
King of comedy is not subtle.
Yeah, it's very, well, I'm curious what,
in what way is he saying it's subtle?
That's all.
That's all I want to know.
Bad things happen.
Hey, hey, hey.
You know, guess what?
You know, the B in subtle is subtle.
Oh.
Oh, fuck.
I just fucking shit myself.
Oh, my God.
So subtle.
I shit myself.
Just stare at the ceiling tonight
where you can't get to sleep and think of that gem.
That movie was never really titled.
Press Ladies on your next date with that one.
You want to die?
All at once.
The king of comedy is far more subtle
in how it portrays a character like this.
King of comedy.
No, it isn't.
Come on.
It's okay.
It's very subtle.
Oh, my God.
Comedy.
So all the main characters are really,
they're really exaggerated.
It's not subtle.
He's like, like, so what comes to mind immediately
is the shot where he is standing at like a giant poster
of hands like clapping and waving, I think it is.
He's just standing in front of it,
like as if they're all for him.
Then there's obviously the shot where he's with.
But what does it mean, Mahler?
Again, again, I'm going to do what Rags just did.
I actually really like King of comedy.
And I don't think that I would say
the floor of the film is that it's not subtle.
I'd be like, no, no, it's just.
Yeah, because Mr.
Arthur Rupert.
Pop Pipkin.
He's not a son of a guy.
He would.
That's him as pumpkin, okay?
While he's living out his fantasies,
he has no reason to be subtle.
It makes sense in the narrative
that it wouldn't be subtle.
Yeah.
In this conversation that Rupert is having
with the lady that he likes,
I forget her name, her name is Carla for this analogy.
While he's talking with Carla,
he's not subtle here either.
In fact, she is annoyed at how much he goes on
and on and on about it.
It's like he didn't watch this movie,
but he did a long, long time ago
and he thinks he remembers it right.
But he doesn't.
So speak with me.
I just, I think the film is very, very clear
about the kind of character Rupert is and the subtlety.
So I'm just going from the fact
that you said the very subtle about the characterization.
Supreme the subtlety.
Yeah.
He's not, pumpkin isn't even an only one.
It's a fangirl, a fangirl character.
They could have had her just be another fan.
Cause they had other examples of fangirls
around the Jerry character
and they just, they hang on him and everything.
But the other one was crazy.
And she was the main fangirl
because pumpkin and she know each other.
And she was far exaggerated.
She's the worst of worst aspect
of every delusional deranged,
Reylo esque fangirl you could ever encounter.
Yeah.
I would actually, I would describe her as a one-dimensional.
Yeah.
She plays a crazy person.
She's obsessed.
She's the obsessive fangirl.
That's all she is.
She's just, she's just a crazy person.
Yeah. That movie shit.
Cause she's not a three-dimensional character
who's super fleshed out.
Yeah. Cause I could be like,
she represents that idealizing celebrity is bad.
Like she represents the negatives of that.
And that's all the characters do in King of Comedy
that aren't Rupert,
but that would be a disservice to a lot of the characters
in King of Comedy.
Like Jerry.
Jerry's a very interesting character.
You get to learn a lot about him.
Yeah. I'll just give birth to the nation.
Okay.
Sure. We'll do it.
Which, yes.
They beat him up.
All these bad things happen to him all at once.
The King of Comedy is far more subtle
in how it puts you as a character like this.
King of Comedy.
Title drop pumpkin is a guy raised by...
He calls it pumpkin.
It's weird how many people do it.
Call the pumpkin, but that's the joke
is that his name's Pipkin.
What if he's, what about if he's 3D
master chasing us right now?
And that's the joke is that he's getting his name wrong.
Think about it.
We fell for his...
Did you pick 3D chess?
Literally all of the chess.
Well, 3D chess works because normally chess is only 2D.
1D chess.
1D chess.
It's just...
17D chess.
It's like one of those shitty flash games
on E-bombs World.
Oh my God. Remember E-bombs World.
Everybody?
Demonic Defense 2 and Ass Hunter.
Oh, Ass Hunter.
Oh my God.
I remember there's a flash.
I'm sorry. It's a little bit of a tangent now.
Ass Hunter.
The point is that his name is not pumpkin.
It's Pipkin.
Maybe...
It's pumpkin.
Not Pipkin.
Pipkin.
Pipkin.
It's a kind of...
Trying to say the word pumpkin.
Oh my God, it is.
It's pumpkin.
Pumpkin.
It's okay.
I was really not expecting to find a real game,
but it is one.
What?
You want to play some Ass Hunter?
Yeah, I'm not making this shit up.
I'm still making sense.
I'm still in control of my faculties.
Ass Hunter was a game where the gay people
were trying to hump you,
but you had to shoot them and kill them first.
And Demonic Defense 2 was a game where you had a castle
and you had to click on enemies to kill them
before they got to your castle.
Everyone's like, Roods, you're ancient.
It's like, no, I'm not.
I just remember this.
Rags knows what's up.
A lot of people just don't remember E-bombs World.
I'm gonna play Ass Hunter now.
That is how to correctly spend your life.
Stop letting me allow, wait, let me run Flash.
Flash was blocked to this page.
Let me not do that.
Oh, there's gonna be Flash in an Ass Hunter.
You bet your bottom dollar there is.
That was in the shirt, Rags.
Let this poor man speak against you.
King of comedy.
Rupert Pumpkin is a guy raised by television.
He's only used to watching artificial human behavior
on talk shows.
Very subtle.
Yeah, yeah, it's so subtle.
Blink and you miss.
It fucking is recreating an entire TV set
in his fucking house in the scene
that you're showing with your visuals, Ralph.
It's so subtle.
What does it mean, Ralph?
What does it mean that he is almost painstakingly
in an unhealthy way recreated a movie set
in his house, Ralph?
It's so subtle.
What does it mean?
He doesn't actually interact with human beings
because he doesn't have friends.
It works out for him.
Well, I mean, I don't know that I would conclude
that about him.
He's pretty good at interacting with humans.
It's only when he doesn't get what he wants.
It starts to crack.
Yeah, when he goes into the television office place,
he's normal, like that's the thing about him.
That's what's kind of so interesting
is that he's totally normal
when he's interacting with people.
Even on his date, right?
He's kind of normal in the way that he talks.
But it's that one thing he obsesses over
that really makes him stand out from a normal man, right?
Yeah.
And besides, we don't know, like, how does he make money?
There's so much of his life we don't know.
How does he pay the bills?
Is his mom even real?
Is she even alive as a figment of his imagination?
We don't even know.
There's so much we don't know about him,
but he seems to be a normal, well-adjusted person, asterisk.
And this film is about that asterisk at the end of it.
And yeah, he's patient too.
He's like willing to always sit down,
wait, very calm, very civil.
It's just that with every conversation he has,
as it progresses, like there's just this underlying,
like, you're not like a crazy person, right?
Like, you're not gonna.
Yeah.
And obviously we get insight into his head
that he has these crazy, vivid imagination moments.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, also, fuck me about subtlety.
He gets, he has his marriage on TV.
Like, he imagines his marriage taking place
as a surprise on a TV show.
That's the clip that Ralph is playing.
That's what I mean.
That's why it just hit me.
I was like, it's not subtle.
Come on.
He's doing this, he's doing all of this
while the guy he hated,
one of the guys he apparently hated or had enemies,
came up to him and says,
I would like to apologize to you
and throw in the entire world.
Yes, that's how wrong we were.
The guy who's doing the wedding,
on behalf of us who doubted you, we're so sorry.
Please accept our condolences.
Ralph, back to back, plays like the two scenes
that are the most non-subtle things he does.
And he's like, yeah, this room is great
because it's so subtle.
I just didn't understand what,
did Ralph Pipkin, did Rupert Pipkin,
did he, what does he really want in life?
I'm just, I'm baffled.
What does he really want?
Read in this movie, The King of Subtlety,
by this point, I mean, come on.
It's a mystery, The King of Subtlety.
It's not a problem.
I just find it fascinating.
You described this as subtle.
It's like, all right.
How can you argue this movie,
this is a good movie,
but how can you argue it's filled with all of this subtlety
and not put that argument in a parody video?
Again, that's a digger for the like,
is this a parody video?
Survey says yes, but I'm pretty sure it's not supposed to be.
This is the most blatant of like all the movies we watch.
I don't know is, which is more subtle?
This movie or falling down?
Obviously this movie.
So if the question is which one gives away
what is going on inside the character's head more overtly,
I would say it's this one.
What I, like I said, about falling down,
at first, I think you could be convinced
that he is your average guy
who's just fed up with the world.
But then you get all the little bits and bobs
about how he came to that point.
This little bit more complex
and how he definitely at the end of the film
regrets what he does.
Like this probably wasn't the best course of action
and that all he wants is to be with his family.
That's he's desperate to just be with his daughter
and his wife.
You feel sad for him at the end.
Like you legitimately feel like,
you're like, oh man, this dude,
like something's going on and it's really fucked with him.
I mean, that's too bad.
I hope he doesn't.
I hope he doesn't.
Yeah, wild pumpkin.
I mean.
I hope he doesn't get fucking shot off a pier.
Yeah, that would be unfortunate if that happened.
That would be tragic for this gentleman.
But yeah, all right, all right, let's keep going.
If you're on talk shows,
he doesn't actually interact with human beings
because he doesn't have friends.
It works out for him with Rita
and you understand why she likes him.
It works out for him with Rita.
It works out for him with Rita.
No, it doesn't.
It calls him home at all.
Unless he's just, is he referring only to their date,
their first date?
Because it doesn't really go,
it goes okay.
Like, okay, listen, if you,
if she says, do you want to come inside
after you drop her off at your house?
Your date's gone pretty good, all right?
That's a success, right?
You've already done good.
But she thinks he's a psycho and a weirdo
when he goes to,
when he goes to TV man's house.
Jerry.
Yeah, it doesn't work out for him at all.
Why does he not, why does he say that?
Maybe, well, so my quick take would be that
he made a statement earlier saying
that he doesn't have friends,
he can't interact with people properly.
And he knows that he does that very quickly
in the movie when we meet him with Rita
and with Jerry in the car.
He's actually very capable of this.
Maybe this is a form of backpedaling,
like, yeah, it works with Rita.
Okay, but that, no, because,
like, I just don't think it was a particularly
strong point in general.
Yeah, but it doesn't, like, it sort of works with Rita,
but.
Well, they're going off the fact
that they knew each other in high school,
I believe, right?
She says, that's the only reason why she's giving him
the time of day.
She's like, oh, I know you, hey.
Something, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Beings, because he doesn't have friends,
it works out for him with Rita.
And you understand why she likes him.
You understand what a shot on Langford means.
That's coast to coast national TV,
a bigger audience than the greatest comedians
used to play to in a whole lifetime.
What are they eating?
That was pretty deceptive.
I mean, he said it works out with Rita showing a picture,
scene with him marrying her, which is not actually occurring.
It's a fantasy.
Yeah, it's a fantasy, yeah.
If you hadn't seen the movie,
you might be tricked into thinking
the kids are marrying here.
It's like, that's not what happens in this movie.
I'm getting more and more convinced that this is a parody
and this can't be real.
Well, we can conclude that by the end if you want.
There'll be pieces of evidence to go both ways.
The scenes they're showing here
is when they're like most getting along.
Like, this is like kind of the high point.
It's beginning of the movie almost.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sort of.
But the reason I paused is because, I don't know,
what are they eating?
Like, I can't nail it down like what they're having.
It's food rags, cheese.
American psycho-esque dishes.
I feel like in the middle, we have odd setup
where you have like the raised plate with stuff in it.
But like, is this some kind of like an Indian place
or something?
It's a Klingon delicacy.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Kapla!
All of this was more believable and interesting
than what they do in this movie.
You remember, Ralph, when he has a whole radio station
and set up in his room
and he pretends to run commercial breaks
for himself being invited to a show that isn't real?
You know how subtle that is?
So subtle.
I don't know what it means.
It's, well, I'm glad you managed to pick it up.
You picked it up.
Yes.
Good job.
I had no idea.
It's mystery.
Basically just added in because there's literally
no other female characters in the movie
that are interesting or fleshed out in any way.
There's the Joker's mother,
which is basically an exact copy of the relationship
he has with his mother in You Were Never Really Here.
No, so that's a fucking lie, all right?
Because I saw You Were Never Really Here
and that's not true at all.
For context, for those who have not seen that movie,
he does live with his mother
and we will try and avoid spoilers, I suppose,
but she's in the movie for what I would say
is about two minutes?
Very little, very little.
She's not in the movie much.
Very much a situation where she relies on Joaquin Phoenix
and she's not all together there in her head,
but that's basically all we know.
And he's almost like,
he's like resentful that he has to take care of her.
Well, there is the aspect that she and he were both abused
by the father.
And that may of course, whoever knows.
There's a lot to be interpreted from details in that film,
but it's much, this is the thing,
I feel like it's almost like you're just trying
to contradict it, but the word I would use
for Joker's relationship with his mother
is that it's much more fleshed out.
Yeah, I mean, just going by the time he just gave us
two minutes and Joker, the mother is an integral part
of the movie and a big part of why he goes fucking
insane in the end.
Yeah, so the way it goes for her in Joker
is that she worked for the Wayne family.
She adopted Arthur.
She was booted from service from the Waynes
because of her mental faculties, I believe.
I'd have to rewatch the specific scenes.
Something along those lines.
And she got a boyfriend slash husband slash whatever partner
that was extremely abusive to Arthur and her
and the police were involved.
She got committed, he was eventually committed.
I don't know if that was from that age
or once he was much older.
And then once they were out, they were still together.
That's like their history is extremely important.
And then you see from the movie in present day,
he's actually quite dismissive of him as well as,
she's like a combo of dismissive and loving
depending on different parts to her.
The fact that she just says like,
you're not gonna be a good comedian
because you're not funny.
Yeah, she's kind of a jerk to Arthur, she's kind of a-
And she's delusional, or at least clinically delusional
as the papers say.
As we discover, film progresses,
even though it takes place all at once,
eventually we discover that she is indeed-
All at once.
And so, yeah, I would just conclude,
I'd be like, there's so much more to her character
than there is for this character
in You Would Never Really There.
Assuming, I keep forgetting if I've got that name right,
it's too hard for my brain to keep track
of which of the ways I'm supposed to use.
I'm gonna get reminded in chat every time I do this
and I'm sorry, but it's, yeah.
You were never really here.
That's your opinion.
Also, he says that there are no fleshed out female characters
and obviously the first one you would reference
would be his mother, probably.
And that's why he immediately says,
nah, just a clone of the other movie.
Didn't you say there are no fleshed out characters
except for the Joker?
Seems kind of a redundant thing to say.
Yeah, I mean, I think you guys would agree, right?
If you were to say a character is one-dimensional,
they're not very fleshed out.
Of the no characters there were,
none of them were wamans.
Yeah.
I suppose you could be a,
can you be a fleshed out one-dimensional character?
No, a fleshed out 11 character arc.
What, was the mother in the other movie?
Was she fleshed out?
No. No.
Would you call her fleshed out?
He's certainly less of a character than in Joker.
I think that I hate to assign motivations to people.
I kind of feel like,
it's just blatantly not true,
because I've seen both these movies.
Mahler, I just called her Mahler Rags, but I'm Rags.
Mahler and I watch it.
Just stop drinking for a little bit.
You're never really here.
And the mother in that is not at all
like the mother in Joker.
No. Completely different.
But if you're being broad, if you're being nice and broad,
she is a mother, she has mental issues, and she is old.
If you're gonna, but at the point,
at this point, we're like broad
to the point of uselessness.
Well, that's how I feel about the comparisons.
I always felt that that's just too broad.
It's like,
a condensable camera.
I know, right?
There's literally no other female characters in the movie
that are interesting or fleshed out in any way.
Also interesting when it goes to female.
Exactly, Satan.
He talks about female characters.
Why is Gaby female characters?
Why are you focusing on female characters?
What about just characters?
There are no fleshed out female characters in 1917.
That is true.
Yeah, women didn't exist back then.
Yeah, all women were invented.
They're basically just added in
because there's literally no other female characters
in the movie that are interesting or fleshed out in any way.
There's the Joker.
That doesn't even make sense as an argument.
Because there are no other female characters.
That's not how that works.
An interesting female character was placed into the film
because there are no other interesting female characters.
You'd be like,
That's not the reason why she's here.
That's not the reason why she's here.
That's not anything.
This film only has its one interesting plot
because without it, that wouldn't be an interesting plot.
Oh my God.
That's the only reason it's there.
Oh no.
I can't really do anything with that.
It's just like, all right.
Jerry is only in the King of Comedy
to give the main characters some motivation.
Gold.
What is that?
Oof.
Oof.
Oof.
The camera's only running.
Some scenes can happen.
Oh yeah.
It's so off the track.
King of Comedy.
King of Comedy is just about a guy
who's obsessed with a celebrity.
I mean, who wants to watch that?
It's really cheap and dumb.
You know what I mean?
In the movie that are interesting or fleshed out in any way.
There's the Joker's mother,
which is basically an exact copy of the relationship
he has with his mother in You Were Never Really Here,
except they add in this whole like.
I mean, I don't want to say too much
for the sake of the spoilers,
but let's just say their relationship is very different.
All of you in the chat, you've seen these movies.
You know that's wrong.
And you will see these movies.
And as you do, you will be like, you know what?
That thing Ralph said that one time,
I was a fucking lie.
You were right.
Rags, how many beers have you had?
One.
Is it one?
No, it's not one.
Is it two?
One half?
Look, the video is playing.
Ruth Swain was your adopted father.
So she walks in the room and she's all like, oh my God,
it's the guy from next door.
And right there, it's obvious what happened.
Oh, he imagined the relation.
Yeah, yeah.
That's the point.
Reveal.
Asshole.
The point.
Reveal to the audience, the audience.
You know, you all that.
After it was.
We all know where this is going.
This is one of the most parroted criticisms of Joker
that they show you this and a smart person figures
this out, but a dumb person may not.
And so they show flashbacks to all the scenes
that she was in where she's not in them anymore.
And that means the film is bad because that's a whole
six seconds that could have been cut from the film.
But they didn't.
When they're blowing up Alderaan,
they're like fire the weapon at Alderaan.
And then you see Alderaan blow up.
What a waste of time.
It was so obvious that the planet was destroyed.
So yeah, I guess that kind of highlights the character
because I'm assuming that's where he's going.
I could be totally off base, but I just that's what I remember.
The idea there being like if there was an hour spent
with characters talking about how she was an illusion,
like there's just an hour.
They're like, she's not real.
She's not real.
No, she's not.
Everything she was in.
Not really there.
Flashback flashback.
Loads of papers saying used to talk about how she was there,
but she's not flashback.
And then another character getting saying,
how was that relationship going?
Turns out she's not real.
Oh my God.
I'd be like, Jesus Christ.
I get it.
Okay.
But this we're literally so I was actually surprised
on the rewatch with the flashbacks because I've seen so many videos
talking about how excessive it is.
And then it lasts.
I want to say six seconds.
I could be underestimated.
Let's just say 10 for the sake of argument.
That is even a tiny portion of the film.
It's ridiculous again.
I agree.
The flashbacks, the film would be stronger, but like,
it's six seconds of runtime.
This is the one fit criticism that you'd like.
That is fair.
You did it.
I kind of, I like,
I don't know that it's definitive.
Yeah.
I like them because when they happen, it's kind of,
it follows right after you learn that she's just like,
she'd been hallucinated by Arthur, right?
So right after you get that,
and you're still kind of riding that high of the reveal.
It's,
it's kind of showing you that she wasn't ever really there.
I think it works.
And it doesn't cost anything.
It's a big signal that he's realizing it too.
And it gives us a little bit more time to sit with the actual
fact of it, which is more important than maybe realized.
That I would say in terms of you,
you have to think about those scenes for a moment and what she
says in each of them to him and about the events because it's
actually him that's saying all of it.
It's actually like,
so just just off the top of my head,
right? Like she says that she,
she tells him he's funny when, when they first meet.
So that's, so now we know that that's him telling himself that.
And his mother was confirmed of narcissistic tendencies or,
or personality disorders was just like, oh God,
it's clearly translating to him as well.
In the scene with looking at the paper,
she describes what he did as kind of like heroic and awesome
because he is three less,
three less assholes in the world.
I think she says that's clearly what he thinks that he,
that he doesn't feel guilt for killing them.
He feels good about it.
I find that very interesting in terms of a recontextualizing of the,
of the dialogue. It's like, it's no longer her perspective.
It's his.
And so, yeah, I just think that it's,
it's a moment that could be led.
You can give it time to breathe just a little bit.
It's kind of like seeing that scene in fight club where you find
out Tyler Durden is spoiler alert.
The same guy as Edward Norton.
Right. But that's a film that you're not allowed to criticize.
So people say it's okay.
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It's okay. It's okay there.
It's okay when fight club did it though. Yeah.
And for the record, I like it in both of them, but.
Oh yeah. Fantastic author. He's my, one of my favorites.
Anyway.
She shipped with her.
I guess that makes sense because he's a weirdo.
But then because no,
he's not your ideas, but that's kind of reductive.
This movie is made for the 14 year olds who thought Batman
versus Superman was a grump.
And then because this movie was made.
So we're in trouble now.
Cause he just described this movie was made 14 year olds.
Like 14 year olds.
What?
14 year olds. Okay. So if you like this movie in any way,
you're, you're just an immature 14 year old.
He said it was made 14 year olds.
Your opinion is meaningless.
I guess that's what he's trying to get at.
Again, again, you're, you're another,
your opinion is meaningless.
Fantastic.
Gosh, why?
I can't imagine why so many people didn't like this video.
Maybe it's because,
because he called him a 14 year olds.
If they like.
I think it's because that fucking stupid children.
They are stupid children.
That's what it is.
This would be a throws popcorn moment at this video.
Someone is asking what I'm eating.
I will answer you because,
because it's up.
So this I'm having a London broil, right?
That's sick.
I would like to think,
I'd like to thank Mahler and his people for making London broil.
I think it's just a cut of the animal was very good.
It's very cheap.
You can do a lot with it. It's like, right.
It's like the, the rice of meat.
A lot with it.
I made all of it at once and I, whatever I didn't have.
I cut up the whole thing and I put it in the fridge so I can have it
later.
There you go.
There you go.
Check.
You made it for you, right?
Me and my people.
It's so good though.
Could you do anything with it?
I have no people.
In the fridge and just chill it and just have a little bite here and
there.
Go ahead.
Thank you, Mahler.
My last name is soil.
Yes.
Mahler as well.
That's way less.
Yeah.
World.
She's a weird.
World.
Because this movie is made for the 14 year olds who thought Batman
versus Superman was a ground.
And then because this movie was made for the same demo as the people.
This video is so bitter.
He's so angry and upset.
Like that.
Like Ralph.
Ralph is angry that people really like this.
Ralph, when he was googling the news and he can't,
he heard that Joker is getting all these awards.
He's googling news, which too.
And he was fine.
He found out that Joker got all these awards.
He was pissed.
He was mad.
He must have been super upset.
Oh, I can't believe it.
You have some spaghetti.
I don't know.
Matty was when that Joker made like a what, a billion dollars.
Oh, well, no, it goes further than that.
The Oscar nominations.
People went nuts.
They were like, fuck this.
This movie is a child.
Nominate.
Idiot nonsense, meaningless.
Boo.
That the 11 nominations gave me life.
It was fantastic.
Also a couple of people saying in China,
I think it's fair to bring it up at this point.
His audio is strange in this video.
Yes.
What's wrong with it?
Just different.
It feels like different parts of it recording at different times in
different ways.
A lot of them are cut harshly.
There's a couple of pops.
Like he's, he's usually pretty good with audio.
That's the thing.
I think people, the reason why people bringing it up.
I want to cut Ralph harshly.
Oh my God.
No, I, that was in a video game.
I think I should.
You're spooking Satan, right?
The opinions of rags do not reflect the opinions of the other.
Nor do they reflect the opinions of Satan.
I messed with my slicing sarcasm.
The words of rags do not affect the opinions of rags.
The words of rags do not affect the opinions of rags.
Also, if you want to know why I re-recorded so much of my first video
that I'm doing right now, this is basically how it sounded at some places.
Some like different person recorded it.
Look at Melby.
Like I'm better than Ralph, the movie maker.
Yeah. Okay. All right, buddy.
Yeah.
Seeing this, I'm pretty confident to be honest.
Wow.
Wow.
For man.
How many requests to yours?
However many subscribers he has.
You're a subscriber of life.
I'm not.
Well, no.
I don't get like life's newsletter.
You don't?
Oh, they're great, dude.
They have like, they talk about like things, loads of it.
Oh, fuck. I love those.
You know what's really weird about the Batman suit there?
Is that if you're going to make a big Batman armor suit,
why did you not have anything over your mouth?
Why not cover that up?
Maybe there's something retractable that can come over.
Just someone could just shoot you in the arm and shoot you in the mouth.
And all that armor ain't worth shit now, is it?
How would Superman know that he's frowning if he had something over his mouth?
Right.
He could draw a little frown on there with a pen.
What?
There's also no cover over his butthole.
Oh my God.
So he just poops inside it.
How are you supposed to poop with that suit on?
You need a butthole.
He has a bat flap at the bottom.
And that cod piece he's got there just lifts up.
Peeeerp.
Bat poop.
What are we doing?
Anyway.
I just want to say that now.
Because this movie was made for the same demo
as the people who liked Batman versus Superman,
we need to cut to flashbacks that show that she wasn't actually there
and spell it out to the audience.
Don't need to warn him.
He's being nice to you.
Oh my God.
Sounds good.
Everything is so bad.
So...
What is bad about it?
So you got a guy being like,
Be nice to you.
That look at the guy looking back.
They're all drunk.
They're all drunk, so...
It's like...
It's fine.
Yeah.
Did you criticize my writing?
This video reminds me of when people realized they could get a million views
for saying anything bad about Brie Larson.
So it was like, wow.
Look at this interview footage of Brie Larson.
Next to her, Chris Hemsworth raises his eyebrow.
Clearly this means she's committed genocide.
I knew it.
That is true, though.
She did probably in a video game.
Haven't we all?
Yeah, we did establish that.
What do you mean it's bad about this writing in the scene here?
Tell me why.
I need to know.
I was going to say, like, these points, not only are they very thin,
but they're not even qualified.
Like, what do you mean in comparison to what?
Like, why?
Yeah, it's just like...
It's just bad.
It's just bad.
It's just bad.
It's just bad.
Oh my God.
The acting is so bad.
Don't ignore him.
He's being nice.
Like, crazy cartoon characters.
That's the thing with the tone of this film.
Is it trying to be realistic?
It feels like it's set in, like, some grand kind of DCEU.
But if you're trying to make a real film...
What?
No.
What is it?
No, it is not.
What is it?
Oh my God.
That is not what they're going for at all.
That is not what they're going for at all.
No.
I mean, what?
Wait.
Silver can't follow.
Jamie.
Ciao.
Who's about to think?
Well, does anyone want...
We can replay that if you want more.
Because I think we all disagree.
He's just the guy who's acting is bad.
But he doesn't really point out why it's bad.
Like, he could have done this.
Or his inflection was wrong.
He just mocks him in a goofy fashion.
That's all his criticism.
Oh my God.
His criticism is so bad.
Oh, my acting is so bad.
Ralph, you're acting is bad in this video.
Ralph, yes.
Ralph, pretend that you are the director
and you're on the site.
Scene, you're on set.
Set.
You're on set.
And all of the characters and actors are doing their thing.
And you yell, cut, cut, cut, cut, cut.
And everyone stops because you're the director.
And then you say, you did a bad job.
Right?
You didn't do good.
What?
Ralph, if you were in the director shoes, tell us, right?
What would you tell the actors if you wanted them to do better?
You wouldn't just tell the actors, no, no, that was shit.
Do it again.
It's like, no.
It's like, tell your actors.
Why?
Tell them what your vision is.
Tell them.
I guess he thinks it's obvious.
Want them to do.
I guess he does.
But here's the thing.
It's not.
I don't have any idea what he's talking about.
Right.
Obviously you go up to the actor and then just mock what they just said
in a goofy fashion.
They said, oh, he's messing with you.
Oh, he's messing with you.
Do it better.
That's what you do.
They fly now.
They fly now.
They obviously fly now.
It feels like it's set in like some grand kind of DCEU.
But if you're trying to make a weird thing is I didn't, I thought he knew
this, but this film was actually designed to be standalone.
Standalone.
What evidence did he, did he see that gives him the impression that it's
supposed to be part of a grand DCEU?
We saw that video by Spring Crush.
Oh my God.
That's it all fits together.
That video appears in this video.
It's all.
Yeah.
Wait, what?
Yes.
There's a video that I responded to where someone makes the argument
that Joker is clearly a part of the DCEU.
It's a really bad video.
And my video responding to that is in this video.
So it all links together.
Oh my God.
It's a real cinematic universe.
I want to clarify.
He said a real film.
You described.
There's an art film.
It was a real film.
Like a taxi driver.
Where a guy in the back seat of the taxi just goes on and on and on to
some random stranger about how he's going to murder his wife with a 44
Magnum and, and stuff.
Yeah.
Like a real film.
But if you're trying to make a real film like an art film, then throwing
in these connections to like an art film and having these cartoonish
characters.
Why would you say that?
They're very drunk.
They're young.
They're young men who are like, have you ever gone out?
Have you ever been with people like having fun time?
Have you ever gone outside?
Have you ever not been with your dog at your fireplace at Christmas?
Have you ever like done stuff?
This is a very realistic scene.
This is how people can be.
People can be silly and sometimes they can be a little bit aggressive.
They can come on a bit too strong.
Sometimes they are not very self-aware about how they're behaving in
front of other people.
I understand that irony could be applied to that, but this is how
people are.
This is very relatable and a realistic scene.
This is how people are.
They speak in a vulgar way, not like rude, but like vulgar and like from
Latin.
We've got, you know, like in the common tongue, a colloquially, right?
This is very relatable scene.
It's not wrong with this.
This is how people actually behave.
Yeah.
I mean, get off social media for a little bit where they don't, they don't
have filters anymore and listen to how actual people speak.
And all of these people are, are they young and drunk?
They're also rich.
They have a lot of money to spend and they have all the time in the
world on their hands.
Yeah.
They're cool.
What are they?
I can't remember if they were called like investment bankers or
something like that.
They do say.
They work for Wayne.
They work for Wayne enterprises.
Yes.
And yeah, I just want to highlight Elvic in chat said Warner Brothers
didn't even finance the entire film themselves.
It was low, low budget comparatively.
It wasn't changed for China.
It's R rated.
There's no merch.
Ralph is completely off base about it being like, you know, designed to be
interconnected or whatever.
Yeah.
Well, he was asking, is this film supposed to be?
Sorry, that's too deep for Ralph.
Is this film supposed to be realistic?
And I'm thinking what's like, what's unrealistic about it?
Like that's the thing.
He says it.
This is a claim.
It's pretty.
It's a pretty big one too.
Is like this film trying to be realistic?
What was unrealistic about it?
Tell me.
I, cause I think it's fairly grounded, believable kind of film.
And dialogue, like it takes me out of dialogue.
Something funny.
Asshole.
A lot of people will say that verbatim.
Okay.
Yes.
There are so many people in my chat.
If someone is laughing at you, would you say the words is something funny?
Asshole.
Absolutely.
When you're drunk.
I can vouch for this.
People have said this to me a lot.
Okay.
People actually say this out in public and start laughing around or at a bunch
of people, a bunch of guys in a group who have been drinking a bit, they're
going to ask something funny.
Asshole.
It's just like a normal thing.
It's a really normal piece of dialogue.
It's a staple hostile phrase.
Okay.
Just deal with it.
Tell us what they should have said.
That wasn't clunky.
Tell them if you were a director, if, if they said something funny.
Asshole.
And you would say cut, cut, cut, cut.
And they stopped the director.
What would you have said?
No, no.
You need to say this.
This is what people say.
It's not that.
Tell me, Ralph.
Don't just tell me it's wrong.
No, don't just too much.
You.
Pretty.
You'll speak.
Sir.
My self.
By northern end of a southern bound swine.
There was a suggestion chat.
You have it a laugh, bruv.
That's what he should have said.
Oh, it might.
Yeah.
Okay.
Go.
Real life isn't real life isn't sanitized.
Okay.
It's not.
So they're going to get banned.
Real life.
Dude.
Real life isn't well written.
It's not real.
It's not sanitized.
It's real life is ribbed for your pleasure.
Okay.
That's what real life.
Oh my God.
Even Satan said that.
So you know, it's true.
Movie completely.
It's not realistic.
If you want to be like metaphorical with this stuff,
why would you say that?
Why would you say it's not realistic if you want to be metaphorical?
He's like, which do you want?
Ralph?
Well, he, I think he's saying he's, he's, he's drawn out that it's not realistic.
So therefore it can only be metaphorical.
And if you want to be metaphorical, I think that's his through line.
He just sort of.
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm bothered by the.
Asshole is a metaphor.
They're not actually an asshole.
I bothered by the skipping over.
Because a hole isn't even anything.
You're like, what is a hole?
It's like, it's more like a, like a gap in something really specifically
referring to that line as a metaphor.
But like, I'm still blocked all the way back at like,
why is he canceled out that this could be realistic?
What was, what made it so that it had to be defined?
People don't say the word asshole or ask if things are funny.
Yeah, I'm, I'm lost.
I'm stuck all the way back at that.
Like I said, tell us what they should have said, Ralph.
You are a movie maker.
After all, tell us what they should have said.
I just can't believe he can say this without it being a parody.
This is over and over again.
He fooled us.
I was like, no, I was only pretending to be retarded.
Yeah. I've just turned out to be parody.
That is a, that would be the case.
Yeah. Well, like I said,
we don't lose because we're countering these arguments as if they're real.
Anyway, because a lot of people do make these arguments.
So it's all good.
All of this is, but I actually,
I think the reality is much more depressing for him in that his audience
are trying to defend it would be like, it's parody.
And he's like,
I mean, I guess his, his audience didn't get it.
If this is parody, it's subtle.
I should clarify that that's kind of unfair because a lot of his audience
did not actually feel that this was a parody.
A lot of them were very upset with this video.
So, and the new thing to do now as a wait, wait, it's click.
If, if the, if this is just supposed to be a parody,
then why disabled people watching it on outside of YouTube?
Why, why disable replay on external sites?
If it's just parody, right?
Of course,
or a beta or something kind of weird.
Kind of weird.
Strange.
Strange movie completely.
It's not realistic.
If you want to be like metaphorical with this stuff,
like you gotta be more subtle and the new thing to do now.
Yeah.
Subtle comedy.
Yeah.
King of comedy.
Subtle.
Okay.
When someone gives an opinion, you don't like is to say, oh, well,
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
When someone gives an opinion, you don't like is to say, oh, well.
Yeah.
Get cold out.
Jay.
Oh.
Yeah.
Everyone.
Bad take Joker review.
The thing to do now when someone has an opinion that you don't like is to
say they're wrong.
Yeah.
This, this falls back on him immediately.
Doesn't it?
He's like, this is just dumb that you're doing this.
Like, well,
isn't he rejecting the notion of a bad take right?
Like is he saying those are impossible?
Well, then just surely by that logic,
he's saying your take is bad to have a take that says another take is bad.
Right?
No, shut up.
Like what I'm saying is this, this,
this cascades because you can't say I can just, I could,
this is why it works forever.
I should be like, it's just my opinion about your opinion.
So you can't say that my opinion is I can't have an opinion on your opinion
being a bad opinion because that's my opinion.
So infinite.
If you go to joker on YouTube movies,
how come joker ends in quotation marks,
but doesn't have one in the beginning of it?
What?
Oh yeah.
What is that?
Oh, that's weird.
Please make a typo on their own.
Yeah.
I think that's a typo.
Oh my God.
Oh, well,
they obviously watch our show.
So now they know.
There you go.
That side of character,
YouTube wouldn't make a mistake.
No.
Fun idea.
Fun fact,
the quotation mark used to be there and then YouTube released a helpful
update where they've removed it.
Oh, that is the,
yeah, that sounds like YouTube we removed a thing that was correct.
Also,
I think now it's been revealed that the title of the stream may have been
influenced by a movie maker has a bad take on the Joker.
So Macon is one of his characters,
I believe this is what someone told me.
Um, and this is a fake, obviously upload fake video.
He's,
he's pretending to have done on himself with his like parody character.
Um,
but we're now making it a reality and 12 minutes and 47 seconds.
That is weak sauce.
I'm genuinely curious if this is supposed to be a shot at me or not.
Cause like,
I'm doing the thing that he's bitching about.
Right.
I mean, it has to be right.
Like I don't,
I don't think it was deliberately aimed at you.
He just searched for that and then screenshot it.
No, I mean you personally, more so the idea,
you're just the one that was there, you know?
So like,
I'm sure this shot is aimed at all,
all five of us, for example.
Like not just you.
If you, if you type in bad take Joker review,
Jay, your video is on top.
Yay.
Michael, the best.
Yeah.
I just want to clarify.
This video also comes up as one of the first results.
I want to clarify that Jay is the problem,
not us.
Jay is the one that's been making giving if have a bad name as,
as Ralph has just pointed out.
He is the badtism.
I'm glad we've, uh,
we've highlighted this.
Yes.
The movie maker,
he has a bad take his take.
It's just a bad take.
I want to delve into the metaphors.
It is a bad take.
Well, yeah,
I would like to have him on here and I would ask him,
is it possible to have a quote unquote bad take?
And if he says no,
then I'd start giving what I would assume a ubiquitous bad take.
And just see how long it takes for him to define.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fine.
What does he have room to stand on this?
I mean,
this entire video so far,
even if it's only been four minutes has been him going over and saying,
do you see this acting?
That's bad acting.
Moving on.
He just seen his class.
Moving on.
It's bad.
Let's just do an example.
Right.
So it's bad.
Uh,
Rags,
let's play this out.
Right.
So, um,
I don't like Joker.
I don't like Joker.
Yeah.
Um,
ask me why,
ask me why.
What,
what,
what am I playing?
You're playing yourself.
Fuck it.
Am I playing?
Am I playing me?
Yeah.
You're playing.
Fine.
Play Ralph and you don't believe that such a thing is a bad take.
Okay.
So ask me why.
Okay.
Oh,
all right.
Cause I just thought I was Ralph believe in that.
Um,
what am I supposed to ask you?
What am I doing?
Jesus.
Uh,
I,
I think Joker is a bad.
Don't ask me why.
Why do you think Joker's,
why do you think Joker's a bad?
Well,
because the,
a lot of the marketing showed the working Phoenix was in the movie.
He's barely in it.
Like most of the film is about Robert De Niro's stupid show or about his
mother or about all these tertiary characters.
Like you see him for what,
like five minutes in total.
Like I really didn't even get to know him at all.
And it's like, oh yeah,
it's all a character study.
It's all nonsense.
He's barely in it.
Plus you can tell where the cuts are.
Who's J playing?
Your conscience.
I suppose.
Oh my conscious in this case.
I don't even know.
The point is that Ralph would be like, okay,
no,
that is a bad take.
And then you go,
why?
And he's like,
cause you could definitively prove that Joker is walking Phoenix is in most of
the movie.
And I'd be like,
Ooh,
so we can prove stuff.
Me.
Oh, died here.
Fucking has the shittiest role play ever did.
Yeah.
You tried.
What I was supposed to do after,
after I asked you what's so bad about it.
I don't even know what I was supposed to do.
We were improv.
I guess there was no script.
I'm sorry.
Well,
that's not well,
that's the thing.
If I'm trying to get some mind of Ralph,
I guess Ralph would say like,
are you sure you're talking about the right movie?
Because I think you could be mistaken.
And then you would say something along the lines of, oh,
but I did see the right movie Joker 2019 walking Phoenix.
That one.
So are you saying that there is such thing as a bad take?
And then you would then force Ralph to take either the position that bad
takes do exist.
But that would mean that what he said earlier was not correct.
Or for the sake of consistency,
you would have to adhere to his previously stated bad position and then
agree that it's not a bad take for you to say that walking Phoenix was
only in five minutes of the movie,
even though it can be objectively proven that he was in the movie.
What's longer than that?
Nailed it.
You see,
I don't think he believes that there's no such thing as a bad take.
I just don't think that he thinks he has,
like he thinks that he just has an opinion and that there's nothing that
you can say,
but no about,
okay.
Yeah.
I think he thinks that what he's doing is equivalent to saying,
no, I just didn't like it very much.
Well,
I don't think that he thinks he has a bad take, right?
Well,
no one thinks they have a bad take or they would have another take.
Probably.
Yeah.
But it's more like the capability of him having a bad take.
Like it's,
it's kind of uncurt,
like he can't believe that he could have a bad take on Joker because to him,
so clear, right?
Like when he made this movie and he put a film video when he made this video,
I'm sorry.
I do this all the time.
We're watching someone's YouTube video and I call it like a movie or a film.
I don't mean to when Joker made this video.
Okay.
He is.
It's at least my sins.
Um,
when Ralph made this,
I think that he thought this would be well received.
I guess I'm,
is it Hugh?
I disagree.
The amount of comments he's put in this video.
Like he,
he may as well have said in this video,
this will not be well received.
He kind of does in other words,
but it's like,
then why do it like if he knew it,
well,
no,
you bring him a good point and I just heard the next part of this.
And I remember this line.
Just watch this clip.
We're about to,
we're about to get to cause I remember the show tape.
I want to delve into the metaphors and allegories of parasite.
You call Joker porn.
So he's saying as like an exhaustive sort of point about doing all of this.
I would rather be talking about parasite and it's like,
go talk about it and do it.
Talk about parasite.
That's a great movie.
Go talk about a film that you are,
you know about.
Yeah.
Like you're passionate about.
And so this is the thing,
like it feels to me like he forced himself to make this video.
And that's why it's come out so wonky.
Cause he's like,
never try to force it out or you'll end up with shit.
Oh, oh yeah.
You know, Jay knows about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean,
I shot myself earlier on the stream.
Exactly.
And probably recently again,
you never know.
Oh yeah.
I don't know.
You know,
it's hard to tell if it's the same shit as before.
If there are,
if there's more than there was earlier.
Yeah.
Also he says that by the way,
and you expect him to go on,
but it just cuts or it feels like it's,
it's a harsh audio cut to the next point.
It's very,
look at what I mean about the strange sort of a structure.
A gory is a parasite.
That's great.
You call Joker corny.
Meanwhile you watch Mr.
Robot,
which is way corny.
You know,
Mr.
Robot has like dimensional characters in it.
That's psychiatrist,
Karen,
Mr.
Robot.
I like the,
I've not seen Mr.
Robot.
So I haven't watched it.
I like the label dimensional characters as in characters with either
between one or more dimensions.
It takes a genius to make a character with one or more dimensions.
They can't even know they can be a character without at least one.
Krista and Mr.
Robot,
she actually like does things in the plot.
She has a life outside of our main characters.
So without having,
all these people have lives without having watched Mr.
Robot,
that is a TV show TV show.
They get a lot more time than a movie.
You can,
you can dedicate entire episode to a tertiary character if you wanted to.
Don't just have that luxury.
It's a movie.
And there are pragmatic realities you have to account for.
And he needs to highlight which of the characters needed to be more than
what they were in Joker.
And then you need to clarify why they needed to be more.
Which one?
Yeah.
Story.
That one is just saying, oh, there were no spaceships.
Well, I think it's a legitimate criticism that the guy who pulled the
lever and press the buttons to activate the death star was not given more
character.
That song who wrote it.
Tell.
I did.
It was me.
Why super mode, super mode.
They're the ones who made that song.
Well, tell me why.
Tell me why is the song because someone said, tell me why.
Tell me why.
And then I think I said.
And then I was thinking of the song.
And I was like, who made the fucking song?
Because the album has the it has the motorcycle helmet on the front.
The red one.
Like, who makes that fucking song?
It's super mode.
They made the song.
Tell me why.
So thank you, Rags.
Thank you, Rags.
Let's proceed.
Krista and Mr.
Robot.
She actually does things in the plot.
She has a life outside of our main character's story.
She has a personality in this movie.
What does the psychiatrist character do?
Oh, she just regurgitates what the themes of the movie are.
They don't give a shit about people like you, Arthur.
No, she only does it because she's brought to a breaking point.
She is a therapist.
She's not motivated by what she does.
She is clearly going through the same problems that he is to a different
degree.
She's not a lot of money.
She's living in Gotham, too, as the first scene in the film is Arthur Fleck.
And he's sitting down and he's applying his makeup right.
Video man, he's talking about, he's setting up this stuff for later, right?
He's talking about how the trash is impacting everybody, rich and poor.
Everybody's getting affected by the trash.
So that's her.
She's living in Gotham.
She's got to go through all these problems.
And then once she's gone, she's going to get fired anyway.
She just flat out says it to him.
She has hit her point.
She's like a little, this is weird.
She's like a little mini joker, right?
Where she's got all the problems and bad stuff happens to her.
And she, this is like a little breaking point for her, right?
She's been fired.
They cut the funding and she just outright says it.
Arthur, they don't give a shit about you.
Give a shit about me.
She's being honest with him.
And I think that's a really kind of human thing to do.
Dare I say it.
It adds a bit of dimension to her character.
I know.
I said, I was going to say she's not someone I would highlight a single
dimension when she, you can, you can tell she's, she's,
she's listening to him and she's like,
this guy thinks that like everyone's out to get him.
Does he know that all of us are going through shit right now?
Yeah, man.
Oh, like there are scenes in the movie.
Also the highlight about this stuff, man,
the highlight we have from the other podcast where someone's like,
she's not actually like a professional therapist.
She's a social worker filling in for the job or the role.
Like she has that badge to show that they're stretched thin.
So like,
she may not even be qualified for the job that she's necessarily having to
perform or at least completely the whole point was that she wasn't.
And so yeah, like there's a lot of points.
She, he,
like Arthur wasn't getting the help and support that he needed.
And it was taken away despite.
And it was taken away.
The whole argument here is so terrible.
It's literally just the therapist characters as fleshed out as another
therapist.
You know what?
That therapist probably isn't as fleshed out as another therapist from
somewhere else.
There was only one most fleshed out therapist.
The chat, the chat said,
but we'd need a scene of her at the supermarket.
Right.
It's true.
Yeah.
It's what the themes of the movie are.
They don't give a shit about people like you, Arthur.
And they really don't give a shit about people like me.
Society doesn't care about you.
Society doesn't care about me.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
If every character was just a very skilled.
That was a very mature way to explain to me how the film is failing.
You'd think you would think that being a 14 year old.
I would find that very funny.
Very uninsightful.
I feel like you could do it was better.
Unsightful.
Full of unsightliness.
Full of asshole for no reason that I wouldn't watch the show.
Oh, Ralph, you just don't get it.
I mean, for no reason.
Higher ending was a dream.
That's like the go to response to anything you just said.
What does that have to do with what he was talking about?
The therapist is the therapist doesn't have enough character.
You don't get it.
The ending was a dream.
What?
Was there video missing between those two points?
Yeah, I'm not sure how to respond to that.
What's that textbook fan theory?
When a movie's over, it's like Joker had dreamlike logic,
even though every movie has dreamlike logic.
Thomas.
What is it?
Well, is every every movie has maybe what does he mean by dreamlike logic?
Yeah.
Like, do you mean it's like to some degree romanticized like a T.H.
White novel?
Anyone J.
Satan.
Now, what does he mean by dreamlike logic?
Well, usually dreamlike is like surrealism, isn't it?
So like something happening that shouldn't necessarily be possible.
And we get the kind of like a tangible version of that might be some Alice in Wonderland stuff.
But this really happened with Joker.
He's more like goes from real world to psychotic breaks.
There's no dreamlike logic throughout.
Why?
Why did he show him get into the fridge?
Is he trying to say that, like, that's not awesome.
He might still be clinging on to it.
He might still be clinging on to our hallucination thing that he imagined the whole relation thing.
He's like, oh, that's all the dream.
If you if you were doing dreamlike logic, surely you would use a different reference than him getting into a fridge.
Yeah.
Well, you won't get to do a fridge in real life.
You only get to it.
Maybe Ralph always just dreams of being inside fridges.
The fridge is too cold.
You can't get in there.
Stop it.
What I feel like what happened is he's like, oh, there was people that said that said it's all a dream.
So let me get those weird scenes out of the movie.
See, that's dreamlike.
Some people just drown themselves at the bottom of a bottle.
Ralph just frees himself inside.
Do that.
You read it.
So just upon bread.
I don't think I don't think that Joker was a dream at the end.
And here's why.
So so at the end, right, we see the scene of the clown man, not Joker, the other clown, the writer man.
He shoots Thomas Wayne.
Spoiler alert.
He shoots Thomas.
The spam is a back metal.
Kill them.
And then amateur sex video.
I prefer amateur sex videos, actually.
I like them when they're.
I like that.
I don't.
They seem so fake.
Like they're not even really into it if they're professional.
They just don't.
The spammer said society doesn't care about Jews fact.
I don't know.
I don't know about that.
I couldn't fix that.
Mods kill those people.
But the Joker isn't a dream because the writer shoots Thomas Wayne.
But he kills the wife too.
If this was all a dream by Arthur Fleck.
Why would the man kill Thomas Wayne's wife?
She hadn't done anything bad.
She hadn't done anything to Joker.
She hadn't done anything.
And we have multiple instances of him sparing people because they were nice to him and they hadn't offended him or wronged him in any way.
So why would he all of a sudden randomly break from this consistent rule that he'd be following?
It doesn't make any sense.
You see, it doesn't make any sense.
Right.
So there you go.
That's my reason.
Little dog and beer emojis in the chat.
Oh, you all said false.
Dun dun dun.
Oh, my God.
What?
What part's false?
I don't actually.
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
Maybe.
Maybe.
But also the fact that we even see that happening is like why would that be part of the dream sequence if he wasn't even there to.
Seems weird.
I don't know.
Kind of odd.
But I think in any case amateur sex videos.
Yeah.
Those are great.
Just put one in the watch together.
Yeah.
Because I don't know about you.
But like the ones that look really, really professional where the chick is like obviously a super mega hot person and the guys like this stud.
It's just like that's not real.
That's all fast food commercials where you're like, you know, it's not actually going to look like that.
Like falling down.
It's dream logic.
Oh, my God.
We're referencing falling down.
I just put an amateur porn video in the watch together.
We appreciate the subtlety of the storytelling.
Dude railing some chick.
Right.
That's subtle.
It's as subtle as the king of comedy.
The way the jizz catches the qualities of the light when it streams.
Oh, yes.
The flow is being shot really says something about the ugly people.
The way the jizz refracts the quality of the moonlight.
Oh, no.
No logic.
Even though every movie has dreamlike logic.
Thomas Wayne.
I mean, Bruce Wayne's father, who's just a cartoonish dickhead punch a joker in the face.
He's not a cartoonish cartoonish.
You remember that?
Oh, boy.
All right.
He's not a cartoonish dickhead.
Okay.
He's pretty frustrated by that point.
The fucking Randy starts laughing at you.
At that point.
Put his fingers in your child's mouth.
Have just played hands on his son and almost threatened to.
Actually, he started choking out for the death.
He just let go because he realized what he was doing.
And then you suddenly see this man who assaulted your butler and your son in the bathroom with you.
Daddy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He says like, you're my dad.
Don't lie to me.
And he actually shouts to them at one point and then he starts overtly laughing at him.
And obviously, Thomas Wayne doesn't know that's a condition.
Yeah.
I want to I want to clarify that me and Rags have been more than aware of this argument from lots of videos.
And upon rewatching something, I completely forgot.
After he punches him as he leaves the room, he says, don't ever lay hands on my son ever again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He says, basically, if you ever touch my son again, I'll kill you.
Yeah.
It's a father protecting his son from a creepy weirdo.
You don't like what an asshole putting their body parts in your child's mouth.
What a cartoon.
And like I have to say that like I'm willing to bet it's just incompetence.
But come on, Ralph.
Like you cut the before and after away.
Like, not cool, dude.
And why is he doing this?
He's going to prop up King of Comedy.
He's going to say King of Comedy did this, but better after creating a straw man out of Joker's characters.
Like, not cool, bad, hit with newspaper.
Who's just a cartoonish dickhead punching Joker in the face.
Jerry Langford was way more realistic in how he dealt with Rupert.
Jerry.
But these are different characters.
Different characters with different contexts.
Exactly.
I don't remember a pumpkin ever like laying hands on a son.
I don't remember a pumpkin ever laying hands on Jerry's son.
I don't remember a pumpkin ever strangling his secretary or something.
No, because those things don't happen.
And you know what's funny is at one point, pumpkin gets what you could call violently thrown out of the building.
Yeah, kind of.
Yeah.
And the security they do forcibly removing from the building.
Right.
The only thing that these two things, I mean, they're two males wearing clothes, speaking in English to each other.
Are we getting broad again?
Are we getting broad?
One's rich and famous, one's not.
I mean, it's basically a rip off of one another because when the two males speaking English on the planet Earth talk to each other.
That like never happens ever.
Never.
Not once.
Never happens.
Well, it happened in King of Comedy and in Joker.
I don't know that.
Yeah.
But for those of you, for those of you who have not seen King of Comedy, the King of Comedy, the King of Comedy,
this is not anything like the bathroom scene in Joker at all.
Not even in a bathroom.
I mean, I say the world's your bathroom.
I'm a dog.
Also, this is the beginning scene, like the first time they meet.
They're actually good there because he helps him get into his car and they talked a little bit.
I mean, the the talk show guy was a little bit annoyed, but the dance like, yeah, sure, whatever.
Get us some tapes or whatever.
Thanks.
Wouldn't it be great if in the bathroom scene, just like as it was getting really intense in the background, you heard.
Oh, yeah.
No, yeah, that's better than what I was going to say.
Just pull out the dick, start pissing on each other.
I love you, dad.
I love you, dad.
You're just like me.
Gumpkin won't piss it off in a day.
Oh, I'm sorry, Jay.
What was it if you don't mind?
No, yours is better.
Well, I got some people waiting for me.
I really don't know what my schedule is.
Maybe we can.
OK.
Take it.
Go ahead.
Take it.
And it's when he starts to first get impressions that Rupert isn't entirely normal because he keeps pushing him.
So it's good scene because I like this movie.
It's very it's very well put together.
I enjoyed this joke.
Consider it a gift.
It'll work for you.
I will.
Nothing you need to help.
Jerry, seriously, you ever want lunch?
My treat.
We keep pausing for the safety of the string.
Yes.
All right.
You never know.
That's a high note.
Also, yeah, Ralph got hit with copyright on this video at some point.
So I'm just going to be extra careful because I don't know what it was.
This is like a pretty long scene.
I can imagine that this one.
OK, OK, OK.
OK.
Jerry.
Who's getting pissed on that one?
Oh, sorry.
Yeah.
Jerry.
Jerry reveals later that he's like the only reason that he was being nice to him is because he wanted him to fuck off basically.
It's just like, yep, you definitely get that impression.
Meanwhile.
Oh, well, that's fair.
Look at that comparison.
Wow.
This isn't a sleazy edit in any way whatsoever.
These scenes are exactly alike.
Same context.
We show the beginning.
You didn't even show their conversation.
Yeah.
We show the beginning of their relationship in King of Comedy to this where it's already escalated.
It's like, oh, cool.
Yeah.
Good job.
Yeah.
What if I show was I'm punching people in the face.
What I should do is show a clip of Joker and him having a back and forth like arguing about the situation, saying, like, see, this is really great character.
And then look at King of Comedy and I show a pumpkin getting thrown out of the building.
And I'm like, oh, yeah, OK, that's it.
Cool.
Yeah.
And then like I cut to another piece of like Jerry shouting at him in his house, being like, why are you in my house?
Be like, see, terrible.
But then how is Joker supposed to look bad if he does that?
Oh, shit.
Fuck.
You got us.
It's almost like fucking bullshit.
OK, remember, I just did.
Just continue.
I say something mean now.
No, you wouldn't know.
It's a man.
I'm listening.
Talk to my son through an iron gate.
Joker's talk to us.
Because he talks to my son through an iron gate.
God damn it.
I just said I was going to say something mean.
God damn it.
Ralph, you piece of shit.
Listen like this being a fucking liar.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Ralph lying to you.
This is Ralph.
Lying at this point is the charitable interpretation.
This is this is Ralph.
He's become a deceptive.
To you.
This is Ralph being very, very deceptive.
He's very, very deceptive.
Ralph doesn't show the fact that this stranger just walked up to the gate
and put his fingers in my son's mouth.
He didn't show the part where this weirdo dude
just put his fingers in my son's mouth.
Started strangling my butler.
No, no, no.
Don't show that.
Don't show that.
Just say something.
Play a clip of something semi-relevant.
And then just go to the next scene.
Just go to the next scene.
Just don't even talk about it.
Fuck you, Ralph.
You're a liar.
According to Ralph,
if someone puts his fingers in your son's mouth and you punch him out,
that's being a cartoonish dickhead.
Yeah.
I almost am like, if you didn't punch this guy,
like arguably being a piece of shit,
if you didn't punch a guy, putting his fingers.
Well, there are lots of acceptable reactions to it.
If you don't try to stop him, then, yeah, you're being a piece of shit.
Yeah.
People get very protective of their children.
I don't know why that is.
I can't figure it out myself, but.
No idea.
I don't want to protect your kin child.
Huff spring.
You're supposed to silly cartoonish asshole, Ralph told me.
Because only silly cartoonish assholes protect their children.
Ralph is a poorly written character.
I don't believe that any real person would be this stupid.
Yeah.
That's why I keep getting the parody vibes.
He's a cartoon.
These arguments are only convincing if you haven't seen either of these movies.
Oh yeah.
That's the other really big problem with this is
this is really great to appeal to people who've either not seen the movie or
don't remember it very well because they'll be like, yeah,
I guess that is how it went.
Ralph's right.
This is just Ralph is fucking.
What do you mean?
Like lying to your face.
I would say like Ralph, but he watched the movie in order to make this video.
So that's what he had to get the clips.
He saw the films.
Ralph is lying to you.
Yeah.
I'm going to let him get away with some poor man because he talked to my son
through an iron gate.
Talk to his son.
That is so.
Talk to his son.
He's out of chat.
He's like, hi, little kid.
What's up?
Let me put my fucking fingers in your mouth.
It sounds like people trying to defend Captain Marvel.
And not to mention, by the way, that all Thomas would have been told was all from
Alfred and Alfred is not going to have a good position.
Like you'll probably be like, this guy was trying to tempt your son outside of the
gate.
He was touching him.
He's putting his fingers in his mouth.
Yeah.
This is the guy.
This is the guy who is the son of the delusional lady who tried to, you know, like
this is just all bad.
This is this is really bad.
This guy.
Bad news.
You just cut that out there, Ralph.
Wasn't a restraining order or something taken out on Arthur Fleck's mother by Thomas
Wayne or something?
Possibly.
I think I took legal action.
Do you mean in like the set of files?
Because I can't remember if anyone mentioned it.
I forgot, but I think there was something I can't remember correctly.
Yeah.
Um, you know, a lot of people like lie or incompetence.
Um, what do you, what's the vote of the, of the, of the table?
It's a lie because you can't know.
Fuck Jay.
God damn it.
Listen, Jay, he had to go and get the scenes.
He watched the film.
He knew what happened in that scene.
He knew this is Jay.
This is a scene where Arthur strangles a man and Ralph just said, I talked to a scene.
He talked to his son through a gate.
No, Jay.
No.
You eventually used to Jay.
I'm going to tell you about being a man, right?
You can't let people walk all over you like this.
But even worse is that you can't let people walk all over you.
You can't let people make, make you a victim.
You've got to stand up for yourself.
You got to call the stuff out when it happens.
Okay.
Okay.
Jay, you got to stand up and grow a spine bone.
Don't let people do this to you.
I'm going to, I'm going to take the strange middle road.
I'll be quick.
I swear.
Uh, pack said deliberate mischaracterization for sure.
I think that he felt that this was just a bending of the truth.
Like there's some extra details that don't matter.
I think that's what he would probably argue.
He'd be like,
a lot of people have been echoing the whole he's clearly mentally ill.
It doesn't matter if he did those things.
You don't treat mentally ill people this way.
That sort of argument.
It's like those details are irrelevant.
He's clearly unhinged.
You need to help him.
You don't need to hurt him like that.
Like, I think that would be his rationalization,
but then you could be like,
but you are leaving details out and he'd be like,
there's detail, whatever.
I think that's probably, so it's like a mix of the two.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Look,
they're parity.
This is a straight up lie.
That's it.
It's either parody or a lie.
It can't.
There's no honesty here.
Okay.
I agree.
I agree with Satan.
There's no honesty here.
When Satan says you're a liar.
This man is a liar.
He's a terrible, terrible liar.
He could at least have been a good liar,
but he's just a terrible, obvious liar.
Okay.
Be a better liar next time.
Well, I mean, that's the,
the four tier beef happens that we try and watch these things before watching
the videos so that we can be like, hey detail,
but it looks like this.
We didn't even need to see the movie for this.
Like even chat, like furious.
Yeah.
Poor man.
Cause he talked to my son through an iron gate.
Joker's other supposed father figure,
which is Robert De Niro.
And the only way this ending is able to happen is through this completely
unreal list.
Can you please?
Which ones are unrealistic?
Exactly.
Satan.
What parts of this are unrealistic?
Can you point to the parts that are unrealistic?
It actually kind of seems like it all follows.
I'm assuming he's doing the,
cause this is a common criticism the whole like there would be no candid
camera in this time.
They'd never put someone's tape on a show,
which apparently is untrue.
Like I don't have the specifics on that,
but I don't even need them.
Cause this is a fictional universe.
All we need to know is that it's possible.
It is possible.
It is.
It's logically possible.
And I think that they set it up.
Well, all the scenes happen is through this completely unrealistic set of
circumstances.
So Robert De Niro has a bit on his show where he's watching the jokers stand up.
You can say that again, pal.
I don't know, man.
If I saw this on TV, I probably laugh.
I'd be like, damn, that guy sucks.
That's kind of his job, isn't it?
Yeah.
Because the Arthur flex stand up, his stand up routine is bizarre.
It is out of this world.
Bizarre.
Uh, if you,
if my job were to be a stand up comedian talk show host kind of guy to show
this sort of stuff to make you laugh,
a set up this bizarre and unusual would be on my top of my list.
Yeah.
Like, uh, I don't know.
A lot of people, this is the thing, the biggest arguments are like,
it's unrealistic.
It's like, hmm.
I don't.
I want you to, to people who say that.
Let's just transpose this to a more modern example.
Yeah.
We got YouTube.
We got the internet.
Think of all the crazy people.
No compilations and videos go viral.
What's yeah.
That's the future rags.
Not the past.
You know what?
Remember hide your kids, hide your wife, all that stuff.
Remember, uh, I, I ran for my life.
All those.
Oh, you mean on like news reports and stuff.
Exactly.
Yeah.
These people just, they go viral, right?
This is the, this is the, the quote unquote internet of that time is the TV.
People tuned into it is a big deal.
It's totally realistic that someone could get put up like that.
And then they could kind of become somewhat of a sensation, right?
Especially in a city like Gotham.
Right.
It's kind of self contained in a way for us in the case.
Feel free to elaborate on that.
If you wish, gentlemen.
No, I think you covered it perfectly ranks.
I wasn't last night.
Good job.
Right.
You're fired.
I talked to your manager.
Oh, you're unaware of your own bad.
I'm not going to say who it is.
I don't, I don't want to talk to them.
Me in a wig.
Stand up.
You can say that again, pal.
Robert De Niro starred in both tax driver and king of comedy.
Oh my God.
It's influences on its sleeve.
And then he gets probably why he's not.
He's probably why he's in this movie.
I was going to say like, I was, I was saying this to Rags.
It's like, isn't it cool that the person he looks up to is the same actor who
played the character who looked up to a TV show host.
Like there's a cool connection.
He's like, no, rip off.
You're like, Oh, I think that's really cool.
I, I kind of, I like that.
It's almost like, I, when we were watching that earlier, I almost called
your eggs.
When we were watching that earlier, Mahler, I was saying, you know, if you
kind of changed the timeline and the name, just a little bit, this could be
in the same universe as king of, or, uh, yeah.
King of common.
Maybe he just looks like an amazing 60 year old in king of comedy.
He changed his name.
And then he like went on a drug bed or it all just came to Murray.
Murray's estate.
I want to clarify as well.
I wasn't saying that Ralph is saying it's a ripoff.
I don't think he's used those words yet.
It's just that that seems to be the general sentiment.
It's like Robert De Niro's in it.
It was pretty clear.
He was ripping it off.
It's like, that's not, that's not a through line.
You can say that again, pal.
Robert De Niro starred in both tax driver and king of comedy.
The film wears its influences on its sleeve.
And then he gets a phone call that tells him to come on Robert De Niro show
because he wants him to talk to him on the couch.
And of course, this same guy also happens to be famous for killing the
three people on the subway.
Hang on.
No, he's not.
No, he knows that.
Nobody knows that until he's on the couch.
Yes.
That's where he reveals that he was the one who killed him.
Like Ralph is going to.
This is just a coincidence that the murderer happened to be called up.
Oh, is he, is he, is he just saying like, wow,
what are the odds of the guy who was doing all of this is also the guy who's
getting called onto this show?
Guy who has a really crazy, bizarre set up.
I think so.
I think it might be like,
Logically possible.
And that's kind of the idea of the whole movie is that there could be a
remember also knows this isn't called the Joker.
It's called Joker, right?
There could be more.
They're out there.
All it takes is to have all these things,
people off the edge.
The right amount of.
There's like, there's like hundreds of them.
It's a lot.
The right amount of stuff happening to the right person at the right time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
The right amount of stuff happening to the right person at the right time
creates Joker.
Let's just, let's just replay that to make sure that's what he says,
which even though it's a random, sorry, let me.
He gets a phone call that tells him to come on Robert De Niro show because he
wants him to talk to him on the couch.
And of course this same guy also happens to be famous for killing the three
people on the subway,
which even though it's a random killing has become a beacon for this
movement to take out the richer class.
And of course this comes up on the show.
Well, I'm glad that all worked out.
Um, it's not like that.
So it's relevant because of that.
So this was set up like from rumor.
This, the first scene of the film.
We hear on the radio.
Voice in the radio is saying trash stuff and how the heating bills are
happening.
It's affecting the rich.
It's affecting the poor.
It's affecting everybody.
It instantly sets the tone of what's happening in Gotham.
And throughout the whole movie, we see this stuff as well.
We see its impacts on people and how they deal with it personally.
We see the state of the streets and the cities like this is all set up
for really, really well.
I don't get why you don't see this.
It's actually, it's like, it's set up in an obvious way.
How does Ralph?
Who is it?
I mean, he's suggesting it's contrived for the person to have done those
killings to have also been the person who was seen in that standup shot to be
brought on this show.
But the problem is that both of those events.
Draw back to a specific character traits, right?
So like the, um, the gun being, uh, something that was on his person was
something that lost him.
His job was something that, uh, happened because of his insecurity slash
paranoia slash being manipulated by coworkers because of getting beaten and
the, um, the intention to become a comedian.
Who, to write jokes, the aspiring career and his, um, appreciation of this
talk show host, like these are things that are, this is like different, um,
plot lines that are all being developed from character traits going forward.
Yes, they can, they, they can coincide.
Like there's, there's no, you have to highlight where it is that it, it breaks,
uh, some kind of ridiculous likelihood.
Um, but, but I don't think any of it does.
And the idea that it comes up in the conversation that he's killed these
people is like he intends to kill himself on this show.
He's not got anything.
He says I've got nothing to lose.
So why not admit to the world?
I'm the guy who did it.
Remember this, he wants attention.
Like that's one of the biggest things in this film is he wants admiration.
He wants people to look to him.
And at this point, no matter what he does with his plan, this is like the
point in no return, right?
He's not planning on going back to a normal life after this.
This is where he, he soldiers forth with his plan, whatever it may be,
either he's dead or he's killed somebody.
Either way, he's basically a, he's crossed over the point of no return.
Why not admit it?
And before all this, even before he shot Mary in the head, he had already
murdered that guy who gave him the gun in the first place.
He killed his own mother.
He, he made a big, I don't know, big ruckus over there at the Arkham asylum.
He's already pretty much, he's pretty in deep already by the time he gets to
the talk show.
So he's already set on his course.
Yeah.
I don't think it's contrived that he brings that up.
I think that's a weird comment.
I mean, he gets chased by the police when he's going into the talk show,
right?
He had to escape the police on his way to talk show.
And to all I'm going to, okay.
So imagine being the police.
And then you see that like you're chasing a dude and you're like, ah, fuck,
lost him.
Well, time to turn on a favorite show.
And then he's like, oh, that works out.
Okay.
For all the people, this is Ralph saying this.
He said it a few times for all the people who say this is an incredible
coincidence that all of this could actually happen.
Right.
Then again, it's all logically possible, but remember, right?
When we talk about coincidences, everything that is happening in your
life, you, as if you, you watching this right now, you,
everything that got you to where you are is the product of a million,
billion crazy coincidences,
which are only insanely unlikely in like hindsight,
you know, like when we look back,
we say that's an insane coincidence that could have never happened.
But to us, that's how things happen.
That is the reality of what happened.
So don't worry about it too much when people say like, oh,
that's an insane coincidence.
Right.
Like you are where you are because of a gajillion coincidences lining up just
right.
So it's okay.
What I would say is that we've got,
we just have fundamental traits that, uh,
then all lead to the events in this film.
Like why does he shoot those guys?
It's like a combo of his character traits plus the world building.
Um, I guess to a degree plus the plot,
why does he end up on Murray show?
It's like,
it's almost entirely his character plus plot as in he wanted his aspiration
was to be a comedian.
That was fundamental from the get go.
It's like,
what would,
what would one do if one was trying to become a comedian?
It's like,
I don't know,
probably tried delivering their material and like a standup circuit and stuff.
And it's like,
uh-huh,
is it possible that could be recorded and seen by the people?
It's like,
yeah,
it's,
it's pretty much done at that point.
This is joke.
You could,
that's the thing that's what's so great about choker is that you look at the
end of the film and you're like, okay,
let's say you're like a film detective.
You're like,
well,
I guess you happened in the cinema,
right?
You could trace everything back step by step by step.
And there is never a step there where you go,
that's not,
that doesn't make any sense.
And you never have to say that because there's always a logic,
logical,
like a,
like a progression from one event to the next.
And you can trace it back and trace it back to a bunch of little fucking punk
kids taking a man's sign, right?
And he,
he going and going and going,
look at all ends up,
lines up.
It never breaks the rule of the progression from one step to the next step is
illogical and insane.
And it doesn't follow through.
And that's one of the reasons I really,
really like Joker.
And I think that's one of the reasons why a lot of people are like,
yeah,
like Arthur Fleck is kind of like me in a way.
There's a little bit of Arthur Fleck in all of us because it's,
it's all logical progression.
It could happen.
It could be me and some crazy alternate.
Right.
You look at the,
the Pixar formula that the famous Pixar formula where,
where they use the,
you know,
one day there was a man named Martha Fleck.
He,
every day he was a clown and got beat up on the street.
Every day he got beat up and he got a sign,
a sign stolen and he was blamed for it.
And then because of that,
this happened because of that,
this happened and because of that,
he got a gun because of that,
you know,
it goes on and on and on to the very end.
And so finally he shoots Murray in the head.
It's all step by step progress.
One,
one thing leads to the next.
That's how you write a story.
I mean,
that's how you write a cohesive plot.
That's kind of what I meant about drawing it back to what the fundamental
start of all of it is.
As you,
as you just said,
he's like a,
he's a,
he's a guy with a clown job.
It's like,
okay,
we take that and we don't need an explanation for that.
We just like,
that's it,
right?
So what happens next?
Like,
is there a possibility that someone could steal his sign to fuck with him in
his day to day?
It's like,
absolutely.
Then what happens?
Then what happens?
Then what happens?
And you just keep going.
And you have that one running at the same time as you have his,
his interest in being a comedian running.
That's your base.
Then you go,
then what happens?
Then what happens?
Everything runs nice and logically.
And those two things coincide with the show with Murray.
Yeah.
He fucking shoots him.
Class.
And of course this comes up on the show.
Well,
I'm glad that all worked out.
You think that killing those guys is funny.
I do.
What a coincidence.
I guess it's some of that dreamlike logic, right?
They would just invite.
No, no,
I got to Ralph.
I got to like everything.
Like I said,
everything,
when you take what it is,
what happened?
And then you look back.
You can say literally everything that happens is a series of insane
coincidences.
But.
Right.
It's just a highlight one.
Right.
Like follow.
How is it that I met you well before I'd met basically any of the
YouTubers and we managed to start up Efap very soon after all the
TLJ stuff happened.
What are the odds of me meeting you and Wolf?
You just so happened to have made just that one video that I just so
happened to have watched because I just so happened to have been
recommended it.
You decided to send a message that I happened to catch because it was
a YouTube message,
which is unlikely to catch.
Everything is the product of a trillion different incredible
coincidences when you look back.
But something had to have happened, right?
Yeah.
And that's what I began.
I was like,
I did make that video.
Is there a chance that Rags would have seen it?
It makes sense.
The Rags would have seen it.
Does it make sense?
The Rags would have been so interested in it to send me a message to
just hang out at some point.
It's like, why not?
Why would that not happen?
You know, it's like,
exactly.
Chill out with these.
It's not the same as fucking Han Solo turns up to the Millennium
Falcon five minutes after it's moved away from Jakku that happened
to be the exact same place as Palpatine's fucking daughter in a
junkyard.
It's way too contrived that that's just the sequel trilogy as a whole.
It's a galactic coincidences as a whole.
What?
The sequel trilogy is a whole.
Yes.
The whole point is that is what happened is like from getting from
step one to step two.
Is that logical?
Step two to step three.
Is that like a reasonable thing that would have actually happened?
Yes. Okay.
Keep going.
Keep going.
That's the thing.
That's the link between the steps I need to keep.
So is this one that is more extremely gay now?
What?
Some of that dreamlike logic, right?
They would just invite this random guy on there to know he's not a random guy.
He's very specifically the person from the video.
I don't know why you'd say random guy.
They didn't just pick a random person to show up from the audience or
something. No.
Well, no.
So what would have exactly what would have happened is that that
video was so bad.
Murray would have been told about it.
Right.
In this day, right.
So have we got an example any time recently of a really bad video coming
out and then a host being told about it by several people and then showing
it.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Interesting.
This real life is poorly written.
How to not check him for weapons.
Your son's been hit.
So this is actually something that I find fascinating as a criticism.
Why didn't they check him for weapons?
It's like, why would this is what the 19?
When was the space 1970s, 80s?
Seventy eight, I think.
So this is this is before a lot of significant crackdowns on security
happened.
That's before 9-11.
Nineteen eighty one is one joke.
And if Kibble has taught me anything, you can before 9-11, you can even take
the katanas on the on the plane next to you.
So, you know, yeah, like a lot changed after certain events.
And you can see how how rather low security this whole thing is, of course.
And he's got it in his ankle as well.
It's not obvious or at least it's not obvious to someone who's not familiar
with guns.
No, they didn't they didn't fully pat him down.
I don't think that that was standard back then at all.
The guy on there to talk on the couch and not check him for weapons.
Your son's been hit by a drunk driver.
He's dead.
Yeah, they yeah, they didn't they didn't check anyone for bombs on airplanes
either.
Right. That was just that was a different time.
All right.
That was a different time.
No, no, no, no, no, you cannot joke about that.
Yeah, that's not funny.
Oh, Ralph, you just don't get it.
The whole ending was just a dream.
Stop saying that the dream.
No, I hate.
No, I think it was real.
Well, for the sake of criticism, let's just treat it as real, Ralph.
I don't need you to keep saying like it was a dream.
Therefore criticism invalid.
No, no, no, no, we're not we're not going to do that.
That's fine.
Yeah.
Every character in the movie is just an asshole and a liar and ignores Joker
deceives Joker.
So what about the ones who aren't assholes and don't deceive him?
Like, I can say someone in this video is an asshole in a liar.
Well, they're the ones that he mentioned earlier.
So how is he saying this now?
Like, you can't tell.
Like, this is the beam where you go.
All of them are beat except the ones who aren't.
It's like, okay.
Yeah.
There are.
There are there are more than one mean character or at least three.
Like, it's a really boring criticism.
Come on, man.
Even you counted your own argument here.
And a liar and ignores Joker deceives Joker steers Joker down the wrong path
because it has to reinforce this message that society is bad.
Society is bad.
Yep.
The movie.
I don't know the part.
Yeah.
I was going to say, I don't think the movie is trying to make it that clear
cut that it's just all of society sucks.
Boo.
It's more.
If you are bad, then bad things will happen.
But to those who are good and kind, good things can happen.
There are loads of flawed elements of society, no matter the political
system I imagine.
And there's always going to be flawed people.
He happened to be one of the people who experiences all of the worst
parts in a row altogether.
If anything, the scene is shown here, like she and her own way is also a
victim, right?
You know, like we're in like, listen, Arthur, you and me, we're on this
together, right?
I'm not a bad person.
I'm a product of circumstances, right?
There are, there are villain, there are, there are people who impact him who
are not necessarily doing it for malicious reasons, right?
Like this chick here, she's not like a bad person or anything.
One of the qualifiers he had was like ignores Joker.
Apparently, I guess she would come under that, but not even necessarily that.
Yeah.
Because she does give him quite a, what you would call a down to earth
response to what he's rambling about or well complaining about.
No.
Like I wouldn't agree that she's ignoring him is what kind of what I'm
getting at.
But even still, like it's just, uh, I don't know.
I just think that it's a very poor read on the film to just be like society
bad moving on.
It's like, whoa, hang on.
He's a little bit more complicated than that.
He had a huge budget.
You can tell because any artistic integrity or originality is completely
removed from this film.
Taxi driver and king of comedy are so tight.
They aren't bogged down in scenes that need to extend.
No, no, do not tell me.
Do not tell me that taxi driver is not bogged down in scenes that we don't
need.
All right.
I get it.
He's fucking around with his guns in his apartment.
I got it the third fucking time.
I get it.
I promise you.
I understand.
Okay.
Don't tell me that about taxi driver and the scene when we Mahler and I
watch this again, every scene has got a little something.
Everything tells us about him in some way.
It illustrates how he thinks about things, how he acts.
His thought process and how it changes over time from one thing to the
next.
It all shows us how this one guy becomes Joker, right?
Yeah.
I'd like to highlight how incoherent that series of statements were.
That was he like says, uh, low.
It's really high budget.
He moves into creativity has been sapped out.
He moves into there's no redundant scenes in taxi driver.
Unlike this movie.
You know what I mean?
Like those three things.
It's just like, huh.
I feel like a few sentences are missed between those that connect them
together a bit stronger.
Cause this feels weird.
Just listen to it again.
Yep.
The movie had a huge budget.
You can tell because any artistic integrity or originality is completely
removed from this film.
Big budgets.
Can't have that.
Yeah.
I was going to say, it's like, do you really want to make that statement?
Artistic integrity is not a thing for big budget films.
That's wrong.
But be like, so like, tell me Ralph,
what are the scenes and joker that are redundant that we don't need that
don't tell us something that don't make a statement or tell us or inform us
about the 10 seconds of flashbacks.
Don't need to.
Oh my God.
It's six seconds.
Also, I want to highlight as well.
Uh, some of the people have been discussing this in chat and, uh, the,
the common criticism applied to jokers is about nothing,
but simultaneously it's too on the nose about what it's about.
Right.
Sometimes life be like that.
Bob says doesn't care.
No, I'm not saying I'm saying this is the general view that a lot of people
parrot. It's interesting.
I'm not saying I haven't heard any one person provide both of those
statements. I'm just saying it's an interesting thought.
I'm not hearing any disagreements.
I must be Jesus.
Well, let's ask Satan.
It is bad.
Yep.
The movie had a huge budget.
You can tell because any artistic integrity or originality is completely
removed from this film.
Taxi driver and king of comedy are so tight.
They aren't bogged down in scenes that need to extend the universe of the
film.
Travis.
Oh, I can't even tell you.
I'm really sarcastic.
Let's let's check that.
That criticism out specifically for seconds film taxi driver and king of
comedy are so tight.
They aren't bogged down in scenes that need to extend the universe of the
film.
Extend the universe of the film.
Wait, what is he trying to say?
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Is that his way of saying world building?
So this is my no, this is so he's saying that like it's like a DCEU film
bullshit where it's so the joke is walking down the street and he sees a guy
bumps into a guy and a guy goes, hey, out of my way.
And then he's like, who are you, man?
He goes, I'm Aquaman out of my way.
And then you're like, oh, my God, Aquaman film suit.
Yeah, I remember that scene.
So, you know, like, so clunky when they just do that universal stuff.
So my mother who knows nothing about comic books or Batman or anything else
saw Joker loved it.
And I asked her about this, the Wayne family and stuff.
And she was like, what about it?
I was just like, what do you think about it?
Like the storyline, the plot line, did you understand it all?
And she was she even went on to talk about how interesting it was that the
child was left alone as a result of all of this, which is a reflection of Joker.
I'm not going to get into that right now because I really like thinking about it.
But we'll do it if it comes if it comes relevant.
But it becomes relevant.
But a lot of people who know about Batman see this as some kind of universe
baiting shoehorn thing when it actually you can swap all of their names to
instead of Bruce Wayne, it's just Bob Wagner and his butler.
And it all works.
You don't need it to be Bruce Wayne.
And this is proof that they function in the story without having to rely on the
extended universe.
Quote unquote.
This film was stand alone.
They did not intend to make a sequel.
Arthur Fleck's journey in this movie is is intimately tied in to the Wayne family
because he thinks at one point he is the son, the abandoned son of Thomas Wayne,
which actually plays into what Arthur Fleck is looking for, some sort of identity,
some sort of something to call himself.
Like I said, in that one line, he didn't know he really existed until the whole
event in the subway happened.
So Arthur Fleck is really focused on getting something that makes him feel alive,
something that makes him feel like he exists.
And this revelation that he might be Thomas Wayne's son is something he can
really grasp onto.
And the fact that it might not be true and the fact that he was rejected
wholeheartedly by the man who might be his father, it really crushes him.
And that's important to how to where he goes was the end of the movie and why he
goes there.
Satan's.
I don't like this criticism.
Why has this criticism as well?
He's like, oh, the way the shoehorn did.
I'm just like, present your argument because it's weak because you have this
film could rename.
It could be anybody.
Which means that you want in.
It's like, no, no.
If you told me that this movie wasn't even intended to be a DC movie about
Joker, it was just some guy.
And then they were like, oh, wait, this could be like a Batman movie.
Then they reworked some details.
I don't believe you.
I believe you.
And this is the thing.
That's why I use the example.
What would be forced is if there's lots of posters of some kind of other
superhero that's around and everyone's like, like Superman's already around
and then like at one point Joker looks up and he flies over and then he's like,
I wonder what his life is like.
And then it just says, it's super bad coming soon.
This is always really, you know, talk about shoehorned references.
People always bring up the Rogue One, one where the characters are walking
through like that area and they bump into the two people from the bar and a
new hope.
Like how, you know, why is that shoehorned?
Well, because the likelihood of that is staggeringly low.
That is insane.
It's just like, well,
nothing for the story either.
Yeah, there's no reason they're there.
They just bump into.
You're just in there.
It'd be one thing if Thomas Wayne and Ralford and Bruce Wayne were just in
the movie just to be in the movie.
Did you say Ralford?
Ralford.
Ralford.
Ralford.
That's pretty good.
His name is Ralford now.
But they're in the movie for a reason.
Okay.
They're central to Arthur Fleck's journey.
Okay.
They're not just in there to say, Oh, look, it's a Batman movie.
And then they're never seen again.
And it was pretty cool to have Thomas Wayne talk about how people wear masks
because they're cowards when his son is going to grow up to be Batman.
Oh my God.
And also on an off note, this does nothing to really do with his criticism.
I really like the fact that Thomas Wayne is kind of portrayed as, you know,
he says that, you know, he looks down on poor people.
At least that's what he looks like on TV.
And so he's not, but the meta narrative is, you know, outside this movie,
we know that his son, Bruce Wayne, grows up to be Batman.
And he idolizes his father as this patron saint of what it is to be good
and right and truthful.
And I really like this idea because it really builds and feeds into heroism.
The idea of heroism and romanticism.
And how much Bruce Wayne did idealize his father.
But you see the real Thomas Wayne here in Arthur Fleck's journey,
he's just human.
He's kind of a jerk and not exactly perfect.
Like calling everyone clowns was an asshole move.
Yeah, that's a jerk move.
I kind of like that personally.
And there's nothing to do with the criticism of that.
Yeah, no, I know what you mean.
Like the POV, because I can totally believe that a growing up Bruce Wayne
would have thought his father was a hero.
I love that part.
I really like that part.
It's all functional and it doesn't have to have a sequel to be functional.
It's not like we're like, well, why did you, why did you bump into Aquaman?
Why did you see Bruce Wayne?
I need to know.
I need these other movies.
And they do that, by the way.
You know, they do that in the movie.
Well, I think they've announced it.
I think they will.
Rags and I were talking about that and we're very, it's just concerning.
I will watch it.
The likelihood of a Joker sequel being as good as this film is low.
Very, very low.
Yeah, it's very low.
Is it the same team behind it?
Apparently.
Well, we got the director and writer, which is very important,
but Joaquin Phoenix isn't confirmed yet.
I'm not sure what the plan would be without him.
There are things you can do, but I don't think they would do it.
This is the history of it.
I guess.
Listen, I specifically said to Mahler earlier that it might be better if they
don't have Joker and they instead tell the tale of like a different character
or something or how they perceive the events of the Joker and how it maybe
influences them.
That's actually a theory that I really, I really enjoyed.
This walking Phoenix's Joker is not the Joker that Batman would face,
but he's like the inspiration for the Joker that Batman would eventually
face.
Yeah.
I like that.
And I happen to know that in the comics there are three Jokers according to
the supercomputer or whatever.
Oh my God.
Three Stooges.
Yes.
100%.
Oh my God.
Taxi driver and king of comedy are so tight.
They aren't bogged down in scenes that need to extend the universe of the
film.
Travis and Rupert are active in the stories.
It's Rupert's and Travis's character and actions that caused them to spiral.
Joker.
So it's Joker's choice to take the gun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, he definitely makes choices.
I mean, we could talk about how affirmatively each of them.
Like push the plot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But they're definitely.
I mean, I think that's one of the weaknesses.
A taxi driver is showing us the progression of how he got to the point where
he's in.
But with Joker, it's so solidly explained along the way how he does.
Soddedly.
Soddedly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I agree.
It was clearly Joker's choice to kill Robert De Niro.
I don't think anyone's going to be debating that.
Yes.
Like in real life, it's a combination of choices he made and things that just
happened to him anyway.
If Ralph was citing like, you know, it wasn't entirely his choice to shoot the
guys on the subway out of self-defense, I'd be like, I can see a conversation
there, but it was absolutely his choice to fucking execute the last guy, wasn't
it?
Yeah.
Like the idea that you, you quickly react.
Absolutely a choice.
You can choose not to.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm saying there's a conversation to be had there because the idea that you like
of reflexes or responding to the idea that you're about to be killed is less
of, it's less of a choice to make.
It's still a choice.
It's just, but I would say that it doesn't matter because he fucking hunts
down and kills the last dude.
So yeah, I don't know.
Let's see if, let's see if he qualifies this.
Travis's character and actions that caused them to spiral.
Joker gets beat up a lot.
It's not your fault.
Your life sucks.
It's the fault of society.
Everyone.
So, um, there's loads of things to talk about as to exactly how Joker became Joker.
And I just don't, like, I don't want to spend a million years talking about this
film as if nobody here has seen it because the whole point of this review is that he
did see it, but to broadly say, like, society, it's like,
he gets beat up by poor people in the beginning.
And then he gets beat up again by rich people.
They're in the subway.
Okay.
It's, it's, it's society.
It is, ironically speaking, it is society.
Okay.
I know it's a, I already need to say it by now.
I know it's a meme, but yeah, it's society.
It's not the poor people who are bad.
It's not the rich people who are bad.
It's the general society of Gotham city at that moment.
That's full of toxicity.
Yeah.
Unrest and disappointment, anger, bitterness.
It's all over the place.
It's like some kind of brood.
Oh my God.
I returned.
The one around you is just a jerk and beats you up.
So the solution is to shoot De Niro in the head.
What?
Not everyone.
Come on, man.
Fuck.
This is weak toes.
Why do you still put reductive flames?
That's not true.
Fucking taxi driver.
I don't know what to do with my life, so I'm just going to kill people.
What?
Is this all?
I think we might be out of sync.
Is this all he does?
Like, oh, we have text driver does this, this, this, this.
A joke is like, he just shoots people in the head.
Okay.
Let's move on.
It's only nine minutes.
He just leaves out all of the movie.
And everything happens.
Joker.
Just like this is the conclusion because he is signed or stolen.
If I was going to reduce taxi driver and say, oh, Travis Bickle,
he just thinks all the world's problems are going to shoot the politician in the head
that one time.
Like what?
What indeed?
It's all society.
Sorry.
Everyone around you is just a jerk and beats you up.
So the solution is to shoot De Niro in the head.
Oh, are you having some psychological issues?
Your notebook looks like a crazy person's notebook.
He doesn't have good handwriting because of his upbringing not being focused on education, obviously.
It's actually part of graphology, too.
Crazy people tend to write like crazy people.
Their lettering and their syntax is erratic.
Are you saying that there's a difference between crazy people and normal people?
And honestly, I know a novel idea.
I know.
What is his handwriting quality is not anywhere near as interesting as what he's writing down.
Yeah.
Come on, Ralph.
His disturbing jokes.
Those are really good insight into his kind of disturbed mentality.
He wants to be a stand-up comedian, but his jokes are really disturbing and a really good look into what he's actually thinking.
You do well today.
Also, OK, so Joker has many redeeming qualities.
Joaquin Phoenix is a good actor and he saves this film.
The cinematography is decent.
Wow.
Shame.
I'm a 14-year-old for liking it.
I hope this isn't the complete list of redeeming qualities.
Oh, gosh.
Well, you got two.
I think he knows what the word many means.
More than one.
Joker has two qualities.
A couple of good qualities.
The cinematography is decent.
Many redeeming qualities.
Here are all two of them.
I very much like the cinematography in Joker.
I'm not going to fucking say it's the masterpiece, but decent is not the word I would use.
This really highlights how well Joaquin Phoenix plays the Joker part, because even Ralph Ridd has to say his acting is a great quality.
A lot of people don't deny that, but they also want to like asterisk it.
The one I've been seeing a lot lately is like, he kind of just went crazy, though.
Like he's just an actor.
Well, there's tweets I've been telling you guys about where they're like, he broke his foot kicking the dumpster, idiot.
Do you know what acting is?
You're not supposed to actually break your foot.
I'm saying the same thing about Django when he hits his hand on the actual glass.
Yeah, well, I was going to say the more apt example I imagine is the one to one with Viggo Mortensen in Lord of the Rings.
He kicked the helmet.
He broke his toe or his foot, whatever.
I guess he's a bad actor now.
By the way, this has nothing to do with Ralph.
This is a tweet from somebody that said that.
It was really annoying.
That's why he shouted in that one instance, isn't it?
A tweet from Ralph?
No.
Viggo Mortensen.
Yeah, he yells.
He kicks the helmet and he yells in frustration.
That's actually because he broke his foot.
Its influence is on its sleeve.
It's not really subtle at all.
That doesn't mean it doesn't have good elements because it certainly does.
Phoenix's performance is terrific.
It was a nice change of pace to see a superhero film that looked like we were moving.
Why is he a superhero film?
Why is this a superhero film?
Say those words in your mouth.
He thinks he means comic book film.
He must mean comic book film.
No, I think that he is calling a superhero because I guess in his mind they're just like one and the same.
Yeah, it's like the genre.
Kind of.
This is DC, so it's a superhero movie.
They're called Batman.
He's a superhero.
Therefore, this film is about, this is a superhero film.
You know all the superpowers and super stuff that happens in this film.
It was even established.
It's definitely not realistic.
My favorite part of this film is when Joker flies up to the sun and punches parallax with the giant green fist and he falls in the sun.
That was awesome.
That was pretty awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just, I just be like, Ralph, he'll call it a superhero movie.
Come on.
Have good elements because it certainly does.
Fucking.
Phoenix's performance is terrific.
It was a nice change.
Yeah, the audio is a superhero film that looked like a real movie.
The audio was terrible.
It wasn't infested with CGI.
The lighting wasn't all flat and boring.
I just overall think it's pretty mediocre.
And I really wanted to delve into like the themes and explore this film a bit because maybe there's something a bit more to it.
But I honestly am just not even interested because I don't like the movie that much.
You don't say.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I gleaned that from the video.
It's been very subtle about it.
I think it was very subtle.
I could barely tell you don't like the movie.
Thanks.
And it comes from a place that I think is a bit bankrupt.
It's not a Jonathan Glaser film.
It's not stop.
Just make the argument.
Everyone else, you handle this because I'm like, I'm just going to go off on this guy.
I have to explain how it's not artistically bankrupt.
Well, that's that's the problem, right?
So people are always like, I'm fucking a fab takes like a million years to respond to any points.
Like, do you see what he just did in like two seconds?
He said the film is artistically bankrupt.
You know how long we can take to respond to that?
That was a terrible point to make.
Awful.
I'm picturing like a guy with a bowl of poop and he just throws it into the center of the room, smashes poop everywhere.
And then we have a mop and it's like, well, this will take just as long as it took for him to throw it.
Right.
I want to respond to it too.
I want to respond to it too.
Do it.
No, it's not.
No, it's not. Nailed it.
Good job.
Oh, man.
Something I actually want to explore.
It's a by the numbers copycat studio movie.
There we go.
Copycat.
He said it now.
How was the Joker in any way by the numbers?
I was at a copycat.
What is it copycatting?
And don't say taxi driver without fucking qualifying it.
Explain it.
Explain it to someone as if they haven't seen taxi driver because I had to watch taxi driver for the first time because people kept saying,
Joker's like taxi driver.
Joker's like taxi driver.
Now watch taxi driver.
It's not fucking anything like taxi driver.
That's insane that people say that.
I think a lot of people they hear that and they're like, oh, yeah, because that it's most it's most flat.
It's most basic, most like absurdly simplistic level.
It shares a similarity in a very, very broad way.
But like it's nothing like we said at the beginning.
It's like which of the four movies that we mentioned was it most like it's like, well, you know what?
There's parts to all of them that you can connect to Joker.
But I think you can say that about literally everything.
Like you can connect parts of movies to other movies, to other movies, to other movies.
Or a hero trying to defeat an evil force or a protagonist who has to overcome adversity to do a thing that he wants.
Oh, what's that?
The Matrix?
Well, that's just fucking the Chronicles of Riddick, isn't it?
No artistic integrity, no artistic value to this movie, apparently.
I guess the Joker didn't take enough bananas to walls.
What?
Good reference.
Jay, you don't know about the banana?
No, I don't know about the banana.
Oh, my God.
I'm about to be.
You got points today in 1917 and now you just lost them all again.
Wasn't it sold for three hundred thousand dollars?
Yeah.
So someone, I guess an actual artist.
I don't know how else to describe them.
They taped a banana to a wall and it was like a set piece in a gallery and someone paid three hundred thousand for it.
And then some guy tore it off the wall and ate it.
Some laundering scene.
I was going to say that.
Yeah, that sounds like money laundering to me.
Did someone write it like blood on the wall?
Epstein didn't kill himself.
Yes.
Now that is art, OK?
Some good red.
Wow, you said the same thing I did.
You copy cat film.
Wow.
Yeah.
Warner Brothers in the past has just been trying to copy Marvel.
OK, let's copy Scorsese character studies from the 1970s and 80s.
What is this editing?
How can you say?
OK, this is definitely a parody.
How do you say this with a straight face and this not be a parody?
Who is this?
Straight face is gay.
It's made to panda to teen age.
Gay face.
It's made to panda to teen age.
Fuck off.
What does a gay face look like?
You know, he probably should explain to people who haven't seen these movies because this video is made seemingly specifically for people who have never, ever hardly even heard of these movies, let alone seen them.
Can we read what's on the screen now?
We can't.
I was just going to say the structure of this video is a nightmare, like all over the fucking place.
The studios will only green light comic book movies now.
Joker is an attempt to make an adult superhero drama.
Does not stand on its own.
Fucking put an apostrophe when you make the possessive form of it.
That's a double in there.
You can't just add fucking apostrophes on something else.
It's not how this language works.
You make films.
It's exactly even Joe knows that you enjoy those.
But it does not stand on its own as a drama.
If the what the fuck is that?
If the Batman Joker brand was not attached, attached, attached, attached, attached.
Wait, did you actually spell that wrong?
Yes.
We're at two fuck ups now.
That's about one every two lines.
Do you understand?
It's a tad of Chad.
That's how you supposed to pronounce it attached.
Attached.
Attached.
If Joker brand was not attached to the film, it wouldn't have.
It wouldn't have.
It would not have been successful and most likely would not have even been made.
It's made to pander to teenagers.
Well, he's consistent.
He's at least he's consistent in his message.
He's continuously consistently lying.
He said 14 year olds earlier and 14 is in fact a teenage year.
Teenage year.
Nice.
Still the overall.
Still a big gigantic lie.
This is dishonest and misleading.
Well, we could take one line at a time.
Oh no.
Studios.
Every line.
Only green light comic book movies now.
Nineteen seventy.
That's just a stupid thing to say.
So we're trying to get that out, Ralph, were you not like, oh yeah, that's right.
If he was here, I guarantee you'd say like, no, not all films.
I'm saying like mostly.
Oh, but that's that's an irrelevant point.
Yeah.
Well, my response to be to him would be like, oh, well, that's not the point I'm responding
to.
I'm responding to the point you made in your video.
Well, no, he doesn't even matter.
Most or most films of comic book movies now, you know, like a lot of movies get made.
Therefore, another one existing.
Joker is an attempt to make an adult superhero drama.
Not a superhero movie stand on its own.
I agree that it's adults.
What is it?
What are you highlighting as the problem?
Show me the superhero that's in this movie.
Yeah, clearly Batman.
He's just young, young important.
It's pronounced on its own as a drama.
So tell me, Ralph, what does it need to really be a drama?
What does this movie lack that if otherwise it possessed would make it a drama?
It lacks the supreme subtlety of the king of comedy.
Oh, my God.
Do you mean the one where the protagonist says the title of the film?
Yeah, that one.
That's the that's the on point subtlety.
You need the Joker so they can be an actual drama.
It's at the attach it.
Attach it.
All right.
It doesn't stand as a drama.
If the Batman Joker brand was not attached to the film,
it wouldn't have been successful and most likely wouldn't have even been made.
Probably wouldn't have been as successful now.
And it probably wouldn't have been made as it stands because it's got its Joker.
So if Joker didn't exist, it would have to be called something else.
I mean, you would have to exist differently.
Laugh her.
Maybe he wouldn't have gotten the funding if he couldn't attach here.
Like I just like I think with some of these points,
I'll just be like, meaning what?
And I'm waiting for him to conclude.
That's a bad where I'd be like, how is that bad?
The man.
Infinitively.
Um, and it's made a panda to teenagers.
I would say it's red.
That comment is frustrated.
What does the R stand for?
Restricted rate.
Restricted rate.
What is that?
It's not what I was expecting.
Rhino.
Rhino.
Rhino.
Rated to Rhino.
Rated R for Rhino.
All right.
Let's enjoy this section then.
Whole frontal milking.
Joker isn't the first R-rated superhero film recently.
It's different in a way because it is, I guess, more mature.
I hesitate to use that word mature, but I guess it is.
Because we'll think back to Deadpool, right?
Which is clearly a comedy.
It is an adult R-rated film with a juvenile comedy and maturity.
Not dichotomous.
Do not say that they are.
I don't think he said they were.
He said it was juvenile.
He's trying.
Yeah, but.
I think Rags got that from him saying like it's Joker's more mature
because and then Deadpool is and then declared a couple of things
and said comedy and it's like.
But.
Oh, no.
I fucked up.
I'm so sorry.
That's not what my mouse click was.
It's not over guys.
No.
We go again.
Why?
Why did it cut all the way back to a fucking clip of Jared
Lena's Joker?
Like really?
I fucked up.
I fucked up.
I fucked up.
I want some.
You want some beef.
And I accidentally was a little bit high, but my pointer was on the thing.
I saw it was on the thing.
Okay.
I believe we were like.
Was it nine minutes ish?
This is a copy Scorsese character studies from the nineteen seventies
and eighties.
Corporate.
Joker isn't the first R rated superhero film recently.
It's different in a way because it is, I guess, more mature.
It is different.
In a way.
In a way.
In a way.
It's a joke.
In a way.
Different from Deadpool.
I didn't realize that.
Different Deadpool.
In a way, it's different.
The Deadpool.
If you want comedy.
They have the other places.
Yeah.
Pupkins meeting with Jerry was different than.
Arthur flex meeting with Thomas Wayne.
Same sort of difference there.
Well, you have.
Both male protagonists.
So just saying.
Remember when all the grasshoppers at a bugs life or talking underneath
the sombrero hat in the desert?
I remember that.
Yeah.
It's similar to like, it's,
it's different in a way from the D day scene and saving private Ryan.
Just, it, just the details though.
Oh.
The detail.
Ralph.
Ralph gave 1917 three and a half stars.
What?
Out of what?
Out of what?
Out of what?
Out of what?
Well, the, the, I guess the way to understand it was six out of 10 is what
no seven out of 10 is when he gave it.
I guess.
I guess.
Three point three point five out of five.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Bullshit.
Don't you imagine he gave it three point five out of 10.
That would be fucking insane.
I wouldn't surprise me though with this garbage we're watching now.
Apparently he makes good stuff.
It's just, I haven't seen enough of him.
I think I've seen.
People think cosmonaut variety now makes good stuff.
Yeah.
Well, it's not like everybody is cosmonaut variety.
All right.
Oh my God.
That would be a world to live in.
Not everyone's that retarded.
So I remember watching his Game of Thrones one outside of a few points.
I thought it was pretty good.
Like he said that Stannis was well handled in Game of Thrones and it hit my
soul.
Moving on.
It's used that word mature, but I guess it is because we'll think back to
Deadpool, right?
Which is clearly a comedy.
It is an adult R rated film with a juvenile sense of humor.
It's violence is cartoonish and funny.
Logan is a film that tried to push boundaries more in this respect.
And Joker is.
Do you see that in the bottom left?
No, I did not.
Joker is a film that you think Joker wanted to be like this film much.
Fucking.
That's an odd sentence.
That is that is an odd sentence.
Do you think Joker wanted to be like this film much?
No, no.
How do you?
Okay, we've been dealing with the taxi driver and the king of comedy and
they're like, Logan, we're at once.
Give me the connections because I am.
It's like male protagonist.
All right.
I personally like Logan, but it's nothing like the Joker at all.
It's two totally different journeys.
Oh, he means because it's good.
No, I think so.
That might be it.
That's the only way it's like Logan.
Both good films.
Joker and Logan are both excellent.
That's how it ripped it off.
Stole the idea of Joker being good from Logan.
That Logan film was good.
Let's rip that off.
Which part you want to rip off?
Like it'd be good.
Why would you put that there?
You just try to piss people off.
Like, why would you do this?
Why are you the way that you are?
He's really angry about this.
Like the fact that people like this film, he seems like like I understand.
It's like when something is really bad and loads of people like it.
And you're like fucking really?
No, stop.
Like, like whenever I was talking about how brilliant something is and it's
terrible, it really does wear you down.
So I understand why he feels his way, but he's wrong.
He like throws the gun down instead of shooting.
Murray opens up his Wolverine claws and just stab, stab, stab, stab, stab, stab.
And we're like, whoa.
That would separate my expectations.
And Joker is the final form of that.
The final form of like adult or mature quote unquote comic book movies?
It's a good film.
What is him happening in his video right now?
I guess he's just saying that Joker makes sense that it happened because the
way was paved by Logan and that was paved by Deadpool, which I don't even
necessarily disagree with that.
He's a joke.
I'm more like asking, why does he have this on screen right now?
Like, is Joker a good film?
Oh, God, we're only half way through.
Yes, it is a good film.
Well, let's let's all five of us answer that question before he does.
I'm going to go with yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Absolutely.
All right.
Nailed it.
So what are the five of us and 14 year olds?
No.
And everyone knows how democracy works.
If he says no, we still win because there's more of us.
Yeah.
One of him get five.
So I want a podcast on that podcast.
I said Joker was a good movie.
I think I said Joker is a good movie before.
Yeah.
So I'm going to explain why, why I'm an idiot.
Oh, it's okay.
We already know.
But you were right before you were right before.
We discovered it organically.
I see now.
Now he said that.
Oh, no, he was an idiot before.
Okay.
So you think that have someone having it?
Would you would you think that would you say that you had a bad take before?
Oh, no.
No, he just changed his opinion.
What's wrong with that?
That's not how fucking day you Jay.
Okay.
You've been ruined since you hung out with that guy.
He changed his opinion, but he was right.
Both pronounced electronic fat.
Well, I did pronounce it that way.
Anagramically.
I read them.
That's a lie.
Anatomically.
That's an A.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go P.
Ew.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
Do it.
Normally it's FAP then P.
God.
Yeah.
P FAP sounds like it means something else.
I wonder.
I've never actually like masturbated while I was peeing.
Is that.
Sounds like it.
Functionally possible.
I don't know how it works mechanically.
My science teacher when I was 14 told me that you couldn't do that.
What do they, what do they know?
I mean, I guess you can't simultaneously ejaculate while you're peeing.
He told the whole class that it's impossible to pee while you're having sex.
Boy, did I prove him wrong?
So.
Pissed right on his face.
Yeah.
Give him a piss direct to me.
Oh my goodness.
That's the old Mexican Halloween.
God damn it Martha.
Pissed erect on me.
Ew.
Please don't pee.
I love movies.
I love going to the movies.
So I'm sitting down at the theater.
I'm watching a Joker movie and I enjoyed it.
You know, I was enjoying it because it,
I'm sitting down in a movie theater watching a movie,
but there's a more to a film than your initial.
There's a motor film.
There's a more.
To a film.
Watching a movie,
but there's a more to a film than your initial impression of a film.
And when you see it.
Agreed.
There is more to a film than your initial impression.
I agree.
I agree.
That's why I fucking despise the last Jedi now.
And when I walked out of the theater,
I was just confused.
There is so much more going on in a film.
Like when you watch Citizen Kane for the first time,
I got to admit like,
I'm sure his point is valid,
but whatever Citizen Kane gets brought up in a video essay,
it's just like.
I'm going to get to watch that movie these days.
Because well, in case you don't like it.
I've never seen it.
I don't know if I even care about it.
Like it's so old.
It's the movie.
If you haven't seen it, you're not a film critic.
So like imagine how Jay feels.
He's not a film critic to like the nth degree,
but he didn't see anything.
No, so prestigious.
Good enough.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's a pass.
If you're a moron, you go.
That's boring.
That's a boring movie.
Whoa.
Whoa.
Whoa.
You know what?
I want you to watch film.
That's just paint dry.
Literally paint drying.
This is my film about paint.
See, we've applied the coat of paint and now it's drying.
You're an idiot.
If you think that's boring,
he would say that's fair.
Probably.
He's saying, you're not allowed to find Citizen Kane boring specifically.
What?
Oh, no, it's not.
But why is he?
Why is he?
Why?
Mahler.
Why is he trying?
Sorry.
Tying.
Tying.
Boring.
Finding things boring to intelligence.
I don't.
I don't know.
Like.
It does.
It does.
Not as strict through life because this is the thing.
Like my.
If someone watched Prestige and told me they found it boring, I'd be like, yeah, I mean,
I could, I could see how it's possible.
What did you find boring?
Like, and then you can explore their reasoning.
You can't just say if you find it boring, you're a moron.
It's like, yeah.
Okay.
Watching football and television is boring.
Some people think that my favorite book, right?
My favorite book is Count of Monte Cristo.
Right.
Love it.
Alexandre Dumas.
He's a black man.
And he wrote this book.
It's amazing.
It's fucking stellar.
It's my favorite book ever.
Guess what?
If someone said, you know what?
This film's.
Sorry.
It's fucked.
This book's really boring.
Then I'd be like, yeah, I can actually, I could see why you think it's boring.
It's yeah, absolutely.
That doesn't mean they're stupid.
This means that they found it boring.
This means that the one's exciting to him.
It's the peak of subjective.
There's a reason.
So like, it's kind of our job, well, some of us who have it as like their main sort
of income right now, like, I guess it would apply to a lot of people in general who don't
even have it as a main income, actually.
But it's kind of the job to go further than boring or fun.
The idea being, I like this film.
It was fun.
I don't like this film.
It was boring.
It's like, it's our job to go further.
It's like, we can't just say that we're supposed to explain why and why things do stuff to
our feeling tisms.
So what I'm getting at is the like, I think we did this on an EFAT before or stream,
but boring is irrefutable because it's describing how you felt, but then if they say it's boring
because, and then for example, Joker wasn't in Joker enough.
He's in it for like five minutes.
He'd be like, okay, that's stupid.
Apparently you weren't even watching.
Hey.
But Jay, listen to this.
Okay.
You ready?
Mm hmm.
Like when you watch Citizen Kane for the first time, if you're a moron, you go, that's boring.
That's a boring.
No.
Wow.
Like you could, you could recognize all of the things and the themes and the scenes and
the subtleties and all that.
You could recognize all that, but also be like, you know what?
I was bored.
Guess what?
I was, when I watched Taxi Driver, I was bored for a lot of it, but I get it.
I understand all this stuff.
I paid attention.
I'm still kind of bored.
All right.
It doesn't mean you're stupid because you find something boring.
I just think that's really unfair.
No one of people pissed at this video.
It's like, what the hell, man?
Because for reference, I've heard quotes about this, but this is well past what me and Rags
had seen at this point.
So with a lot of these movies, if they're good, people tend to have, you know, they
might like it.
They might dislike it.
And then, but if they're good movies and they're well structured, you can see the value in
it even after, I mean, months after you watch the initial viewing, you can think about what
you saw.
You can watch it again.
Maybe you can find more points, more points of value.
And with bad movies, you can't really, you don't really have that.
It's just, it's just bad.
Maybe I liked it before.
Maybe you find it all right when I watched it the first time, then on our second viewing
or we could think back on it like, wow, that was awful.
I really want to see it again.
I don't even think about it anymore.
And I'd like to highlight that, like, Ralph, can I just say this about everything?
Like if anyone ever says boring about anything, and then he's like, no, Citizen Kane's difference
is deep and intellectual.
I'd be like, yeah, so is Teletubbies.
Fuck you.
Ralph is literally being the strawman version of objectivity that people like to turn into
this.
Yeah.
We have to be the subjective people here.
We have to be like, hey, guys, he's wrong because this is entirely up to you.
It's not something that can be definitive about.
Everything is super subjective and you can find things boring, but still appreciate them.
And like, you know what, like how many times are you bored?
Like let's take school.
Let's say you're at school and you're in a classroom and you're learning about stuff
as like, and you're soaking up all the information and you're learning stuff, but you're bored.
That doesn't mean you're stupid because you find it boring because you don't understand
that it's exciting that the fucking mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell.
And that's why they look to find as many different ways as they can to teach people stuff because
boredom is like the biggest killer of being able to absorb information.
They're like, we've got to find more interesting ways of delivering it.
Yeah.
I hate being bored.
Boring sucks.
I've been boring.
You watch Citizen Kane for the first time.
If you're a moron, you go, that's boring.
That's a boring movie without actually reading about Citizen Kane.
And yeah, you have to worry about it.
You can't just watch it.
You got to read the books about Citizen Kane classes and you have to watch all my videos.
You have to donate to my Patreon.
Oh no.
Hang on.
No pallets of cash directly to my house.
I know that reference.
Oh, it's because we watch it at the same time.
Good ref, reference.
You can have a film that was impactful on cinema and it still be boring.
Yeah.
2001, if someone said 2001 is boring, I'd be like, I mean, I've heard a lot of people
describe 2001 as boring.
Boring.
Me, for example, I watched it pretty recently and I was like, let's do a test in chat.
One, one for 2001 being boring, two for it being exciting.
I'm making a false dichotomy deal with it.
Yes.
Vote.
Exciting.
Even if you didn't think it's boring, it's not exciting.
Read the book.
Wait, you're saying it's definitively not exciting?
No.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I'm curious how chat will react.
Let's see if we get some more ones or we get some more twos.
Yeah.
1.5.
Damn, you ruined my false dichotomy.
Yeah.
Let's just say press two if you're a fucking idiot.
Yeah.
If you're a moron, press the wrong one if you're smart, I'm seeing a lot of ones.
Oh, guys, do you know how moronic you are?
You know, the 69, I see a 1.2 billion trees of green, red roses, too.
Oh, that's that's nice.
That's a reference to that film Madagascar.
4.20.
That's a reference to good morning Vietnam.
So, yeah, it's a common, relatively common for people to say, I just I've heard from
a lot of people.
The 2001 is boring.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
I read a little bit about it after I watched it.
And apparently, even back in the day, people were like invited about this, like some people
were like, this is amazing.
And they were like, yeah, that's very reasonable because one doesn't one has a lot of atmospheric
shots.
Yes, it still holds up very well.
Yeah, it still holds up very well.
Very impressed with the visuals.
I was like, wow, that's still looks pretty fucking amazing.
The ending is stupid.
That's your opinion.
And you're you're a moron.
I have it on good authority that you're a moron because you don't like space, baby.
I would expect very clearly that you are a moron for fetuses 2001.
The same thing with any other film that you can listen to that's people say are boring.
Meanwhile, they think jokers agree.
Did you just say any film you can list the people say are boring?
What?
That's that's that's like all films.
So if you say any films, OK, so the straw man rags came up with slightly those sort
of what has now been.
Sorry.
He has said it.
God damn it.
Is this a parody?
So come on, Ralph, read the description.
I'm going to read the description of you.
And he's like, ha ha.
I totally fool you guys with my stupid dumb shit.
There is that this is definitely.
Oh, my God.
This is definitely a description.
He's just said category film and animation.
OK, if you took the link from here, that's a it's a reupload.
And so we know it's it's the original I'm looking at.
Oh, my God, he is stupid.
Oh, no.
Well, yeah, you know what?
I found his description boring.
So I guess I'm a dummy.
This video, you know what?
No, I'm not going to say this video is boring.
I'm not going to go that far.
I know.
I took the film video.
It's entertaining in the same way.
Suicide Squad is entertaining.
There's definitely one of them.
I was only pretending to be retarded.
Monsters was boring because there's a bunch of fucking idiot people talking.
Breaking film and its impact on cinema
and the same thing with two thousand guys boring thing with any other film
that you can list that people say they all look for.
Well, they think Joker is a great movie because they sit down in the theater
and they watch it once and they go, wow, that was a good movie.
What the fuck are you saying?
Is this just like him lashing out against the good cinema?
They watch the movie and they say it's good.
This is some elitist bullshit.
Yeah, I'm better than you.
I don't think Citizen Kane's boring.
And I don't think 2001 Space Odyssey is boring.
And but I Joker's dumb.
And if you like it, you're dumb because I didn't think it's boring.
People walking out of movies.
It doesn't happen.
It never happens.
Instead of watching this, can we watch J.
Longburn reacting to this?
Yeah, he's he is gatekeeping.
Like, I'm just picturing this big old gate and he is he is moving it.
He's making it very thick and he's preventing any of us from moving past it.
He's like, no, not just because we're too stupid to understand good cinema.
Well, according to Ralph, if the 100 percent of people like 100 percent
of movies when they first see it, that's why people like the Joker.
Is this this statement here is so because it's people
Joker's presented in a way that normal people can understand it.
And it's really like it's not like simple, but it is simple.
But it's not like simple, like a fucking episode of J.
Day, the jet plane was like, yeah, sharing is caring.
But with the Joker, it's just it's easily digestible.
Anyone could watch the Joker and be like, oh, OK, I get it.
I understand it.
Let me be pretentious for a second.
It's it is impacted cinema to a degree.
It's isn't it the most successful R rated film in history now?
Yes, I think so. Yeah.
And it's shown that comic book movies, quote unquote,
can absolutely be profitable when not marketed to a wide audience.
That's going to change things.
And I know you could be like Deadpool and Logan prove that.
And it's like, well, three is a pattern, right?
So we got a definitive now.
And this is the biggest success they've had out of the three.
So the idea like if we're going from you said it was boring,
but it changed cinema.
It's like, all right, well, you know, is there can I argue with this change
cinema and you found it boring?
Well, did you say you found it boring?
I can't remember.
I was just I was just laughing because when you when you search on YouTube,
bad take Joker review, the two that come up with this one and Jenny Nichols one.
They both got really bad takes on this movie, but it's a good job
that Ralph is not a wahman.
So we would all be.
Oh, God, we'd be dead.
Though there may be some backlash for this because you can identify as a woman.
Don't get you to keep it.
Well, I was actually going to go with like this is the first time we've covered
Ralph and Ralph is definitely Ralph is in this this tier list.
I would put of YouTubers where it's like, hey, they're good.
And it's like, yeah, no, I'm sure like they they're great and everything.
It's just that this is not a good take.
And this isn't us saying you should never watch this person.
OK, like you just don't know.
So some some people have blind spots is all I can say about this.
Like we all we all fuck up.
Look at look at Mel.
I mean, I've literally never made a bad video.
I'm crying and.
Oh, I guess I guess they are boring.
Meanwhile, they think Joker is a great movie because they sit down in the theater
and they watch it once and they go, wow, that was a good movie.
And they don't think about it at all.
When you actually take a second to think about the film you just watched,
it's a completely unoriginal, bland superhero movie that takes from tax.
Well, when you actually think about the joke, it's OK.
You realize it's a movie, but it's not.
I don't know.
You need to do is to cut a little bit here, cut a little bit there.
That's fucking terrible.
Name the superhero, then who is the superhero in Joker?
Ralph, tell me point out.
Clearly, it's Murray Murray, super charismatic.
He's super a program show.
Clearly, no one here who likes the Joker has ever
reflected on the movie or watched it again or thought about it a second time.
I'll just watch the theater.
That was good. And then we own here just defending the Joker.
Is that what does that what happened?
This video is hoes mad.
Oh, like Ralph is just like outright say we're halfway through.
He hasn't he hasn't actually told us white shit yet.
He's just. Oh, I think.
No, he did. He did.
He said that Thomas Wayne punched him for no reason.
Oh, he said he's bad because the movie's bad.
He's convinced. Yeah.
Idiots, morons.
He's just outright being like he's upset.
He's angry. People like this.
This is like the video.
He's upset. People like this film.
Do you think he has like personal beef with someone who worked on it?
Because that's my explanation right now.
Walking Phoenix, Gary, you're moving with shit.
No one likes you like him when he was younger.
One time, Ralph, the movie maker,
he was at a comedy club and he gave stand up and it was like this video.
It wasn't funny at all.
So people laughed at him like we're doing.
And then they played it on television.
And this reminds him of that.
So he hates it. It makes sense.
Rex, Rex, can you say thought, thought?
No, no, no, no, no.
Say it how you normally say it.
Thought. Yeah, thought.
Hey, Rex. No way.
Say sentence.
Sentence. No, no, say it like you normally say it.
Sentence. No sentence.
You say sentence.
That's the way out because you have you have an end.
You have an end.
And then there's a T after it.
I got shit to do.
Fucking shit to do the same sentence.
I'm going to say sentence subtlety.
Rex, say horror.
Or no, not horror.
Say horror horror.
Horror.
But anyway, it was actually
I could show how I will pronounce every
side level sentence.
Aluminium.
Why would I say it like that?
Well, that's that was way off, man.
Aluminum doesn't even start with a Y.
Aluminum, aluminum, aluminum, aluminum.
Think about the aluminum.
You know why you know why people in America say aluminum?
I've heard this.
I have no idea what the source is, so it could be not true.
It was originally a typo that was mass printed on something
and then it was read as aluminum because that's how they spelt it.
And now that's just how the word is there now.
Oh, my God, Jay, are you insinuating that all work
Oh, my God, maybe my spelling was corrected in Americans.
I'm sorry.
Your hands needed a little bit of a freedom touch.
The Americans just took it, took the word and made it correct.
Alonam, say correctly.
If freedom as did Aluminium.
I want to fucking retarded Aluminium.
Yes. Aluminium, aluminium, aluminium, aluminium.
I'll I'll hope you're invited Germany to this conversation.
Oh, Germany has been kicked from chat.
Oh, man.
Stop invading places.
It's rude.
It's mine. It's mine now.
Let's listen to the funny man calls a moron.
Let's actually take a second to think about the film you just watched.
It's a completely unoriginal, bland superhero movie
that takes from taxi driver and can't come.
And it was pretty good. It was a pretty good movie.
Hang on, hang on.
So what if you've not seen, you know, one of those films?
Then you're ignorant.
I mean, I hadn't at the time.
And you're obviously uncultured swine.
If you haven't seen all of those, I haven't seen those movies
when I first watched this movie and I thought this movie was good.
I thought this movie was good.
And then I watched his other ones and then they weren't as good as this one.
So I don't know what to say.
It's just ignorant.
You're ignorant morons.
If you haven't seen the movies, it's stealing from.
Oh, that's OK.
My mama loves me. Oh.
What I say against me.
So let's look at my initial impressions of Joker from the podcast.
I guess that's why this is useful.
It was a lot like King of comedy.
Yeah. I see why you guys.
Oh, it wasn't a lot like me, though.
It wasn't. Wait, but doesn't this explain everything?
So he said it was good on his podcast.
He changed his mind soon after.
And people are holding him his feet to the fire over it.
Because he's he's actually like pulling this up in his video.
Yeah, like he's like with himself.
Like, listen, listen to him present this.
He's very bitter about this.
Initial impressions of Joker from the podcast.
I guess that's why this is useful.
It was a lot like comedy.
Yeah. I see why you guys mentioned it.
You can already tell I'm more hopeful in this episode than I am.
You're wrong. It wasn't a lot like.
Of course you're more hopeful.
Like tax drivers fucking wrong.
Wet sock in this video.
I mean, this video has a lot better like this.
Like Ray showed in this one does.
So it isn't us who went to the movie theater and said it was a good movie
because we saw it once in a movie theater.
It's him. It's him who did that.
He just picture like the six of us.
Well, actually, all of Sardar and Cass and all of us, we're all sitting
watching the movie, we all go, that's pretty good.
And then he stands up an hour later and goes, I am enlightened.
It was bad.
Oh, plain thyself, peasant.
I really just got beaten down by society.
And the first half of this film is really sad.
And dour.
And I like that about it.
All of it. See, I just liked it because it was sad.
But like upon watch, that's what you're criticizing your own argumentation.
Have you seen this video?
I liked it because it was sad, sad.
Dower reminded me.
May I remind you, it's his job to explain and analyze films.
I liked it because it was sad.
Like, OK.
Donates my background so I could tell you that idiot for things are boring.
What's the matter with giving this person money?
And they're like, who's for his shit?
Well, I mean, it's not so bad.
Let's say you enjoyed Joker and you gave him money to explain what's wrong with it.
And he called you a moron for finding a citizen came boring.
That's an interesting experience.
You think I I think Mandalorian is really poorly written.
I think it's bad.
I think it's bad.
You're not. I'm not.
You're not an idiot for liking it.
You're not stupid.
Wait, why do you think I'm an idiot for liking it?
What the fuck?
You're not an idiot for like it's fine.
You know, why aren't you being the crazy straw man version of yourself
that people think you're because people already make those?
I don't have to be that anymore because they make them up themselves.
I was like, there's things that are probably really stupid.
First off, there's probably stuff that's really, really bad
that I like, and I don't want to put myself in the corner
of like being a hypocrite for starters.
Hippo porn.
I'll be done.
A hypocrite, a hypocrite, hypocrite.
I suppose I said, a cryptism, cryptism, cryptite.
I like Batman and Robin.
Sue me. Yes, I like Batman and Robin.
I like I like alien versus predator.
Fuck you. I like sucker punch.
Suck my cock.
What?
Does that have that right?
Rags, you have the right.
You have the right to like sucker punch.
OK, next time someone tells me they like sucker punch
and they're actually in the room, I'm going to be like, you got a sucker stick.
No, I think I cannot.
I cannot simultaneously have the position that I like sucker punch,
but it's also fucking garbage.
And then it's like, I can't be just I can't.
What's the word? I can't be just.
And what's the inconsistent with myself?
Like, I can recognize that's going.
It's Rhianne Johnson, Rhianne Johnson.
I don't know why we're bringing him out of racism.
We're bringing him up because we're talking about bad movies.
No, because we were talking about inconsistency.
Oh, yeah. It's OK to like bad stuff.
No, it's not.
Hey, you're not like stupid fucking because he didn't like the right thing.
I think with like taxi drivers, like I think I could pretty well
substantiate the reasons why I don't like it and why I think it has failings
in areas, you know, but like you can't crucify people because they don't like thing,
especially the approved list of things you can.
You can't. Where have you been, Rags?
That's how it works. Like Citizen Kane, the sacred cow.
It's like Taxi Driver.
And I don't know some other artsy fartsy bullshit movie
that only three people watched in France that one time.
You can't not like the movie.
The cheese movie film.
The cheese, you know, it's from it's French.
What do you mean you didn't like Le fromage?
He does that in the French film about a cook that is getting his way through the life.
I couldn't believe that you do that.
Enjoys the food that is many seems
franchised with society.
Yeah, I'm just a murdering psychopath.
He kills people by choking them to death with a big slice of brie.
He just shoves that shoves the cheese down their throats.
No, no, no, each person, each person has a different kind of cheese
and he's working his way through the kinds of my boss.
My boss is a big slice of stinky, stinky Lundberg cheese.
She cleaned the belt.
But my wife, she is a lovely slice of cheddar.
It's
only the former
federal bureau cheese near you, except it's not coming to any theaters
unless you live in Le Pense des Fieux in France.
The only place in the world that has been in the middle
that's half an hour of a completely black screen where nothing happens.
It is a very symbolic.
I like the indie French film Ratatouille.
It is filmed from inside Le fromage.
That's not as good as Le fromage, man.
Better. You've not experienced cinema until you've seen Le fromage.
The themes in Ratatouille are better.
They talk about how being a critic is correct and you should hate everything.
Le fromage to the.
Well, like I hate everything.
Yes, he had it.
He knew what was up.
He knew what was up.
Well, he was just flexing with his name.
It's just like, I'm a good critic.
Yes, thanks to Ratatouille.
I just liked it because it was sad.
But like watching it multiple times, it's like,
was there anything deeper going on in those parts?
Not really.
It's a surface level scene.
Oh, you're done writing a sympathy trick.
One on one just happened to be beaten up a bunch.
And that just applies.
Well, can you just say this about anything?
God damn it.
I'm forgetting that writing for any character or bad things happen to him.
Well, things happen to.
Just take like, well, just give me a favor.
He's about a guy who's losing his lead.
Le fromage.
Oh, something bad happened to you.
So we're supposed to pity you.
What do I look like, human?
The Incredibles. That's a great film.
Oh, the Incredibles is about a guy who just works out and becomes.
Does start going back to his old life and wants to be superhero.
What kind of movie is that?
Normally, when I see people getting beat up, I'm like, man, that's shit.
That's not good.
Well, yeah, but that's what he's saying.
It's like, ha ha.
That's the trick to you into feeling sympathy because that's the easy way
to do it. I just don't like that logic.
Oh, lirag.
Lirag, you decide to get his medication.
He's his mom.
Oh, is the movie saying you're not supposed to take the medication?
That's the thing, though.
Like, I'm OK with taking this seriously.
It's like a character study.
But then when you do delve more into the well, basically, the dumb shit.
When the dumb shit starts, what dumb shit excitation needed.
Maybe he will.
OK, stops being H from again.
Fuck.
I don't think he's allowed to do that.
Do what they claim that you need citations.
What? No, you didn't get that shit.
You stole it.
Boo to Jay.
No, that's fucking scientists jealous of me because of my cameo.
It was invented by Earl Philosopher back in 1982.
You are a hunk of stinky Lindberger.
Yeah, he said citation needed to his student and the student was so shocked.
They died.
But I am a beautiful white slice.
Well, there's a beautiful white or beautiful white.
Yes, I mean, I mean, I'm sorry.
I mean, I mean, we.
Yeah, that's better.
Taking this seriously, it's like a character study.
But then when you do delve more into the well, basically, the dumb shit.
When the dumb shit starts, then it's like, well, this tonally isn't really working
for me because now I'm thinking about Killer Croc in the penguin.
Whoa, what explain the scene?
What what leads you to that?
What? Yes.
Explain what you know, this killer crocodile man comes out.
How can I not just apply this to the dark night?
Like people treat the dark night as the best superhero of all time.
Surely they do as well.
I'd be like, how can I take it seriously?
We'll kill a croc in the universe.
That's not fair.
Boo.
Is that actually the argument?
Just like killer croc is in this universe.
Well, let's let's listen to it again.
Let's make sure.
Don't want to be taking anybody's tisms out of places.
Well, basically, the dumb shit.
When the dumb shit starts, then it's like, well,
this tonally isn't really working for me because now I'm thinking about
Killer Croc in the penguin and toothpaste and all this.
And I'm just like, this is very strange to me.
That's how you do.
I don't understand.
This is all I'm going to have here.
I don't know, I can't.
Oh, Joe, that's a dumb shit.
Fords, what's up with it?
Killer Crocodile and combat wombat and bullshit like that.
Combat wombat?
Oh, I'm thinking about.
Cat boomerang.
Like, this is a very grounded, realistic, simple movie.
And if you're thinking about killer anthropomorphic crocodiles,
it's like, I don't know what to say.
Well, I would love to know what you think about Killer Crocodile.
It's in the IP.
So there.
No, well, are you saying are you saying that you're applying
meta knowledge to your interpretation of the film?
He couldn't take it seriously because he knows about Killer Croc.
Oh, well, at least this guy doesn't make fucking movie reviews
on YouTube living because I'd be fucking rags.
He does.
Oh, my God, it's that strange because I wouldn't have guessed
that based on the things he said here.
Well, you know, you're moron.
So, ah, well, I'm 14 years old.
I got a lot of time to develop.
Right.
Easy way to tell if you're intelligent or not boring.
Sorry, you cut out.
I don't understand the question.
And I don't want to find out if you're intelligent or not.
Right.
Have you ever found a film boring?
Oh, moron.
Um, the fact that he's not even sure beats his moron.
I don't even know.
Have you when you watched left from us, do you think it was boring?
No, left from us.
It was deep as my soul.
It's a pit of the merry on the stretch.
Oh, it was actually very cold.
No, it's quite warm.
But you know, yes, my love has a lift to me.
Ah, my heart is good.
You just touched it.
That was an unrelated screen.
That makes it worse, actually.
OK, no, the film, the screen was incidental to Rex touching with me.
Yeah, I just wanted to clarify.
They know this.
Like this is very strange to me.
Can I tell you a theory my mom had for this film?
Go ahead.
So there's a little person in this film.
Yes. And and her theory, once she once the movie is over, she called me and said,
I think that guy in the sequel is going to become the penguin.
What? I love this.
Please tell me, please tell me they they don't feel this.
So here's the thing.
I know that Ralph's a liar now.
So who knows if that's true?
But like, is that what you're going to be?
Is that what you're going to base everything off?
OK, OK, I'm saying one thing.
Can I play to a mom?
You know, that's no fucking shit.
That's fine.
But why is that in here?
It's because it comes back.
It's because you want to do this.
The argument leads you to you cannot have character studies in superhero universes
because then you just talk.
You can imagine all the other characters in the universe.
It doesn't hold up.
It's it's not it's not a good argument to make a desperate.
Although there's going to be the Riddler.
Well, I'm just sure Murray would be the vulture.
We know it's a different IP.
The guy selling the hot dogs who has a limp.
That's the Riddler.
That's that's the Riddler.
Oh, my. No, that's the hot.
That's the hot dog.
That's the hot dog.
The hot dog.
Man, that was a fucking point on a hot dog.
It's me. There's no no worse villain in the Batman roster than the hot dog.
The hot dog.
Don't tell me that's first off.
Don't tell me that stupid when you have Killer Croc and the penguin.
Don't forget Steamboat is that one of that is DC, isn't it?
Yep.
Is it called hot dogs?
It's a stupid movie.
Superhero.
Do you think the midget will become the hot dog?
I couldn't find this film that made me think hot dog.
It's over. She called me and said, I think that guy in the sequel is going to become a penguin.
Your mom, this is called the violence, telling you how sad you're supposed to feel.
Oh, the music that's going up the scene.
Oh, you're not sad here.
Don't sad.
This is not a sad scene.
It's not a sad scene.
This joke of being happy.
You have a 10 year or two.
Let's go.
Also, what is the criticism?
The music is telling me to feel a certain emotion.
It's like, what else is music meant to do in a film?
Is this supposed to accentuate the tone slash experience of the music is supposed to be like random songs?
And you're like, you had to be suicide squad where they just play the radio in the background.
The music is so you don't get bored.
Oh, shit. I saw it.
Well, like if you don't actually enjoy the film and the pictures and close your eyes and enjoy the soothing tunes of our soundtracks.
Also, holy shit.
Like you can't go for the soundtrack of Joker like that shit was great.
So good. Yeah.
So sad and melancholy.
It was done by Hilda Guten Dater.
I don't know if appropriate.
Guten Tag lays off the idea of the instability of his mind with the cords that resonate with the pogs.
The poor. No, I didn't support cords.
No, it would have been perfect.
The Joker did his dancing thing to Bohemian Rhapsody.
They have harmonic dissonance.
Oh, such a lame criticism.
You've got to develop it. Let's see if he does on video.
Oh, I'll have to make sure everybody film critic.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Also, we've got to be really careful because music is like even three seconds of detection and we're done.
So this maybe this is what got him hit with copyright, actually.
Then there's a cutaway to him in the asylum and he hits his head against the door.
It's his head against the door.
Oh. That was corny.
This is it. Well, what?
Well, what? I'm I'm sorry.
What? He never backs anything up.
It's just the dead fucking job.
Let's just give him the benefit of what does corny get to find us?
Try to. What the fuck?
What is what? Okay.
Jump. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
No, I'm sorry.
I was being assassinated and my teammate was right there.
Why are you playing video games?
Are you racist?
Or are you more? What are you doing?
I'm googling.
So the definition of corny got trite banal or morkishly sentimental.
How come it's not pronounced banal?
Mainel, banal.
I don't know which of these he's referring to,
and I don't know how he defines each of them.
Like, give me a give me a fucking rope.
I need to help, Ralph.
Help me. Don't hang yourself.
Not over there.
No, I meant like a rope to help me climb out of something.
Party rope.
Man, I was so fucking ready.
This is a fucking genre.
Where is super?
I was so fucking ready for that to be left from our fan art.
And then someone said hot dog.
I was like, oh, that's where it's going.
I am the rag, the hot dog there.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Made that point.
And Noctis says Le Bulge.
Oh, that is that is inappropriate for this child friendly.
Christian stream stream.
We're 14 year olds.
You have to be always Christian.
Why can't we be like a woman?
Buddhist stream.
We are the progressive Muslim stream.
Protestant stream.
Ah, that's still Christian.
Can we be unitologists?
Peace be upon you.
What's the unitologist?
Is that the study of?
Space study of unitologists are the scientists from space.
That was corny.
This is a dead fucking genre.
The superhero genre.
You're doing not a fucking superhero in it.
Well, yeah, name a superhero.
What do you mean dead genre?
There's so many different kinds of superhero, but especially
if he fucking classifies this as superhero.
Yeah, fucking anything will be super film.
I just we did this because YMS was on.
And we were like, we get this criticism.
I'm just like, you know, what are the how do you see Guardians
of the Galaxy is the same as Thor Ragnarok is the same as Iron Man
one as the same as Homecoming as this?
And you just go on and on.
Logan, obviously are in the same genre.
Special element.
Fucking King of Comedy and Taxi Driver are the same.
It's a character who's like.
How can you argue that it's a dead genre, though?
It's going so strong at the moment.
Maybe she means dead creatively.
I don't know.
Well, that's giving some charity, I guess.
I have to, because this video is rambling nonsense.
I have to make something out of it.
He's being a silly sausage.
Well, we could actually have a discussion if I steal about him.
Oh, God. This argument sucks.
OK, within your best.
Most of the valuable superhero IP is owned by Disney,
and they're not going to do anything.
What do you mean valuable superhero IP?
Like, well, that's clearly not the fucking case now, is it?
Well, no, that's just right.
So you got well, so you got a man made a shit ton of money.
Suicide Squad made a lot of money.
Joker made a lot of money.
Batman versus super person may have money.
Super money, if by valuable,
if by valuable, he's referring solely to how much money they can potentially make.
And DC still put a dent into what Marvel can make.
Like DC are like, hey, we're still here.
You haven't beaten us.
Secondly, if he means valuable just by like they've owned all the people
who are going to make money, it's just like, damn way to fucking just be like,
I'll give up if you're not DC or Marvel.
Well, in this case, give up if you're not Marvel.
Yeah, if you ain't Disney, then just fucking kill yourself.
Interesting with it.
They put it through the same process they do with any everything else.
The Pixar movies, the animated.
How the fuck are you relating this to Joker?
Like I have no idea.
They do our movies.
They put it through the same process.
What do you mean that moose?
Is that the words that you just made with your mouth?
Oh, no, wait. So he's not comparing this to Joker.
He would be comparing it to everything Disney does in general.
So how do you compare this to something like Endgame?
It has characters in it.
That's not good enough.
Wait, is your address to the live action movies like The Lad?
Oh, Jim, what is this point right now?
What is this point?
The new Star Wars movies.
It's all straight out of the printer.
Oh, my God. Zuri bless you like his biggest fan.
It's all straight out of the printer, and that's Warner Brothers competition.
And. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Go, damn it.
Jake, keep your fucking video game commentary to yourself.
You absolute disgusting creature.
You're fucking camping pieces.
I can't. I'm too important.
So this isn't really like some masterful art film.
It's a studio piece of crap.
So that's that's that's that's that's an ad hominem.
All right. Ad hominem argument about a film.
So that was a studio that was bad.
He's completed the argument.
So he set up that all of the this is how the argument went.
You have valuable IPs in relation to comics being made into movies.
That's Disney.
Disney do with them what they do with everything,
like their animated movies and their remakes, whatever,
meaning that they're all printed, they're all like soulless copy printed out.
That's what they all the comic book movies are.
That is Warner Brothers competition.
Therefore, Warner Brothers have to do that to be able to compete.
Therefore, Joker is creatively bankrupt.
That's an ad hominem argument.
It's a fucking ridiculous argument.
You could even say that it's almost like the opposite,
where you have to be creative.
If someone says, all right, we need to make a movie about this topic
or this universe or something, we got to make it good.
So that's where the creativity comes in.
How do I work within these certain constraints
to make something that's really good?
No, sorry.
I don't remember you being this noisy when I played Halo with you.
Yeah, neither.
That's because I'm playing headhunter.
It's really intense.
I lost a lot of heads before I died.
You're in a tent after I died when I died.
And then that's the only noise I made.
It was entirely restrained.
You know, not to play games on your job.
You know that. Yes, I am.
But the point was, I don't like this argument.
OK, I agree.
It was competition.
So this isn't really like some masterful art film.
It's a studio piece of crap disguised as a thoughtful character study
like a like a transformer, Oscar Bay, like a transformer.
Are you are you mad?
Now she's got an actual artistic film disguised as a studio piece of crap.
Well, yeah, hang on a second.
Oscar bait in disguise.
Oscar Oscar bait in disguise.
Oscar bait more than skies.
More than so.
But the whole point of being bait is that you're not in disguise.
You want to catch the Oscar, but you're not.
You look like you're trying to catch the Oscar, but you really want to make
a good film. OK, I think I get where he's going.
Or was his point that they're just gunning for the Oscar,
but they're trying to make it look like they're not gutting for the Oscar.
They just like we want to get a bunch of Oscars.
But not really.
We actually made a shit movie.
How we fooled them.
Well, I.
Fucking hell's self.
Jesus Christ, just fucking leave.
If you're going to do that, Jesus Christ.
Hey, this is important.
We're talking about Joker.
I'm going to do my best not to do that again.
So like the the criticism that it's like
Creative Bank of photocopied Oscar bait film.
I just be like, hmm, OK, what's your evidence?
Like, oh, shit, we've gone through that part.
I didn't realize.
Oh, God, it was so bad.
Study is like a like a transformer.
Oscar bait in disguise.
Joker is not a good movie.
Unsubscribed lover is not a good movie.
Mike Stilcloss. Yeah, fuck you, Bagot.
Fucking mouth.
What's your fucking mouth?
It's true.
You know, I said something that was wrong on the Internet.
People are getting you're edgy.
I probably made all those people on 4chan upset.
The movie makers should be at the bottom of every list.
So this is the part where you just complain to people.
Give them anyone.
Anyone notice anything?
I don't know.
Post-date, post-date, post-date.
So the day 25th of June 2017.
By a second.
Wait, that was like three years ago.
What year did Joker come up?
Ralph, you're a piece of shit.
I guess.
Why did you why did you dig this up?
Did you say this when this when this first happened,
those many years ago, it's kept this in your catalog.
And you just like screenshotted it.
Like, if I ever need to show a picture of someone saying something
about about me on the Internet, I can always pull up this one screenshot.
17, if you like, see this one fucking anonymous guy on the 4chan read it.
He said that I always should be at the bottom of every list.
Search 4chan for his own name and then produced.
Wait.
There's one from attacking attacking the audience and fans and things,
all those people just throwing jabs at them throughout the review.
I was just directly doing it.
I had like a random comment from an ad on three year ago, 4chan thread.
Like, what the fuck?
This is weird.
Proves it.
How did he get here?
Was this like set up to be that it's about Joker?
So we get it.
You're edgy.
Is he writing those people on 4chan upset?
Did Ralph write this himself?
He write his own disparaging comment so he could screenshot it.
He's playing a long game.
He's been waiting on that for a long time.
Wait, I want to I want to pause this one commenter on 4chan.
He was so smart.
He knew that my Joker take would be so sick and preemptively sick.
So as far as really insightful comments are very insightful.
You know, these comments say why this is pretty good, but take shit too serious.
No, I like how seriously take stuff.
I like listening stuff, watching the double toasted and Brad Jones
midnight screenings.
OK, from the few Ralph videos, I said, oh, no, it skipped.
Go back boom.
The few Ralph videos I've seen, he's probably one of the worst.
He pretty much he's pretty much movies brought to life.
I don't know what that means.
I don't know what that means either.
Also, this is I don't want some movies to be brought to life like Jurassic Park
because there'd be dinosaurs everywhere.
Tuckman greater than John's greater than RLM. Really?
Why would you call him Cuckman as he's better than those two?
Maybe he's talking about Stuckman.
That's what I mean.
That's that's what I mean.
OK. The new figure should be at the bottom of every list.
Literally no substance.
I mean, it's not like this video had substance so far.
You have to explain to me why it doesn't.
You have to give an example of a part of the movie where people say, wow,
this is really deep, this is really meaningful.
And then you have to explain, no, this is why that is bad.
God damn it. I don't want your amateur sex videos like my own.
Wait, you make your own.
No, I could. I don't.
But like if I wanted amateur sex videos, I'd go to the six trillion
that are already on the Internet.
Are you sure that number is correct?
No, it's not correct. I'm definitely low balling it.
Yeah, compared to this one, that doesn't mean it's a great film.
It doesn't stand on its own.
What do you mean by that?
What do you mean? It does stand on its own.
What is it?
I mean that it doesn't have.
I thought we proved that when is he saying
that it wouldn't have made a million without being called Joker?
I'd be like, that doesn't mean it doesn't stand on its own as a story.
Yeah. How much money does it have to make in dollars to stand on its own?
Thirteen. Oh, my God, it's dead on its own a lot.
Artistic intent, in my opinion,
the film didn't feel like it was crafted with a clear artistic intent.
It felt like Phoenix saved a subpar script and production.
The studio really wanted him and were willing to budge on his demands.
Todd Phillips didn't bring much to the story.
Wow. Shock, composition, lighting and scene direction were all standard.
Standard. OK.
Thanks, Internet man.
You know, this reminds me of when Jay from Red Lion Media
said that Todd Phillips isn't a real filmmaker.
Oh, God, what a fucking retarded thing to say.
Like Jay gets so far up his own asshole sometimes.
I can't believe I did that.
Well, I was just going to say, like, it's the same energy.
Like, Ralph, you got to you got to climb.
You got to claw your way back out of your asshole.
You're stuck in there. Yeah.
You got to come frolic in the sunshine with the rest of it.
He's trying to, but he's just stuck in his ass.
He's in the field like, help, help. I can't like things.
Wait, Rags, what was the game you were talking about earlier?
Like, butt fucker or something?
Ath Hunter? That's the one.
Close enough, I suppose.
There's butt fucker and Ash Hunter.
Yeah, I found it and I played it and I tried it
and I couldn't figure out what to do.
You should be homosexuals in the woods.
That's where they spawn.
That's where they breed with mushrooms.
The homosexual consumes the mushroom
and gives birth to upwards of 17 new homosexuals on from spores.
We must eradicate the homosexual problem.
Oh, no.
This gave this crew a lot of leeway to make this film, especially what?
And I think that's why this film turned out as good as it did.
Of course, I don't know what. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
It's as good as it did. I thought you hate the movie.
I guess when he says as good as it did, he's referring to like,
I guess that's why it's a five out of ten and not a zero or something like that.
I don't know.
Fucking say the things you mean and don't make it so cryptic.
Yeah, you got to you got to interpret because, yeah, the script has got to be subtle.
Scrip these like you.
I don't know what's from the script, what's improvised scene by scene.
But I have a feeling all of the worst stuff in this film
is the stuff that came from the script and all of the moments
that were interesting and unique mainly came from Phoenix himself.
You can't just say that. Wow. Just wow.
So I didn't like that probably they deserve no credit.
Why is he going to elaborate?
Or is this literally him just being like, what do you think?
The previous established information about Ralph, the movie maker.
You just said before this that he can't know for sure, but this is his assumption.
Oh, if he said he doesn't really know, that makes it OK. Yeah.
Ralph, I don't think that you wrote any of your videos.
I think you've got a ghost writer that does all of it.
That's giving him too much credit.
Yeah, all the good parts are just well.
Yeah. All the shitty parts are you.
Anything that was ever done good on your channel.
Rags of Ralph, the movie maker.
You had a ghost creator there.
You had a ghost creator that did all of it, ghost YouTuber.
According to him, there were some really radical changes
made to the film from script to set.
That whole fridge scene was improvised.
How much of OK, improvising that I'm sorry.
I'm imagining just improvising that was I was like, that's not the script.
Someone's like, what are you doing?
So it's filming filming camera roll.
That's just what he does.
Normally, he said I had it on set.
This is like his trailer.
He doesn't have a trailer.
He just lives in the fridge.
Oh, apparently he gave this a four out of 10, by the way.
I know. What?
Well, well, that's your opinion.
You you utter.
That is a fact.
You can't say that word unless you're a gamer.
Yes, I am, because I am one.
No, you're not. I disapprove.
Well, you are white.
So kind of cancels out a black person who say the N word.
Then I can say the F word.
And I can say retard.
That's correct.
I like it. Yes.
This is purposeful.
Because when I do see taxi driver and king of comedy,
every scene feels purposeful.
And you said this already.
It's fucking lie.
So you have a really corny bad scene.
The whole Batman connection.
What the fuck was that?
What happened?
That was not all right.
I'm staring at the timer and I'm going to watch it.
And if it skips over in seconds, I will tell the audience
because that I don't think was me.
Purposeful.
And in this film, you have a really corny bad scene.
The whole Batman can I fuck up?
That was the video.
Fuck up round two.
Fuck up.
Well,
oops, of the video.
This kind of film was totally pointless.
If we're going to go with the whole.
Yeah, sorry.
Now, now I'll actually listen to his points.
I was distracted by his shitty audio.
And in this film, you have a really corny bad scene.
The whole Batman connection in this film was totally pointless.
There is no Batman connection.
There's no Batman in this film.
Not at all.
No Batman whatsoever.
He's not even mentioned.
Why would he be?
He wouldn't make any sense like a kid.
It just zooms into the kid.
He's go, I'll be Batman.
Listen, son, as as Thomas Wayne later dying,
blood pooling around him, he reached out to his son.
He said, son, I hope you dress up as a bat one day.
You know, they should have had is when when Joe came up to him,
he was playing with a little toy bat.
He was like, I'd like to be a bat one day.
The joke is like, oh, that's so cute.
But look, I can't remember.
Yes, like I would like to criticize you for living.
So I got a little room to.
If we're going to go with the whole theory that everything after the fridge
is a dream, then why the hell would Joker imagine that Bruce Wayne's parents
would be killed?
I don't care about your stupid dream argument.
Yeah. Why would we think that that's the thing that could happen
if the scenes in the film are watched?
Yeah. Also, someone asked if this would be the that
that would have been a result of him having to trim the music.
This was this was copied before he trimmed the video.
So as far as I'm aware, there is no trim in this one.
And that we've just been careful with copyright.
It's such a specific thing to imagine.
Like, for example, now I'm going to pause.
What do you mean, a specific thing to imagine?
What why would Joker it like, let's just go with it for a second
that someone said this was something he imagined.
And now Ralph is saying that he couldn't have imagined this.
That's the stupid.
It's like couldn't have imagined that
the Wayne child that could have is living the life
that Joker feels that he could have had if that, you know, Thomas Wayne
was actually his dad and that all of that down to his level.
Yeah, that's kind of why I think he finds it funny.
He's like, why couldn't he imagine this?
I don't understand.
And that also happens to tie in with Batman.
You've seen Batman.
No one. Batman does not even fuck up.
I'm just trying to make him smile.
But it's not funny, is it?
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
No, he is Alfred.
Do you mean he's supposed to be Alfred?
This guy is supposed to be Alfred.
Maybe it's Alfred's brother.
Fucking idiot.
Try to be Alfred.
What is what is this criticism?
Is Halloween trick-or-treating as Alfred?
Like, genuinely, how does he what is he delivering with this?
Fucking Alfred, what is this?
Trying to make him smile.
But it's not funny, is it?
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
You shouldn't be speaking to his.
That's it.
Like, I actually thought we'd cut him off.
Fucking hell.
So is this was the first 25 minutes of the film?
No, no, no, that's it.
That's it.
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
Is this character called Alfred?
Is he supposed to be Alfred?
Moving on.
Is he supposed to be Alfred?
Is he supposed to be Alfred?
All right, moving on.
Is this supposed to be an ambulance?
What is this?
What are you trying to make here?
Who else is he supposed to be?
He's supposed to be.
He doesn't live like a bakukai.
Are there crazy guys?
There's no crazy guy who wanted to take advantage of Bruce Wayne.
Joker just kind of stepped on his game.
He just said Bruce grows up to be Alfred.
He's like, man, being rich gets you killed.
I'm just going to be a fucking butler.
I'm just trying to make him smile.
But it's not funny, is it?
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
You shouldn't be speaking to his son.
For the first 25 minutes of this film,
I kind of want that it's supposed to be Gotham.
I kind of want the cut now.
You wait, what?
I just want to use that little cut area.
This guy's supposed to be Alfred.
That might be the most bizarre part of this whole video.
It's just supposed to be Alfred.
I don't get it. What's going on?
It's got Alfred.
Am I supposed to be Murray?
I'm good.
Are you supposed to be Joker?
Is this supposed to be Gotham?
Is he supposed to be a couch?
Is Joakim Phoenix a Joker?
Oh, I should.
I haven't been good delving anywhere near enough in this one.
I feel bad.
Yeah, this guy's supposed to be Alf.
I'll never know.
We'll never know that guy's else.
I feel like that might become a meme.
Is this supposed to be Alfred?
I want that clip.
That guy's supposed to be Alfred?
Is this Alfred?
Somebody's going to make that video
through a series of clips of just not Alfred.
This guy's supposed to be Alfred.
Oh, is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
I was like, yes.
That's why his name is Alfred.
And he's the butler for the Wayne family.
They're Alfred now.
They're Alfred now.
I don't even like get it.
Is he supposed to be Alfred?
Oh, what a good, funneling moment in this movie.
General of the Continental Army,
first president of the U.S.
Is this supposed to be George?
Is this supposed to be Batman?
I don't even understand.
You shouldn't be speaking to his son.
For the first 25 minutes of this film,
you don't even know it's supposed to be Gotham.
Oh, my God.
What?
Why do you need to know it's Gotham?
Five minutes.
They must be terrible.
Imagine learning something late in the film
that you didn't know.
Wait, wait, wait.
What did he say?
I will. I will.
I will play it again.
You don't even know.
I'll play that.
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
You shouldn't be speaking to his son.
For the first 25 minutes of this film,
you don't even know it's supposed to be Gotham.
It's just a city.
And I will be.
Funny thing to say for him,
because he complains constantly about
old standard universe so bad.
Oh, we don't know it's Gotham.
The first 25 is Alfred.
You can't you can't bitch that something is so obvious
and then bitch that all we don't know is Gotham
in the first 25 minutes.
Gotham is just a joker.
This is supposed to be Gotham.
It's a good building.
And he's like, is this supposed to be Alfred?
Jay Long was it is supposed to be Alfred.
Every step is Alfred.
I walk up and down out for it.
No, this is what I walk up all for it.
It wasn't about the same set of characters again.
It wasn't like, oh, Harley Quinn is going to show up now
and then they're going to fight Killer Croc
just because I have negative things to say about the film.
I'm sorry, what just happened?
I need to. I don't even know what happened.
I need to repeat that because I would go all the way back
to the great.
I mean, I hate the film.
Oh, wait, shit.
Shut up. Shit.
Go back to the quo. I need it.
Oh, I went really far back. Whoops.
It's too far, but it's not funny, is it?
Is this guy supposed to be Alfred?
You should be speaking to his son.
For the first 25 minutes of this film,
you don't even know it's supposed to be Gotham.
It's just a city and I like that aspect of it.
It wasn't about the same set of characters again.
It wasn't like, oh, Harley Quinn is going to show up now.
Oh, and then they're going to fight Killer Croc.
Just because I have.
So good.
You said that was a good thing.
OK, yeah.
All right. Yeah, fine.
OK, it's weird to just throw that in.
Like, I don't know if it's Gotham in the first 25 minutes.
That's great.
And it's quite a strange thing to put in this video.
Talking about is this person, Alfred.
Negative things to say about the film does not mean I hate the film.
OK, does not mean I think it's a worthless.
I just don't think it's perfect.
I don't think it does.
OK, OK, let's be honest.
You go way further than saying it's not perfect.
Yeah, you're talking about how shallow and empty it is
and how it's made for 14 year olds.
OK, yeah, just be like, oh, I just feel like this could be a circus.
Not like that.
Honestly, that to me kind of feels a bit like backpedaling
because he's he's late in the script now.
He's like, hey, look, I'm just saying it's not perfect.
All right. It's like, you know, after everything you just said,
instead of going, if you think that I'm wrong, then you're a bad.
You're a 14 year old, you moron.
Sounds like a real late IMO card, to be honest.
Yeah, like you tried this a little earlier, probably.
Deserves the Golden Lion.
I don't think it's a masterpiece.
Oh, wow, he actually fucking shows that clip.
How do you show this to my team?
I want to change my vote to lie.
I want to change my vote to lie.
OK, lie in this direction.
He's being willfully, willfully dishonest to lie.
Actually put the clip in.
How do you fucking do this?
It's all his opinion, right? Fuck.
Oh, no, he's showing me the slap for it.
Oh, his dog, his dog is giving him the eyes like, man,
you better not come near my ass.
This is a parody.
This is a parody.
This has been a complete lie.
I just like the idea that the dog is like, this kid isn't funny.
I'm sorry.
It's like a mate's dog.
Is that tissues under his couch?
What the fuck? The cotton.
Why is there loads of cotton under his couch?
I don't want to know.
Could be, you know, he secretes his cotton regularly.
That's what he secretes.
Do you not?
Not on Thursdays.
And not on the floor because you're not a dirty animal.
No, I don't.
You're a savage.
That's not like I don't I'm not saying the movie is terrible.
I don't hate the movie.
And then this shows up like.
OK, yeah, I believe you.
Well, wouldn't surely this counts for saying it's boring?
Yeah.
So does that mean he's a moron?
I guess that means he's a moron.
Let go, let that do.
What sounds do you make with someone straggling you?
I go.
That's the noise of me.
I go, please stop, sir.
I do not appreciate losing access to my windpipe.
I was what depends what the what's the safe word in the situation?
Boonger.
Then I don't say that.
Oh, all right. Yeah.
God, this one is boring, isn't it?
You've said it twice.
So now I am wondering if this is a parody.
It's like I got a bit it.
Man, let let the dog go.
The dog does not want to be hugged.
Right. All right.
It's so boring.
Oh, no, it's based on my favorite comic book character.
You can't follow me.
You can't follow me.
You can't follow me.
That dog is uncomfortable.
So look how small my pee pee is.
Yes, yes, he did.
All right. OK.
Wait, I got on the comment section of my show.
You have the gall to criticize a movie like Joker.
Fuck you.
I think he cut some of that out.
Just a little bit.
Let's look at the full comment, I guess.
That's quite a good show in the comment section of my show.
You have all the criticism of like Joker after giving it praise previously.
I'm going to go back on your own portfolio with cheaply made schlock like this.
I think you should refocus your direction style, acting cinematography.
Resizing your series sucks.
Is this all like this?
Clearly, he's like this is a fabricated comment, right?
I don't know.
I can't believe this comment exists.
OK, yes.
You know, you're right, actually.
Wait, how could you because this this would be posted?
No, it can't be a comment on the video that it's been posted in. Yeah.
What would this be posted on if it's about because he was used,
he was friendly to Joker in the podcast one, right?
Unless this is on the podcast one, I don't know.
The gall to criticize a movie like Joker.
Fuck you. The gross overreaction to this film is hysterical.
I know. Look at your video.
It's kind of crazy.
At least he was as honest in covering that comment as he is
as he was honest covering the Joker.
Yeah, all consistent.
Yet it's an amalgamation of things you liked from when you were six years old.
You like the Joker cartoons.
You like the Joker comic book.
But really, it's just an OK movie.
As far as the cinematography is concerned, I guess it's a shot.
Well, but it's already the structure is garbage.
Also, you already liked it because you like stuff from when he was six.
Like, damn, that age just keeps getting lower, doesn't it?
Yeah, I didn't I didn't want to watch a Joker when it first came out.
But then I learned that it was doing something all on its own.
And then I wanted to watch it.
Yeah, I checked it out because I like the trailer a lot.
I was like, this is cool.
It looked like it was its own thing.
That's just because it was the Joker.
It's not precise.
There were better looking movies this year.
Joke. OK.
There are better looking movies this year.
OK, guys. Moving on.
So if it's not the best, it's just not worth celebrating.
No, it's garbage.
It's and pocket.
I don't even know what to say.
There's an exceptional movie.
OK, what's the exceptional part?
This is exceptional.
I'm sorry. What just happened?
Is that supposed to be Alfred?
I'll just show clips out of context.
Is it? Oh,
we're having a fucking seizure.
Oh. What do you think you're achieving with that montage?
What? What? What's not even Joaquin Phoenix's best performance?
We're still talking.
Why are you saying this?
I don't know why. Why are we back to it?
It has to be the best in order to celebrate what's.
That's my noise. Oh, man, about Batman.
We've made Batman movies for fucking 60 years.
Can we talk about a film that's original, please?
You had you could talk about whatever you want.
We've been talking about the Joker for so long
because people keep them reinvented.
There's different jokers.
OK, there's different jokers, different iterations and from Batman
and identities to the Joker.
That's why people that's why he survived for so long.
I'm starting to actually be like, is this a joke?
There's so much tism in this.
Do their joke is just really, really bitter with himself
because he liked the movie and now he for some reason
he hates the movie for strange reasons.
Is this video supposed to be Alfred?
That's the answer.
The beginning of this movie is boring as hell.
Something bad happens to Joker.
I thought we weren't allowed to say stuff is boring.
I don't understand the rules.
I think he said that.
I think he said, like, good films.
You're not allowed to say boring, but this is fine because it's not.
No, because he said the apply this to any film that people say is boring.
But I think the implication of that was good films that people say.
Yeah, well, it's not what he said, is it, Jay?
I think it was implicit in the subtext.
I think that you're implicit in the subtext of lies.
Oh, yeah, Alfred. Well, can we verify it?
Rags, you lie, by the way.
Rags.
Brunk doggo down, man down, man down.
They play some sad violin music, rinse and repeat.
It gets a little better when Joker's making faces with this kid.
But then Joker starts having a laughing fit and has a card with his condition.
What's wrong with that? Yeah.
OK, that part was OK.
But then they have to play the sad violin music to remind you
that this is a sad scene instead of just fitting music with a scene,
fitting the emotionally just like violins.
Violins bad. I don't know.
Violins are bad.
I'm going to do. I'm going to play him the world's smallest violin.
No, he doesn't like them. Stop.
That's my way of punishing him and him.
Those violins are a mistake.
Give me a break.
I like to. Do you actually think those violins are a mistake?
No, can't have a your main
the main character of your movie could never have their own theme.
It can't have a musical cue when they come on stage.
It's that's ridiculous. No good movie does that, apparently.
Holy shit, we nearly throw it.
Yeah, we're actually this has been quite a long stream.
There's no way it's not even half over, but hey, no, no.
Wait, what do you mean?
It's just like a business video one of two.
No, no, it's super jazz.
Oh, fuck. Right. Yeah, that hat exists.
Yeah, break with.
I like De Niro and I get what people like about this character.
It's a cartoonish TV host, but there's nothing more to it.
He just serves to be a father figure metaphor.
He's not cartoonish at all.
He's like considering his screen time.
He's quite well fleshed out as a person.
Yeah, what he what he he's more complex than being a cartoon.
He's not like, I'm going to humiliate you, you fucking idiot.
That's not we've already we've already come.
Yeah, we actually yeah, we did.
He's when he said there was only one dimensional character.
Joker's story.
And that's it.
He doesn't actually have a character.
See, by the way, folks, so you made a 24 minute video.
My video on Joker, if I ever make it, it's probably going to be like two hours.
And so it's like, so Ralph is more concise than you.
And I'd be like, no, actually, there's a good chance
he repeated his points more than I will in that two hours.
And this will happen when you don't have structure.
He's talked about this.
He's talking about it again.
He's repeated himself a whole bunch of times in this video.
Wow.
It takes opportunity to say his work is good.
Wow.
I think anybody who doesn't repeat themselves is someone
who doesn't repeat themselves.
Say that again.
I can't.
It's against the law.
Say that again.
It's illegal.
Or wants desires.
Does he have a family like, oh, it's a parody.
It's like record him for a dream.
So everybody's heard about the super rats that are in guy's super rats.
You know, fellas.
It's all he did a silly impression of his voice.
What are we supposed to do with that?
It's been the bulk of his critique.
There's doing silly impressions of what people say.
Well, like when you play the music and he was going, blah, blah, blah.
I was like, Oh, you're nailing it.
That's been the bulk of his critique.
Just make this film has made me angry, but it's irrational.
So I'm just going to have to make an irrationally active video.
Makes complete sense.
Chokes that are ironically bad instead of actually writing jokes
that would be funny, but in all seriousness, you know what I mean?
Folks, these super rats, you ready for this is still funnier than Jimmy Kimmel.
Why did we cut to a shot behind him that's rotating around him?
The James Wan directors.
Well, what's what's happening on the screen right now?
Because I'm not looking.
Is it is it is it was a shot behind DeNiro sounds the shot behind DeNiro
and it cycles around him as he's talking.
Apparently, that's bad.
That is bad.
It's terrible.
Cut to a shot behind him that's rotating around him.
The James Wan directors.
I'm sorry, I think it's boring.
I mean, even Rocky doesn't seem interested.
Is he described as boring three times after saying the boring thing?
It's interesting.
Three, four times already.
Yeah, I disagree with you.
I think boring.
I think he meant something else by that.
I think we are being an autism by taking it literally.
I think you're being way too kind to not hold him accountable
for the statements he makes.
But I think the subtext was quite implicit.
And we've already had this discussion.
You're wrong.
You're wrong.
You're wrong.
I've said it twice, which means I've repeated myself and I lose.
This movie is bad.
But let's say a far less talented actor played this role because it's bad.
It doesn't mean it's bad.
Let up when Jared Leto heard that Warner Brothers was green lighting
a Joker film starring Joaquin Phoenix and not him.
He was reportedly upset by it.
But here's the thing.
Jared Leto, you're acting.
What are you?
What do you live?
Oh, God, that film, you said or some.
But it's a combination of his actions to make it so bad.
But like, oh, man, that's what a bad film are supposed to be Alfred.
It looks kind of like.
And there was apparently like enough footage to give this guy his own movie.
And they edited it down to five minutes and all that was left.
I mean, I wonder if he's going to say that
because he's zooming in on the damage to tattoo.
It was this buffoon with tattoos on his forehead.
You know, some of the criticism is is so
over the top vitriolic.
But I bet if Jared Leto had a full film to flesh out this character,
it would have been better. Maybe, maybe. Sure.
Actually, I completely take that back.
The truth is no one.
I don't think anyone it would be better in terms of the stadium, right?
At least we have one thing about it from Ralph.
I think more of it is what I think more of that is just bad.
It depends what criteria we're working with here
in terms of like bringing a more cohesive understanding of this character.
Like, I don't know.
Yeah, but I think to have more cohesive understanding of that character would be
worst. Yeah, I think doesn't doesn't Ralph like this Joker better
because he is about as subtle as the king of comedy.
He has word damage right on his forehead.
Oh, well, that is subtle.
It's subtle. It's the king of the king of comedy level of subtlety.
So it's good, right?
Would be able to stand this version of Joker for more than five minutes.
And then there's it wants to be.
Oh, it's not.
Muddled themes and execution, muddled themes.
I thought he said that the theme was too obvious and singular.
Society bad, right?
Truth is no one would be able to stand this version of Joker
for more than five minutes.
So there you go.
Muddled themes and execution led to a confused third act.
It's just you haven't proven that.
I don't know. Maybe he will.
The moment where Arthur commits a murder on television was pretty good.
Well, he said he hated that because he was too obvious.
Yeah, maybe, maybe, no, OK, OK.
Everything, everything after that didn't make clear
if I was if I was supposed to be against or rooting for Arthur.
Maybe he wants the film to tell him how to feel.
Does he? Yes, there wasn't enough music in those sections.
You can also write off the entire finale as a dream sequence
in Arthur's head, which deflates the conclusion entirely.
He really is really.
He really wants that to be true.
I feel like a dream sequence thing is running with that hardcore.
It's so weird it up.
This talented crew is able to bring some life into it.
But when you remove them and you look at the script and the story
and the heart of what this movie is trying to say.
Yeah, it is good. He's right.
I'm assuming he's about to say it's good, right? Yeah.
Yeah, he's about to say it's good. That's why we agree with him. Cool.
I think it's a lot of ideas kind of meshed together
and something is made of it.
And it's definitely entertaining.
But it's ultimately a combination of a bunch of other different movies.
But it doesn't really.
My God, I don't even want to think about writing out that sentence.
He just made such a gobble.
Well, I don't care if he scripted or not.
We don't speak that way when we're not scripted.
We don't go.
It's a movie about several things that kind of come to it's like a movie
that is good. It's just lots of people involved.
I can see myself saying that.
Well, OK, speak to yourself then.
I did. That's what I said.
I said I agreed. I said, OK, speak to something.
Civil war.
This is how it's nothing civil about it.
Oh, I see what you did. Oh, yeah. Nailed it.
Come together and it doesn't really have a vision that that.
Oh, my God. What is it?
The hell just happened? What just happened?
What just happened?
It's like a combination of a bunch of the cock.
You know, keep keep keep my eye on the timer.
See if we're skipping or she's skipping different movies.
But it doesn't really come together and it doesn't really have a vision that that cock.
Oh, my God.
It doesn't have a vision that cock.
And what does it say?
Very valid point there.
It doesn't have a vision that cock.
It doesn't have a vision that cock.
Like, maybe you want to fix that. I don't know.
It's a parody.
It's not a good parody either.
Like, do you think a parody or lie?
And you take your choice, I suppose.
It's fucking I'm sorry.
I want to have an anomaly of a video.
Doesn't have a vision that cock.
Maybe he's testing out like this new way.
I like that he puts all of his
videos into and it uses like.
I can't believe this is made by the idea.
Yeah, that's supposed to be Alfred.
I think so.
