How could you say that to your own mother?
Damn.
Um, so what are we talking about, Cherokee?
I'm drinking tea.
Is it like a Satan version of Cherokee, then, if it's church jerky?
So I thought church jerky was like priest dick.
No, this is going too far.
Like that's like that's like the molestation victim.
Y'all get some jerky.
People like try to keep it under the radar.
Local news today.
The word jerky has been rising up as a way for them to dog whistle certain ideas.
Hashtag jerky.
That's just a dog whistle for for church rape.
What would be the anti, like what would be the Satan version?
The Satan version?
Oh, Satan's vegan.
So he wouldn't have any jerky.
It would be like shitty jerky.
It'd be like it'd be like salad jerky or something.
Some abomination that he's pre-painted brown.
I don't know.
Turkey.
It'd be like like tofu jerky.
Oh, no, turkey.
I think that's a thing that exists already.
But hey, turkey jerky.
Yeah.
Why so long for a new efap?
Just let everybody pour in first.
Ladles and jelly spoons in chat.
I'm not poor.
I didn't say you were poor.
I said you were poor.
Yeah, porn.
I'm referring to your pores on your skin.
You have those, right?
No.
No?
I can't read.
Not read.
We've been over this.
Why does that have to do with pores?
Well, because.
I was referring to your eyes.
Your eyes are just your eyes are just weird pores.
Oh, well, then I'm referring to those.
Yeah.
Well, why are we fapping today?
Why why not?
Anyway, so I'm just going to read out some of these because.
Rag is Mr.
Mr.
Rag has missed them.
So the first question was rags.
You massive.
Why do you need a switch when you have a high power better
frame rate higher pixel count infinitely customizable PC?
Well, the the PC with all four mentioned qualities and more.
Doesn't have access to a few games.
Plus, it was a very kind donation made by James Moore.
Therefore, I'm going to enjoy it for all that I can.
And if I was going to get a console, it would be a switch.
And for the people who are saying, yeah,
you can carry the PC around with you portable.
You don't need to switch for that.
It's like, yeah, that's true.
I can't fit my PC in my car.
Everyone can.
It's just a bit awkward.
You have to get a very large backpack
and you can put all of it in there with a portable.
I can't fit it in there.
Well, then you have to get one of them big old 14 wheelers,
as you said.
No, 18 wheelers.
And we call them semis.
Semis, I thought you said.
No, no, no, it's a semi.
If you want to transport something first, get a semi.
Yeah.
And then load it up.
That sounds hideously sexy down the road.
The next one was Hi Rags.
Hi.
I demand you sing Akbar's theme on the 24 hour stream
in honor of drunk rags.
Akbar's theme.
This is the thing I think I reminded you before,
but it'll be in the meme videos for the 24 hour one
and you're going to remember.
It's funny as shit.
I think you may have seen the video already.
I don't know.
I can't remember.
Maybe, but I don't know.
I can recall, actually.
Next one, Hi Rags.
Hello.
This is for you.
Spend it irresponsibly.
What's your favorite song by Pogo?
Probably Happy.
Fair enough.
It says, I found him through your videos a while ago
and he's since become my new favorite artist.
He is a very talented lad.
Beautiful.
Hey Rags.
Hello.
You know what happened to Top Hats and Champagne's channel?
His channel got banned, apparently.
No idea why.
Uh, what happened?
Well, you sort of answered your own question,
but I'll actually be seeing him in a little bit over a week
because he's flying over to the States.
Well, that's awesome.
Yeah, I'll be cool.
Did he like, did he break one of the arbitrary rules?
He said it was for hate speech.
So who the fuck knows what he did?
What a hater.
He didn't fucking do shit.
Uh, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Does V deserve to burn to death in a tank
if he doesn't dominate the fire?
Hmm.
Assuming that's a reference.
That is a reference.
Um, at this point, I don't know.
That's an interesting question.
I would say that's all based up to the, to the roles, you know?
I think they should decide.
Hmm.
I don't want to be impetuous.
And then Hi Rags.
Hello.
I'm thinking of purchasing a handgun.
What are your recommendations?
Um, I have a number of handguns.
Depends on what you're going to use it for.
But I, I doubt that it is difficult to go wrong with the ubiquitous Glocks.
I own two.
They are both fantastic.
Simple.
If you want something really cheap, uh, you can get an Agahn 1895.
Those are, those are quaint, nifty little, little guns.
Um, 1911 and gone.
It's basic.
It's hard to go wrong with a lot of stuff, but it depends on what you use it for.
But I'd say get a clock.
You're going to get a Glock 17.
Well, there you go.
But is it cost effective as well?
Uh, it depends on what you're trying to do with it.
If you're trying to use it as a paperweight, then no, it is not cost effective.
Oh.
What about a manner in which to turn your TV off and on by shooting it?
This was made very mainstream by an episode of Simpsons.
Well, I know that with a firearm, it is very easy to turn your TV off.
However, turning it on afterwards, arguably more difficult.
Arguably.
Arguably.
I'm going to say you've missed the opportunity.
Um, and then the last one is glad to see you guys still going.
Gives me more to catch up on later.
If rags come back, comes back, ask him when his next video is coming out.
Well, I guess it came out.
So no, it hasn't.
It's I'll probably, I'm just going to release it tomorrow.
I'm just going to set up the thing to premiere it tomorrow.
Because I think it's cleared for monetization and I'm, I'm pretty, I mean,
I'm pretty confident that this content ID thing is going to go through without any issue
and that it's totally fraudulent and everything.
So I'm just going to go ahead and release the video tomorrow because it's all done.
I just need to premiere it.
And I think it's been, it's been unlisted a while to where I think it'll be.
There's no monetization issues.
And I've already started on the brown table video.
I'm looking forward to that.
It's going to be fun.
We're covering it today.
It'd be great.
We are.
Yay.
Sorry, an enormous semi outside clearly went past.
No, that's the sound that semi makes.
It just reminds me of the fucking South Park episodes where they're like.
Motiv, motorbikes.
Uh, right.
Yeah.
So first thing that I should obviously talk about is because a lot of people are very
concerned.
Where is Mr.
Wolf and how is he?
So, um, if any of you don't follow me on Twitter, I did a big thread about it and I'm
basically just going to read it because it's more concise than anything I'm going to come
up with while rambling.
So, um, I've spoken to him, um, since we last saw him in his channel as a springy.
I'm not sure if rags has or not, but I'm pretty sure we'll talk to a couple of people
just to let them know he's back.
Like he's not nothing horrible has happened to him.
He's, he's taken many steps towards improvement.
He's going on medication, seeing a therapist and taking more time to explore the issues
at hand with the support of his family.
His channel's not going to be recovered.
It's permanently gone as to whether or not he's ever going to do YouTube things ever
again is undecided.
And while there's just nothing else to really say for now, um, he's happy for any podcast
appearances.
So like even his own ones to a degree and like Efap and times he's guested on other
people's stuff.
Like for all of that to stay up, um, he even wanted me to make sure I had mentioned like
not so great debate and the just right one.
And I guess like me and him had a podcast.
I think a couple of times me and rags are on his podcast.
Like all those can stay up.
He doesn't mind, but he'd prefer it if people didn't re upload his reviews.
But, um, he understands that people want to see all of his content regardless.
So it's, um, just something he wants to move on from personally.
So that's, that's his perspective on that.
I know a lot of people wanted to know.
Efap's going to carry on.
Well, well, well, focuses on his life.
He's always allowed on this show and he can always come back literally at any point.
Um, but his appearances on podcasts, his own reviews, and any content creation in
general are not going to be important right now compared to working on his own life.
He's aware of the enormous output of out pour of support, um, something that's been
extremely kind and loving.
He's, he knows that we're all here.
If he needs anyone to talk to you and that we care about him enormously.
And he can't thank you all enough, which overall with all of us together is very good news.
I'm going to make some real changes and focus on his life.
Best thing for him now is his time and space with an open door to any support that he needs.
And obviously thank you all your patience and the kind messages.
A lot of people are very concerned, but, uh, okay.
Went through a rough, a really rough patch and that, um, he's just, he doesn't want to do YouTube
as is, and he'd like to sort of let go of the whole thing.
But, um, yeah, that is essentially the update, uh, because he was on the last Efap.
He just wasn't, um, a lot of people were very concerned about some of the comments he was making
and then he released like this, this message on his channel before deleting it.
So that I'm probably going to have to answer a whole bunch of super chats in future and
future episodes as well.
But that's essentially, um, all the information on it needs to be talked about more than that.
Unless, is there anything else you wanted to mention Rags or is it all good?
I think that was a, um, very well-rounded summary of recent events.
All right. Uh, for those who are reasonably concerned about the fact that I haven't released
a video now in coming up to like three months, I haven't actually checked the time it's on the way,
which is something I say all the time, but I've literally got, uh, I'm on the final stretch now.
I'm adding visuals for, for a selection.
My guess is two weeks at most, one week at the lowest, but that's if I really push it.
Um, it's probably going to be my best video ever, at least from my perspective.
I put a shit to the work into this one to the limit limit because we're in it to win it.
I'm excited to get it out. It's coming. I swear. Okay.
And once it's out, I know I have like a week, then people will start asking for the next one again.
I'll be like, no, I need another 10 years. That's like a Rags and a Mahler video
within the span of two weeks. Yeah, there you go. It'll be the best.
Um, yeah, that's like masturbating four times in one day.
I hear you guys. I get it. I'm listening. I'm working. It's coming. You'll love it.
It's going to be two hours and 40 minutes. So think of it as like three and a half rage
videos all being released at once. You know, if I had pasted out in parts,
people probably would have preferred it, but fuck that. Why would anyone do that?
That's lame. And long videos are better. Um, but yeah, uh, the only other thing I wanted to
mention quickly was that apparently major Lee has made a video about the fandom menace.
Have you heard about this Rags? Say what major Lee has made a video criticizing the fandom
menace, which is essentially the collective that involves, um, geeks and gamers, world-class
bullshoes, nude, Rotic, and a couple of others. Well, a lot of other. I mean, that's sort of us.
So yeah, I think we're honorary members. I can't remember how it works. Absolutely.
We've covered, uh, Star Wars enough. Um, but Jeremy mentioned to me that apparently he's,
he's criticized a lot of people in the video that aren't a part of it. And I don't think we show up
in it, but, um, yeah, he is funny. Um, he's, I, I watched a bit of, uh, points. He's like, uh,
explaining how they probably didn't like it because like the, the female character
told the whole shot protagonist, uh, was wrong points or whatever. And I was like, didn't,
didn't on the EFAP that we had him on, he like conceded the Poe did nothing wrong.
Yeah, I don't, I don't, um, have a great amount of faith in major Lee's ability to string together
coherent, logical progressions of thought and to stay consistent. Well, so he's going to go back
to his channel. He's going to make some bullshit despite everything that he told us personally
live, because that seems to kind of fit in with who he is. I was going to say, like, for Jeremy,
it's like, just watch the debate. You'll, you'll get all the information you need, but, uh,
who knows? Maybe like a cheap card table, maybe they'll have some form of a debate or something.
Who knows going forward, but yeah, apparently the, the fandom menace are dealing with him now.
You know, EFAP was just his first target. Well, I guess TLJ. I don't know. Um, and yeah,
that's the other thing, by the way, he's, uh, he like admitted on our podcast that he says a lot
of things just to be provocative. So like, you don't even know if he's just trolling. You're just
like, Oh, okay. Oh, you don't believe in your points or you do whatever. But yeah, well,
yeah, that goes regardless. That's, that's the intro out of the way. Um,
welcome to EFAP 48, which was, uh, delayed by a week. And we were supposed to have one
last week and this week to make for episode 50 next week. The plan as it currently stands is
to do two episodes tonight as a sort of like a buildup to the fact that me and rag is going to
try and be awake for 24 hours in a row, which is going to be fun. Whoa, whoa. We're, we're doing,
we're doing two episodes today. That was the plan in one, in one day today, today.
Okay. Hey, wait a second. Wait a second. How come today is only one day?
That's a fucking question for the ages, dude. What makes you think I have the answer to something
that deep because you are a video essay review man on YouTube. No, I'm not. I'm just a Rambler.
I can't, I don't know how to make a point. Don't give me an answer. I don't know. I can't be
concise. I don't ever make a point. I don't stay on topic. Oh yeah. That's another piece of news.
I've been told that Eric taxon is making a video on rags. I'm going to be exciting. Sure. It'll be
sure to be as fucking amazing as his last two. Yeah, I know. I like the
B and Wolf have already been done. So it's just rags remaining because he's done the trilogy.
It'll be great. Uh, but yes, either way, that, that is still happening the 22nd of this month,
which is just six days from now. How terrifying. The plan is to do a 24 hour episode of eFAB,
which means three eight hour streams. I think it's the plan because it was going to be four,
seven hour ones or wealth, seven, seven, seven, and whatever else. Um, but we proved with, with
one of the last eFABs, was it the last eFAB that we can actually go over eight hours. We went over
by a minute and it still works. So I'm assuming the cap is actually 12 hours. A couple of people
have said 12. Um, as long as we can make it eight, I'll be fine. We'll, we'll, we'll split into three
parts. It'll be fine. But yeah, uh, the plan is to literally cover the rogues gallery as,
as I'll probably title it. We're going to go back and check out a whole bunch of people we've covered
before, but different takes will probably be a bunch of tonals. That's going to be great. And
the guests, it's going to be like a free for all. So whoever shows up who has been a previous guest
is welcome to come on. We'll cap it at six. And then if there's people who are waiting to come in
and it's someone who's been here for like three hours or something, we'll be like, um,
get the fuck out of here in a really kind way. See like that. We would message him and he would
be like, we'd be like, get the fuck out. And he'd be like, Oh guys, I got to go now. And be like,
yeah, yeah. Um, so get excited. Maybe it's going to be great. Also memes. There's a shit ton of
memes that have built up. I have like 30 videos, a lot of pictures, yellow rim down halfway in the
toilet. They have built up and accumulated and they must be, they must be flushed. A clog has
happened. Um, and since metal has rudely abandoned his position, I'll say, uh, Hey, welcome. Welcome
to the stream. Jay Longbone. It's been such a long time. How wonderful to have you return.
Um, it feels wonderful to be here. Oh, why? Yeah. Yeah. That was fake. I hate it.
How's YouTube been since you've lost been here? I guess it's been good to you.
It's been all right. You know, a lot, a little, a few more demonetizations. I would like,
and my fucking Miley Cyrus music video reaction, uh, got it flagged my channel. Oh, I got a warning
for a nudity. Oh, well, I'm sure if we went to Miley Cyrus's official channel, it would be the,
yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. It would be up monetized fucking chill. Elmo would be
advertised on it. Fuck it. Was this what, which was this mother's daughter? Oh yeah. That, that
garbage. Yeah. How dare you. She's a saint. Yeah. But that, that, that's YouTube is that Miley Cyrus
can have her video, but if you react to it, then you'll get a warning for nudity. Yeah. It makes
so much sense. Yeah. A truck stop horror has, has more leeway than me. It sucks.
Well, now you got a backup. Well, so I, I, I remember curious, curiously checking out what's
with the, the 50 shades of gray trailers. What's, what's that about? Tell me, tell me a story.
Videos you've made
tie me up to the bed and slap me. I was addressed to not rags, but that was undressed to rags.
You mean? Oh, I get it. Nudity, especially with the nudity warnings still tied together,
but that's weird. I never give warnings about my nudity, but I'm always naked.
Well, don't the glasses count as clothing? Not really. They're more of an accessory.
You could use an accessory on a watch and you're like, I'm not naked. What if you put on a
thousand watches? Um, I guess you could have like a watch suit, a suit of watches. Then it's more
than an accessory. All right. I guess since you're back, I guess I'm like, yeah, welcome.
Have you even been on an actual, you just been on the stupid gay ones, right? The, uh, the gaming
ones. Uh, anyone? Oh no, what you were, when you, you were talking about like Joseph Anderson,
I think. But I was just kind of there because the actual guest actually showed up. So it was like,
what if I type in moolah metal? Oh, I literally have no effap results. That's interesting. The
first result is 2014 museum box break for Mick. What the fuck? What's that got to do with either
of us? Oh, wow. So, oh, apparently you're on episode 48. Oh, that's interesting. How was that?
Pretty terrible. And you're on gaming. Oh, wait, for some reason, wish upon shows up you in in there.
Yeah. Hi, how are you doing? He runs a Twitch stream where he plays video games
and I'd actually recommend going to check it out. Um, because the last one you did was well,
the one before the last one you did was pretty amusing. Yeah. Me and Rags were there. They were
t-shirts made. They were crude. It was wonderful. It was amazing. 60% of the TKO audience is us.
Yeah. TKO and pommel party. Uh, yeah, but yeah, that was probably my favorite TKO we ever did.
Like, that was fucking awesome. And I would recommend watching that vod as well because it
is very entertaining. You can find a link to his channel in the description and then go to videos
and then look for the one that's six hours long. Uh, I think it was six hours. Yeah. And it happened.
Well, actually the easy way to find it would be to look for the one that was made on the 15th of
August. 14th of August. 14th. Yeah. 14th of August. There you go. It's pretty, it's pretty much just
the second vid, uh, pod you can find. I did like a short one yesterday, but I was tired because of
all the drinking we did. So I just, uh, just tears up my flisms and flimpled my dangers. And yeah.
Some people will know that reference. Some people will be like, what the fuck is wrong with this guy?
Flism to my tangus. Yeah. There's some deep lore on my Twitch channel that happens once in a while.
That's deep. They may be an upload to Moolah for what was committed to on that fateful night.
Not saying it wasn't worth seeing, but it was. I would look forward to that. I would be funniest
shit. So one other thing before we sit or watching any videos, um, apparently during Vito's stream,
because for some reason he knows Matt Jabo. Good old, good old Monday. I'm sure they get along
swimmingly. Um, he, someone snapped shied this and apparently my name came up some way,
shape or form and, uh, Matt shared his perspective of, of, uh, I guess an element.
Oh, wait, wait, Matt. Well, he had Matt on a stream. They were streaming together. Oh,
no. He's just in the, he's just in the comments, the chat, I guess.
Lull. No, I don't spend a six hours watching a review of a single film. I just watched the damn
film. I just find it amusing. Cause I'm like, wait, you never like watched breaks out of anything.
This, I mean, he, does he hate Plinkett too? Then again, I don't think Plinkett's actually
ever gone over the movie runtime. So he's nailed it in that regard. Um, but yeah, guys,
he's, he's cried over a fucking YouTube plaque. You don't have any fucking, you don't have any
fucking call. It's like criticize anyone. I was his wife. I'd be like, Matt, Matt,
you didn't cry nearly that hard when your child was born or when we got married.
What is this YouTube button that he's like, you wouldn't understand.
I mean, you cried on the wedding night, cause that was for different reasons.
It takes a lot of perseverance.
Yeah. I remember that. Fucking no idiots that are subscribed to me. Why watch my videos when you
can just watch the things I'm talking about. I can go to the box somewhere. Same for video games.
Don't watch video game reviews. Just play the games. It's not entertainment.
How many, how many, well, I was going to say how many hours does he spend a day making
a shitty videos, but it's clear he didn't actually put any time into them.
You know about his Blu-ray channel. Yes, I do. Yeah. He has a Blu-ray channel.
He films himself going to like Walmart and stuff and just buying Blu-rays
and then being like, these are my Blu-rays. I did actually see a full video, but he's like,
I guess he reviews the Blu-rays. I don't know. Okay. Monday map Blu-ray channel. What is it called?
He has like an attempt to, oh, oh, we're not looking at pandas right now, guys.
Jeez. Funny pandas. Panda emoji. Brackets. Epic laughs. Close bracket.
You know what? I don't think I can find his Blu-ray channel. Is it just three book theater?
Is that it? Oh, no, no, no. It's like Blu-ray therapy. Yes. Which is something that he needs
is he needs therapy. I don't understand. Did you steal that name from Unbox Therapy? Maybe,
I guess. He has. Maybe it's a reference, but why would you make those videos? I don't understand.
Maybe Monday map is a mystery to me. He always will be. Why does he go through this song and
dance routine? Why does he do it? And I get up to the pearly gates and be like, God,
why did you make that one? What's the point of that? It's like, it's none of your goddamn business.
Um, has everybody received the link to the watch together?
Yep. Yes. I have to click it though. So the first thing we're going to be covering today in this
wonderful world is a video called what makes good art slash film. So I guess the question of
what makes good art, what makes good film. And it's from our beloved regular brown table. Um,
who rags is actually making a response to, I believe his video. Yeah, he's going to be great
because brown tables are dumb and he's kind of, he's kind of like, he's kind of a psychopath.
He's just high functioning. He's got, he's got whatever he's referenced in memes. So now
he just has one catchphrase, which is that sexual harassment and sexual harassment. It was weird
before we watched his video live. Uh, there were like no comments about how he felt that
like she was completely justified. But since we watched this loads being like, you're kind of a
psycho, like, yeah, that was me. I'd fucking turn him into dust. He watched like fucking
full videos talking about that scene in Captain Marvel. All of them were like, well, you know,
you just have to consider it from her perspective. He's a creep. He's creeping on her. Yeah,
that deserves total. That deserves annihilation. It just makes you think like, have you never
interacted with a human being in real life? They just go, hello there. Would you like some help?
Sexual harassment, sexual harassment. Um, the starting stream was if you want to kill myself
already though. Yeah. What, what is this? This video is opinion based. There isn't really a right
answer and is an open ended question. So why even makes it so open ended? It is so open ended that
it's only four and a half minutes long. Wait, this is complex. This video is opinion based. There
isn't really the right answer. Well, how do you know? Have you determined that there isn't a right
answer? Yeah, that sounds like an answer to me. He's determined that is the right answer. There
isn't a right. Well, yeah, it's like, maybe there is a right answer out there. Now I get, you're not
even going to pursue the right answer because you've declared there isn't one. What's the,
what's going to be in this four minutes if he's already decided that it's not a thing that has
an answer? Just Patreon. Skillshare is like no brown tape. Sexual harassment on Patreon.
I mean, does the video just, is it just this? It's the whole, it's the whole thing,
just this black screen. Yes, there is no answer. We'll give props for that. That would be funny.
Very self-aware video. Is everyone ready for this masterpiece? Probably.
Oh, yeah.
What? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on, hold on.
Why was that so funny?
I saw this from Topia Fan Art. Okay, so we have an intro. Okay,
sorry that we've had to pause it. Two seconds. So you're going to make an intro for your channel.
Your channel is based around movie reviews, film criticism. It only makes sense that as one of the
collage montage videos for your intro, that you would have some, not even Zootopia,
not even the movie Zootopia, but a cheap fan. I don't know. I don't know if it's a port,
a furry porn. Zootopia furry porn and film. It's that combined with a piano that makes you
let your brain immediately go, wait, what the fuck? And in this scene, Judy Hopps eats spaghetti.
We need to analyze it. All right, we'll play it again. Precious audience.
Then we need to see.
I only have enough time for like four videos. Man running on sidewalk. Spider-Man putting on
his suit, I guess. Spider-Man putting on Judy Hopps CD with chopsticks. Arrow Man.
Do you think, you know what I think it was? You wanted to make a more profound video than what
makes a good film, but you only had like film footage. And so he was like, if I say it's good
art as well, I'm gonna have to involve some of the medium. He's like, what about bad fanfic of
Judy Hopps eating spaghetti? That's good enough. Chopsticks.
Okay. Well, I guess you can eat spaghetti with uncooked spaghetti as the chopsticks.
Yeah, there's a lot of potential there. A lot of different ways you can do it.
I'm loving this video already. I don't know rabbits like pasta.
We all love forms of art, whether it be song, dance. Music is by Ed Sheeran.
Oh, I wonder if that'll be a prominent copyright. Let's hope not.
I see we have an Ed Sheeran fan. He was in Game of Thrones.
Yeah. Everyone complained about that. And then he was apparently, he was horribly disfigured
in like the next season. We'd find that out in like a passing comment. All the two seasons later,
I think I can't remember. Yeah. He fucking fell down the staircase and landed on a bed of knives.
Like there's some girl says like, oh, Eddie, yeah, he got burned or something like that.
So he wasn't already disfigured. No, according to the show.
Yeah. So he's shaping eyes. That's just how he looks normally.
That's on the good days. Yeah, he got burned. Also, he's made shitty music.
His music is good enough for a brown table video. So it must be pretty good.
I don't know. Song, dance, fine art, graphic art, film, et cetera. And one way or another.
And as an artist myself, I do enjoy it. Why didn't you show the Judy Hopps thing when he
got his film? That's fine art. Like Judy Hopps, the fucking bravery of the statement. I do enjoy
certain. Has anyone ever made a more controversial statement? Put that just put that caption on a
picture of Judy Hopps with chopsticks. I do enjoy certain art. I see you're a man of
sophisticated tastes. Just put like this on Instagram as an inspirational quote. This
picture like this with brown table and Watchmen 2009 on it. I mean, it's pre-play with the ball.
Also, I just realized it's off center on my stream. That's unacceptable. You make me sick.
Blame some kind of ruling class of people. I'm going to be nonspecific.
That's better. Didn't watch together change again due to this to me all the fucking time.
That'll have to do for now to make sure we get the whole thing.
And I really searched Judy Hopps chopsticks.
It's it's not necessarily porn, but it will. Some of these images will clearly become porn.
You know, yeah, yeah, we have not a precedent is what you're saying.
These are extremely posible action figures, I might add. But no chopsticks. No, here's one.
Here's one. It's different, though. It's everyone there.
We're really going down the proverbial rabbit hole here, aren't we?
What is the use of chopsticks to to stimulate her clitoris, her rat rabbit?
You actually that's the way that you have experience with this, don't you?
Chopsticks of my bunny. What a terrible place to get a splinter.
Oh, I feel like just googling Zootopia is a really bad idea in general.
Yes, it's ruined forever. I mean, what is it? Did you guys see it? I did. I thought it was meh,
but a lot of people hate it. I've never seen the movie. I've never seen Zootopia.
Yeah, it was meh. I fell asleep on this shit. I was curious if any because if any of you
hated or chopsticks that I would have stayed awake.
But I feel that modern films are lacking is a chopstick representation.
If Borbo had written that fucking script, it would have been fire.
It would have gotten Oscars up the ass.
One of them intrinsic truths also.
And some of these are just they're just straight up fucking.
Well, there's an audience for it. This free free market capitalism is what they say, right?
Yeah, I've actually seen like I've actually seen like 3D Judy hop porn.
We're like it's so it's like it's photorealistic.
So whenever like you can you see the dick penetrating or it's like
for and then you're like, there's people out there who will pay for this.
Yeah, it's like dick sloshing.
It's like dick sloshing inside or like photorealistic bunny cheeks.
I wasn't. I wasn't prepared for that.
Welcome to E-FAT 30 days.
Today we'll be covering Brown Table.
I was not prepared for that conversation.
Eventually, I know about how like there's there's so much work for artists for that
sort of shit.
And these people will pay through the nose to get it that some artists are like,
well, I mean, I want to put food on the table.
Okay, so I'm going to I'm going to pay you thousands of dollars
to draw Judy Hopps eating with chopsticks with Nick.
You know, okay, that's not too bad.
And then they fuck.
And they just oh, man, they just go after it.
And they're like, absolutely not.
They're like, I will pay you five thousand dollars.
So much money.
I need to see this.
I'm in a way that not even I can describe why I need to see this.
Do you guys see an abortion?
The second statement, I dislike some art, too.
Yes.
Whoa, whoa, calm down.
I was I wasn't prepared like we did a whole debate about this.
Types of art, for example, me personally, I enjoy fine art.
That's heavily detailed, like Renaissance paintings or Baroque paintings.
But me, I don't like most postmodern art or minimalist pieces.
Wow, your your video is a minimalist piece.
Yeah.
How about that?
Nailed it, dude.
But that's just me.
Talk about Judy Hopps.
That doesn't mean they aren't well made or have had any less time dedicated to them.
That's the part of art to me that subject.
I don't know.
I have a feeling that the Sistine Chapel maybe took a little bit more time than
fucking Jackson Pollock splatter and shit on a canvas.
But he just said, like, some of them may have had the same time spent on them.
That's subjective.
It's like, well, no, that's we can definitely quantify how much time was spent if we have it.
In fact, we we we have inventions called like clocks in order to objectify time.
You present it to him like on a plate and he's like,
no, I reject your concept of time.
It's like an empty plate.
Would you like some time, sir?
Maybe it's like a fear of clocks.
You know, I get crazy people.
Oh, I suppose I could have some seconds.
Oh, nice.
Oh, see what I did there?
And then you use chopsticks to pick it up.
And then I don't know.
I see you brought it back.
I like that, too.
High five.
I fucking brought it back to.
I subjectively enjoy your story.
I do like some art.
I dislike other art.
How dare you.
God, the fuck down, sir.
To see art for ourselves, we're meant to comprehend it.
And it's up to our own selves to determine whether or not the art we see before us is good.
All right.
I like isn't really like point related, but instead of saying our own selves ourselves,
you could have said ourselves.
As if as if like we own a self that is us or something like my own self.
So the whole the whole thing about my is that it sort of implies ownership.
The word my I like the it's so ridiculously pretentious, though.
It is up to our own selves.
I own my self.
Don't we aren't we all slaves to ourselves?
I don't disagree for you.
Interpret it the way we want to interpret it.
So then is there actually.
There's bad text.
There's such a thing as bad text.
I read that as rats.
What makes good rats?
What makes good rats?
It's not like that, but the T is a baseball man.
Oh, shit, I need to be writing this shit down, man.
Fuck what makes good rat?
Oh, my God.
What makes good rats?
Oh, let's bring it back to the topia.
What makes a good.
I don't even remember the opening statement.
Our own selves.
I'm just going to write that.
Oh, my goodness.
If it's up to us to determine whether some art is good or bad in our opinion.
What the fuck does good or bad mean for you?
That would be a good start.
Just tell us what you mean.
Yeah, we already admit it in.
How do we he probably just like, oh, I know a good and bad art.
To me, that that's what everyone thinks they are.
And it doesn't require any clarification.
The first question to throw this all apart, I'd be like, oh, you mean like good art,
like morally good art.
But he'd be like, oh, I'd be like, oh, so you beat a different kind of good.
It reminds me of the whole there's only one definition of weird thing.
What makes good rats?
Oh, wait, it's not.
Let me pause.
Does it squeak?
If so, is it good or bad?
There are probably qualifications for that.
Can you find the cheese on the other side of the maze?
Is it the father of four turtles?
Father of four turtles.
Oh, that's why I was lagging.
Okay.
All right.
Hopefully that problem goes away.
We'll see.
I'm going to take us back to one minute.
Because I've missed everything.
Awesome.
If it's up to us to determine whether some art is good or bad in our opinion,
then how do we know when art is actually.
Okay, so did you not find a picture of people looking at art on the wall?
Did you have to like create one transition?
It looks like the dude in the white shirt is fucking the other dude.
Looks like he's giving real chopsticks.
Why would you do this?
Look at the wall.
I can't get off.
He's trying to make this deep pretentious ass video and he photoshops this deliberately.
Well, all the art is like an inch above the ground.
So you have to lay down normally on top of other patrons in order to stare at the art.
What the hell, man?
Oh, don't fuck me or my son ever again.
Art gallery with shit.
I get raped by four people.
Why does it say divide on the divine symbol?
Like this is it would be really artsy if it said multiply.
Oh yeah.
Like, oh, it's not what that simple beats.
You must be smart.
Art is subjective.
Then why are there art schools teaching you the correct way to draw?
That's the thing.
Because people don't want to get garbage.
Wait, what can't be bad.
Let's see.
Let's go and see that guy's table like no one's going to pay.
That's shit.
That's awful.
I won't buy that table.
Oh, right.
Let's let's bring it back to furry porn.
If you can draw really well, people will pay out the fucking nose for your art.
But if you draw like crap, people won't do that.
And going to school is an investment.
No, I don't want to say I'm not trying to be mean, but this is shit.
Don't you dare say that isn't shit.
Is that a cake or a leprechaun?
So in my foundation arts class, if you drew that in front of the teacher I had,
he'd be like, yeah, that's shit.
You need to do it again.
And if you had the fucking balls to ask what is wrong with it, he would fucking frown at you.
That's so bad.
He would say, I think you're the first person ever to need summer school for art class.
Okay.
I mean, maybe he's going to develop that.
That's correct way to draw.
No, that's the more candy bad.
I recently attended a talk by Tom Hunn, who's speaking about art.
And I recently attended a talk.
Where he spoke at length about the subject of artistic values.
He would frown.
No way.
Are you serious?
Theo, if you, he would be like, he would have all of the basics on how to actually
like translate a thing to page.
And if you were, he would think you're fucking with him.
If you drew what we just saw on there, he'd be like, what the hell are you doing?
That's like not even remotely straight table.
It's like a wobbly.
I know.
Really?
Where is the, there isn't.
If you said you were doing like fucking, I don't know, absurdist or something,
he'd probably be like, yeah, okay, that's great.
Just like walk away from the table.
How people can define themselves as artists.
And he stated that you can be a bad dancer, but you're still dancing.
Yeah, but your ex smell like assholes, but there's still eggs.
All right.
Yeah,
dancing because like these eggs are rotten and they've gone bad and I could smell them
from across the room, but it is still an egg salad.
Technically, sure.
Nobody's saying that bad films aren't films.
I don't think we take the label from you.
You know, that reminded me of myself, not good at all.
But to say this, then we can also say this about movies.
You can make a terrible movie.
And while it's still qualified.
What the fuck are you, didn't you say it's only good and bad based?
Oh my God.
That's right.
This movie existed.
Yeah.
The last, oh Jesus.
They fight with swords.
I never saw that because the other ones were so great.
I didn't see it because Anthony Hopkins was in it and I didn't want to see him ruin his rep.
He's been a lot of bad stuff in Venus.
Just only watch the good things.
That's a good, I approve.
He's Welsh by the way.
Why can we beat him?
I'm coming over.
He came from my horrible place.
I own his Megatron.
He is ourself or whatever.
Let's get it.
I don't know.
Own self.
Yes.
He is my own self.
He owns his wrinkly ass.
Oh God.
You can make a terrible movie.
And while it's still qualifies as a film.
How do the humans even stand a chance?
Against the giant.
The fucking giant transfer.
I don't know.
What even is the plot?
Transform into windmills.
Is the trebuchets.
What is the plot?
Do they fight like transformers or is it transformers versus transformers with humans
running around with swords?
Like, yeah, we're helping.
It's like, don't you think somebody would have like painted that on like a wall or a
tapestry or something?
Oh, try transforming robots from space.
I guess they just forgot to write this down.
It was all covered up.
Oh, it was like in the first one.
Oh, I was going to point out that with every Transformers movie, the transformers arrived
at Earth like earlier and earlier every time.
Like first, it was Megatron.
Then it was the fucking pyramids or whatever.
And eventually super Megatron goes back to like King Arthur and shit.
What the fuck?
They think they can pull off the same thing they did with Predator.
Like, oh, we were back here.
We were there since olden days.
See, but it doesn't make any sense because they can transform into trucks and shit.
And predators are just like they're hunters and hunters always existed.
So that makes sense.
But it's like they wouldn't.
What the fuck?
Transforming robots are eternal.
Except when they're not.
Can you try to like wicker basket?
Like best benefit of the doubt here.
I don't understand.
I thought he said it was all subjective.
Now he's like, but ultimately, it can still be bad.
This is proved by saying a movie could be bad, but still be a movie.
It's like, what the fuck are you telling me right now?
It's like, OK, first off, we're setting the bar really low.
I don't even say low.
It's confusing as fuck.
Where is his bar?
Like, where would you put his bar?
I don't know.
Up his ass.
Yeah, opens his mouth.
You can see the tip of the bar movies.
You can make a terrible movie.
And while it still qualifies as a film, it's still bad.
This reminded me of Carl Morrison.
This reminds me of Carl Morrison.
This reminds me of socialism.
It is a shitty economic system, but it is still an economic system.
This is the equivalent of the Bilbo Baggins thing.
This reminds me of Carl Morrison.
Is that really?
As I was watching Transformers the last night or whatever.
I couldn't help but be reminded of Karl Marx.
Why?
Why did they do this to me?
Jesus Christ.
It's OK.
Let's do it.
I don't think Carl Marx saw that often.
Bad.
This reminded me of Carl Marx and Frederick Angel and their views on art and philosophy.
And if that's not the right way to pronounce Angel.
Who are you apologizing to?
Ted.
It's his loving family rags.
I'm so sorry.
All of my viewers.
Sorry for them.
Art is defined as a manifestation of the social consciousness.
Art changes his time.
Wow.
What what an insane.
Wow.
It's the fuck is it to do with what he's talking about?
Marx's dot or.
We want.
So he got a picture.
Wait, why didn't it blur out the same?
Well, it is from Marxist dot org.
OK.
Content and forms of art were not established firmly once and for all,
but they inevitably developed and changed according to definite laws along the development
of the material world and human society.
That's why we have different eras of art with an era never again repeating it.
Love how he jumped to that from saying Transformers is bad, but it's a movie.
OK.
No, tell us more about fucking Karl Marx.
What's his take on rat?
He was right about everything.
Patient meant to be a commentary or a piece meant to reflect it.
Older art cannot exist in today's era because it would just not make any sense.
Due to different political and economical climates, art cannot be replicated into another era.
Bullshit.
What do you mean?
If we take something that was made, it just takes over the past era and copy it.
Look at it.
Yeah, you can look at art and be like, yeah, I'm going to do something like this.
And then you do it.
Yeah, listen to any given rap song like they sample every fucking body.
Does he not know what like synthwave is?
I need it.
What is it?
What is it?
What does he think replicate means?
That's like the one thing we definitely can do.
Like go back in time.
I guess that's what he fucking means.
Well, no, because I assume he means we can't recreate it by replicate
because, you know, it was created in a different time.
It's like, but we probably have all the tools they had and we just have to see what they did.
Yeah, you can look at a Michelangelo painting and be like, yeah, I can see it here.
So I'll replicate what I see.
Also, that implies that there's never any flow to like political and economical
climates as if we don't go from one to the other or anything.
We only ever go from one to two to be three to four to five to say we never repeat any of them.
Somehow this statement doesn't doesn't seem accurate, but it was from Marxist.org.
So oh, so it's fucking guaranteed.
Do you even know who said this?
Like was it was it brown table?
Was it a Marxist?
It was Mr. Marxists.
I mean, you can't have Victorian dresses in the year 2017.
So like this, I believe we hold certain films at a certain prestige when compared to others,
especially when they talk about something of the time.
I'm so confused.
Like he talks about something and then something pops up on screen.
We've talked about this before, but if this is super relevant to your argument, read it out.
Why?
Because it seems like he created this way on purpose.
I guess we're supposed to pause and read this.
Perhaps some movies are held at a higher standard than others due to relevant commentary.
Is this for people with cataracts?
It's like deaf people who can't fucking hear it.
So if the commentary becomes irrelevant or if it's relevant to a bygone era, it's no longer good.
Because I disagree.
Waiting for anyone else to take on it.
It's not playing for me.
Are you still at 221?
We're on 233 right now.
We can go back.
Yeah, it didn't you.
It says you left a room for me.
Oh.
Oh.
Let me reload.
Yeah, there you are.
That working for you.
Like 221.
Good.
Not make any sense.
I mean, you can't have Victorian dresses in the year 2017.
So like this, I-
Yeah, was that a joke or was that serious?
Because yeah, you can.
Yeah, you can.
We have reenactors.
Does he mean-
You could make one.
We have them.
Unless he's going to be as pedantic as to be like you can't have the literal ones from then now.
Or maybe he means like you can't walk into Starbucks wearing a fucking toga.
I mean.
I mean, don't talk until you tried it.
I don't know.
Don't be a pussy bro.
Yeah.
I believe we hold certain films.
So this is the quote, Rax.
Perhaps some movies are held to a higher standard than others due to relevant commentary.
Maybe.
What does that mean?
Well, my first take was does that mean then
that we sometimes say a movie's bad because its commentary was relevant to a bygone era
and thus we no longer appreciate it.
It's like that seems kind of redundant.
What if we're the commentary and we're the ones who decide whether or not it sailed to a-
I don't know.
That's such a weird, flimsy, floaty kind of thing to say.
Yeah.
He talks in the same tone as the guy who said this is my favorite part.
That's true.
This is my favorite part.
This is my favorite part.
Yeah.
A certain prestige when compared to others,
especially when they talk about something of the times,
whether it be Zootopia or Spotl-
Oh my gosh!
It had to be brought in, okay.
Stop!
Films like these have won awards, not only due to their execution,
but also the commentary on the world.
And methods and techniques movies use, like the long take that Birdman uses
or Baby Driver uses at the beginning of the film, are deemed great.
But it's not as- there's usually more to it than just going great.
No, it was a long take that's great.
Like a long take of a chair in a room.
Not gonna be that impressive.
Whoa, the chair didn't even move.
That chair can keep a straight face.
Because as a society, we've come to understand that this is good filmmaking.
Why did you do that with the text?
Because it's artsy.
Oh man.
Creating an emotional, active character, not a passive one, for example, is good writing.
What?
Creating an emotionally active character versus a passive one is good writing.
Okay.
Said who?
You can have characters that are passive that are really well written.
Yeah.
I don't understand that argument at all.
Is he just talking about-
You can't-
I think he phrases it wrong.
Like he means like uninteresting characters are worse than interesting characters,
I think is his idea.
But passive and active are the wrong terms here.
People are saying I'm echoing.
Who am I echoing off?
Or is my just on my end?
And is that good or bad?
Waiting for chat to tell me how I'm echoing.
Do it!
Yeah.
I mean, you can't be echoing off me.
I'm on headset.
A little bit of echo.
I mean, there's only one source for my audio.
My end.
Kinda echoing, kind of.
All right, I'm gonna have to listen to it myself now.
Give me one second.
But I gotta hear this nonsense.
Make sure that it's not the true.
All right, I'm just gonna speak randomly for a little while.
Am I echoing?
Let's find out.
Make sure that it's not the true.
All right, I'm just gonna speak randomly for a little while.
Am I echoing?
Let's find out.
That doesn't sound like echo to me.
Sounds fine.
So all of you are wrong.
Destroyed.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, honestly, I just checked it.
I'm not hearing any echoes.
So chat beat the fuck up.
Yeah.
So anyway, uh, that was a weird random comment you just had about it.
See, I know I'm the long man, but when you say something like,
or get an active characters, better writing than passive was,
like, isn't that something worth, you know, qualifying?
Isn't that worth talking about?
If that's just something that Karl Marx is right.
Not a passive one, for example, is good writing.
This is what's been taught to us.
We've read it.
We've seen it.
It was never told that what I was.
Yeah, I don't know, man.
I've been taught something similar in reference to something else.
Like, say, for example, if you need a character that pushes the plot,
you need them to be active.
It's like, yeah, I was pretty much self-fulfilling.
But a character that is pro-active versus a passive one,
there's no, like, we don't get to determine which one is better.
Better is a weird, even to define everything.
It's a fucking four-bit video.
So I think we got a screw to that department.
And it's a wonder to see play out on screen, but this leads to the question.
Yeah, he really loves this video editor.
What if the world would love editing?
It's his passion.
We get it, motherfucker!
Stop!
Did y'all see how it appeared after the dormo?
Oh, shit.
I wanted to see what the quote was.
What was it?
Oh, did you say what was the other way around?
Okay.
Yeah, what if it was the other way around?
What if dizzying images were...
It's like, wait, why would you just define them as making the audience dizzy?
I don't think that's going to be preferable.
It's like, we think that these things are good,
but what if other things were good instead?
It's like, that they would be good in the scenario
that you've just defined things to be good.
What is the point of this analogy?
Murdoch said videos like these.
Like, what is actually the point of this analogy?
Murdoch said videos like these of Dabney have ruined the piano for me.
It's supposed to get you in the right feely mood.
Where the fuck would someone frown upon a long take
that's like expertly done?
That doesn't even make sense.
Like, yeah, people like this.
Criticize them for badaging to maintain your living world
for an X amount of time instead of cutting to different pieces of it.
In what world?
Like I said, if you had a long take
that was literally just a sandwich on a fucking table, then yeah.
But if we're talking about actual actors doing things,
then in what world are you going to say,
yeah, that one take was really badly done?
Long take better.
I mean, I don't know.
There's probably someone out there.
Some people would, maybe.
Movie critics.
We'd be living in a different world, wouldn't we?
Yes.
That's the thing.
Art is a byproduct.
You just said what, yes, we would be living in a different...
That was the point.
Yeah, it's like, what if we were living in a different world?
Explains thing.
You see?
We'd be living in a different world.
Yeah, but we're living in this one.
So let's talk about this one.
Times.
And we've been taught that this is good filmmaking.
But if we were living in an alternate world, that said...
He flipped it upside down.
He was so close to his mic.
He's talking softly.
He thinks he's the smartest dude in the fucking universe right now.
It's what we do though.
This is the most empty vapid shit.
As a video essayist, this is what's encouraged on YouTube
to reach the upper echelons.
Even though I think there's so many of them now,
it's actually really hard to get traction when you're just doing this.
I made fun of it in the fucking TFA videos.
It was soft spoken, fragile.
The music in the background is manipulative.
Under 10 minutes.
He's going a bit far with that.
Four minutes.
It's not...
Way under 10 minutes.
Yep.
That's just me.
The closer you are to just one second, the better.
I just love that he flips it upside down.
He's like, what if we lived in a different world?
It's like, did we just do the...
Okay, let's do that again.
We lived in a different world.
I was like, well, then...
We lived in a different world.
What if...
This was good filmmaking.
I don't know.
It's a different world.
What would we say in this world that we're...
I feel like he's just defined Transformers the last night,
2017, as bad filmmaking.
And I'm curious.
I'm like, wait, I'm sure people have criticisms of it
that go a little bit more beyond is bad film.
Like he's saying, it's like, our world is defined that this is bad.
It's like, well, I mean, there's probably some elements of it that are good.
There's probably maybe like some special effects in it
that are pretty good or maybe some of the actors
actually pulling something off.
I don't know.
But like...
There was a reason that when he talks about bad film,
he shows Transformers the last night and everybody goes along with that
and agrees and discuss why.
No.
Okay.
Well, that's the thing.
It reminds me of like how Chris Stuckman said he like,
watch Blade Runner a million times before he fucking liked it.
It's just because, yeah, he could...
He knows that it's considered good by most,
if not all film critics at this point.
So he's got to consider it good.
So he has to keep watching it until he does.
So he's got something to say as to why.
Otherwise you failed.
While me and Rags, certainly,
we have a lot of controversial takes that we really don't mind having.
Like, I didn't spoot a man or sit in Godzilla.
Sit in Wolfenstein.
Am I right, Rags?
Yeah.
My vision would be Yooka-Laylee.
I said that was good.
What everyone was saying.
It was bad.
Like, yeah, it doesn't really matter if the world is saying the last night is bad.
I haven't seen it.
My guess would be it's bad, but I don't know.
It could be good.
I mean, am I actually seeing a King Arthur style person
fighting a guy from like World War One or something?
What is happening there?
Oh my god.
I think it's just like that.
Okay.
Yeah, that's just how bad Michael Bay is.
Like, color grading, costumes.
You just...
Just fuck him.
Fuck him.
I should have...
I shouldn't think that's the fucking word.
We're working with a soldier.
It opened for anyone.
What do you think about art?
It was the Crusades.
Music's getting too loud, Brown Table.
I can't hear your pretentious voice.
Oh, I think there's a definite way of doing things
or at least some sort of way that...
Are there rules art should follow to be deemed great?
He wants this on like a plaque, doesn't he?
Are the rules art should follow to...
Probably, yeah.
I'd say so.
I'd say there's probably general rules.
Yeah.
Like, are you definitions for all of this?
What is the definition of art, rules, and great?
Yeah, especially what kind of art?
Like, is it just movies right now?
Because it says art slash film.
Which he covered in four minutes.
So are we talking about all kinds of art or now only film?
I guess all art now is always subjective
and it always depends on the viewer slash listener.
I'm sure he'll edit big enough text for us to clarify the whole thing, I'm sure.
This is the thing.
This isn't inherently disagreeable to most people.
This video is just, he's not saying anything.
He's being very weird and confusing and funny.
Or is art always subjective?
Any type of art.
Is it always subjective?
Oh.
Like, objectivity is just harder than that.
I get this sense like, oh, are you okay?
Like, oh, no.
You sound injured.
Is it subjective?
Do we need help?
Do we need to call somebody?
Are you trapped in your home?
Is this your...
Is someone forcing you to make these terrible videos?
Please, please, make these terrible videos.
Whether it be comics or fan fiction.
Oh, wait, wait.
He mentioned the fan fiction.
At least, at least this one was a bit more like normal.
Baby, I don't even know.
What is, that's a, that's a...
Is there a son of a woman in this?
Oh, yeah.
Well, she's got a blonde bit of hair, I guess.
I don't know who that is.
It's 354.
I don't even know what you're talking about.
Where's Mama and Papa Trails?
No, Mama and Papa Trails mirror pulled us in, and we are, and we were, I don't even know what the fuck.
Yeah, the, okay.
Can be deemed good by those who interpret it as such.
So let me know in the comments down below.
I can't say anything.
What was the point of this video?
What was the point?
Okay.
What was the whole fucking point of this video?
What did you say in this video?
But, well, I can't even like best faith interpretation.
He was like, it's all subjective, except it isn't.
Because we base it on our current climate slash environment slash society.
And we also can't replicate anything from other eras, which means it's all privatized to those eras.
Like, I don't know.
And that, should they have those rules within those eras, I guess?
Yeah, in conclusion, fuck you, brown table.
There we go.
I was going to say, I guess the conclusion on him hasn't changed.
We've got another one from him, the 24 hour one.
No, like many of those videos, like, there's so many bits and pieces you can just talk about
for fucking hours on end.
Yeah, but that's the thing.
If you're going to make a video exploring it, why not go into some of those things?
Instead of just being like, oh, it's subjective.
Maybe what do you guys think?
I don't know.
I guess just whatever you think it is.
I don't know, Karl Marx.
He said some stuff at some point.
I don't know.
Yeah, I went to marcis.com for this video essay.
I wanted a special shout out to marcis.com.
For only $5 a month, you can get your special Marx box so that every day you can use special
communist propaganda to deliver it straight to your door.
But you only get it if people didn't do the hours yet.
There's not going to be any food in there, so don't worry.
Oh, you know, someone just reminded me.
So apparently, have I asked this before?
Jay Longbone, which the Star Wars question have I asked you that before?
The Star Wars.
Like, which one?
The one about which character will be most inconsistent in episode nine.
Not that you really care.
Yeah, you didn't.
Yeah, you asked me that.
I think I said it was Finn.
Oh, did you?
Yeah, I didn't write it down.
That's bad on my part, but that is actually the same thing I voted for.
So, hey, not bad.
You know what?
If you didn't vote for that before, we'll just say you did this time and it'll be amended on
whatever subreddit slash.
Read, it's being monitored on, but good.
Yes.
Any particular reason?
Well, because they haven't done shit with his character.
He starts off as like this inexplicably eager and, you know, peppy child soldier, basically.
And then like in the second movie, he does jack shit.
He just hangs around this, you know, the fucking chick, the whole movie, and it does nothing.
And so I don't know what the hell they're going to do.
But maybe JJ Abrams will do something more with him.
I don't know.
But if he does, it's going to be probably out of out of left field completely.
I mean, in fairness, he did start fighting to defend what he loves instead of attacking
what he hates.
So he's come a long way.
OK, racist.
I just like my whole my whole thing with this character, I'm really passionate about how
they fuck this character.
I was going to make a whole video dedicated to it because there's a certain way his character
should have been written.
And I'm just so I'm just pissed off about how they botched him because he could have
been a great character.
Yeah, I agree.
We've lamented about fit many times on this podcast.
It could have been awesome.
Also, for people wondering, metal commander has answered this question.
He chose Luke.
That is correct.
I remember this.
His reasoning is that he hates Mark Hamill and everything he's in.
It was very controversial thing to say.
It's true, though.
Yeah.
You see his face.
He's like ugly as shit.
Oh, geez.
Just chill.
You say that on live TV.
What we live?
We're good.
He's like, it's like a great Mark Hamill official in chat.
It's like, so what's what are you guys talking about?
First off, wow.
Of course, it's the German guy who's spreading out the hate there.
We're like, oh, the German, the German, yeah.
Oh, nice.
Now say a German word for the audience.
Your face looks like a rotten strudel.
There you go.
Nice.
It was me.
Um, so, yeah, the next video, as is the title, we're on point today.
Everything is getting done the way it should be, apparently.
I guess it's because of the fact we just covered a four minute video,
which is one of the shortest I think we've ever covered on eFav.
So not bad.
The Star Wars original trilogy sucks.
You guys know that?
Why not say the original Star Wars trilogy sucks?
Because I mean, it looks like we're going to be downgrading in general from brown tables.
Like this is the other end of the spectrum where there is no pretentiousness.
It's just sort of crapple.
So it's good.
Yes, actually.
I prefer this kind of thing instead of the other end of the spectrum of brown table is good.
Non pretentious is kind of where I was going with that.
But yeah, um, and the prequels are better.
That's why is there a, um, why is there a speaker?
Symbol on both of his head.
Yeah, that's the same thing that sees.
So everyone thought his voice came out of his little mouthpiece thing,
but it actually comes out of the top of his head.
It gives the illusion that he's taller.
And, uh, yeah, the awkward thing was that he used to have that plastered on for helpful,
you know, so people knew where to listen, but everyone kept laughing at him.
So they took it off him.
Um, and this was, this was pre a new hope.
You know, this was like, this was like just post return revenge.
Well, we think it's a speaker.
It could be like a shower head.
Yeah.
If he doesn't like you, he just squirts water like a shower.
She will clean up the umpire.
It's literally sprays to his left.
Whenever there was a meeting, the person sitting to his left would always be like,
Oh, fuck.
I can't control it.
Well, why do you have it?
Pardon my show.
I got it at space.
Home Depot.
It was a steal.
I thought it was just like a pretentious snapback from the Yeezy collection.
I don't think we can rule anything out.
Yeah.
Might just be a light.
Yep.
A lot of potential here.
You know, I didn't design.
Also, also, it could be very loud soup.
Loud soup.
I never seen soup.
I never seen soup served in a funnel.
Also, Jesus Christ, the the fucking imagine that as a soup bowl.
That's so easy to tip over.
Why is it like this?
And they're like, well, George, it's a space one space soup.
And it's very loud.
That's what the lines mean.
Oh, I gotta I gotta collect something quickly.
Someone's made a meme already.
A may may.
If you're definitely a may may.
I have my business.
Jumping around on Discord channels.
What is this?
What makes rat good?
Oh, my God.
It actually reminds me that scene.
Oh, demolition, man.
So much as slow as eating that rat.
What makes rat.
Such a strange question.
It's like, first of all, we need to talk about the premise of the question.
Okay, this is the one I think I was at it with Twitter.
Guys, put it on Twitter, even though you probably already have what I'm getting there.
I don't know.
That's great.
Oh, is that Judy always got got got pretty excited there for a second, huh?
That rat is not there.
I thought he said, Oh, yeah, chopsticks.
That is an adult female rat.
This is the thing.
She's a good rat.
So you got to figure out what makes her a good rat.
She's a good rat.
I love the idea, by the way, that they copied that from his video.
They didn't even have to, like, make it up.
He's a good rat.
I don't know why that's so funny.
Yeah, she's a she's a good rat.
That is the post earnest possible way.
The best good ass rat right there.
The most non insulting way possible.
It's a good rat.
Best rat I read.
That other means is what makes good rat less than an explanation of op theories.
I just rename Ratatouille what makes good rat.
So yeah, so anyway, the OT sucks and the prequels are better.
All of us here have seen those films, right?
We've all been blessed and cursed.
Yes.
Yes.
Not super recently, to be honest.
Yes, of course.
We did have a discussion.
Not a discussion on the the speaker on his head, right?
I think we've covered that.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
It was important.
I just wanted to wait.
You mean the soup?
The loud soup plays out the loud soup.
Yeah.
Well, the bright soup either one.
It could be very bright.
He eats lava, of course.
It is light producing soup.
It is space glowing space.
Oh, Jesus.
I'm gonna have to boost.
That's how he eats.
That's how that's how Darth Vader eats is he pours space soup into the top of his head.
Really embarrassing.
He does it between movies.
Oh, wait, there's precedence for that in Star Wars because in the holiday special,
there was that one guy who poured the drink into his head to drink it.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, I remember that.
Oh, my God.
It's actually Darth Vader at the.
It's supported in the lore.
Anyway, yeah, he's really quiet.
So I've had to boost him with my browser thing.
I recommend everyone have that if you can't hear him.
Well, everyone on stream will be able to hear him.
I hope you guys.
Greetings, YouTube.
Remarkable Republican here to bring remarkable Republicans.
Yeah, his name is Remarkable Republican.
Okay.
The truth with truth flavored bias.
We'll see how.
Remarkable you are.
Long standing fanfare of fans across the world.
The fact remains again.
Wait, it's stuck for me.
It's six.
Oh, I'll let me if you drag it back.
Oh, I will reload.
Can you tell me what the.
The ad is to boost because it's really low.
You remember the name of the race.
Chrome volume boost.
I actually haven't put it on mine.
I think mine's called sound booster that works.
Literally, that's the same sound booster that works here.
I just found that one.
There's there's a bunch of different ones you could use.
Oh, yeah, I used volume booster.
It has a little slider.
I got the sound that works.
You know, mine fucking works.
The long standing fanfare of fans across the world.
The fact remains the Star Wars original trilogy sucks.
And is, in fact, inferior to the prequels.
Oh, this guy.
Okay.
His accent is making me laugh.
Wait, I'm just I'm just I'm flawed.
I'm flawed at the premise.
That's all.
During this.
I feel like I feel like I know what this person looks like based on their voice.
That's that's an ist of some kind.
We're going to wear those gas station sunglasses backwards.
It's like he works at a gas station.
And this is what he discusses with people coming in to buy stuff.
All right.
Did you know the original Star Wars trilogy sucks?
You'll see the prequel movies.
Did you see what?
I just want my jerky.
Oh, yeah, I just want five on number two.
Yeah.
And Jenna pointed out that our four icons are essentially reacting to a thing
in very different ways.
But we thought, you know, there's a whole story there.
Like I see a thing.
I want to fuck it.
It's Vader with space soup.
Like how could that not have asked for eggs in general?
You ever stick your dick in soup?
No, I've not done that myself.
You ever stuck your dick in someone else's soup and not told them?
I'm starting to think that you have you ever started someone's soup with your dick.
Yes.
Presentation.
I will give you 10 general reasons why the Star Wars original trilogy sucks.
And by extension, why episode seven, which is the true
air of the original trilogy will also most likely suck ass.
Is this like a PowerPoint presentation?
He's looking through the empty auditorium, the volume, the whole thing through the
soup uses his force powers to project the loud soup on.
Looks like.
I just like playing music.
Anybody turn it off.
No, I will not turn it off.
Luke feels the force.
You get like a lot of speakers like air and just falls down.
What's wrong, Luke?
You look a little hungry.
It is my duty as your father to feed you.
I why don't you pick up the spoon?
Oh yeah, that's right.
You don't have a hand.
That is such a dick.
Oh, very unfortunate.
We got number one.
Plot continuity.
Darth Vader's status.
It took 20 years to half build the Death Star.
Empires hierarchy in constant flux.
Luke and Leia kiss it a kiss.
What the fuck?
He sounds like a person who wouldn't have any problem with kissing your sister.
Oh, that's cool.
I shouldn't say that.
I shouldn't say that, but I can because I'm going to say you're allowed to say that.
I am allowed to say that.
All right, I guess let's hear them out.
Plots that make sense and carry over from movie to movie if they're part of a trilogy.
Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings does just that.
Things that happen in one movie continue into the other.
The Star Wars original trilogy has nothing of that sort.
Basically, there are some major contradictions between the different movies.
You say it has nothing of that sort?
Yeah, nothing of that sort.
So I'll take some stuff from episode four.
Sort of moves on into episode five.
Do you guys disagree with that?
I don't know.
I don't know, man.
And then equally some stuff from episode five moves into episode six.
Because I know at the beginning of episode six, I'm like, who's this little green man?
Who's who's the big slug guy?
Hmm?
Who is the big slug guy?
Why is Han Solo in that Lego brick?
Exactly.
To be honest, it makes no sense.
Someone's just alerted me to the fact that this man has a video called Tywin Lannister homosexual.
I want to see that.
And it is spelled phonetically.
Homosexual.
Tywin Lannister is a homosexual.
I like the idea that he just says Tywin Lannister, full stop homosexual.
Okay.
And Tywin would be like, yes, and problem.
Kill that man.
One is Darth Vader's rank and status.
We'll talk about that more when we get to Vader.
But basically, the deal is he goes from being some sort of mechanical robot enforcer to being.
Those aren't contradictory.
Okay, a lot of people bring this up.
So the idea is that he's taken orders from Tarkin, or at least he respects Tarkin's authority.
And then in the next movie, he seems to be in control of everything
that's not Emperor.
You know, he's just under the Emperor.
Like, those things don't contradict if we go by the fact that Tarkin's in charge of
the Death Star.
Tarkin's really high up.
He's in charge of the Death Star.
It's like when you're like a big deal.
You feel like a general and you go on to like an army general that goes on to like an admiral's
ship.
I'm pretty sure the admiral outranks, right?
I don't know enough about this.
You know, there is I know, I don't know how it is in lesser military, but in the greatest
military in the world, we have four different tiers of general.
There's Brigadier General, Lieutenant General, Major General, not in order.
It's from lowest to highest.
It's Brigadier General, Major General, Lieutenant General.
And then there's General.
So there's four levels of being a general.
Well, point being.
So one general can order other generals around, I guess.
Yeah.
The point is you can be a bigman while also being underneath other bigmans.
It's not like just a king in literally everyone else's peasant.
And some people have highlighted, which is very fair.
Tarkin died.
So yeah, the slot opened up if it was a slot.
So what I'm saying here is even if Vader's role changed, would it not make sense that
his role could have changed?
I don't know how much time there is between episode four and five.
I think it's three years.
So no, when a general dies, you can never replace him.
That's just it.
We had our shot, but that's how the games played at the general dies.
And just we don't, you know, we get one last one less general.
Yeah.
Like I said, though, there's got someone's going to know way more about this than I do.
But whoever's like the highest rank for like foot soldiers and whoever's the highest rank for like
the the the the the sea people.
That's the respectful way to refer to them.
And then see people.
Dolphins.
And then so you see people ground people, air people.
They all have different bosses.
And I imagine that when they don't necessarily outrank each other or outrank each other,
it's just about authority in different environments, if that makes some sense.
And what I'm trying to say is that Vader is like, sure, he's number two to the emperor,
but talking was in control of whatever happens on the death start.
The death what's they step on to land?
You have no power here.
There's got to be something like that.
I imagine that's how it works to some degree.
I'm just not I'm not an army man.
I'm not a seaman.
Anyway, let's let's go on.
Technical robot enforcer to being some sort of Sith Lord to being Luke's pussy ass, emotional dad.
What?
I've never I've never heard Vader described as such.
All right.
Pussy ass, emotional.
Okay.
Literally fucking kills his boss by throwing his corpse while
bodied down a fucking hole and electrocuted himself to death.
Pussy ass.
If you told me to describe Darth Vader in one word,
emotional, pussy ass.
That's that's one word because it's hyphenated.
Yeah, pussy hyphen ass.
Okay.
Interesting chopsticks being some sort of Sith Lord to being Luke's pussy ass,
emotional dad, and there's not really a lot of continuity in his character.
What do you mean?
You haven't highlighted a single break in continuity.
Yeah, I like the idea of really fucking rags.
One day he's a YouTuber.
The next day he's a podcaster.
Make up your fucking mind.
Yeah, no continuity at all.
You push the ass.
Puffer one podcast.
He has this icon and then the next he has his other icon.
Makes no fucking sense.
Doesn't make any sense.
So we know that Death Star was designed back during the Old Republic,
but for whatever reason, it took 20 years to half build it.
That's not very impressive.
You know how fucking big it is.
It was literally mistaken for a moon.
What does he mean?
20 years to half build.
Is he referring to?
Oh, so at the end of Revenge of the Sith, we see that they're building it.
And so he's saying that from there to a new hope,
that's how long it took for them to complete it.
Now, there's a lot of things that you have to consider,
not just whether or not I'll explain this in terms of like,
if you're building a brand new massive piece of technology,
getting all the parts in place could be one thing.
The software could be the other part, you know,
getting everything so that because I'm pretty sure
they test the Death Star for the first time in a new hope,
like the laser itself, like it's finally functional.
That probably took a while to get working.
That might have been the thing that delayed them the most.
Well, you're building an object that floats in space can support.
God knows how many hundreds of thousands of potential people
can destroy planets and is the size of a moon.
You have to build that.
It would take if someone said it would take I would expect
something like that to take hundreds of years to build.
The point is, we've not been given anything
that highlights a contradiction.
We've only been told it took this long to get it to here.
And then it took this long to get another one.
And then it's just like, oh, so it took a longer amount of time
to make it the first time than it did the second time.
You're like, yep.
Hmm.
It doesn't seem like a contradiction.
I don't know.
Not only is the Death Star half built,
it looks like a pushed in titty nipple.
My sister's titty nipple don't look nothing like that.
This shit are realistic.
I mean, you ain't just going to draw one boob.
You're going to do two boobs.
Also, I just yeah, if we if we add in Rogue One,
that's when it's first tested.
That's when it's first tested.
But also, it would make sense.
The guy, what were the protagonist skills?
Dad, he would have delayed it as much as possible
when he was a Goodman.
So it would make sense that it took longer.
I don't know.
I'm just putting it out there.
We've got reasons to assume this makes sense.
IMO.
Soup is large.
Yeah, I don't know.
We don't know what they're capable of building
and how quickly they can do it.
We just don't know.
I don't think we have enough information
to see a contradiction here.
That's all.
Yeah.
And given the resources of the Empire and technology,
it doesn't seem like it should take that long.
Tell us.
Look, even if you had unlimited resources,
the process of assembling it all together.
And then as for the second one,
we don't even know if they'd started building that
when the first one was active.
Yeah.
Why not have two death stars?
Seems pretty cool to me.
I don't know if they have a line for that or not,
but it would be neat to be like the backup deaths.
No, you've got to reveal it.
I'll do that.
Also, the Empire's hierarchy is in constant flux.
It's not really clear who's in charge of what.
See again, Darth Vader.
What do you mean?
The Emperor is in charge of everything.
There's in charge of everything.
Vader is number two,
and Tarkin was in charge of the death star.
And then everyone else based on their clothing,
he's either a stormtrooper or control stormtroopers.
Yeah, you're either enlisted or you're an officer
or they have ranks.
They have like majors and things.
It's pretty straightforward.
It's a military.
It's like you have to have ranks of people giving orders
and there's a chain of command.
Yeah.
Yeah, they have the little insignias
with the blue and the red squares on them.
They have an admiral because of Piet,
I think was an admiral.
And you get, I think they mentioned captains at one point.
So yeah, they've definitely,
I don't think they ever contradict anything.
Like I said, Grand Moff is the ranking obviously for Tarkin
and apparently that's a real rank as well.
And it's really high up.
It sounds goofy.
I'll agree with that.
But reality can be goofy.
I ain't no shitty Moff.
And then Luke and Leia, of course,
made out in the first movie.
Later we learned that they're supposed to be brother and sister.
Great planning there, guys.
Great.
That's not breaking continuity.
They didn't know this.
Yeah, they didn't know.
It's not that how,
why would anyone assume that some,
you're Luke, right?
Let's say you're Luke.
You were raised as a fucking water farmer
on some backwater desert planet
and then you rescue the princess of a far away world.
And why would you assume that you are related?
I don't want to kiss you.
You might be my sister.
You might be my sister.
Yeah.
That's not, I like the idea that he said that.
He's like, wait, you can't be brother and sister.
You kissed.
Uh, let me sit you down, Johnny.
One of those points I'm seeing on my screen right now.
Oh, shit.
We moved on to the next thing.
Hang on.
If your father went in to disown you,
he has to make out with you.
Later we learned that they're supposed
to be brother and sister.
Great planning there, guys.
Great.
WTF.
What?
Mark how, what the fuck are you?
I love these points.
I love these points.
Mark Hamill looks like an SP.
Mark Hamill looks like an SP.
I'm not letting you.
Raging out the hole.
There is not.
Carrie Fisher, raging alcoholic.
Raging alcoholic.
Not leading us far away because I would have mentioned
the cocaine before the news.
But he looks like a lesbian.
Luke, one boy who likes gadgets,
so basically Fred from Scooby-Doo.
He's probably a homosexual who likes the gay gang.
That's why I always had to team up with Daphne
because he was a homo.
What the hell are these points?
This is so bullshit.
This proves that the prequels are bad.
I can't.
Yo, the OT's Mark Hamill gay.
He's just a baby.
He's just a baby lesbian.
Oh, Jesus.
That's amazing.
You spell Hamill wrong as well.
Also, he has the icon.
Not leading actress hot.
It's supposed to be very loud when you read it.
Right.
No, Rags, just the N and the O and the T itself.
Not leading actress.
I'm part of Fisher as well.
Before he speaks, Mark Hamill looks like a lesbian.
He's not athletic and he has no charisma.
Apparently, if you say those things, that makes it true.
Carrie Fisher can't act.
She's a raging alcoholic and she's not leading actress hot.
So there are degrees of heart she didn't make it up to that tier, unfortunately.
Damn.
What a shame.
And then back to Luke.
He's a farm boy who likes gadgets.
So he's basically Fred from Scooby-Doo.
I've not ever heard that criticism of Luke.
So that's a new one for me.
And then Leia obsessed with faux bad boys.
Princess of a dead planet.
What?
What?
No force powers.
Okay.
I guess he must like the last Jedi then.
This is one of the most galling problems of the original trilogy.
These people are real, though.
Yeah.
These people are real, by the way, Chad.
This is a real video.
Someone made this.
Two of our main characters, please.
Also, we can confirm.
He can count to two, so.
Hey, in Roman numerals.
Good job.
No, no, no, no, no.
It's just one in one or two.
Oh, you, uh, you dropped out again, right?
He don't.
He does.
He doesn't know about Roman numerals.
It's just that's just one in one.
Makes two to put another one after the first one.
That's two.
And one would have wanted it to.
Or there's like a one and a one together.
That's that makes two.
What's what's a three numbers work?
Well, that's what you put a big numbers.
They so long.
Another one.
And yeah, it seems to have dropped you from the.
There you go.
Oh, oh.
Calling problems of the original trilogy
is that two of our main characters are Luke and Leia.
Luke, of course, is played by Mark Hamill.
He's a guy who looks like a middle aged lesbian.
He has no athleticism.
He has no charisma.
Why middle aged lesbian?
I don't know.
I'd say he's younger than middle aged.
Why he doesn't look like a lesbian.
Not athletic.
I don't know.
He doesn't seem he seems fairly athletic.
I mean, yeah, he's not like ripped.
He's you know, he's in good shape, I guess.
Bouncing around in every movie.
Yeah, yeah, man.
No charisma.
I don't agree with that.
And then as for Carrie Fisher, she can't really act.
She's a raging alcoholic and she's just not leading actors hot.
I'm not.
Wow.
He just read that out one for one didn't even.
OK, for one thing, Carrie Fisher is a raging coke addict.
Get it right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fucked up to misrepresent like that.
Yeah.
Coke addicts rise.
They have their own damn their own dove campaign crack rock.
They have like a flag to run.
It's like a nose with no bridge.
I'm not saying she's unattractive.
I'm just saying that she's not leading actors.
Such a fucking neck being comment.
She's not hot enough for me.
I think that if you're going to cast somebody in this position,
she needs to be as hot as what I would like.
Important to me.
I think you know you can figure out what I mean by that.
She's like the friend of the hot actors.
She's not really the hot.
The dude broke piece of shit.
I'd love him to say that to her in person.
Like, you know what she would have said.
That's hard.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, maybe it's more applicable now.
Fucking her grave and dig her up.
Like you're not you're not leading actress hot.
I'm just I'm just saying.
You're like the hot.
That's the best friend hot.
You know what I'm saying?
Makes complete sense.
You ain't as hot as my sister.
As for the characters themselves, Luke, he's basically a farm boy.
He likes gadgets.
So he's not really that different than Fred from Scooby-Doo.
How's that bad?
What the fuck is wrong with Fred Scooby-Doo motherfucker?
But Fred didn't look like a lesbian, was athletic.
And I don't know, I guess he don't care.
Okay.
Fred from Scooby-Doo is a fucking saint.
When did Fred like gadgets?
I was actually going to say.
Why is the mystery mobile?
Was that his thing?
I don't remember.
What was what was Fred's thing?
Was he did he have a thing?
He was just getting big.
I don't remember.
I just picture him now like a series of computers with like a like a thing.
We can't go into that mansion.
It's emitting an alpha signal.
He drove the mystery machine.
That's what he did.
He got them to the mystery.
That was his.
Does it count as liking gadgets if you can drive a car?
He was just the jock.
He was the leader.
He was strong.
He was athletic.
Yeah.
He liked it.
Okay.
He was the only normal person.
Oh, he builds overly complicated traps, apparently.
Oh.
Oh, yeah, he does.
Oh, when the ghost comes around the corner, they'll hit the trip wire.
And that'll trigger the net and stuff like that.
Yeah.
All right.
I have to rewatch this show.
Why do we hate Fred?
You just like Fred.
He's like, oh, that's not so bad.
He's a sexual mauler.
He wears that scarf around his neck.
It's an ascot.
Exactly.
It's an ass cop.
You're like watching.
It's an ass cop.
You're a cock in ass.
He's a fag.
They go like, I don't know.
I was going to say, you're watching it with him.
He sees the ascot.
He's like, that's pretty gay.
I don't know.
Pretty gay might be a lesbian.
Pretty lesbian-ish.
And he doesn't really have a compelling character.
He's just basically the hero.
There are a lot of video game characters with a lot more depth than most characters.
A lot of video game characters with more depth.
All right.
I guess.
And as for Leia, she kind of has this obsession with faux bad boys.
And why is that a bad thing?
I love being a bad boy.
I want him to pound my ass.
What about faux bad boys?
Oh, well.
Yeah, I guess you don't know at first.
Then you figure it out later.
Yeah, this guy created that TikTok.
You're not really a bad boy.
You're a good boy.
You created TikTok.
But I'm a good boy.
This guy created that TikTok meme.
So why do good girls like that guy?
And she's a princess, but her planet is destroyed.
So why does she keep using the title princess?
Sorry, you're going to have to turn in your badge.
Your planet got blown up.
Imagine they call princess Leia.
What are we doing?
Some guy's like, excuse me.
Her planet was destroyed.
Can you please stop?
She's not a princess anymore.
Don't refer to this anymore.
And she's like, wow, that happened recently.
I mean, could you maybe could be not talking about these?
Like, yes, but, you know, officially.
Words have to mean something, Leia.
We're going to have to confiscate your buns.
Sorry.
I don't even.
Is that how that works, by the way?
If you're like an entire family were killed when you were currently the princess
and they took you away from the throne or whatever,
would you therefore not be a princess?
If your wife dies, are you still a husband?
I don't know if it works that way.
But yeah, my question stands.
If your children die, are you still a father?
If Earth was destroyed, we still be humans of Earth or be humans of.
Would I still be like, would I still be a citizen of the US if Earth got destroyed?
I guess not.
Goodbye, US citizenship.
Well, royalty is oftentimes like a blood thing.
Like it's it's like the royal family.
It's not indicated on whether or not you're something.
It's that you have royal blood in your veins.
That means you are royal.
It's like like the long lost royal, I don't know,
heir to the throne or whatever that they have to find.
Is it?
Yeah, they're not actually ruling with their royalty because of the lineage.
What do you think?
I think Marx would say about this.
He would be he would say down with the down with the bourgeois.
I think I think he had a thing for Leah.
Oh, Marx and most lame of all, even though Luke is a Jedi and apparently it runs in families,
she doesn't have any force powers.
So she's kind of did you not see the movie at the at the end of the third movie?
Well, she uses you don't have the force.
You're useless.
But in episode six, Luke says to her that power is in you, too.
Yeah, like the idea being that you need to do more than just be a Skywalker.
Like for all we knew, if she tried really hard,
she could probably move like a leaf on a tree at that point.
Also, she did use the force in episode five.
Talk to Luke through the force.
Yeah, I can sense them.
Yeah.
The character who are morally ambiguous, but not edgy.
Okay, the past scene goes nowhere.
They literally leave.
They literally go to the spaceport.
He's like one of the best pilots ever.
What the fuck?
Did he did he expect the bar to go with them?
He's like, all right, pack it up.
We're going to the Millennium Falcon, everybody.
Affiliation is obvious.
He doesn't have an affiliation.
Yeah, not the beginning.
He's like a big.
Yeah, like this mudwire.
Millennium Falcon.
That's just a that's just a bullet point.
Yes.
Yes, and yes, Chewbacca.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's let's hear these out.
A lot of people like to associate with, but nobody can really justify is Han Solo.
The problem with him, as I see it, is that while he is morally ambiguous,
that's not enough to make him edgy.
He's not really that cool.
Oh, OK.
Fucking the master of cool over here is going to tell us that Leia isn't hot.
Luke isn't cool, or he's a lesbian and neither is Han Han Solo's fucking shit.
I'm way better than Han Solo.
That should have been me.
This was the review we needed.
He does things that should be cool.
Just isn't partly what the fuck am I listening to?
Like what like what thing does he do that's supposed to be cool, but isn't even weak
because he's got a half mullet going on.
No, he doesn't have a mullet going on.
How does someone who sounds like you not properly identify a mullet?
He's not cool.
Now this guy shaved completely bald like like stone cold Steve Austin.
You know, he is.
Oh, we have to add a disorderly best Fred Hart.
Yes.
Yeah, this is this is this has been a thing.
People make these videos like I just never get over that.
And again, it should be like a lesson in PowerPoint.
Yes, the problem is that scene ends too early and doesn't go anywhere.
We never see any other hunters coming after Han Solo in the middle of battles with the Empire.
Fuck you talking about Boba Fett comes after him during the fight with the Empire.
Fuck.
Why does he keep doing that?
It just doesn't play for me.
They all reload.
We never see any of the hunters come after us.
Like what about the one that comes after him specifically?
What about the part where he gets fucking frozen?
Hold up.
What time is it for you?
I had to I need to reload here again.
I've rolled it back to 325.
It should be.
All right.
Here we go.
Okay.
Yes.
The problem is that scene ends too early and doesn't go anywhere.
We never see any other hunters coming after Han Solo in the middle of battles with the Empire.
There should have been more hunters coming after him.
We got like seven and one of them succeeded.
What does he want?
Does he say that they had to all come from fucking Mos Eisley Cantina at the same time?
Yes, they all had to arrive at the exact same time and then fight each other to get to Han.
At a big bar scene fight.
I think the movie needed some ninjas.
Some super human zombie ninjas to kick Han Solo in his half-mullet ass.
Some robot ninjas.
The quality of a film can be assessed directly by the ratio of space ninjas to minutes.
But what makes a rat good?
Y'all ever had rat on a stick?
Need some sushi ninjas.
Which would make that scene.
You ever have rat sushi?
Have you not?
Slathered in mayonnaise.
I love me some mayonnaise sushi rat on a stick.
Love me some mayonnaise.
Some people prefer Miracle Whip on their sushi stick rat.
Guess what a lesbian would say.
Only a homosexual would put ketchup on your sushi stick rat.
This is a man that appreciates cuisine, okay?
Solo in the middle of battles with the Empire.
Which would make that scene make sense.
But as it is, it's a killing that he commits without any consequences.
So it doesn't establish-
Well, what a lawless place my sizely must be.
Maybe like a den of scum and villainy.
So he's sad that him killing Greedo didn't result in something bad happening to Han Solo, I guess.
Like, you know how Jabba keeps increasing the rates on which you'll get rewarded if you capture him?
Like, because he not only has not paid him, but he also apparently killed one of the bounty
hunters sent to collect.
So that to me is a consequence.
It's not labeled directly.
There is no line that says, hey, because you killed Greedo, we're going to be meaner to you.
But I think the fact that Jabba's trying to kill him still or collect him is enough of a consequence.
And even if there was no consequence to it, it would follow that there wouldn't be,
because it was previously established by Obi-Wan that must sizely is a pretty lawless place.
And besides, Greedo doesn't, like, work for Jabba in any more than Han does, right?
Because they're all just bounty hunters or smugglers or whatever.
Yeah, I don't work for him.
Like, if you contract him to go and collect Han's shit and he dies, it's like, well, rip that guy.
I'll descend another guy.
It's like, you know, I don't know that he works for Jabba directly, but yeah, whatever.
That's nice.
Also, he has no real special skills.
He can fly.
He can shoot.
But so can everybody.
So can everybody.
He has no skills.
He can fly and shoot.
That sounds important in Star Wars.
Sorry, what did he say?
I was just.
He said he has no skills.
Yeah, you can fly and shoot, but so can everyone.
I don't even know.
I don't even know what to say.
Like, yeah.
So not everyone can shoot.
Well, case in point.
Fucking stormtroopers.
Not everyone can fly.
Leia.
I don't think we ever see Leia pilot anything ever.
Um.
He was hired specifically for his ability to pilot and smuggle.
So yeah, I'm going to have to go ahead and hit the disagree button on that one.
Averse even Chewbacca, the walking carpet can do that.
Okay.
His affiliation is.
It makes sense that a partner to somebody who's a smuggler would be able to shoot guns and fly
spaceships.
I like that he says it in such a like fucking racist way.
The fucking walking carpet can do it.
Like dude.
And he's the co-pilot.
He's the co-pilot.
Why would the co-pilot be able to fly?
That's dumb.
I suppose it's just yeah, just press buttons.
Somebody sent me something.
I'm looking at it right now.
I'm going to be worth my time.
Oh, the chilling beta throw loud soup at Luke.
It's just the icon, but it was worth it.
Wait, how long is this thing?
It's just the fucking icon.
Everything he throws at him.
I like it.
Beautiful.
Anyway, it's the problem with trying to portray him as a rogue.
We always know he's going to be a rebel because the dude is clearly an outlaw from the empire.
He can't join the empire.
When it makes sense, he'd get arrested and executed.
What the fuck did he just say?
Did you hear that?
He executed?
He's an outlaw.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know if he's smuggling.
I swear, that was a collection of statements that didn't follow.
I need to hear that again.
Um, his affiliation is obvious.
That's the problem with trying to portray him as a rogue.
We always know he's going to be a rebel because the dude is clearly an outlaw.
So it's obvious that he's always going to be a rebel,
even though he joins up with the rebels.
Like, but like he wasn't before, I guess, I guess he's,
he's saying it was obvious he was never going to be a bad guy.
Like the, like the empire, when the whole point of the film was,
was he going to help the good guys?
Or was he just going to get paid for his job?
He's a neutral party.
It was never going to be that he was going to join the empire.
At least not from fucking what I saw in the film.
I guess not from this perspective, no.
The big moment is will he leave with his money and sort his own life out?
Or will he stay and help the rebels he's come to love work against the horrible empire?
Outlaw from the empire.
He can't join the empire.
When it makes sense, he'd get arrested and executed.
Yeah, you're right.
It wouldn't make any sense for him to join the empire when he's a fucking smuggler.
Who do you think he's smuggling under?
It's the empire's literal control of the universe.
Yeah, wouldn't make any sense to join the empire as a smuggler.
Aragorn is a shitty character because he didn't join.
Why do we never have to worry that he joined Sauron?
I'd be like, well, Aragorn wasn't.
Who's the rebel of Lord of the Rings, exactly?
Who's the edgy, morally ambiguous character?
Gollum.
He's the Hunsolo of Lord of the Rings.
I've been waiting for a while.
Gollum is the Hunsolo of Lord of the Rings.
I like it.
The truth.
He can shoot and he can fly.
I'm just like, that would suck if you roll your character in Lord of the Rings
and you get like a 10 on driving spaceships.
You're like, fuck.
I was thinking as well.
I was wrong earlier.
I said we'd never see Leia fly anything.
She flies herself.
He flies in space.
Feel bad that I've misrepresented the narrative.
So he has no choice but to be a rebel.
So there's not really any drama there.
There's not a buildup.
There's no tension.
So the drama is whether or not he'll abandon the rebels.
It's not whether or not he'll join the empire.
That's anybody.
I honestly wonder if anybody thought Han was going to join the empire during the film.
Was that ever a thing?
I don't remember ever thinking that.
His ship, the Millennium Falcon, has become sort of symbolic,
but it's really just a freighter and a piece of shit.
Wait, what?
It's just a freighter and a piece of shit?
So pieces of shit can be symbolic.
It's not contradictory.
He's just repeated lines from the fucking film, by the way.
He's like, what a piece of junk is what Luke says.
The point is that he's a smuggler.
So why not use a ship that is fucking inconspicuous sort of thing?
And he's also modded the shit out of it.
Because it used to belong to Lando as well.
This is a ship that looks like shit, but it's not shit.
Yeah.
I don't even know what the hell he's trying to say.
How could you even say it's shit after everything it goes through in the three movies, anyway?
It's like, yeah, it's so shit.
It was involved in killing two death stars.
It's like evaded the entire empire, like seven star destroyers of shit.
It shouldn't be something that should be surviving these battles.
It is not on the same level as like a TIE fighter.
How do you know that?
What do you mean it's not on the same level?
It looks like it's more armor than a TIE fighter.
Well, there's a thing.
It's more weapons than a TIE fighter, I'm sure.
Supposed to like move cargo with it, so it needed to be like strong and dense.
And so it makes sense that it could be able to take some damage.
Yeah.
And then, you know, the the the shooters of the whatever weapons it has on it,
which again are probably modded.
Two turrets.
Um, it's dependent on the aim of the people using them.
Like I said, he's a walking carpet.
He's a waste of a character.
He's just supposed to be.
Fantastic arguments.
Chewbacca sucks his walking carpet.
You're literally using quotes from the film.
All right.
Like the big dog that, you know, kids can buy a toy of and pet
if their parents want to allow them to have like a great day.
You can buy a toy of him there for you.
Shit.
What the hell?
This is this is the argument Quentin said Rags was making.
This is the one that was like, no, we don't say this, but apparently other people do.
Aim.
No one.
What the hell is my telling riddles in irrelevant in two out of three movies?
He's dead.
He's not a Jedi Jedi who's battle shy.
That's the point.
Yeah, Jedi's are not fucking warriors.
Well, guardians are protectors.
They only use violence if they need to battle.
Trains by telling Riddle.
Oh my God, this is going to be great.
I would say that Obi-Wan Kenobi is the worst character in Star Wars.
Obviously that has to be C3PO the gay robot.
Just save us time and let us know what characters aren't gay.
He has to specify their sexuality.
I don't know, man.
Well, I just see those thick golden legs.
That's why they call them golden legs because he's a fucking robot.
Were you watching the films with him?
Whatever C3PO is on this grade.
He's like sweating and you're like, what's up, dude?
He's like, oh, nothing, nothing.
That's C3PO.
He's like, hello.
Be back, demon.
You know, C3PO's British accent is kind of sexy.
No homo.
Satan's trying to tempt me.
Be gone, Satan robot.
I will not fall prey to your temptation.
Oh, Lordy.
Thank you.
No one would say that Obi-Wan Kenobi is the worst character in Star Wars.
Obviously that has to be C3PO the gay robot butler.
But Obi-Wan is pretty terrible.
So for the character to work, he needs to be a Jedi who actually fights.
But the thing is Obi-Wan is too old to fight.
And because he's too old, not only does that not make sense with the age we know him at
from the prequels, but also how would that not make sense?
What?
30 years, add it on to a 30-year-old, and push them to 60.
You think so?
I think.
I don't know.
This guy, like I said, he's-
Listen, math are hards.
Dude, you think he knows Roman numerals, but he doesn't.
He just pushed the last two together into one V.
And he was like, does that have four?
I don't know.
It makes no sense to me.
To be fair, I can't tell the difference between four and six.
It's one.
The way we lived in school is if it's before it takes away, if it's after it adds on.
Yeah, I keep forgetting that.
Old actually fights.
It was totally useless.
And-
Wow, if you're not fighting, you're useless.
Well, apparently it's a 19-year gap.
But then I'd have to actually check how old is Obi-Wan Kenobi in episode three anyway.
The 17 gap?
Oh yeah, I guess it would be based on how old Luke is.
I mean, yeah, if he's 58, he's looking a little haggard for 58.
But I mean, some people don't age that well, especially people who've been in war.
He lived in a desert for half of his life.
He lived as a hermit in the desert.
And he's been fighting wars in his 20s and 30s.
What a pussy.
He's not a pussy-ass gay robot.
Jedi man.
Rest enough to be a warrior.
Also, he trains by telling riddles.
That doesn't make sense.
It doesn't make any sense.
Just like the idea he's trying to teach Luke through questioning or something.
He's just in the room like, why are you saying riddles?
That doesn't make sense.
It's only what I fucking need to know.
Stupid old man.
Legitimate way to train.
If you're going to teach somebody about philosophy, that might make sense.
But you don't train someone to be a warrior.
Philosophy to those who don't understand it is essentially a riddle.
Hmm.
Plus, I mean, if you're going, it's not just how to fight.
It's, you know, when to fight.
Should you fight?
The reasons why you should fight.
The morals and the character behind fighting.
Because if not, then you're just going to end up like Darth Vader.
Yeah, you know, the do you want to be throwing soup for the rest of your life?
I don't think so.
Yeah, you'll want to grow up to be a soup slinger like your father.
By being a smart ass British guy.
And because he dies in the first movie.
I'm all or I think he just called you out.
Oh, man.
I'm smart ass British guys.
What was this guy's name again?
Retarded for public good or something?
Old man bad.
The first movie, his role in the second and third movie is totally useless.
So he's he's dead for fuck's sake.
He even said it like, because he dies in the first movie,
he's totally irrelevant than the other ones.
Even though they bring it back up.
Because he's dead, he's not alive in the other.
Your relative is bringing his ass up over and over and over,
despite the fact he's not actually technically in the movie.
What the fuck?
You can still talk about somebody who aren't in the mood.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, man.
When people are dead, you no longer talk about them.
God damn it.
Just fag shit.
Like George Washington is like, no.
Damn.
They have like 200 years.
Please shut that shit up.
Work the character and waste of time.
In the entire history of science fiction.
Why does he have big ved Vader there?
I mean, I'm all for every part of wrestling.
But why is big ved Vader there?
What are we looking at?
Rip off of.
Rip off of Robocop?
And Frankenstein.
Robocop came out in 1987.
How is Darth Vader a rip off of something?
That came out like eight years after.
Is that true?
Oh, my God, it's true.
Yeah, it's like an 87.
He's a rip off of something that came late.
The incredible foresight of Darth Vader to rip off something
that would eventually be made.
Time travel.
Racially ambiguous.
Oh, no.
Darth Vader can time travel.
Oh, no.
Racially ambiguous.
What does he mean?
No mechanical enhancements.
It's not like his whole thing.
Like Luke fucking.
He's a half robot, half machine.
Didn't Obi-Wan say he's more machine than man.
Yeah, Luke.
Luke hits him with his lightsaber on his shoulder
and it doesn't go through
because the implication is he has armor as far as I do.
That's the whole point of his fucking suit.
I'd call that an enhancement.
Well, you're a retard.
Oh, you got me.
Rip off of Frankenstein.
That's an interesting one.
If you ever replace a body part with anything.
For being mechanical or natural.
Frankenstein's monster.
Frankenstein was.
Yeah, but people typically refer to the monster
as Frankenstein, too.
Well, you're fucking wrong, aren't they?
Got to accept it.
It's life moves on.
Frankenstein's monster is dead.
You can't talk about him.
So is Vader's.
I'm kind of fucked on that.
Oh, man.
We did not play in this well, did we?
Racially ambiguous.
Look, I know he's white.
Just tell me he's white.
You're like watching the series as I am your father.
You're like, oh, man, that shit was heavy.
He's like, but is he black?
He's clearly got a nigger bullet.
That's right.
You're just going to let a black man play a white man's voice.
Luke's got a robotic arm.
Is he Frankenstein rip off, too?
Yes.
Yes.
That's how it works.
I don't make the rules.
Forbidable or tragic choose.
How are those two antithetical exactly?
Okay, let's hear his explanation.
That's always the best part.
Absolutely.
No villain is more overrated than Darth Vader.
First of all, he's basically right.
I disagree.
He's like right.
It's one of the best things ever.
He is off of RoboCop.
Think about his actual design.
The difference being, of course, he uses a lightsaber other than a gun.
Just a small difference.
One is silver.
One is black.
One has a cape.
One doesn't want to cop ones.
Not what the fuck are you talking about?
When you compare their weapons, they're kind of similar.
One's a gun.
The other is a lightsaber.
There's some differences, I guess.
I thought everyone knew how to shoot a gun.
Yes.
And fly.
Also fly.
Oh, and Darth Vader flies his tie fight.
Yeah.
If you think about it, a gun really just shoots small swords.
Yeah, it's just long distance stabbing.
Exactly.
He's also a rip off of Frankenstein.
The idea being that he is, you know, sort of a shell of his former self
and just a conglomerate.
Frankenstein didn't have a former self.
Yeah, that's the thing.
There's no Frankenstein story where he's like,
I used to be John Michael Jones.
At least I'm not aware of one.
I mean, fuck.
Oh, he must mean a rip off of I, Frankenstein.
The one with the name Chad Frankenstein.
Chad Frankenstein.
He ripped off the one that came out like 40 years late.
Like, all right.
Fair enough.
Creation of parts and machines.
But in that futuristic era.
And since when was there anything like did Frankenstein have a lot of mechanical body
parts outside of the bolts?
I don't remember that shit.
Where you can travel at light speed or beyond.
Why does he not have any mechanical enhancements?
Why is he so slow and ponderous?
Why isn't he quick?
Why doesn't he have?
I know that knows that.
Packs on him.
I don't understand.
It makes no sense.
Also, why doesn't he have electrically enhanced senses or something?
How do you know he does it?
I'm so good.
Electrically, it had senses.
Like he he hunted down like all the Jedi.
You think his suit and his cyborgness helped him with that?
I think that I think this guy wanted a scene like in Predator where it shows out his vision
and he like goes with like those little scans, little things on screen, like terminator mode.
He would have been happy if he did that.
They actually do that in Revenge of the Sith, don't they?
Like we see like inside his helmet for a second.
His old red shit.
Wonderful.
Another problem is not only is his status.
Does the status become ambiguous in the later movies as to whether he's a good guy or a tragic hero
or a badass or what he's supposed to be?
Tragic hero or a badass.
Why?
Yeah, well, at least he's not black.
He's going to get into that horrible failure of a choice.
It's also not really clear what race he is when we see his face.
Like a middle age white man, but he sounds like a professional black basketball player.
He sounds like the nerve.
Can you believe that Darth Vader sounds like a black guy?
What is he trying?
What what point is he making?
Has he not ever met a white guy who has like a super deep voice?
It's possible they're out there.
I mean, have this guy ever heard of Rick Astley?
He sounds like a black dude when he sings.
Exactly.
And he looks like fucking Potsy.
It's possible.
He's just a racist.
Middle age.
It doesn't work.
I don't understand what he's supposed to be.
Darth Vader is like this massive cluster of contradictions that doesn't go together.
It's not a combination.
What's the contradiction?
He just he just says words and he's like, they contradict.
You're like, well, what is it?
Simultaneously up and left.
He could be up and left.
I don't know.
This thing is just fucking terrible.
Buy more.
Oh, God.
Clearly anti Christian.
The the force equals help.
All right.
We're bringing up Jesus.
Popular Britain to New Zealand.
What's that going to do with anything?
Listen, we fought a revolution to get away from them.
Britain lights.
Got a lot of nerve trying to call out racism, please.
Having a black voice.
Like the worst thing ever.
I can't believe he made this video.
Well, I know he's black.
Just tell me he's black.
Sound like a goddamn basketball player.
I don't want no Barry White in my space movie.
What the fuck?
No, I ain't never been no black space.
Sign of the fact that George Lucas was a new director.
He didn't know what he was doing.
However, one area where I think that he was outright malignant
was in the formation of the Jedi religion.
Now, that's a big word.
He was malignant.
I have not used the word malignant in so long.
Let me check what it means.
Evil in nature or effect malevolent.
All right.
So George Lucas was was malevolent in his approach.
That evil man.
Anti-Christian and the force must be
where you get advice and information from demons.
All right, then.
I mean, those demons, you can't knock them.
Some of the stuff, they're pretty good.
I just realized Vader is throwing the hot, the loud soup.
The soup is terrible.
Damn, this demon soup.
I can't think of a way from the demon soup.
Imagine him trying to throw it on Kylo's head.
Is he such an unbelievable dim shit?
I want that to happen in episode nine.
Vader finally visits Kylo.
He's like, you are so fucking stupid.
Like, I've been watching all of this.
Kylo's like, what the hell, man?
Campbell's tomato, bitch.
Now, not only is it clearly anti-Christian and the force must be
where you get advice and information from demons,
but this is actually religion that people believe.
It's obvious.
Now, while the use of a British actor for Obi-Wan is supposed to make us think
British people are smart and wise because they have the accent.
But I know the truth.
I know there are a bunch of fucking dumbass.
Make me think the British are smart.
Tea drinking losers.
They're also all gay and black.
Very true.
And vaguely Muslim.
They can't go to space.
Fuck that.
These are the same fucking idiots who think that the Jedi religion is a real thing,
but it's not.
No one believes that.
Nobody who believes that.
By the way, it works.
You are so full of shit.
Like, when this came out, of course not.
But now, I'm pretty sure it's registered as like an official religion Jedi.
Enough people say that they follow the Jedi,
quote unquote, religion that it's been officialized.
Yeah, the rules, though, for being an official religion.
Yeah, no, that's that's true.
And that's the thing.
Like, it's like, I don't know, it's it's the same as all other religions.
They have the same access.
It's almost like all religions are bullshit or something.
If he's going to be like yours, yours doesn't make sense.
Give him a fucking movie.
It's like, OK, well, they don't believe in the Jewish Jewish zombie Jesus.
That's a fictional thing.
It's not like Christianity.
There's no actual.
A bold statement.
It's not fictional.
Like Christianity.
In a historical book, which was inspired by God.
There's not a historical book.
Episode four was a historical film.
Yeah, it seems to be based on prayer or something.
I don't really get what the general can you imagine.
Oh, is that a bad thing?
Persecuting a religion based on not understanding it.
How disgusting.
I just love the idea that your shit is fictional.
You're like, OK, all right.
And the whole dark side, light side thing is obviously racist.
Obviously racist.
Please enlighten me.
It needs to be more subtly racist.
Like he never really explains the bullet points.
They're basically all he says.
Yep, you've got the full picture already.
Clearly, you look at the Jedi.
They're almost all white males until you get to the prequels where George Lucas
figured out that it was racist and needed to do something about it.
I'm in the original.
And this guy's views on race confuse me so much.
Yeah, they're all white men who are Jedi's
and all the people who are Sith Lords are robots or that deformed thing.
The Emperor is a white guy.
Like, what's up?
I like that he had two to draw from from the OT.
He's like, they're either robots or deformed.
Oh, those are, you know, people who are of some other race or something or,
you know, so you get it, right?
I mean, it's clearly the white side is for white people and the dark side is for non-whites.
Oh, my God.
It's the same.
Yeah, it just makes it.
The Emperor and Darth Vader were white.
What the fuck?
This is the same fucking argument they used for like The Lion King back in 94.
The movie was racist because there were like people of color
played hyenas and they were dark and at the lions were light
and they were living a better life than the hyenas.
So they were clearly the white people of the way.
That's how fucking stupid it sounds.
Have you heard the one about how the the Uruk-Ayan orcs are clearly black people in
Lord of the Rings?
That's what it's supposed to represent.
Oh, God.
Count Dooku was white.
That is true.
What's the thing?
I don't know what he's basing this on.
Vader was a white guy when they took the stuff off him and the Emperor was clearly white,
but he calls him deformed and then concludes he's a non-white because he's deformed.
I don't know.
That seems like a weird system.
Well, you know, he got a couple, you know, liberal subscribers now.
So he's got a different perspective.
I see.
Very racist and very obviously racist.
Okay.
In general, if you're running a franchise that's trying to sell toys and also trying to
make you relate with and want to be a part of the good guy organization,
you want to give them cool equipment.
But the fact is that all the cool equipment is not with the rebels.
They have three major fighters.
You have the...
Why aren't these cool?
I think they're cool.
Yeah, I like them.
They're nice.
X-Wing, which is basically like a gay F-18 Hornet.
And the...
Why is it gay?
He called everything gay!
F-18 Hornet has always been a piece of shit.
It has a terrible combat record.
So making it after the...
Making the X-Wing after it was a bad decision.
You have the A-Wing, which is a lightweight fighter, which was actually stolen from the Jedi.
He said the X-Wing, the Y-Wing, and the A-Wing suck compared to the bad guy stuff.
And so far as I've noticed, the X-Wing is pretty gay.
Oh, okay.
Well, sure.
It does.
I mean, look at it.
Okay.
That screams homo.
You actually referenced...
I mean, listen, notice that the X-Wing is in the shape...
What else is in the shape of an X?
The X-Chromosome.
Shit.
Check it out in the cards.
If I can imagine it, if I can imagine shoving it up my ass, it's gay.
I mean, you never see X-Wings and Y-Wings together like XY-Chromosomes for a female.
It's just a bunch of X-Wings and XX is a boy and boys are gay.
That makes sense.
There's a spitting truth right there.
And A-Wings are trans.
And should be outdated by this time.
And it doesn't really have much of a role in the trilogy.
Well, Star Wars tends...
It seems like it's like a lot of science fiction, like Dune to a lesser degree,
Warhammer, where there's like technology stagnation.
It happens in Lord of the Rings and all sorts of stuff,
where thousands of years can go by, but they're still basically using the same technology.
It helps to keep a universe essentially kind of self-contained to a certain genre.
And there's out-of-universe reasons why that's done, but simplicity's sake for starters.
But that's kind of established here.
In this universe, they've kind of reached this level of technology,
and that's kind of where everything is sort of stuck at for the most part.
Innovate little things here and there, but it pretty much stays the same.
The chat demand an explanation, Rags.
If X is gay, then how is it that X-X is a woman?
X-X isn't. X-X isn't. No, no, no, that...
No, X with the Y-wings.
You don't...
The X...
If the X-wing is with a Y-wing, that's like a lady, because X-Y.
Ooh, there is a docking position you can see from there.
Yeah, well, they were straight for a little bit.
But once they got into space, which is black I might add,
they pair up together and they make X-Xs.
They make...
Notice once they're ready to fight, they're not always Xs.
Once they're ready to fight, their wings open and then boom, they become X.
So they're trans.
I think chat looks satisfied to me.
I'm seeing a lot of support.
There's a lot of support right there.
It makes sense. It makes sense.
Like the flat earth.
That's just straight up biology right there.
Biology.
Biology.
Biology.
Biology.
Biology.
It was just recycled and made use of later, but it should have had a bigger role in the trilogy.
And then you have the Y-wing bomber, which kind of looks like the B-1 bomber.
And again, it's probably their only really realistic looking ship.
Like I could imagine something in space that kind of looks like that.
Of all of these ships, the A-wing looks the most realistic?
I guess believable, I suppose.
We'll see the thing about the Y.
Well, I don't know. The Y-wing looks like it could...
Yeah, the Y-wing looks realistic.
Two engines on the left and right.
A cockpit in the front.
I mean, it makes sense.
I don't think that's unreasonable.
But the thing people say about X-wings is they shouldn't have, you know, like wings on it
because you don't need wings in space.
But then you could argue that the whole reason for them is to project out the blessing.
Well, no, they have to fly in.
They fly in the atmosphere.
You still need to have ships be able to fly in the atmosphere.
Were they... Did they ever get in atmosphere in episode four?
Yeah, they take off from, in episode four, they take off from the base.
If your base is on a planet, you have to be able to fly in the atmosphere.
The thing is like the A-wings and the Y-wings can be in atmosphere too.
Yeah, so but I know that the quote unquote wings of the TIE fighters, they aren't really wings.
They're like panels for... Aren't they like panels for...
Well, like I said, I figured they just...
Because TIE stands for Twin Ion Engine.
And an ion engine, in theory, can propulse essentially a ship in any direction.
So it can provide both thrust and lift.
So it doesn't really need wings.
But the science isn't really explained too much in the film.
So there's a lot of leeway for interpretation as to what's happening.
And when we say realistic, we're not fucking astronauts or anything.
I'm assuming we're just going from the fact that it has everything it would need to have for what it is.
And I don't know, it seems to satisfy those parameters.
But I'm sure a space-tician could rip this stuff apart.
He'd be like, no, they wouldn't have this, they wouldn't have this, they wouldn't have that.
Yeah, sure, yeah. And they were like, yeah, fair enough.
It doesn't seem to be very useful.
And most of the time they're fighting other large ships and not bombing planets.
So I'm not sure why the rebels have bombers.
You have to bomb ships.
I was about to say, wait, what?
You don't have bombs to bomb planets.
You know, like in World War II and stuff, you would bomb enemy ships on the ocean.
You would use bombers to bomb enemy ships.
Like you would drop something downwards onto a target to make it go boom.
Also, we're on a much higher, bigger scale here.
Like there's more stuff to bomb on the ship.
Like the status trial is pretty big.
And why would, I don't know, the rebels don't really need to bomb any planets.
They're nice ones.
Unless it was a bad planet.
Oh, supposedly they're the good guys.
They're not trying to like bomb out civilian planets or whatever.
So, again, confusing and not very well thought out.
Okay.
Oh, very male digress types.
I'm a very tolerant man.
He starts off by saying I'm a very tolerant man.
Okay.
But there's just too much niggery in this.
Nigger.
Too much niggery and wizardry.
Too many degrees.
What's this gas giant food?
Trade center bullshit.
Again, confusing and not very well thought out.
I'm a very tolerant man when it comes to watching citation.
Needed things that I'm not too thrilled about.
I allow robots to be gay.
Every robot wants to be gay.
It can be gay.
That's fine.
I still need to know which race the Vader is, though.
It's important to me.
It's important.
I need it.
Part that I don't care what race he is.
I just need to know that he is that race.
Hair out was Cloud City.
First of all, the character of Lando is basically an even more foppish Neil deGrasse Tyson.
Foppish?
A foppish.
I don't know if Neil deGrasse Tyson was really at his pinnacle of awareness.
Back when Star Wars episode five came out.
My goodness, I've never heard that word before.
So foppish means other man concerned with his clothes and appearance in an in an affected
and excessive way.
Yeah, I was about to say I looked it up myself.
Oh, he's super foppish now.
He's a foppish motherfucker.
He's literally he's literally jealous of Lando for taking a shower.
Fucking hygiene.
Foppish to the point of being 99% the funky Phantom.
Okay.
Now, Cloud City itself makes almost no sense.
All right.
Yeah, so it's in the clouds.
Does that make it a gas giant?
I'm pretty sure it's not supposed to be the fucking planet, you asshole.
It's just why did he say station?
If it's in the clouds, that isn't a gas giant.
We have clouds.
We have clouds.
Where are these?
Where are these so-called clouds?
If they're real, show them to me.
Can they touch them?
Clouds aren't real.
Sure.
But if it did, how would that make sense?
Because gas giants have massive gravitational force and it would be very uncomfortable.
Yeah, that's what yeah.
There's a probably a generator at the bottom that keeps it up.
It's space stuff.
But you'll notice that most of that is there's like a huge spire down below.
That's probably some kind of an engine thingy that keeps it lifted into the air.
Wait, wait, wait.
Does he think Cloud City is the name of the planet?
Yeah, that's what I was trying to get at.
I think that's best.
It's not Cloud City, the planet.
Okay.
They would probably call it Cloud Planet.
Yeah, probably.
It would be a little, you know.
Or Cloud World.
How do you get food in a place like this?
Where's the ground?
Well, they have these things called spaceships, you fucking retard.
Well, no, no, Rags.
You see, if it was a planet of clouds only, how would you get food?
There's no way.
Well, obviously, you would drink the clouds.
I just like the idea that the way that we understand this place is someone visiting it.
It's like, well then, how do they get anything?
It's like, I don't know, maybe it's shipped in.
Crazy idea.
So how does any of this make the move bad?
Didn't Lando say he's in charge of like a mining thing on Bespin?
Maybe.
I can't remember.
Someone in chat might know.
But if there's a mining thing going on,
then I'm pretty sure there's got to be something hard of a surface somewhere.
Been a wild ride.
Well, if it's a trade center, again, if it's a trade center on a gas giant,
that doesn't make sense because the cost of fuel.
Tell us what the cost of fuel is.
All the thing would be.
But to mention that, why does he keep concluding as a gas giant because of clouds?
Yeah, we don't know if there's there.
We don't know if there's a, I mean, I guess I'm not actually sure if there's any lore
about Bespin that says that there's some, like, there's a terrestrial aspect.
There's a terrestrial aspect to it.
According to chat, they mine gas.
Yeah, I'm just reading up.
So apparently, it is a gas giant.
It contains a thin stratum of habitable atmosphere.
Its layers were a source of red to banner gas,
which was harvested, refined in several mining complexes.
How do you mine gas without having because we mine gas,
but we we have a solid to break it out from, right?
That's something crazy.
And I don't know.
I guess that I guess a lot of the cloud atmosphere,
it sticks to like clouds, essentially.
But like, so I guess my confusion is wouldn't that just be like gas collection versus gas mining?
But yeah, I guess mining is used in a catch all kind of way.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, we don't know how much of any of this costs anything.
And it's all great based as far as I know.
Jay said you just give it the suck.
I guess you'd have a big vacuum cleaner.
And again, where the hell is the surface?
And why don't they just live on the surface rather than living like a bunch of ass?
Because they can't.
Not every planet, not every planet is Earth fucking retard.
Why do they live up there if they can live on the ground fucking idiots?
And he should go to Columbia.
But I'm sure I can fuck him up.
But on the in the clouds, like a bunch of assholes.
I mean, there's things like those like a bunch of assholes.
Okay.
That's an argument, I guess.
Dragon balls in heaven in the clouds.
And fuck it out.
Fuck heaven.
Gay.
He just read a robot.
What was it?
He just referenced Dragon Ball Z.
I'll have to roll him back.
But on the in the clouds, like a bunch of assholes.
I mean, those things look like those things like on Dragon Ball Z that come above the Earth.
I know my asshole takes people over the moon.
Yeah, not a big fan of Cloud City.
It's fucking stupid.
Okay.
It seems like there are a lot of technically charged stormtroopers don't look futuristic.
Okay, okay.
What is what is a future soldier supposed to look like?
Ships are obviously toys.
What?
You can have toy versions of actual ships in real life that are used to do things.
Nope.
Laser guns look unrealistic.
The laser guns look unrealistic.
They're not like real laser guns.
The Imperial Walkers are impractical.
That might, depending on how he qualifies that, that might, he might have a point to a degree.
He just got C-3PO, I guess.
Laser guns look unrealistic, unlike the Bible.
The sound effects.
Unlike the Bible.
The pinnacle of realism and believability.
The sound effects could have been done on a desk.
Oh no.
Here we go.
Looking people out there who really like to put down the prequels and make fun of their visuals
while upholding the visual techniques and technologies of the original trilogy.
However, that's really dumb.
The stormtroopers don't look realistic.
They're bland, colorless, lifeless, and that plastic armor can't possibly stop anything
or deal with the conditions.
Almost like it's uniform.
Doesn't look like it does in the films, to be fair.
Well, it's just one of my problems with it.
My conclusion is that it's not armor, it's uniform.
But it's, I think it's stupid that you'd have such a clunky outfit if it was just uniform.
Supposed to, it's like in all of the books and everything, it's like supposed to be armor.
I was going to say, I think they refer to it as armor.
Yeah, but it doesn't do shit.
Does it let them at least stay out in space?
Is that a thing?
It's supposed to have some kind of zero atmosphere resistance,
but if it works as good as their blaster resistance, then.
Yeah, because Finn does say that it can protect them from smoke,
but it can't protect them from poison.
They're breathing things.
Which makes me think that it wouldn't work in space
because that means they need a source in general, right?
Mm hmm.
I think we need to point out that he used a picture of twerking Stormtroop.
He says they have no life while showing that picture.
It's like, oh, I don't know about space or other planets.
I'm just sorry.
It's no good.
That is really shitty looking armor.
It obviously has no effect.
Compared to the clones who get annihilated by everything too.
Prequels, yeah.
Yeah, but prequels are better.
Obviously, toys.
You get the TIE fighter pictured in this slide.
It's clearly not something.
Yeah, they didn't use real TIE fighter.
What the fuck?
I'm sorry, man.
That design looks awesome as fuck.
It's like, if you're like, oh, yeah, it's going to be a toy.
I'd be like, yeah, I want it.
I think you would.
Well, they exist in real life.
It's clearly made out of plastic,
and it's something that a child could play with
and throw across the room.
You can do that with anything.
Can you imagine that children want to play with spaceships
from their cool movies?
That sounds gay, dude.
Kids are gay.
Kids are fucking gay.
I fucking hate kids.
The laser weapons look really unrealistic.
The lasers don't fire the way a real laser would fire.
What?
Real lasers at all.
Yes.
Well, because you mean because they're too slow?
Like, because if they were light speed,
they'd go boom, you know?
That was that.
This gentleman is a physics major.
I don't know the, is he, what does he compare it to?
Just there are no laser guns in real life as far as I'm aware.
I could be wrong.
Have they developed them yet?
Are they in area 51?
We don't get it.
Yeah.
The aliens help us build them.
Yes.
He's a gay.
They're too contained in little pebblet things,
and it's just a pebblet.
Peblet?
I've not heard that one before.
Excuse me, sir.
I think you, you might be drinking.
Doesn't make any sense.
And also the sound effects for them are terrible.
We'll talk about that in one minute.
The Imperial Walkers don't make sense as weapons.
They look, yeah.
Things with legs like that are obviously vulnerable and slow.
So that would be something to dummy.
A tank is vulnerable.
And slow.
Well, tanks are fast, but it's like, well, I, if it's, it's an,
isn't the AT supposed to be all terrain?
Well, that's the thing.
Is it all terrain?
Would it work in, well, I was about to say,
the only terrain I could suggest would just be utterly ridiculous shit.
Like a water planet entirely that was really deep.
Or could, I guess it could go underwater.
I don't think of like a really steep mountain claws into it, maybe.
I know that they upgraded them, right?
And in the TLJ, they had the, I think they were the Gorilla 8080s or something.
And they had like, something like that.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Oh, oh.
Well, I don't, I don't really know.
Like, I don't know enough about them.
And I'd have to look into arguments, both for and against to be honest.
You track vehicles, like tanks or something like they have in the prequels.
Because again, it makes more sense.
C3PO, if he's the most advanced artificial intelligence they have,
then they truly have made no advancements in AI.
Yeah, I could have done way fucking better.
He's literally like sentient.
So they're like, good.
Could you better?
Gabe Robot Butler said to you, this shit, you need to be working on other shit.
It was like, what?
We don't even have reference for where he came from.
But it was just the OT.
He was just, he was a robot.
Like the layer owned, I guess.
Protocol droids supposed to be able to translate.
I don't know.
He does everything really well, considering the use where we're told that he has.
What else is there?
Yeah, yeah.
But he's got a faggy accent.
Why does it sound more like me?
Yeah.
Why did they make him so attractive?
They're trying to confuse me.
That's fucking pathetic.
C3PO is the most annoying character in the Star Wars universe.
And I would venture to say in almost all of fiction period.
If I could eliminate one of the Star Wars universe.
Yeah.
The C3PO.
He is 10 times worse than Jar Jar Binks.
10 times.
He could quantify that shit.
Nice.
Oh, boy.
Fuck what anybody says.
He really is.
He's that much worse.
And by and large, the sound effects on this thing could have been done easily on an NES.
Oh, shit.
Jenna just reminded me.
I'm pretty sure in Futurama, the professor makes like a C3PO style thing,
and it falls in love with him and tries to have sex with him, and the press has to kill it.
So this guy's fears are on point.
I'll be making him too gay.
Nintendo intended to make robots too gay in the mid-1980s.
There's nothing that this movie does that the NES couldn't have done and done better.
Period.
I don't know.
Have you played on an NES?
I don't think that the NES had the capacity.
Star Wars looks a little better.
Yeah, I don't think that NES had the capacity to play the sounds at
the bit rate that we played in the film.
Like, I don't actually think it was technically possible.
So gonna have to disagree with that one.
At this point, some of you out there who...
The rebels are evil.
I think there's an argument to be made.
So Admiral Ackbar.
Yeah, he's shit.
Force neutrals to fight.
Aggressor in the conflict.
I mean, if you're being oppressed to the degree that the rebels were,
that if you don't comply or consider the aggressor, that's interesting.
Anti-commerce, politically correct, criminal organization.
No calls.
Interesting.
Okay, let's hear it out.
Who are still obsessed with defending the honor of George Lucas' original trilogy might just say,
but, remarkable Republican, you're being picky.
You're making fun of a movie from the 70s and not giving it credit for what it was.
Well, that might all be true, except for this.
It's an epic.
It's supposed to be good versus evil, and it totally fails with that,
because, in fact, the good guys, the rebels, are evil.
Evil.
Evil.
Just to point out, the Empire blew up a planet?
Yeah, casually.
I mean, as much as I'm always interested in how well was the Empire operating in the universe,
I like the idea that they were pretty good, but they took it a bit far in certain areas.
Hunting down the entirety of anybody who follows a religion, for example,
outside of Ex-Jedi that turns Sith, you know, like, a bit much.
Bit much.
Undestroying planets.
That's definitely on the no-no list.
Yeah, it's honestly kind of, it's going to be tough to beat that one.
Well, he is the bad guy, but the guy who's supposed to be the rebel admiral or whatever you call it,
he is named after an Indian conqueror from the Middle Ages who killed millions of his
own people to take over India.
So, you're not exactly a good guy.
But you can't, you have the same name as someone else who did a thing, therefore you're bad.
What the hell?
If there was a bad Republican out there, then that means that your channel is evil.
Yeah, I'm disgusted.
The rebels, when they move into places, force neutrals to fight,
or they force loyal subjects to take up arms against-
Did you know that Akbar chose his own name when he was born?
No, he based it after the Indian conqueror.
Is there an Indian dude who like slaughtered a bunch of people?
Because if there is, I want to be named after him.
It just so happens we have the guy.
He meets Akbar in real life.
Jay said, you have an evil name.
Okay.
Droid by the Death Star.
They're clearly the aggressor in the conflict.
They are not the victims here.
They're the ones-
Wait, who?
Wait, what?
The rebels are not the victims, even though they're being chased to deletion.
No, the force neutrals to fight.
Oh.
I don't know how you justify that.
Who's neutral and gets forced to fight?
If anything, the Empire do that.
Does he mean like they gave their soldiers orders?
Maybe they mean all those tiny fluff thingy calls.
Oh, Ewoks?
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah, I guess.
I guess.
Yeah, that's true.
To a degree, even though they were held captive.
Yeah, but they didn't force them and they were-
Like the Empire was using their moon to activate their bunker or whatever.
And yeah, the Ewoks joined them.
I don't know that they were forced.
They weren't forced.
Do you want to kill some stormtroopers and eat their corpses?
They were like, yay.
Yay.
Drink their blood.
Starting battles and taking over planets.
Who?
Generally on the offensive against the Empire.
Yeah, that's what-
Yeah, the Empire is evil.
They're fighting against the evil Empire.
They will start fights.
Just because you start a fight doesn't mean it's evil.
Well, I just like the idea that you lock someone in a prison for years.
You go to hand them like a fucking-
Like a potato and then they punch you and try to escape.
And you go, ah, you were the aggressor.
You were the aggressor.
Even men.
You were the evil.
You were the evil.
The anti-commerce.
So they're hurting a lot of neutrals and they're hurting-
How are they anti-commerce?
Law abiding citizens.
No.
How are they anti-commerce?
Because they try to break away a government that's pro-commerce, I guess.
They would be against commerce if they were to take control.
We know this from that scene where that happens.
This is a very strange video.
Yeah.
Like Han Solo joins their cause.
He's one of their premier guys and there's a reason.
It's because the dude is a space pirate.
That's what the rebels are.
They're coalition of criminals fighting this law and order.
Of course they're criminals.
I mean, the French resistance in World War II were criminals.
All of America are criminals under British law.
The American revolutionaries were criminals.
That's so dumb.
They broke the law.
He sounds like he's fucking grandma talking, giving a speech about the movies.
These criminals.
Yeah, yes, yes.
Why won't they just be oppressed in peace?
They were the aggressors in the conflict.
They're politically correct.
You see the different races they join together
and that seems to be their only real agenda.
Oh no, racial harmony.
What a bunch of bullshit.
Yeah.
Remember when he was talking about like how
how the white versus the dark was racist and now all of a sudden he's going back to his shit?
Right back into the red nectar story.
His views on race are just so odd.
So he said they have no real clear goal outside of bringing people together.
It's like, okay, that and freedom.
I think that there's a two pretty cool goal.
They don't want the Batman to blow up planets anymore.
Like they have that on a piece of paper.
They're like, please stop blowing a planet.
So this guy's like, hmm, you guys are criminals.
Goddamn anti-comers, fuckers.
What is it the empire does specifically that's angering them?
They blew up a planet.
They hunt them down throughout the three movies.
They killed billions and billions of innocent people in the blink of an eye, wiped them all out.
What did the empire do?
The empire did fucking nothing.
Leave them alone.
Jesus.
What a magic man.
What is evil to you?
What do you have to do to be evil if blowing up a planet doesn't do it?
You got to be a gay butler to be.
Quickly, that's angering them.
Is it the fact that they have some sort of magic man running the empire?
I doubt it.
Is it because there are stormtroopers?
I don't know.
Is that something to do with taxes?
Well, we're not told that.
We don't know.
Can you believe the nerve of, I don't know, maybe a group of people far away from someone else who,
because of taxation, maybe got upset and rebelled.
Could you imagine such a scenario ever occurring in the history of anything else?
I just love that we showed them obliterate billions of people.
He's like, what was that?
Somebody to do with taxes?
I don't know.
Some kind of tax issue.
I don't know if I told us, of course.
The empire's taxed them tyrannically,
but it would be kind of hard to tax a bunch of independent planets out in space.
Well, if you're independent, then you've defined yourself into a situation that...
There's so much wrong with everything here.
Why was there a conflict?
No context.
I'm just going to say, why was there a conflict?
Were there some taxes?
They never tell us.
I don't know.
You just got to think about it.
What is it the rebels fight for?
You should think about everything you said in this fucking video.
He unironically doesn't know what the rebels fight for?
I mean, I feel like I watched a different movie.
Yeah, man.
How are they not the bad guys?
Well, a couple of people said this is obviously a troll,
but apparently this guy does believe this shit,
and he's apparently debated people about this,
but he usually devolves the calling him stupid apparently.
I like him.
I love these videos. This is amazing.
I love New Jared.
Ty would like us to be gay.
Could it be as good as this?
They're the fucking aggressors.
Anyway, this has been remarkable Republican.
If you aggress against tyranny and despotism,
and people who are blowing up planets,
because you are the aggressor, you are the bad man.
Oh, and you fucking gay ass goal of bringing people together.
Get the fuck out of here with that.
Yeah, get out of here with that fag shit.
Truth flavored bias.
And I know this is going to draw some fucking nerds out of the woodwork.
You made a video about why certain Star Wars movies are better than others.
Don't be calling other people fucking nerds.
One of his points is Lucas too much of a middle aged lesbian.
Why did people not like my video?
You're a nerd if you don't like my video.
That's okay.
I'm more than equipped to take on all you dumbasses.
Anyway, that's all I got to say right now.
So remember, Star Wars original trilogy sucks.
And don't get your little hopes up about episode seven.
It's supposed to draw on these original trilogy movies,
and it's probably gonna suck just as much if not more.
You nailed that.
I'm not sure.
So you say it right.
I'm done.
Good night.
Gay Confederate generals and Robert.
Why is that a thing?
Why is that?
It's just literally for me.
It's a black abyss with this picture.
This is gay Confederate general.
I have that one as well, but I have a second one.
Oh, I don't have to.
Oh, can you see Aquaman, a conservative masterpiece?
He's got another video about Aquaman and how it's a conservative masterpiece.
This man, like he has 252 subscribers.
That is not enough.
He needs to know.
He needs to know this content.
Fucking amazing.
I want to see if the video is real, though.
Republican Tywin.
Just says Tywin Lannister, colon, homosexual.
What are the comments?
I just have to watch that one, please.
The only comment there is, did you smoke, lol?
So, is anyone interested in at least checking that out for like a minute just to see what it is?
Yes, please.
Sure, sure.
For it.
He also has a video that's called Bernie Sanders, homosexual.
Look at the way he sits there.
There's more.
Napoleon is Islamic extremist.
Okay.
That's what Napoleon is.
There's a wrestling one.
That's good.
HBK, Sean Michaels, gay Christian.
That's funny to me.
G-man's gay ministry.
What the fuck are those videos?
Oh, G-man.
I know G-man.
Oh, I know G-man.
He doesn't have a gay ministry.
Was Robert E. Lee gay?
Oh, definitely.
Check this out.
I'm looking here to bring you the truth with truth flavored bias.
And today I'm telling you all about the Taiwan,
Lancer and Game of Thrones is in fact the ultimate homosexual.
The ultimate homosexual.
Well, hold on.
Let me get my fucking notes out.
Like a total super fag.
I'll bet you'll take your notes just like a gay person.
That's phallic.
I'd like to know what the tiers of homosexual are.
Is the entry level protege homosexual?
Yes.
Like a whiteboard where you just all wrote it down.
It's like, he is Taiwan Lannister homosexual.
As you progress, you get to have the lesbian hair.
But another one is more like C3PO lesbian.
That's like a high rank, that one.
Yeah.
Now there are many openly homosexual characters in the story.
However, Taiwan is special.
Now George RR Martin himself is a homosexual.
And Taiwan Lannister is sort of the character that he modeled on himself
or at least what he thinks he would be if he lived in a fictional universe.
Is that so?
I didn't know that.
Now where does the evidence come from?
No one did.
Well, the first tent we get is that we meet Taiwan
and he has been widowed for many years.
What happens with gay people?
You meet them.
It just makes sense.
He said he's been widowed for many years.
Very typical of the gay to have an ex living wife.
He has never taken a lover.
He has no mistress.
So far as we know, he never visits prostitutes.
Everyone knows the straights aren't, they have no fidelity, those straights.
And most oddly of all, he doesn't have any bastard children dating back.
What?
No bastard children prove he had no children out of wedlock, which means he must be gay.
If you don't have five or six baby mamas, you're just a big old queer.
You got to use your dick, baby.
Have any bastards?
Like, no, like you're gay.
This youth, this is all highly unusual and the Game of Thrones universe.
It's not, though.
A lot of the the leading people don't have bastards.
Ned Stark doesn't have a bastard.
That's that's what we find out.
Stanis doesn't have one.
Renly doesn't have any bastards.
They're all gay.
Okay.
Clearly, everyone has mistresses.
Also, for anybody wondering, I'm going from show continuity because he's
I think he's going from show continuity.
He ain't got no mistress.
He has a mistress.
Also, wait.
Yeah.
What about fucking season four?
Don't laugh at that.
Literally, season four finale.
Tywood's got a whore in his bed.
So, uh,
a man whore.
And this shot is from season four.
So, um,
She had she had below the cup.
It is clearly that was a dude.
They look pretty manage.
Yeah, forward a bit.
And now we're in a little weird.
Uh, if you if you really pay attention, his top complaint against Tyrion
isn't even his dwarfism, but rather the fact that he's a constant whore monger.
And you imagine someone being upset with that because he wants your world.
He wants Tyrion to marry into a high powered family to
increase his fucking power in the country.
It's not because he sleeps with people specifically.
It's also a depraved little demon is kind of how he looks at him.
God damn it.
Literally, I don't know why I blanked it.
Yeah, we know that Tywin likes girls.
It's a very big piece of evidence in season four that apparently
just I'm curious if he's going to address that.
It shows is not so much that Tywin has some sort of moral objection to it.
I mean, the dude is pretty immoral.
I think we can all agree, but that he simply doesn't understand.
He thinks he's a moral.
I mean, it's just he's not like you and I.
He's in a different time in a different place.
I was going to say it's complicated.
Defining Tyrion as immoral is literally because we associate more with the
Stark protagonist than we do with him.
I feel like if he was the protagonist of this whole show,
we probably would have agreed with most of his choices.
And if people are going to be like, he killed two of the main characters
and above us like this context explains why that was a pretty damn good choice on his end.
I would want to have sex with a lot of women.
Like a real.
Now, all three of Tywin's children are also sexual deviants.
Jamie and Cersei, you know, they have some incestuous relations and they have.
So because his kids are incestuous, that means he must be gay.
Probably.
Imagine being yet he's so gay, he's going out of his way to have sex with his sister.
That's how gay he is.
If anything, that is desperately straight.
It's like we're just so fucking gay, dude.
It's like to sleep with your brother like a straight person.
Other children together.
And the thing is, sexual deviants runs in families and they had to get it from somewhere.
Is he implying you're a sexual deviant if you're gay?
It's genetic.
Wow.
Writing's on the wall with this one.
And since there is no mother character for them, since she's been dead for so long,
we have to assume that they were they probably even talk about her, even though she's not even.
They do.
They mentioned this, so that's pretty fucked up since died ages ago.
Jesus, I'm pretty I'm surprised he's not pissed at that one.
Now, despite the Lannister incest and that apparently being a thing that is acceptable,
both in the Lannister family and the Targaryen family and all these other families,
Tywin never.
It's almost like it's a medieval thing that happened.
Yeah, it's very widespread in that story and in IRLs.
Tywin never actually sleeps with Cersei or father's children through her to ensure a succession.
Also, Jason, did he just imply that if you're gay, you're immoral because
he was like Tywin doesn't have morals.
He's also said you're a deviant if you're gay.
So, well, yeah, dude, do you not hear shit about the Bible earlier?
He's got some interesting takes.
He also never marries any of his nieces or does that kind of thing,
even though apparently that would be something that would not be unusual in this universe.
Not unusual.
Further, in a world where old men, you know, you put themselves over on young girls,
you look at what bridges, I can't think of his name, but what he does.
He there obviously is no stigma about marrying teenage girls if you're an old man.
And yet, no, because that's what the time period is.
Having producing heirs and having healthy females around by which you could create those heirs
was a really, really important because this is based on a time period where people will
live to be 30.
So if a chick's 15, then yeah, you want to put a baby in her so she doesn't die.
But like not doing that does not then mean you are gay.
Like it's a strip.
Oh, yeah.
Also impregnation famously associated with gay people.
I don't understand.
But advanced himself on either Aria Stark or Sansa Stark.
All right.
We also know from Rob Stark and from the context of the show that
Tywin is not a skilled general.
Not a skilled general.
It's not true.
I know that's not true.
I was going to say, how do you say that during the whole show?
So for context, what he's probably referencing is that Rob Stark captures one of Tywin's scouts.
He tells the scout in what seems to be like a rush of rage, like I'm coming for him.
I'm going to rip him apart.
You can go tell him that.
And the scout's like, oh, okay.
And the scout tells Tywin.
Tywin's like, he really thinks he can beat me.
All right.
Like, I'll face him one-to-one.
Rob sends 2000 men to Tywin and he sends his like 18,000 main forces over to Jamie's army
as a surprise attack and obliterates them and takes Jamie captured.
And Tywin was outsmarted in that moment.
And everyone was really impressed because Rob did a really good move.
That does not make Tywin a shitty general.
It's like, how the fuck was he supposed to know?
If your record isn't 100%, you suck.
That's how it works.
I mean, I'm not saying that Tywin ended up killing Rob,
but that might have been a thing that happened.
So it would be interesting to refer to Rob as the superior combatant in that scenario, wouldn't it?
And in general, not to stereotype too much.
We know that homosexuals tend not to be very good at conducting military affairs.
At conducting what?
Military affairs.
I...
Is that, um, you know, Richard the Lionhearted was gay.
Yeah, but I don't understand.
I literally have no, I, is that, I've never heard that before.
That gays don't make good generals.
Apparently.
You don't want them caring for their men.
I don't think I've ever heard that before.
I've never heard that before.
I'm trying to, yeah, man.
The gays make for bad.
How does he keep existing?
Tywin's like the best fucking mastermind in the whole show.
How does he even reconcile that?
All right.
Us.
That was new.
I've not heard that one.
And what-
Oh, you're right.
That should be in Godelve.
How do I even phrase this?
The gay has historically been, um, in effective in places of power.
That should work pretty well.
Tywin looks for, is not winning on the battlefield.
He looks to ruses, which should be very womanly.
He likes to, okay.
Goddamn womanly ruses.
Are there, is there anything gayer than really?
I pause it.
No, there is not.
I imagine being this man, like watching TV shows.
Fucking hell.
To win by marriages and win by personal relationships and by betrayal.
Yeah, real men kill through bloodshed and pain and conquest.
Tywin twice that we know of in the show,
brute forced his army through the gates of King's Landing and took it.
So I don't agree with the idea that he's already ever done ruses.
His model of power, not by the manly virtuous model of let's fight in the field and see who
the better man is.
We also, that's not how you determine who the, I mean,
I guess his idea of the reality is strictly based on bloodshed and conquest.
Dude.
So like an army of 10,000 show up to this guy's house and he's like,
I will fight your best man.
And then they're like, no, we're just going to assault the house.
He's like, what are you gay?
Like, yeah, sure.
You're dead.
What a womanly strategy.
Dude had one successful fistfight in Olive Garden parking lot.
And now like, oh,
anybody who doesn't do it, how I do it is like womanly ruses.
It's just all fucking money hungry, power hungry, and he doesn't really care about glory.
And the reason why a lot of people care so much about glory is that
glory is the thing that gets you women.
No, none of the women that I have fucked know I have a YouTube channel,
which is the closest thing, I guess, to glory.
I have in a modern sense.
What?
How does this guy think that like human interaction works like this?
This is an alien.
He read the Count of Monte Cristo and he thinks that's how human civilization works.
We gay people glory.
What have you ever seen those two things together?
I don't think so.
And if you're not interested in women as Taiwan obviously is not,
then it wouldn't matter.
Literally had a hoard is bad, but okay.
Literally, that was just to keep up appearances.
Three children, but he's the gay.
We also see that he's very jealous and petty
about getting the credit for defending King's Landing,
even though we know for a fact that Tyrion is the primary author of the victory.
Tyrion delayed the inevitable defeat.
Tywin saved the city.
That's bullshit.
Without one or the other, they would have lost the idea that
what do you mean the author of the victory?
That's an interesting choice of words.
Gays are jealous and petty by nature.
They're jealous, petty, immoral, deviants.
They don't want glory, I guess.
Oh, geez.
And this is a very womanly thing, like the way mothers are jealous of their daughters.
What a strange individual.
I would love to just shrink myself down and explore his brain for a while.
It's just a series of insane ideas.
We're just like, hmm.
It's like through the looking glass with this guy.
Jinging their daughters in their prime and much hotter.
So this is sort of a thing that a woman would do,
and it shows that Tywin is woman-minded and most likely a homosexual.
Woman-minded.
I don't know what to say.
Because jealousy is a strictly female trait.
You're just like, you're treating all these bad traits to either women's or the gays.
I would love to know if he thinks that straight people or men possess any negative traits
generally, or if they're stereotyped.
The second they begin to turn negative in any way, they're getting gayer.
It's like, the further you stray from perfection, the more gay you are.
Oh, man.
I'm jealous of my friend's new pickup.
I can only suck a dick, buddy.
Your truck's making me gay, Glenn.
Now, another thing that shows Tywin's homosexuality
is that when he's doing his grand marriage scheme in season three,
he doesn't include himself, even though everyone else is a part of it.
Well, you can't make...
I'm not gonna say that he's...
He's not busy doing anything else, Mol.
He's not...
I'm not saying he's sterile, but the whole reason he wants his kids to marry is to make kids straight away.
Now, I don't know if him marrying versus his kids marrying other kids to have long life...
He literally says he's only...
He won't even last this war.
He's concerned that he's absolutely gonna be dying relatively soon.
Like, I guess he should have married...
I don't even know...
Like, he can't...
It's just shocking to me.
Yeah, you know what, Tywin?
You should have married Olenna.
I actually would have been okay with that.
Those two would make a great couple.
Yeah, well...
Oh, look at you matchmaking, you fucking queer.
I matchmade a straight white cis couple, okay?
That is not the gay.
This even includes letting Littlefinger marry Lady Stark's sister rather than doing it himself.
Lady Stark?
Oh, he's talking about Lysa, okay.
Why would he marry Lysa?
Which would have made him both the Lord of the House of Lannister and the Lord of the Vale.
I don't think you can just fucking force her to marry him.
That's not how that works.
She gets to choose.
She only wants to marry Littlefinger because she's had a crush on him since they were kids.
Fool.
Uniting two of the Seven Kingdoms and then creating a grand inheritance for either Joffrey
or his other grandson.
Yes, this YouTube channel is just him trying to dodge his repressed sexuality.
Maybe if I talk about how bad the homos are, I won't become one.
Genius.
But the reason he doesn't take this deal is obviously...
I mean, it worked for no one else ever.
It'll work for me.
And really, what we see is that the man clearly goes well out of his way to avoid
any kind of sexual intercourse with women.
Except when he made three children and had a whore in his bed in season four.
Except those times.
Yeah, except the fact that you're constantly referring to how he talks to his children.
That was just a formality of being gay.
That was just to keep up appearances, I guess.
He expects his other children to put their own personal feelings aside and do things they don't
want to do.
Tyrion is not interested in Sansa Stark, but Tywin asked him to go and father a child
by her anyway.
And I think that probably the most important piece of evidence, which I saved for last,
is that after Joffrey dies, we hear Tywin complain to Cersei that one of the problems
with Joffrey is that he was planning even Tywin's own death.
Now, there's not a lot of context in the show about why Joffrey wanted to kill.
You know that Joffrey is actually very smart about how he uses power to advance himself.
No.
What about the sound right now, by the way?
Yeah, I know it's getting weird, but what do you mean Joffrey is smart at using power?
There's got to be a reason why Tywin knew that his house was cooked.
Well, if you recall in season three, what actually happened is that Joffrey told Marjorie
that he was thinking about making homosexuality a crime punishable by death.
Okay, that's true.
I'm sure that the ideal world of this guy.
Oh my god.
Just like the Bible, stone the gaze.
Who is homosexual, who also was in danger of being put to death?
Well, Tywin Lannister.
It all fits.
It all fits.
Just like his calf into a man's ass.
God damn it all fits.
Gay butlers, ultimate homosexual.
Deviant.
It all fits.
Oh, that's amazing.
That's an amazing channel.
I can't believe it.
I love this channel so much.
This is all something which is part of a larger narrative that George R. Martin is trying
to sneak under people's noses, and that is the obvious truth that Tywin Lannister is,
in fact, a homosexual.
Okay.
He's been a remarkable Republican, bringing the truth with a truth-flavored bias.
Yeah, remarkable is an accurate yes, yes.
Also the truth-flavored bias.
That's amazing stuff, man.
Like, I never thought that was what was going to happen, because I was linked that video
a long time ago, and I just saw it, and I was like, you know what?
Let's check it out, you know?
An innocent little exploration.
What do you guys think?
Good?
A masterpiece.
Bad notion.
That was amazeballs.
See, like, because, you know, a lot of people are like,
how do I star a YouTube channel?
What do I do?
It's like, that guy exists.
This.
Take this.
Emulate this man.
In the most accurate way, you could possibly manage.
Whatever plan you had to make, because you weren't sure if it would work.
I mean, it worked for him, okay?
I'm not saying he's got a huge audience or anything, but he's hustling.
He's doing his shit.
He's going great.
Just checking out some memes on Twitter.
We got a couple weeks.
This has been a really weird efap.
I'm not gonna lie.
Yeah.
I did not know that this was what we were in for.
I'm glad that we're able to explore what makes a rat good, though.
This has been the best efap rat.
This man is the efap rat.
Simultaneously a thing.
Yeah, terrifying.
All right.
So, um, just chock full of references for this one.
Like the little marks in the book, right?
Bilbo marks.
Why is Jar Jar the best character?
Oh my goodness.
I do enjoy certain art.
Bilbo marks.
Super hot, not a K-Robot.
Not a British accent.
Not a British accent.
Not black.
Oh no.
Not a K-Robot.
An important piece of art for us all to absorb.
So, what makes a good rat?
On the bad side, you got disgusting teeth, rabies, lunatic, filthy, probably transmits the plague.
And the good rat, domesticated, soft, cute little face, cute little paws, no plague.
No plague is definitely a bonus.
We can just send this over to Brown Table.
I think, uh, he'd finally get his answer.
He might even make a video about that.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Enjoy.
Did not.
It's perfect.
I do enjoy certain art.
What's wrong with his fucking mouth?
Stretching art.
There's a tiny mouth.
Tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny.
Fox cock.
Oh no.
Just one piece of rice at a time.
Just eat some very quickly.
From there, I'm going to, uh, get reading some super chats because I've let them collect a little.
Um, before I go, I like to give everyone opportunity.
If you want to, um, jump out in any way, shape, or form you're welcome to,
or go, you know, have some food, go to the toilet, anything you want to do.
What's at the toilet?
Food.
What isn't at the toilet?
Yum.
What's at the toilet brown table video?
Wait, wait, which channel would you rather be stuck watching?
Brown tables or a Republican guy?
I think maybe Brown table because this is hilarious and small doses.
Yeah.
But if it was this all the time, it just wouldn't satisfy.
You would get old quickly.
Brown table seems to swap switches.
Brown table is definitely higher grade shit.
You know?
Like I would almost say that Brown table is fertilizer, but this is just poo.
That's well put.
Um, all right.
So the first one from Ryan is high rags.
Hello.
Any updates on Wolf?
That is at the beginning of the stream.
You might be able to catch it still right now.
If you cycle back to the beginning while we're live,
but once you have to wait for it to process, once it's, uh,
once it's over, salad jerky hurts my soul.
That's fair.
No one wants to really eat salad jerky.
Wolf?
Question mark.
Again, all at the beginning.
Um, just want to show my support.
Thanks for the content.
Thank you.
Frozen grip.
Efap this early and on my day off.
This is great.
Wow.
Sup, J long bone.
Sup.
Um, I imagine this stream will be a bit more watchable than your last one.
A big yikes.
The last one was still hilarious.
Just right was, uh, it was on point.
That was the last one, right?
It was my memory failing me.
I guess this super chat for Jay is coming early.
Please give this to J long bone and tell her the moot Titan of karate.
Oh God.
Not this shit again.
That's an inside joke.
When I did my, my boogie, I actually know that stream.
Yeah.
Um, if saying it's moot, your fucking boogie voice was hilarious.
Thanks.
It's moot.
So you kept saying that over again.
You know what?
You guys can go check that out if you want.
It's still there.
I think so.
It's good shit.
I missed you guys almost had an Efap withdrawal.
I'm glad that we can help.
Hello, all my n words.
More.
Are you lazy?
Where are our critiques and rages?
You promised again.
I did address that at the beginning.
It's on the way.
It's really long and it's some of my most proudest of works.
Can't wait to get it out.
Honestly.
Um, new Efap looks like hill house and mind hunter will have to wait.
Uh, yes.
Blessed south boys checking out hill house and mind hunter.
I need to see mind hunter season two.
I've seen season one and everyone should see hell house.
I love that.
Uh-huh.
Yep.
Also high J long bone and metal commander.
Oh, hi.
Oh shit.
J long bones back.
Whoo.
And howdy everybody.
Howdy James.
Something about taking rhino milk from an orphan.
Yeah.
Eventually rude.
Kind of sums up Efap of all.
Um, is there any classic slash widely beloved films or games that you think are objectively bad?
Uh, interstellar was beloved by a shit ton of people when that came out.
My horror.
I think that, um, Bioshock infinite has an objectively bad story.
I think a bioshock is objectively terrible in almost every aspect.
And it was beloved to an insane degree.
When that came out, me and Alex were losing our minds.
Like we were just like, why does everybody fucking love this game?
It makes no sense.
Yeah.
I played this because I love Bioshock one.
One of my favorite games of all time.
I love Bioshock two as well.
This was just such a downgrade in almost every way.
It was so shitty to play.
Like everything about the first two that was good.
Fuck it.
I think people were like blinded by all the nice looking graphics.
Yeah.
I was going to say, uh, Bioshock infinite's reputation has definitely sank since it came out.
Yeah.
I mean, the first time I played, I liked it, but then I replayed it and I fucking hate it.
I thought it was bad after I first played it, but then on future playthroughs,
I started to actually despise it.
Um, I sodomized Ryan Johnson's dead mother.
Wow.
Yay.
Wait, what?
That's interesting.
He paid to say that kind of clear, uh, naming a planet rags ego in no man's sky at the moment.
Yeah, it must be massive.
Uh, hi, Mueller and rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Love you guys more.
Could you give a brief rundown of why you despise Iron Man three?
Um, the plot is utterly ridiculous.
Like there's so much to go over, but I think one of the funniest things is that
he tells Jarvis to plot a course to like the other side of the world.
And then while he's in his suit, he's fighting.
And then he gets knocked, knocked.
He's like under a bunch of shit underwater and he escapes it,
but then he like sort of gets knocked out and then he wakes up to Jarvis taking him to the location.
And he's just like, why?
And you don't get an answer.
And then Jarvis goes crazy and runs out of batteries.
And it's just like, what the fuck?
And so he stranded in this town without his technology.
Apparently you can't call anybody for the whole plot makes no fucking sense.
Um, having Iron Man destroy all of his suits when he's like been so obsessed with protection,
it didn't sit well.
I hated how much they make a joke out of the PTSD that he's experiencing throughout the film.
But, um, thank the Lord that the Russo brothers took it seriously.
As well as Joss Whedon, to an extent, like in Age of Ultron,
you can absolutely argue a lot of his actions are motivated by PTSD.
But, um, Iron Man three, like the fucking end credits scene,
we try to explain why he feels what he feels.
And then they're like, lol, Bruce is falling asleep listening to him.
I was just like, okay, that's fun.
Yeah.
And they kind of wasted Ben Kingsley.
I was really looking to like a straight up.
You know, what's funny about that is that, um,
a lot of people are frustrated because he's like not accurate to the comics.
I was just like, Oh, I was just pissed because I thought he was a great character.
And then they just make it into, Oh, that's another thing.
The fucking villain motivation.
I was on the rooftop waiting for you.
You never came to see me.
Fucking nerd.
Okay.
And do you remember the bit where, um, like they try to figure out why he's taken, uh,
pepper pots and she's like, Oh, I'm a trophy.
And it shows him, he goes, yeah.
I was like, Oh, Jesus Christ.
Like what a shitty villain.
Um, yeah, there's a lot more to it.
I need, I want to make a video on it one day.
Um, but yeah, I hate.
I went through with the passion.
Are any of you wheel of time fans?
Have you heard of it?
But I, I have never read them.
I have never read them either.
Nope.
Never heard of it.
Have you seen their woke casting of the two rivers?
I believe Wolf is a fan of wheel of time series, but again,
or maybe he came out and fringy or just him, but either way.
Yeah.
I do not know anything about it.
I'm afraid.
Good afternoon, Massives.
You guys should check out sheep in a boxes.
Star Wars video.
Perfect.
Ifap material.
Here's some change I found in a dirty shoe.
Who's sheep in a box?
Anyone heard of that?
Can I have your shoes?
Sheep in a box.
Is that a Zootopia thing?
Um, I think he's a Yotoba.
You two sheep in the box.
A shop sticks involved.
To try the box.
Star Wars at the review.
I missed that.
Star Wars video.
I'm like sleuthing right now.
Next level hacking.
Damn.
Getting mad about Star Wars on the internet to own the libs.
I mean, looks like he's doing fine.
It's what's going on there.
Oh, is it like this?
Hang on, I'm just curious what I saw flap.
Are there many surprisingly successful YouTube channels out there?
Oh, I guess he's like responding to a lot of people's criticism, I think.
I'm guessing, do I show up in there at all or no?
I don't know.
Either way, best of luck.
I might check it out at some point just to see what it's about.
Would you rather be paid $1,000 to suck off Patrick
or $1,000,000 to drink Eric's bathwater?
Seerly Mr. Massive.
Well, Eric doesn't bathe.
So this seems like it would be an easy choice to make.
Well, I guess unless that would take that one out of the potentials here.
Unless it was just bodily secretions at that point.
Like he was like his videos are bodily secretions.
But I wouldn't really I'm not on board with either of those.
I don't I don't agree to be forced to do one because
when someone gives you a hypothetical, it means that it would never happen.
And thus you never have to choose.
Oh, hey, that's a question for Jay Longbone.
If you drink someone else's bathwater, do you deserve herpes?
Well, the clear answer is yes.
Way more people say yes than no.
It's fascinating.
Hey, guys.
Rags, what's your take on the fifth element?
I love it.
Yeah, I really like it.
I haven't seen it in a long time now, though, but I loved it when I was a kid, so.
Anybody else have any comments on the fifth element?
I don't want to make it seem like it's just me and rags here or anything.
Yeah, I know.
Oh, go ahead.
I need to watch it again.
I'm always confused by that movie.
Yes, I am.
I loved it back in the day.
I haven't seen it since.
Yes.
Praise rhinos and spiders.
Fair enough.
You should check out Nostalgia Critic's TLJ review.
There was an onslaught of TLJ reviews we still got to check out.
Like, we still got to see Sean's one and Jenny Nichols one or Nicholson.
I can't remember if I always forget which.
I said it wrong in my video, so it feels bad, man.
Hey, guys, you know how Wolf's doing?
It's all in the beginning.
Um, do Kit Kats deserve dignity if they swim in public poo water?
That is a reference to a different stream I was on.
Answer is yes.
Hi, rags.
Here's some weird great money.
Happy also is my favorite Pogo song.
It gives me the smile.
Yeah, it's good stuff.
Um, here you go, metal.
May the dawn bless your heart.
Thanks.
Great.
For what?
Well, Salad King, whenever we do a stream, he actually like,
he tends to donate 10 per person.
I don't know.
And he expects me to cycle it all out to people.
What am I, your gay butler?
Hmm?
That's fucking deep.
Get me drinks when I'm over.
I will.
We'll have lots of drinks.
Oh, yeah, that's gonna be great.
Hey, guys.
Is any of you interested in Warhammer 40k?
Also, hi, rags.
Hello, I am interested in Warhammer 40k.
I am not.
I played a Total War game once in a while, and I like it.
But like in general, I don't really know a lot about it.
I'm not a nerd.
Like, I didn't mean to offend, but.
Shut up.
I don't play a kid.
Jay Longbone.
Welcome back.
It's been some time since you've been on here.
Here's some cashtism.
Oh, thank you.
Oh, I mean, see, there's a thing.
If they super chat to me, they lose 30% or whatever.
And then if I super chat it to you, you lose 30% of it as well.
Just give it to their streams.
They will get to put more money.
Molly, you like Civil War.
Do you like Zemo and why?
I love Zemo because he's entirely a consequence character.
He was created by the Avengers.
And his only goal is to break them apart.
Like they break apart fucking families everywhere because they tend to
quote unquote do their jobs and then leave without concerning themselves with the aftermath.
And that how cold he is in his approach that he just executes all of the frozen winter soldiers
because he knows that they're just going to add things that are worse to the world.
And yet that's like a subversion.
Like the idea that a villain doesn't want bad things to happen.
He just wants to destroy the Avengers because they leave destruction in their wake.
That sort of.
He's like the first villain in the MCU where you're like, oh, he's just like a straight up guy.
And I love the reference that he says greater men have tried
harder than I ever can like to kill you guys and they were unsuccessful.
So I could never do it that way.
Zemo was awesome.
This is objectively the best community slice and dice everyone.
By the way, I got a gaming laptop and I finally realized at age 20, the magic of mouse and keyboard.
Oh, boy.
It's never too late nor early.
It's a super chat.
The super chat was for twenty dollars who killed Epstein.
What are you talking about?
It was clearly a suicide.
Yes, it was an induced suicide from other parties.
Makes sense.
Still suicide.
It was me, baby.
Tell Wolf I love him from fear of Epirus.
Very well.
Will TFA part four come out before episode nine?
Hail Wolf.
TFA part three will probably come out before episode five.
I can't even promise that anymore because I'm running out of time.
There's a bunch of movies coming out that I soon want to cover like Terminator Dark Fate.
And I used to have other ones in my brain, but I've forgotten temporarily because I know how it is.
But this Game of Thrones one took so much longer than I intended to do Game of Thrones episodes
five and six and a season rundown before going back to TFA.
But it's taken so long that I want to do a TFA video after this one now.
I take a while to make videos, but they're also extremely long.
So, you know, what can you do?
But yeah, it's more than likely that the TFA series will now have to incorporate information
from episode nine and I'll have to rewrite them to a degree of where any parts that come out after
episode nine.
So, you know, it's not a it's not a total loss.
It might improve my analysis.
Metal has a flupal dingus.
Hey, man.
It's true.
Sorry, dude.
Movie binge update.
Alien three.
Man, as much as this movie is flawed, I still like Ripley's ending.
It was quite satisfying and fitting.
Yeah, there are things I like about Alien three.
There are also things I fucking despise about it.
Alien resurrection.
Motherfucker.
Why can't we have good things?
Yeah, alien resurrection is a disaster.
Oh, Lee changing history from the school of I hate everything.
Yeah, that's the thing.
When I was watching parts of Major Lee's videos, like pretty sure he conceded that
these things were true when he was talking to us.
But hey, what are you going to do?
Oh, well.
Rags is objectively a fury.
A furry what?
Doggo.
Yes.
Twice the streams.
Double the super chats.
Count Oh, dukens.
My college move in day will be the 24 hour.
Efap.
Well, hey, you can leave us on in the background while you're moving.
Great.
Yeah.
Uh, more.
Look, can you please say I don't use objectively to make my videos dawn.
I use my heart for a meme.
I'll make sure to have it done by 50.
Very well.
Creamy sheave.
There you go.
Worried there wouldn't be any fab this week.
Oh, like I said, we're going to try and go for two.
Once upon a time in Hollywood is objectively bad.
Fringy said he saw it and he liked it.
That's all I know.
I trust free to go.
But I need it.
I was going to see it, but it went out of my cinema.
Like straight away.
It was only like a month.
I was outraged.
I nearly I nearly wrote a letter.
Oh, what?
Which which letter?
A letter.
Yeah.
Well, there's 26.
Which one?
The ones where they have a bunch of them at the same like page, you know, you mail them.
Like you don't feel mail them.
You may don't get them.
If you mail something is that sounds kind of gay.
If you mail something to someone else.
I emailed it.
I emailed it.
Okay, Jesus.
Oh, rag.
I want you to sexually harass me on the couch stairs and the hand on the brown table.
Because you want you going to you going to sort that out or what?
Those from salad King, by the way.
Really depends on how much of a fan of salad you are, I suppose.
All right, then.
Do not deny sending good wishes to wolf.
Hope he's all right.
Very much from the animators of the Lion King live action film.
Judy Hoppe photo realistic erotica or facial expressions.
Oh, no, stop already exists.
I'm telling you just.
Oh, yeah, definitely.
What's the dog?
Once the dawn movie comes out, we will be wrecked for all films.
I feel like nothing in comparison.
Oh, yeah, nothing would be the dawn movie.
I'm just going to do that.
There was one that came through streamlines.
Love from Israel.
Here are some actual genuine real objective shekels.
No, really.
Please send my love to Wolf.
Miss him, but he should do whatever's best for him in his health.
If it means we never see him again, that's okay.
Well, yeah, he's he's he's definitely on on a good path right now.
A brown table made a Zootopia fan film called Return to Zootopia.
That's what that frame is from.
Oh, my goodness.
He made a fanfic from Zootopia.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
We know what he gets off to.
Good rat bad rag.
Tell that dirty, dirty philosophy.
Bitch and saga.
I wouldn't even super chat him.
Savage also.
Hi, reg.
Hello.
Not to play college professor, but define your terms.
Yeah, I know right.
Indeed.
And from Anthony Keene.
Hi, rags.
Hello.
Can rats be objectively bad?
Hmm.
I guess if you overcook it.
Yeah, yeah.
If you burn it or.
We had that helpful explanation just earlier from that from that meme.
That was a really good way of.
Movie binge update.
Speaking of good rats, I watched The Green Mile.
Mr. Bojangles is a good boy, but I was not expecting that magic.
Shit.
Oh, my lord.
I laughed so hard at that.
Oh, well, I love green mile.
It's awesome.
Good point.
That's a movie.
I want to rewatch my list is getting even longer.
Hooray.
And this is from Pliskid.
He has a Zootopia fan film on his channel.
It is his.
I guess I never would have expected that.
That's amazing.
I have a challenge.
Look at total drama fetish art on deviant art and then try to say artist objective.
I don't.
I don't want to touch that with an eleventeen foot pole.
Our professor told me to be objective once.
Not kidding.
I mean, they will sometimes on the right context that if you push them, they might go.
I was just.
Me and.
Bring you were watching someone's video.
I don't quite remember who.
But he the person said, you can't judge this because it's too subjective.
And it was like an arbitrary point about filmmaking.
And it was funny because the content creator themselves were like so
fervent in everything being subjective.
And we talked about how, like, I feel like even the people who say that everything is
subjective don't agree with it.
Like, they'll be like, oh, well, no, there's something.
There's some things.
There's always some things we know.
And it's like, as soon as you cross the line, it's just a matter of how much
knowledge you have on each craft at that point, then.
Like, there's no point in the words, objective and subject of that point,
right, in relation to art, because everything is subjective.
So why use them?
I'm glad you all agree.
Is there a go.
I can't give you a second.
I'll be right back.
Is there a go fund me or something to set up to help Wolf and his medical bills?
I don't believe so.
And I don't think Wolf would want to do that.
No, and him also my middle name is Alan.
Does wife crack owe me money?
Oh, I guess the wise crack did kind of disparage the Allens of the world.
It's true.
Were you there for that metal?
I have a weird memory of you being the one we were looking at the the trailer.
Oh, no, that was just I don't think you came on.
It was boxes and cynic snacks.
You came on for when everyone abandoned me, didn't you?
Uh, yes, but it was like right at the end, but it was just doing super chats.
Rescue massive.
Massives.
I want to see a fire emblem play through each decision is done
through two to two out of three agreements by the members present.
I rags Mallor and Walf.
I say hello on behalf of all three.
This reminds me of be high.
Cheek sent me high.
I remember telling you about that on your stream.
Fucking he referenced like a dude for quote his day was pronounced be high.
Cheek sent me high.
Oh, right.
Yeah, I don't know that.
I need to become an English teacher and smack sense into these guys.
How dare you?
They were talking complete sense.
Point of personal privilege.
Your mocking laughter at marks is triggering me.
When someone just casually references it.
Just thinking about that makes me laugh.
My love goes out to Wolf.
Thank you very much.
SJW coworker just came up to me in a panic.
There's a neo Nazi here asks how he knows says the guy sporting fascist imagery asked
to point out this Nazi to me guys wearing a Warhammer 40k shit.
I mean, some of it is very suggestive.
What's damn fascists?
There is a teenager who makes and wears his own Victorian clothes.
Your argument is invalid brown table.
I didn't get that argument at all.
Anyway, I'm not entirely sure what he was trying to say that we couldn't have.
I don't know.
We should have him on sometime.
It's great to see all you beautiful hate mongers today.
I hope you've all been keeping well.
Also, high molar.
Hello there.
You can't replicate classical paintings because you do not have access to mummy brown,
a pigment that is made, which is made mummies.
No joke, this existed.
Amen.
If it was like made from mummies or whatever, it doesn't mean we can't do it.
It just might be unethical.
Might be.
I wonder if once we get access to like other planets,
that everyone's going to rush to kill people on them because
the jurisdiction won't be punishable.
There'll be no laws.
You kidnap someone, take them to bars, kill them.
Jeff Hicks annihilated Mario in this debate pre-TLJ in a debate.
I'm not Jeff Hicks.
Mario.
Mario.
Oh, there was a high rags and he's not going to be able to hear it.
I feel bad.
Shit.
Watch the last airbender.
You'll see some bad long takes.
Oh, all right.
I'm interested to see what the bad long takes would actually be, honestly.
What if this impossible scenario that doesn't even support my argument was a thing?
Checkmate atheist.
He tried.
Roundtable.
Hi rags.
What is your new blocked video rags?
Bye rags.
All right, I'll copy that.
Ready for him.
Oh, Mr. Rags missing out on a question.
There I was watching Lord of the Rings when Bilbo Baggins told me we need
to seize the means of production and Goliath said make it so.
I don't remember that happening.
I think it might be a brown table fanfic.
I thought they were going to go with an extra credits reference with that one,
but I was wrong.
You did a response to that, didn't you?
Um, I can't remember what the video was called.
Don't stop normalizing Nazis.
That was it.
JL.
Oh, right.
Yeah, that was me.
It was good shit.
Oh, thank you.
The robot thing.
That I only do that when I don't want to do a committed video on it.
And of course, the robot voice represents how detached I am from that bullshit.
That video was responded to like by everybody.
Nobody had a good response to it.
It was fucking frustrating for everybody.
But, uh, yeah, we got it was like a five minute video.
We spent like fucking two hours on it for Efap.
It took a while because they weren't exactly accurate.
Let's just put it that way.
Um, I'm all around guests.
Did you see the Top Gun 2 trailer excited or another sequel?
No one needs.
I don't really care that much about Top Gun.
I like Top Gun.
It's fine and everything.
But like the sequel, I have no feelings on it whatsoever.
Like fucking planes.
Who cares?
You're a gay robot.
How do you not care about this?
Oh, no.
Um, you care about Top Gun ranks?
No.
I'm sorry.
We're a terrible selection to ask.
I haven't seen anything.
Um, the other question you missed was, uh, where is your new blocked video?
I'm guessing they wanted to know what it was rather than why.
Mine.
Oh, it's I'm gonna I'm gonna put it out tomorrow because I think I'll be in the clear.
It's still monetized and everything.
And I think this content claim that's on it is the most fraudulent thing in the universe.
So, um, yeah, I'm gonna go ahead and release it tomorrow.
And it'll be premiered.
I haven't I haven't premiered a video yet.
So this will kind of be the first.
And I've already started on a brown table response.
Lovely.
And as you saw today, brown table just good takes on some good days.
We've got it.
There was a there was a video I've already prepped that was really bad for brown table.
And I was like, Oh, we could do it today.
But I was like, No, I'm gonna save it for the for the 50th.
It's like, Oh, jeez, brown table.
It is like quickly becoming a regular beef app.
I don't know if he's aware of that yet.
But it's always fun when they find out.
Um, still working.
So I'll have to watch on the channel later.
Give the money to Wolf.
If rags is still there.
What's his opinion of the Xbox Ultimate Game Pass?
It comes with games for computer and Xbox.
Oh, good.
I mean, I don't know the price or any of the stipulations.
But that sounds like that sounds nifty.
I'm glad they're kind of unifying the two.
I think it's pretty good.
I have it.
Yeah, I can absolutely believe that a good game pass can be a great thing.
Like the first month was obviously like for like just for growth.
It was like one one euro for me or something or something super cheap.
And I think like the next one was like six or something.
I should check.
But it's like a lot of good games.
Like I was able to play Metro because of that, which I liked.
Because the newest Metro was actually pretty, pretty fucking good.
I played it on my stream and I really enjoyed it.
Orphan and bathwater question.
All right.
Yeah.
So Jay Longbone.
Do orphans deserve to be loved?
I'm gonna have to contemplate this.
This is a fucking softball.
I was gonna say I know it's a simple question with an obvious answer.
It's appropriate because you're a girl.
Yeah, you think I like kids because I'm fucking cock.
Liking children is a side of the gay.
Do you enjoy the presence of adolescents?
You might be a intellectual.
Consoling your doctor today.
My love goes out to Wolf in his struggle.
Let him know he can DM me in the discord for someone who's willing to talk with him.
That goes for Alan and chat.
My life is devoted for these.
Very well, it's from H Steiner.
I haven't seen any Star Wars movies.
Should I even bother by now?
Yeah, go see.
Yeah, the originals are great.
The prequels are there as well as an option.
Yeah, you could call them supplementary content.
It's nice to have them, you know.
Don't watch the sequels.
Well, maybe Rogue One.
You could probably get away with that.
It's all right.
Just skip to the last 30 minutes.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Would a bad long take be TLJ throne room fight?
Oh.
Yeah.
You know, thinking about it.
Yeah, like what makes a long take good or bad is typically all of the other elements
being maintained during the long take.
Like all the other pieces of crap working.
But like, you know, if you had a terrible actor
flubbing all their lines and forgetting them during a long take,
it wouldn't fucking matter that it was a long take.
Same with choreography or having certain like events
take place in the right times, like special effects and stuff.
So yeah, I suppose that's how you do it.
Get off Efap and finish Game of Thrones, Mauler.
Let me have one.
Let me have one day per week.
Just one.
No, no.
Loud Soup is my favorite Chinese philosopher.
Rags.
Rags, you didn't buy Kenshi, you dummy.
Don't worry.
It's on my list of things to do.
What's that?
What is that?
I promise.
I haven't got a lot.
Got a lot on the list.
Things to do.
All right.
This guy has a video called Aquaman, a conservative masterpiece
and Cobra Kai's politics exposing leftism and the gay agenda.
Oh, the gays again.
Here we go.
Oh my god, there's even one there's even one that
examines the gay relationship between Khan and Kirk.
I like while doing it, it's just always assumed it's a bad thing.
It's just like the gay.
It's bad.
You're like, okay.
That channel is a fucking gold mine.
I'll tell you.
PowerPoint equals all of your points are automatically wrong.
No, no, no.
I'll please.
Mauler, we were insulting that as well as literally everything.
Mauler, if I pull that mask off, it will be a will be a face reveal
is a second mask.
Oh, it works.
Face reveal.
Lol using the dumb death star cameo and return of the Sith as a week
to return to the revenge of the Sith.
God damn it.
As a weak point of new hope.
I think that's where he's going at least.
Yeah, that's actually a good point to judge the creation of the death star
based on information you've got from revenge of the Sith.
Highlighting it as a contradiction.
Then in future OT films, you'll be like, well, no, the contradiction
would then be in in revenge of the Sith in the same way that
you can't have holdo do the bullshit with the hyperdrive
and then say all of the other films fucked up by not doing it.
It's like, no, this one fucked up by doing it.
So that's interesting.
If you were to call it a flaw.
Behind the mask is another mask.
Oh, I see.
Brandon horn knows what's up.
I'm from Alex talking homosexual.
Yeah, I think there'd be an argument there.
He probably makes that video.
It follows.
It just follows.
First time here.
Love the format.
I'm glad you do down the fireman.
I mean, our format is, you know, it takes a hell of a lot of work
to get the faces on screen and to pause every frame.
I don't know that anyone else has the ability to.
We've revolutionized the genre.
Talking was a grand off, which is something like a mix
between a five star general and a governor.
Vader is basically a four star general rags Mr. Rank.
Oh, I well, a grand off doesn't exist within the
the military structure of the U.S., which is what I was using.
Which is as far as I'm aware, a grand off.
I don't know.
Find something building a complex.
Also, there's not going to be a grant.
If that's what a grand off is, we're not going to have the
United States because our we have a separation between, you know,
our military and the government.
You're not going to have someone who's both a general and a governor.
Apparently, a five star isn't a current rank either.
According to you have to be in wartime.
Yes, it's only in wartime.
Oh, wow. Building a complex piece of equipment usually takes much less time
after the first because of all the industry, manufacturing
and skill required to build the first is now in place and ready to be used.
Yeah. And like I said, it seemed to me that the biggest hurdle
was getting the laser itself to function.
And so once you do that, you could probably replicate it.
Much easier than, you know, which again sort of is what you said.
Every generation since then has gold bikini fantasies
because Carrie Fisher was only a six.
Oh, I guess they're saying like, yeah, she totally wasn't hot.
She totally wasn't iconic in her bikini for like years.
Oh, yeah, don't worry. That is total bunk.
I mean, I would rather talk to this guy than brown table.
I think I agree with Rags.
I think that he would be greater.
He would definitely be greater in small doses.
Yeah, like you would become one note really quickly
if you just kept saying that everything was gay.
Like you eventually his arc would be that he'd be gay at the end of the story.
He wants to embrace his gain.
If this dude is a troll, he's my favorite person.
I don't think he's a troll, but it would be great.
Major Lee, you get to look at women.
This dude leading actress, hot horseshoe theory in action.
Yeah, they both fall on either side.
I suppose I could.
I could see a video from Major Lee and that guy put together as being something
informative telling, if you will.
If you become an orphan when your parents die,
is it only logical that you also become an orphan if your planet dies?
These are the questions.
I guess it depends on your age.
What did we conclude?
You have to legally own your own blood.
And that's when you're not an orphan.
I think that's what we concluded.
The dynasties were not locked at territory.
In Europe, states changed dynasties repeatedly throughout history
and nations like Germany still have a royal family, even though they have no throne.
Yeah, like I said, if it's based on lineages and bloodlines,
then you don't have to currently be presiding a ruling over anything.
You still have royal blood.
What if your entire planet was distracted, baited?
What about then?
I know.
Sure.
Much European royalty no longer have their positions.
Ex-presidents still get called Mr. President.
I mean, the Queen of England doesn't wiggle England, but she's still the Queen.
I actually got a little bit confused about that in the debates when they were like,
Mr. Vice President, but when I was like,
who's the Vice President anymore?
Like, oh, wait, you get called that forever.
You could have like, if they lived long enough,
you could have like seven guys who were all Mr. President, if they're not president.
That's that's how respect goes, guys.
OK, in that position.
Oh, hey, guys, I got I got it back out for like 20 or 30 minutes.
No problemo.
Oh, wait, before you go, in case we end the stream,
but then do you want to talk about your channel real quick?
Oh, oh, yeah.
Well, I make trailer reactions, movie reviews, commentary videos.
You know, I got I have a unicorn store review coming up pretty soon.
I'm almost done writing it.
And I have to record it in a few days, I guess.
And I got some other videos coming.
I'm going to make a review of all these I've seen this summer.
And that's going to I don't know when that's going to be.
It's like a big video.
Yeah, I have to watch rewatch all of them.
And I'm not even done watching all of them anyways.
Yeah, but yeah, look for that.
And possibly a predator, you know, the predator 2018 review.
Jesus, but but it's not going to be like it's not going to be a
straight up pair and contrast between the original three predator films
and that and what what makes a good predator movie and how the 2018 version fucked it up.
Well, yeah, I was going to say, there's there's a lot of I recommend people get
started with your Quentin video.
Just search Jay Longbone, Quentin.
You'll laugh your ass off and then you'll be like, I'll check out other stuff,
which is a great intro because he's like one of the favorite villains of Efap.
He's been gone for a while.
We'll definitely get a quiz video for 50 though, guys.
Don't panic.
Yeah, it's been fun having you here.
Like I said, we're probably going to be finishing up before you get back.
But if you're back, we'll we'll we'll maybe do some more stuff tonight.
Who knows?
Okay.
See you guys later.
Bye bye.
Bye bye.
What a gay robot.
Giddy.
The beautiful thing about this video is that pretty much all Star Wars fans
on all sides of the divide would be united in disdain of this video.
Pretty much.
Yeah, I think so.
Except obviously he he wouldn't be in disdain of the video.
And he's a Star Wars fan, baby.
Judy hopsticks.
Yes, accurate.
I still strongly prefer the nuanced opinions of the Appalachian white male over brown table.
Um, I take what I see brown table could totally guess in this podcast and it would be hilarious.
Well, that guy that guy guessing here would be I don't even know what we'd expect.
We would just be in awe.
This is from James Moore.
Okay, is this guy a tism or something?
What the fuck?
Sounds like a child.
Are you ever going to efap to bad Maddox videos?
There's nothing inherently wrong with being a cuckold.
Who's Maddox?
Um, it depends on how you define inherently.
Who's Maddox?
Interesting.
Did I hit him?
Maddox.
Uh, no, I haven't got a video called.
You don't know what a cuck is.
I know it's definitely a very commonly misused term.
The rise and fall of Maddox, the loser.
I've never even heard of him, but I agree.
Yeah, I've never.
Um, maybe if you have a half mullet, you are not cool.
Bilbo fat in the truth is the truth.
Did Luke not eat Yoda's gross swamp soup in Empire because it was too loud?
That's probably what it was.
I think that was foreshadowing.
That's loud soup.
Would y'all rather have Superman's powers or Iron Man's armor?
Also, please send Wolf my best regards.
I think anybody would choose Superman's power over Iron Man's armor, wouldn't they?
Yeah, because I could I could take a shower and still be Superman.
That's the main thing.
Then Toady's like, oh, it's still a shower in the suit.
You're like, it's not the same.
It's not the same.
It just isn't the same.
It doesn't get it.
You don't get to be free.
Oh, this reminds me of socialism because art is like food.
You don't get it.
Yeah, I get it.
Yeah.
Well, not food.
Well, not food, but I get the jokes.
Very good.
Jeffrey Epstein.
Now we don't talk about him.
He dared.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
Remember, guys, we don't want to talk about anyone who's died.
Just got in a car accident.
Can I hold Ryan Johnson responsible?
Yes.
He's more machine now than man.
Goddamn Obi-Wan and his riddles.
What could he have meant?
Uh, he is black while he's a bad guy.
But as soon as he redeems himself, he becomes white.
Oh, yeah, that's what that's.
I remember people saying that.
In fairness, though, he was a white guy under the suit the whole time.
David Prowse was a white guy, right?
Believe.
James Earl Jones was the voice the whole time.
Well, I guess he wasn't the voice at the end.
But Darth Vader was in 1997 and Robocop is 1987, but he says he's a ripoff.
This has to be a troll.
Uh, I guess if you were to ask him to define ripoff, he might say like a bad vision of
or that they improved him.
Because, yeah, that doesn't make any sense.
Pre-Disney Leia eventually became a Jedi master.
Well, he's clearly only talking about the OT.
She's a bad.
Thank you so much for all your work, guys.
Any thoughts on Sekiro?
Metal, take the floor.
It is a good.
There we go.
Do you care to elaborate?
Yeah, I haven't played it and I don't think Rags has either.
Yeah, go ahead.
That's fine.
I know I really like it.
You can tell it's it's a Dark Souls ish game, but it feels very different.
It's way, way faster, even faster than Bloodborne, I would say.
But it does not have that much replayability because you're pretty limited with your choices.
You can do.
I mean, you always have the sword pretty much.
And then you have like your grapple arm, which you can get different weapons for.
And you can build your class around that if you want to, but mostly for using your sword.
Yeah, but I would recommend it.
It's fun.
Fun play proof.
Is that like seven out of 10?
What you just said?
Eight out of 10?
One out of 10.
Seven million out of Flunkldinguses.
Oh, my.
Darth Darth Vader sounds suspiciously black.
I know that reference.
Hey, Jay Longbone, just subbed to you because of June shoe on head.
What a coincidence to see you here.
She did shout her out in the recent video.
Oh, hey, what did you do?
Oh, well, she left, but I think she shouted her out for.
Yeah, I can't remember.
It was covering something in particular, but yeah, it was pretty cool because I watched
you on head and then I was like, oh, fuck, Jay Longbone.
How about it?
And that was actually after she'd already agreed to guest on here.
So I was like, what a coinky dinkle.
I like this guy's literally special needs.
I don't know what else to say.
It's kind of sad to listen to and make fun of a person of his IQ level.
You can't just say that.
Like the guy is probably like, you know, fucking thinks what he just said is completely rational.
And then someone just comes up to you just like, oh, he's special needs.
Excuse you.
But, you know, again, it's like the whole we listened to his arguments.
They weren't very good.
He's welcome to carry on doing what he does.
Actually, I don't even know.
What do you reckon would YouTube ban his channel if they knew about it?
Because of the fact that he like puts homosexuals into the category of deviant.
I probably hate speech or something.
I could see that happening.
Yeah, definitely.
I think YouTube have banned people for less.
You guys should watch video titled Gumbles SJW battle.
It's only one minute long.
Has funny milk.
Also high rags.
Hello.
Are you top or bottom for personal reasons?
I'm a bit of a switch.
Honestly, it depends on who I'm with.
I end up bottoming a lot, though.
Things just sort of work out a certain way.
All your mom's gay.
Also high rags.
Hello.
How did you know that?
Can you use the force to summon some big titties,
Succubi girlfriend?
I'm not going to say no.
No interest.
With that guy's IQ, he's unarmed and extremely dangerous.
I like that one.
Astafarianism is an official religion.
And as a result, one can, in the US at least,
wear a colander on your head in your driver's license photo.
I mean, you've got to respect religions, all right?
People's beliefs.
You're going to tell that man that he cannot
put a colander on his head?
Is that what you're going to do?
Whatever you get.
Mauler, the Jedi cosplayer from the sixth point in that guy's video
is a Christian apologetics book about Star Wars.
Wisdom of the Jedi.
Look it up.
Christian apologetics book about Star Wars.
Interesting.
Maybe there's like, maybe, well, you know how fickle religion is.
Maybe it's very, it's a book that's centered around
how conducive to Christianity it is about how much it.
Well, the point was that it was like anti-Christians.
Yells with Christianity.
Those who will carry on the will of those who have passed
must keep moving forward.
Giorno Giovanna.
Who dat?
Sure.
Oh.
I put down agreements.
He's from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure.
Okay.
Fucking animus dudes.
Most people don't know what a Y chromosome is.
It's true.
That's probably a lot of people who don't.
What?
Why?
I don't know.
There's a lot of people who weren't taught things.
Why?
That's very true.
Because of evil.
Bilbology dictates that wings are gay and confuse me.
Bilbology.
Contact your local and state space Titian to stop X-Wing marriage.
If only that would work.
Hey, I'm about to try and upload a longer video than usual.
So I'm wondering if anyone has any advice for avoiding slash dealing with copyright ID.
Cheers.
Stay under eight seconds of any clip.
And if you're using music, you need to talk over it.
Otherwise, you're probably going to get slapped as well.
Other than that, upload, get a knockdown, figure out why,
and then try and avoid doing that thing in future.
That's how I did it.
No cloud milk until you finish your loud soup.
What? I could hear you.
Cloud milk.
That is all.
I think the US Navy do have working laser weapons.
Oh, I have not seen laser weapons myself, but I can believe it.
I'm relatively new to EFAB, but I'm going to miss seeing Wolf on here.
I'm glad he's focusing on himself and wish him the best and hope he comes back one day.
I mean, all the episodes are still up.
Like, good shit if you watch through them.
I've got to do it because I want to make a highlights video for like every 10 episodes.
A pretty risky endeavor, considering how many fucking episodes there are already.
But it's good shit.
Like, if you like the later episodes, you're going to like the older ones.
And yeah, there's loads of Wolf content.
And there is still some to come.
I got to edit some EFAB movies we did that I think me, Rags on Wolf, will want to see again,
to be honest.
That shit was...
I don't want to hype it up, but it was pretty funny.
Jay should replace Wolf in the interim.
All in favor, say Rhino Milk.
That's racist because Jay is a black man.
Wolf is not.
So could you suggest something?
Bone Tomahawk.
Unbridled praise when?
Love to Wolf.
Bone Tomahawk.
Bone Tomahawk.
I do not know.
Expecting it's like a Bad B movie or something.
Oh, it's got Kurt Russell in it.
Bone Tomahawk.
Maybe it's good.
I've never heard of it.
I don't know.
Maybe.
Mauler must be a giant war mac since BattleTech has Maulers.
I mean, if the boot fits.
Um, Empire Blows a...
There is a snake in my boot.
Empire Blows of Alderaan.
In my opinion, the rebels are evil and also gay.
This fucking guy has to be a prime example of how religion and politics can warp someone's
view to be so shit, man.
He's insane or special needs or both.
That was from James Moore again.
He's like losing his mind listening to the guy.
This guy makes me excited for the future of Efap.
I mean, fuck.
We need some time off, but we'll probably cover him again one day, baby.
Um, what motivates the rebels?
Rebels.
The Empire blew up an entire planet and we don't want that to happen again.
They have no cause at all.
The planet part was, you know, are you homosexualoid?
It's a question we have to ask ourselves every day.
Rags.
What do gay people do again?
They have sex with the men.
They have the attraction to the men, to their own genders, of which there are two.
Do you think Tywin is a power bottom or a top?
Oh, he's a fucking power top.
He's doesn't both at the same time.
It's amazing.
Can Remarkable Republican be the new Jared?
He does.
He has charity vibes.
Remarkable Republican is Boomer posting.
Come on.
I have to respect Boomer posting to somebody.
Are you gay, Tywin?
Who says I'm gay?
Are you are gay?
Oh, Tywin wouldn't take that shit.
Fuck him up.
Have you heard of Carnival Row or the Dark Crystal series?
If not, check out the trailers for them.
We'd love to hear your thoughts on them.
I have not heard of either of those.
I know that Dark Crystal is a movie.
Dark Crystal is a movie.
Yeah.
What I meant is Dark Crystal series.
That's the TV show.
Is it coming out?
I think it's like a remake.
I didn't know there was a TV series for it.
I think there is.
Wolf is interested.
He likes the Dark Crystal movie.
I haven't seen the Dark Crystal movie in so long, but I might check it all out.
I don't know what Carnival Row is, though.
Finally caught an eFap two hours into it instead of seven.
I was wondering why my bank account was doing so well this month.
Uh-oh.
Incest isn't accepted in Game of Thrones.
It's what the entire plot revolves around.
I mean, yes, to a degree.
Like, they're shameful of it with the Lannisters because it'll fuck up.
It's less to do with the incest, more to do with the fact that the rightful ears are bastards.
But still, Incest is not exactly mildly faced upon.
But the Targaryens ruled with it being like almost fucking mandatory for a long time.
So, you know, for the wammin'ly ruse donation box, also heart to wolf, I thank you.
Glory gets you women.
Women you get to look at.
It's a perfect thing.
The cycle continues.
Losing World War I made Germany gay.
I'm sorry, though.
I can't approve.
The gays are everywhere.
Did this guy forget Alexander the Great was gay,
and so was his father, and a bunch of Romans as well.
That was just a myth.
This guy's head is emptier than Brown Table's birthday party.
It all fits.
It's gonna be part of the lore.
I don't understand that one.
Oh, right.
Yeah, you weren't there for that.
Don't worry.
It all fits.
It's gonna be a super chat staple from now.
I mean, he's not...
I could've sworn someone else has said something similar to that before
because we had the meme with Charlie from...
It's Always Sunny.
I think the one was saying it all makes sense or something like that.
It could've been Brown Table again, actually, as well.
Oh, well.
I guess it was Remarkable Republican.
Remarkable Republican is to efap what Wild Bill of America was to drunken peasants.
Get him on the show and integrate him into the lore.
I mean, we'll have a bod if he really wants to go bod.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Bye, Rags.
Goodbye.
I love this guy.
Please make him the new Jared Jettis.
Why does everyone keep saying that?
You know, it's a really bad sign.
If people are saying about your content, you should be the new Jared Jettis.
Oh, man.
Jared appreciated.
But yeah, I was gonna say that's...
I think that's like two thirds, maybe three quarters of the super chats.
The plan is to actually run a second episode tonight.
So I'm gonna cut it there.
We're gonna take a break and then we shall return.
If for any reason we don't return, it's because plans changed for some reason.
Don't panic.
The whole point is to make it so that we definitely get to efap 50 on the 22nd.
Thank you very much.
If there's any extra memes, I'll sort it out for the next episode.
No panic-ies.
And super chats will be read for the next one as well.
So don't worry.
We will be back.
We're gonna take a break.
It's not gonna be a secret part two.
It'll be public.
Well, you know, I have no idea what we're covering or what guest they'll be.
It's gonna be amazing.
So it'll be at least a half hour break at most an hour.
All right.
We will come back on this channel.
I'll see you guys there.
Thank you for the donations and for the guests.
I feel like I should probably quickly say that yes.
Jay Longbone's channel is linked in the description.
She was here for the majority of this and Metal Stream.
You can catch him streaming currently.
What are you doing right now?
I'm currently replaying God of War, the newest one.
I think you like that.
That's so if you like that.
Oh yeah.
Also go and check his channel's latest streams and you'll find one that me and Rags were on
for a while where some funny shit happened.
It was very funny.
It was very, very funny.
I plan on re-releasing it onto Moolah.
It's gonna be good shit.
Possibly.
Yeah.
That about sums it up.
Is there anything else you guys want to say?
I guess not for now.
I guess we could save it for another time.
I guess soon.
Very soon in fact.
Go watch that VOD.
That was really funny.
Like seriously, it was so great.
Oh right.
People say it's a short efap.
Four hours is like, that's like full podcast for some people.
And we're trying to do another one too.
Jesus.
Anyway.
Yeah, we'll see you guys soon enough.
Goodbye for now.
Bye-bye.
