Um, so now someone said someone in chat, which means this must be working.
Oh, I hope so.
This is waiting for broadcast to be published.
How the hell could it be not published while someone's still talking?
It went live this time.
Is everyone just having issues with streaming?
It went live this time.
The first two times it just said no, for the third time it just works.
Why?
Well, they just really wanted to make sure that you were sure.
Not annoyed at all.
You wanted to be certain that this is something you actually wanted to do.
They didn't want you to jump into anything, you know, prematurely.
All right.
Well, that's asking for your consent smaller, but it didn't just said no.
Well, it wasn't giving you it.
It's, it's finally decided to give you its consent.
Trying to teach me here that if ever anyone says no, I just have to keep asking.
That's terrible.
You keep asking to get the answer you want to hear.
Oh, no.
And then after that, presumably become violent.
Oh, God, I guess that's why YouTube allows Amnesia on this day around.
Oh, who knows how long?
Didn't he have like a isn't he deciding to not be on YouTube anymore or something?
That would be for the best.
I imagine.
Run while you still.
That would be shocked if he did that, since this is his only source of income.
True.
Surely he's saying.
I would honestly be a little disappointed because I want it to get to the point
where Chris Hansen just like comes into his house and asks him.
Well, he is from behind one of his walls.
Yeah, or he just melts through the wall.
And that sounds like the ghost of Chris Hansen haunting Onision
in his own home would be fucking amazing.
Yeah, he's like he's been popular on YouTube now for like,
he's one of the longest running.
Well, he hasn't exactly been popular.
Well, popular as in gets views, not like he's not fated.
Nobody fucking likes Onision as far as I'm aware.
It's like poetry that Chris Hansen is the one that comes to take him down.
Where is Onision doing that?
Chris Hansen was concerned with.
What isn't Onision doing that Chris Hansen is concerned with
is what you should be asking for reference.
There are three streams on my channel right now,
two of them non live, one of them live or so to unlist the others
because YouTube is really clever.
It puts them up and then says I can't stream,
then puts another one up says I can't stream puts a third one up and says,
yeah, that's OK.
You have to do it in threes, guys, it all makes sense now to change the thumbnail
and then everything is perfect. OK.
So this works.
Someone in the chat just said you have two streams public that aren't to this one.
Yeah, that should be fixed in the next few minutes.
Same with the thumbnail. Oh, no.
It's OK. The people who come here like six hours from now
won't know the difference.
Yeah. So streaming on YouTube is kind of like when you're
drinking from a glass and it's just the ice left.
And there's a little bit of drink left.
And so you tilt it and tilt it and tilt it.
And then all of a sudden avalanche. Yeah, that's kind of.
And you swallow a whole cube by accident and you feel like shit.
Yeah, goes down into your lungs and die.
All of a sudden, three streams.
I don't think I've ever swallowed an entire ice cube by accident.
What if an ice cube went into your lungs?
Would you just straight up die?
How would it go into your lungs?
You got this hole in your throat that leads to your lungs.
That's the one we have.
You humans have an incredible one pipe design
and sometimes it could cause some issues.
Shut up, right? It's perfect.
OK. It's very, very scary.
There's literally nothing that can go wrong with any of the pieces of design
about the human body.
I like that if evolution was a person, you'd be like, you did OK, but you did.
You know, I guess it works.
It works, but he's like, look at all the other stuff.
You guys are lucky. You're like, well, can't fly, but OK.
And then he'd probably argue that we can fly with technology
and then we just split in hairs.
So, yes, it is live now.
The thumbnail is correct.
There's only one stream.
Everything is operating as intended.
And as far as I'm aware, my Internet should survive.
That's not even on guarantee.
So let's just hope we can sail all the way to 11 hours and 55 minutes
on this wonderful Christmas themed
eFap, which I don't even think we've managed to get one of them yet, right?
But not one. Not one.
We got we need to do another one like suit after this.
That we've got the Rise of Skywalker one.
It'll be fine.
Rise of Skywalker one.
Our lives will be changed.
Oh, yes. It will.
It will consume a fewer every waking hour.
The excitement is through said roof.
You guys can watch it so I don't have to.
Oh, no, we'll be the nostalgia critic.
We watched it so you don't have to.
I remember it so you don't have to.
You ever read, like, into the whole the controversy behind all the stuff
I have my channel or some apparently like when they were filming this shit
for different roles, he would like tell people they need to act more like
cartoon characters to be entertaining to appeal to people.
They need to be like bouncy and high pitched and stuff.
I was just saying to myself, like, if I was on set and you told me to do that,
I'd be like, fucking hell.
Be like, I don't know.
Should we like do a poll with people?
Because I don't know if that's really true.
I would just be like, maybe it works to have someone to bounce off.
Who is that? You know, mix it up.
I love that. That's what his stipulation was for them.
But then you watch his videos and they're fucking horrible.
Like those skits are just terrible.
And they've kept them going for like a decade.
It's crazy. In fact, there's more now than there ever was with the crazy new
like he's hired a whole cast and at the warehouse.
I don't know, man, he's committing to those skits.
They're not good.
Like Red Letter Media, when setting up reviewing some crappy film,
we'll have skits that are like 10 times better.
I'm just thinking about anything with Rich Evans.
Someone in the chat said, I saw The Last Jedi again.
It didn't improve for the second viewing.
I love the third one. The third one's the important one.
The third one, you won't even be bored.
That wasn't even covered on eFap, that video, right?
We never actually did it.
I hate everything, but that meme spread over.
It's a really stupid quote.
It's just well, it doesn't tell you anything.
OK, I wonder if people are consistently bored with like the room.
Does that mean it's good?
Ah, you have to be bored by the room.
That's what that's my point.
If you're not bored by the third watching of the room, that means it's good.
It's the best thing of them all.
I don't know if you were watching the room alone.
The thumbnail is not wrong, I am outraged.
At least it's not for me, which is all the room is wrong,
then I don't want to be right.
I can check from an unbiased source.
Yes, the thumbnail is correct.
Refreshing is around.
All right, we've got what you would call a long show planned for today.
So I would say that we're probably just going to get get right into it.
Get get the old wheels turning, as they say.
We're going to start with a look into a video that fucking everybody's been telling me about.
And I'm not even talking about that stream that me and Rags did
where loads of the Super Chats are talking about this video.
No more like Twitter and stuff.
This is I've had people say this has changed their mind on TLJ.
This is this going to be a bad movie to think in this.
This movie is not so bad, actually, with this video.
It's it's relatively new.
It's what you could call a hot take, I suppose,
to try and explore the positives of TLJ.
That's what I've heard. So you guys excited?
I'm really excited for another one of these videos trying to tell us that.
No, no, no, guys, it's TLJ is actually really good.
Well, you know, have you heard every argument?
Can you say? No, you can't.
No. So color me excited.
I'm going to learn some check sparrow feet.
Michael Bolton.
No, that's that's that's they're trying to prevent us
from seeing whatever this video is, but Jack's personally not as nice
as as funny pandas, epic laughs.
Well, hard to beat them for being completely honest.
Let's see for gentlemen of the year.
That's another classic.
Well, this is it up for both of you?
Yeah, but it's at 31 minutes.
Yeah, it does have a lot of videos like skipping them around.
Um, there's a few ranks at zero.
It is at zero, correct?
How I think we should we should mention that was the shortest intro
we've ever had on the we've got no time for an intro.
We'll be busy.
We've only got 12 hours.
How are we supposed to pack this?
It is impossible. Oh, my goodness.
All right. I'm excited.
You guys are. Let's do this.
Welcome to 40, 60, 64.
That's the one. I nailed it.
OK, whoo hoo.
Oh, my God, copyrighted music.
Probably. Oh, yeah, that that is like public domain.
Well, I don't know.
It might be old enough to be public domain at this point.
Well, how does that work with like copyright isms on YouTube?
Is it like in 100 years from now, they're all going to have to expire.
And then videos can be free.
We can finally get the two towers video out.
Well, and doom, maybe.
Yeah, do do is actually do it.
I should I should mention that the two towers is actually the worst now.
I go ahead to re-render it again yesterday.
Let me check where doom is at, because I think it's over a week now.
You do it, but it hasn't hit the two week part.
Well, all right.
December 3rd, it's been nine days.
Oh, did you ever send me another two towers?
Oh, you know what?
Just remind me and I'll send it to you after the stream.
Or actually, we talked about that the last time that we talked to.
Yeah, because I got hit with another one.
It's like, oh, well, it's all right.
Too late. Who gives a shit?
It's funny, there's a lot of takes on TLJ coming out now rather than like,
sudden, I think I think that TLJ is getting ramped up big time
because Rise of Skywalker is about to come out.
And once we see that film, it's going to tell us a lot additionally about TLJ
in terms of like, what's stayed, what's not, what's what we can conclude on.
I think a lot of people like preemptively being like,
TLJ was good, though. OK, yes.
Welcome to Too Late, Who Gives a Shit?
The show in which I talk about something that's already been thoroughly reviewed,
debated, that every possible opinion has been expressed over
and that no one wants to hear anything about ever again.
Making this video that really dumb fucking idea.
Let your fan base die.
Kill it if you have to. Does it hurt?
The corner of the Internet is still losing hatred for it.
Watch a video of kittens playing and someone is shitting on the last Jedi beneath it.
You know, you know, Max Haas from the Wolfenstein games?
Yeah, I I don't remember exactly how it led up to this,
but I asked people on Twitter to Photoshop his face on the Kylo Ren
and they sent like a dozen or so to me.
And so many of them have. Does it hurt?
Does the line at the bottom?
And you just see Max Haas's fucking broken head on Kylo Ren.
It's like, yeah, it looks like it hurts a little.
That about sums up this character pretty well.
It's really hard to explain that one to the people outside of VFAM.
It's like, what's what's for the does it hurt?
You're like, well.
Bear with me.
Well, this is.
Think of a toilet.
Think Ray is on the.
You know, there's no point in explaining it.
Don't worry about it.
You're prying on into it anyway, even if you did get it.
Being rags around the high council recently and Jeff was telling us
that every once in a while there'll just be an in boring of a new meme
that none of the hosts have any idea about.
Like Jeb was one of them.
But I was just talking about Jeb on their show.
They were just confused.
Apparently, like if that means are infectious to that degree
with a whole cast of people just like I don't get it.
I think every podcast for now on needs like a representative of
if Apple or to be there to help everyone out.
We need to have archivists and librarians.
Great ones, the great holders of the tomes.
Yeah, I don't know.
TLJ being a divisive film.
I find that there's defenses and attacks of TLJ in all kinds of places.
I don't feel like there's more of one or the other.
Though I suppose the tide is turning to a degree.
Like I still get added into tweets of people who are like, you know,
finally, people who hate the last Jedi are starting to like calm down
or whatever, and I'll be like, oh.
I didn't know that was the case.
We can't have that happening.
We need to rile them back up.
Gotta rile and spit those wheels, everybody.
Stoke the flames.
I think a lot of I think a lot of people have just like accepted
that it's terrible and they just want to move on and they don't care anymore.
Unless you're on Twitter, in which case there's a disturbing amount of people
that still think it's good.
Yeah, it's me.
Caring can't end right now because of Rides of Skywalker, I think.
Like everyone's kind of interested in say, like, how long do you think it'll be
of us talking about Rides of Skywalker before everyone just goes that TLJ,
though, it's like, hey, there's a new films like, nope, talking about the other one.
The prequels had a notoriously bad reception, but this almost seems worse
or at least more confusing because this time critics mostly loved the movie.
Did he blur out its ass?
Oh, I don't know.
Why am I on zero now?
Zero for my time.
I'm on 41 seconds.
I'm at 39.
It's back. Oh, my God, Brad.
We're we're all no, I'm a fool.
So we'll throw that around again.
But why does it say?
Actual critics, not trash YouTubers like me, like the film.
Well, why would you say that?
By actual critics, does it mean people are rotten tomatoes?
I wait, is it playing for you?
No, no, I'm paused.
Because there's a forty one for me.
Let me let me play it quickly and with a five.
I mean, let me roll it back so you can see the reception.
This almost seems worse or at least more confusing.
Blur out is this.
See, see this screenshot?
Yes, actual critics, not trash YouTubers like me.
Well, I don't care what I don't know.
Why doesn't actual critic better than a YouTube?
I was going to say, does anyone put stock in the rotten tomatoes critics?
They're terrible.
Because if anything, it's almost like something you don't want to say.
Like, what are you? I'm a actual rotten tomatoes critic.
They're like, OK, all right, sure.
OK, then it's like being a checkmark on Twitter.
The other thing that kind of ruins this is that didn't Jeremy Johns become
a rotten tomorrow's critic without even being aware of it?
Like, apparently he's like on there.
And let's just say he has a video where he says this movie is pretty good.
It'll be he certifies it fresh on Rotten Tomatoes.
And he'll be like, what? Oh, OK.
So what I'm getting at is that he's like a YouTube vlogger
who is now an actual critic, assuming you're an actual critic
if you're on Rotten Tomatoes.
Pretty sure Grace Randolph is the same.
And this is the thing.
You know, if you if us three were offered like, do you guys want to be
officialized as a rotten Tomatoes critic?
I'm pretty sure all three of us would be like, no, no, never.
I don't want to have anything to fucking do with that website.
It's awful.
You'd be like, oh, it's embarrassing.
It's like you've got to provide a paragraph's worth of criticism
as the as the hook for your review.
It's like, oh, God, but
yeah, let me let me roll it back, see what he actually said about actual critics.
Watch a video of kittens playing and someone is shitting on the last Jedi beneath it.
The prequels had a notoriously bad reception, but this almost seems worse
or at least more confusing, because this time critics mostly loved the movie
with a final chapter of.
So he said critics mostly loved the movie,
and then he's got the asterisk on actual critics mostly loved the movie.
Why would you refer to them as actual critics instead of just Rotten Tomatoes ones?
I don't know. Maybe it's tongue in cheek.
Maybe it's literal, actual critics.
Legitimate critics.
Well, I don't know how I don't know how he thinks of them,
but I don't give a shit with Rotten Tomatoes critics have to say.
I guess what it says, don't hold too much stock in them.
Then I still don't understand why anyone gives a shit about Rotten Tomatoes
scores at this point.
I thought we discovered years ago that it was a terrible way to rate movies
and didn't how wasn't it not too long ago?
Who is that guy who said that, you know, the Marvel movies weren't real cinema?
Oh, Scorsese Scorsese. Yeah.
So it's like, well, I guess shit opinions can come from everywhere, can't they?
Absolutely.
In fact, that's a great thing about humans.
There's no one selection of area that we can get good things from.
It was worse or at least more confusing, because this time critics mostly loved the movie
with a final chapter of the story looming.
I wanted to entangle myself in this clusterfuck of a thing
by offering a breakdown of why I think the film is good.
But first, by watching this video, you sort of find that you are a maternal
capable of considering opinions, contradictory to your own with that.
Oh, this shit.
Why do they always do this?
Such as boycott, a retaliate?
Why harassment?
You know, that's like boycotts are the same thing.
Being boycotts are not mature, mature adults don't boycott things.
If they're terrible, I suppose.
All right.
I mean, I. Interesting.
It's not really a good thing to put in tandem with harassment campaigns
because those are two very different things.
Mature adults do not boycott.
OK. All right.
So let's go back through history and look at all the boycotts that were good.
No, immature people.
It's just a couple of people were saying that was apparently sarcastic.
The actual critics thing.
I don't I don't see how that would be sarcastic.
He put a clarification.
Why is it that people like to use the sarcasm excuse
when there's like no indication it's being sarcastic whatsoever?
I'm fine with it being sarcastic because he called himself a trash YouTuber.
Yeah, but like that seems like he's almost self-deprecating in a sense.
It's like, hey, we're all just YouTubers.
Those guys actually know what they're talking about.
Well, if that's what he means, that's retarded.
But that's that's the impression I've gotten.
Maybe I'm wrong. But I thought that's what he was trying to say.
It was like he's because if his point is critics actually like T.L.J.
I'd be on his team, actually.
I'd be like, yeah, it seems to be.
But then he clarifies like actual critics, by the way.
And I'd be like, well, what does that mean?
What is it? Why would you say like that?
They just be a way to phrase it, certainly.
Yeah, that's that's all.
Because the critics did love T.L.J.
from what I remember, right?
Like the people on Rotten Tomatoes and stuff.
Yeah. Real genuine actual.
All right. Organizing harassment campaigns and other retaliatory actions.
This video is merely one fan's opinion presented for this video is merely one
fan's opinion presented for entertainment purposes and is intended
for individuals with a sense of humor.
If you do not have I have that, then you're encouraged to watch something else.
Well, let me say this.
This stream that you're currently listening to anyone out there
is merely three fans opinions presented for entertainment purposes
and is intended for individuals with a sense of humor.
If you do not have one, then you're encouraged to watch something else.
There you go. Now. Now we're all covered.
Yep. He's covered. We're covered up.
It's all great. We did it. Yep.
Entertainment purposes.
It is intended for individuals with a sense of humor.
If you do not have one, then you're encouraged to watch something else.
Now, with that out of the way, we can talk about how Star Wars fans
are the very worst people, the dumbest.
Oh, shut up. You stay.
Fuck you. You stayed.
I mean, see, that comes across as sarcastic to me.
Yeah, that's sarcastic. Yeah, that's my good stuff.
I'm OK with that.
What does it mean by the you stayed part, though?
I guess after the after the thing. Yeah.
Oh, OK. I thought he meant like you still doing the whole
you still watch the movie thing.
All that fans kept saying after the prequels
was how much they wanted movies like the originals again.
I'm not sure they understood what that meant
because those films were made under completely different.
You're answering your own question.
Wait, you're not sure they.
So well, it depends on who you ask, I suppose.
Rex, what would you say you mean when you say I'd like more films like the OT?
More character based, a scale they can handle.
Reliance on character interactions
in character development and a more logical world
that responds realistically to the things that characters do
the way they interact with the world around them.
Wolf, same question.
I just want good writing, man.
That's so fucking hard.
Yeah, yes, it is.
It's not what I'd be like.
They go, you can't get films like the OT because they were made it like they're
like a perfect storm or something like, OK, yeah, no, I understand what I mean.
It's films that like have a really strong cause and effect that pay attention
to the rules that are set and that focus pretty hard on character
as opposed to spectacle.
That would be my preference.
But, you know, depending on who you talk to,
they can mean all kinds of different things, I guess.
The talk of the town, I believe, with the prequels about like, oh, my God,
we need OT movies, not like these.
A lot of people would appeal to like the overuse of CGI.
I remember that being one of the most common things said.
The dialogue not being up to snuff.
The plot being confusing.
I know a lot of people found it like hard to follow exactly what politically
was happening, especially in the first, not so much the second.
I think the second was a little bit more straightforward, if I remember.
But the third did pretty well.
But I don't think anybody was complaining about world building.
That seemed to be like the general sense of what was what was wrong
with the prequels, if you will.
And that I don't know.
The OT managed to offer a general general satisfaction
for all of the elements of what someone might expect to be in a Star Wars film.
But that is how it takes.
Let's let's see where he goes with this.
The dumbest. Oh, shut up. You stay.
Fuck you.
All that fans kept saying after the prequels was how much they wanted
movies like the originals again.
I'm not sure they understood what that meant,
because those films were made under completely different circumstances
when Star Wars was silly.
Didn't think it was going to be any good. Yes, I didn't lay as your sister.
I said, Oh, come on for sure.
So there isn't any film that can't be looked at as silly as far as I can tell.
Yeah, especially when it comes to the actual production of it.
Yeah, almost even more so because there'll be things in backstage
that look like really dumb and the kind of thing where they go, hey,
this will look great in post.
Oh, yeah, it's it's the whole I imagine if you got a big supercut
of Game of Thrones actors and extras goofing off behind the scenes.
I mean, we got it with Lord of the Rings, certainly.
But just this people being the people, not the characters,
understanding that they're making a movie whole lot different
than what goes on, you know, in the movie.
So it's certainly not unique to Star Wars.
Probably strange and that stuff didn't happen.
Daenerys writing a green screen mechanical bull,
because that's what they would need her to do in order to get the dragon wicked.
Like how dumb that must feel.
You're like, yeah, this will look great in the film.
And a lot of greens with all the props nowadays
and the green screens and the face caps and stuff like that.
There are going to be all kinds of those things where you just have to
just pretend that what you're doing here is something that's, you know,
something that's epic, even though it's just you walking around in a green box.
Um, and yeah, the prequels, I think, were silly.
They see the silly elements of the sequels, right?
Like, like if we're going to go with stuff like a guy in a tin can
as a droid, a girl with a weird hairdo, you know, like that sort of thing.
It's like, well, OK, yeah, I guess there's silly stuff in all stars
because it's very, very out there, very fantasy, crazy.
All things are happening.
So I don't really know how this would mean that you can't.
Well, because like he almost framed it as being like the OT is silly.
So. Here he goes.
When Star Wars was silly, didn't think it was going to be any good.
Yes, I did. Lay is your sister.
I said, oh, come on for sharing weird buttons on the side.
I said, this is the goofiest thing I've ever read.
You got to read this. I passed it all around. Nobody cared.
You know, we have large dogs flying spaceships.
You know, you describe it and people say, oh, dear.
This loads of films that applies to. Yeah.
You got to love that George Lucas himself is even like, yeah,
when you try to explain it to people, it sounds a little weird.
Yeah, but that's a lot of things, though, if you if you try to explain
a lot of things in their most crass and vulgar way, they'll sound ridiculous.
And then, oh, yeah, I mean, finalized product is just fine.
And everyone loves it.
Lord of the Rings, four small people,
elf, a dwarf who's also small, but not quite as small.
Well, you got to when you say you have to like, you can't even say that.
You have to be like a man who's tall and doesn't weigh much years.
Yeah, because the story of four midgets as they attempt to destroy
the favorite piece of jewelry of a ghostly demon lord.
If the giant fiery eyeball on top of the tower gets the ring back,
then bad things will happen to the world.
This is this is this goes for basically anything you could.
Isn't there accounts and things about like shitty plot summaries
and stuff like that? So, yeah, yeah, you guys are really fun ones
because you're like, oh, shit, that's describing this film.
Because you did you did Batman, a man dressed it as
as a giant leather bat goes around punching people.
Also, he's really rich.
And I'm not going to say like it's not the easiest thing to do
with a film like 12 Angry Men, where it's like either a jury
and they discuss the the merits of a case.
But how do you make that silly?
It's like, OK, yeah, but we're talking about sci fi fantasy.
Like it's not like Star Wars is individual in that case.
Pretty much all of it
because the whole idea is you're creating a new world
or at least one that's very different.
But, yes, space eyes, you know, it's hard to really say
explain that to somebody without space, I sorry, the medieval fire
eye on a tower. It's like, what's it all around?
Did nobody care?
You know, we have large dogs flying spaceships.
You know, you describe it and people say, oh, dear, the Wookie has no pants.
Lucas originally wanted to do Flash Gordon and couldn't get the rights to it.
So he cobbled together ideas from Westerns and Samurai films
to make his own space adventure.
What he made me think of is the Japanese sword master.
That's what it was based on.
Yeah, I mean, it's inspirations for everything.
Yeah, this one's been like, I think the first time I heard about this
was the Plinkett videos back in the day of the prequels.
He was like the Flash Gordon stuff.
Lucas had a lot of inspirations.
But when you like cobble together, all different kinds of elements
for all different kinds of your favorite media, you probably will end up
generating something that would be classed as new.
It was so unoriginal that it doubled back on itself and became original again.
I don't know about that.
So unoriginal, it doubled back and became original.
Yeah, it was not original then.
Does it is like is that kind of like a paraphrased vision of what I just said
about, like, how you have so much stuff copied over
that you eventually create something new?
That's that doesn't mean it's not original.
Well, that's that's kind of where I'm at.
I'm like, OK, we took so many different things and changed them
and rearranged them and moved them around that something completely new
that ever. Yeah, I definitely don't agree with this sentiment.
Would like him to develop it, I guess, for me.
No one knew what Star Wars was when it released.
Audiences had never seen a movie like it.
They had to be shown what it was by Lucas in the subsequent filmmakers.
But it turned out to be a story they already knew.
Lucas heavily based the plot on classic mythology,
especially Joseph Campbell's writings on the hero's journey.
Oh, yeah, but you can make this argument for a lot of stories.
Sure. Well, that's like saying that 80 percent of things aren't original.
Yeah, at this point, we start to have to split hairs or at least be very specific
in definition of what makes a new property versus an old one
or a repivist one.
I certainly wonder how many people who watch the original trilogy
actually think about, you know, the Once and Future King, the
Epic of Gilgamesh, stuff like that, because I imagine it's a very small number.
When I watch Star Wars, I personally think of the writings of Karl Marx
and what they mean to the universe.
As Thomas Botel just said, original doesn't even equal good.
So like just because it is brand new didn't come from anywhere else.
Like not to say that what he's saying is this is a flaw.
I'm not entirely sure where he's going with this, but.
You know, you could you could have something that's generated from.
I'm trying to think of a property that felt like it came from nowhere.
Like it's just brand new in every way.
But even the creator of said thing would probably be like, not quite.
Like, yeah, like there's always that's just how we think.
We explore the unknown through the known.
We that that's how we kind of contextualize new experiences.
So when you're creating new works of art or fiction, then yeah,
you're going to take all of the baggage that, you know, of your memories
and what you understand about media and literature.
And you're going to take a little bit of this, a little bit of that,
a little bit of this, and you might not even do it, you know, with, you know,
meaning to a lot of that very well might be subconscious,
or you might have a certain archetype of a character in your mind
or even maybe a particular character from another thing
that you change around and use as inspiration.
But I don't think that's not being creative
because if you just want it, pure creativity could be terrible
because you're just thinking of stuff and the most outlandish things possible.
And I'll just slap it in there.
Maybe the reason that a lot of stories are related to other stories
is because we know that certain things are appealing and they're interesting
and people generally like them and just gobbledygook on screen
is not something that people really care about.
And it's cool to sort of there's this value in repackaging ideas
to be more appealing to a new audience or different audience.
The idea that everything comes from somewhere again, like I'm not against that.
The it depends on how far you take it.
Like someone goes, my character is a guy who lost his wife and like, oh, so original.
He like, OK, yeah, he lost his husband.
No, I've been done.
He lost his keys.
Like, well, is there a story about that?
But yeah, like, you know, depending on how you define everything,
nothing is original or every lots of things are just this.
It's about where you draw the line, I would say.
Star Wars isn't science fiction.
It's an adventure that's thousands of years old and universal to every culture.
I attribute most of the success to the psychological underpinnings,
which had been around for thousands of years, and the people still react the same way.
Lucas took that mythology and told it on the biggest scale it had ever been told on.
Again, that applies to a lot of stories, like big payoffs in stories
where a character is killed or a character achieves their goal.
Like things that we all understand humanity values in terms of like,
that was a big moment.
Like I enjoyed the idea that like Star Wars is the one that's kind of appealing
to this thousand year old known
emotional sort of connection when I would just argue that most things do.
Like how actual films will have a big fight toward the end.
Let's just. Yeah, a lot of these last Jedi review start off with
talking about the the the other things that aren't the last Jedi.
Like, they're really trying to build up this idea and they can't just talk about the movie.
I'm not sure where he's going.
I'm just sort of like trying to offer a different pathway.
We'll see what he's going to conclude from this.
I'll be very interested.
Before, which is the ultimate achievement of Star Wars,
a generation was forever changed by these movies to the people that grew up with Star Wars.
It's not just a movie they like.
It is their childhood.
Star Wars is no longer silly.
It's sacred.
And I think people will be willing to admit it's still silly.
Yeah, I certainly think there are some silly aspects to it.
Absolutely.
Like if someone forgetting the episode six exists, like the entire first half of the film.
The Ewoks are pretty silly.
I know. Plus, I mean, let's look at I mean, let's look at the sports fans.
Right. I mean, how silly it is that there's such a huge, vast industry.
Untold millions of dollars every year are spent on the idea
that a bunch of guys in padding have to move a ball from one side of a rectangle to the other.
And they come up with all these complicated rules to seemingly make it as difficult as possible.
And yet it's become just iconic in a way that probably nothing else in culture is.
And I mean, yeah, sure.
You could say, oh, yeah, well, it's silly because when you break it down and duh, duh, duh, duh.
Star Wars certainly isn't an exception in that regard.
You know, things can be done like this.
I'd hate to be that guy, but like by silly, you just mean something
that's like unusual, strange or kind of could be looked at as kind of funny
in terms of how goofy it is.
Like if we're looking at that as like surely Yoda would fall into that
despite the fact that I love Yoda, I think he's awesome.
He's like a great character.
But like if someone said, do you think he's silly?
I'd be like, kind of.
What's he going on about with the silly thing?
Like, yeah, we get it.
So what's it seems to be the argument here.
He's setting up that people take the OT is like sacred and not silly.
And maybe well, let's see where he moves into.
Was forever changed by these movies to the people that grew up with Star Wars.
It's not just a movie they like.
It is their childhood.
Star Wars is no longer silly.
It's sacred.
And this is where the fun begins.
Why are they made surely exclusive?
I don't know.
Yeah, because I would say, yeah, a lot of people do think that the OT is sacred.
And depending on how you define all of that, it's perfectly reasonable.
But I mean, it certainly should be cherished for what it has done culturally.
But I mean, nothing's like off limits for criticism.
Yeah, it depends on how or how you mean it.
Star Wars is no longer silly.
It's sacred.
And this is where the fun begins, because now everyone in the theater
thinks they know what Star Wars is better than the filmmakers.
And we played this part like four times.
We'll do it again, because I just want to make sure I catch what he says.
Not just a movie. Sorry.
It is their childhood.
Star Wars is no longer silly.
It's sacred.
And this is where the fun begins, because now everyone in the theater thinks
they know what Star Wars is better than the filmmaker and who could tell them
they're wrong. These directors.
OK, but who can tell someone that they're wrong?
Definitively, if you think that there is someone who can.
Why would Rian Johnson know Star Wars any better than, you know, Joe Bloggs?
John Smith. Yeah, he just Rian Johnson clearly knows fuck all about Star Wars,
but he's the one that Disney hired to just make the movie.
And so does he now know more about Star Wars than the people?
It's like he's saying that just because they made a movie in the universe,
despite not creating that universe, that they know more about it
than the fans of that universe who've been watching it for decades.
Yeah, we've talked about this before.
It's if I created a fake universe across like 12 books or something,
I would be almost certain if I had like a strong base of a million readers,
let's say, I'd be like, yes, somebody out there knows my universe better than me.
For sure. That's just kind of how passion goes.
Just because he's a director of Star Wars doesn't mean he like,
isn't this just an appeal to authority?
That's a mention, I'm pretty sure I don't remember the exact quote,
but I remember George R. Martin saying that he had like a couple of mega fans
help him write a world of ice and fire, that big like kind of encyclopedia
of the world and shit, and they knew more about it than he did seemingly
because he would forget that he killed off a character already.
And they'd be like, no, wait, George, you can't do that.
And like the Buffy remaster, I think we talked about it as like,
just give it to a bunch of people who actually love Buffy
instead of people who are in it because that's their job.
I mean, I could make a Zelda game.
Doesn't mean I know anything about Zelda. Yeah.
And, you know, it's like, well, you're saying that Ryan isn't a fan of Star Wars?
I'd be like, I don't know.
It's just he comes across as though he doesn't seem to really care
if he fucks things up. That's all. Yeah.
Um, so like he respects it at all.
Because he's a little dismissive with how he puts this up, right?
It's like the fucking people in the audience think they know
better than JJ or Ryan.
And I'm like, oh, well, why wouldn't they?
Like, I don't know.
It just adds to the reason.
Let's get this whole thought of his kind of together.
It's just a movie they like.
It is their childhood.
Star Wars is no longer silly.
It's sacred.
And this is where the fun begins,
because now everyone in the theater thinks they know what Star Wars is
better than the filmmaker and who could tell them they're wrong.
These directors are just fans like anyone else.
Everyone was impacted by the movies differently,
and so everyone has their line in the sand.
Their vision for what the characters should be
and any new story is inevitably going to alienate
one part of the fan base or the other.
Yeah, right.
But it sort of implies that like they're all equally valid or something.
There are things we've seen in the films that can't be denied.
Like there's certain things you just cannot do without breaching.
Especially since the fan image of the originals has gotten so disordered
that The Last Jedi ended up being heavily criticized
for doing the very things those movies did.
In fact, I would take it a step further
and say that if The Empire Strikes Back had somehow only been released today
to this fan base, they would probably tear apart.
No, not this shit argument again.
So who's the...
Who's the first...
I think it was Ryan Johnson, the first I heard this argument from,
that if Empire was released today, everyone in the fan base would like Rippet a Shreds.
Of course, Ryan Johnson would say that.
So I guess first thing would be, yes, there would be people who don't like it naturally
because there is no film that everyone likes.
Secondly, like would it be as divisive as The Last Jedi?
It's like you'd have to tell me how, why you have to have arguments here.
You can't just say that that would be the case.
Yeah, I was like, maybe, maybe not.
How do we find out?
TFA wasn't divisive for the most part when it came out.
It was like pretty well praised from what I remember.
Yeah, The Force Awakens, everyone really seemed to like it.
I liked it.
The Return of the Jedi are pretty well liked.
The, obviously the prequels were divisive, but then that would only support our point
that how is it that TFA didn't get this treatment until much later?
But all right, let's hear some more.
Very things those movies did.
In fact, I would take it a step further and say that if The Empire Strikes Back had somehow
only been released today to this fan base, they would probably tear it apart.
Okay, okay, we'll take a bit by bit.
So visual aberrations were never established in A New Hope.
That was his, that was the first criticism.
And again, this is what I mean by like creating arguments.
I'm on board with this.
Like you could do this today.
It wouldn't be any different now than it would have been when the film came out.
So we knew that Obi-Wan could talk to Luke after being killed slash whatever Vader does
to him when he makes him disappear.
What exactly happens in terms of like a bad result that Obi-Wan can appear to Luke?
What like, what does that do?
Doesn't affect anything.
Yeah.
And if anything, I would say the talking to him is much more significant, but that was
already in the first film.
So in terms of an extension, I don't see any problem with it as a development.
And that's, that's, by the way, something I feel about new force powers in general.
I'm okay with new force powers.
I just don't want them to fuck everything up that came before.
And one of the ways to do it is to have super advanced only, you know, like I remember that
being the defense of the Skype calls.
Yeah.
That it was like only Snoke can do it and Snoke is like the most powerful thing ever.
And you're like, okay.
All right.
It's better.
Um, the second one was how is certainly help.
Yeah.
The second one is how is Vader choking the guy through the TV?
Uh, so correct me if I'm wrong, but are they, are they not on the same ship or are they
on ships that are nearby?
I thought they were on the same ship.
I don't know.
I'd have to rewatch it again.
It's been a couple of years, but yeah, I don't know.
The one that, uh, made everyone questionable in TLJ was that Snoke had to use hyperspace
to catch up to Hux and he managed to force choke him through a T through a hologram across
the length of a hyperspace.
Right.
However long that would have been.
That seems a little more ridiculous than Vader doing it across either a singular ship or just
to a ship that's nearby.
So yeah, like I can get why, where this is coming from and he is looking at the guy on
the screen.
So yeah.
And by the way, this, this guy isn't saying these are good arguments.
He's just presenting them as what people could have said about empire and what our counter
would be is that.
Yeah.
And there's validity to each argument.
These aren't doing so well so far.
Let's see what else he's got.
They would probably tear it apart.
Visual apparitions were never established in the prior.
Okay.
Okay.
Hello.
Pressurized space.
They're in a worm.
Yeah.
They're not on like a bear asteroid.
They're inside a living creature.
So it would make, you could definitely make the argument that there's atmosphere inside
the creature.
I suppose this is not, I remember when I was a kid watching this for the first time, even
though I didn't know much about space I had, I was like, why aren't they wearing helmets
and space?
But then it turned out to be a worm and I was like, oh, okay, well, it's not a problem
then.
I imagine that's what all the fog is trying to tell us.
This is almost like a landscape thanks to the whim.
So, all right.
All right.
I'm stupid.
Is there a cozy atmosphere in a space ride?
So stupid.
You can only survive in space for 10 seconds.
I googled it.
What is a creature like this even eating?
How does this massive creature survive?
Are many spaceships flying out to the remote asteroid field?
So this doesn't seem relevant at all to the last Jedi.
Well, I'm sure we'll get there.
It's fine.
But sure we'll get there.
But if anything is like this, how many times does this happen?
Instead of defending the last Jedi, let's attack something else.
If the best that you can do, yeah, the best that you can do is to say, oh yeah, well,
the other stuff was bad too.
And I'm like, okay, but we're talking about the last Jedi.
That's a lot of people saying that Vader and Ozil were on the same ship, which again,
like I said, I think that's far more reasonable than being at the stretch of a hyperspace
jump.
Like I think anybody would agree with that, especially when it's Vader, the greatest
force user in the canon before the sequel trilogy.
But yeah, as this next one, like what is the worm eating?
How does it stay alive?
It's like, I guess we have no idea.
It could literally be rocks from the thing.
It's an alien creature who knows if it actually needs sustenance.
I have no fucking clue.
Until you present a contradiction, what are we supposed to assume, that the worm needs
a backstory?
It's not Snoke, it didn't like make the first order rise, that sort of thing, it's fine.
And who says that the worm only eats spaceships?
Well, this is what I mean, like we have no idea how the worm works or why it's there.
How do we know it doesn't travel through space and it chose to, you know, sit in there for
a while?
How do we know it's not the Alaskan bull worm thrown from Bikini Bottom into space and
ended up there?
We don't know.
It's very bad.
No clue.
Also, I can't help but notice that he's presenting these people as whiny.
Yeah, of course.
Just, just, just, you know, just as alone as whiny.
So stupid.
You can only survive in space for 10 seconds.
I Google it.
What is a creature like this even eating?
How does this massive creature survive in the remote asteroid field?
I am your father.
Ruan ruined my childhood.
They ruined him.
They ruined Luke's character.
You have to prove it's a retcon.
Yeah, how does this ruin Luke's character?
I've never seen anyone say these things.
Ruined Luke's character?
Yeah, I've never known that one.
Yeah, because it's like, oh yeah, well back then they would have said these.
It's like, well, apparently they didn't.
And we certainly won't say them now.
So why even bother?
Who are these people?
I've never met them.
I would love to.
But if there was a guy who made the video, because YouTube nine, YouTube's eighties or
whatever the hell was up then, we, we may cover that video on eFav, you know, be like,
let's see the problems with the OT.
We didn't remarkable Republican have issues with the OT.
That's what his video was.
Yeah.
He had issues.
Yeah.
This is the thing.
Too many gay butlers.
Well, and Leia is only best friend hot, you know, a fair point, a fair point indeed.
So only best friend, only best friend, too much like a lesbian, but this is the thing.
Like if, just because those arguments are made doesn't then mean, aha, we've got people
making it for the OT and TLJ.
It's just the same.
Really?
Like, no, that's not how it works.
Just because there's always going to be somebody, you know, like check out these arguments.
You look hard enough and you'll find people who hate anything for the weirdest reasons
you could imagine.
I am your father.
My childhood.
They ruined him.
They ruined Luke's character and Vader's character.
We ruined Vader's character, too, Vader's character, because he has a son.
People watch this video and change their minds in the last Jedi after he deliberately.
We haven't gotten the OT in our own arguments.
We're only four minutes, which is at this point, what is that, like 10 percent, less
than 10 percent?
I'm sure the arguments are coming, OK?
Stay faithful.
Still with me?
If you're not convinced, here's some examples, beginning with.
The Force began as a vague metaphor for religion and kept changing form right up until the
cameras began rolling.
If you list every ability seen in A New Hope, they don't exactly make the most sense
together.
Why?
Why?
How don't they make sense together?
Because it may have changed in production up to the point where they start filming.
It doesn't matter what it might have been, it matters what it is.
Yeah.
Because every single fiction of every single kind that was ever made would have had plans
before being made, right?
Like the things change.
I'm OK with that.
But as it stands, what doesn't make sense, I suppose, would be the question.
The Empire Strikes Back expanded those abilities, with Luke outright using telekinesis, gaining
superhuman agility, and seeing through time.
Well, telekinesis was already used.
Superhuman agility?
No.
Well, he jumped and forward rolled, I don't know that that's normal.
He did, I'll do that right here.
Is it a flip?
Is it possible?
Is it possible?
Is it possible to do a front flip?
I wonder.
Oh, I've only heard stories.
Well, what I'll say is that with the Force, you can definitely like, fuck it, I'll sight
TLJ.
You could pull, theoretically, if you were in space, you could pull yourself into a ship.
And so if I extend that, could you theoretically force push down as you jump and jump really
high?
And I think that is an established power, right?
Would that count as increased agility, or would that just be using the Force?
Just be using the Force.
Yeah.
And maybe, I'm trying to think of the mainline films, is there any evidence that Force or
Jedi have increased agility?
Or they just they just train?
That depends on if you use the infinite stamina in Battlefront II.
I certainly imagine that if you are a Jedi and you're supposed to be a monk like protector
of goodness and all that, you know, all that stuff, having a lot of agility would be good.
Oh, sure.
You know, I don't know that it's like super agility.
He also said telekinesis as if it wasn't in A New Hope, though, because he said that they
were developed.
He's like, he has telekinesis like, oh, yeah, but they already had that.
Like, watching Vader choke someone from a distance isn't a specific power.
Like you could only do Force.
I know I'm saying this when in like Wikipedia or games, Force choke will be like a specific
ability.
But you know that what that is, is like you're clapping down a distance.
Yeah.
Okay.
Right.
Using telekinesis, gaining superhuman agility and seeing through time.
By the end of Return of the Jedi, the Emperor is shooting lightning out of his hands.
Doesn't matter.
Well, again, yeah, that doesn't contradict anything.
And he's he's super powerful.
Like I don't know that like maybe Vader could do it.
But the idea that if he fires electric from his wired up suit, it could be a bad day for
him.
Especially considering that's how he dies.
But you know what I mean, like, when someone's writing a book, I mean, a lot of that is literally
making it up as you go.
That's how you do stories.
You make it up as you go.
Then you go back and fix things and edit and all that.
But making it up as you go, that's not a problem if you're writing a story, especially if you're
trying to be new and original.
Or is that bad now?
I don't know.
I'm getting getting a little bit of a mixed message here.
In chat, we got force augmentation, example being when Kenobi ripped Grievous's chest
open.
Wasn't that just normal?
Yeah.
Isn't that something normal people do?
I mean, well, it was like metal had even weakened prior to that or how well connected was this
metal?
I was going to say, I didn't know that it was like super strong, the metal.
I'd have to rewind.
I haven't seen the prequels since.
I remember being like, there's like a split between them.
If he's pulling while you that's just an application of force pull.
I suppose you could argue that, yeah, because it's like you're physically assisting your
force pull.
And we've got a Luke jumped out of the carbonite freeze super fast again, wouldn't that just
come under force before like the Obi-Wan does that with I want to say an attack of the clones.
Space Windu jumping off the platform after getting hit with a flamethrower from Django,
like nobody should survive that level of a fall.
But I assume with the force, like say before you land, you force push down, you can do
like a little bump up.
I suppose that's probably something you could do in the same way that when you jump, you
can push down.
I thought that's what Luke did.
I assumed.
These seem just like applications to me.
I didn't realize that these are actually considered to be like super force legs or something.
Yeah.
None of this seems and these just seem like applications of pulling, pushing and pulling,
which are very broadly defined.
But that's fine.
Being superhuman agility and seeing through time.
By the end of Return of the Jedi, the Emperor is shooting lightning out of his hands.
It's fair to say that this was being made up as they went along.
Only the Emperor.
You can make it up as you go along, as long as you don't break anything you've already
set up.
Yeah, that's fine.
I know he's trying to why he's doing it, doing this.
It's just to defend the Luke apparition at the end and Leia's flying through space thing.
But he fundamentally doesn't understand what the actual issues with those things are.
That would be what the second issue drops, yeah.
And that doesn't diminish the force in any way.
It was an incredibly flexible plot device, something to move the story and characters
along that could take whatever form the writers needed.
So it's a little bit disingenuous to cite these things happening in Empire Strikes
Back when he's literally on Dagobah to learn how to do these things.
Yeah, these things are earned.
They're not just things that you have as in your repertoire of a force user and they're
not random.
Or at least they may have been, you could argue that they're thrown in randomly to
match things in the plot, but they also have to satisfy a couple of other boxes before
they can be put in.
And that's kind of where we're at with the sequel trilogy whenever they introduce.
For example, we don't know if this is true yet, but Force Heal, you know what you'll
do if you introduce Force Heal, didn't you just say that that's a thing they could do
with the mainline movies?
We're going to have some questions for other portions of the films.
The first one I have on top of my head is just Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon, like Qui-Gon's dying
and he's like, if only you'd learned Force Heal.
Yeah, it just seems to me that this would be almost at the top of the list for something
that everybody would learn all the time.
Hell yeah.
Like, how could you abuse Force Heal?
Could Anakin have firstly, like, they just like put his like severed arm back to the
stump and like force healed it back?
You could have just healed the Padme when she had her kid.
Yeah, why didn't they do that?
Can you regenerate limbs with Force Heal?
Yeah, I just, you have to just attach them together as long as you have a heart.
You can stop cloning people.
I want to see this.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Like this is the thing.
And if someone's like, what about introducing Force Heal?
We'd be like, ah, you do that.
You have to make it incredibly high level or just don't.
Could Force Heal have like turned Palpatine's skin back to normal?
No, that was his true skin.
He was wearing a blanket that looks, that looked creamy sheathed.
He found those ads online that say, 900 years old but looks 40.
I'm here to say that this was being made up as they went along, and that doesn't diminish
the Force in any way.
It was an incredibly flexible plot device, something to move the story and characters
along that could take whatever form the writers needed.
This is a good illustration of how the Force was used.
It doesn't matter that Luke can jump 20 feet in the air.
That ability is never important to the story.
What?
It's literally very important.
It saves him from being carbonite frozen.
He didn't think that he could have just jumped out the entire movie.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe it would have just been replaced with him jumping out less, I guess, spectacularly.
Like he lifted, as he jumped, he lifted himself up and landed on the platform right across
from Vader or...
But at that point, it's just details of accomplishing the same thing, as long as he gets out of
the carbonite chamber, essentially, is what's important.
And again, couldn't you just do this jump by pushing, force pushing down while jumping?
Yeah.
You could even do like the whole downforce push from like the Force Unleashed.
That's a really big Force push.
Also someone referenced the super fast run from Phantom Menace.
I do think that's retarded, by the way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I think they would be abusing the fuck out of that.
I don't know the...
I need like George Lucas's commentary on that, because I've heard from different people that
that's not supposed to be Force Fast Run or anything.
That's just a bad edit.
But George, please tell us.
George, what was it?
Was it a bad edit?
Stupid idea.
Or did you just unlock Force Sprint?
And if it was a bad edit, then why didn't you change it like you changed the hundred
thousand other things when you remade the movies for Blu-ray?
But knowing how literally fans take things, I assume there's a 20-page Wikipedia article
about Jedi leg ligaments.
The ability only has meaning in the context of Luke's character arc.
I mean, fans will do everything they can to repair, right?
The one that I've cited in part three of the TFA series, once that eventually comes out,
is that JJ Abrams...
I think I've said this on eFap before, but I just find it fascinating.
JJ admitted that it was dumb that you could see the lasers from where the planet that
Han Solo and Finn are in TFA is stupid that you could see the laser in the explosion of
the planets, because that means they'd be really close.
And he said that that was like, who the fuck is, like, science is gay.
That sort of thing.
Like, it's spectacle.
It's cool.
But then on the Wikipedia, you'll find people being like, it's made of special light that
can travel across, like, solar systems, and you're like, what?
What?
But fans are like, no, it makes sense.
Shut up.
It totally does.
This is why.
You know, I'm not going to disparage them for that.
They really want their content to all light up, like, well, yeah, they want this idea
of a world that's, you know, sensical to exist despite the nonsense that happens in the
films.
I mean, they're fans generally.
It's weird.
Sure, everyone has their own individual idea of what the Star Wars universe is, but it
just so happens that a very, very large segment of all of them can come together.
And come up with these ideas and these thoughts that, you know, rectify all these
potential issues.
I mean, besides we have we don't even have a full understanding of our own world.
People based on their knowledge and their experiences think that the real world is all
kinds of different ways.
And yet we're all able to exist in it.
So it's not like it's an unreasonable concept.
And just for clarification, yeah, there's going to be some weird fans who put in some
weird, like, articles in there probably as well, right?
Like, I'm not saying that because a couple of people in chat were like, you get crazy
fans doing it, too.
It's like, no, no, of course.
Like, I'm just saying that someone who's trying to be like, Jedi have increased agility.
This explains a lot of the things that happen in the movie that seem weird.
They'd be like, oh, well, they're just trying to fix it up.
Important to the story, but knowing how literally fans take things, I assume there's a
20 page Wikipedia article about Jedi leg ligaments.
The ability only has meaning in the context of Luke's character arc.
He wanted to go off on an adventure and join his friends and fighting the empire.
He realized that goal and became the leader of the rebellion and believed that becoming
a Jedi would make him an even more powerful warrior.
I'm looking for a great warrior.
Forest not make one great.
He barely knew anything about the force and fundamentally misunderstood what being a
Jedi was about.
Adventure.
Hey, hey, Jedi craves, not these things.
No weapons.
You will not need them.
I'm just I'm like, I'm OK with all of this so far.
Yeah, sounds good.
He struggled through a series of failures and was just beginning to make progress when he
sensed his friends were in trouble.
He arrogantly believed that he was powerful enough to handle the trap set for him and left
against the orders warnings.
I don't know if I'd call it arrogance.
He expressly says that he just he wants to save his friends.
Even ask Yoda if they'll die without him.
And Yoda says it's unclear.
So I mean, if if anything, that's kind of selfless.
Yeah, I like the idea that he's immune to the trap that Vader will set.
I don't know that you that Luke feels that way.
He's just desperate to help people.
I'm trying to think of like specific dialogue.
He just says like they're my friends.
I've got to help them.
That's one of the lines.
Like he sees it as that trumps anything like even his guaranteed loss, which is like
even his guaranteed loss, which again, quite the hero.
And in the ensuing fight, we see that Luke is powerful, performing superhuman feats of
strength.
Even Vader is impressed with his abilities.
Most impressive.
But as the fight goes on, Luke realizes that he's completely outmatched.
The force is much bigger than he knew and his abilities amounted to nothing.
This moment was just a stepping stone on the way to this moment.
It doesn't mean it's not important.
It doesn't make sense.
Yeah, it was important.
If it wasn't important, then he would have stayed and got frozen in carbonite and then
everything changes.
Yeah, everything.
And they could have demonstrated Luke's power any number of ways.
Jumping seems like it was just an arbitrary match for the layout of the freezing
arbitrary.
The whole plan was to lure him in there so that he could be frozen and taken to the
emperor.
I think he's trying to say that this is one of what could have been many different
powers provided to him by the plot in order to escape this moment.
Force related, I guess.
But I still don't know that I would refer to that as arbitrary.
Like this power works with what we understand and it does function as a way to escape
this particular moment.
Like I'm trying to I guess he could have like forced telekinesis, moved something into
the switch that Vader had pulled down to pull it back up.
And then as Vader tries to put it back down again, he manages to get back out.
That's another way to have done it, I suppose.
But this was still not something I would refer to as arbitrary.
That's all.
If the room had been different, maybe Luke could have used super speed instead.
Super speed is dumb.
Yeah.
Sorry, it's stupid.
And the super speed could have been used.
Someone in the chat even mentioned like they could be used so that Obi-Wan could have
caught up with Darth Maul way faster.
Yeah.
The literal form.
Dude, there's so many things.
Kiari Mundi when he's killed on the bridge.
If only he just super speeded away.
If only AOS Akira super speeded away.
If only any of the four Jedi masters that went to go arrest Palpatine super speeded away.
It's like, let's not seriously from the writer's room.
If someone said it, I'd be like, just stop, just stop.
Wait until it super speed.
The force took didn't matter.
It was always working in the service of the story and the characters.
But after years of worshiping these movies fans demand that it always works in service of the story and the characters.
Yeah, but it still has to make sense.
Like I agree with him, but you can't just have it be anything.
Like again, so let's say they picking from a roster of abilities for Luke to be able to escape that situation with Vader.
And one of the writers says, how about force invisibility bubble?
And everyone's looking around like invisibility towards that means like he goes invisible and then he climbs out of the thing.
Vader can't find him.
And then the second he attacks Vader, the bubble like goes away and be like, so old Jedi can become invisible is what you're saying.
Then he's like, yeah.
And that's like, you could think about it for a while and be like, hmm, I don't know if that's going to cause problems for us in the future in terms of like good guys or bad guys being able to sneak up on each other.
But that's like, put that in the maybe pile.
I have to think about it.
And then some other guy goes, what about forcing invincibility?
Like force, what does that mean?
They just become invincible and they like, they like shiny for the time that they do it and they can only do it for a limited amount of time.
And I think everyone here would be like, no, just no, can't do that.
Why not?
It's like, that's going to cause shit tons of problems.
Like how are we going to be able to do that?
But then you can have this guy being like, well, it doesn't really matter as long as it serves the story of the characters and be like, no, of course it matters.
If you are using a tool to allow your characters to perform certain actions, not just have them be arbitrary because then their choices will dramatically change.
Like Luke could be like, you know, it can be done in the world.
Like, you know, it was like, you can't go and help your friends.
You'll be killed.
And then he goes, I have force invincibility.
I'll be fine.
Like, I guess he's right.
This is the, this is the force version of the hyper speed jump.
Yeah.
Because world rules come in all shapes and sizes.
We need them to make sense.
Otherwise the stakes or what like sacrifice characters make start to become really embarrassing.
Like I said, you can retroactively destroy things like, like Obi-Wan's fight with Darth
Maul, like the ball, the ball, you force powers, you add the ball.
We're like, wait, why did they use the fire?
It's like, it's fine.
But it looks like we're finally getting to the TLJ.
After years of worshiping these movies, fans demand that it work the other way around.
The force is super important and your story and characters had better work in the service
of it, and that means locking everything to only what was seen in the original.
I wouldn't call it working in the serve, the service of the force.
Just work within its rules.
That's all.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
This screen grab of Kylo is so embarrassing.
This is like, this is the villain.
This is the pathetic villain.
And that means locking everything to only what was seen in the originals with no more
room for imagination or growth.
So he's just expressed earlier that a force telekinesis was like a development, but that's
not being that's being locked down by A New Hope still.
So like what we talk about is how you can try and expand or extend what we already know
and use it in different ways.
That's where the creative part comes in.
It's tough.
I don't disagree with that to try and create some kind of new scenarios or new abilities
or new ways to explore a Jedi's power without creating brand new abilities that are
essentially like just exchanging them for different superheroes from different comic
books and stuff.
Like why can't they do four stretchy hand and they can stretch their arms around corners
and stuff and you just be like, what the fuck?
I don't know.
Why is that?
And you'll get some people who are honestly like, well, it's creating something new.
It's being risky.
It's being bold.
It's creating something new with the force.
You'd be like, yeah, but that's stupid.
The force isn't omnipotence.
It's just like this is ignoring someone pointed out in the chat that not many people had that
big of an issue with Kylo freezing a laser bolt.
No.
In mid-air.
Yeah, which was which was new.
It was really flashy, but it was it's an extension, right?
You could probably hold energy in place with the force if it's telekinesis.
It just requires a lot of focus.
And what I got from that moment was, holy shit, this guy knows his stuff if he's able to do that.
And then it's contradicted later when it turns out he's a pussy.
Embarrassing.
And besides, this is I mean, Vader stops laser bolts and Empire Strikes Back is not as
flashily done.
Is this what I mean?
Like this, you would just watch the films and write down everything you know about the
force and be like, what can we do with this?
How can we expand it?
How can we play with it instead of deciding, you know what, we just do anything.
Fuck it.
Like, no, maybe no, let's not just throw it out in the service of it.
And that means locking everything to only what was seen in the originals with no more
room for imagination or growth.
That's not how the force works.
The 900 year old puppet can come back as a blue ghost, but shooting a lightning bolt is
blasphemy.
Yeah, because it brings a lot of different things.
Those are two in how stupid are you that you think that these of course do not see the
difference is highlighted to make you seem unreasonable because if you have zero context
of Star Wars, that would seem unreasonable.
It's like, why is a blue ghost puppet?
OK, the flash of lightning isn't like, well, because there's a whole set of fucking rules
for this universe.
You can't establish a magic system in anything and then break the rules because then you
got to ask, well, why didn't force Yoda or force Ghost Yoda fire a lightning bolt down
at the satellite for the shield generator in episode six and help the rebels out?
Did he just like sitting with his popcorn?
Yeah, did we just write that and he said, yeah, I don't know.
And then we were like, is it because he could only do it on this planet?
He was like, yeah, there you go.
That could be why.
Yeah, he didn't have an answer for that.
The idea that you have to ask the same question again.
Oh, my God, this whole scene in The Last Jedi is just it's so awful.
You've got the so the concept that we've established that a force user can reappear to
somebody in some ethereal form to offer advice and wisdom and teaching from beyond the grave.
It's like, OK, that's not that's not really that crazy.
You know, that's that's not an unreasonable thing, especially when you set limits on it.
And we don't even know if when somebody at least before The Last Jedi, it was never even
established if that person was really there in any corporal sense or if any other people
could interact with it or see it or if it was just a figment of the in the mind of whoever
was being appeared to.
We didn't know that it wasn't for certain, but this scene not only tells us that these
guys can, you know, they can come back and talk to people and offer advice, but they can
physically manipulate the world around them to the point that they can call in lightning
strikes to destroy things.
And now they could hit people.
They could physically strike people and cause them pain, which is why I joke sometimes.
So now in Star Wars, what's the advantage of being alive?
But no, it's all silly, you know, it's also every it's all equally silly force pull.
It is force pull is just as silly and stupid as being able to destroy entire fleets with
force lightning.
It's all just they're all in equal playing fields.
I can't believe this was supposed to be a good video.
This convinced people.
What? All right, I genuinely know that's what I've been thus far as told.
OK, like I'm not to say that's true.
That's what I was told.
I imagine that the people that's convinced were already probably T.L.J.
fans to some extent.
You remember Rags like the stream we did.
How many people asked about this video?
This was this is the one that like I think I want to say like at least six super chats
were like, you need to cover this video.
So far, it ain't looking too good.
Well, yeah, this is only now a fifth of the video ish.
So let's see, I guess 100 year old puppet can come back as a blue
ghost, but shooting a lightning bolt is blasphemy.
When Obi-Wan said, if you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can
possibly imagine.
I'd like to think he meant he could do a little more than just hang around and shoot
the shit.
The mother he's dead and he's still able to observe the universe.
He literally says he literally says in episode five, he like holds up his hands and
says, I can't interfere if you fight Vader.
Oh, my God, you're stupid.
I don't know the he's understanding.
He's like, when you say you can become more powerful than you can possibly imagine, I
didn't think that you meant you die and be able to stay around.
It's like, that sounds pretty impressive to me.
And also, this is power in purely a utility sense.
Sure.
Of I can cast lightning now.
It's like, what happens if you kill Vader?
Well, now you're fucked.
I was going to say, like, imagine that you change the lines.
If you strike me down, I shall be able to cast lightning bolts at you from death.
They don't be like, what?
Holy shit.
It's like, so if you kill me, can I do that to you?
I guess I'll put you in a fucking cryo tube to prevent you from ever dying.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
Now I'll never leave space ever again.
I don't understand that line of logic.
Can you imagine that conversation Vader would have to have with Palpatine?
Palpatine's like, why won't you go back to the forest moon of Endor?
And Vader's like, I'm afraid that my old mentor is going to hit me with lightning.
And Palpatine's like, what the fuck are you talking about?
Yeah, that's right.
This is an established thing now.
Fuck.
The second they kill everyone, Vader's just sweating, like blue beads of water
coming around his helmet.
Because if if you kept the force ghost thing as it was, it didn't cause any issues.
We don't know to whom they can appear to.
It seems as if they've only before this, they only could appear to people
with a special connection or knowledge of it or some level of understanding
of the force of these people in particular.
They couldn't just go out and do whatever they wanted.
You know, they were working within confines.
So this it just changes everything and it would retroactively fuck shit up.
Powerful when you would possibly imagine.
I'd like to think he meant he could do a little more than just hang around and shoot the shit.
It was clear that he was holding back his full potential.
If you choose to face, why?
What do you mean?
Why would that be the case?
Yeah, so he voluntarily decided that during the entire two and a half episodes
where he was dead, there was never a point where he could use physical objects
or lightning or some incredible power to save the lives of a hero or someone
that he cared about and he just he could have, but he just chose not to know that.
This is this so many like so two, two more arguments for you.
When Emperor is fucking zapping Luke and Vader slowly getting up from having been
defeated, you think Obi-Wan was just sitting there being like, damn, we lost.
It's like, you got to help you asshole.
And then secondly, if you really do become so powerful that you can just go ghost form
and just just free cam around everywhere, no longer age and zap lightning at people
at will, wouldn't the Emperor want to die?
Exactly.
That's what I'm saying in this universe.
Why be alive?
What's the point?
It's like better than dead.
If they're able to do that, then why didn't Obi-Wan and Yoda and how we can throw Anakin
in on there, too, they go up to Snoke and they hit him with lightning and they're
like, lol.
Well, that was one of the potential leaks, right?
It was I don't know if they can this now, but at one point it was supposed to be Ray
was nearly defeated, but then the ghosts of Luke and Leia was supposed to help it
defeat Palpatine.
Imagine how that would be.
Why?
Why?
Why?
Doesn't make sense.
And it's not like being able to come back to appear to people to offer them guidance
and wisdom like that is a very powerful thing in and of itself.
Don't underestimate its ability to give people wisdom and knowledge and to influence
them.
But I mean, that in and of itself is already really powerful, especially if you don't
have a body anymore, you're probably just going to be around for whatever amount of
time.
But that's I mean, don't don't discount that as something that isn't
already incredibly powerful.
I love that each is casually just like, yeah, Obi-Wan could have helped him.
He just didn't.
It's like, oh, okay.
All those times.
Okay.
And he was holding back his full potential.
If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone.
I cannot interfere.
So why is a lightning bolt out of the question?
For all the reasons we just said.
Because are you fucking insane?
Why is an actual being able to actually summon a physical lightning bolt to kill and
destroy things out of the question?
Like I said, wow, all of the it was it was raining at the end of episode three.
And there was a lot of dead Jedi.
I imagine there'd be quite a few that would be like, what if we summon one of the
lightning bolts that's already in the air and just hit Palpatine while he's walking
into the building?
Well, one thing they would have as a counter to that, theoretically, is that a
Force Ghost weren't a thing until after the end of Revenge of the Sith.
If you remember, Yoda says to Obi-Wan that like he's found a way to commute and
beyond death or whatever, like that was when apparently Force Ghosts were first
introduced according to the canon of the films.
And also when we talk about Obi, it's odd that he would say what he did and then
play Obi-Wan explicitly saying I cannot interfere.
He's talking about the deleted scene where he says, I cannot interfere, which
means, by the way, that I don't want to.
I can't.
I don't want to.
No, it means I cannot.
No, no, no, no.
He means morally like he can't do it on a moral level.
But then he wouldn't say I won't do it.
No, rags.
What the fuck is wrong with you?
Stop using your brain rags.
It's like if someone says, all right, do a thing and you say I can't.
It implies that you actually cannot do it.
It's not possible.
If you said I won't, you're like, yeah, I could.
But I will see that was cut.
Luke responds can't or won't Obi-Wan.
Then he goes, won't.
I won't.
I could.
I could save your life and all that stuff.
But I just want I don't like that.
You're walking off without my permission, bastard.
Yeah, I wonder if you just stay here with Yoda.
He needs company.
He's an old man.
You know how they get.
Yeah, it makes sense.
Just because we haven't seen it before.
People hated Leia pulling herself through zero gravity, which isn't even a new
ability, just an old one in a new car.
No, OK.
No, it's not like we have to explain.
It's not that you can pull yourself through zero G with the force,
because theoretically speaking, that that would be an extension of if you cannot.
It's this it works the same in real life.
If you try and push a wall that's like huge, you only end up pushing yourself
backwards, right, like if you if you're not planted to the ground,
in the same way that if you telekinesis force push an object that's too big
to actually move, you should theoretically push yourself backward.
I'm OK with that.
The problem with Leia is that she manages to force pull herself in from zero G.
At least that's how I feel.
You guys are bored with that or no? Yep.
Mr.
Rags, huh?
Uh, the the layer force into the.
Space ship. Yeah.
Like, is it a problem that she can force pull herself from zero G?
Is that a problem?
No, if anything, I'd probably make it easier.
OK, so what is the problem with the layer scene?
The problem with the layer scene isn't that she can do it.
It's that she all of a sudden does it with no training or guidance.
She's been floating out there, seemingly dead for like at least a minute or so.
Yeah. Now, if if she write is the explosion happened, she did something or she.
Use some power to protect herself or she'll frost on his skin.
Yeah, but when you have frost on your skin in space, like, man,
that's so far, that's so far, it's gone.
Like, that's what I mean.
But I'm I'm not against the idea of being able to,
like having a having kind of a tier of specialized force abilities
that take training and concentration and sagacity and time to learn.
But just being able to pull the shit out of your ass whenever you need it
really, really creates a rocky foundation for the force.
Yeah, this says something that the force unleashed
had a character fly out into space and he literally died
and they had to reconstruct his body for like months afterward
for him to come back.
It's threefold, one being that we don't believe that she could do this like her.
She we don't have any reason to believe this is something that she could do.
That's the least of the three problems from my perspective.
The second most significant.
Actually, no, that's that's number two.
The least most the least significant, but still the one that I know
a lot of people feel is that it looked retarded like it was so it made people laugh.
Like, I don't know how else to explain that one beyond like a subjective level.
It's just that it looked really funny.
Second being that it doesn't seem like something that you could do,
but thirdly being that she should just be dead in like so many different ways.
The the clip that I had from that, like astronaut or whatever,
who said that you'd be like an ice block on one side
and then like a fucking scorched skin on the other.
And the fact that she had frost in it, you can only survive
for, I think, between one and two minutes.
And she was out there for a while.
Like, it's just the whole audience was like, oh, she's dead now.
And then like, she's not.
Not only is she not, she was conscious enough to pull herself in.
Wasn't like she was rescued.
There's a lot of problems with that scene.
The fact that she pulls herself in zero G mechanically
isn't the problem, like specifically.
And I just I don't know.
Like, I don't know if he's going to address all of the issues,
but like, why would you go for the one that's the weakest?
I find that they do that a lot more.
People hated Leia pulling herself through zero gravity,
which isn't even a new ability, just an old one in a new context.
And yes, you can survive in space.
Oh, OK.
Animal experiments and human accidents have shown that people can likely
survive exposure to vacuum conditions for at least a couple of minutes.
There could be time for fellow crew members to rescue
and repressurize you with a few ill effects, except that's not what happened.
Research has found that chimpanzees could survive up to three point
five minutes in near vacuum conditions with no apparent cognitive defects.
It's not a cheap, cheap, cheap.
Yeah. I'm wondering what what being an old woman has to do with all of that.
Are you are you saying that Carrie Fisher is a chimp sexist?
I want to highlight that someone did this on Twitter a couple of weeks ago,
maybe a week ago, they cite an article that proved that she could have survived.
I literally clicked it and read it.
And it said that after a minute, you'd go unconscious.
She's unconscious at the beginning because she's blasted out of the thing.
She's like unconscious, then she wakes up.
That's not possible.
According to these articles, you cannot regain consciousness
once you're unconscious in space.
That's not a thing. I'm going to look this up.
The scientific American thing.
And someone's saying here, don't forget Leia is flying at around light speed
in that scene.
Don't recall that.
No, no. So that's actually a fourth issue.
So she's blown out of the ship at an angle.
And obviously, while the ship is moving, which pushes,
let's say the move the ship's moving by five, she's blown out while moving at five,
pushing it to like a seven, maybe, and in a different direction.
And she's unconscious for like a minute.
Do you understand how fucking far away she would be from the ship at that point?
So she's blow.
So if they're on the bridge, the bridge is in front, right?
Also, a lot of people are saying vacuum is not space.
Space, there are different.
Yeah, because in space, there's radiation and there's the light.
There's exposed heat.
So so I found the article that he cited
and he leaves out some things that might.
What a shock, everyone.
So one of the things is
it specifies vacuum conditions, not like the actual vacuum of space,
but conditions and we can make vacuum conditions on Earth.
It just won't have all the, you know, the the cold, the heat from the sun
or the radiation, all that shit.
So they're replicating these conditions.
First off, in second, there's a line right here
that says not that you would remain conscious long enough to rescue yourself,
which is the second paragraph of the article.
Yeah, he's left these parts out.
Pretty in a teal deer made a whole video about this.
A 42 minute video, surviving space.
Leia needed more than the force.
And the thumbnail just says why Leia is dead.
Why Leia is dead.
No way. Yeah, you're fucking dead.
He's also like I don't like this kind of like I would almost call this a cheap shot.
So he's like this.
None of this fucking matters, guys.
It's all nonsense, even though she would have survived moving on.
It's like, no, she wouldn't have.
No, she wouldn't have. OK.
No, she wouldn't have.
So here's another paragraph.
This is like the sixth paragraph on the article.
Water and dissolved gas in the blood forms bubbles in the major veins
which travel throughout the circulatory system and block blood flow.
After about one minute, circulation stops.
The lack of oxygen to the brain renders or effectively stops.
The lack of oxygen to the brain renders you unconscious in less than 15 seconds
and eventually kills you.
This is from the article he's citing.
Yes, this is from the Scientific American.
Oh, no, that's way worse than what you showed on the screen.
Let me just reread this sentence again.
The lack of oxygen to the brain renders you unconscious
in less than 15 seconds, eventually killing you.
I wonder why he didn't record this part.
I like how it specifies that people might be able to save you.
She saves herself.
Like, come on.
Yeah, yeah. Other people maybe in a vacuum
might be able to say special circumstances.
But but also this is researchers found that chimpanzees could survive
for that in near vacuum conditions.
Like, I wonder what those near vacuum conditions are.
Also, as was pointed out,
vacuum and space are two different things.
Space has got a lot more going on in it.
She's so fucking dead.
Anyway, I don't know.
I feel like this isn't something that I would do in a video of mine
because I would kind of feel like I'm being dishonest.
But, you know, I feel like it was us.
We'd probably go on a tangent into the article, right?
We'd be like, look at that many ways that you would die.
It's not even a question.
You're a gravity, which isn't even a new ability,
just an old one in a new context.
And yes, you can survive in space for a minute or two.
I googled it.
It's an awfully weird time to suddenly.
You're doing about we already said this was this was an atmosphere.
They're inside a creature.
They're not just on the naked area of space like this.
I just love the same.
I love that he says I googled it and it's like, yeah, well, I did, too.
And I saw some lines you decide not to leave in.
Yeah, we googled what you googled in it.
Yeah, we actually see this as it seems like you left some things out.
Yes, you can survive in space for a minute or two.
I googled it.
It's an awfully weird time to suddenly start caring about realism, isn't it?
I hate that argument so much.
Basically, you didn't care about it in this other thing.
Well, you can you can play.
She died in space.
She's not dying in space when you got a guy who shoots lightning out of his hands.
Oh, you care about realism all of a sudden.
It's like, oh, we never really.
It's not it's not what's not what's happening.
Really realism that way.
It depends on our suspension of the rules, the rules.
Sometimes this universe shares the rules that we have.
Sometimes it says, oh, so by the way, this space wizard can shoot lightning.
It's like your world, but they can do that, too.
I mean, like, OK, also, they have telekinesis.
OK, as long as you make that clear, it's fine.
But just because you can do that, doesn't that mean nothing makes any sense anymore?
That's not how this works.
For a minute or two, I googled it.
It's an awfully weird time to suddenly start caring about someone said you should
put that into Godel, the I googled it part.
I will. I should have been doing Godel quotes, actually.
What else has he said?
Anybody in chat, what does he say this could delve with the.
It's over, Anakin, I googled it.
What do you say, a couple of minutes for
minutes in space?
I'm an idiot. I googled it.
Size doesn't matter. I googled it.
I'm surprised he got that answer from Google.
Everybody just wants me to do I googled it.
All right, it's there. It's there.
Luke's projection is right in line with how the force was used in the originals.
His greatest achievement wasn't blowing up the Death Star.
He was resisting the dark side and refusing to.
Whoa, wait, slow down, slow down.
So he doesn't mean mechanically, he means like storytelling wise.
I guess because he said, like, it's in line with this.
In terms of development, like character development.
Yeah, blowing up the Death Star was like, yeah, it's obviously extremely important.
But in terms of like how it changed his character,
like it didn't it wasn't as important as him making conscious decisions
to do something to resist and urge to,
you know, to fight off his emotions, to be like not quite the same for Skype calls.
There's nothing in the O.T. that just stretches out to that, right?
There's nothing that we don't we don't watch anything happen in the O.T.
that makes us go, oh, for Skype calls, that should be a thing.
Or is there my missing other than the four ghosts?
That's probably the closest thing you could possibly grasp, but
I don't really think that's the same thing.
I don't really have an issue with the concept of this
of the four Skype calls, just more like what it was used for.
Yeah, I was going to say that I actually don't mind it.
It's just that I don't think there's any precedent for it, which, again,
not a problem, as long as you don't contradict anything.
It'd be one of those things to me that I'd kind of put up there
on more top tier sorts of abilities.
Like, sure, if if you if you if you put this idea
and this isn't an unreasonable thing at all, this happens in all kinds of fictions
where you have wizards and monks and warlocks and witches
and all kinds of different things where when you start out, you can only do so much.
But as you learn and as you become more and more powerful,
you could do more and more powerful things that people with less experience just can't do.
Like, yeah, let's hold on to that concept.
That's a really useful one.
It allows characters to grow in mechanical ways.
I would put four Skype calls, you know, kind of up there.
I just wanted to clarify.
So I think he's talking strictly on story that what he what he did
on crate is representative of what he did in the OT
because we've heard this argument before, but let's let's let him do it.
Time to suddenly start caring about realism, is I'm sorry.
Could you pause it real quick?
Yes, I know.
I know Superchats were leaving them to the end,
but I need to read this one out because you are the chosen one.
I googled it. Bill Bobby won Kenoggans.
Bill Bobby won Kenoggans.
Yeah, for anybody who's curious, we're we're planning to go for the full 1155 today.
We've got two to three videos, depending on how we do.
Loads of memes, non-copyrighted meme videos and Superchats.
We've we've got a lot to do.
So buckle in.
Luke's projection is right in line with how the force was used in the originals.
His greatest achievement wasn't blowing up the Death Star.
He was resisting the dark side and refusing to fight.
I guess it depends on your definition of achievement at that point.
So the projection aspect, but there's a physical.
So to say that the projection falls in line with him refusing to fight
is the contradicted by the fact that he tried to kill his nephew.
Well, in a sense, you know, you thought about it, well,
well, in the sense that projection is directly linked to that.
The issue that people have is that after all of the experiences
that he has had, just because he's fighting someone doesn't mean he's killing them.
It's odd that this would be these are the same thing.
Like he's I just thought it was interesting that he stated
that the achievement of like managing to resist the dark side
is greater than having destroyed the Death Star in A New Hope.
I find that I suppose from a character perspective, I would agree.
But like from the wider world,
because you didn't even kill the emperor.
The emperor is actually alive and well.
So compare that to destroying this monstrous space station
that was threatening to kill everybody who remains in this world
that was resisting the empire. I don't know.
I I will agree with him on a character level.
I'm not sure I agree on like a world level
in terms of what was Luke's greatest achievement.
Because A New Hope's finale, that was a pretty fucking amazing achievement. Yeah.
In the originals, his greatest achievement wasn't blowing up the Death Star.
He was resisting the dark side and refusing to fight.
That was the moment when he became a Jedi.
I am a Jedi like my father before me.
Well, it's time he says he becomes a Jedi.
I'm just having flashbacks to to Mark Hamill being like,
that's not what a Jedi does.
He doesn't give up.
Well, so it's just it's really strange that all this stuff happens.
And like Luke's
it just reminds me of how the the ending plan here, like Luke's plan is so.
Like weird, the way that it works, like, oh, I guess Ray's
just going to open up the cave for him.
And I guess they know to leave the cave and that it's a distraction.
Or why don't they think everyone else thinks that Luke is actually real
and he's going to be there to save him is like a lot of stuff just happens
to coincidentally happen for this, you know, quote unquote plan to come together.
That's just insane.
If he's about to break down the crate scene for us,
I am more than willing to go over how much crate makes no sense at all.
We'll let him go first in case people have forgotten how stupid crate is
from every character's perspective, but we'll totally do it if he wants to.
Because my God, I remember I think I made this comment
in the third part of my critique, but a lot of people were saying like,
oh, he hasn't covered crate yet.
As with my first two parts, it's like crate is the good part of the film.
And I remember being like, what the fuck, the good part.
No, but I am a Jedi
like my father before me.
His scene on crate is that same idea on a larger scale with Luke using
everything in a larger scale to resort of, I guess, but it doesn't do it.
That's the thing. He.
He is directly doing things with a plan of action
and in crate, it's just a mess of what's actually happening.
I suppose we should probably just go over it now and then cite
the individual parts that contradict anything that he's running with.
But so first of all, you have his knowledge that something's happening on crate.
That's like that's like Luke's perspective on Octu,
that everybody's getting chased to crate.
I don't even remember if Ray told him about crate or not,
but it doesn't really matter. We'll just let that go for now.
So he decides he's going to appear there
instead of go there himself, which, by the way, is going to become a problem.
Eventually, if you remember, someone we covered on IFA previously said
he couldn't have used the ship on Octu because it was waterlogged.
Yeah, apparently in the leaks, Ray is going to use that ship on Octu.
So that's going to fuck it up.
You got to be kidding me.
I just think it's funny.
We already have instances of waterlogged X-Wings being usable.
Yeah, there was a swab. Surely that's worse.
Yeah, we already have.
Anyway, so he gets there.
What is Luke's plan? Right.
We're Luke Skywalker. What is your plan?
It's like I I can see that the empire or the first order
about to assault all of my friends in the big cave.
Now, I can also see that you're going to use Luke's X-Wing
if she can get to Octu anyway.
No, she when she gets to Octu, she destroys her own ship.
She's in exile.
And then she decides she doesn't want to be in exile and uses his ship.
Why does she destroy her own ship?
Because she's exiling herself.
Well, if it makes total sense, you just say she exiles herself,
destroys her own ship, and then decides to use the ship in the water.
It's in the trailer.
She like arrives on Octu in the in a tie intercept or something
and she destroys it.
It's going to be the second act low point.
She's going to decide she has to come back.
Well, what I do, he's not going to do
the bring alcohol, like I said,
but anyone goes to see this movie, you need a drug.
Oh, my God, I'm I'm going to smoke my brains out before watching it
if I ever watch it.
So, yeah, like I said, he comes in and he's like, all right.
Ray is in the Millennium Falcon.
She's flying around.
She can be their escape.
Now, first problem you'll find
is that the hyperspace tracker is still active on any one of those star
destroyers, so they can't actually escape.
They do anyway, whatever.
So his plan is ignoring that that they can get on the Millennium Falcon,
but they need time.
So he's going to walk out into the middle of the field and delay
the first order from getting to them.
Now, if you guys remember,
the first order wouldn't have caught them like anyway,
like they they get ahead into the Millennium Falcon and hyperspace out
like well before Kylo or his men even get to the part where Ray
was opening up the stones.
So like I just don't I don't even know that Luke actually successfully delayed
them instead of just showing up to tell Kylo some shit.
But let's just assume fine.
He's doing it to delay.
He doesn't tell anyone this
and he doesn't tell anybody that there's an actual exit.
They just assume that they're like, Luke is here.
He must be here to give us a chance to escape.
And remember, Luke actually has a chance to tell them this.
He walks into the room to tell Leia like he has a conversation with him.
He doesn't tell her anything about how to escape or live.
It's like, wow, you're
you're really running on the fact that they're going to interpret your actions
with a certain message, I suppose.
Then he he tells Kylo that he's not there to save him.
Like, doesn't doesn't Kylo say something like you're here to save my soul?
And he just goes, no, no.
I remember like very well, like I I went to go save Darth Vader.
Fucking Darth Vader.
But you. Yeah, you, Kylo.
Oh, you're just you're just unreasonable.
I could. Oh, man.
Not you, Kylo. Darth Vader.
Yes. But then not you.
We just have to assume that Luke knew
that he had delayed him enough when he disappears.
The like, he just does it like it seems like he just goes like, well,
now's my time to disappear. It's like, did he know?
I guess he did. Yeah, he lets Kylo discover the illusion. Yeah.
I don't know.
And then you have the whole like are inspired the universe.
Like, how what is the story here?
Like, I want to really push this because I really hate the idea
that him destroying the emperor and his team destroying the second death star
and freeing the world.
That story stays under the rug and disappears over 30 years.
But this story, this is the one that inspires children
all over the universe to stand up.
It's like, why? What is it? What happened?
How did that story get out?
Who told who? And didn't any stormtrooper tell anyone?
It's like, no, he wasn't even there is a fucking illusion.
He just disappeared.
What a fucking bitch.
He didn't even show up in person.
This guy's a fucking coward.
Yeah, so so I guess my position on all this,
it's just it's a disaster.
I have no idea what the hell they were trying to do.
And I have no idea what Luke knew at what times and what decisions
he was actually making.
Loads of people like to ignore all of it and just say,
don't you see Luke defeated Kylo with pacifism?
You're like, what? He he.
What? He inspired them.
I googled it.
He defeated Luke with pacifism.
Kylo, Wolf, get it right.
Or Kylo, right?
Yeah, let's all right.
Now let's hear his take.
Like my father before me.
His scene on crate is that same idea on a larger scale,
with Luke using everything he learned about the force
to resolve the situation peacefully.
The people saying he genuinely should have been there
taking down at at walkers like a badass or missing the point.
No, there's no he should have been there.
Not we're not talking about he has to destroy the entire enemy army
and be some crazy war hero.
But he should have been there.
We've heard this before.
I can't remember what video it was for the person who said,
like, you should jump around destroying every 88 the counter we had,
because for some reason, they create this false dichotomy.
They're the two options.
The one we presented that I think would have been way better
is he's actually there.
He's fired upon the smoke clears and all of the lasers are held
in one position and he dissipates them like pacifism or throws them back.
You could have him throw them back.
I don't know that it would be kind of cool to see him do the whole like,
this doesn't bother me, like it's almost like Neo at that point.
There's no reason why you can't have a whole bunch of different things happen.
You could even have him have a fake vision of himself,
just a trick that the real one comes out.
You can use so many different things you can do.
Why do you have to why do you have to have it be a ghost
that he projected is so strange.
Saying he genuinely should have been there
taking down at at walkers like a badass or missing the point.
Maybe what those people wanted to see, even then, I would prefer that.
Destructive power is a sith thing.
We always. Why is Luke killing all the rebels?
I like the image of him just smiling at the dead body on the ceiling.
And yeah, it's either it's zero or ten.
There's no difference there.
There's no in between.
It's either, yeah, Luke's just an illusion who doesn't fucking do anything
or Luke is basically like Darth Vader.
Is he just slaughtering the enemy?
If you ever wanted to see a straw man, ladies and gentlemen,
this is what you wanted.
What? Jesus Christ.
Fuck up that straw man. OK.
Yeah, this is definitely what we were all wanting.
I always wanted like I want to see what it would have been
like to watch Rogue One with that scene at the end.
Luke is just slashing through all the rebels.
Like, why?
Just grinning like an idiot.
Who is this man?
Guy uses the force for knowledge and defense.
Never attack.
But they were basically soldiers and assassins.
And so you get that when you defend, it will involve an attack,
as in like if you engage in a battle to defend someone's life,
you're going to have to throw what would be considered an attack at them.
Do you guys follow what I'm trying to say?
The whole idea that like, let's just say you have a baby
who's just googoo gagging on the floor.
Sith goes to stab him.
You are a Jedi.
Would you do you can defend the baby with with the with a repost, right?
Or something? Does that just mean that you can't ever hurt anyone?
Yeah, like, why don't you just force push, force push the Sith away
or force pull the baby towards you into your hands or something?
Or it's not all don't be there at all.
Or yeah, like everyone.
I don't know that we should take this to the point where we just go.
Every Jedi should just sit down and calm, calm the fuck down.
There's a time for action.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
Like, I just I don't think it means you can never attack a person.
The prequels send me to kill the emperor.
Well, hello.
If you don't kill the emperor, he takes over the whole fucking universe.
I don't know the idea is like,
the way to do it is to let him be like, oh, this is a this is a war.
By the way, and it's he's a Sith Lord.
He's like, don't tell me that Jedi just don't kill Sith anymore.
Like, that's not a thing that they do.
He's highly an Obi-Wan going personally to execute the leader of an army
to dissipate the CIS and prevent the war from continuing.
This is apparently like an aggressive attack.
You know, like not defense.
OK, what about holdovers?
Then he uses Grievous.
Not that holders are Jedi, but.
You know, same principle.
Holdo fucking did she attack people?
Did that does that count or is it not?
I don't know. This is weird to me, like Jedi and all.
Why do they even have lightsabers?
Exactly. What's the point is like the idea of I've been suddenly.
I mean, I carry a gun.
It's like I don't go out.
I don't leave my house saying like, man, I can't wait to shoot a bitch.
You know, it's like it's there if I need it just in case.
Let's hope it doesn't ever come to that.
Let's hope I don't ever have to use it.
But if I got it, then I got it.
Hey, Wolf, do you know the same way with the lightsabers?
This is this is going to be a crazy reference.
But do you remember a character advocating for how
Thanksgiving is like not a good celebration in Buffy
because of all the natives that died?
Yes. Do you remember that she advocates for pacifism
throughout like the whole episode against the the enemies
that are like the ghosts of the past?
Uh, people who are wrong to the second they attack her,
she goes crazy and kills them.
And she's like, she in the end of the episode is like, oh,
point being that you may advocate for pacifism.
But if someone tries to fucking kill you,
pacifism is a difficult way to disable them.
But if you're going to be like, well, Luke did at the end of Crete,
it's like Luke didn't do shit.
He delayed them for like a couple of seconds with the ghosts. I don't know.
I don't know.
Just like citing the the Obi-Wan taking out Grievous
ending the Separatist war.
It's like, look at him, that that murder hungry asshole.
I was like, what do you mean?
It's just a good thing.
Stop sort of like stopping to stop a war.
They're in a war at that point.
It's like, eh, eh, you're already in the war now.
Lightsabers are meant only to defend your an attacking lightsaber.
OK, from Sith. Yeah, specifically.
And all laser blasts.
We're basically soldiers and assassins in the prequels.
Send me to kill the Emperor.
Attack Kenobi.
Luke, you realize he's surrounded by a bunch of battle droids
with guns pointed at him.
And if he doesn't attack, he's going to die anywhere.
Right. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm trying to like.
I just Grievous is Grievous is a bad, bad man who controls a lot of power.
And he's a general in this war that they're currently engaged with.
I this is absolutely stupid.
What he should have done and have to discuss is project a ghost
vision of himself to Grievous and then explain to Grievous.
So what he's doing is a good thing. All right.
Are you here to kill me? No.
OK, then I I I want us to agree to disagree on this whole thing.
OK, are you like hiding somewhere like behind a barrel or something?
He's got a little like a little laptop in the upstairs of this place
where he's projecting the whole thing.
Don't do it. Are you on our Wi-Fi?
How did you get the password?
I'm sorry, people are going to be upset that Rags called Grievous a bad man.
It's true. The bad man.
Do you know how much knowledge with it takes to keep a droid army running on Wi-Fi?
I just want to see the prequel versions now where everybody talks to each other
and just is like, hey, you know what? All this death, not with it.
Someone said pacifist like the people from Wakanda.
Need to kill the emperor pacifist asterisk.
Luke, using knowledge instead of violence
to win the fight is the most Jedi thing in the series.
He didn't win the fight.
There was no fight in the fight.
They they ran away.
They're still evil.
What do you mean? Yeah.
The enemy suffered no casualties.
They resistance barely escaped with their survivors in their lives.
They barely escaped.
And if anything, they escaped because of a bunch of coincidences happening.
They only survived because of the incredible incompetence of the First Order.
Oh, no, the First Order lost some TIE fighters.
They have like thousands more.
But yeah, that that wasn't a win.
That was we barely survived. Holy shit. Rags.
You don't understand.
He didn't destroy the rebels hope.
So Luke still wins.
Oh, yeah, I just what what a baffling thing.
It must be to look at that crate stuff and go, yeah,
that was definitely a double you for the resistance.
It's like I sit down, set up a chess game for me and Rags and Rags.
Like, I can't turn up and I'm like, well, I guess you won.
Curse you again next time.
I'll play.
But it ignited a controversy because it's not in the rule book.
Ryan Johnson, why do you keep appealing to this?
And made the mistake of posting an epsarps that reference contradicts the rule book.
It's done. Isn't this rule book from Disney, though?
Like, it didn't count because he's citing new canon to justify his canon ability
and haters immediately descended on him because it wasn't canon.
Exactly.
What's the problem?
That's how it works.
There's a reason why Gandalf can't just show up in fucking Star Wars.
We have rules.
There's restrictions.
You fucking moron.
I hate to break it to anyone, but one fictional book of fake space facts
isn't any more or less real than another fictional book of fake space.
Oh, my God. All right.
It's just got really going to do this.
What do you want to begin?
I don't know.
I'm just going to begin by saying I'm so happy we're covering Tonald after this.
Why are they saying equally true here?
Who are you to tell? Who are you?
He's well, he's appealing to the silliness again.
He's like, dude, this book of facts is no more gay than this book of facts.
And you're like, if you don't have consistent rules,
then things get broken very easily.
Now, there is a discussion to be had on what is canon
and everyone can use different definitions.
The one I usually go with is whoever officially owns the IP
and what they say is canon, because other than that,
I don't know how to make it consistent, fair and understandable.
But we all recognize that Disney is the one who decides canon now.
That's the problem.
Like we we wreck, we can.
Yes, we can all recognize what the problem is.
I mean, how many like didn't like people had a problem
after Frank Herbert died in his son started writing dunes or something like that.
I heard a lot of the books weren't very good and people had some issues with them.
But it's like, yeah, that's kind of read.
I've read all of Frank Herbert's Dune books
and the first two of I think its name is Brian Herbert.
Brian's books are not good.
They have a lot of issues with them.
They really lose what made the core of Dune in the first place.
Not that Frank Herbert's books were all great to begin with.
I really only consider the first Dune to be the great one.
And everything else just kind of loses me after that point.
But Brian's books were really bad.
So if. If you have
like in a situation like that, just like with Star Wars,
people recognize that, oh, yeah, this is canon.
But again, the problem is that those things are canon and they cause issues.
Do you think Kanto Bight will tune up in this video?
I'm sure it will.
I'm curious.
But yeah, it's interesting that he's like, these are extensions of powers.
These powers come from these places.
This is, you know, expansive, creative, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Then he's like, also, by the way, whatever is canon doesn't matter.
Like what. Oh.
Well, then what even is continuity without canon?
The specs, there was never any real definition of canon.
Things shifted in and out of it all the time.
And the sheer volume of extraneous books and games led to a convoluted code.
Yeah, again, so you have to you have to come up with one that at least lines up
with some level of like reasonability.
You don't just say anything with the name Star Wars on it is canon
because of what Disney had done.
And so, yeah, like the idea that there's something hugely
contradictive in the Disney sequel film to the EU, which I'm sure there's plenty
of that Disney have the actual authority to be like, we've purchased this IP.
It is within our right to say that that is no longer canon.
But this is an as a consumer of what is their content now.
They purchased it fair and square.
Like, what else can we do?
If you want to say that things are only canon according to your personal preference,
that's totally fine by me.
I just don't know that we can have these conversations anymore
if everybody's changing what they think is canon.
That makes sense.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I just like how else can we do canon?
I mean, yeah, it goes back to I think.
Canon is one of those things, especially when IPs change hands.
Ideally, canon is great when a single entity or person
who has immense respect for the world that's being created
is consistent and they devote time and effort to ensuring that it all works
as it should, but then you have like Star Wars
where canon is just it's they're just playing fast and loose
with the rules all the time and they're doing this and that and oh, all that stuff.
It isn't canon anymore.
And all of this stuff that we're doing is now we recognize.
It's not controversial to say that we all know who, you know,
is making the canon and what the canon is.
The problem is that it is canon and that there are people making canon
who just don't seem to who are unworthy of it.
Well, an interesting comparison is that Ghostbusters 2016
and Terminator three, four, five are all decanonized now.
Technically speaking, I think you could make the argument
that Terminator three, four and five are still canon.
They were just wiped out by the events of Genesis,
the events of Dark Fate, even though Genesis wiped out two minute one and two.
So actually, I think they do have to be decanonized.
They can't make sense otherwise.
I can't remember if they've actually been on record saying that,
but it's kind of where I'm coming from with this.
Most people will accept whatever the IP is saying,
which whoever currently owns is canon is canon.
Other than that, you're going to get some what I would call arbitrary rules
or at least more arbitrary than whatever the IP holder says.
Because I don't think anyone's crying that Ghostbusters 2016 is no longer canon.
I think I think that's pretty cool, actually.
Unless you're a feminist.
But to try and say that, like, Canon's all wishy washy, flippy, flappy anyway.
So who cares? Stop doing this.
Stop appealing to like giving up to be like, oh, well, fuck it.
Stop saying that.
Try a little harder. Come on.
Coding system to determine canonosity by ranking.
The only person whose opinion should matter on this is the creator of the series.
And I don't read that stuff.
I haven't read any of the novels.
I don't know anything about that wheel.
There's a different oil than my wheels.
George Lucas and Starlog.
Um, I don't know what that's regarding because he was involved
with the Clone Wars, right?
I guess he doesn't know about the EU books.
I mean, there's a lot of EU books, so I don't fault him for that.
Yeah, there's a lot.
But I'm I'm I'm almost certain George Lucas cares about what is canon, though.
Yeah, I'm well, maybe not anymore, because, you know,
oh, I mean, I think I think he does.
George Lucas didn't care for much of anything other than the films
in the Clone Wars show, right?
The Emperor doesn't get cloned.
Luke doesn't get married.
And Jar Jar is the best Star Wars character.
That's canon. All right, you son of a bitch.
Well, he's right.
Jar Jar is the best character.
Yeah, we all we all recognize that.
Yeah, not controversial to ensure that urban storyline is totally canon.
And that includes the last Jedi.
So, yes, everything in the film is totally can.
Yeah, that's the problem.
Yeah, we know that's the problem.
As we said, it's not that the problem.
The problem isn't that we don't accept it as canon.
The problem is that it is canon and it's fucking nonsense.
Yeah, I was going to say, like, it's if we didn't accept it as canon,
we wouldn't care.
We just be like, well, it's not canon.
So who gives a fuck?
The problem, we're trying to explain why it sucks that this is canon.
I like that he's got like giddy Yoda as like almost being like, ha ha.
It's a ha ha. It's all canon.
That's bad.
It's like, you know, we're laughing at this stuff now.
Like you think episode nine is something that we're going to take seriously?
Fuck no.
I can guarantee you episode nine will damage T.L.J.
So it'll turn it from like this pile of sludge into like a rotting pile of sludge, I guess.
And it's going to be funny.
Just I can't wait for the first Dfap we do covering a video essay
that explains how episode nine ruined T.L.J.
Like that'll be the day.
The canon that includes the last Jedi.
So, yes, everything in the film is totally canon.
And if you take issue with that, why is this bureaucratic system
any less legitimate than what came before?
Who is saying it's not canon as in like as a criticism of the film?
Wouldn't the whole point be that they criticizing it because it's canon?
Do you know what I mean?
Like you can't hold those two positions at the same time.
Can you? That's non canon and it's stupid.
As in it doesn't make sense with the canon.
I mean, people say that in the sense that I'm like, you know,
after episode six, I just stop.
There's no more in my mind.
But like we know that it's like you can't just it's not a switch
that you can just flick off and you just and you forget the sequel trilogy.
What I'm saying is, why would you have someone saying
it doesn't make sense with canon?
Also, it's not canon like you just be like, well, then you just
it not making sense of canon is fine because it's not canon, right?
I mean, if that is, is that the criteria here?
Is that if it is not if it doesn't?
Like, I just I just figured that the point of this video
was to try and explain how this you called it a guide to the last Jedi.
Like, why would you be addressing people who think it's a non canon?
I really would.
Hmm. Well, if you don't interpret it as a sequel.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
It's only a sequel if you interpret it as a sequel. Yeah.
Like I'll be the first to agree that this is some garbage canon.
But with how I understand canon works, my hands are tied. Yeah.
Again, it's not the the problem is that it is canon.
That's what the problem is.
I guess. Yeah, I guess my issue comes from him being like, ha ha, it's canon.
Again, like my initial reaction is like, well, yeah.
Yeah, if we if that world was real,
if that was the real world that we lived in, then there would be some issues
that we would have to resolve here so that.
You know, you don't see us hunting down fan fictions,
videos or articles or books or anything like going,
this this doesn't make sense with episode four, because we're like,
we're going for what we're being told mainstream by the IP owners that this is canon.
And it's different to entertain the idea of like fan fictions and stuff
and actual stuff released by the owners.
Anyway, continue.
Is this bureaucratic system any less legitimate than what came before?
If you need a committee to rubber stamp your fantasy adventure
plot points for your consumption, maybe you're the one who doesn't understand
what the force is about.
Well, hang the fuck on and we hear that again.
I want to make sure I heard him.
OK, storyline is totally canon, and that includes the last Jedi.
So, yes, everything in the film is totally canon.
And if you take issue with that, why is this bureaucratic system
any less legitimate than what came before?
If you need a committee to rubber stamp your fantasy adventure
plot points for your consumption,
maybe you're the one who doesn't understand what the force is about.
So because you want to catalog and understand it, you don't.
Understand it.
So your desire to want to make sense of it means you don't understand it.
Yeah. And like we only consider canon.
What is, quote unquote, rubber stamped by a committee that in this case
being Disney, I suppose, saying that this episode is canon.
Like I said, my position is I don't know how I can make it meaningful
for something to be canon outside of just myself
if I don't appeal to a wider standard like whoever owns the IP.
If we don't appeal to something like that, then, yeah, canon is literally different
for every single person.
And at that point, how do you have any conversations?
All I would say is like Rags is like, oh, I didn't really like General Grievous.
I'm like, doesn't matter. He's non canon.
This is just a this seems to be just a restatement
of kind of what happened before that he'd already said.
I don't know why he's made this point.
You shoot.
Yeah, like, why can't I just say maybe you don't understand how the force works?
Well, what a condescending thing to say anyway.
It almost like weirdly dirty.
You have not a force work.
OK, maybe you don't understand it.
All right. You're taking a shot at the super fans earlier.
But all right.
I mean, we know you're a fan.
That's what you said at the beginning of this, but it's just really.
Odd way to go about it.
Think about fans hated the midichlorians
because it made the force into something small and knowable.
If you've condensed the force into a book that could be sold by.
So not the only reason it turned it into a physical manifestation
that could be measured inside of people, you know, like you were born.
And you're once you were born, it was basically genetic.
What I usually appeal to that is the I can't remember if this is originally
said by Plinkett or someone else, but the whole you can literally test people
for midichlorians and find out who the powerful Jedi is in the Senate.
I kind of like fucks with everything.
Well, yeah, there's that meme going around about
Anakin talking with
Mace Windu about, oh, yeah,
Duke, who told me that there was a powerful sith in the Senate
or in the Senate is like, all right, let's just do midichlorian
tests on everybody and find out who it is.
And then credit rolls.
You know, it. It's just it causes issues.
If you're trying to go like, well, all it says is indicative of their potential.
I'd be like, yeah, still, still.
Maybe this is the thing.
I don't think midichlorians are anywhere near as damaging
as half the shit in the fucking prequels.
It's just there's a couple of things that get really fucked up
when you really think about it.
But yeah, like he so he's saying that because the force was almost
prescribed this like series of details and categorization,
and that's what fans had a problem with.
Trying to categorize the force is only going to have the same result
or something like that. And it's like, no, you can play in two different things.
Right. So the idea that someone can use force push.
That's cool with all of us, especially a Jedi, they push a chair over.
Most, if not all, can do that.
Someone pushing a star destroyer into a sun with force push, we'd be like,
now you've taken it a little bit too far, because if you can do that,
what could be threatening to you ever?
You have to have limitations, right?
And he's like, no, no, limitations will ruin it.
And it's like, no, it actually makes the stakes much clearer
as opposed to you could just like I said, force invincibility.
Why not? That's cool and new and interesting.
Isn't that creative, guys?
What do you think? Creative?
Yeah, it's almost like just use the force.
Use the real world of the force being able to it's not like weight
like weightlifting in a way is like, yeah, all the Jedi
can do the really basic stuff.
You could pick up boxes and things, but like really, really heavy stuff.
And that takes a lot of training and a lot of like the mental version of that
where it takes concentration and understanding and wisdom
and all that stuff that goes into it.
So you can kind of scale it to something that's relatable.
Force into something small and knowable.
If you've condensed the force into a book that could be sold by Kenner,
haven't you done the same thing?
No, I didn't. Here's another thing you can't do anymore.
Pretend for a second that you're seeing Darth Vader for the very first time.
OK, what is he? Is he even human?
We find out that he used to be a Jedi before turning evil.
OK, how did he get in the suit?
Oh, I cut his arms and legs off and left him to die in the river of lava.
Not mentioning that would have been strange.
We find out in the next.
Yeah, well, no, the reason he doesn't mention it
is because he doesn't want to tell Luke.
He was deliberately hiding the truth.
He hides a lot from Luke.
That's part of the story.
That's something that he does.
I mean, it's weird in the sense that he's
it's not typically what you associate Obi-Wan with.
It's it seems strange that he wouldn't.
It's almost manipulative.
I mean, it kind of is, but for a good cause.
I'm trying to think of like what exactly his point there is, like the
there was mystery behind Vader and it was ruined by the prequels.
Is that the point?
I mean, that's just the nature of mystery to where the more you learn
about something, the less mystery there is.
Yeah, like, but that's kind of inherent to the concept.
You must have loved Force Awakens, then.
Mystery everywhere, mysteries that went nowhere.
What do you guys prefer, a mystery that gets answered eventually
or a mystery that ever gets answered?
Like, where did Baskinata get Luke's lightsaber from?
Um, a mystery that never.
I mean, it honestly, that depends on what it is that we're looking at.
If we take a dead space is a good example.
If you especially in like a horror kind of setting.
Learning everything that there is to learn about it can,
especially if that explanation is not very good,
really take away from the horror aspect of it.
Turns out that the marker just feeds into a moon
and it turns into a giant space squid.
Yeah, it'd be like a lack of knowing lack of knowledge.
You know, the mystery of the unknown can be terrifying.
And if you explain it in that way, they could remove it.
But when it comes to characters, how did Darth Vader become this?
What happened to a normal person that would change them into this kind of being?
Yeah, I mean, if it's told well, I would prefer that.
I mean, it depends.
There's no reason why a character of Darth Vader is going to be worse
because of explaining the mystery unless the explanation is done nonsenseically
or if it does things like violate canon or doesn't follow the rules of the universe.
You know, that sort of thing.
And then I guess I'm trying to like.
So he's saying, like, there's no room for mystery anymore with these fans.
Like, I don't know, man, people love TFA is when the mysteries
got flattened, that everyone got pissed.
It wasn't the mysteries existing on their own.
I was ready for I was ready to find out about Snoke, ready to find out
about that lightsaber, ready to find out about Luke, ready to find out
what happened in the span between these two episodes.
We got Buckle.
And now that it all came crashing down.
Some legs off and left him to die in the river of lava.
Not mentioning that would have been strange.
We find out in the next film that he's Luke's father,
which tells us more about Luke than it does about Vader.
We already knew that he was a good Jedi at one point.
He's still such a mystery at the end of the trilogy
that just seeing his face felt like a giant revelation.
We didn't really need details on Vader for the story that was being told.
I don't think anyone argued that you needed these details.
But is anyone opposed to having them like I'd like them?
Did you all have done really badly?
It's like, not really.
No, I would rather I'd rather them not done at all than badly.
But I'd rather have them done good.
But sure, there are times where I would maybe advocate that like, yeah,
I personally don't need the backstory myself.
But that doesn't I don't think that means that like it's definitive, you know,
every mystery for every person, different people are going to want to know
different things.
The idea behind a mystery is that something did make sense
to make the thing happen.
It's up to you to think about what it could be.
Or do you want the answer?
And at risk of the answer being well written or poorly written.
And the mystery of what happened to him was a major component of his character.
It inspired people to continue wondering about him
long after the films were over.
When the prequels explicitly showed how he turned,
a lot of people were disappointed that it didn't live up to their imagination.
A lot of people were disappointed, though.
Yeah, a lot of people were totally right with it.
Especially these days, there's a shit ton of prequel fans
that are very vocal these days saying that the prequels are strong and that
I remember the the criticisms that it ruined Vader, the prequels.
But a lot of the times you'll find a lot of people saying that
now it really strengthens his history.
And I think there's enough of an argument to be made
that Vader and Anakin are completely different characters.
So I don't I wasn't really bothered by how much of a bitch Anakin was for three movies.
I mean, the the events he goes through in episode three
are more than enough to dramatically change a person, right?
And then the fact that he's locked into this suit.
Yeah, I just think that like the difference between Anakin and Darth Vader,
it doesn't really ruin Darth Vader since they're practically different characters.
Yeah, I can see that.
And how much time passes between episode three and four?
Is it 19 years? Oh, 19. OK.
Yeah, so you have all of that plus 19 years of him going through all that.
Yeah, not to mention the fact that
he's now going to be perceived very differently from everybody.
And he's a part of an empire.
Like what I'm advocating for here is that, of course, he's going to change.
People are going to be terrified of him from his suit alone.
So he's probably going to he's not going to be Anakin anymore.
Yeah. And all of this stuff was set up really well
so that the gap between three and four is much more reasonable
than the gap between six and seven.
Well, what I've always advocated for with Luke is that I need to see what changed him.
Yes, you can take a gap once I've seen what would have been the catalyst.
You can't show it to me in three flashbacks that change.
What the hell? We saw all of it for Vader.
But not that he's making that argument.
He's just saying that without mystery, things go bad, I suppose.
Quills explicitly showed how he turned.
A lot of people were disappointed that it didn't live up to their imaginations.
And that's a lesson that Star Wars fans can't seem to learn
because after decades of getting books, comics, video.
I'm sorry, you've just you've just declared that mystery is always better.
Yeah, I definitely don't agree with that.
Definitely don't agree.
Someone named Raka made that comic.
Raka, I just think in Raka Raka Ali.
And it's I kind of want to read this comic to see what's in there now.
Heh, heh.
You know what's funny?
I would controversially back in the day say that I think Jango is way better than Boba.
And one of my reasoning, part of my reasoning would be the the bounty hunter game
where I learned loads about his character and really enjoyed the story
and how he got caught up with the empire.
Point being, the someone could be like, do you prefer that Jango Boba?
It's totally mysterious. I'd be like, uh.
Not really. I don't know. I like find it out about him.
So like just this idea that it's just definitive, like,
you stupid fools always looking for the answers.
It's like, oh, like there's no context where that's OK. OK.
It's taken for granted that we'll get to know every last detail.
It's great that fans love this universe so much,
but the fixation on literal detail suffocates the larger mythology.
You can't make this point while showing Snoke.
That's ridiculous. Yeah, yeah.
That's kind of that's at this point.
I would just be like, so you just don't want to know anything.
Just nothing makes any sense.
Everything's just mysterious and dark. Anything can happen.
Anything could just get pulled out of anyone's ass at any time
for whatever reason, as long as it serves something do to do.
I know there are no rules. There is no explanation.
You know, by creating rules, you remove mystery, right?
If you catch a person going like, I need to know Greedo's history. OK.
You need it. I'd be like, all right.
I don't know. I don't know.
Then someone goes, yeah, I'd like to know Snoke's history.
I'd be like, well, yeah, that makes sense
because he's like the only thing that connects two trilogies character.
But then you just have this guy being like, oh, my God,
you want to know everything.
Allergy that Star Wars is a vehicle for, for example,
when Snoke appeared in The Force Awakens without a backstory, fans rioted
and caused 15 million dollars in damages at the memory.
What? What?
Is that a joke or is that real?
I'm assuming that's a joke.
Snoke was revealed.
No, no, we wanted to know who he was.
We didn't have a problem with him existing.
We were like, oh, who is this?
Yeah, I think I was going to happen with this guy.
Who's who's he? How did he rise to power?
Where did he come from?
Shouldn't you be making a joke about TLJ, not TFA?
I think it should be like when Snoke was killed, people rioted.
I may. Did he?
I mean, he's I mean, he's fucked.
We're just we're just deliberating in what way he fucked up here.
Yeah, suffocates the larger mythology that Star Wars is a vehicle for.
For example, when Snoke appeared in The Force Awakens without a backstory,
fans rioted and caused 15 million dollars in damages at the premiere.
What about the emperor?
He's even more powerful than Vader.
He looks like he's a thousand years old.
He wiped out the Jedi and turned a democracy into a fascist empire.
There's obviously a story to tell there, and yet we learn nothing about where he came.
Yeah, we don't need to know how he did that.
Yeah, this is we've done this before this.
I can't believe people are still making this argument.
It's insane. So Snoke and the emperor.
What is the difference?
Why does one why do people want to know the history of one and not the other?
And by the way, we're discounting the prequels for this argument.
Pretend they don't exist for a second.
So Palpatine being in power isn't a problem
because when we join this universe, we're told an empire is in charge.
This guy's at the top.
The empire control the majority of the planets.
There's a small band of rebels who are trying to, let's say, escape them.
Like, OK, yes, we don't actually.
We're not starting at step two.
This is step one.
The creation of the universe with all of the givens, you take that.
And then after that point, if something happens that requires an explanation,
then that's the problem.
It's moving from one step to the other.
It's not the beginning.
Yeah. And the easy comparison is that you have, let's just say, a TV show.
You know, like you see in all your characters, everything's going normal.
Next episode, everything slipped upside down.
Half of them are dead. Several of them are old.
You're like, uh, what did I miss?
You know, none of them are in power anymore.
Like, wow, is this guy who's taken over everything?
Like, what? OK, I'm sorry.
Like, what what the hell happened?
And by the way, you could theoretically do this.
You just need to provide us all the information we need to understand how this
all happened, but they never did.
They just fucking gave up.
They just they just skip forward.
They gave us loads of action scenes in TFA, loads of gun shootings and ships flying.
And did you guys see the death star bigger?
It blew up five planets or like six or whatever.
It was so cool.
Oh, man. Like, this would be like one of those.
What if in the real world another Holocaust happened?
You'd be like, holy shit.
How did that how was that a thing that happened?
How did we not stop that knowing that we had one before
and we've all accepted that it's terrible?
Like, how did this happen?
Yeah. And then everyone just doesn't talk about it.
And just like, oh, oh, hello.
So the stakes are all fucked, because now we don't know how the hell
the bad guys regenerate, we don't know where the hell this guy came from.
How did this guy convert Kylo or Ben when he was surrounded by people
like Han Solo, Luke Skywalker and Leia?
Like, how did that happen?
It's just like it just did.
And it feels a little bit like betrayal.
And then you see Luke being a cowardly asshole.
The same thing again.
How did that happen?
That's not the guy we know.
We get we get given a flashback.
How did this shit video convince anybody that TLJ is good?
Well, I was going to say, these are our guys.
This is pretty this is pretty weak sauce stuff.
We've had all these arguments before.
Like, I don't want to be repetitive, but like, you know, hopefully
it's been long enough that people can feel like this is interesting to talk about.
But like, yeah, Snoke deserves no more backstory than the Emperor.
I've heard that argument.
Luke defeated Kylo with pacifism, just like he did with the Emperor.
It's like, I heard that argument.
We've been there before.
All these ones tried out.
I haven't heard the one that nothing is candid technically.
So why do you care? That's a new one for me.
But yeah, let's kick on about how we don't need Snoke's backstory.
A thousand years old, he wiped out the Jedi and turned a democracy into a fascist empire.
There's obviously a story to tell there, and yet we learn nothing
about where he came from in the film.
The Emperor is important within the Star Wars universe.
But to us as an audience, his main importance is that he's
the wedge between Luke and Vader.
Luke is the angel on Vader's shoulder.
He's still important to the universe.
He's the boss of the bad guys that control the universe.
Yeah, not just important.
Very, very important.
He's doing shit.
Stuff's happening.
Similar to Snoke, I will happily concede that Snoke is important
to Kylo on a character level fine, but he's also important to the world.
And by the way, I would have liked to have known what his relationship
with Kylo was beyond you're you're beaten by a girl, little stupid boy.
And then kills him later because it doesn't like Snoke.
Oh, what a relationship.
I learned a lot.
You know, the scenes with Palpatine and Vader are fucking great.
The that one scene where they are where the Emperor is revealed
talking and talking, that's great.
The Emperor is not just forgiving as I am.
Like, oh, my God.
Just when we start like hearing the Emperor's voice for the first time
or in that movie anyway, and hearing him like laugh or cackle
and talk about we're going to fucking kill everybody.
And if somebody points out the chat like people enjoyed in the prequels,
the idea of Palpatine's rise to power, like that's something
that people generally really liked.
So, OK, he called him a boy.
They were good with that shit.
This is like a classic meme.
Palpatine is the devil to have him regale us with the details
of how he came to power would just be a distraction
from the scene that we were there to see.
Yeah, the prequels like if they were going to tell his story,
they wouldn't have it in those scenes.
They would have it in their own separate movies because the stakes
do not change for the OT whether or not the prequels exist.
This is not the same as Snoke.
Try harder.
Snoke has even less of a need for a backstory
since he's an offshoot of that character.
What?
What? What?
Less of a need for a backstory.
The power would just be a distraction from the scene
that we were there to see.
No, we need to know how we go from the end of the Jedi
to the beginning of The Force Awakens
because it doesn't make sense without the context.
How how is he how is he so backwards?
I mean, the reason why it works in the OT is because we didn't have context
for what the universe was like beforehand.
This is just what we're introduced with.
But we already have six movies
to establish how the universe was like and how it got from the prequels
to the OT and at the end of the OT, everything's good.
How does it go from there 30 years later to TFA?
It doesn't make sense.
We need to understand that context in order to establish.
It's just been a disbelief anyway.
It's like it's like building a Jenga tower, right?
When you start out at the bottom, there's nothing to work against you.
It's just you just sitting down some blocks and that's your foundation.
And there's nothing more than that that you need.
The more that you add to the top of it, the more that you have to take
into consideration all of the stuff that you've built up to that point.
Because if you don't, you're going to have some issues.
Snoke is an issue because he is acting seemingly contradictory to a lot of stuff.
No, well, maybe not not contradictory, but in the in the context
of the world in which he's in,
we need an explanation as to how this could happen
given previous information that it's built upon.
That's the issue.
Yeah, if your bottom blocks are evil empire,
noble resistance and the empire is led by an evil emperor.
OK, yeah, so there's no problems here.
You can elaborate on that if you wish,
but there's nothing that requires an explanation for storytelling purposes.
That's the baseline.
Everything is built.
It's baffling that he's concluded that there's like less of a need for Snoke.
A Jenga Fett tower.
He's not even arguing for equal.
He's arguing for.
I just am regale us with the details of how he came to power
would just be a distraction from the scene that we were there to see.
Snoke has even less of a need for a backstory,
since he's an offshoot of that character.
I want to be emperor trying to assume the same role.
We how do you know that essentially fulfills the function of an emperor, though?
Like in what way is he not an emperor?
Yeah, how is how is he failing to achieve?
He's I would argue he's better off.
He seems to be more powerful.
He's like achieving things that we've not even seen before
with the whole like he could just magically connect people across the universe
in a sky call, which apparently kills you.
Like it kills Luke Skywalker to do that on just one end of it.
So not bad.
You can do that without apparently the second thought.
Same with the like the lightning move where he just like flicks his finger.
So I think he's in control of more power than apparently Emperor Palpatine
seem to be like the nuts.
This is why we criticize the sequel trilogy on its world building so much.
This this is like one of those discussions that comes around the power of Snoke,
the the efficacy and the scope of the first order there.
How have they expanded?
How how are they existing?
How are they a thing that was allowed to exist in this world?
No makes no fucking sense.
I've seen several people in the chat telling us to prepare
because we're apparently getting close to something he says.
That's real tismy.
Oh, really?
Just what a gentleman.
Oh, yes.
Then what we've already experienced, I guess.
Oh, man.
All right.
Plus, what the details of how he came to power
would just be a distraction from the scene that we were there to see.
Snoke has even less of a need for a backstory
since he's an offshoot of that character.
I want to be emperor trying to assume the same rule.
We've seen enough people get disfigured in their pursuit of power
that JJ must have figured we were smart enough to figure this out
without having to see it.
Smart enough to.
Oh, weird.
That's because, OK, Anakin disfigured.
Luke disfigured.
It happens to good people, too.
No. OK.
Never mind.
Besides Rags, even if it did, you're smart enough to figure out
how it happened, aren't you?
OK, so let's let's go one by one, shall we?
So one of them was killed, fucking slashed by a wampa.
One of them was delimmed by his friend and left to burn.
One of them was hit by his own lightning.
Like the all three of those are completely fucking different,
but we're supposed to be smart enough to figure out which one is going to be
for each piece that it happens to a future.
Well, who's the Forest Whitaker in a row?
Oh, yeah, he was pretty fucked up.
He had like no legs or something.
Why was it squinty?
Yeah, he must is a bad man.
I mean, we've seen this before.
He's he's a bad man because he got disfigured.
What a retarded tape.
You should be smart enough to know the history you've never heard of.
And then I'm thinking about what about what other good characters
are there that are disfigured?
And I'm like, well, Cap and Halo Reach is missing an arm.
Who is the one of the guys in Gears five that I played?
He's missing a leg.
Like, how many how many of these can you go through?
And then he it's really not a guy that saluted cypher rage.
Without a raise, a brave, brave, denied.
Sit down. Denied.
Oh, it was the commander and the commander guy in Starship Troopers.
He has a robot arm.
Yeah. Well, you know how that happened.
Specifically, you know, he was a good man.
Let's just hear that again.
Has even less of a need for a backstory since he's an offshoot of that character.
I want to be emperor or trying to assume the same rule.
We've seen enough people get disfigured in their pursuit of power that JJ must.
OK, so we don't want to know the history of Snoke because he's disfigured, Dan.
What? Lieutenant, so eventually, Lieutenant Dan.
And I just want to highlight that.
How many people did you meet who said, you know, I really want to know Snoke's history.
You know why it's like because of his face.
It's all fucked up.
That's why I want to know.
Oh, what about like what he did with the Skywalker and Solo families?
You're like, I don't care his face.
That's what I want to do.
So we'll throw a lightsaber at his face.
Oh, Harry Osborn.
That's a good one.
Good one, chat.
Harry Osborn turned turned good after being disfigured.
Yeah, but you knew how that happened.
Someone said.
Raven, his entire body cut off.
Yeah, but you knew he has an eye missing.
You knew how that. Oh, no.
That's an example of where it's like, let's not explain that, shall we?
Oh, also, of course, very good.
Ciao and chat to and chat.
The Elric brothers.
So there's. Yes.
And finding that out was extremely satisfying.
But fuck it, because mystery better.
You seem to be just said Raid Shadow Legends.
I need to take a pee break.
I'll be right back.
The world from Sekiro Zuko.
Let's go around Zuko got a scar.
We should do a Raid Shadow Legends.
I had. Well, we were commissioned for it.
The best part, I were I were a few you.
It's free. No, no, no, no.
Not new person in the chat.
Knowing how Zuko got his scar specifically who did it
is pretty important to his character.
Just saying. This is well, I mean, you don't even need to count.
This point is so stupid.
Like he's trying to say, like, why do we need to know the history of Snoke?
He's scarred. Sure.
It's not like we can't figure out how someone can get scarred.
It's like, what are you?
Who are you fighting against?
Who is this? I got these scars.
My mother was very nice and she fell on me one day.
I thought that's not OK.
She fell on you and she made out of knives.
Yes. You say that like it's ridiculous.
All right, I'm back.
Hello. All we concluded is that it's amusing that he thinks
people want to know Snoke's history because he's scarred.
OK, as even less of a need for a better story.
While I was pissing, I was thinking maybe I should do
an actual review of Raid Shadow Legends.
That'd probably be interesting.
I've heard that Jay is interested in doing such a thing.
You should do it.
Yeah, I think the best part is free.
Oh, it's free. It's free games are the highest quality free.
Oh, you can buy some stuff in it, which is only good features.
An offshoot of that character.
I want to be emperor or trying to assume the same rule.
We've seen enough people get disfigured in their pursuit of power
that JJ must have figured we were smart enough to figure this out
without having to see it again.
I don't like the appeal to you'd be smart
if you didn't want to know Snoke's history.
I find that frustrating, but I'm going to move on because you know what?
He said this is all a joke, right?
He said that if you don't like comedy, you shouldn't be here.
I like comedy.
So I'm not going to get upset by any of this.
I know it's all a joke.
The emperor, someone said Edward Scissor mother.
We were just sharing stories about how if you had a mother
who fell on you and she was made of knives, you could get a scar.
Isn't that right, Rags?
That would make sense.
Um, say if you had a mother was made out of knives.
Yeah, it fell on you.
You could get scars.
Yeah, if my mother was made out of knives and I fell on her.
She fell on you. No, she fell on me.
I mean, I guess if you fell on her, the same thing would happen.
Yeah, I'd probably get some nasty cuts from Knife Mom.
Yeah, there you go.
I'm just I'm glad we got we we managed to agree on that
because that's quite controversial from what I hear.
They must have figured we were smart enough to figure this out
without having to see it again.
Like the emperor, Snoke is only important to us as an extension
of another character, Kylo Ren. No.
No, no, no, he's important because he resurrected the empire.
He's important because he managed to fuck Luke up to the point where he
nearly tried to kill one of his own family members.
He's important. Yes, to Kylo.
Let's make this easy.
If Kylo Ren was not a character that existed at all, Snoke would be
extremely important.
He would be just, if not more important than he is now.
If you remove Kylo from the equation, that doesn't mean Snoke
all of a sudden is completely meaningless or not important.
If anything, the opposite occurs.
This is a ridiculous point.
How did you say this without stopping yourself and saying, you know what?
Backspace, backspace, backspace.
I shouldn't say that. That's clearly stupid.
Backspace, backspace, then you go keep going.
Just keep just hold it down.
Just just hold out for a few until the beginning and then go in.
I don't know. Play a play that rage shadow.
Kylo's story seems to be one of the force balancing itself.
The Jedi didn't really understand how it worked and thought that balance
meant killing all the bad guys.
Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the force?
That's what happens at the end of the sixth episode.
The Sith are destroyed.
Yeah. And it's considered Vader bringing balance, fulfilling the prophecy.
So if anything, the notion of what balance truly means
is a little shifty.
Yeah. There are many people who have many ideas.
Freddie Prinze Jr., for example, believes it means to have equal numbers
in terms of actual numbers or power on the Jedi and Sith sides.
And therefore, yeah, it's hilarious.
What do you think about it?
It's like the force has to generate new Jedi or new Sith, depending
on which side is more powerful at the time, which is just like, OK.
If anything, you I mean,
it would be more reasonable to say that the Jedi are the embodiment
of the force's balance.
They are not they are not pure in either direction.
They are a kind of like balanced in that sense.
Maybe that would be more reasonable to me.
Like the Jedi maintain the balance, the balance isn't about, you know,
numbers or anything.
It's about maybe maybe it's the state of the universe.
Maybe it's the glow like the universe is
for sensitive people's dispositions or their relationship with the force.
It can be used in a lot of ways.
Some make more sense than others.
You know, I just realized I'm full of shit.
I said the the Sith were destroyed.
Palpatine survived, obviously.
So I just saw. Sorry.
He sifts the portion of the death star down onto a planet.
That's the candidate. OK.
He sifted through space Palpatine.
He didn't die.
He was just on the the actual like circular panel that fired the death star laser.
That's where he was.
And he was like, oh, you even went on like you surf some waves.
It was awesome.
Which led to Luke abandoning the four.
Oh, wait, what the hell is happening here?
Wait, wait, wait.
Why is Kylo Ren coming out of Snoke's head?
I don't know.
No, that's fine.
The Jedi didn't really understand how it worked.
He thought that balance meant killing all the bad guys.
Is he not to destroy the Sith and bring balance to the force?
So the prophecy says.
A prophecy that misread.
I'm just closing to make sure this clip doesn't fuck us for copyright.
Could have been.
But a lot of quotes from Lucas imply it to be more of a literal balance.
Also, two sides, good side, evil side.
And they both need to be there in Times Magazine.
There's not a malevolent or benevolent thing.
OK, too much light or dark would be the undoing of life as you understand it.
OK, someone's saying here
that Thor Skywalker in chat are for says Thor Skywalker says
balance is the absence of the dark side.
So maybe the maybe the force in and of itself is, you know, it is what it is.
And the the evil aspect is what corrupts it, perhaps.
Who knows?
I would say said that Thor Skywalker.
Doesn't he a YouTuber?
I remember that. Yeah, I think so.
I believe so. I believe he is.
Um, doesn't he know that Thor
and the Skywalkers are from two different fucking cannons?
You can't have why not?
They both have force lightning.
God damn, it rags.
Your fantasy canon is no more meaningful than my fantasy canon. OK.
You know what? What if?
OK, bear with me. What if?
Because because the Jedi were a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.
What if over time they left their galaxy
and the force slowly but surely changed and they forgot how to make lightsabers
for whatever reason, and they settled in a far off planet
and then they founded Hogwarts.
Sounds like you know, I'm just saying.
Saying how does Gandalf fit into that?
How does Gandalf fit into that?
Oh, he's one of those in betweeners.
It's a parallel universe.
It's one of the he's he's on another he's an infinite.
Oh, my goodness, you you. Oh, my God.
That's foreshadowing for what's to come.
It should be just like two days ish until part one of Ephab
reacting to Infinite Yes is coming out.
I know a lot of people are excited.
It's on its way, and it's really bad.
It's this sort of how do you put it rags?
It's the equivalent of the Avengers assembling for the CW shows.
Yeah, Batwoman.
No, yeah, Batwoman, Supergirl, a bunch of supermen.
I don't even know if they have any TV shows.
Arrow briefly.
Robot man, I don't know.
There's a bunch of people who team up.
I guess I guess if chat doesn't know, we watched the first episodes
of Crisis on Infinite Earth and they're batshit insane.
It's amazing. We we're we love them so much. They.
These people are the entertainment that's the cinema.
Anyway, back to this wonderful video.
Requiring both sides to some extent.
This movie makes that clearer than ever.
The ancient Jedi even kept some sort of dark side
crystal beneath their islander for that purpose balance.
A powerful light, powerful darkness.
The Jedi recruited a man.
You just cited Disney canon to explain how things make more sense
than we think they do from Disney canon.
Interesting.
That doesn't work.
You've you've cheated.
And also here we fucking go with this graph.
I don't know what's going to happen to you.
As of number of light users, which allowed a super powerful sith to pull.
Well, that doesn't make sense.
What? Yoda became like fucking nil and Palpatine is like super.
Is that.
Oh, and maybe he's not going with the Freddie Prince Junior explanation.
My bad.
Purpose balance.
A powerful light, powerful darkness.
The Jedi recruited a massive number of light users, which allowed a super
powerful sith to pull Anakin to the dark side and destroy them.
As the last I died out, the force began to flow through Luke
and he pulled Anakin back to the light, leading to what was balanced about.
OK, you have the Jedi order as a inner galat is a massive galactic force
that that is involved in, you know, the culture and the politics of the galaxy.
There are thousands of them supposedly.
There's a sith to there's three or four.
How many are sith are there like less than a dozen?
There's like Dooku and Palpatine and was.
Well, the thing with Dooku is like, was he a Jedi prior to the second episode
or is he counted as a sith throughout the whole prequel thing?
I think he was counted as a Jedi prior to episode two.
Oh, yeah, because everyone was like they knew him.
Yeah, he what does he say?
He's he's he's a political idealist, not a murderer.
Which was a a naive comment, to say the least.
Yeah, if any, if you expect anybody to be a murderer, it is a political idealist.
Well, a political idealist has the power to literally kill people
at rage with his telekinesis.
He would never kill anyone.
And he's a communist.
Red could have been.
But a lot of quotes from Lucas imply it to be more of a literal balance
requiring both sides to some extent.
This movie makes that clearer than ever.
The ancient Jedi even kept some sort of dark side
crystal beneath their islander for that purpose balance.
Yeah, again, you can't cite this to prove how this makes sense.
Powerful light, powerful darkness.
The Jedi recruited a massive number of light users,
which allowed a super powerful sith to pull Anakin to.
So, OK, so the logic, the logic is we start neutral.
Yoda and and co get loads Jedi.
That pushes them really far up.
This allows Palpatine to rise up.
That's what he says.
If anything, that would be really difficult.
Are you saying it would be easier for Palpatine to rise for the more Jedi there are?
Even though he has to kill all of them to get them out of his way.
Yeah, he has to literally create an army.
To even begin to make that a possibility like Palpatine
is not having an easy time of it.
No, he I think if anything, if you said, hey, Palpatine,
I can I can snap the Jedi out of existence for you.
He'd be like, oh, shit, do it.
Oh, yeah, absolutely. Thanks, man.
Yeah, I just want to say that this this graph is worse than the one I used
in the arrival debate.
It's a great graph. How could you say that?
This is also I'm aware some people like Dooku used to be a Jedi.
I know. I was saying, was he on that scale during like Phantom Menace?
Was he a Jedi? Do we count him as a Jedi?
Or do we count as a Sith throughout all the prequels?
That was my question.
Oh, God, someone someone said, look at this graph.
Someone please Photoshop what's on the screen right now.
It's a bit it's a bit look at this graph.
All right, let's let's hear more of this,
because I feel like we're going to have to stop this several times.
It makes no sense to beneath their islander for that purpose.
A powerful light, powerful darkness.
The Jedi recruited a massive number of light users,
which allowed a super powerful Sith to pull Anakin to the dark side and destroy them.
Doesn't follow.
I don't understand.
That is interesting logic.
The more Jedi you have, the easier it is to convert Jedi to the Sith.
Maybe like explain if I had to try and come up with a rationale for that,
I'd be saying, well, maybe it would be easier to find potential recruits.
That's much more like a numbers game.
But yeah, sure.
But yeah, but then that's like, oh, but oh, oh, is it easier for us?
Is it easier for the rebellion because there's a massive empire?
I don't get how else this would work in another.
If I. What a strange analogy.
This graph is confusing.
Yes, powerful light, powerful darkness.
The Jedi recruited a massive number of light users,
which allowed a super powerful Sith to pull Anakin to the dark side and destroy them.
As the last Jedi died out, the force began to flow through Luke
and he pulled Anakin back to the light, leading to the Sith being destroyed.
But Palpatine never left.
He didn't die.
Yeah. Why did you have Palpatine disappear in that graph?
He was alive. He was.
Yeah, you're taught a Disney cat and he's alive and well, buddy.
He's doing his. What?
This convinced people.
Oh, man, if this convinced you.
Oh, man.
And he pulled Anakin back to the light, leading to the Sith being destroyed or not.
I'm leaving Palpatine out of this until we know what the fuck is going on.
How can you leave him out?
He's like the only figure that's been here since Phantom Menace
all the way up to episode nine.
Yeah.
Can't leave him out on Luke began training a new generation of Jedi
and with Snoke apparently, OK, OK, so yeah, go ahead.
Apparently people in this dude's discord are covering us, covering him.
Oh, I don't give a shit.
Hello. I don't give a shit with their opinions.
Hello, everybody.
I hope you know that your favorite YouTuber kind of sucks.
Yeah, this video is terrible.
Well, I've heard his other videos are good, but this isn't a great first impression.
Yeah, I'm sure he's a great guy.
He just has really bad videos on Last Jedi.
So early before this segment in the graph, you had young Luke
and he just acted like Palpatine didn't exist when he was clearly alive
for all of episode one through six.
Now we're at old Luke, right?
So old Luke is training new Jedi and you have Snoke,
who and I guess Palpatine is alive by extension.
We technically don't have confirmation, even though we kind of do.
I mean, his logic seems to be if ever one side outstretches or understretches,
the other side does the same eventually.
There's some way that seems to be if.
But if anything, that's not like balance.
That's just a pendulum swinging back and forth.
That's not balance. That's the opposite.
That's going from one extreme to the other.
Why it seems like the force is constantly trying to balance.
But if this is how the Jedi understood it, then fucking hell,
they wouldn't want it, would they?
They'd be like, oh, God, we don't want balance.
Well, it's almost like it's pointless.
It's like if you're in the Jedi, especially in the prequels,
you're in the Jedi, you've got your council, you've got your big building.
You have a not a global presence, a galactic presence.
You're keeping the peace.
There's no wars happening.
And this is something that's happened for thousands of years, right?
At what point do you say, you know, I don't know about this weird balance thing.
What we've got and what we're doing now is working pretty darn good,
whatever the balance is or isn't.
So let's just keep maintaining what we're doing now.
So let's hear out some more of this graph being destroyed or not.
I'm leaving Palpatine out of this until we know what the fuck is going on.
Luke began training a new generation of Jedi.
And with Snoke apparently being the only counterbalance,
Ben was pulled to the dark side to even things out.
OK, enough.
You just you just recanting what happens in the plot
and establish that you just make sense this way.
Yeah, you can't you cannot knock out Palpatine and claim this makes sense.
Yeah, I would love to get let's just sit down with someone
who looked at this graph and were convinced.
I was like, no, no, no, explain the graph to me, explain it.
I want you to tell me the reasons why this graph makes any level of sense.
Snoke was way more powerful than Luke, or at least that's the impression
I got considering that Luke died from doing the move that Snoke
apparently did on an afternoon.
So how is it that Snoke is the counterbalance for Luke
that can pull Kylo?
If anything, Kylo should have just started on Snoke's side.
I don't even know how it how is how this logic works.
Who who is a new person supposed to go to if, let's say,
the Sith have more of the graph?
Is it is it the Jedi? Is that how it's supposed to work?
Because he did just conclude, right, that Luke was like Snoke
was a reaction to Luke. Is that what he's trying to say or not?
I'm leaving Palpatine out of this until we know what the fuck is going on.
Luke began training a new generation of Jedi.
See how he's pushing Luke above Snoke like Luke is more.
Why?
Very weird. Why?
Well, with Snoke apparently being the only counterbalance,
Ben was pulled to the. That doesn't that doesn't follow.
So because what he's trying to say is that Kylo was pushed from good to bad
to fill up the bad side because the bad side is falling behind the good side.
But the bad side was more powerful.
So how does this is it based on how much control of the galaxy you have?
Is that how this works?
Not actually about force level. It's.
If you don't establish what it is at the beginning,
then how do you how do you tell is like, well, OK, well,
we have to maintain balance is like, all right.
Well, what is what is the balance then?
What determines whether or not we're balanced?
It's like force accountants.
They're all like, oh, shit, this Snoke guy is like really powerful.
We're going to have to have to do some of this guys.
And also, no, Chad, I haven't gotten my monthly thrust yet.
Still waiting, still waiting.
Well, sweet. It's so dark. You don't have a Twitter.
I sent him a Patreon message and I showed him the picture Bayouin made.
Wait, which one?
The one where he said I'm ready for my monthly thrust.
I don't believe I've seen that one.
Oh, do I want to?
Oh, I guess I don't think.
OK, rags.
I don't I I I somehow don't think that tonaled would respond
particularly well to you sending that to what I'm as big as fan.
Rags, you have to understand.
That's I don't think this may not have worked for total.
I think that might have scared him anyway.
Rags, you you spooked and you scared tonal.
No, he definitely never going to get.
He made a new video.
And you know, I brought him back.
I brought him back.
He may have made a new video, but he still hasn't provided his monthly thrust.
Maybe that was his idea of a monthly thrust.
I was going to say, if anything, full video,
he baited rags with that picture by promising him a monthly thrust.
I can't believe you.
Did you actually send this to total?
Absolutely. I did. I'm ready for my monthly thrust.
Do you have evidence that you said this?
Because I don't know if you're fucking with me or not.
I'm not fucking with you.
If ever there is a time where I'm speaking.
Wolf wants evidence.
Now you can tell. Please.
No, no, this is where this is where the friendship happens.
This is where you got to learn how to I promise to you.
I swear on. Oh, my mom's not dead.
I swear on Abraham Lincoln's grave.
Oh, that I am telling you the truth. I did.
Old Abe is going to be really invested in this.
Yeah, to be to be specific.
I sent it.
Well, I'll get to a date later, but yeah, I yeah.
And what happened after I did, he made a new video.
You could say no to that.
Who could say no to that?
You scared him so shitless.
He actually was like, fuck, I got to make a video before this guy sends more of this.
There's your monthly thrust. Leave me alone. Yeah.
I should be OK with that.
Anyway, this graph.
Look at this graph on.
Luke began training a new generation started the stream and saw that.
With Snoke apparently being the only counterbalance, Ben was pulled to the dark side to even things out.
He destroyed the Jedi, which led to Luke abandoning the force,
leaving no active Jedi on the light side.
This led to Kylo being pulled back to the light.
Why? Why not Snoke?
Why? Why Kylo?
Yeah. Why Kylo? How come Kylo is the pinball now?
Yeah. All right. So what?
OK, let's just dab it back to the light in this movie.
He literally killed hard and like confirmed he's evil and that he did it again in the last.
Yeah, people act as if Kylo is like wishy washy.
But I'm like, no, no, no.
Give me an example of Kylo going to the light side.
Give me one. Give me one example of him going to the light side.
When he was like, I feel bad, I feel bad because I'm getting pulled all over the place where.
And then he's fucking murdered him.
I know, but there's still evidence that he's a wishy washy piece of shit.
And it's like, you know, they're going to say, well, he killed Snoke and it's like, yeah, but five minutes later,
he wanted to take his fucking position.
That doesn't even count.
Fucking hell.
What could be more?
What could be more light side than killing your master and taking his place away?
Is there a particular side that does that a lot?
I can't.
People who think that there's a reasonable conflict that's been displayed here for Kylo
Ren are delusional.
It's almost as though there's a precedent for Sith betraying one another.
No, like.
Oh, no, that's what I do.
Remember when I wonder, I wonder if there was a Jedi master who has red skin and horns
who said this in a very popular video game that was in a trailer from,
I don't know, 12 years ago.
Oh, General Grievous.
Yeah. And the third one.
Yeah. Yeah. So I know I knew it.
His resistance to this led to the light finding an outlet through Rey.
What you that's how that works now.
If someone on the dark side that is overpopulated with the force, by the way,
says, oh, man, I might go to the light side, but I'm totally not going to.
The force goes, OK, fuck, you're going to make a new one.
And if anything, this is super depressing if you're a Jedi,
because you know that you're just going to get fucking kilt and it's going to swing
the other way. I don't like these rules.
The gay rules like rules imply consistency.
And this is just how do I justify what's in the movies using this?
Oh, yeah, this this feels post hoc as hell.
He's just applying the movie's plot to this graph and doing his best
to be like, this totally makes sense, everyone.
Ray's first Sona is a is a mosquito.
No, she'd be why Ray would be.
Why would that be it?
Ray would be like a meek or like a like a like a
I don't know what I call ferret.
You know, do you guys like how the existence of Palpatine
fucks up his whole graph and he's just ignoring it?
Oh, yeah, he even addressed that.
He was like, I don't know what's happening with Palpatine.
Fucking fucking Palpatine, I don't know.
I warned my young apprentice that as he grew stronger,
his equal in the light would rise.
Yes, this is the retarded canon that we're already complaining about.
And now you're using it to justify this canon.
That's not how it works.
It's like it's really dumb that Luke did this in The Last Jedi.
Then you go, yes, but Luke in The Last Jedi is this character.
You're like, that's the problem.
How can Luke even count as being on the other side
if he cut himself off from the force and lived in exile?
Like, how does he even how is he even on the graph at all?
I love that he was like,
Kylo is getting bombed back and forth.
The force is like, hey, hey, hey, hey.
He's like, no, no, stop.
What are you? Does it hurt?
That constant back and forth has defined Kylo Ren's character.
He's right. Inconsistency defines Kylo Ren.
Yeah, I have no idea what he actually values definitively.
I mean, that's kind of the same for Rey.
You know, it's not really the same for Finn.
It's just that it doesn't line up with Finn's history.
Like whatever Finn's values are, it's confusing.
It's almost like the characters in the sequel trilogy aren't very good.
What do you guys think?
I, I, I get that impression and I, I, I.
Just thinking that might be the case.
I'm convinced of it.
He tore the part.
He's like a desperate cultist looking for an escape.
No, he's leading the cult.
He's in charge.
He's the guy in charge.
He's the supreme leader.
And he's recommitted twice.
I don't understand.
How much more does he have to do?
And again, name something good that he's done.
Just one little thing.
Name a good thing.
He saved Rey from Snoke.
It wasn't because he wanted Snoke dead anyway.
Yeah, and only for his own personal.
It's not like he directly fought Rey and we've seen trailers
of him trying to fucking kill her in the new movie.
What are you talking about?
Reylo.
Hashtag.
Mm hmm.
Focus convinced him that the answer is going fully to the dark side
and becoming the next Darth Vader.
Kylo does everything Snoke tells him, and it doesn't work.
He becomes even more conflicted and less powerful.
Bested by a girl who would never have.
Yeah, that's actually a plot hole.
Yeah, like that's that's really crazy
how you'd been training for this basically your entire life.
And she beat you with her lightsaber.
Well, I guess what he just said, though, like he's like,
Kylo does everything correctly and he cannot beat this random girl.
This is proof that the dark side is just not enough for him.
It's like the dark side characterized almost exclusively
by the fast track to power.
And people say, oh, yeah, Kylo was shot by that blaster thingy.
He's like, oh, the pain and hatred makes him stronger
because he's not to mention.
He's not impaired by it at all at any point.
That's what he pointed out.
He's fucking doing his acrobatic shit.
It's like, oh, you shot the gut, though, I think maybe.
I just can't believe how much of that video completely changed my mind
as soon as I saw it.
It's because I was I was like under the impression
this was a really good movie for a while.
And then I saw that video and I was like, oh, no, it's it sucks.
Wrong, that's my a big take.
Bested by a girl who would never held a lightsaber.
You failed.
I always like to interpret it as Ryan Johnson being like,
you fucking movie made no sense.
JJ with that line from Snoke and JJ's like, you bet.
My movie makes sense.
It's hard to believe that JJ is like, well, I'm going to make a movie
that makes even less sense than both of them.
He like repairs the mask.
And some guys like, why repair the mask?
He's like, because it didn't make any sense for me to crash.
It did it didn't make any sense for me to break it.
I was dumb.
The guy's like, well, why don't you just requisition a new one?
And he's like, I like this one.
So they keep making movies back and forth.
They keep fucking having throwaway lines that attack each other.
And then like Ryan makes an alien called JJ.
He's like incompetent and annoying.
I mean, we're close to that.
We just bring in Jar Jar.
We've said it before.
Bring in Jar Jar.
He can save the sequel trilogy.
You can save it.
I haven't killed Rose and Holdo.
Bring Holdo back.
Imagine Holdo, Force Coast.
Can you imagine like all the Palpatine shit is just like fake
and all of those trailers we've seen so far, they don't actually
like Palpatine's not in the movie.
We watched the movie.
It's just Jar Jar.
And he's like, Misa Bumpity gonna kill y'all.
I need a sausage Jar Jar.
I can't do a stupid Jar Jar voice, but, you know,
I would turn the movie into a comedy so quickly.
I might actually unironically like it.
I just like the theory that Snoke was Jar Jar.
I really liked that one.
I was like, do it.
He had like horrible disfigurements because of the fact that he tried
to have surgery to alter his face to look more human.
It would have been great.
I hope that if I get hit with a lightsaber in the face, it's not.
You know, it would make sense since he's got that big scar down
the center of his head.
All we need to do is get Ephat popular enough that we can buy the rights
to Star Wars. Let's do it, guys.
Let's do it.
Every super chat that you send gets us one step closer
to buying the rights to Star Wars.
We have Bob Iger on.
He's like, if you could get.
No, I don't know.
10,000 likes.
Well, all right.
All right. This is possible.
We do it. We do it.
I've done everything I have to.
After some reflection, he realizes that he's being used.
He has the chance to kill his mother and doesn't take it.
When Ray calls him a monster.
And then he seems to be all right with it.
Yeah, he kind of just lets it happen.
He's like, oh, well, that happened.
He's like, it's like he hesitated is he didn't not do it.
He hesitated, if anything.
He's like, well, I guess I'm not going to.
If anything, they did the the yoink from Halo.
They stole his kill.
Yeah, like we don't know if he wouldn't have gone through with it.
If anything, it just seems like he hesitated in his wingmen, blew it up.
And then he was like, OK, then.
Certainly didn't bother him.
I mean, he fucking killed his dad without any issues.
But I want to highlight that all.
I agree with him that Kylo is extremely inconsistent
and you never know what he's thinking.
I haven't seen The Last Jedi since opening night of the movie coming out.
Did he even am I just forgetting it?
But did he even acknowledge Leia after she, quote unquote, died?
No, like does he does he even realize she's not dead?
He makes it. Does he make a face?
I don't even think they show him, do they?
I think they do.
But he doesn't seem to recognize that she's not actually dead at any point.
There's no scene for him to be like, oh, she's actually not dead. OK.
I guess we'll get that in the next movie.
I don't know.
Though he would know, right, because of the force.
I don't know.
The Sith feel the deaths of their loved ones when they die.
I don't know.
The Sith, the Sith love guys, the Sith love.
They love hate.
They hate. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God. I'm sorry.
I need to show you guys this.
This is a.
It's too beautiful.
The suspense didn't mean to press cancel.
I meant to press upload.
Oh, no. OK, there we go.
Get up. Oh, give me a second to show it probably.
You got on a peaceful rhino farm in the boo.
We need you. Star Wars is still alive.
We need something stronger.
We need you.
Shotgun noises. Fine.
Be so do it myself this time.
I love how they even gave him a beer.
He's got writers.
Jar Jar is supposedly still possibly alive,
living off of a pension or whatever being in the Senate.
He's a he's like thanks to the sequel trilogy.
He's downright a fan favorite character.
We need him back. Yeah, man.
Jar Jar's out there.
He is alive somewhere, you know.
I would accept a bounty hunting Jar Jar.
What would be Jar Jar's theme?
Jar Jar's theme.
I guess a copy ocean paradise.
Oh, yeah, that's probably the most suitable.
Most fitting of his character.
Yeah. Anyway, back to the whole so like
Kylo is conflicted, Kylo is still conflicted
because he's conflicted because he's conflicted.
How do you argue that this is about character
when you've got it basically built into the force rules
that it's going to pull you around?
Yeah, so much is like this free will exist.
In Star Wars, the force decides what you're going to decide.
OK. I'm doing everything I have to.
After some reflection, he realizes that he's being used.
He has the chance to kill his mother and doesn't take it.
When Ray calls him a monster, he agrees.
Yes, I know.
He needs to free himself from Snogan.
OK, do you not think that all the others would also say,
yeah, I'm fucking monstrous?
It depends on the definition, I suppose.
Yeah, I don't give a shit.
It's all about power.
Power is what's important.
Yeah. Oh, I love how much people swoon over Kylo.
It just it amuses me.
Like in terms of character writing, when it's also gobbled.
Rags, the Senate was dissolved in a new hope he wouldn't get a pension.
That's fair enough.
Oh, no. If can they make a new one?
He missed out on his pen.
But OK, so the Senate was dissolved.
Wait, I'm like 19 years of pension potentially.
Yeah, that's a save it up.
But then what's the new republic's fault?
He puts in his papers, he gets reestablished pension.
It's possible.
Here's the thing. We're forgetting that Jar Jar is competent.
He probably spent that entire pension on his rhino farm,
on hookers and blow cocaine.
He's living the good life in his underwater city.
I don't know how Naboo is doing these days.
I hope it's doing all where it all began.
I'm sure they'll just tell us the throwaway line it was blown apart.
Yeah, it was one of the five planets that blew up.
Like this, so many people, including myself,
thought that Carson was the one that was blown up.
I thought that was what it was because it looked exactly the same.
Some other planet Ray calls him a monster.
He agrees. Yes, I know he needs to free himself from Snoke
in order for his character to move forward.
And he needs raising coming Snoke to do it every day.
He needs to move forward and become the supreme leader himself.
Move forward.
That's an interesting way to I think he doesn't move like he
if he's moving forward in the sense of in a straight mind trajectory,
he is moving forward.
Yeah, he's moving forward towards being eviler and more power fuller.
Sure. Yeah. In that sense. Yeah.
You sit together, the apprentice is always trying to recruit
another apprentice to join with him to kill the master.
A lot of people interpreted this as a subversion of their expectations,
which has become a meme now.
But if you're paying it.
Yeah, right.
John's a single handedly ruined that writing style. Yeah, he did.
There's loads of times when you try to bring it up and people like, oh,
Ryan, you're like, no, no, no, it's a real thing. No.
Tension to the character.
It's not a subversion.
This should be if you pay attention to the character.
I like these subtle jabs.
If you're smart, you won't ask about Snoke's history.
If you pay attention, you'll understand Kylo like, oh, thanks for that.
This is a great guide for those who are ill informed or fucking
not paying attention.
I love it.
Did this as a subversion of their expectations, which has become a meme now.
But if you're paying attention to the character, it's not a subversion.
This should be the expectation.
He's not turning good.
He's doing exactly what his character needs to.
And he's offering Ray the chance to come along just as Vader did to Luke.
And fans also hated this because they didn't get the okay.
So now we're on the he's not good at all.
He's not becoming good.
Of course, he doesn't become good.
It's like, yeah, on that, I agree.
But doesn't that fuck around with your graph from earlier?
I did.
I think we have to ignore his graph because we have to keep coming back to it
about how much it doesn't make any sense.
We'll just ignore the graph.
Secondly, listen to how he delivers this.
All right. Exactly what his character needs to.
And he's offering Ray the chance to come along just as Vader did
to Luke.
And fans also hated this because they didn't get their fucking
Wikipedia page filled out.
You can't kill him yet.
That's what. Yeah, that's definitely because I use Wikipedia.
I also want to remind you, he was like, this is a this is comedic.
It's not meant to be taken seriously.
It's just a guy sharing his opinion.
Did he not sound bitter as fuck when he said that?
Absolutely, he is.
He sounds like the kind of guy who's fucking tired of people fucking
complaining about Snowgarden getting his fucking Wikipedia page, OK?
And you're like, I'm sorry.
Who is advocating for a whole Wikipedia page?
We just want to know what we need to know.
How the fuck did this happen?
I like that he knows our opinions for us.
Well, yeah, we get we get that a lot when hate to say it.
Classic straw, man.
It's like, let's look at what they're complaining about.
We need to know Snoke's history in order to connect the films together
and for everything to run on and make sense.
So you want a fucking Wikipedia page?
I mean, I suppose it would be a page would happen as a result.
You could probably write what? Yeah.
Yeah, because there'd be information to write it about so.
Oh, yeah. OK, I'm sure there's already a Wikipedia page for this scene anyway.
There is going to be a long Wikipedia page for Snoke already.
It's already there to come along just as Vader did to Luke.
And fans also hated this because they didn't get their fucking
Wikipedia page filled out.
You can't kill him yet. I need him.
The film is already over long and packed.
No, you could kill him.
But we still need to know where he came from.
I'm still I'm surprised he was killed.
I didn't think he'd be that dumb to fall for the lightsaber move
when he's so powerful and able to read minds at will.
Remember, he can just read someone's mind by pointing his hand at them.
Like he pulls everything he needs out of Rey immediately.
While Kylo couldn't even do it, remember, he was locked out.
At least on the second part, he pulled out that it was a droid on Takadana.
But when he got her into the the main place, remember, she read his mind.
Because Rey's that powerful.
Remember, I can't wait to see Darth Uchi's Wikipedia page.
With plot, how would this have helped?
I will kill you with the cruelest stroke.
But first, let me tell you about why is this always what they say?
Why every time this they're like, if people like Ragsmore
and Wolf got what they wanted,
Snoke would arbitrarily start explaining everything in his history during a scene.
I know you guys just want scenes full of exposition dumps, don't they?
They act as though we all just want like anime level exposition.
It's like, no, we can reference a million other movies that have exposition.
That's not the level of my suggestions.
Straw manning. Yeah.
One of my suggestions in, I think, my T.L.J critique was that he sets up in TFA
that he needs to finish the Darkside training with Kylo.
That's a great way to talk to Kylo about the history of the Sith
or how they managed to recover from absolute devastation
while training him while having character moments.
You get all these things done together.
You get a really good dialogue writer.
You can get all this stuff in nice and smoothly.
We talked about this Mandalorian's first episode.
Lots of wheel building done in very casual, natural ways.
You don't have to just randomly start spilling out a scroll's worth of information.
That's not what we want.
If anything, we're very clear about how much we hate that.
I just I'm so tired of the straw man is so old, the rickety just come on.
Summers, I spent on nine or seven growing up.
I always had a fascination with antique clocks.
The ticking at it because it would be so dumb to get information on Snoke.
Yeah. The talking Cynthia was the first to break my heart.
It's funny, someone in chat just said not even Saitama once anime level exposition in One Punch Man
when the protagonist meets up with a guy who's like got a cyborg body.
He starts explaining his history and it's like really drawn out.
And he like shouts at him because it's just too boring.
He needs to speed up or just summarize it in a paragraph or whatever.
I just find it funny because like that's pretty much how everyone feels about this shit.
We don't we don't actually want to read a Wikipedia page in the movie.
OK, it's just clarifying.
I told her that of her body.
You've never had robot pie until you've had gildabe robot pie.
Not yet, child. We haven't even gotten to my quinceanera yet.
Ray spent the previous film obsessed with finding answers to who she is.
Uh, that's just a word to use.
Yeah, curious and doesn't find any
when she arrives at Luke's Island, the important thing for her character.
Oh, no, things happen between.
Oh, yeah, like there's like a movie and a half.
There's like, yeah, there's like a movie that happens between those.
But OK, don't talk about that.
Remember when she has a fight with Kylo and she she goes back over there.
Falcon, they have the location to Luke.
And for some reason, the resistance said her.
Why?
And it's not like a Corvette ship or something.
She was looking for identity with Luke's like, oh, that's oh, well,
why would Leia give a shit?
Why would anyone give a shit?
It's Luke. Go away, random person who wants to find a new father figure
now that your previous one just died,
which, by the way, is just like straight as canon as you can get.
Like it was pulled out of her brain that she sees Han Solo as a father figure.
And also how many itinerant random people would just
would just think that Luke is a hero and everything like that
and would be just dying to meet him from a fan level.
Exactly. And I wouldn't let go.
No. Yeah, I was like, no.
Imagine if it was Leia there.
She would have convinced them to come back.
Yeah, she wouldn't stand for shit.
It would have been great.
Not some random chick.
Yeah. Isn't the answer.
It's breaking her dependence on it.
It's your greatest weakness.
Looking for them everywhere in Han Solo.
Now it's Skywalker in her death.
Yeah, it's very confusing.
She hasn't started the darks.
I didn't even know what it is.
Well, Luke said it, though.
He said, I don't see this level of tism in anyone other than one person
or the before, you know, remember.
That means she's a doctor.
I don't even have an understanding of what I did.
So you're going to have to make this clear
because it's very obvious that I'm just an angel.
Exactly. It's fascinating to me because like the movie does its best to be like,
hey, she's conflicted and she's not just good.
And you're like, how she fell in the dark anus in the island.
But what does she do?
It's like, OK, she touched fingers with Kyla.
That's probably evil. You're like, oh, no.
OK, it offered something you needed.
You didn't even try to stop yourself.
She's forced to accept that there isn't an easy answer that will solve everything
and that she has to determine that was evil here.
I'm sorry. There isn't an easy answer to solve it.
She just wants to know who her parents are.
That's not like it suddenly makes everything OK.
There's still a lot of things going on, like people dying.
And it is it is fascinating that this is considered evil, I guess, or dark side.
Yeah, if it was me and I went through the whole dark anus thing and I fell in
and I was curious about my parents and stuff and then I got pulled out
and Luke chewed me out about the dark side.
I'm like, the what side? What the fuck did I do?
I didn't do anything bad.
Also compare compared to Luke going down in Dagobah and he kills Vader.
Like he just executes him sort of thing in the lightsaber duel.
That says a lot about what his intentions are, what he's willing to do,
and then has him question ethically if that's the right thing to do.
Like this is she put her hand on a thing and it was just like lolldo parents.
OK. Yeah.
What does this tell us about Ray, really, and what she's going to do?
You want it doesn't mean that he didn't.
Oh, sorry, I think I went too far.
Expected bond if they can still gone too far.
I must have clicked something.
Oh, there we go.
And that she has to determine who she is completely by herself.
Kylo Ren is in a similar position.
They've both been failed by the light and dark sides of the force
and have to find a new path.
How has Raven failed?
I was Kylo.
How is Kylo been failed?
Because Luke attacked him.
It is in his sleep or whatever.
This means he was justified in murdering innocent people.
Here's the thing.
If if that's what he's going for here, if Kylo,
if he's saying Kylo was failed by the light side because Luke tried to kill him
and in the same time, this is the exact same film where the force
doesn't belong to the Jedi and the light side didn't fail Kylo.
So which one is it?
You can't that's contradictory to what Luke says in this in this movie.
You can't say that.
That doesn't make any sense.
And how the hell was Ray failed?
Just this pity party like they've both been fails.
Like, no, they haven't shut up.
No, if anything, the force is like the best thing that ever happened to her.
Yeah, at least they get to live easier lives than most people.
They get, you know, sitting and watching TV.
You can't reach the controller.
Guess what? The force force powers.
Imagine when they start giving them like force cooking powers,
we can just you can just flick your finger and boom.
Hot pizza.
Oh, man, if I could just.
No, I don't need to attempt that kind of power.
We would be we would get ourselves in trouble.
That might not stop this wolf would make an end of days.
And in that way, have an unexpected bond if they can resolve their differences.
This could finally bond comes from nowhere.
It's part of my huge issue with her.
She has like a big problem with him for having killed the person
that she has a father figure connection to.
And then like two scenes later, she's like, oh, Luke was a dick to you.
Wow, we share so much.
Yeah, if anything, no, it's already
that's already built on the fact that she has no reason
to see Han Solo as a father figure anyway.
But if you have it,
there's no this isn't how normal people are.
If you killed Han Solo in front of me like you're fucking dead.
All right. I'm not going to be your friend.
We're mortal enemies.
I don't give a shit about your sob story.
You're a psychopathic murderer.
We're not friends.
We're not going to be friends.
I want to highlight, by the way, this incredibly romantic scene
that gave Major Lee big bonus.
Oh, no, no, big boner.
This was it, man. This was it for us
and had to find a new path forward and in that way have an unexpected bond.
If they can resolve their differences,
this could finally lead to real balance in the force.
If only people like to say that Ryan Johnson could resolve their difference.
If they if they were to reconcile, but remain Jedi and Sith,
then the force balances out.
Is that what he's saying?
But the Sith person would go around and keep doing evil stuff.
Yeah, this is like an empire and blow up the key.
No, it's it would be a bad thing to just be like, OK,
I guess we're just going to allow that.
It's like, no, you have a moral imperative to stop the Sith.
He would be like, I'm going to be a Sith, but I'm not going to hurt anyone.
OK. And Ray's like, I'm going to be a Jedi, but I'm not going to protect anyone.
Balance. I guess.
I don't understand how any of this works.
I don't either.
J.J. Abrams set up, but it's supposed to be a guide to the Last Jedi.
You have cheated me, sir.
Just because you didn't get the answer you want,
it doesn't mean that he didn't use those elements.
Which answer did I want?
Tell me.
Because is he aware that Palpatine is supposed to be her
grandfather in the new film?
Doesn't that fuck everything up on this portion?
Is that getting what we want?
Somebody wanted that, I suppose.
Um, I just wanted more information because I didn't understand how it worked.
J.J. Abrams set up, but just because you didn't get the answer you wanted
doesn't mean that he didn't use those elements.
Yeah, instead of going for fanservice and making him Obi-Wan's granddaughter,
he took the threads from the Force Awakens and used them to challenge
the characters as much as possible and tell a far more interesting story.
Oh, this is him challenging the character possible.
That is that is interesting.
It's much more interesting. OK.
Oh, OK. Yeah, this is fucking fascinating.
It's really fascinating to just have two completely blank slates
essentially just wibbling and wobbling.
We're dealing with like the shittiest characters across the entire saga.
And he's like, it's the most interesting thing.
Look what I've done.
No, it's like, oh, my God, this is so pathetic.
And the one challenge most of all was.
Oh, no, here we go.
You ready for this ride?
It's going to be great.
Before even getting into Luke's character,
Ryan Johnson did not decide to make him a broken hermit.
Neither did J.J. Abrams.
George Lucas did a fuck off.
Why what what happened?
So what happened to Cannon?
So already we've gone on just this complete
just total we've split off to like, oh, yeah, well, it was George Lucas.
Yeah, George Lucas didn't do it.
He sold the rights off to it.
We already had this long, stupid discussion about Cannon.
Why are we even going down this road?
It doesn't matter who decided it.
It's fucking dumb.
It doesn't just because Lucas says it doesn't mean it's a great idea.
I also love that we've had all these different things come out
about how Lucas was ignored when they made the sequel trilogy,
how he was upset by this and how Bob Iger said like he was definitely not happy
with how the direction they went.
I guarantee he's probably going to cite something from his original plans.
And I guarantee you he's just going to be vague.
The idea will be to just try and make them light up as much as possible
without going anywhere near the specifics.
It's all George's fault.
Who did who said this before?
Wasn't there someone else who blamed George rather than JJ or Ryan?
I'm pretty sure we covered someone.
I know. Yeah, I could.
I could.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
All the rages in chat.
But it was like, it's this is all George Lucas's fault,
not the like directors of the film and stuff or the writers now, the writers.
Oh.
Um.
I can't remember.
I can't remember.
Story treatments apparently had Luke hermited away at the original Jedi Temple
with a female student seeking him out and forcing him to overcome his depression.
Boy, that sounds an awful lot like the last.
Well, that doesn't make it any less shit.
What would this achieve if it were true anyway?
Yeah, we just said, OK, then what point has been made?
It's not like George Lucas has ever made anything related to Star Wars
the fans didn't enjoy.
Oh, yeah, he's just the fucking paragon of wise decision made.
Oh, God, is that a word?
But he's not a bad ideas can come from everywhere.
Especially George Lucas.
Jedi Lucas even approved concept art for the setting during the transition to Disney and.
It's often argued that Luke never should have ended up in this position
because he was always hopeful and upbeat, but that's only one side of his character.
Just isn't fair.
Oh, bigs is right.
I'm never going to get out of here if there's a price.
If only he grew from that.
If only he grew from this point.
I like this scene from the end of the O.T.
If this this wasn't.
Oh, who've just said they blame George R.R.
Martin for season eight of Game of Thrones.
Oh, that was it.
Yeah, that was it.
That was it.
Good times.
So this was also it's like if someone completely reverses their arc
and we have no context for it, you can't use the defense of oh, yeah.
Well, but when we first met them, when before they had learned
and grown from everything, see, OK, you do hear the argument
every once in a while that Luke is a little bit whiny and a new hope.
And it's like, yes, because he's still growing up.
Yeah. Universe, you're on the planet that is farthest from where are you going?
It's like I'm going nowhere.
Can't believe he's gone.
Oh, imagine being sorrowful that someone you cared about died.
Well, what was that supporting?
Yeah. What does that mean?
OK, it's weird that you would think that that would lead him down a dark path.
OK. Here, if it'd be more fucked up and he didn't show anything bad about it.
Going here, we're wasting our time.
The boy has no patience.
We'll never get it out now.
Always with you, it cannot be done.
I can't. You want the impossible.
I can't do it. You can't go on alone.
I can't go on alone.
How is sorry?
How is him saying I can't go on alone?
Used as evidence for him becoming a hermit alone stranded on a planet.
I like that he's played the clip of him saying I've endangered the mission by coming.
It's like, yes, he did.
Vader sensed him on the ship, which confirmed it was definitely not.
I remember the guy says
the codes checked out, I was about to let them go.
Do you want me to not do that?
The Vader's like, no, because he wants to use it as a trap.
So, like, yes, Luke did fuck it up by coming on there.
Like, I don't understand. What is this supporting?
You're losing me.
Shouldn't have come.
I have no memory of my mother.
I never knew.
Well, what is that supposed to be?
What are these quotes supposed to be?
All in favor? Yeah.
I don't understand anymore.
Then my father is truly dead.
Soon I'll be dead.
And you with me.
He was certain that Vader was still a good guy.
There is still good in him.
There is good in him. I felt it.
It nearly killed him in a fit of hateful rage.
Luke isn't always who we want him to be, and that's why he works as a protagonist.
Some fans wanted his challenges to be over.
They wanted, if you can believe it, fan service.
Fan service that makes sense.
It's fan service for a character to behave as we understand them.
I've heard that argument many times, too.
I guess, yeah, if characters behave in a satisfying way,
but in a way that makes total and complete sense,
I fail to see what the problem is.
And a lot of this, in fairness, this argument works on a lot of people,
but the context is always forgotten.
Why did Luke attack Vader like he did?
Was it because Vader was sleeping in a bed and he hadn't done anything previously?
Right. I don't. Hmm.
I don't I don't think that was the case.
Was it that Vader was already a mass metering like psycho in the universe
and then he threatened to kill his sister after saying that
if he can't get Luke to essentially be corrupted, that's who he'd go after next?
I can't remember.
Was he threatening people Luke loved or was he sleeping in bed?
I thought I mean, there's no real point in trying to establish which one it was
because those two situations are essentially the same thing.
Luke igniting his lightsaber over someone
who's, as far as we know, been a student that's been well behaved.
Yeah, because because he sensed a bad dream, I like I can't believe people still cite.
Hey, he attacked Darth Vader.
He fucking tried to kill Darth Vader.
So it's OK that he does this same thing.
I just yeah, don't forget this shit.
When people make this argument, they just hope that you forget this.
That isn't it's insane like this is as a fan service
to the highest posting a picture with Han and Luke are in the same scene is now fan service.
Wouldn't you expect that to be?
It would have been nice to have seen them because they're friends
and they've got a lot of history.
And that's why we want to see them get out.
This is a crazy idea.
This isn't the same as having Predator and Batman hang out.
OK, like we just go just make that happen.
No, we feel something when we see these characters together.
We're like, oh, my God.
The fucking history.
I hate to bring in Buffy all the time, but we'll be back, right?
Yeah, remember, remember, I had to go for you, Captain.
Why do you not see the end of the last episode of Buffy where they all
just stand next to each other?
They don't need to say anything.
And it's super meaningful.
Isn't it because it's just fanservice?
It's it could be a fan service scene, sure.
But the reason why it's meaningful is because we have seven seasons
to back that up.
That one scene, it makes the whole show worth watching.
I mean, there's a million reasons why that show is worth watching.
But that one kind of solidified why I love it so much.
He pulled out the the classic Luke tried to kill Vader.
Therefore, Luke is flawed.
Yeah, I heard. Yeah, I was still listening to it.
It's just wonderful.
It's the stuff we've heard before.
I don't know why this would have changed anyone's minds.
We've addressed this one.
Like what? I want to say like five times on you for this point.
Tag in this. It's ridiculous.
Some fans wanted his challenges to be over.
They wanted if you can believe it fans.
Here's a challenge.
What about if Luke was this monolithic trainer
and he was going to try and lead the Jedi to a position
where they were just like overseers and to try to keep a peace?
And then Leia asks him to use them to start destroying
any remaining Empire settlements.
And Han like exactly Han leaves Leia
because of the fact that she's become like too strong willed
in that sort of thing.
And it's all enforced by the fact that she lost everyone.
Yeah, Alderaan. Yeah.
She lost Alderaan.
So she knows the pain that comes with that.
Something that very, very few people could ever know.
And so she carries that with her and uses that as the justification for it.
Yeah, we need to do these things because we can't afford another Alderaan.
It can't happen no matter what.
I don't know that if you can, you find a fan
who wanted Luke to come back and face zero challenge.
I don't always talk about it, man.
Yeah, we always talk about how everybody has every take.
But I don't know if you can find that person very easily.
Everybody that we cover who defends the last Jedi,
like they have to rely on these stupid straw men.
Kick a guard.
Service to see the characters exactly as we saw them before,
doing what we saw before.
Just we just put it.
Why wouldn't they want to hang out with each other?
They fucking friends.
But no, we find out that because of Luke, Han and Leia lost their son.
And it wouldn't matter anyway,
because those two separated like universes apart
because of a horrible marriage they had.
We didn't get to see any of this.
We just told this is what happened.
And this is why they won't see each other now.
It was like, oh.
Got to tell you, like, like the biggest heartstring pull probably in
TLJ, I think we've talked about this before,
was either Luke being in the same fucking room as R2D2 or Leia.
Just that alone.
It was like, oh, my God, it's a droplet of water in the desert.
Seeing these characters that are supposed to be of such great connection,
actually having a chance to show that they still care about each other.
It's the only thing that in The Last Jedi,
I feel like the only thing that Luke does that shows
he gives a shit about his sister is giving her
his ex-girlfriend's necklace, his wife,
his husband's ex-girlfriend's necklace.
That's the only thing Luke seems to do that shows he gives a shit
about like his friends.
I feel like that would be counterintuitive,
if anything, that shows that Luke doesn't really give much of a shit.
I want giving his sister like Han really cared about.
Well, if you remember, even Major Lee even Major Lee conceded that.
He was like, oh, well, yeah, that's kind of.
And you have this vote.
I want someone to make that video as they go.
Luke gave the ex-girlfriend of Han Solo's dice to Leia
because he is flawed and he didn't understand.
He tried to attack Vader.
He's flawed. OK.
It makes sense.
No one ever told him the context of the dice.
She explains it to him and he goes, oh, shit, sorry.
Even if he didn't have the context of the dice,
why would he give them to her?
Well, people say it's a memento of Han.
That's all they say. But she leaves it on the floor anyway.
Yeah, because it's like he's a dice.
Oh, this is. Oh, this is a cursed gift.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
As Luke's walking away, she's just giving him the finger the whole time.
She's just shaking his head like two.
Kyla walks in and picks him up, doesn't he?
Like in the film, I wonder if he's like,
why is my dad's ex-girlfriend's dice on the floor?
Like, what the fuck?
I guess this is this is the dice.
This is why they broke up in the first place.
One day, it was like she was cleaning out his, you know,
eyes covered or something.
It was like, Han, what's this?
And he's like, oh, shit.
I used them to to win the with the Millennium Falcon.
And she believes it.
And then she asked Lando about it.
He's like, oh, they used to belong to his ex-girlfriend.
Oh, shit, man.
If you could see the way that Han looked at her for whatever reason,
it was something else.
I'm choosing to believe in my own head.
Can and that is legitimately the reason why they broke up.
And the thing is, it's not unreasonable.
Like that could actually be why.
Because it's like, why, Han, why did you keep these forever?
I just miss Kira.
Oh, my God.
And then I'd be like, why?
Just, you know, older.
That didn't exactly work out for Indiana Jones.
Oh, it was bad.
And he had a chance there for it can't work.
Yeah, the problem with Indiana Jones was because he was older.
Yeah, that's that's exactly why that movie was terrible.
Yeah, the Marion was there.
She was older.
That's why they just sucked.
Everyone made videos about how they were old.
Old is bad.
What the hell?
Someone says here that Wolf Rags and Muller on a stream together.
That's just fan service for the Efap fans.
Yeah, you don't make any sense that we're together.
It should have been.
We should all be acting out of characters.
That's the way to do it.
That's what I've learned.
We saw them before doing what we saw before.
Just, you know, older.
That didn't exactly work out for Indiana Jones.
Reunions are inherently disappointing, aren't they?
I mean, your old TV show thing.
Oh, boy, they're coming back after 20 years.
You really want to cite Mark Hamill on this.
You want to know what else he's said about TLJ?
He going to cite that, too.
Yeah, I didn't think so.
He won't cite anything.
Also, he still hasn't talked about Kanto Bight halfway through with Kanto Bight.
Justify Kanto Bight.
I would kind of like him like for him to talk about The Last Jedi, kind of.
Well, he's bouncing between.
He did Kylo's character.
Oh, yeah, but it's another thing.
He did the Force.
He's kind of doing Luke right now.
He's there's a couple of things.
It's a guide to The Last Jedi rag.
It's not it's not like The Last Jedi analyzed.
It's a guide.
I don't feel like I'm being guided anywhere except into being wrong.
I'm guided into oblivion.
Oh, no.
And it goes against the mythology the series is based on.
And what all the myths have to deal with is transformation of consciousness.
Because if Luke isn't a coward, he's not transformed in any way, shape or form.
He's not challenged in any way, shape or form.
He would just be.
Yep.
That's another straw man we constantly deal with.
Everybody wants Luke to be super powerful.
They wanted to teleport into create and destroy all the 8080s.
They wanted to just be a monolithic superhero that fades into the air
after he saved everyone's lives.
Like, no, we don't want him to be an action hero.
If he knew thing, he becomes more Yoda like more like, you know,
and I wanted to deal with like complicated philosophical questions
about the position of the good guys in the galaxy.
This is so easy to make that tough.
If anything, he's the one offering wisdom and guidance,
not having some young random chick teach him a lesson.
Oh, don't remind me that you're thinking in this way
and you have now to think in that way.
And if you look at at the beginning of the hero's journey, like with King Arthur,
oh, it's like it's like a tear above.
And now if we think about Karl Marx.
All right.
So Arthur's character does not begin with him pulling the sword from the stone.
If you say that, then you don't know the story.
It's Ryan Johnson.
So, of course, like that's where it begins.
So Chad, I was trying to tell him all the other day
how Ryan Johnson has an extremely punchable looking face.
And I know that there's an actual scientific term for this,
but I can't remember it.
So someone in the chat tell me what the scientific term is for me
wanting to punch Ryan Johnson in the face.
All right. I'm excited now.
Is it solved?
No, I'm pretty sure that's just the tism version of subversion.
All right. Any second now, Dothucci, is that?
No, no, I know that.
I know that there's a scientific term for someone who has a punchable face.
I've read it somewhere.
Why am I asking the chat?
I can just Google it. What the fuck?
I mean, I was going to suggest that, but I thought maybe we're not going to Google
anything. Oh, Google's.
She can't just Google things.
Word for punchable face.
The Tim is the last Jedi.
Oh, my God. How do you pronounce that?
Post it. Oh, OK.
So it's a German word.
And it means a face that face that should be slapped.
Should be like morally slapped.
Yeah. So I'm going to try my best to sound this out.
Back for the thief in Geist.
I've used you faced. They go. OK.
The sword from the stone.
He's a sendon. And if it then goes past that and deals with the hero's life
as they get into middle age and beyond, as it gets into darker places,
there's a reason for that.
It's because myths are not made to sell action figures.
That is just fucking wrong.
Well, it depends on why you make myth.
You can absolutely make a myth that's designed to sell shit.
Isn't that what Star Wars is?
Technically, you could actually argue that
because George Lucas would definitely disagree
that you can't make a myth to sell action figures.
And also the idea that like moving in Star Wars
and you're actually trying to say this, Ryan, I like that he's like,
it has to go dark.
It's like, yeah, because when you get older, man, you know, fuck.
You think what? Why?
There are no old people who like just OK, like they didn't make it.
They all just went dark.
OK, so someone actually pronounced it back.
Faith, again, you ate shicked back.
Faith, she checked back.
Faith, she checked the shot.
That's what someone else said.
But I think we should.
We need to make a little metal would do it.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
If metal can maybe do that and like scream it in a really angry German way,
then it'll make sense.
Yes, we will have it translated.
It's because like the idea is in the chat.
Rob, this is going to make a myth to sell action figures.
And then you remember that like Scientology exists.
He's like, OK, sure, Ryan, you definitely can't.
Myth is going to be my last time on Efap.
I want you to just send him a super chat saying something racist
just to entertain me to sell action figures.
Myths are made to reflect the most difficult
transitions we go through in life.
Maybe the biggest hand.
Why does why does everybody who's old have to go through dark transitions?
Since when was that a rule?
Find this fascinating thing, they've settled into something
and they're hard to budge.
Why is it? Does everyone go on the hero's journey?
Is that is that kind of the argument here as well?
Like, why can't we have loads of different kinds of stories?
Did Obi-Wan go on a dark journey once he got old?
The strength of the serial format is seeing how history unfolds
and how the characters evolve into different roles over time.
It's not disrespectful to a character to deny them a happy ending.
It's disrespect.
It's not about a happy ending,
but him behaving as he was slash is until he's faced
with horrible circumstances that changes ideals
or at least alter his approach to different scenarios.
You can't just have it be that it's changed.
And it's like, whoa, he's three years older, man.
What do you mean?
You saw the flashback, didn't you?
All makes sense.
It's helpful to parade them around for nostalgia's sake
without moving them forward.
As if Tilden didn't do that.
I put I put the word into Google Translate
and it says a faced in need of a fist.
Oh, oh.
I'm all right.
Like fiefen gesicht.
Yeah, like fiefen gesicht.
Yeah. OK.
Back fiefen gesicht.
He just rolls right off the top.
Which one of us which one of us can do a really angry German accent?
Let's not find out.
Oh, they already think we're Nazis, Wolf.
Let's not give them ammo.
Oh, you know, I am German, though.
Well, my family's German.
I did a shocked breathe in while Braggs belched.
If we were right next to each other as our portraits imply,
that could have been bad.
I wouldn't have burped on anyone's face. Oh.
Anyway, he just figures it out.
Maybe the biggest strength of the serial format is seeing how history unfolds
and how the characters evolve into different roles over time.
It's not disrespectful to a character to deny them a happy ending.
It's disrespectful to parade them around for nostalgia's sake
without moving them forward.
Um, why?
So C3PO R2-D2 and the bar guys in Rogue One
appear for a collective of the four characters for, I want to say, about 20 seconds.
Parade them around without having them grow.
It's like, what growth are they supposed to experience in 20 seconds?
They've got this epic journey.
And tell me what moving forward means in this context.
You mean like changing into something completely different?
Like, has has this guy ever been around old people before?
That's not generally what they're known for.
You know, they're completely different from how they were 30 years prior.
It's usually how it works. You can grow and learn and change.
Yeah, sure. Obviously.
That doesn't mean becoming a completely different person
contrary to everything that you've shown and you've done before.
Those aren't the same thing.
We don't we don't have a problem with Luke undergoing some kind of change,
obviously, between episode three or sorry, episode six and seven and eight.
There would be a change.
A lot of time passes by.
But becoming a completely different person
is not what we're looking for.
And if you're going to do that, you really have to adjust.
You are going to really justify that.
He's implied that it's what we got, or it's disrespectful
and that he's just going to have a happy ending and he's going to be super powerful.
It's like, why why are these are two options?
I don't understand.
And yeah, just referencing Rogue One like that makes no sense at all.
These characters were barely in the film.
Part of the reason the characters never had that happy.
Why the fuck would Leia go on a significant change
several minutes before the events of A New Hope?
You don't like that makes no sense at all.
Union is that Harrison Ford didn't want to be an empty cameo.
Harrison is always said, oh, well, we got one.
Well, they did worse than that.
They made him shit.
They not only.
Yeah, they just completely reversed everything that he had become.
And he was. Oh, sorry.
Sorry, poor, poor Harrison.
Hey, man, he went back to what he do, smuggling incompetently.
And now he makes movies where he plays around with CGI dogs.
Hey, man, that's that's an auto right there.
What he was doing with Star Wars was just lame.
Knew that Han needed to have clear utility.
In this case, there was a clear utility.
Hans Death in the Force Awakens was totally in the service of that film's plot.
It wasn't about Han.
It was about the new characters.
Oh, I hate this. So far of our issue is that all of the classic
characters are killed in order for the new ones to do stuff.
I'm sorry, but it looks like Kylo's wearing a dress and it does.
He looks like, you know, with just give me just a second here.
Let me take that. Let me copy it.
Let me slap that on paint.
I it looks like he's just like defiantly standing up against his dad saying,
I'm trans, dad.
Use my correct pronouns.
Why did Snag Prophet say mauler?
He's literally a smuggler in TFA again.
That's what I said.
Yeah, well, I said he's an incompetent smuggler.
My point is that they made him go back to what he knew, but also be bad at it.
To the point where they have a character say that there's no one in the universe
left for him to swindle or galaxy, sorry, meaning that he's fucked up
with so many people that he can't even operate anymore.
The Han, we knew everyone.
Sith commit more than 50 percent of force chokes,
despite being only 13 percent of force users.
I thought that was from raw for a second, but weirdly enough,
it wasn't. No, I know.
And just a simple little Photoshop.
He has become a father, Ben.
What's the little white square?
That's the collar.
The white square. Yeah.
Yeah. Have you never seen a priest before?
Well, I don't remember seeing a just white square.
All right. Let me just.
I got to understand the necklace with the cross on it with a 2011 vision.
But if you never you don't know
the the whole white collar thing that priest have.
Well, I guess it's called a dog collar or something.
I can't. Maybe if I saw that. Oh, OK, I see. Yeah.
OK. Yeah, I think it just looked weird with the the Photoshop part.
You remember a political call in 2011.
Remember that the one where they fought like CGI vampires. Yeah.
Yeah, I remember that.
The critics gave it 15 percent.
I don't remember if it was good or not.
I can't remember either.
Only 46 percent of people liked it, but it had vision in it.
Instinct tells me it wasn't good.
Well, I haven't watched it yet.
I'm Tran's dyad, a trans dyad.
Oh, my goodness.
I just realized, by the way, with three and a half.
Well, nearly four hours in and we're only this far as the video.
In true fashion.
Where on me, it's like every time he says something is like that's either
someone called him Father Ren, Father Ren.
Clear utility.
In this case, there was such clear utility.
Hans death in The Force Awakens was totally in the service of that film's plot.
Han was killed in order to have another character do something else
because Han doesn't matter.
We took away everything that made Han Han.
So some fucking emo kid could stab him and throw him off a cliff like, OK.
Yeah. Like, all right.
Thanks out, Han.
It was about the new characters.
30 years ago, no one would have predicted that his story would end this way
because these elements weren't even on the table.
But how could anyone predict this when this?
Of course no one could predict this is a bizarre story
that happened 30 years later where his son killed him.
You're like, I did.
Someone might have.
I don't know. But there's no reason to.
Why would you even say that?
I didn't see this coming until this game started.
And he went up on the bridge and I was like, oh, he's going to most people.
Yeah, there's plays dead.
No one would have predicted that his story would end this way
because these elements weren't even on the table back then.
People even pointed out that someone pointed out that Kylo Ren's weapon
is a giant red cross to.
Oh, yeah, we've had the Baptiste joke before, right, Rags?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He won't fix it.
Even when Han was introduced in The Force Awakens, he would never have seen it coming.
What do you mean?
What does this mean? What do you mean?
Huh?
He said even when Han is introduced, you never would have seen
the scene with him and Kylo coming like, OK.
What is your point? All right.
Is he advocating because like, oh, look, it seems like fanservice,
but it turns out it's not. He gets killed.
OK, sure.
What just happened?
What the fuck was that?
Yeah, I don't know what that was.
Is that a joke?
Oh, it was the joke that he walks in and then like a pipe bursts and kills him
and then everyone's upset.
Something Rian Johnson would unironically.
Yeah, yeah.
On the other hand, has an ending that not only serves this story,
but his character as a whole.
Not quite, but go on.
After beginning a new Jedi temple, he began to lose Ben to the dark side.
How? You know, he didn't.
You just say that he had a bad dream once and it was chop chop.
I thought I thought the force failed Ben.
Like losing Ben to the what do you mean?
We don't know anything about this.
Snoke did it.
Based on what Leia says, there's too much.
That's why I wanted him to train with Luke.
Luke must have known the danger from the beginning and would have been.
Yeah, that didn't work.
Apparently, because Luke is a psychopath.
Like, why would you?
I love the idea that Leia is like, you need to train with Luke in order to be a good man.
And then on the first night, Luke tries to kill him.
He's like, can we get a different dude for this?
Been trying everything he could to prevent it up until that point.
What do you mean? How do you know that?
And it was beyond what I ever imagined.
With all else failed.
Oh, he just established that Luke tried everything.
Anybody got a reference for that?
Pull in a full silence.
How did how did how did how did Luke fail Kylo?
No, he said he just says that Luke tried every I'll just play it again.
Who's been to the dark side based on what Leia says?
There's too much Vader.
That's why I wanted him to train with Luke.
Luke must have known the danger from the beginning and would have been trying everything he could to prevent it up until that point.
How does it sound?
It seems like all we got was Luke sensed he had a bad dream and tried to murder him.
Where did he get this from?
So I tried everything.
It's like, what do you mean?
Where did where is he pulling these from?
What scene or line?
And he's playing a line from Luke saying it was worse than I could have imagined.
It's like, that's not following on from what you've just said as a as a truth.
You've gotten this from nowhere.
It was worse than later, worse than Palpatine.
I don't understand how any of it works.
Luke is faced with the choice of killing him to prevent history from repeating.
And this is where I think the film lost people forever.
Yes.
And all of the other potential options in addition to that.
He's like, hey, I know, I know.
Look, I've been kind of sensing some stuff with you.
You want to talk about it?
Do you want to have a back and forth?
Do you want to chat?
Like, you're not the only one this happens to.
It's OK. You know, we're here for you.
We're here to support you.
It's like, I guess that was just fucking off the table.
Couldn't have been done.
No, he tried that already, right?
He tried it already.
He tried everything. This was the last result.
Oh, OK. Yeah. Rip.
People say this scene destroys Luke's character because he was always trying
to save his friends, but that's exactly what this moment is about.
I'd like to point out that Chad has said that Kylo Ren fought off a black man
with a burning cross, which is not untrue.
So, guys, don't you get it, right?
So you know how Luke likes to save his friends?
Well, Kylo is going to kill him.
And that's what he saw in his brain.
And so him attacking Kylo is him defending his friends.
Gotcha.
What are you going to do now?
Yeah. Oh, wow.
Oh, boy, that's interesting.
That is an interesting interpretation.
He would bring destruction and pain and death at the end.
Oh, fuck, do you know that you looked at his head and just decided?
Didn't Yoda teach Luke that the future is like always changing?
It's always a potential.
You don't actually know what's going to happen.
I guess you just decided that killing Kylo was the decision to make.
Like, man, like I would have I don't know.
I feel like there would have been a lot of stuff I did up to, you know,
killing my best friend's son in his sleep.
Wouldn't have started off with that one.
Can you get it, though, Rags?
He made a mistake by not killing him because Kylo then killed all of his students.
Oh, my God. Yeah, yeah.
Everything I love because of what he will become.
Had he gone through with it, he could have saved his Jedi and everyone else.
Kylo ran killed.
But Luke didn't go through with it because it's not in his character.
It's Luke doing this that eventually causes all that stuff to happen anyway,
because this is what turned Kylo.
Didn't I keep coming back to that statement you made earlier?
Didn't you say that Kylo was failed like?
It's not like as if it's not his fault.
Like Luke failed Kylo.
Isn't that how Luke even phrased it?
And Luke certainly doesn't seem remorseful in any way.
If if it is true that Luke failed Kylo,
then he sure doesn't seem to give a fuck
when he actually taught when his hologram talks to Kylo.
Yeah. And if you're going to. That's the thing.
If you're going to argue that, like, you see Luke's main drive,
it was protecting his friends and his choice to spare his family in order to
not save his friends.
Like, why would he then exile himself?
Wouldn't he get super involved?
He'd be like, oh, shit, Kylo is pissed at me now,
and he's actually going to go kill people.
I got to do something instead of being like, I got to run away.
Fuck.
Totally in line.
It passed like a fleeting shadow, and I was left with shame.
Once again, he falters before ultimately doing the right thing.
Using that as he's doing the right thing, he fucks off.
Like, sparing Kylo is the right thing.
I thought he just said he wasn't the right thing.
Because everybody dies.
I'm confused by what my wires across help.
I didn't think Kylo could do this on his own.
Like, you'd think that Luke and everybody else would stop this one student.
But I guess not.
He was super powerful.
Remember, he's the counterbalance to Luke, even though Snoke exists and Palpatine exists.
That's why he's powerful. It makes sense.
Oh, man, if only some force ghosts could help with the lightning powers,
just zap Kylo, save a whole bunch of lives.
I like it.
You can't. There's too much having a cake and eating it in this whole thing.
Like, you've got to pick one through line.
Luke is consistent because he's trying to defend his friends.
And that's why he chose to potentially kill Kylo.
But he fucked up and didn't go through with it all.
Luke was spooked by Kylo's crazy mind and was going to kill him,
but then realized that he wouldn't do it because he's family.
And that would be bad. And so doesn't, which was the good thing to do.
Was it a mistake or not to not kill Kylo?
Because I mean, it sounds like it sounds like at this point,
maybe it is. It was a mistake to not go through with it.
All terrible. It's all terrible. And it doesn't make sense.
Losing his students finally awakens him to the truth that the Jedi were failures.
Did you strip away the myth and look at their deeds?
The legacy of the Jedi is failure at the height of their powers.
Yeah, let's. I hate this argument so much.
Oh, yeah. Well, we remember that bad thing happened once.
Yeah, there was the thousands of years of peace.
And then there was the bad thing that happened at the end,
which they tried to stop. Let's which they tried to stop.
There was a war.
They fought a whole war. The Clone Wars happened.
The Jedi fought literally deceived.
And then I like these like just controlling everything.
His own students being murdered is like an example of the failure of the Jedi
as opposed to the Sith that killed them all.
The Jedi were failures. That's some bullshit right there.
Imagine being a student, like a loving Jedi student
who's really interested in helping the world.
You get cut down by fucking Darth Kylo over there.
And then Luke is like, God, the Jedi suck.
Like, wow, thanks, dad.
Once again, he falters before ultimately doing the right thing.
Losing his students finally awakens him to the truth
that the Jedi were failures.
I seriously have a problem with that.
His students dying awakens him to the truth that the Jedi have failures.
Oh, that doesn't sit right at all.
Like, man.
Oh, it's like, that's wow.
What a line of reasoning.
As Silver just said, if you don't take into account all the good they did,
they failed.
Oh, well, OK.
There's like thousands of years of peace and prosperity.
30 years of bad failure.
It's just fascinating that you look at the people trying to stop the bad
is the reason the bad succeeded.
I don't remember if this is from the movie or from the novelization,
but I think Palpatine said something to the effect in episode two
that the Republic had been going for 10,000 years or something.
Yeah. And Obi-Wan says for thousands of generations,
the Jedi were guardians of peace and justice.
Like, oh, damn that generation's 20 years.
So, yeah, that's that's a lot.
There's a lot.
And as Vito says, losing a war due to unforeseen betrayal
means you're morally incorrect is like that's the idea they're trying to put
across and that is that shit.
That would be like looking at the Gen Xers and saying humanity is a failure.
I'm just bothered by the fact that he's saying that Luca looks at all these
these dead children slash adult teenagers, whatever.
I don't care. All the odds doesn't really matter.
And concludes the Jedi suck.
I just can't believe it.
This is this is like Skywalker.
Can you imagine him like walking around and like lightly kicking
the corpses and being like failure?
Come on, pucks with a stick. Get up.
You guys suck. You let Jedi and Sith with him to the truth
that the Jedi were failures.
Did you strip away the myth and look at their deeds?
Legacy of the Jedi is failure at the height of their powers.
Look at their deeds trying to defeat bad people. Yeah.
Judging them for their results, rather their intentions.
Well, even then, the results still win because 20,000 minimum
20,000 years of peace, 30 years of bad. Hmm.
It's like Luke is like this edgy little bit, little lopsided.
Luke believed wholeheartedly in an idealized version of them
based on a few mere sentences from Obi-Wan and Yoda.
This is kind of like when people say the whole humanity
must be destroyed because like World War Two happened or something.
Like he believed all of Obi-Wan's lies, Rags.
That's what it was. Oh, OK. All right.
He assumed that restoring their order would make things right again.
Joseph Campbell certainly helped.
They were good until Snoke fucked it all up.
What do you mean?
If we leave Snoke unopposed, things will be better
for the galaxy. What?
Like, what are you fucking fucking the person who made this video is retarded.
Oh, my God. Oh.
Tired of this. Stop it.
You can't win this argument for like the whole of Jedi is still kind of shit, too.
It's like they're still leagues better.
But that the heroes conflict can't be solved by a return to the good old days,
that the rebirth of the old thing will only serve.
Why is it that a set of new Jedi would naturally
just be a repeat of the prequel style era?
Why would it not be a new set of people with new values,
new ideas on how to interpret the Jedi texts?
Why can't you work with that?
Why do you have to conclude?
No, that's repeat in the old. We can't do that.
Yeah, if we.
The idea that.
The Jedi Order will be an exact replica in every way,
contextually with the galaxy surrounding it and all of its events
and all of the players, that's ridiculous.
Can you establish that Luke, before saving the galaxy, says I am a Jedi?
Well, he was wrong to be a Jedi.
He was a Jedi or bad.
He was an idiot.
Fucking moron.
Can you imagine if instead of like saying I'm a Jedi to Palpatine,
he just like looked down through his lightsaber away and he was like,
I'm a failure.
I am a Jedi.
No, this isn't what I wanted at all.
Palpatine is just like he doesn't electrocute him
because he's just really fucking confused.
And besides, like, if we're talking about the lessons he learned from Obi-Wan,
what did he learn from the Jedi were guardians of peace in the galaxy?
He's like, not a not a terrible.
No, not a bad idea.
Well, you can't look at that, right?
You have to look at, you know, how wrong they were.
They let Vader happen, you know.
Oh, yeah, they just allowed it.
Those fuckers, those busters, they practically they were the pillars
upon which Palpatine's throne sat.
Those just allowed it to happen.
And then said, lol, so we can smoke weed for 20 years.
DJM voices brings up a good point.
And he says, Christianity isn't practiced the same way it was today
as it was two thousand years ago.
It's like, see, there's so many examples of this.
Like, do you think the Jedi Order is just this if anything,
it wouldn't be like it was in the past because I think that would be interesting.
Yeah, really interesting to have all these characters who are trained
to be, quote unquote, Jedi and yet disagree on what it means to be a Jedi.
No, that's not a story that's interesting.
Change over time.
If anything, an organization is just the result of its members.
I mean, the religion is the same way.
It's just a religion is what its practice, you know, its practitioners do.
Jedi would be the same way like the Jedi Order would be
whatever the Jedi who are members of it do.
Even if they follow it, it's like we need to end all Jedi forever
rather than changing it into something he perceives is better.
It's like if anything, this is just the distinction between Luke
being completely delusional or him being insanely stupid.
Like, how does he think that letting Snoke in the first order
go unopposed by another faction is better like that's nuts,
especially considering he was a hero of the rebellion.
Well, right, preventing him from growing.
Well, the rebellion did bad things, so there shouldn't be a rebellion.
The rebellion failed in some way, which means just let the empire have it all.
I'm a failure like my father before me.
I'm a failure like my father before me.
Luke Bow Bag Walker.
I'm a failure like my father before me.
I love it.
Luke Bow Bag Walker.
Luke and Leia both tried to resurrect the old thing and it went badly.
How does that not look like Coruscant?
Yeah, I know.
And then they had that clarify later like, no, no, it's not Coruscant.
It's like, why does she make it look exactly the same?
To symbolize the destruction of the prequels.
Like, fuck you.
That the rebirth of the old thing will only serve to perpetuate the cycle.
Luke and Leia both tried to resurrect the old thing and it went badly right away this time.
A question, as far as I know, from the canon.
The Republic is fine.
There's nothing wrong with it in the new ones.
It just gets blasted out of the sky by...
What was the faction again?
First Order.
Who the First Order led by, was it?
It was Jedi, right?
Jedi, the ones that...
Yeah.
The failures that are the Jedi, yeah.
Because from what I hear, the Jedi were just terrible, horrible, no good, very bad.
Yeah, like Leia failed because she wanted to keep a military active
in order to repel things like a potential second, third Death Star.
That's a failure on her part now.
That's what he's just said.
Like, she failed.
Like, this fucked up.
Do you know how cool it would have been if TFA was telling the story
of how Kylo Ren turned to the dark side and then Luke desperately trying to stop him
and then it ends with Starkiller Base destroying all those planets
and they're like, oh, fuck, we need to do something.
Can you imagine the millions of ways that the sequel trilogy could have been good?
Oh, so many.
Can you imagine if George Lucas just didn't sell Star Wars?
Told it to daddy to be, it would have been better.
Lucas failed before, but...
The New Republic was fine.
They allowed slavery balls.
I mean, that's compared to the Empire rule, I guess,
but I would actually advocate that's a problem with the film.
Wait, what about slavery?
The Republic, under the Republic, can't abide thrived.
So the idea is the slavery is fine, I guess, in what is one of the most affluent planets
in relation to the solar system.
Do we know, do we know, oh, well, I don't know how close it is
in proximity to like the core worlds because Tatooine just wasn't under
the direct jurisdiction of the Republic.
Yeah, I know, that's Outer Rim, right?
I don't, I'm pretty sure Kanto Bight is not on the Outer Rim, but...
Well, let's...
This is not, but hang on, just because they allowed slavery to be conducted on Kanto Bight,
that does not mean that we should then be like, yeah, the First Order, that's better.
The ones that blow up five planets.
So, Kanto Bight's the city, the planet is, it's a desert planet, actually.
Cantonica, let me see.
It's the, was the capital city on Cantonica, largest artificial ocean in the galaxy.
It was where, next to the Sea of Cantonica.
Let's see, I'm trying to find out...
What a very...
It's on the Outer Rim.
Oh.
Well, in that case, yeah, that means we're set then because that means that doesn't happen under the Republic,
but still, Slave Child seems to think that he will be helped, despite being on the Outer Rim,
if the Republic are reinstated after the First Order.
Yeah, if anything, this just shows that this changes, they allowed it to, they couldn't stop it.
I hope that there's an after-credits scene in Ryaz's Skywalker, where Slave Child's like in his thirties,
he's still a slave, and he keeps looking at the ring, and then he throws it to the ground and like, hangs himself.
He pisses on it, he's like a piece of shit ring.
Yeah, the interesting part, I guess, would be that there's so much trade happening for Canto Bight, involving the resistance at the First Order,
it surprises me that it's on the Outer Rim, but okay.
Yeah, I don't, yeah.
And apparently, I mean, they act like...
So, the people from Canto Bight, they're the ones selling all the equipment and everything to both sides.
At least to some degree.
So, I'm thinking, like, so, the Republic can go there, because they're buying stuff from them.
Maybe they don't go there, all sales are done electronically.
Maybe, you wouldn't download a spaceship.
It's like, actually, I would.
I guess I would, yeah.
You get it 3D printed.
But this time, it's not just him paying the price.
The entire galaxy is suffering the result of his actions.
Uh, sorry, let me roll him back to make sure we know what he's talking about.
Okay, that doesn't mean that trying to resurrect good things is always a doomed thing you should never try.
Like, that's ridiculous.
Leia's failure was not convincing the Resistance to keep a military for some reason.
Or, like, the one that was prepared to take out a Death Star.
I guess they just decided they didn't want to.
How is that her failure?
If anything, based on the, based on, like, how, like, the books and all the information that was never in any of the movies,
Leia was one of the few people who split off from the Senate, Republic, whatever, to try and keep away the First Order and to fight them.
She didn't want to allow them to basically exist out there because she was like, oh, they're going to grow in power and they'll attack us one day.
And then you scan over to Luke, you're saying, you're saying Lucas is failure is to try and restart the good or whatever.
And the obvious results were that one of his students would be converted by the Dark Side and kill all of his students.
That is his failure?
Or is it the fact that he tried to kill him in his sleep?
That's what turned Kylo to the Dark Side.
Was it Snoke? Was it that? Was it both?
In which case, how could it possibly be considered only Luke's failure?
I'll agree that it was certainly Luke's failure to just run off to an island while all of his friends were being killed.
You got me there.
He assumed that restoring their order would make things right again.
Joseph Campbell wrote that the hero's conflict can't be solved by a return to the good old days, that the rebirth of the old thing will only serve to perpetuate the cycle.
This guy said we can't do X, though we can't do X because this guy said so.
What if, right? What if that's bullshit?
You just said what if?
You just said what if Joseph fucking Campbell rag is.
Yeah, I forgot that there are certain people who are always correct about everything always and they are 100% true.
What if, bear with me, what if he didn't think everything through?
What if you could go back to the old, change it to make it better to account for a new time and carry on for as long as you can?
And then things are hunky dory.
No, he said no, stop it. TLJ, that's what happens.
I don't give a fraction of a fuck about what Joseph fucking Campbell has to say.
Well, that's racist.
Let's take it. Let's take it. Here's an example, right? Let's take France.
All right. So 1930s and everything.
France is a country and it's got culture and people as things are great.
And the Nazis invaded.
Yeah. So France, France is invaded by Germany and world two and their government is replaced and it's toppled.
The Nazis are now in control of France.
Nazis are occupying France after that war.
Imagine we're using this logic, right?
It's like, well, establishing a democracy in France.
It's like that just led to the rise of the Nazis in Germany and they got conquered because of it.
We can't pause.
It would be foolish of us to restore democracy in France.
We know what that leads us to.
I mean, you know, I guarantee is that he probably has way more to to develop about this point.
I doubt it's as vague as you can't bring back the old because that seems to be covering too broadly of what you could actually do.
But the idea that it's taking Joseph Campbell out of context, apparently would surprise me.
But the thing is, I was going to say was that the dichotomy is being presented is that we end up with this crazy world where it's just the same as the old stuff.
Or we get the correct answer, which is T.L.J.
It's like there's no in between.
There's no variation. That's just it.
And Campbell said it so.
Luke and Leia both tried to resurrect the old thing and it went badly right away this time.
Luke has failed before, but this time it's not just him paying the price.
The entire galaxy is suffering the result of his actions.
He comes to see that maybe getting all these light side users together invites the dark side to destroy them.
That the Jedi Order was a fatally flawed idea.
I'm almost speechless.
Don't even try and build up a team of good people because bad people will come and destroy them.
It's like it's the idea.
This is insane.
I don't know. We we probably spend we're probably dwelling on this point too long.
It's just that it's so batshit.
Yeah, it's so it's so nuts.
Letting it die out will cause the force to find a new way that may succeed where the Jedi failed.
That's insane.
What do you think of that risk?
Thousands and thousands of years of peace, 30 years of bad.
You know what?
Let's not take that again.
Let's just fucking roll the dice and see what we get.
See what the force comes up with.
Are they just sitting around for ages like force?
You got anything?
Because they're schmool ply.
They're like Jedi, but less monolithic.
More like they're more interested in playing like chess.
They're like hippie Jedi.
Yeah.
They don't have rules, man.
They don't have light sabers.
Can you feel that?
Luke knows his allies won't accept his decision, which is why he leaves them.
He's not giving up on-
What?
He already gave up on them.
He knows his allies won't accept his decision to like destroy the Jedi, so he leaves them.
This is your canon.
This is how you explain why Luke left Leia and Han and the worlds to the devices of the
First Order, because they wouldn't accept that he wants the Jedi to end.
Are you fucking crazy?
Oh my goodness.
What is brain?
It sounds so beyond petty.
I want the Jedi to end.
Well, I don't know if that's a good idea.
Well, fuck you.
I'm going to walk to.
Bye.
Okay.
I wish you'd help us rebuild the Jedi.
If anything, even if you don't call it the Jedi Order, don't you think that, like, because
there are four sensitive people out there, clearly, you know this, don't you think it's
a good idea to Jedi or not, like offer them guidance?
Keep them from becoming Sith?
You just seem to lose any sense of like a moral position in the world.
Like you just, you just felt like, nah, just let it be as it be.
All these places, all these people suffering and dying, as, as the author of this video
has just admitted, all these people are suffering because of Luke's mistaken.
What does he do?
He fucks off.
Hence why Mark Hamill was like, Jedi wouldn't give up, Jedi wouldn't just fuck off.
Hence why thousands and thousands of fans are like, this movie cannot be canon because
it fucks everything up.
Luke was hacked.
On them, he's helping them the only way he thinks he can.
It's a callback to his failure in Empire Strikes Back, showing that Luke now has the maturity
to do the difficult thing and not act on impulse.
Kind of sounds like Luke acted on impulse and when he decided, oh, this is bad.
I guess the solution is to just fucking exile myself forever.
Okay.
It also sounded pretty impulsive to go to crate with the teleporting thing.
I just like that he's like, he's not going to be impulsive and try and help people.
Like, oh, yeah, that'll be, that'll be awkward if he did that.
The new trilogy seems to be heading towards the idea that there needs to be a more permanent
solution to the conflict.
And this is why I don't agree with the people who say that the new films ruined the return
of the Jedi's happy ending.
Luke's Jedi order was always doomed to be undone by the cycle of-
Why?
Why is there the cycle?
That's the thing.
Why?
Even if that's true, that the cycle is always repeating, wouldn't you want it to be on the
good side for tens of thousands of years before it sways dark for 30 and then go-
Hold on.
Sways dark for 30.
To the people in the chat who know the fucking Lortisms, prior to the 10,000 years of peace
that the Jedi brought, did the Jedi get destroyed by the Sith and then have to remake themselves?
I mean, even if that was or wasn't the case, you'd be like, don't you think the thousands
of years are pretty good?
It's like, eh, it's not a million though.
Okay, so, uh, the Old Republic, the Galactic Republic was the ruling government of the
galaxy that existed for more than 25,000 years until its reformation in the first Galactic
Empire in 19 BBY.
Um, so yeah, I'll take 25,000 years of a Galactic Republic if it gets me 30 years of bad.
That sounds like a pretty good trade.
Nah, that's your opinion.
Look, it was doomed to fail.
Apparently 10,000 years, there was like, the Jedi fail, but there was 10,000 years of Jedi
after that.
Well, even- It's not enough.
It's a pretty long time.
Not enough.
The Jedi failing is separate from the Republic because the Republic and the Jedi are two
different things.
Like they cooperate.
Even if it is going to fail again, why can't you reform it?
Exactly.
And what is our recourse?
Why do you have to give up?
What is our choice instead?
Let the bad guys just win.
There's no point.
If we defeat them, we'll just be defeated again.
Like, okay, seems a little pessimistic, but fine.
Something that Luke now has the maturity to do the difficult thing and not act on impulse.
The new trilogy seems to be heading towards the idea that there needs to be a more permanent
solution to the conflict.
And this is why I don't agree with the people who say that the new films ruined of Return
of the Jedi's happy ending.
Literally did.
Of course they did, especially now that you're about to have Palpatine come back and all
that shit.
It's fucked.
Palpatine.
Hey, you say Dagobah.
What's wrong with Palpatine?
What's wrong with Dagobah?
Dagobah.
Dagobah.
It's Palpatine, not Palpatine.
You're both wrong.
Palpatine?
Did I not say Palpatine?
You said Palpatine.
Oh, I must've been leading up to another word.
Yeah.
Normally I say Palpatine.
That must've been a fluke.
That wasn't the norm.
A fluke Skywalker?
It's okay.
Fluke Skywalker.
A fluke musician?
I get it.
Luke's Jedi Order was always doomed to be undone by the cycle of light and dark repeating
again.
Okay, so this really fucks with free will and everything.
So the Force is just, you're doomed to be...
Is this how the Force works?
I guess so.
The Force is just like, it's the good guy's turn.
Now it's the bad guy's turn.
Now it's the good guy's turn.
Now it's the bad guy's turn.
Is it just arbitrarily swinging back and forth whenever it wants?
Okay.
God, how fun.
Don't start the Jedi.
They're doomed to fail.
You gotta do something else.
You gotta wait for the Force to decide on something else.
Something that breaks the cycle.
To be undone by the cycle of light and dark repeating again.
And that's exactly what Luke is trying to stop.
Oh no!
You're actually doing the thing!
You're actually doing the thing!
He's doing the thing!
Oh no!
Oh no!
Guys, I'm sorry.
We're about to enter the danger zone.
They all do it.
They all do it.
Every single one of them always does it.
Themes.
Themes.
Themes.
Themes.
Themes.
Themes.
This is where themes become incredibly important to the story.
Star Wars has always had a lot of general themes.
It's all about generations and it's about the issues of fathers and sons and grandfathers.
But The Last Jedi gets far more specific and says more than any other movie in the series.
Oh boy.
Tell me all about it.
The first theme is the idea of destruction versus preservation.
Obviously old ideas can't work forever and have to be abandoned at some point.
Everything will result in good things being lost.
It's why Kylo Ren is the villain.
All right, so here's the thing.
This is why Kylo Ren is the villain is like, no, Kylo Ren should be the villain because
of the actions he takes, the events that happened around him, because it is a consequence of
the things that occur within his vicinity.
He is in a way a product of his environments and those around him.
It's not this is the theme says we want this theme.
Therefore, Kylo is the villain is like, no, that's the backwards way of creating the
story.
Like Kylo Ren is a person that exists in this world.
He shouldn't be just a slave to whatever the theme is.
He should act in a realistic way.
And that should be I mean, well, I think at that point, the Jedi rebels let it all die.
There has to be a balance between old and new and finding that balance is where the
conflict lies.
So there shouldn't be a balance between the old and the new if the old is terrible, bad.
Like you want to get rid of that.
That's just you want to eradicate evil.
You want to get rid of, you know, bad organizations and murderous people.
So if we're talking about old in the sense of the Galactic Empire, you don't know there's
not a balancing act that you want there.
You want them gone, erased.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not convinced at all that the what we had is the old is some kind of
like, don't want that again, it's like, well, because it led to someone else being on top
eventually.
It's like, yeah, so we need a system that monolithically will survive indefinitely.
And it's also good.
And we're talking 10,000 years isn't enough.
How many people think that they can establish a government and they actually believe that
it will last forever?
Like it will never change into something else.
It will always be as we created it.
There will never be anything a thousand years from now.
The United States of America will be similar to what it is now is like, that's ridiculous.
Like no, I don't think it does anyone really believe that?
Truly, they must be in a minority if they think so.
Be lost to history has aligned him with the bad guys in this regard.
I did not expect Skywalker to be so wise.
The decision to preserve or destroy even plays out in a literal sense with Poe's opening
attack.
I'm with the droid on this one.
Leia's focused on.
Okay, so that's fucking retarded, because if you don't kill the people who are about
to kill you, you're not preserving anything except the enemies.
You're preserving them and not yourself.
That's great.
That's great.
I have heard a brand new argument about that opening thing with Poe, where so it goes.
Poe fucked everything up by attacking with the bombers, as we know.
And then the counter is, no, he didn't.
He destroyed the dreadnought.
The dreadnought is a fleet killer.
It would have fucked up the main ship.
They would have all died if he hadn't done that.
And then the counter counter is, nope, Snoke's ship is a dreadnought.
Therefore, they would have died anyway, anyway, if Poe hadn't done what he did.
I don't know where this has come from.
Snoke's ship is, I don't know what class it is, probably supremacy class.
It's not a dreadnought.
Yeah, it's unique.
One of the things we asked was, how is it that Snoke's ship doesn't have the weaponry
to take out the Raddus?
It just doesn't.
It does.
According to the film, it doesn't.
So according to the film, it just doesn't.
But we know that it fucking does.
Like, come on, no one is believing your bullshit movie.
We are not believing that.
That is absolutely ridiculous.
And if you're talking about preservation, then you have to make the decision.
Do I preserve us, the good people, or do I preserve the enemies trying to eradicate us?
It's like, no, you kill your enemies.
There's a war.
They want to destroy you and all the goodness that you stand for.
They've blown up planets.
What's preservation versus destruction?
Destroy the bad people so you can preserve yourself and your way of life.
Fuck.
Also, small tangent.
Jeremy just pied me with, apparently, Ian McDiarmon, the actor for Palpatine, has recalled
a conversation he had about Emperor Palpatine with George Lucas before the sequel trilogy
hit theaters.
The Scottish actor wanted to know if Palpatine was officially dead.
According to Lucas, the iconic villain was indeed dead after getting thrown down into
the Death Star's reactor by Darth Vader in Return of the Jedi.
And exploding, yes.
Of course Palpatine died, and then Disney was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
He exploded twice.
You think that would have done it, wouldn't you?
You'd think, oh, there you go.
We got old Palpy now, but no.
He threw him down the shaft into the reactor and he blew up and then the Death Star itself
blew up and now he's back.
You see those two explosions that he's just standing like, hey, I'm still waiting for
this nightmare that's been everything since Disney took over to, like, end so I could
wake up and be, what, what, when did Disney actually buy Star Wars?
Was it 2012?
I think.
Yeah.
2012.
Okay.
So how old was it?
They did predict that 2012 was the end of the world.
I guess they were close.
Yeah.
It was the end of one world.
Yeah.
It was the end of the fantasy world.
All right.
Yeah.
I want to go back to when I was 15.
Yeah.
Let's do that.
Come on, guys.
And the days before the Orange Man, he's the one who killed Star Wars.
Yeah.
So not to mention, by the way, because we have to, we have to talk about this.
If Poe had agreed and they all went back to the ships, do you remember how Poe has to
park his X-Wing inside the Raditz before they can leave?
Pretty sure X-Wings have hyperdrive, so I don't know why.
But regardless, the bombers-
I guess he wouldn't want to burn the fuel and everything.
The bombers have hyperdrive, right?
Right?
They must have.
I mean, if they got-
So theoretically-
Let me see.
I think so, yeah.
Theoretically, we're dealing with the idea that if he had said everybody retreat, they
all turn to face the right direction.
They all have the correct coordinates.
They all zoom off, and the Empire are like, ah, you bastards.
I mean, the First Order, sorry.
It is.
So yes, the bombers from The Last Jedi, the MG 100 Star Fortress SF-17, they do have hyperdrives.
Yeah, my point is that they're saying that, like, that's Poe's mistake, when I'm just
sitting here like, man, thank God Poe did what he did, otherwise you guys all would be dead.
No appreciation for that.
In fact, he learns to do the opposite at the end of the film.
It's utterly fucked.
And if you wanted to fix it, you need to work way harder in making that scene much more
clear.
How does he mute Leia's ability to control anybody?
And if she can't, if he outranks her and that's why she can't, then thank God he was in control
because he would know the battle situation better than she would.
Absolutely.
And she'd already sent the bombers out anyway because they arrived right after the call.
Yeah, it seems like that was the plan right up until she decided it wasn't the plan.
Weird how that works.
Nobody likes to talk about this stuff.
Yeah.
No one likes it.
People are just like, things, if it's not on screen, it doesn't exist.
Oh, now it does exist.
Okay.
It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
People arrived at the places where they are in some way.
This is Batman problem.
Batman Gotham problem.
He's like, well, okay.
All right.
You know, they should have done.
We should have had one bomber put it on autopilot to hyperdrive into the dreadnought and everyone
leave.
Yeah.
Why didn't they do that?
Well, I'll tell you what, Rex.
They didn't do it because it wouldn't have worked.
Okay.
You see, the Empire would have light sprung around and they wouldn't have, sorry, the
first order.
My bad.
I keep making this mistake.
I don't know why I keep making that mistake.
It's weird.
I think it's kind of weird that they, why didn't they just disable the big gun?
Why didn't they just hyperdrive into the big gun?
You didn't have to destroy the ship.
You just had to destroy the fucking fuck off cannon.
Best part is, is there's only like two people in those bombers anyway.
So it's like, yeah.
And they're useless.
At least you'll get some out of them.
Just put a droid in there.
We already know for a fact that those ships have hyperdrives because we looked it up.
Well, we had droids piloting ships way back in the prequels.
And recently in Mandalorian.
Yeah.
Once they were capable of engaging hyperdrive, I would have you remember.
Yeah.
This is a thing.
Well.
And that stuff takes place before the sequel trilogy.
It's really just your opinion.
I guess it's only a prequel if I interpret it as such.
Mm-hmm.
She wants to escape once the last ship is ready.
Poe disregards her orders and deploys bombers to finish his attack on the.
Thank God he did.
Thank God he did.
He saved him.
Clap for Poe.
Can I get some claps for Poe?
What a hero.
Thanks.
Good job.
You knew what he was doing.
Save the resistance.
Wait, wait, wait.
Snapping.
Oh.
Okay, clap.
Snaps for Poe.
Snaps for Poe.
Hashtag.
Snaps for Poe.
Hashtag for Poe.
The attacker goes horribly wrong and puts the entire fleet at risk.
The.
The.
The.
The plan succeeds.
The plan succeeds.
They destroy the dreadnought.
They will not go horribly wrong.
What do you mean?
What do you mean?
Oh, Jesus.
I.
Mmm.
Rose's sister to sacrifice herself to save the Resistance.
Which by the way.
Save the resistance you say?
Save the resistance?
Question, Mr. Maker of Video.
If Leia had said yes, go for it.
Which seemed to be the plan up until she said no.
What was the plan for the bombers?
Because the only way they seem to be able to deploy their payload is to be right on top
of the target in open warfare.
Like, I don't think these things can survive.
One TIE fighter accidentally knocks out three of them.
It seems like these things are built to be beaten.
But half a TIE fighter accidentally destroys three barbers.
TIE fighters are like being a Jedi.
You can do more damage and you're more useful if you're dead.
Learn something new every day, I suppose.
There you go.
You just don't believe such a big story because they blew up the thing.
But Leia regards it as a failure because of the people they love.
Yeah, Leia would have regarded it as a failure in pieces of debris once it destroyed them
later.
Leia wouldn't have existed to regard it in any way because she'd be dead along with
the rest of the resistance.
Another thing they like to forget about is when the Empire turned back up.
He's like, permission to get into my ship and start shooting things.
She was permission granted.
Implying that like, yeah, Poe, you know what you're doing.
Get out there.
As if it's just not the disaster that people try and frame it as.
And I actually think it's because of Rian Johnson's incompetence.
It's not because that's not what they were going for.
I know that's what they were going for.
They just fucked it up.
You established this horrible monster that's going to kill everyone.
Guy comes up with a plan to sacrifice a portion of your army to kill monster.
And everyone says it would have been better if you didn't kill monster and we all died.
Doesn't make sense.
I'm sorry.
That's where we're at.
Lost and over the course of the film, it's clear that Leia is right.
The resistance doesn't even have a fleet for that ship to be a threat to.
Oh, OK.
OK, so fuck this.
How can you be this retarded?
OK, so the LJ fan that explains every this week, it's destroyed across the movie like.
And plus this makes no sense.
OK, is like now they don't have a ship for the enemy to just they don't have a fleet
for the enemy to destroy.
He's like, motherfucker.
They would nobody would be left for them to destroy if they hadn't done that.
I need to need to chill out because it's making me I don't get it.
How can someone be this stupid?
So I'll remind him of the several seeds in which people are getting obliterated and hold
us going.
Well, keep going, guys.
Remember that the medical frigate gets blowed up.
Yep.
Keep going.
So they they still have the raddest.
The reason that they survive, which, by the way, makes no sense anyway, is because the
enemies don't have a dreadnought, a weapon that can destroy them at distance while they're
chasing through space.
For some reason, they forget about all of their other weapons.
I don't really care about that for this specific point, which is the dreadnought would have
destroyed the raddest before they reach crate killing everyone.
OK, Poe did a good.
So it's just best if they were all destroyed at the beginning of the film instead of surviving
as long as they can.
Yes, I guess like is that actually I want to see this.
I want to see Leia be like pull out and then Poe goes pull out everybody.
They all hyperspace out and then the whole empire follow them and the dreadnought just
snipes them all one by one as it chases all of them.
Starting with the raddest.
They'd be dead faster and there wouldn't even be a raddest to issue commands to.
There wouldn't be a holdo.
There wouldn't be a Leia.
There wouldn't be those ships docked inside.
This is I just I don't understand.
I just don't understand how somebody can look at this and be like, yeah, this totally
makes sense.
Leia was totally right.
It's like, if anything, if I was on the crew, I'd be like, oh, thank God, this Poe guy didn't
listen to Leia or else I would be dead right now on a high charge.
And she's like, oh, you're a studio and well, my friends are getting killed.
Carapacean menaces comment.
They had only one dreadnought, even though Poe refused them, plural, like dreadnought
with fleet killers.
And it's like, yeah, they brought along more like 17 star destroyers, but not a single
additional dreadnought.
Also, even if there was more than one dreadnought, you still have to kill the one about to kill
you. You got to get rid of both of them at that point.
Yeah, you're just like, yeah, you got to get rid of them both.
And why not just hyperdrive into the next one?
Boom. Problem solved.
Episode nine. This isn't even going over the horrible ideas that they're like, we've got
thousands of TIE fighters, one TIE fighter knocks out the hangar in the bridge.
And we're sitting here, oh, well, three, whatever, sitting here with thousands of them.
We're like, nah, nah, nah, like this comet plot twist, they're all suicidal.
Leia was trying to kill everybody.
That was the virtuous thing to do, because who wants to live with this world?
What world? By the end, those people and resources were far more valuable than this empty
victory. Oh, how they wouldn't be alive.
They were talking about what how can you how can you say this?
As opposed to, OK, the options are we sacrifice some members of our army to destroy the
enemy. By the way, the point of an army kind of, you know, you got to understand we have
to expend our military to destroy theirs until one of us surrenders ideally.
So the alternative is that we all die.
OK, probably not the best idea.
Right. Radical notion that maybe whatever other alternative to all of us dying might be
better just by default.
This is insane. This is insane.
Just a bit, just a tad, just insane.
And in the course of the film, it's clear that Leia is right.
The resistance doesn't even have a fleet for that ship to be a threat to by the end.
It makes no sense. Those people and resources were far more valuable than this empty
victory destroyed. Leia depends on Poe to take over for her, but he only understands
leadership from the perspective of an X-Wing pilot.
Oh, someone who destroys the enemy has victory.
He only understands the enemy.
Wait, wait, hold on.
He only understands leadership from the perspective of being a leader in an X-Wing
squadron.
Yeah, which, by the way, that wasn't the scenario he was in at the beginning of the
film. No, no, he was leading a not a fleet and not an X-Wing.
OK, there's different things.
Leia's only way to lead is to be suicidal.
Exactly.
Like what? Why are all TLJ fans like this?
I don't know.
They're like, it's literally better that we all die right now than expend part of our
resources to save all of our lives.
He's like, surely if the if the option is between some of us dying and all of us dying,
surely one of those is better than the other.
This is so monumentally wrong.
Just this whole bit.
This is nuts.
But the Jedi, he's filled with misconceptions about what the role he's growing into is.
So Rian Johnson takes away his X-Wing and forces him to learn the hard way.
Forces him into a mutiny because his captain won't tell him a plan that doesn't involve
killing everyone on his own team.
I can't believe we're still on this.
Like, come on, the Holdo plan thing was so stupid.
It was nonsensical.
The fact that not everybody mutinied is the real mirror.
People are saying to Goodell that Goodell specifically, what do you guys reckon?
I think they might be talking about the he only understands something.
Leadership from as an X-Wing pilot.
He only understands leadership from the perspective of an X-Wing pilot.
OK, so let's talk about X-Wings.
X-Wings destroyed Starkiller Base.
X-Wings destroyed the Dreadnought.
X-Wings blew up a Star Destroyer.
They helped destroy a second Star Destroyer.
I don't know.
I feel like someone in the next wing might have a couple of good ideas regarding
military strategy.
This is the guy who blew up Starkiller Base in an X-Wing.
He doesn't understand leadership, though.
What an idiot.
He saved everybody.
He could understand how to win a war and save lives.
He only destroyed the most powerful weapon in the history of Star Wars.
What a froube.
Oh, no, I can't say that.
God.
To him, leadership is all about bravado and heroics, but his choices end up necessitating
that.
You can't make this argument when he's he may as well be lied to, like lied by omission.
She tells him so little he's convinced, along with several other people in his team,
that basically Holders going to kill everyone.
How can you say that this is him being like, oh, I want bravado?
I want to save people.
Like, I just it blows my mind.
People have this interpretation after that scene where he says, give us hope, tell us
this something.
And her response is a fucking like platitude.
She just looks at him.
Hope is like the sun.
It's it's big and rad and stupid.
Hope is like the sun.
If you get close to it, it kills you.
You see, this is why it doesn't make sense.
Like, no, no, no, we don't need like we don't need fortune cookies
right now. We need a military battle plan because they're trying to kill us with their
lasers and stuff.
You like how as well people will often cite.
So you don't think you fucked up, do you?
You're like, no, you're like, so how did how did how did the bad guys find out about the
transports again?
Oh, through DJ.
And how did DJ find out?
Well, he overheard Poe on the radio.
So it's Poe's fault.
It's like, no, Poe had no idea that that guy was even listening to the conversation with
Finn.
He was telling because they'd fit about the situation.
Yeah, because DJ shouldn't have even been involved.
Shouldn't be in the fucking room.
It's all Finn's fault.
And everyone blames Poe.
It's so fucked up.
It's like maybe on the call with rags.
And then I just like open onto speaker without telling him and like some other guy hears it.
It's rags his fault.
How the fuck does that work?
Nonsense.
It is desperation of the delusional mind to try and make Poe out to be incompetent when he is
the most valuable at well, besides Ray, that the resistance has.
Who needs a pilot when you can fucking pop sons in the solar system?
Sure, she'll do that in the next one.
Others heroically sacrifice themselves.
And while their actions work, it's a leader's job to prevent things from coming to that.
There were heroes on that mission.
Dead heroes.
Yeah, that's what here was.
OK, here we go again.
All right.
Listen, let's go.
Let's look at the Vietnam Memorial.
There were heroes and dead heroes.
Dead heroes.
No, no, we can take this back further.
That war can't make a video defending the last Jedi talking about Joseph with Mr.
Campbell, whatever his first name is, JC, and the hero's journey and then say, yeah,
did you write what do you think happens in all the in a lot of these classic hero's journey
tales?
The hero dies.
You're not getting it right.
You're not getting it.
So so Poe is saying, hey, appreciate the fact that a bunch of people died heroically.
And then she's like, yeah, they're dead.
They're not alive anymore.
Thanks to your plan.
They're dead.
You know, the fact that they save the rest of the fleet doesn't matter.
It's the fact that they died to save the fleet.
They they knew what they signed up for.
It's tragic, but they are soldiers in an army and they died to save the rest of their
sacrifice being vain.
They would be alive if it wasn't for Poe's bad decision so that they could have died
five minutes later.
Rags.
Okay.
You understand now.
I it's just man wrong that Poe allowed them to die faster in exchange for everyone else
living longer as opposed to everyone dying slightly later.
That is the argument.
The slam dunk.
So I can't believe Poe just looks at Laneus like notice how alive we are right now.
You ever stop and think about how alive we are at this moment and how that happened.
You're welcome, by the way.
He's lucky that when they just when they figured out they have a hyperspace tracker, he's
lucky to just look at Leia like, oh, oh, how terrible this has happened.
If only we had destroyed the.
Oh, we did.
Thank goodness.
So now we can actually outrun them.
Well, not outrun them, but whatever the hell happens in this film that they try to make
sense of, but that's a whole other discussion of nonsense.
Also, he still hasn't talked about Kanto bite.
Like maybe they're looking at this through the literal, actual legitimate.
I'm trying to think of the other words, literal, actual, legitimate, legitimate, real
lens, whatever of the lens of what Rose said at the end.
This is how we win, not be fighting what we hate, but saving what we love.
And so they think that this is an actual military strategy that should be employed
whenever possible.
Yeah, I just I just want to see that line being repeated as they're all obliterated by
the dreadnought.
I'm so confused.
I mean, they pretty much did that when the laser attacks the thing.
She's like, save what you love.
Absolutely.
Everything they love is destroying.
And and then again, all of this wouldn't even be an issue if hyperdrive ships into the
dreadnought.
Yeah, it's just it's almost like a given that you can't even discuss that because of how
obviously it fucks everything up.
Why didn't Yoda just show up and lightning the dreadnought can?
Oh, right.
Oh, such a big problem that he can do like he's a ghost.
He's a puppet ghost.
He's a ghost that can arrive whenever he wants to do just fucking blow shit up.
Still, no, there's no reason that Leia couldn't show up there.
Okay, but have you thought about the themes?
Oh, the themes of all basically why the film is really good.
Have you thought about that?
The theme?
Oh, the theme is that the Last Jedi is good.
So obviously everything in the film has to service the idea that the Last Jedi is good.
Yeah, pretty much that.
Okay.
Sorry for a second there.
I thought you'd missed it.
How awkward that would have been.
Going to that.
There were heroes on that mission.
Dead heroes.
Yeah, they saved their lives.
He comes to realize that protecting the resistance is a far greater responsibility than
blowing things up and completes his arc by wrecking.
He didn't complete his arc.
If anything, he's regressed from a character who is competent and effective to just some
fucking loser.
How many people die on that final mission anyway?
Isn't it like 90% of them?
I think the only people that make it back are Poe, Rose, and Finn.
And what are the odds of that?
Rose and Finn just don't even make sense.
But I'm like, what?
Crawl across the whole battlefield.
It's like, what is it?
I could just imagine a couple of the the Stormtroopers in the AT-AT's watching them
and laughing the whole time, like eating popcorn.
They're like, I wonder how long it's going to take.
It's like, I got 20 credits says he can't pull her for 10 minutes.
It's like, oh, yeah, I only say six minutes and I'll put 50 credits.
How long before he abandons it?
Also, I want to highlight, like, I think we've done this before, but I just love the idea
that Kylo and Luke are facing off and in the background, he's just yanking it.
It's like, yeah, yeah, he's trying to deliver some epic speech.
You just hear him, you see him like roll some sweat off his head.
Like, oh, yeah, it focuses on him in the background.
He's yanking it.
And they both just stomp and look like I'm getting a completely different image in my
head whenever you guys describe it as yanking.
That's because you dirty, dirty, dirty boy.
There were heroes on that mission.
Dead heroes.
You know how we aren't dead heroes right now.
I never get less frustrated listening to her say that.
As the protecting the resistance is a far greater responsibility than blowing things
up and completes his arc by recognizing that the thing is trying to kill you, then they
can't kill you.
No, that's not necessarily true, Rags.
What if you blow up the piece of dynamite that's in your pocket that's trying to kill
you, then you blow up to gotcha.
I don't even understand how how could a rational adult human being say these things?
They should have just died.
Like, yeah, I guess they should have just died.
I'm just picturing the scene like the right pose.
So what eventually that he's like, we got to blow up everything to prevent it from
blowing us up.
And then someone goes, oh, it's not always about blowing things up.
And he's like, he looks down and he's like, oh, my God.
Like, imagine that you have like a game that's Halo.
You've read versus blue and one of the team is just they don't want to kill the other
one at all and they don't use any weapons or punch or anything.
Like, which side do you think is going to win?
Which one's defending what they love?
Clarify for me.
That's the one that wins Rags.
That's what I've learned.
How much longer is this terrible video?
13 minutes.
We're nearly down to the 10 minute mark.
We're getting there.
Who knows?
There might be an ad at the end.
Greg is, don't worry.
We get tonal.
That's going to say, Tony will say this.
Keep your eyes on the prize, gentlemen.
In an attack is a futile gesture.
The point is stated with absolutely no subtlety when Rose saves Finn from
sacrifice.
Please mention the laser in the back row.
Please mention it.
No, I hope it's just like you can see it.
I really hope that he does the same thing that Mackintosh did where he just plays
the clip and then we get to see the explosion fire.
Yeah, please do it.
Please be that.
Please do it.
Please.
Please do it.
Not fighting what we hate.
Save him what we love.
But the film has earned that corner.
No, he can't.
No, no.
Fuck you.
No, boom.
Throws popcorn.
That's great.
You left out the best part.
Damn it.
That's so shifty editing.
I was getting so ready to laugh.
Boo.
We're all disappointed.
You suck.
You could have made this video go from a negative 10 to a negative nine.
Save him what we love.
But the film has earned that corny line by hammering this point in from the very first
It literally hasn't.
It does not do that.
You know this character you have on screen blows up a dreadnought, right?
Yeah, but she defended what she loves, right?
Do you know how many thousands of people she kills?
She defended what she loved.
It's different.
Different.
Oh, OK.
Different.
OK.
Different.
Blowing up that cannon would have just delayed the inevitable.
What?
No.
No.
Oh my God.
They say in the film the cannon is the only thing that's capable of breaching the fucking
wall.
It would have literally kept people from dying.
What do you mean?
Just shoot yourself in the head.
You're only delaying.
No.
No, no, no, no.
How do you justify this?
You're so stupid.
He's like, eventually the Republic will fail.
So just don't even.
Well, that's what he said about the Jedi.
Why?
Why is it to a 10,000 year piece when it's just going to end anyway?
Fuck no.
What is it?
Just shoot yourself in the fucking head.
You're not going to live forever.
You're just delaying the inevitable, fighting for your life and life and what you love,
what you care for.
Keep death of the universe.
Everybody should just kill everyone.
Fuck it.
Life living people, it doesn't matter.
You're all going to fucking die.
Just don't postpone the inevitable.
Just kill yourself.
Oh, oh, God, drinker, you just missed.
Is critical drinker here?
Oh, my God.
Critical drinker.
We're sprinkle tisms.
You just drink a golden quote.
Is that him?
Does he have verification or not?
I don't know.
I didn't tell verification.
It's something you have to reply.
Let's go to channel.
Let's see if it actually is him.
Yeah, it's him.
All right.
Drinker, let him listen to this.
Oh, my God.
Woo!
Aw.
He's like, should we fight the Nazis?
He's like, no.
We're going to die anyway.
We're all mortal men anyway.
We're all going to die.
Let them take over America or whatever.
Fuck it.
Shouldn't we stop them to save what we love?
No.
That's not how it works.
Just believe.
Just have hope.
Just something.
Their only goal was getting out alive, which Finn does thanks to Rose.
Like it or not.
She was right.
No.
She wasn't.
If anything, she was right by accident.
Yeah, Luke is apparently the one that saves the ball.
Not her.
If she hadn't stopped Finn and he blew up the cannon and Luke never arrived, they would
have escaped all the same.
You imagine them escaping because they blow up the cannon and Luke shows up to delay them
and he's like, oh, you didn't need.
Oh, I just died for no reason.
Wow.
Well.
You would have to have.
So if Rose is only she's not even correct, but she's really if I was going to if I was
going to be as insanely overly generous to the point of insanity and irrationality, then
it would be that other people are just doing it and not you are going to have to get down
to that.
It's essentially the idea that it's more noble to just let yourself be killed, even though
evil people are the ones trying to kill you.
It's better that you just let the evil people murder you and planets full of people because
at least you didn't destroy what you hate.
Like maybe it's maybe it's a good thing that you hate the evil people destroying planets.
Maybe that's kind of a good thing.
In fact, if you didn't hate them, I'd kind of look at you a little.
It blows my mind.
Why?
Why didn't Yoda force lightning the cannon?
You imagine he's not figured it out quite yet.
He turns up next to the cannon and they're like all the troopers see him.
They're like, what the fuck?
He's like.
Come on.
They're like, it sparks and they're all like, wait, what was he doing?
Stop it.
You little green puppet.
Just start shooting him.
He's like, leave me alone.
It would have made for a better film.
I'm sorry.
That just I want to see Yoda trying to blow things up, but he's not quite able to do it.
This arc shows the importance of heroes and legends.
We know from The Force Awakens that he's not a hero, but a guy who did the right thing
at the right time against every fiber of his being telling him otherwise.
All he wanted to do was disappear.
He was never joining the resistance and only stuck around in the last film to rescue Ray.
Thank you for telling us what the film literally tells us.
Yeah, I don't.
I guess we're on to Finn now.
It's like, okay, tell me how this is meaningful.
Regardless, he becomes a hero overnight.
Rose's character demonstrates the important effect his actions have had.
Well, we heard about it.
My sister Paige said, Rose, that's a real hero.
She's deflated.
That's a real hero who's done absolutely nothing.
We all question, like, how did that story get spread exactly?
How did Rose's sister even know who Finn was?
Like, hasn't it been just like a night?
You know what I mean?
Then there's like 400 people on the ship.
Most of which, well, maybe not most, but a lot of which would have been at the fight
for Starkiller.
Surely.
In those X-wings, I mean?
I mean, yeah, it's not a very big organization.
Probably a huge amount of crossover.
And the issue with Finn, we already know his issues in TFA, carrying him over to this film,
it's just embarrassing that he, like, gets told that a good evil, it doesn't matter.
And he's like, okay.
And then once he's betrayed by DJ, betrayed, quote, unquote, he commits to being rebel
scum.
It's like, oh, okay.
Remember he learns about Rose's horrible history in Canterbury, which hopefully is going to
come up now, because we've got the perfect intro of Canterbury, I'm sure it's coming.
He's like sad face.
She's like, oh my God, we used to, you know, we lived in blah, blah, blah, and I just remember
thinking like, yep, her horrible life growing up when the Republic was in power, who you
are now trying to get back in power.
I don't understand.
Jack really wanted her to come on.
I mean, we're gonna, I don't even know if we have the, like, I don't know how stupid
this sounds.
I don't know.
We have the time.
If we have a fourth person reacting to all the content, we've still got, actually,
What if it was for the rest of this video?
Is he interested?
Yeah.
If he is, he could let us know.
But yeah, maybe for just the rest of this video, I know it's kind of like a trio thing
we got going.
But yeah, because I'm starting to, starting to really hate this video might revitalize
us to a degree.
You might.
Yeah.
So if he wants to stick around for the next, I mean, I say the next 13 minutes of this
video, which is three hours for us.
Yep.
But maybe that's what happens when basically everything you say is fucking wrong.
All right.
Kicking.
Well, yeah, we'll continue, but I'll keep an eye on chat.
What effect his actions have had.
Well, we heard about it.
My sister, Paige, said, Rose, that's a real hero.
She's deflated when finding out that he's actually a deserter.
But over the course of the story, he's not a deserter, not a deserter.
It's going to find Ray because he's not a part of the resistance.
Yeah, I'm not even a part of the resistance and I'm not, I can't desert if I'm not part
of your organization.
And even if we look at this from a moral standpoint, he's not deserting.
Also, her hair in this frame looks like one of those Nazi helmets.
A little bit.
Also, he said he struggled to play catch up on this video.
I.
But, yeah, nice to see you anyway, Mr.
Sir.
Live up to the myth.
DJ tests his commitment to make your book available in paperback.
I don't have a Kindle.
Yeah, idiot or a hardback.
In his pressure to live up to the myth, DJ tests his commitment to playing hero with
a muddied view of right and wrong that may appeal to his desire to flee.
It's all a machine.
He didn't join the free.
Don't join.
But he overcomes his uncertainty and recognizes that this is where he was never not.
What do you mean?
Why are you explaining this like he went on some crazy ass journey?
He just gave CJ a look.
Well, DJ, sorry.
And then later on, he's like sort of winning with their plan.
And then they get captured.
And then he's like, you what does he call him?
You murdering bastard, you traitoring bastard, something calls him a bastard.
Yeah.
And then like Captain Fazma was like.
You your scum, and he's like rebel scum.
And we're just sort of like, oh, oh, OK.
Yep. And then he takes it too far, you see.
He tries to kill himself for a cause.
And then Rose is like, nah, dummy, you need everyone to be killed that you love.
Otherwise you might end up killing someone you hate.
But that belongs by the end.
He is the hero Rose originally thought him to be.
And Rose is inspired to grow from a meek technician into a hero herself.
This is the value that a hero has.
So we're really we're really I wish he was a dead hero.
But man, we are we're really lowering the bar for what a hero is.
Is her heroic act preventing Finn from saving everyone?
Is that what he's referencing?
I think her heroic act is biting Hux in that deleted scene, like some feral animal.
It's either that or the fact that she shot at Fazma and it did nothing.
That was also her hero moment.
OK, even if it isn't really true, all of the mythology that Star Wars is based on is fiction.
It exists across every culture because of our psychological need for it.
Those things do.
What are those lowering things do they like grapple into the floor to help balance?
I don't know.
Well, why it was balance easier if one of the sides wasn't fucking massive and the other one was tiny.
I didn't build this thing rags.
I just say, you know, what are these are like the dumbest designs for vehicles ever?
What do they do?
They don't have guns.
Well, that was always my question.
I was curious what they were supposed to do.
And I guess the whole plan the whole time was to just drive up into the cannon and blow it up that way, I guess.
And Rose couldn't even help but fuck that one up.
Rose got really far ahead of Finn and then right angle turned or left angle turned sorry and crashed him out.
And if you don't want Finn to die, why don't you just kill yourself?
And why did she do a thing that could easily have guaranteed both of their deaths?
It's such a bad scene.
It hurts to think about it's crate is a disaster culture because of our psychological need for it.
Ryan Johnson is saying that it's OK if the hero doesn't measure up to the myth because it's not about that individual.
It's about the larger as long as as long as you get the idea you want at the end.
It doesn't matter how stupid and ridiculous and nonsensical it took for you to get there.
It's just, well, as long as the ending was the payoff that I wanted, it's just something.
Someone call them salt tractors, salt tractors.
It's not about farming or farming the salt.
It's not about the heroes, salt this year.
It's not about the individual heroes.
It's about the legend they leave behind and how they inspire other people with heroic legends, stories and stuff.
And it's like, ah, like like Luke at the end of the sixth episode.
It's like, no, like look at the end of this one, like, oh.
I mean, I don't know how this story managed to spread.
And why is it that the logic of it's not always about the character means you can now just shit all over Luke?
I don't understand.
Why couldn't you have it so that he was consistent with himself and he managed to spread stories of his heroics?
In fact, the only way you could have this lesson happen is by deleting the knowledge of the OT, which for some reason works.
Nobody seems to remember if it even happened.
It's just it's painful.
Brian Johnson is saying that it's OK if the hero doesn't measure up to the myth, because it's not about that individual.
It's about the larger idea that they provide the spark for.
Oh, is that the case?
Why do you why do you think?
Why do you think they provide sparks for anything?
How do you think that happens?
Do you think that we hold up completely normal, mundane, unremarkable people as heroes to idolize when they don't do anything?
They usually do with being a hero implies doing something heroic.
And that's what we see in them.
We don't just come up with the idea of heroism out of nowhere.
It's based off of things that heroes do.
Go in the galaxy to the point that people think everything would be solved if he just returned.
It would certainly fucking help.
Yeah, no, my position is just that I would like it if he helped.
That's all. Yeah, I mean, if it's not even necessarily because I think that they all win with him.
It's that I feel uncomfortable knowing that Luke doesn't give a shit.
That really puts me in an awkward position.
I'm like, hmm, don't like even even if Luke wasn't there in that scene.
And this stuff would still would have happened and they would have escaped.
So he didn't even really do anything.
Just kind of what did Luke do really, though?
Yeah, I guess he's talking about the characters in universe when he says this.
I just hope he's not using a straw man again.
It's like you all think that he just saved the day if he turned up.
It's like unnecessarily provide the spark for Luke is the biggest hero in the galaxy
to the point that people think everything would be solved if he just returned.
Because of you, now we have a chance.
No, he says we have a chance.
Well, a chance to find Luke, and that would lead ultimately to a chance.
That's just problems with Force Awakens.
It doesn't even make sense.
I think I highlight. I was like, why would you think that Luke is the one
that's going to be able to just turn everything?
But I mean, the idea that Luke being on the team gives them a shot.
Yeah, why wouldn't it?
Yeah, it's who thinks that we get a guaranteed
double you if Luke shows up for it.
He's that powerful Rags.
He was going to pick up all the 80 80s and crush them into one big bowl
and throw it at the sun and collect the money on scrap to buy some
new ships for your resistance.
Luke Skywalker, Luke Skywalker.
They believe that was a compilation of people saying Luke.
Remember what happens immediately after Ray saying that?
I thought he was a myth.
Yeah, that's just that's what like.
Well, that's that's a good example.
That's a fantastic example of a meaningless edit. Yeah.
Do you want to do a compilation of the amount of times Hans' name is said?
Let's just do that.
And so low nobody left in the galaxy for you to swindle.
Even the myth version of Luke, the one that fans wanted,
the infallible hero who doesn't exist.
Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope.
Is he going to say what I think he's going to say?
A Gary Stu.
If you. No, that's what fans wanted.
Luke, the Gary Stu.
What's wrong with you?
Why are they like?
And I'd like to remind everybody that this was the convincing.
You're going to call Luke.
You're going to call Luke a Gary Stu.
But then you people freak out every time
that we call Ray a Mary Sue and actually have evidence to back it up.
If anyone was convinced by this video,
I have to question if your brain was functioning.
Oh, my God. Maybe they were sleepy.
Sleepy. Yeah.
King Arthur has always been a major influence on Star Wars,
but it's especially clear in the new movies.
Ray offers Luke his Excalibur and the chance to return as the hero
and Luke bitterly rejects it.
You see, I've reframed it within King Arthur now that it's better.
It's like, no, still sucks.
No, still.
And even then, Excalibur really isn't really isn't the good get your roof.
Which is kind of out of character.
Luke would never throw away his lightsaber like it regard.
Oh, shut the fuck.
Wow. He did the argument.
Holy shit. This guy's an idiot.
He did. Everybody does this one.
I would never throw his lightsaber would he?
Oh, look, he did.
Oh, we have a context trying to symbolize that he is not going to continue
attacking Vader is the exact same as someone going, hey, this is your lightsaber.
No. What did you throw this used paper?
Use paper played into the garbage.
Well, that justifies you throwing a live grenade at a child.
I mean, you're just throwing something.
It's all the same.
Just throwing stuff is all the same.
This comparison, I can't remember if this is another one,
but I was like, how long before they say Luke wore clothes at the OT?
He does this in the sequels.
He's entirely within his character.
Yeah, if Luke if Luke puts on a dress here, it makes sense because he wore clothes here.
It's all the same.
There's no, oh, OK, let's break down why this is an insanely stupid thing to do.
And I'm disappointed in anybody who was convinced by this.
So why did Luke throw away his lightsaber in that throne room?
Oh, well, what what led him to do that?
Why why would he have done that?
Why would he have discarded his weapon in that throne room?
Right. Well, the emperor told Luke to kill Darth Vader to give into his hate.
Yada, yada, yada.
And Luke threw away the lightsaber as a symbol to the emperor that he was not going to do that.
He had he was resolute in his position that he would not do something
that was foundationally immoral, that was wrong,
that would directly result in the death of somebody that he cared for in some way
and that he wouldn't submit to the emperor.
Well, isn't that what's going on in T.L.J?
Isn't it? Ray Ray Ray asks him to kill Vader or whatever, right?
With the sword.
And I guess in T.L.J.
he throws the lightsaber away to give the audience a giggle, even though
Luke like a realistic or a reasonable Luke, an actual Luke, not Jake
from State Farm, if he saw this, he'd be like, holy shit.
And all of the memories that were associated with this lightsaber,
everything that it had been through, who had wielded it, what it was used for.
He wouldn't just like someone just shows up with a lightsaber
that means so much to you.
And then he's just like tosses it away and walks away without a thought
without without a word. He doesn't say anything.
He is like, he doesn't even care.
It's like, shouldn't you be concerned?
Someone found you when you came to the most unfindable place in the galaxy?
Like if she found some chick found you with your lightsaber,
who who else could find you?
What if it was Snoke?
Could Snoke find you?
Could the First Order find you?
There are other people on this island.
Should be should you be concerned about their safety?
What about the safety of yourself?
You're missing the way that this breakdown are insane.
The amount of ways that this breaks apart are incredible.
Mind boggling.
Like I said, he's he's he seems like he's just compiled
a lot of the standard arguments.
We've been through these a million times.
And it's it's as surface level as Luke through his lightsaber before he's in character.
Luke attacked Vader.
That means attacking Kylo is the same. Oh.
You think that I came to the most unfindable place in the galaxy for no reason at all.
That saber is a symbol of every.
No, no, no, it's literally not.
And if anything, that line would back up what I said.
Not what he's saying.
If anything, that specific lightsaber wouldn't really make much sense
for that line since he hasn't had it since the end of episode five.
It's a symbol for all that is tism.
Everything that went wrong in his life.
He resents it and the myth surrounding him.
But it puts Luke in the painful position of knowing that everyone's last hope
is resting with him and there's nothing he can do for them.
His resolve to stay.
What do you mean there's nothing you can do for him?
Why would that be his conclusion?
Why would he think there is nothing I can do?
Maybe showing up that could, you know, even saying hello.
I'll probably do something for the morality team, but OK.
Disconnected and end of the Jedi begins to crack.
He's reminded of the good he was able to do
while inspired by the Jedi myth.
And the bad that happened when he wasn't there.
Wait, why did he why did he?
Oh, wait, he's saying that the dice symbolize Han and Han's death is the bad.
While I understood that to be the bad was reference referencing.
You're a solo is the bad.
You're like, oh, surrounding him.
But it puts Luke in the painful position of knowing that everyone's last hope
is resting with him and there's nothing he can do for them.
His resolve to stay.
How does he know there's anything we can do?
How does he know that?
Because why would he even think that he's sad?
He's a sad man.
He's old. Remember, he's old.
He is old.
And wouldn't this just make him resolute to try all the more?
No, no, no.
Crack.
He's reminded of the good he was able to do while inspired by the Jedi myth
and the bad that happened when he wasn't there.
Ray wears him down to the point that he not only begins teaching her
but opens himself back up to the force.
Yeah, it didn't take much, did it?
Yeah, it's kind of weird how that's a Randy.
Yeah, Randy managed to crack your entire tenure
developed perspective at the very least.
So good job, Luke.
And yeah, and if if you're talking about Yoda, then it's like, man,
he should have showed up like years ago.
He did this shit before Yoda even showed up.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Someone said my dad went to to to get some books 30 years ago.
Is he coming back?
And just as he's ready to return with her history repeats.
Don't do this.
You must not go believing he's lost her and only made.
Oh, OK. Yeah.
It's driven away all the context and it's the same thing.
This is so dishonest.
Well, like when he cut the scene before the laser exploded,
all the people we love after Rose said protect the people we love.
You read like that.
The time that he tried to defend Leia surviving through space
while deliberately leaving out parts of the article that defeat his argument.
Yeah, I'm confused.
Rags, how did you conclude what you just said?
He's everything's been so great so far.
Ah.
Yes, I don't believe I don't believe you when you say this.
You two are has made good content.
Hey, man.
I don't know. Have you seen it?
Have you? Hmm.
Hey, no. And I never go into watch any of this somewhere out there.
T.L.J. rots the brain.
OK, maybe this is OK.
He's correct about anything.
I'm going to be convinced it's by accident.
Oh, oh, man.
Things worse again.
He recommits to torching the last remnants of the Jedi
when Yoda finally sets him straight on the last theme failure.
Oh, my.
Yoda sets him on the last theme.
I was Jesus Christ.
He has to tell him the theme.
Luke, by being terrible,
much like all of the failures of the Jedi, because they suck,
you've now learned the thing you got to do is die.
But you got to do it by appearing as a ghost to trick Kylo
to think you're actually there so that a few seconds go by the team.
Good guys, OK?
That's what you got to do.
It's failure, most of all, the greatest teacher failure.
Mm hmm. The series is full of that's just crazy enough to work plans.
And this may be the first time it actually doesn't work.
You know, because I really plan was retarded.
Is he referring to the plan to get the code breaker as the crazy enough to work,
but just didn't. It's like what stopped their plan was a random droid
spotting them. It was the labest fucking defeat ever.
No, no, I feel like if I do something correct, then that's a pretty solid
teaching that what I did was something I should stick with.
The players are an inevitable part of life and they don't always happen
for poetic reasons.
Like Luke, the good guys tried to help and only made things worse.
When what? When when?
Oh, he's referring to Poe is trying to help and it leads to getting everyone killed.
Yeah, that's because of Holdo. She's like the villain.
Also, but again, this is like Poe saved everyone.
Poe saved everyone's lives so that they that some of them would die
at a later date due to attacks.
Why save an army if later on someone in the army could die?
I just don't. This isn't safe.
Let's just carry on because I didn't realize that the title of this video
was a guide to the last Jedi of her Star War for the Star Wars fan base.
This is a guide to how to write things terribly.
He's just copied other people's work anyway.
All these arguments are just reformed from other places.
I've seen these a million times over.
It's just a collection of all of them put into one video.
And somehow it apparently works.
Even though you got all those snipes in there, too, by the way,
like you'd have to be stupid not to know the thing.
You have to not be paying attention to not know the thing like.
Yeah, I only misrepresents several movies
that came before misrepresents an article to make this information
that gets in the way.
We still haven't talked about Kanto bite, God damn it.
Is he going to? We only have 10 minutes left.
Well, that's a lifetime in effect. Yes.
But failure is not a license to withdraw and stop trying.
Still looking to the horizon.
Never here.
But the need in front of your nose.
Luke still has an obligation to pass on what he knows
and to fulfill the need the universe has of him.
I can't be what she needs me to be.
He realizes that the answer is to be who she needs him to be.
Oh, oh, well, right.
I would have never guessed.
All right. All right.
And so he does what he said he couldn't.
I'm going to walk out with a laser sword and face down the hole.
Why would you say that?
You didn't face them. That's not facing them.
You're not even there.
That's putting a laptop screen in front of them
and activating Skype and being like, hey, come on.
I face the whole first order.
No, you didn't.
Well, you faced them in a like in the sense of he is facing them
like directionally and people and people think that he did.
Right. The leggings spread.
Remember our little kids playing with the toys.
They think he did it.
So they're they're friends.
He lied to the world.
Isn't that great? OK.
It's like there's like no way you can spit this where it turns good.
It's like it's always terrible.
Because that's what the Luke they believe in would do.
He's using his old life.
Why wouldn't he just show?
OK, so why wouldn't he just show up and say, no, no, no, I'm only one guy
and I'm an old guy, so I can't like do everything.
But I can certainly help you out.
I can offer my advice and I can, you know,
help to fight against the force users and stuff like that.
But I can't single handedly win this.
Why didn't why didn't Luke just show up and say that?
It's like, no, I'll definitely help.
You just have the wrong impressions of what I'm capable of.
I'd also like to highlight that if you if you're sitting next to him
at this point in the film where she offers the lightsaber and he's like, no.
And you go, hey, Luke, why didn't why didn't you do that?
And he's like, she wants me to be this, this hero that can knock out
like an army of 80, 80s or whatever.
She thinks I can just win this war. It's crazy.
You're like, no, I think she just I think she just wants you to try and help.
Could you do that?
And then he's like, no.
Can't because, you know, reasons just can't.
Like, oh, oh, well, you know, just turning up and being like, hey,
what's happening, guys?
And going on missions to try and make things better.
No, that's all out of it because he can't what?
Be the hero that everyone expects him to be.
OK, I guess I guess to Luke, it's more important that he
disappoints them completely than just disappoints them a little bit.
Yeah, better to be nothing than to fail at being incredible.
But then you finally decide at the end of the film, it's OK to fail.
Yeah, I guess you think he may have known that already, but no, no.
Someone said the force. Ray Googled it.
The hero's sword that he's been refusing because now he accepts that role again.
It's also the sword that rejected Kylo Ren reject Kylo.
Sword rejected him.
Yeah, it's the lights.
It does. It doesn't it doesn't think it's an animal.
Dude, as it flows past Kylo, it has like little hands that come out,
push you away like, yeah, yeah, I want to go.
It's not fucking Stormbringer.
It's a regular ass lightsaber.
It just like spits on him as it goes.
Fuck, you know, just as it as it flies past its head,
it just activates and chops his head in half.
OK, so like the lightsabers get names now and they're like pets
and they make decisions on who they're loyal to.
They're not just I mean, they're just extensions of the force rags
and the force controls everything.
It literally controls who wins and loses.
All right.
It's great. Yeah, it's great.
It belongs to me.
It doesn't. And Luke is rubbing his face in it.
He even presents himself exactly as Kylo Ren last saw him.
What? All that Ben has wanted to do from the start
is kill Luke just like Vader killed Obi-Wan.
I want that map.
Yeah, no, that's clear.
The motivation is that he thinks that like Luke is the reason
that everything went to shit, right?
In his memory, he sees Luke as this monster that tried to murder him.
I don't know how in Kylo's head that justifies him
murdering a bunch of innocent people.
But that is his motivation to try and find and kill Luke.
OK, I just want to highlight, by the way,
I think we mentioned this earlier, just the whole Luke being like,
kind of be like, you're here to save my soul.
It looks like no.
Luke, you're maybe maybe don't do it that way.
I get this guy is the reason why you locked yourself away on an island
and cut yourself off from the four.
You think, quote unquote, meeting him like this would be like a big deal
because you're not treating it like it's a big deal.
In fact, you kind of treat it like three times is sort of like a joke.
What a pity his anger is his biggest weakness and exploits it
not just to buy time, but as a final lesson
for the second film in a row, Kylo is left knowing that this path has ruined him.
Yes, almost like he just keeps flip flop and doesn't really know what he's doing.
Crazy. The poor guy.
Look, look how much it upset him to see his ex ex mother's father's ex-girlfriend.
Yeah. He was like, man, why is this here?
His ex mother.
My brain's clearly not realizing the connection.
They are just like ex mother. That makes sense.
Luke is saving the resistance on a literal level, but he's also time.
No, he's not. What do you mean?
There wasn't a way out until Ray made one.
Yeah, Ray's saved him.
And he didn't tell anyone about that, including Ray,
because he probably didn't know himself.
So he was just pretty much just like, oh, I hope you figure something out.
A meme repository just said the dice rejected him, too.
The dice spit on him.
He's like, stop it. Why is there to keep doing this?
Comes together.
He understands that erasing the history of the Jedi won't serve future generations,
that the lessons of their failures will only help Ray forge that new path.
He's accepted that his hero myth is more important to the galaxy
than anything else he can give.
Yeah, it's pretty crazy that he didn't have these conclusions already.
It's like he got drove into this position arbitrarily and insane.
No, it's just through insane means.
I don't know. It's it's like having all these great realizations
that the Jedi aren't all bad.
They can be inspiring like in all these other things.
You're just like, wait, why wasn't this the status quo?
Why why did we why weren't we here already?
That it doesn't really matter if he is that hero or not.
It's been shown how do you think the myth happened?
By him doing heroic things like this.
He kind of goes back to what we said before.
Why would it's like it's it's not even really about the myth part.
Luke should want to do what's right.
He should want to save his sister.
But the Jedi were stopped.
Like, if anything, for no reason, other than he loves Leia
and wants to protect his sister, that he should like get his rear and gear and do stuff.
The Force can be draining.
I can't. They're not doing this.
The effort would kill you.
Luke knows he won't survive this, but that his legend will.
When the resistance fails on the spark of hope dies.
Luke becomes the spark.
Oh, could it would have been if they like escaped just as he was heading outside
and like there was no story because they're just like, I don't really know what he did.
We just left.
Yeah, it's like, yeah, we left and I never saw him again.
I guess he died.
But even even if they did, I still find it ridiculous.
The any of them could actually know what even happened.
It's weird.
He just walked down there. I don't know.
But that's what the First Order would say.
We killed Luke Skywalker.
Yeah, that that's what would be the accepted story in the galaxy.
The moral objective is that of saving a people or saving a person or saving an idea.
Something that he just didn't want to do in the time between this film
and when he tried to bid a Kylo for no reason.
Weird.
I love how this is all these arguments about how he's like totally in character
and it's like, what about all that other stuff?
And it's like, well, that was because.
He is sacrificing himself for us.
Look, the two sons, do you see?
That means it's good.
Two sons, two sons.
Yeah, this is this poet.
It rhymes.
Yeah, I think that's the morality of it.
Only that's where it ends.
We're at half an hour. We're nearly there.
Ranks, we nearly did it.
At the end of the film, we can see the impact of Luke's decision.
No. Yeah, it is baffling.
It is fucking baffling.
How would this be the story to tell, as opposed to Luke,
who went up all the way to the center of the Death Star or whatever and fought
Vader himself, defeated him and then stood up to the emperor
instead of just like, I don't know, like this weird story
where he teleported to an island that he wasn't actually on.
Sorry, not an island, a planet.
And then something happened.
Not really sure he disappeared.
It was weird.
Hmm. Question mark.
And like I said, God forbid the stormtrooper side of the story comes out.
Yeah. How did these kids learn about this through who?
Who told them 20 people on there's 20 people on a ship
versus the first in their propaganda.
They put it on the website of Jedi or whatever. OK.
I would love to ask somebody like, how did these kids learn about that?
Do tell Leia made a message.
She sent it out to everybody.
It. Hmm. Yeah, it makes sense.
Not long after the battle, the kids are reenacting what happened on crate.
Oh, that must be depressing.
Generation Hope.
And because Star Wars fans fall over themselves to willfully misinterpret
everything in the most literal way possible,
people thought this was about setting up a broom boy trilogy.
You know, it's about wearing Johnson's broom boy sock as Disney.
Why couldn't why can't it be this?
Why can't it be that he's going to be in a film later?
I'm pretty sure that we do.
Jenny Nicholson did this tweet recently.
So as far as I understood it, the issue with broom boy
is that everyone's fucking annoyed that the the inspiration
for the galaxy is coming from this weird story where Luke teleported
and then disappeared on a planet, as opposed to all the other stuff that he did.
That's just the exact.
Yeah, as opposed to this, the original trilogy of events
po destroying the star killer base.
Like that happened a few days ago and apparently
this is more important.
This is more meaningful.
It's like, how come they're not idolizing Poe as the galactic hero of the of this war?
Why Luke like Poe did these things a few days ago, essentially?
Yeah, I mean, surely Poe's story would actually be way more impressive.
Way more impressive.
He's not even a Jedi.
Yeah, the machine that destroyed five planets Poe Dameron was able to destroy.
Okay.
And the idea that there were people saying, like,
he's clearly broom boy trilogy coming up.
It's like, I mean, it could happen.
Yeah, it's not unreasonable.
It's just a kid setting up a broom boy trilogy.
New hints about wearing Johnson's broom boy.
So as Disney canceled broom boy.
Ten reasons the broom boy trilogy is going to fail.
Most youtubers I've seen ignore the mythology
and totally missed the point as a result.
They ignored the mythology.
God. Oh my goodness.
You missed the movies.
How many times you misrepresented science?
How many times you're going to tell us that we're the ones that ignore the mythology?
Fuck you.
What a crime.
What a terrible youtuber.
I'm sorry. I know I'm terrible, too.
But Christ, from one terrible person to another, you suck.
Like everybody.
Can you believe all these people actually looking at what's in the film
and not extrapolating this to some crazy myth or message or theme?
They're actually going by what their eyes saw.
What a bunch of losers.
They didn't reference the law at all.
Sorry, the myth.
The law would have made some sense, not referencing the myth itself.
That's their flaw. The fucking idiots.
So it was a lot of weird shit going on.
It was bizarre.
This didn't seem like a single vision.
This seemed like the vision of producers who were making a property for money
because they acquired it.
So it's the weird idea of an eccentric filmmaker
and the corporate committee project.
The fact that they reuse the music to just string it to pluck those heartstrings.
You really think that's not like completely motivated by being like,
remember the OT, remember it, pay for this movie.
Does he think that if Disney knew that this would do this,
if they knew ahead of time that if Rian Johnson goes ahead with this,
it would split the fan base this way in the next Star Wars film,
they released would lose money.
Do you think they still give him the green light on every do you think they do that?
Yeah, for clarification, they want the thing that will please the most
and make the most money.
I think we'd all agree on that when they hand it off to a director slash writer.
They're they're gambling, which is fine.
I'm not saying that's a bad thing.
It's just that this guy, he had his own ideas.
Not to mention, he's still trying to appeal to like absolutely money.
Of course, he wants to make money.
Like, I'm not going to say it's 100 percent soulless.
I think Ryan was trying to achieve something somewhere that he would consider meaningful.
I just don't think that he achieved it.
I think he failed miserably.
But the idea that, you know, Disney being the fucking patent IP holders,
of course, they're going to there's not just not just Ryan's involved.
Right. A shit ton of people.
Lots of them ticking boxes that mean it should do X, Y and Z money wise.
Why do you think Palpatine is in the next film?
Oh, because of the creative storytelling.
That's the only reason it's got nothing to do with people being like, holy shit.
Palpatine, man, I don't know Palpatine.
Oh, they acquired it.
So it's the weird idea of an eccentric filmmaker and a corporate committee project.
The Solar's corporate decision would have been to do easy fanservice.
Not all. Why do you keep calling it fanservice for characters
that care about each other to be with each other?
I don't understand. It's baffling.
It's only called they wouldn't have called it fanservice before TLJ came out.
It would have just been the logical progression of events of the film.
It would have been just reasonable stuff that happens.
Like Luke just goes to see Han in a scene.
And this guy's like, fucking fanservice, man.
These two would never speak to each other after the original trilogy. No.
All of this weird shit.
Poe Dameron, he's the only character in this movie with an arc.
All right, let's see.
Puts her past aside in order to move forward as her as the sole heir to the Jedi legacy.
Does she? No, she's she doesn't near the end of the film.
She's still asking about her parents. So, nope.
All right. So let's move to Luke.
Overcomes his failure by resurrecting his legend and saving the goddamn universe.
No, he hasn't saved anything.
I suppose you can call that an arc.
The problem is the beginning.
It's completely arbitrary.
It's been set from nowhere.
It's like almost like saying like A is B at the beginning and it turns into C.
And it's like, yeah, our problem is that A can't be B.
So, you know, so we have we have been
abandoned his escape of the first order and accepts his place as a resistance hero.
I guess you could you could summarize the events of his storyline that way.
It's just that they're all really tis of me.
Yeah, that's how we got there.
That's a huge issue.
I love the answers, the call to adventure on Rose.
OK, discovers her potential.
Her potential is really shit.
Like what a terrible what a worthless person to have with you.
Like, actually, Rose Tico is a worthless person.
You mean she like grew.
She prevented the saving of everyone.
How is that bad? That's pretty impactful.
Oh, if anything, she's counterproductive.
And let's see, Kylo Ren breaks free of Snoke's manipulation
and sets his future on his own path.
And that's not true at all.
He breaks free of Snoke's manipulation and becomes Snoke.
Pretty much.
He keeps going down the exact same path.
He doesn't make his own path.
He just becomes Snoke.
He just replaces Snoke.
That's not true at all.
Wow, this this is this is a really shitty video.
Mr. Plinkett, the Internet's foremost critic of the prequels,
spent the first half of his review struggling to invent platholes.
So you say to yourself, I guess it doesn't really matter
how the first order found the rebel base, right?
But, you know, it adds something.
OK, so the this is he's right.
But right now, what happened is I actually spoke to we are about this as well,
because he did the same thing at the beginning of T.L.J.
The first order show up.
Now, some people were like, hey, what the fuck?
How did they find them? That's bullshit.
The base that they're on at the beginning of T.L.J.
is the same base they were on in TFA, which was the base
that was about to get fired at by the Starkiller base.
And they'd found it in Stark in TFA.
There's a scene where Hux just walks in the room and says, we have found them.
So naturally, they know where that base is.
Now agreed. He's right.
This is a mistake with Plinkett and any of his reviews.
So that is less than one percent of their points are now invalid.
Mm hmm. All right.
What else you got?
Because he just said he's inventing platholes.
That's what about all the other actual plot.
I was going to say a bit of a harsh interpretation, right?
I'm happy for you to have that interpretation.
Instead of it being a mistake he made.
You're saying like you look at him, he's inventing platholes.
But I'm curious now if you're going to talk about all the ones you got right
or not. I don't know. Yeah.
You mean the guy who deliberately leaves things out
to support his arguments might only focus on the things
that will support his arguments?
I am certain he's going to clarify his position and say that Plinkett
did highlight some platholes that were relevant and accurate.
And he just made a mistake with this one.
I'm sure that's what he's going to do.
Oh, I definitely.
I guess it doesn't really matter how the First Order found the rebel base, right?
But, you know, it adds something.
That was in the last movie.
We have their location.
We track their reconnaissance ship to the.
Yeah, he's right.
Why are they even bothering chasing down an elderly lady
and all of her friends?
The fuck are they going to do?
They did just blow up their incredibly important weapon.
You might remember it as a little thing.
Yeah. So what Plinkett is getting at is that if they're this all powerful,
huge force that can like spread across the galaxy,
why are they chasing this small selection of people?
Like surely they've got shit, tons of enemies to deal with.
Like an empire to run the galaxy to conquer those part of the confusion.
It's like, shouldn't they be like Snoke is literally here
and he's got like what seems to be his entire fleet.
Like, what are they doing?
They're just chasing these guys like, OK, just let a Star Destroyer do it.
I guess. Yeah, sure.
You Star Destroyer A and B destroy them.
The rest of our fucking massive millions and millions strong army.
We're going to start going to planets and stuff
and like establishing dominance in the galaxy.
It's strange that they have so many people go after them like this.
I don't I don't think it's valid to say this is a completely relevant point.
I think there's a conversation to be had.
Think of the climax of a fucking film.
But this is the important part.
If you add an echo effect, it makes you more.
It was funnier. He's funny.
But the last time we saw Luke
and here's how the film should have ended.
Join me.
I agree.
You probably noticed that Titanic didn't end after hitting the ice based
on a real event, you retard.
Titanic's not a trilogy. You can't.
It isn't the trilogy.
Tells a completely different way.
How do you compare these two like that?
What in every sense of context?
That is a completely different story.
Imagine comparing fucking Titanic to Star Wars.
How do you do that?
How do you say the ending of the second film should be representative
of the end of a singular film?
Also, I mean, how is it even a counter?
If someone says I and I think this is probably in the realm of the subjective
where the film should have ended at this offer and then the silence is like,
that would have been a pretty nifty little cliffhanger.
I mean, it would be nifty.
Or we all know Ray would have said no, but it would have been a nifty little idea,
you know, because for starters, it would.
Maybe give them a reason to not have Crete be a thing.
And Crete is a disaster on every level.
Genuinely, though, I wouldn't have gone.
Yeah, if if Titanic was a trilogy, I could totally picture the end
of the second Titanic film being when the iceberg hits. Absolutely.
The first episode, it establishes why everyone
why are they going to where they're why are they going to America?
Why are these characters interacting with one another?
What are their motivations?
What are their relationships with one another?
You continue that and to the second film where things are starting to break down
and maybe you've got some interpersonal dialogue that insists that, no,
maybe relationships are breaking up and whatnot.
And then boom, all of a sudden iceberg hits.
And then, you know, you have a whole movie to devote to how all of these characters
deal with this tragedy and it's after.
I think it'd be pretty interesting, actually.
I think it would be, too.
We could even be due for a new interpretation of Titanic.
And it could be a trilogy mini series.
Why not? Your point is hilarious.
I love it. You know what?
Why the hell did they end Empire Strikes Back where they did?
Do they know nothing about how Titanic didn't end?
What? Yes. What fools.
So now, so like, are they saying that ending any middle thing on a cliffhanger
is bad because Titanic?
I can't actually express how titanically stupid this point is.
It's fucking dumb.
That should have been the last time we saw Luke.
And here's how the film should have ended.
Join me.
You probably noticed that Titanic didn't end after hitting the iceberg.
When Seven Samurai didn't end, when the bandits arrived at the village.
It's not a trap. It's not a trilogy.
You cut. It doesn't work this way.
Because we know there's going to be another movie in a few years
to resolve all of this stuff.
It's a cliffhanger to keep us interested.
And it makes sense in the universe.
It doesn't break any temporal rules in the Star Wars universe
to have a break between movies here.
What is he getting at?
What's his point?
Before resolving the threads you just spent two hours building up
is a terrible idea.
Someone could only suggest this if they didn't even know those threads are there.
I was like, oh, yeah, it worked really well the way they did it.
There you go.
Yeah, I think you only knocked it out of the park.
Blink only suggested it because he wasn't even aware of the plot threads
that were actually in the film.
I just love all these like bitter stabs.
Yeah. Why don't you like T.L.J?
Yeah. Yeah.
You just don't understand films.
You don't get how stories work.
You don't like themes.
You aren't smart enough to understand.
I'm going to put that in.
Actually, he was wrong and here's why.
People who like cliffhangers
probably didn't know that Titanic
didn't end with the iceberg hitting the boat.
The super chat's really good.
Infinity War ended on a massive cliffhanger and in-game hype
saying, well, yeah, well, maybe it shouldn't have because Titanic.
With the Russo, did the Russo scene Titanic?
I don't think so. I don't think they're.
I don't think they have.
If they had seen Titanic, they would have known to not end up saying cliffhanger.
Terrible point.
Two hours building up is a terrible idea.
Someone could only suggest this if they didn't even know those threads are there.
Who the fuck knows what's going on?
People only seem to think about. Yeah.
Who the fuck does know what's going on?
After you after 32 minutes of your guide,
I'm still confused as to what the fuck was going on in T.L.J.
The film in terms of how much they hate it.
They'll make fun of Leah flying through.
Yeah, yeah, it was it looked ridiculous.
A little R2-D2-3 today.
Your space or point out an extra in the background
that isn't doing what they should be.
Yeah, because it's terrible choreography.
Yeah, I don't really care if this is on someone's.
Firing this laser would have won the war.
Yeah, but they didn't have any motivation to shoot an empty pod.
Yeah, they literally thought that it was empty.
So why would they waste ammo on it?
That's just why I do it.
It's like shooting fire.
It's like there's no reason.
Yeah, like why they had already shot at the ship.
So it stood to reason that they would believe
that there was a malfunction in one of the escape pods.
And this and this is a dumb rabbit hole.
Anyway, this isn't The Last Jedi.
It's the other movie we're not talking about.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is called Whataboutism.
They've got to.
They've got to be like, oh, yeah.
Well, this other thing bad in this other place in this other time,
this movie from 30 years ago, that's not very good.
My goodness.
You murdered this innocent person.
Yeah, well, murderers have killed people plenty over time.
Oh, OK.
And if anything is like, don't you think we shouldn't make mistakes
that they made back then?
What's the point here that it's OK to continue making mistakes?
Like, what's the point?
What are you trying to get at?
You're just hating.
You guys are just hating.
Yes. It's a big sickle joke.
Something.
A list of forbidden last Jedi defenses.
It's true.
An entire legion of my best.
Yes, because people usually defend this part of the OT.
People are often saying that the Ewok attack of the Stormtroopers
made complete sense and we ever loved it.
It's not like the sixth film is often considered the worst of the three.
All of that is invented.
Truth awaits nothing.
Rogue One seems to be more what most people meant
when they said they wanted movies like the originals again.
Movies that remind us of the originals that look like the originals,
but not movies that are actually written like them.
We've got Star Wars exactly where we want it.
Don't fuck with it.
Show us the stuff we've seen before, doing the stuff we've seen before.
I don't know. Is he aware that a lot of people don't like Rogue One?
What? Yeah, a lot of people.
I don't really like it.
I think it's fine, mostly.
I get it. I'm not a huge fan.
I get it. This is weird.
He's like. And again, this isn't the whole thing.
Like you can't change anything or you can't add things to it.
You just respect the old shit.
He's appealed to Plinkett being wrong.
Plinkett, plus the half of the bad guys.
Like they spearheaded how bad Rogue One was.
They made loads of videos.
They had to they had to respond to their fan base with additional videos
trying to explain why Rogue One's bad because they got such backlash.
I just like, come on, man.
Come on, we're going to be consistent here.
Also, yeah, he did.
I'm assuming he's not going to now,
but he didn't mention how much Plinkett got right in terms of plot holes.
He just said that he invented them.
And how many examples did he come up with? Was it one?
Yeah. And what? How long was that?
Does that remind you of anybody?
Like, oh, was it Quinton Reviews saying, look at the stuff
Morla complains about in his five hour review?
And then I talk about a piece of dialogue and he's like, see?
Craziness. So it is.
So Plinkett, The Last Jedi Review is a 58 minute, 58 minutes.
You found one minor thing and one thing that still holds up, quite frankly.
So. And so.
58 minutes. Yeah.
A bit disappointing, but there we are.
Yeah. Or no one gets hurt.
Yeah, because nobody was saying the lair looked like porcelain
and the Grand Moff talking was terrifying and uncanny valley.
Nobody was saying that.
Everyone loved it.
Being a hypocrite about this, since I nitpick things all the time.
It's what YouTube is for.
But when I dislike something, I make a genuine effort
to understand why it turned out that way.
Did you? OK. Hmm.
Is there some kind of appeal I'm missing?
Am I seeing it? Yeah, sure, that's cool.
Yeah. Practically, nothing is complete.
I don't think any I don't think anyone has ever said that all of the changes
are terrible in the news.
It's got to be. Yeah, I've heard that.
I think even the people who hate everything about it
would probably concede that there was some stuff they thought was fine.
Oh, look, it's but you guys.
Oh, we'll tell you what, I need to use the lube.
So I'll be back. All right.
Look, everyone, it's Robot Head, Mauler and Vito.
We're all here.
And I'm sure we're going to get something disparaging said about us in a moment.
How exciting.
Ah, always fun.
Also, we started really early with this one, right?
And we're nearly six hours.
What is the longest time we spent on a video?
But in fairness, the video is 40 minutes or almost.
Yeah. Man, I'm glad it's almost kind of.
It cozy, not cozy.
What's the word I'm trying to look for?
It's it's fun that two years later
to see that TLJ fans are just as stupid as they were
two years ago, making the same fucking arguments to.
You're all bad.
We're almost done, at least.
Almost there getting there.
Wow, that was the quickest piece I've ever seen from all sides.
Well, you were gone for only like 20 seconds.
It's pretty quick.
I just went and did my business and wiped my hands and came back.
I mean, hey, check it out.
Jacob's Quest said I've never come across a plot hole in TLJ
that hasn't been directly explained in the movie itself or a piece of material
that has existed for years.
OK, disappearing knife on Ray.
Done, we can move on now. All right.
Practically, nothing is completely bad and devoid of value,
except for your situations like this.
Separate good criticism from bad.
Oh, get fucked, Vito. Bad criticism.
Yeah, it's only 95 percent bad, not 100.
You will know when you are calm at peace.
I didn't really like The Last Jedi when leaving the theater.
It's like the second and third act of a trilogy wedged together.
And with Disney rushing the films out in just two years,
it's inevitable that a movie this ambitious will turn out uneven.
I don't think anyone finds the canto bite stuff
as interesting as Luke and Ray's story.
Oh, that cuts off people's hands.
It's finally talking about canto bite.
Thank goodness. Yay.
I thought the movie was funny, but they may have gone too far in a few places.
Oh, my goodness. He's actually making some.
He's conceding some things. Thank God.
Well, he just didn't understand the themes of canto bite.
So there are a few details I wish I could change,
like Rose smashing into Finn with enough force to kill them both.
I like that that doesn't destroy any of it for him.
He's like, no, it's fine.
They were just lucky. It's fine.
Oh, and by the way, on this pause, can you see what looks?
It looks like guns. Looks like the potential for a gunner there.
You see that? It looks like some kind of.
Maybe you don't have the same screenshot as me,
but it looks like there could be a gun on that ship that there was
actually lasers on the ships that were driving on crate.
Maybe I don't. Maybe, maybe.
But I didn't rush to judge it.
The more I thought about it, the richer I realized the storytelling was.
And yet the more we think about it, the fucking more thinner and puddlier it becomes.
Weird how that works.
Almost like there's one side that does think about it and another that doesn't.
What are you? How could you say how he was the one who said
that we need to pay more attention?
OK, so maybe you're wrong. OK, peace.
And the fault started to seem comparatively petty.
And when listening to Ryan Johnson talk about it,
everything I was thinking lined up perfectly.
Oh, so it was exactly what you thought it was, I guess.
Also, what do you know?
Do you remember the quote from Ryan was like,
have you heard the criticism that even fair now?
Well, I studied all the religions and it just so happens
the one that I was born with is completely correct one.
I like it because it's what Ryan Johnson said it was,
and I guess I was right as we have.
Remember when Major Lee says confirmation bias?
Yeah, Major Lee said to us that like in his video, right?
He said like everybody sucks because they're all making their own little
specific things they wanted out of TLJ and they didn't get it.
And then he said in his own video that he wanted Ray's parents to be nobody
and that he was really happy that he turned out to be right.
And it was like, wait, do you say they're all just upset
because they would they didn't get what they wanted?
It's like, but you that was what you wanted.
You got is just as arbitrary as that.
It's like, no, really well done.
And poor guy.
She's going to be Emperor Palpatine's daughter, granddaughter in the new one.
She's going to be nobody at all.
It's going to be like the most somebody you can possibly get.
Well, guy.
If he brings the Jedi back into this, then the Sith are going to rise up again.
And the whole thing is going to start again.
And it's just going to be Sith are currently risen up, you dumbass.
What a risk by planets in the last movie, they destroyed five planets, by the way.
I don't know if you were there.
I don't know if you like watched any of the source material.
Imagine this, just this group of people going around house by house,
gunning people down and I'm like, Rags, can you team up with me
to try and shoot back at them?
And then you go, well, if we do that, what if more bad guys show up?
I'm like, uh, yeah, it's a good point.
I never thought of it.
I guess we'll let everyone die.
I don't know. I guess we'll just die.
Wouldn't want to help contribute.
That's the important thing.
If he brings the Jedi back into this, then the Sith are going to rise up again.
And the whole thing is going to start again.
And it's just that's retarded.
How come the interviewer didn't slap you?
I really wish you were there as the interviewer.
He finishes that sentiment.
And you're like, that's retarded.
It's retarded.
Well, you don't understand the fucking force Rags, OK?
One of the people who hates this movie, nothing I've said has changed your mind.
And that's fine.
I understand a lot of the complaints and even share a few of them.
Hey, I get that not everyone is as forgiving as I am.
Hey, get it?
Because that's a Vader reference.
All right.
But if you take anything from this, it's to take it down a notch.
The backlash is originating from a place of love for the series.
But I don't think fans realize how vicious and hateful it gets when it all pulls together.
I don't care the kind of shit that we've been called.
Like, I want you to understand we have been called Nazis because we don't like this stupid fucking movie.
We've also been accused of harassing Kelly Marie Tran off of social media,
even though we literally never did that.
Three of us personally have been called misogynists.
I've had somebody who desires to kill me personally.
They've said they're desperate.
I will not take it down a notch.
Absolutely not.
They clarified that they simply want me to disappear.
They don't want to kill me.
After literally saying I want to kill Mauler because he doesn't like The Last Jedi,
the people who like this movie are literally mentally insane.
Well, this is the thing I would say this fucking crazy people all over the place to try and be like,
hey, guys who don't like TLJ, calm down.
It's like, no, it's the people who don't like it who should calm down is like, sure thing.
Have you seen the psychopaths on your side wrapped in an alternate universe with The Last Jedi
wasn't a critical and commercial success where Ryan Johnson hasn't continued to have a great career?
What do you think that means?
Michael Bay's got a successful career after like a billion Transformers movies.
Does that mean what does that mean to you?
Yeah, I don't give a shit about Ryan Johnson.
I don't think Tommy Wiseau is successful.
He made three in a successful ever made.
It doesn't matter.
Money means absolutely fucking nothing.
And where everyone hates the film as much as they do in that echo chamber, Mark Hamill supposedly hates the movie
and Ryan Johnson over his initial disagreement on.
No, I'm not going to claim he hates the movie and he hates Ryan Johnson.
I'm going to say he's made several very interesting and downright substantive criticisms of the film.
That's that's my take.
And I also more cast members coming out and saying the same as days go by.
Who knows what's going to happen in the future?
People tried to harass John Boyega for misinterpreting a quote he made recently about social media
because Kelly Marie Tran, who to this day has never confirmed that she left social media over harassment.
Yeah, all because of that, they tried to harass John Boyega for like saying,
if you're not strong enough to be on social media, then don't be on social media.
I mean, like you just shouldn't be on social media like that's just my advice.
Just fucking stay away.
It's partly why I'm leaving.
I can't take it anymore.
Luke, they don't mention this part.
Having seen the movie, I was wrong.
He's always right.
He's always right.
But he was always right.
I'm firmly.
Do you like how he cut the whole I was wrong?
So what was he referencing specifically about being wrong about?
Yeah.
And I find that very curious that, like,
how do how do we separate out which statement would be the one that he's more behind if he literally had two conflicting statements?
Yeah, because we have that.
It has a which one's real.
The one that supports you are like, OK, it's very convenient.
And we have to take in the the fact that typically speaking, they're not encouraged to be critical of the movies they're a part of.
So him speaking out like that pretty big. Yeah.
And Ryan's toes, the line, he even called it an all time great film.
Doesn't sound like that narrative pans out.
It's often said that the sequel trilogy had no.
You should look into all of the clips regarding Mark Hamill's position on T.L.J.
No plan and that Ryan Johnson ruined everything J.J. Abrams set up like J.J.
shot himself in the foot.
Ryan then took the gun and shot J.J. in the head.
So you could call that ruining it.
He could have taken him to the hospital, could have put him in a wheelchair and helped him out.
But no. I know I've I've heard people say that it ruined TFA.
I'd like to think about it because I think that if you.
Have if you're dealing with TFA, it's tough.
Biggest problem being world building.
But I think that you can actually make a sequel to TFA that makes TFA worthwhile in a trilogy, if you know what I mean.
I mean, that's the whole reason we bothered watching season eight of Game of Thrones.
We were waiting for an ending that would have made the bad seasons worth it pretty much.
There's always some repairs you can do.
I'm not saying it was possible to like make a great trilogy when you have a start like TFA.
But once you get the middle being T.L.J., they.
I just want to also say I saw recently that D&D are going to be adapting an HP Lovecraft.
Yeah. But yet Guillermo del Toro, who's been begging for years to be allowed to do
and at the Mountains of Madness movie, he's literally the first thing I would have for life.
I would not. I would literally not pick anybody else.
I can't think of anyone else who could do a Lovecraft movie better than del Toro.
And he's been denied it again and again and again.
But D&D are going to get it.
Are you guys excited to see D&D's take on Lovecraft?
Sure. We all are. Great job.
Mm hmm. Time, great film.
Doesn't sound like that narrative pans out.
It's often said that the sequel trilogy had no plan and that Ryan Johnson ruined everything.
J.J. Abrams didn't have a plan, but there was an arc set for the trilogy.
No, there wasn't. J.J. said he loved Ryan's script.
Well, there was the quote from Daisy saying that there was notes that Ryan ignored.
But that's not really it. No, no, I agree.
I'm just saying that if, you know, Rags creates the first of a trilogy and desperately asks me to continue it,
he has notes. It's not like I'm going to be like, fuck you, Rags.
I'm going to make my own film.
It just seems like a stupid decision anyway, because we're like, oh, it's probably going to be confused if you just do your own thing.
Might just give the note to Ganda. That's all I'm saying.
Script so much he was jealous he didn't make it himself, that the film didn't disrupt the ending he planned
and that he was inspired by The Last Jedi to be bold.
Is this up to date with what else J.J. has said about the film?
Hasn't he come out recently with something like really damning about TLJ or at least partially damning?
It's almost like Twitter was on fire about it for days.
These people are they're just two sided all the time.
They talk about this and it's, oh, it's great. Oh, so much. Oh, it's great.
Oh, it's not so much. That's great.
No, it's not so much with his final film.
I've seen claims that it only has good reviews because Disney bribed everyone.
No, I don't need that to be the truth.
I think that most critics are terrible. Yeah, they have no standards at all.
They just flip flop around going, yeah, this film's cool. This one's cool.
Yeah, Rotten Tomatoes critics say that Batwoman is better than Joker.
Yeah, they can go fuck themselves to take them seriously at all.
When in reality, it's the audience reviews that are dubious because of the review bombing.
Oh, my God, it's not a bunch of this is the thing I really hate.
Like they don't understand what a review bomb actually fucking is.
No, a bunch of people were mad because the movie sucked and they gave it a bad review.
It's not a review bomb.
You unintelligent simpleton.
It's also no more force.
Yeah, I'm fine with that down with Disney.
Sure. Give us legends. Yeah, sure.
What does this have to do with The Last Jedi?
I also want to say bold claim, bold of you to say we shouldn't trust the audience.
We should trust the critics reviews.
It's like, oh, I mean, it's not that I say we should trust the audience at all.
It's just judging on its own merits.
But to say, no, the professional critics, they're the ones you're going to get right.
And I'm like, there you go.
That was, I guess, part of JJ's quote.
I don't know if Star Wars fans go into the movies to be told
that this doesn't matter in reference to TLJ.
I don't think anyone who has any standards for writing goes into any kind of story
being told this doesn't matter or wanting to be told it doesn't matter.
The absolute rock bottom of the fan base.
No, we absolutely no confirmation of this at all.
Doesn't even matter if it was true.
People get driven off social media for all kinds of reasons, all the time,
in all different ways, just because it happened to her
it does not mean that suddenly people who don't like TLJ are assholes.
Kelly Marie Tran is a shit actress, by the way.
I just wanted to say that.
It's targeted Kelly Marie Tran with racist and sexist harassment until she
abandoned Xingqiang Wingtong.
What?
Sometimes you put that in a Wikipedia page.
Xingqiang Wingtong is a dumbass.
Really?
Hold on.
This is a stupid autistic and retarded love interest of it.
She better die in the coma because she's a dumbass.
What the fuck?
Where is this?
I wouldn't see this.
I guess it might not be up anymore, but this is apparently on her Wikipedia page.
Oh my God.
Are you saying that on the video?
Because I'm only.
Oh, shit.
Sorry, let's drag it back.
The absolute rock bottom of the fan base targeted Kelly Marie Tran with racist and sexist harassment.
Do you see that?
Xingqiang Wingtong is a stupid autistic and retarded love interest for it.
She better die in the coma because she's a dumbass.
I love her quote.
What's her quote? Where is it?
Hail Hitler and I don't know why I was casted in a good movie.
Hail Hitler!
Biographical information, homeworld, Xingqiang, China, born, born, Xingqiang, 0, 0, 0, 0.
Quiet, homeworld, Xingqiang, that's so shit.
Oh my God.
How do you point to this and go like, look at this racist harassment?
I just be like, what is this?
Oh my God.
That's hilarious.
Alright, where's the lie?
Oh man, that's hilarious.
Whoever did this is a true meme warrior.
I salute you, sir.
Wingtong.
Oh my God.
Rasped until she abandoned Instagram.
Someone's responding to diversity negatively.
Fuck.
You know what, I agree, Rian Johnson, and I think it's about, let's see, I think it's
about time that Robert Downey Jr. plays the Martin Luther King biopic that we've always
needed.
And quite frankly, if you respond to diversity negatively, then fuck you, Rian Johnson.
How do I get dealt this?
Xingqiang, Wingtong was the worst character in Star Wars history.
Oh man.
I was like, I can't wait.
No, we're going to call you racist when you do.
No, I mean, I'll say Xingqiang, Wingtong, and I'll show Jar Jar Binks or something.
I'll still call you racist.
How do I do it in a not racist way?
Show, show, who are the Asian stereotypes from the prequels who had, like, nemo-deans?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The new nemo-deans?
Yeah, there you go.
You could say, well, George did it first.
When I say Xingqiang, Wingtong is the worst character, should I show them?
Yeah.
That's all you're saying.
I'm super racist.
I'll get 17 points of racism, but it'll be worth it to reference this stream.
He left social media altogether.
Jar Jar's actor Ahmed Betts contemplated suicide after the backlash to his character.
George Lucas posed the question, why would I want to make any more films when everyone
yells at me?
Yeah, I've fiddled these arguments too.
Yeah, I don't care.
Whenever you make something that's big, there will always be people who don't like it.
I don't fucking care.
That's part of doing something and being famous.
I literally do not give a shit.
I don't give a shit.
I don't care.
You have a bajillion million dollars in a mansion.
My ability to sympathize with you is somewhat lessened by mean things people say on the
internet.
Yeah, I guess our mistake, Rags, is not doing a whole stream where the three of us just
keep showing for hours on end, all the horrible things people have said to us, and then we
just leave every single possible social media platform.
Because apparently that's the way to actually be taken seriously by these people, because
it doesn't happen to people unless it's announced.
I really hate this idea that the people who like TLJ didn't harass anyone.
Bullshit.
Even, even though that's what they've been doing with John Boyega and JJ Abram.
This is what I mean.
Do you remember what happened when Luke tweeted out the picture of the original cast together
but old?
If you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He fucking roasted him.
Yeah.
And all he was...
This is so biased, and what actually pisses me off is that I've seen this argument a million
times already, but he's made this video relatively recently.
He should have all of the information, and yet he's still going with the one side.
It's like, nah, it's just the haters, man, just the fucking haters.
Boo.
I hear that I'm a terrible person all the time.
And yeah.
Why would anyone put themselves in the crosshairs of this fanbase?
Oh no, people say mean things about me on the internet.
No, I mean, I don't know.
Okay.
Oh, how can you deal with that?
It's impossible.
Yeah.
Just search Ron Johnson's name and you'll see a never-ending stream of vitriol with
this angry...
Yeah, why do you think people think it's so shit?
Why do you think Rian Johnson in particular seems just like an asshole of a person?
Maybe he said things and done things that just pissed people off.
Maybe saying that to a large group of people will get you some backlash.
Here's my boy.
Uterans twisted into a new way of attacking him, and in spite of that, he's supernaturally
unfazed and positive about the fans, except for all the instances on Twitter where he
attacks the fans.
No.
No.
No.
Or in his new movie, how he made a character specifically mocking the people who don't
like TLJ.
Yeah.
Totally not mad, bro.
No.
Gotcha.
Or that quote from that video he just showed where he was like, yeah, people don't like
diversity, then fuck them.
I know, right?
So if they make a movie retelling the rise of Shaka Zulu in the Zulu Empire, if I don't
see a bunch of Asians and white people and Inuits and Native Americans, then quite frankly,
if you have a problem with that, if there's no black people in it, but there's everyone
else, that's pretty diverse.
And if you don't like it, man, then fuck you, if you say no to diversity.
The ones that aren't racist.
I mean, it was the happiest experience of my life.
Everything, the release of it, the interactions with all the fans, all of it, you know, when
people care this deeply about something, that's what happened.
Yeah.
You can't play this and act like Ryan's a great guy when he tells them to go fuck themselves
all the time on social media.
So we get a compilation of all the tweets of vitriol that Ryan Johnson said.
And you know what this guy's response would be?
Yeah.
Well, he has to deal with a lot of hate.
You're like, oh.
Oh.
Is that how that works?
It's so wonderful.
And I feel very incredibly privileged to have just been a part of it.
I say all of this not to vilify anyone.
Yes, you are.
Fuck off.
He's vilified a lot of people.
Didn't you vilify Plinket not that long ago?
Yeah, sure.
Well, sorry, remember his disclaimer, we're supposed to be having fun, guys.
Aren't you having fun?
Tons of fun.
Comedic.
But to salvage whatever hope there is for you to enjoy this trilogy, the finale is coming
and who knows?
Maybe it will retcon things and blow holes in my eyes.
Oh, no.
We got that shit.
Yeah.
We got that on lockdown.
At least he's aware that the fact that this video is gonna fall apart, it's gonna age
horribly.
Not that it's currently not looking anything other than molding cheese, but hey, you know,
you could always get worse.
Maybe it'll be great.
Maybe it'll disappoint.
Regardless of how it turns out, this is your last chance at this.
Instead of bringing all of the baggage and hostility with.
Let's go see Rise of Skywalker.
No, no.
Let's see Rise of Skywalker to laugh at because of how awful he's going to be.
Humiliate that piece of shit forever, destroying what a great IPO is a part of.
We don't.
I'm sorry.
Why the hell should we respect something that doesn't respect the meteor it's a part of
itself?
Why should it work that way?
We're just at the point right now where I just don't give a shit.
I want it to be terrible so I can just laugh at it and it'll be fun.
About how audiences felt seeing the birth of the series back in 1970s.
And oh, how I'm with them.
Oh, how wonderful it would have been to have seen a new hope in the cinema, especially
in the 70s, man.
How wonderful that would have been better times seven.
Relax your stranglehold and let the filmmaker have Star Wars for a few hours.
Forget about your demands and rule books and go on the journey that they want to take you
on.
Zoom Phil.
Why are you just like, I, why do you not assume that we gave this film a chance?
We watched it.
We analyzed it and it's terrible.
How do you think we found out it was bad?
Of course we gave it a chance.
We wanted it to be good.
I had absolutely no reason to believe going into the movie that it would be anything less
than a good movie.
I still remember seeing the trailer for TLJ and thinking, holy shit, this is going to
be great.
I actually thought that trailer was pretty good.
I watched the trailers repeatedly for quite a while.
Very invested.
Very excited.
And I got shot on.
So it wasn't until I left the theater and got in my car and was driving that I.
I hate a Star Wars movie.
Like even this is me as the prequels were.
I never hated a Star Wars movie before.
This is the first time.
Yeah.
Oh, it was definitely one of those anger started to broil over.
It was pretty bad, but it was like, wait, it's a fucking movie.
And then, you know, you read the leaks and you see the trailers for the Rise of Skywalker.
I'm not going to get tricked again.
That ain't happening.
I'm going to go in with my expectations firmly set on what I've been shown.
Let's go see Rise of Skywalker.
Try to think about how audiences felt seeing the birth of the series back in 1977.
I don't care about relation to Rise of Skywalker.
Yeah, I just don't care.
That literally does not mean anything.
Yeah.
I don't care about next product.
You're racist.
Sorry.
I just don't.
I just don't care.
Filmmaker have Star Wars for a few hours.
Forget about your demands.
I don't want another filmmaker to have Star Wars for a few hours if it's bad.
But it's because of your arbitrary law books that you're not enjoying this movie, guys.
Like if you just dropped that for a second, you could enjoy yourselves, you dicks.
Take you on.
And if you give it that chance and still don't like it, by all means, criticize it.
But do it fairly.
That's what we're doing.
Made by human beings who worked themselves half to death to give you the best.
I don't care how hard they worked.
Oh, my God.
I'm sure the people will actually know after reading The Disaster Artist, I know for a
fact that the people who worked on the room worked very hard to put up with Tommy for
well over a year.
And you know, it's a bad movie.
It's your character saying don't give it like as if as if it's you love a thing.
That's fine.
You hate a thing.
You gave up.
You went you went mad tisms.
Why can't you just appreciate this product for what it is?
Why do you have to be so mean?
Poor Disney.
Find what you have learned, save you again.
That poor billion dollar corporation.
It works so hard to make this sludge.
Why can't you just eat it?
I will.
I promise.
And with that, I've ruined my channel.
Yes, you have.
I mean, it's not a great start.
I'm going to put that for me.
I think he's pretty bad.
He might have some good videos.
I have no idea.
And, you know, just for the sake of it, don't be mean to this person, guys.
He clearly has a very biased view on how it works with harassment.
The last thing you need to do is give him ammo and saying that he faps the harassment
channel, especially with how fucking new policies are going.
I'm sure he's a very nice man.
I think that his arguments are godawful and his evidence is very skewed.
Yeah, pretty, pretty, pretty terrible.
Pretty terrible video.
Definitely on the lower tiers of history.
This was one of the recommended is one of the best.
I want to remind you, guys, that was the same fucking reason that we had to watch
the major leeward.
People were saying that was the best argument video for why it is good.
They're all the fucking same.
That was this is this is terrible, guys.
If you thought this was good, I don't know, say pretty terrible.
Hopefully we've elaborated in excruciating detail why this was a fucking garbage video.
But we're I guess we're pretty much on to top.
Well, I was going to say that he's got 30 seconds, guys.
Let's give him that.
Oh, yeah.
Let's let's say, yeah, that's right.
Let's get that square space added.
Everyone, I'll be in the garbage.
Oh, yeah, we know your videos.
Garbage video game, that's all.
Christmas music.
I mean, this is December.
This is December.
You get a pass, you get a pass on the Christmas music.
We have the reference.
Wolf, we covered.
Was it yes, it's video.
It just ended with Christmas.
We made it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I remember that.
And didn't he say he was like, you know, I don't celebrate Christmas.
I don't care.
It's like, OK, I remember there being a bunch of people in the chat.
They're like, of course, he's a Jew.
Oh, no, that's a race.
They stole everything from me.
You don't know shit about Star Wars.
Basically, but I guess if this is just the end.
Yeah, it's awkward.
And a little odd.
I got to guess there's nothing left to this video.
Three seconds, nearly there.
And we did it and we're done.
Now we can find now we can watch a quality.
We can go back to quality.
But yeah, we did it.
I think that might I feel like that's got to be one of the longest
coverages we've ever had.
We started it.
Were we 20 minutes into the stream and we started?
I feel like it was early.
Was a long one, guys, we did it, though.
I guess the Quentin TRO video will be the record for longest we've ever done.
But probably it only takes us to it only took us six hours.
Yeah. So record timing.
Let me pull up my calculator.
Do you have an official time, official stream time right now?
Six hours and 12 minutes.
All right. Six times.
It's 12, it's three hundred seventy.
I could have done that my head.
I did it in my head faster as a person with a button.
So it's very weird.
So 372 minutes.
And how many minutes were.
Oh, that's all.
Oh, the math works out.
Actually, pretty nicely there.
It's like a little.
Why? What do we do? How do we do?
Oh, well, it's it's almost just about 10 minutes to one minute
in terms of a response.
Now, granted, we had an intro, a little bit of an intro.
But yeah, under let's say about nine and a half, nine minutes to his one minute.
So all right.
So what we have left are two toned videos.
Not too long. A lot of memes.
He's released more than one video.
Well, I've been made aware that what's what's the other channel he has?
Rags, you remember his upward something, I think up.
Upward strike.
Oh, is that it?
I think it's up.
Oh, I was hoping it was going to be an antonym of thrust.
Whatever the opposite of that sort of thrust strike.
Oh, some people that would be like a synonym.
And the video series he's running on there is not successful.
Some people are saying that we should watch the channel trailer for Upward Strike.
But that was made a year ago.
That's not new.
I am outraged.
Oh, but it is to.
Oh, I can.
I just saw in the preview why people might want us to see it.
OK. Oh, all right.
Well, we'll start with that, and then we will go to classic tonals.
OK, so this is a year ago.
Tonal first.
I'm more than excited.
He's a hero.
Tonal, Tonal,
but not the slow strike.
Well, it's a brand new kickass spinoff channel from Downward Thrust
that's going to be featuring a whole bunch of cool videos.
I've got the persona of being quite serious on Downward Thrust.
There you go.
That's the picture, guys.
Oh, we're back home.
We're safe.
I feel so.
So let loose on this channel and just do whatever the fuck I want.
People in this world make too much noise.
Shut up.
Upward Strike is basically going to be my experimentation chamber sanctuary of sorts.
It's my chamber where I can just kind of express myself
however I want.
The Temple of Tonal.
The Temple of Tonal.
This is it.
This is the Temple of Tonal.
This is it.
This is if.
So if you're going to worship, then this channel is the Temple of Tonal.
Where else would be more appropriate to send in your idolization?
I can't believe he actually created a temple specifically for his followers.
That's wonderful.
I really appreciate that.
Amazing.
Tonal.
Amazing of it.
Because although I would love to let loose on downward thrust, we've got a persona to
live up to.
You know, we've got a standard over there.
Upward Strike is also going to be my quote unquote dumping ground.
So this is this is Tonal without standards.
The channel.
Isn't there only full videos on this channel, though?
Tonal Unfiltered.
There's literally full videos.
Apparently this is experimentation hole, plus his dumping ground.
This full video.
Yeah, he hasn't made anything more than.
Yeah, he hasn't made anything in over a year.
It's unfortunate.
She answers the call.
It's four videos I've made for downward thrust.
And I've decided not to put them on the main channel because I wasn't happy with them.
They wouldn't go over well or they just didn't adhere to our mission statements,
which is to create unique and interesting videos that you can't get anywhere else.
He just said they did.
They're not unique or interesting because they didn't manage to reach that that criteria.
Everything you do is unique and interesting.
I mean, don't don't put yourself down, buddy.
You're the best content creator on YouTube.
Literally the best.
Nobody could beat this man.
But here, there's not going to be any standards.
We're just going to go with the flow.
I can't believe he actually takes us.
So join me on Upward Strike.
Make sure to subscribe here for some awesome future free content.
Yes, because I truly care about bringing you the highest quality content and absolutely zero cost.
I care about bringing you the highest quality content with zero cost.
Oh, I love you, man.
You're great. Thank you.
All I ask of you is to watch the small advertisement that will hopefully pop up on our videos
and subscribe here as well as comment on all the videos
saying that I did a great job, even if you didn't think I did a great job.
That would be awesome.
That's all for now.
Actually, what I will say, though, is this one thing before I let you go.
What is it? Fuck cooked carrots.
Oh, my goodness.
Well, my God, I didn't realize you were in.
I had no idea.
Tell me I'll have to give it a try.
Yeah. I need to know.
What are your reasons?
About why I didn't know he had this this whole time.
How long is he harbored this vitriol underneath his skin for carrots?
Cooked carrots are pieces of shit.
Do you prefer them raw?
So I don't there anyone else out there who absolutely fucking hates.
Which end do you like to insert best mushy carrots?
I don't know about you guys,
but when I go to sleep at night and I think about cooked carrots.
And I'm thinking about like dick and video games I've played and shows I've watched.
And I don't know.
I don't think about cooked carrots, man.
I got to write good del quotes before it goes.
Well, we'll say it's good.
Oh, my God.
What is it?
What is it?
No wonder they wanted us to cover this.
Gives me fucking nightmares.
Carrots give him nightmares.
Because a raw carrots, I've got nothing.
I've got no problems with the raw carrot.
I mean, you dip that shit in some hummus.
Delicious.
You can even eat it raw in a salad or something like that.
But as soon as you apply some sort of heat or you know, liquid heat.
Liquid heat.
Liquid heat.
That was my stage name.
Boiling water.
I love it.
Liquid heat.
Thank you so much.
Once you apply some liquid heat, like hot water, I guess.
Liquid heat.
Hot boiling water is just liquid heat.
For the rest of my life, when I go and tell someone that I'm just going to be a minute,
I'm going to take a shower.
I'm just going to say I'll be a minute.
I'm going to apply some liquid heat.
Oh, my God.
Everything he makes is golden.
It's in the law now that the greatest enemy of Tonald is the cooked carrot.
Cooked carrots.
Oh, the meme, the meme value of this video.
The temple of Tonald.
The cook carrot.
Make an image.
I don't know.
It's open to whatever interpretation you want.
But Tonald needs to be afraid.
Oh, no, wait.
Actually, got it.
Do a picture of Tonald like hiding from a carrot based off of the alien isolation
cover art where Ripley or poster, I think I don't think it's the actual cover
where Ripley, her daughter's like hiding from the alien.
Fucking dreaded cooked carrot.
Carrot and make it quote unquote cooked.
It transforms it from a perfectly acceptable food item or vegetable.
Why is this in your introduction to second channel?
What are you thinking?
It's because Tonald is like, you know what people like people like when I'm
when I'm spontaneous and kind of quirky.
So what can I do?
Oh, I don't like cooked carrots.
That's good enough as anything, I guess.
You could say to a monstrosity of epic proportions and absolutely disgusting
piece of food.
You should throw in the trash.
What's up?
He's got a guitar.
I play a little bit of song.
Our opening of Upward Strike.
I'm really excited about this channel as I am.
This lovely breed love guitar.
No, this is not an average.
I don't know what I want more.
I don't know if I want herbal or if I want him to be really good.
What if he was what if he was godly?
Please.
Like the second coming of Stephen Vai.
You do it, man.
My crown jewel, my girl, my Adam Jones, please.
Another mother, as they say.
So let's play a little bit of a tune here.
She's going to sing, too.
Wow, he's good.
This is the most diverse tonal video ever made.
I know.
I wish he made more of these, honestly.
Tonal.
You're actually good.
What the fuck?
He's actually good.
You didn't sing.
Total more of that.
More of that.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Did you do you see this?
What?
The thumbnail.
Oh, you vanilla.
Wow.
Was so memorable.
Why what?
Look at the L's.
He fucked up on the thumbnail.
And so he drew the little thing at the bottom of the eye to to an L.
Hang on.
I got to get this on screen.
Oh, my God.
He actually.
He drew on the L's.
Oh, wow.
So memorable.
OK.
Oh, it's true.
What is true?
Why did he just remake this?
He said just remake it.
It's real.
This is the actual.
He had to have intentionally hit the I button three times.
Made the thumbnail and then decided to draw them on rather than going in and reach the legs.
Right.
They just they just underneath everything else.
The sentence is fine.
They're overlapping each other.
This is classic total man.
This redeems everything we've had to go through.
Yep.
It was all worth it, folks.
It's amazing how he he he got everything together.
He got his wording.
And then at the very last moment, he like he's like, fuck.
It says the new I have to I have to change.
And you just redo the letters.
No, I can't redo the letters because I only made the speech box so big and the L's would make vanilla wider.
And it wouldn't fit in the little thought bubble.
So I have to just draw him on by hand.
I can imagine him like whipping out Microsoft paint and like struggling to keep the cursor straight with his mouse.
Tonal, you're such a perfect human being.
The Nia Wow is awesome.
I like how I can post that into the meme section once the stream is over and I won't need to do anything with it.
It's just the thumbnail.
It's a meme.
All right.
So the other one is his newest video.
His return of the press is his return, everyone.
So this one, you got to buckle your your buckles in.
All right.
That's how serious this is going to get.
After years less than still tell you what can we start there?
We've been going for like six plus hours.
Maybe take a little 10 minute break so I can grab a snack, get a drink.
Well, because we're halfway through.
Something I noticed, right?
And I just have to I'll have to pitch this to you guys live.
We've got a video tunneled left.
This should take a good I'd say half an hour.
Probably got a lot of memes, a lot of memes.
And then we've got quite a truckload of super chats.
Yeah, it really depends on availability for you folks.
But what if we were to split the stream?
And so so that I could start a new one, which gives me a bigger cap,
which means I can get through more of them before I have to go.
I'm not a not a bad idea.
So we've got we can also take a break.
Yeah, because I don't even like just enough to go grab a snack.
Well, I'd like to eat someone and walk around and we can then begin a new
obviously the next one would begin with us covering a tonal video.
Then memes.
Yeah, I need to.
I just want to I just want to go right.
I probably won't even take 10 minutes.
I just want to like go and grab a little snack like a little that.
That would actually give me the time to go to the gas station and pick up
some caffeine because I got to drive cross state tomorrow for your funeral.
And yeah, does that work out all right for everybody?
Yeah, that sounds pretty good.
How many minutes break?
Shall we tell everyone?
It's going to be we say in half an hour.
I'd say 30 minutes.
All right.
All right.
Yeah.
I'll be around, but I will use that time to have a snack.
Are we going to do that now or are we going to go through the tonal video
first?
Yeah, what's the plan?
I mean, I think we may as well do like a meme slash super chat dream
for the second one.
I mean, it doesn't really matter because I think that this stream could
go to seven hours.
Then there's a half hour break or this stream could stop at six and a half
and the next one can go for however long as well.
You know, like it doesn't it doesn't really matter.
Um, it's really up to you guys.
It's like a coin flip at this point.
Do we ask chat?
What would they prefer?
Chat, tell us what to do.
We take the break.
I'm now.
I'll be around the whole time.
It was just a matter of me grab going over and grabbing a stack and
working fat break everyone fat break.
I use a fat break after all this after this tonal playing that guitar man.
I got to think I'm going to have to think I'm going to have to rub one out
real quick.
Yeah, definitely thinking I might have to.
Yeah, I'm in the mood for loving.
We've got a whole collection of responses.
Honestly, it's hard to actually figure out.
A lot of lists of break now pizza keep going.
Do it now.
Break now.
Great.
I've seen a lot more break nows.
All right.
Are we cool with the break now?
Sure. Yeah.
All right.
So we are going to come back in approximately 30 minutes.
Uh, this will be fab 46, 64.
And the next one will be 65.
Me and Rags actually missed out on any fab.
Now we can double up this one.
It's great.
Uh, super chats will be answered on the next one as well as meme.
Finally covering memes, all copyright friendly ones and a bit of tonaled as well.
That'll be the plan.
30 minutes folks.
See you then.
Bye-bye.
See you soon.
Just a little bit later.
