Going live with the very first kooky efap stream
sick
Feel bad though. We're not gonna be doing one on the first because I just feel like they didn't should have lined that up for us
You know, but I guess he's busy doing other stuff. Okay. Why the fuck can't you pull him through Satan? Oh
Because I like to think that he's working hard
Getting things done. I can his list twice that sort of thing. Mm-hmm. I'll do everything apparently
Oh
Hello look at them all pouring in how range of them
Don't you guys have anything to do on a late Sunday?
Not me except be scared on this spooky scary efap. Look at that. Every what is it? What does this say?
Gasps bullshit read it out. Look at that. How scary every frame of scream Wow, that's not a P
Yeah, well, it's clearly boarded over rags. I don't know what you mean
But it'd be a P at that point written in blood
Somebody screwed up our sign
It's vandalism. I tell you
Vandal schmism's
kick frosting
I'm offended by this vandal to
Pumpkin more. Oh, yeah, I guess this is the first time that they've seen my little icon
I've had this for since October, but it's wonderful, isn't it? It's great. I love it
Orange mism's
Rags and that's bullshit. GG don't have Halloween II pictures. You're all horrible people in the wakes
She took me at least 15 seconds to find that web
Yeah, you didn't find the web
No, I was looking for it in the main screen. I had to look over at Chad
I feel like people will notice the obstruction before the web and then be like, oh, that's a web
Oh, it looks great when a super chat goes past it
Oh, oh, it looks it all up. Oh
There it is. I just need enough people to talk to put one behind it and then everybody stopped talking
Or people don't give us money then they can't see it. Well, that will massive, you know, we'll deal with that. That's fine
You know, I have to take someone's already done it now. So you don't need any more. We just need to push it up
I don't know. I think I missed it. I
Like it now, I think it looks okay ish
Right there. I said it. Okay ish
Controversial. They did good with what they did
And they did it. All right the way that they did it
You make the web a shade of gray I will maybe do that next time but I have to leave like this for now cuz I
Can't be making incredibly huge changes during stream on a wizard. You know, I think I can actually
They have like filters on OBS or like colors on individual images. So
I'm to the fuck with it now while we wait for people to come in
You're a wizard, but you're intended for children. So you're not as good. Oh, no
Not a wizard intended for children. Oh, yeah
Means we can't talk about any aspect of it now
No, only but unless you like it then you can do it all you want. I'm checking your ape shit
You
Get rid of that sound
Hey contrast brightness and a huge shift this be it
Anything Ella ray
Look like it's changing to
Being lied to
Are you well
I
Suppose we could take a tism look. I
Sort of see it. I don't I don't like it though. I'm just gonna say I don't really like the web
I can't I can't say I know I I know we're on stream and maybe this is the best time replace to do it
But I gotta say I don't like the stream. All right. I like the stream
Comes out
Any of you and I don't like chat I don't like your stupid fucking web in your gravestone in the fact that scream isn't a
P word, I don't like any other like like like P. M
Every like I said every frame
Pants in frame every frame of pumpkin. That's a frame of pumpkin
Every frame of phantom. No, no one like that. Everybody down vote
Phantasm every frame
I don't know what other P words poltergeist
Reframe a poltergeist. Yeah, that sounds like the big gay
Ookie words beginning with P Google will do this better than or of it
Pants every frame of pants shitter every every frame of petrify
Every frame a frame of a prank
That's what you're that's what you're putting down
We made a P word gonna have to hold fast to this mean it wouldn't be a P word because some horrible villain
the masked bandit has
nailed a board on top of our precious
Efap logo and then I can't screamed blood on top of it
Jesus Christ imagine how hard you must scream to just have blood squirt out of your throat
I think that probably I was gonna say the accuracy part is what gets me
Maybe it's just a coincidence and it just kind of looks like scream. There's just a blotch every frame of panic. That's a good one
Everyone said it from a pumpkin. That's good every frame of period blood
Oh, no
Can vampire if you're a vampire bear bear with me if you're a vampire
Yeah, could you nourish yourself off of period blood? I assume you could right?
So blood I
Wonder if blood has like of there's it's like wine, you know, there's some shit wine and great wine
Oh, that's gonna be like really good wine or really good
Blood and really bad blood blood like blood from a toe
Yeah
Period blood like a merlot or some shit period blood is like the box wine of oh, you have the blood world
You bring it to parties and stuff and everyone's like, all right, this is here
He said like would it make a difference if it was like the finger or the toe?
Well, that'd just be the same degree. I think blood quality lower quality blood. Is it cuz the stuff on that?
That toe that's like, you know, they've been walking around and well, you know that and it's well
I think it's furthest away from the heart, right?
So the further you get away from the heart may be the worse the blood gets. Yeah
Well, they wouldn't believe circulates through brain. I don't think there's any blood in the brain
Is there not I don't think there is I'm pretty sure someone no wait is there blood in the brain?
Right normal function of the brains control centers dependent upon adequate supply of oxygen and nutrients to a dense network of blood vessels. Okay
Yeah. All right. Well Google does it taste good for vampires? That's what we were looking for brain blood
I thought was like around the brain. I didn't know there was like brain in blood in the brain
I thought there were like stuff around the brain and it had like that cerebral spinal fluid
Can they drink cerebral in the brain, right? It's just um
Around it
I'm not a doctor tism. Why would I know this stuff? Is there any doctors in the efap audience?
Particularly ones that drink blood that's that's the port and part
Yeah, I should pick out I think so
All right. Oh, yeah, I should say hello. Welcome. Welcome everyone in efap
56 56. Yes 56. I remembered
We're here today to discuss many a thing and many not a thing and and today's our weeks
This guest is is mr. Gigi. Hello. How'd you do? Oh, you know that one? What's up guys?
That is miss gg not to be confused with mr. Gigi or miss Gigi. Actually, I actually I actually
Gigi she's married. Mm-hmm. So yeah, that's miss style with an a
Otherwise you'll get someone else. What's the what what is the what is the urban equivalent of?
Mrs. Do you have mr. Is mr. What is missus become? Maybe it's Misa Jar Jar banks was saying that
Oh lordy-loo
The guy who
Hook responsibility for taking down efap episodes previously is in chat telling everybody they've been trolled by him
They were it was a hoax
No guys, I was only pretending to be
Yeah
You did it. Good job. The only thing I ever said to him was that he obviously didn't do it
I just thought of course not no one thinks that you you can't just do that
No one thinks that no one believed you what are you talking about?
We all just no, sorry, we all think you're an asshole
That's that's what it was. And if if you're like, ah
Got you you're doing the the meme what rags just said that I was only pretending to be retarded meme
Like there's nothing to be proud of
Hi, I did asshole things like literally
I got you ran up to someone and just dribbled and vomited everywhere. They're like, what the fuck you doing?
I'm like, I'm not actually an idiot
That's exactly what we're talking
All right
um
You also this is tangentially related. Um, i'd like to share with you guys
This is a comment. I found on one of my videos now
I'm gonna bring this back and i'm looking forward to it with episode nine
But do you guys remember that in my star wars rage videos? I referred to the force as the gay
and it
It made for some amusing connections that you can make with like good different things
And and someone was very upset
I did that and they left this comment. It wouldn't be the internet frags. Would you like to uh,
To to read this. Oh, yeah, that sounds fun. All right. So the comment
Comment is by
Vincent van goe
He said I find your line of catching the gay
highly freaking offensive
like so much
I usually just say my opinion isn't always a fact, but it's my opinion on stuff, but that
What you said what the hell
Do you hate gay people?
smaller
Do you uh
Can I can I remain like unconfirmed on that because the jury's still out on whether he hates the gays
He can be swayed either way. You know, there's a difference between gay people and the gay
Gay that's right. That's right. There's a difference between cancer and cancer patients. That's true
Most will just ignore that or think it's funny, but seriously catching the gay. What does that even?
What does that even mean to you besides the obvious?
Do you want a gay guy jumping on you like one is now?
I reported your film two ways
What the fuck I would so punch you in the face, but I do not condone violence really so
Reporting is the best way
great opinions
seriously
Be unbiased not try to throw a bad joke or your terrible opinion
The moment I heard that I rewind your video put on captions
Even though captions on youtube stink when you find volume videos and played the part
Sorry, I got really irritated when I saw that
I do. Hope you get something done there, but not some kind of mark, but we both know you won't
What the hell I don't know, but I don't know about you, but that makes all kinds of sense
You guys are able to follow that right? Oh
Absolutely
No, no
its own but
And this is this this person has definitely
Caught the gay. Yeah. Oh, yeah
It's looking pretty serious as it you know, it'll it'll turn you into an acolyte. That's what it'll do
now
I i'll say first off
um
Hello burning for the win, but also I would like to say um
You know, I actually forgot what I was gonna say. So let's just proceed
So you're gonna review the comment as a whole just like nine out of ten. Um, I don't know subjectively
I rate it pretty highly. I thought it was very amusing
I enjoyed the misspellings and the terrible grammar that made it impossible for me to actually sort of tell what you were saying
Uh, but at the same time I gotta say objectively. Um, I think it's an absolute train wreck
so
Don't give up keep trying. I can't wait for your next. Uh, I can't wait for the next installment in the saga
I can't say the beginning of your story was very compelling, but then he kind of lost me half
I think it had pacing issues if I hated the gays
why would I
The most bizarre way to express that is that I call the force gay
The force is the gay
Like I just like who in the world would have been offended to this degree by it
I just thought it was supposed to give people a giggle but holy shit
Does this person think that like kathleen kennedy hates women because they she said the force is female
Um, I don't know maybe good chance
um, I don't know
Uh, so yeah
um both both examples we just had very
amusing youtube commenters that
They're the lifeblood of the community. That is youtube. They keep us going so never stop
Um, another fun thing and this is this this may take some time. I really don't know
I don't know how we're going to approach this but
I was made aware by cynical reviews that there was there was a list of words that have been tested by somebody extensively
to find out
What if you put into your title of your video can get you demonetized?
um, like automatically
and so
This person would have taken ages to do this I imagine and there's um a couple of like
Words that have asterisks next to them to imply that they change
which
How confusing is that like what system have they got going on? Is it like a bot decides what words are offensive?
I wonder um, but I think it kind of just learns as time goes on right kind of insane
So the more videos it says that in the title and then that's getting demonetized then that word officially becomes like yellow
Right on the topical side of things the word gay is censored on titles too. Isn't that like
You're gonna piss off gay people as well as people who hate gays
Lutely
Um, no because youtube pays lip service to the lgbt plus lower score nine creators by
giving them their own
parts of the website where they can talk about how
gay and brown and special and trans and colorful and wonderful they are and
They promote their material out there and they talk about how they care about content creators that are
Certain, you know this that and the other thing they'll they'll say it even though in the background
They're actually going. Oh, you don't get to make any money
We're gonna demonetize all your videos. Well, it's
Bizarre, but um, I didn't see the newt city video, but um
I'm what i've heard is that these things as much as they're pretty dumb. You can get it sorted out by like the um
On time like the the people the creators chat thing i'm assuming they can like remodel
Some yeah, i've had to do that before but it it it took one of the like the last video
I did it took them like weeks to do it
Activation right? Well, okay. Yeah, so if everyone pulls it up, let's have a look at these
the first one that
bought 20
Blaze it
That's a drug reference smaller
So I know that's why it's funny like why why why I mean 69 monetize your your drug
paraphernalia and your drug thoughts
I see so the green the green is monetizable. I see okay. See oh, yeah
If you go to um, if you sort by confirmed demonetized words
Uh at the top we could we get an easy list. Uh
Some of these will be interesting af okay
Okay
Yeah, i'm not i'm not gonna go through the whole thing if anybody just
Is some strange ones here?
There's the the kind of words that i'm like, I guess you wanted to test it just to see what would happen
Yeah, no answers on there. I'm not sure why alert is it was anal cancer specifically on the list
Yeah, I mean if you establish that anal is demonetized then does it matter about the other ones?
Exactly. Well, what is that? Like double demonetized? Don't know they're just having fun
Sex
Ass fuck, uh, like ass fuck and
You've got two there's ass fuck is two words and ass fuck is one word
Oh shit. So if you say it is asians is demonetized really no asian
Wow
That's racist wonder if this stream will get demonetized now. Oh, I think so
We said 420
Yeah
Mathematicians
Uh cj said you have to kind of look at the
The ones that are monetized too just to see how stupid it is. So
I mean honestly just just look through at your own pleasure. I'm i'm just very
Fascinated by this whole thing
booby boobs boobs
What yeah, it's like there are several words with more and more o's in them
Um, I guess yeah because people I guess people realized you couldn't say boob
So they started saying boob
And then youtube caught on and then they started saying boob
Dude if if aids is demonetized chris. I don't know rich evans is going to get a whole bunch of uh
Of videos demonetized for rlm. Surely. Oh, no
They tried this faggot they tried that didn't work faggot
Yeah
Fap has been demonetized
Efap is okay for now. They'll get us eventually i'm sure wait fcuk is like a brand, isn't it?
No, yeah, nobody's that stupid fcuk is a brand
You don't know this. What did they do? They're like, uh, I want to say pay a few more clothing
Fcuk yeah, look french connection uk. That's what it's called
French connection uk. They're a real thing and you get demonetized. I guess now if you okay, but there's no c then there's no c in there
French avec show it's like I get it if it was like fuk but not fuck. What do you mean? There's no
They're not they're not called fuck they're called f u fcuk. Sorry
Okay. Okay fukuk fukuk. Okay. See well then that makes sense. Well, no, but i'm saying fukuk is demonetized
And so that poor company
They don't get to demonetize anything I guess
I'm glad that the word absolutely is
Okay. Oh no
Female squirting is gone. Oh, no
Female entirely is gone. Yeah female. Yeah, okay. Yeah, so many variations of fisting
We we have we have cock cock block cock pocket we have
Cocks not
Cock sucker cock dash sucker. Oh, they only tried one for foreskin. You didn't want to try any of them
Cocks sucker cocksuckers cocksucking and they would get into coffin. So don't die. He tried to fuck a duck
Sorry for whoever is gabriel then you can't say cuck or cuck cold
Oh my god, when you get to the fuck portion, that's a lot of attempts. That's a lot of you can't say doggy style
What the fuck you can't say dogging man. That is pretty
Wow
Jesus youtube unbelievable. That's very oh, no, no, you can't say fuck wit spelled with a h fuck wit
Oh, no, you can't say explosive diarrhea
Oh, no
I like there's so many variations of cancer and you got gallbladder cancer is attempted
Julie this medicinal videos that cover this look at this
Look when you go to fuck, how do you pronounce like how do you pronounce f space u space c space k?
Well, these are these are words that when put into titles demonetize you um,
As for being detected as spoken that's probably
The list would probably be similar because I know that they do that as well. You can't say front but
I wonder how that works for like accents and stuff
Why is gallon in it you can't say gabriel. Yeah, that's what I was looking at earlier
Gabriel gabriel and gallon like what a name
So this is this is the interesting thing about this
This list is where there's so many different ways these get here
I like there's so many different parameters that can earn a word onto this list
And that's why it's so funny
Do you think maybe it's because it's connected to like, you know christian mythology or something?
maybe
Because like, I don't know. It's like there's a whole lot of anti-religious sentiment nowadays. It could be what about fucking gallon. Yeah
All I could think of was like gallons of cum that's
I know man. I've had those days. All I can think about is just gallons of
That's just where my head I'm an american i'm not gonna say leaders have come
We went to war with people who use leaders
We had a revolution so that I didn't have
Gay works
sometimes
Sometimes when I put lead, I don't I didn't want to have to put leaders have come into my my
My fifth wife who died of polio
By the gallon you can't say idaho
what
You can't say grammar nazi. Oh, I guess because of the nazi part
Boy is what you don't know. It could be grammar. It could legit be like grammar is just a bad word. They don't like
Um
Oh, Jared. Jared. Oh isis. There's a special one for isis. It says will lock video yellow do not use
Jared is on here
Jared
Jared's on here. Just the name Jared
Yeah, Jared. Wow. Sorry. Um, sorry pro jared. I'm rick james, bitch
So
By the way malignant brain tumor don't put that in your title or it will get demonetized
Itchy bottom really
Let's see. Let me so thieleoma
Minnesota
Missouri
Like they're legitimate places where people live in the bots like yep demonetized
You live in an offensive place
You can't say naggers wait is condom
Is that a word?
No, i'm pretty sure you're trying to get around it. You win
Yeah
Is that people trying to get around saying condom?
I think so because on this list they have masturbate but without the u and an e instead because a lot of people misspell masturbate
Joker's on the list
Of course it is. Is that literally because of the movie?
I'm curious. Yeah
You can't say new zealand because like this is how it works, right?
It gets thrown into here and then well just so all the people trying to review it will get hit with yellows randomly
Not everybody I wonder how that works
Maybe it's like you have to tick enough boxes rather than just one
something
I think the way nerd city explained it in the video is it's kind of like a point system in a way
So yeah, the way you explained it is when you combine demonetized words, it can really affect you
Yeah, so if you combine if you combine osama bin laden
with
pelvic organ prolapse
Might have an issue with getting your video to monetize. I was waiting for you to add gallons of come up to that
Swirl
No, I scrolled down and now if now you can have pussy palace, okay
Make sure that you don't combine that with
um
I don't know say
Stomach cancer very bad. There are sudden infant death syndrome
licking is
And lindsey is a bad if you put them together licking lindsey, that's that's it. You're thinking
What if that's her stage name?
It's a documentary on licking lindsey, I heard it was interesting
It's interesting that pass away is on this list because it reminds me of a george carlin bit when he says he like he was
Going on about like how politically correct words have become and he's like and don't worry everybody. I will never die
I'll pass away
And now that's not even allowed. It's like oh, so I don't know how to pronounce it y a o i
The like gay anime stuff
Yoi yo
Yowi, whatever it is that's on the list as well as is oophilia. Why is master bat a list?
One of the word one of the number 1000 is xbox nigga
massage
specifically xbox
This is kind of weird rumor is on here, but it's the one with a u that one's not allowed
Oh
So rumor without a u is allowed fine. All right. Mm-hmm. Yeah, we're okay. Yeah, you can take your leaders have come and show it
Esophilioma why milf hunter no
Sudden infant death syndrome what?
Oh my god, the amount of different ways to do motherfucker, that's great
Pharyngeal cancer. Some of these are crazy
Yeah, we it's perhaps pronounced yaoi
Which is not the sound you should be making if you're doing it correctly nasal and sinus cancer like that
That's an actual full just one on its own
nasal and sinus cancer
So I got when it comes to cancer. We have anal cancer
bile duct bile dicked cancer bladder cancer
Dicked cancer
Breast cancer just cancer gallbladder cancer head and neck cancer lung cancer
Mouth cancer nasal and sinus cancer nasopharyngeal cancer
penile cancer
Prostate cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer
Vaginal cancer and then we're back up to anal cancer, right?
Can you read the 658 and 660?
658 and 660
658 need the dick
And 660 needle dick
Needed these ones do we saw what I was like too many people talk about their needle dicks we got it
People need the dicks and if they need the needle dick, oh no money to say require the dick now
I can't believe I require the phallus the phallus bring it here nut huggers
Oaks
Offensive okay
Oriental this is a porn spelled with an oh zero that's there you go
North Carolina
Yeah, it's like just every state is just not allowed for some reason
I wonder if california's on here if it's not then I think we have uh
I have to wonder if like I had an Amazon delivery, right?
Let's see. I don't wonder if youtube like
Interesting. California's not on here. Oh, who'd have thunk. I want to know if if if youtuber would want to address this
And be like look it makes sense
Looking at it this way is gonna taking the piss
Wouldn't want those filthy filthy flyover states in your title
Good. Gosh. I think oh britain is in here. We made it
I think the moral of the story is just if you want to do youtube videos. Just don't expect to make money
Find alternative means don't use many words. Just just keep it simple. Don't say anything. I would say do instrumentals
But we know those get demonetized too. So
Whatever the jj really
Don't make it the the jj song or j or the anal prolapse song or anything like that. Just don't do it
What a weird world staring at the camera for just under 10 minutes
We did it so that's I don't really
What can we even say that's just yeah, it's great
I'm not a big fan of unions
uh, but man, I I know the york sprob thing and the
I hope that youtubers union works out because there we we've gotten to a point where youtube has become such a just a poop show
that it's just
Man
It ain't right. It ain't right
the system
Forked
Yep, shrek is on here cynical review. Oh, no
Yeah
I guess the bot was programmed to be like nope enough of your memes
nice swamp
Um somebody up that's on there too. Um, I realize people are concerned
about asking the episode of the star wars question i'm afraid
Um gg is not interested in star wars. Even hasn't even really seen them. Is that what you said?
Yeah, have you have you even seen like the originals?
No
Jesus wow
I thought I was I thought I was the last one alive to have not seen the originals. So
Oh, wow, yeah jay has seen more than oh, no
Oh, no
Oh, no
Oh, no
Well, we don't have to judge him. It's all right. You know where we're doing that
I'm dancing full responsibility
I'm disappointed, but you know
That's a common feeling. I'm not angry. I'm not angry. Okay. I'm I'm disappointed
Is which is worse actually what they always say
angry's better, um
But yeah, I guess your vote wouldn't make any sense the the the idea is that
You have people vote on who they think is the character that they'll fuck up the most next like in episode nine and obviously
You're just gonna be like I don't even know the character's names and i'd be like you're already halfway there pretty much because once you
Learn their name
You've pretty much gotten it all because the characters are that bad, but
um
I'll have to leave you out. I'm afraid
Unless you want to quickly watch all of them. I mean, we'll give you five minutes if you want
I'm all in really fast speed
iTunes yeah. Yeah, I think I heard him do it. That was the sound of it all the movies at once
Which one was your favorite? All right, we can start now
Did you like the third one? A lot of people say it's the best the prequels are
Same
Yeah, the pacing was pretty good
Um, well, I guess that brings us to our main event because uh, we we were going to talk about
Well, yeah, and people people probably want us to mention joker. I saw it
Go on twitter to see what I thought about it like more in depth. But the easy way to say it is it was pretty good
I liked it. And it's it's what I would say is the best film i've seen this year
Uh, I loved it
It's been interesting watching media meltdown over it. Uh, I don't understand what the hell's going on, but I also do
I guess it's uh, you had said earlier
That you wanted a sequel
Right
If we can't say too much
Well, I mean i'm not gonna say much. I just I don't agree but we can uh, we can discuss that later. We'll have to see
Put a bookmark in that
Put a put a put a tismark in that
um
Yeah, I don't think it's I don't think it well as far as i'm aware it won't because it's not supposed to be any
kind of universe movie
Well, and I believe blocking phoenix only said he wanted to do one
Oh, there you go. Um
Yeah, so anyway the the other thing we're going to talk about today was was um
well just game of thrones for a bit because uh
You know, we're all so much in love with that
And um again, I don't know how this is gonna work
In terms of
Copyright stuff, but I was meant to show this before
basically, and I don't know if anyone here has seen it or um people in chat have seen it
but the uh
The cast were at a panel and it was they were they were addressing questions and something funny came up
Because uh, everybody always wanted them to address the whole thing dnd happened to just not turn up to this thing
By the way, even though they were supposed to talker. Yeah, um
Why ever would they not I don't know it's a mystery
Uh, there's lots of different things people have talked about as reasons why they probably were tired ill, you know, lots of different
reasonable reasons for someone to not turn up
Um, i've heard that one or two people didn't like the season, but I doubt that's connected to it. Um
Either way, oh, uh, so wait, is anyone anyone not in the uh, what's the
Well, i'm right here
Rags is it you?
Hello. Oh, there you are one more. Um, have you used this before gg? I usually should ask people just in case
I haven't but
It's a wonderful little system. It just leaves us all in sync. Uh, volume control is for you individually though. We all get our own one
Okay, um, but let me just find the time
Man
I'll try and be careful
Good chance. This is gonna get claimed though, and i'm not sure
Well, i'm hoping that we can just get away with it. That's just kind of where i'm at
Drag it back to like here
That should do it
We did an interview, uh for for ew when uh, you know
When when you're on set and you're like still in character and you're still very much in the story, right? Yeah, so for context
Rags, I think you're the only person that would have trouble with this
But you probably recognize vaguely maybe one or two of those people. They're all the cast. I recognize one
I recognize uh on the far right
is um
I know the character. Um
Jamie
Jamie
Then you have Davos. Yes
And then you have um, there's gray worm gray worm. That's his name and then you have
Uh, little aria anya. Yep nailed it. And then you have bill, right?
bill sam bill
Sam sam that sam is the bill with sam's pony. That's how I got him mixed up
Oh that on the far left should be uh, kyburn, right?
Now on the far left is no that's uh, that's uh, the spyman
Oh, no, no, you're right. No, see I got their name mixed up. It's also a harryman now as well
Spyman, uh shit. What was the spyman's name again? You got this you could do it
But you're actually oh, no, I was asking you
vanis
Huh varrus varrus varrus right and kyburn's the guy whose head exploded out of nowhere
So, uh
He I actually read out his his comment on uh, I think my episode
four video
Where he basically said that like well, he wasn't happy and uh, this person's talking about that in this question
And that interview got a lot of attention
It got a lot of pickup you you were very candid about your feelings about the final season
And internet being internet, you know
I think it kind of got some of those quotes got kind of cherry picked and and put onto other sites and kind of pushed
Perhaps a bit further than you intended, you know
I got the feeling you kind of wanted to address that a bit and maybe some more time has passed
How are you now feeling about the end of areas? Well, I don't regret starting the petition
My name is he bran, huh? Oh, yeah bran's there too. I didn't even see bran
You had to laugh when someone said that this is the thing. Um
The whole petition thing like people love to talk about that the guy who made that said he made it as a joke
And so like a lot of people like what is wrong with you? And it's like
The whole guy is like he just wanted to say that he thought the writer was bad. That's all
Um, but like when you got like the actors of the show, uh
Referencing it it's like that this thing got around
Um, it was funny my when I met with my family to um, watch some of the seasons
They mentioned it without me mentioning it. I was like, oh wow you heard about this
How many people um
Signed it in total. Was it two million or what a million and a half? I think
Two million to redo season eight
Yeah
It's pretty nutty number. That's for sure
um
I feel like i'm waiting for someone to mention it in checks. I imagine they'll know
Uh, it says right here
1.7 million. Jeez. Wow
It's a lot of people people are still signing it right now people still signing it
Yeah, it's it's like giving you live notifications signed five hours ago signed five hours ago. Oh shit. So it's over 1.2
billion is what you might
Fight it for you
Let me just throw my billion with a m
But um, yeah people saying you should pause this more
The problem is we're never gonna get through this video if I keep pausing it
So i'm kind of gambling with this one and hoping that we get through it. Anyway
I mean, I just can't keep an eye on chat if we go down
That'll be awkward
What else can I do?
And see that that sheer by the way, that's the fans being like yeah, well shit wouldn't it
It's it's gratifying to have the actors go along with it, but I think the
They feel bad
It'd be like we shouldn't be shitting on it that sort of thing
I think I think they know that they're I think especially being in a room full of people that feel this way
They're like, yeah
We're almost like united against the fact that we've been betrayed in some way by the end of this terrible season
Well, they do that's really how I would feel it'd be interesting to see what you think of what they say then
Now to be very honest I did an interview with ew way after we finished the show
And the question was how did you feel at the time when I was very honest that I was absolutely gutted to get so close
Let's not
Make the end
But then I what?
It is inside your head
So, I think that was him being like has anyone else read the book scene at the varsity this got a different fate interestingly, but uh
It doesn't really matter
I I I gave I thought I gave a very honest
Answer to how I felt but I put it in the context of that was one of the risks in being in a multi-character show
And I thought the whole initial interview was very balanced. But as you say
It was picked over like a whale on the beach
And they took all the negative out of it and didn't put any of the positive in so for the record
I loved all my 10 years on game of thrones. I started when I was
So this is the thing I kind of want to mention
It's like it sucks when the actors think that we might for a second be like oh everything about it was terrible
Even even the way you guys like probably hung out was probably bad. You hated it all didn't you? It's like no
Direct it all specifically at the writing. I'm not even saying directed at the right his
Because then you should be accused of like being a hate monger of a certain toxic brood, but holy shit like
The writing okay, everything else is fine. Everything else did great the coffee cups. Even they looked great
Very very green direct it
Not funny
And um, it was a life-changing experience and I met wonderful people on an offscreen who I worked with who were beautiful inside and out
And the one thing that last series was about was the futility of conflict
And the pointlessness of war and if that you get yeah, but that's wrong though war gets shit done. I was gonna say it
It's like it's literally not true. It's like but you beat them with the war
Like what do you think the war ended the conflict for now?
Like war solves problems if war didn't do anything people would do it
Yes, he just means like we should all be nice and happy like yeah. Yeah, you know
I agree nice and happy
For the planet foods y'all well, we're on the topic of the reaction
You know, I do want to get into that a little bit because you know, sir
See didn't get her elephants, but that is the elephant in the room, you know
I spoke to each you on on the set. Um, I get the feeling everyone's expecting a certain percentage
Of of fan upset over the final season either because you obviously can't please everybody and also because a certain
You know scripted things were were were pretty much intended to be divisive
But I don't think anyone expected the level of of blowback that there was so for whoever wants to tackle it
I don't I I don't think it was you look at the amount of people who are here
And we're here to thank you for watching us for all those you yes
Like I think I feel like you'd be better off
It's just like one-on-one interviews are some specific questions about character decisions instead because it always gets sort of construed into like
Game of thrones season eight was just bad overall and so they immediately want to be like no
No, we had great time and the fans were respected and beloved. It's like
It was such a good message. There were such positive vibes. We all got like pc answers ready to go
Oh, yeah, they must have known this would come up ready. Oh, yeah, they were walking into that's why dnd didn't show up
Threw him in the lions den
We were never divisive as a past
We didn't fight among each other. We always did our hardest work and crew for you
And so we're very grateful for your fandom over the years and I think this is the reality rather than
a sort of media led hate
campaign
Media led hate campaign. It was a media
Media didn't really do anything unless you can they kind of didn't they kind of go on damage control for it, too
Yeah, like unless he's talking about like youtubers
Their media. I don't know. I guess. I don't know. I just wouldn't really count that as
media
Like uh hate campaign it's all well and good when they like it when they don't like it it's a hate campaign
It's like, oh, that's not nice. Yeah, it's if it's a media led love campaign
Oh, that's fine, how would that look a media led love campaign?
Well, that's what we got with like captain marvel and stuff
Yeah, black panther you will love it. If you do not love it, you erase you are sexist. You are a bad person
But also remember it's like every
it was
Yeah, it was surprising the level of I mean the absurdity of the online petition
Of course the hbo gonna change the whole thing. Yes
Like the guy who wrote it even said that he doesn't intend for it to actually make any difference
He just wanted to make the petition and so when people are like, did you really think your petition was gonna make a difference? It's like
Does it matter?
The fact that they signed it either way whether their sentiment thought that you know when they signed it
Whether or not they thought it would really bring a change or whether or not they thought it was just their way of voicing
Their displeasure either way. It doesn't change the point
just like
So condescending just like do you do you think the important part is that the people signed it?
Of course, that's the power of the internet
but
every season we had
Huge controversies and there was like from that start being killed. It was like i'm never going to watch that piece of shit
And then there was the red wedding and I never I mean there was every season
Obviously the end
In a show that I mean I I've just I think it's been it's
I'm so having trouble there
This is really I feel like they're really trying to avoid the actual question of like empty
The yeah, that hurt. I love that. It's like yeah, they can name these events and then he says the the end
of
you know
You can see trying to relate the red wedding and Ned Stark's death to
Daenerys killing everybody. Yeah. Well, this is the thing right? He's like, oh, they're all shocking events and you're like, yeah
There were controversial things that happened in the past
so don't worry about the fact that this last season made everyone upset and his
People not for right reasons
This is what this come. I mean i've like dude, you know, this is not the same thing
I know, you know
You don't need to try and imply like main characters getting killed in reasonable ways
Is not the same as a character assassination? Okay
Yeah, did were people really upset with the red wedding and with Ned Stark dying?
I don't remember the sentiment being i'll never watch the show again. I remember it being like that was incredible and horrifying
And hell it made people want to watch it more
Yeah, I was about to say I thought those were the vibes that were coming from it because I only heard about this stuff sort of
Tangentially from other people but that sort of did seem to be the vibe here
Like wow, I can't wait to see what happens in game of thrones
There's always the whole thing of who lives who dies no one's safe that sort of thing
And this one I mean like it's a dream come true to have the actors actually talk about this and
This is what we get it's like, oh
This is fun
beeps and boops
Just here but also fans of the show and realizing that this show has brought so many they are unified in a way. Yes
I mean there's been means about this but is genuinely true
My dentist didn't like it
Okay
Like somebody who did not care to just have a critical thought about it
They were just like it's just cool show and they were like, yeah, it's pretty bad
My family hated it and i'm usually supposed to be the one that's like
trying to coax any kind of sort of
Criticism out of people instead of just having fun and I didn't have to do anything
I was just sitting there listings will be the second today. We started burning children. They were like nah
This seems a little odd
They a lot of people I bet they didn't they wouldn't have been able to necessarily articulate why it was terrible
But their brain knew something was up. Oh, yeah
And this is the thing a lot of people might assume it's just like that one just Daenerys thing
It's like, oh no, there's been so much shit going on. I swear
Whole episode's been a nightmare
All I ever heard from uh when Daenerys killed everybody from like my family specifically when I asked them like, oh, what did you think of it?
They're just like, I I guess it makes sense. That's the best answer I could
I guess it makes sense
Yeah, in fitness one of my family members were like she was really upset. I was just like giving her a face like
She was really upset, huh?
She seems somewhat distraught and yet I hear it all the time. Where's she guys killed?
It's like cool. What about all the other times? Wait, um this guy you guys
Imagine someone killed your dragon. The first response you'd have is kill children. You have to do it
Kill children. If I can't have my dragon, you can't have you
She only accidentally killed Cersei in that episode
She didn't seem to actually go for it
Forgot why she was here
Like why am I here? All right, that's the thing with episode six. She doesn't even like
Find out if anyone's found Cersei's body. She doesn't care
Yeah, you hate her. She doesn't have to confirm her death or anything
Why are we here again?
She's like, does he say children? What?
They're like Cersei's body's been found. She's like, I don't care. How many children do we kill? And they're like, yes
Round up the rest
Enough of these generations. It's like surely there were no survivors. Surely none of the children outran the flames
And of course
But at the end of the day, it's absolutely fine. I mean
You know, it's uh, if you hated the ending if you loved it if that's great
Thank you
Nobody called anyone a name on the petition. They just said we need better writers
I guess that counts as a name. I guess that's implying that they're bad writers. Yeah, which is you can't do that
That's that's just hateful
Bad writers is uh on the demonetization list. I can't say that. Yeah, you can't say that you can't say bad writers
Almost a metaphor for life. It's not arriving at the end. That's
That's the point of this whole thing. It was the journey
And it's the journey. I have a problem with not the end
I remember when they said that about mass effect three as well
It's about the journey
It's not about the destination
This is what it is. Like nobody's talking about the end. They're talking about the journey the fuck
So again to go back to the all of us and here in this room and on the millions of fans and we
Wreck out like I started at the beginning of season two when it just started to create waves
And to watch that grow
And to be on the on the set when we were doing like I get a moment of like understanding this
Like this is this thing you've worked on with all these people for all this time and you're very isolated from
Possibly like loads of fan discussions
Or maybe you're not and this is the first time they've gone like super sour
And so you just feel like why is everyone so mad?
And I have to wonder um
Is that some is that a mindset that's more common with an actor?
That's really not into the character portion of it and it's just reading the scripts as well
Yeah, this is what everyone would do because that's what the script says. Yeah, the script is the script
I mean the script can't be bad. I'm not well, maybe that's an actual thing
Maybe they're really in the mindset where they're like they you don't even really question the script
Yeah, that's I and i'm not even necessarily being that critical of that because you trust the writers
They're the ones that created developed your character, right? So you're like, of course, they know what they're doing
But I just want to see examples where actors like will like know the writers
But you know right rather than wrong preferably
They were just like no my character wouldn't do this. You have to change it that sort of thing
It would be cool to see something like that in action because I know that um
Amelia clark felt like danny wouldn't do that shit, but she didn't
Stop it or anything, which is probably not wouldn't be a wise move for her to do that. Anyway, you know
Imagine that why danny's not even here at the panel
Sorry
Is that why danny's not even at the panel?
Oh, I don't know about that. I just know the like i'm pretty sure she's she's positive about the whole thing
It's just that she's like
Lost in mind reading that she would kill a bunch of kids as one does
I imagine
I still can't get over that playing a character for eight years
That's like all about acting or at least helping the innocent
Unless you're ending you'll be like wow
Imagine the amount of people she's met who've said they named their kid after her
And you could after a murder good job. Yeah, you should have waited until the show was over. That's what people have been saying
Yeah
You guys are here is because you could recognize the amount of love that we had in making this show and we we
And you were all on this journey together
We weren't just delivering something we thought was nice our good our greaty
We we didn't know where it was going to go. Nobody knew how big it was going to get
And and all of us here feel absolutely blessed to have been part of it as much as we're all fans of the show
I mean like nobody's gonna disagree with any of that. That's not really what yeah, it's all just
Platitudes that are dull and boring. It's just pr speak and
I'm sure they feel it's true. I just it's not it's not relevant. I don't know man
I wonder how much they're just like yeah, just go to the panel say the things that we need to say and then go home and
Just say the things that nobody could disagree with and then say yeah, san diego's the best city
Oh, yeah, I agree with that like
Like if they were like, I don't know
Every question just gets deflected hardcore and then counted with something that like you just said no one's going to disagree with it
so
And I guess like the people asking the questions aren't going to go you didn't answer my question. They're just gonna go. Thank you
Oh, yeah. Thank you. I'm so glad that you spent the movie
I don't can I just like uh, okay because I wish
She was more
blatant
A little bit and we're all huge fans of the show you have to be it's a beautiful beautiful storytelling and
I'm blessed to be part of it. It was at some point. I think that's it. It's not the story you want
It doesn't make it any less. Nothing is not the story you want
Not the story you want who wanted that story?
Is there anything with the benefit of hindsight that you wish had been done differently oh, I should have been on the throne
Deflected with a joke answer like yeah, I know it's so annoying
No, really though. No, really. Tell us what you think they fucked up
Isn't it obvious
Liam's agent
Actually, it's my publicist
Speaking of endings I want to get into some specific burning questions about the final season for each of you that i'm actually quite excited
I think that's about it for that. Um
Because I don't think well, I was gonna say we could see what the first question is
But i'm pretty sure that's it for the that's the closest you get to any kind of
Question about how much people hated that season
You know nicholai you've you've strongly defended jamie's choice to return to sir
As exactly what his character would do based on everything that we've previously seen. No, but
If jamie had somehow survived being stabbed by uran and being covered in rubble and sirsi had not
Do you think that a relationship with then we would have shipped brainy?
Yes, it would have been brianne and jamie forever
Yeah, yeah, that's pretty much it like a funny answer
Yeah disappointing really what are you gonna do disappointing?
um
They probably contractually obligated to not charge the show
No for sure. I would disagree. Yeah
Yeah, I guess not
Especially if dnd weren't even there they were probably like hey, don't be assholes
I have the fact i'd be like notice the dnd didn't show up
The dnd he's like we did
Yeah, did you see the panel afterwards with seth? Uh, seth rogan? Oh, yeah
He kind of called him out for that. Maybe I could probably pull that up actually because I think after seeing what you just saw
You'll probably find this funny
He just immediately starts talking shit that they weren't there
um
Like find the original clip hopefully this is a lot of views that are gonna be like covering it I guess
See this is it
Sec
Flips being interspiced
Let's try this um, the isle is on reddit. I thought it was hilarious
So
Most notably seth rogan who had the following to say about the two and the show's ending
I just want to start by saying I know we're following the game of thrones panel, which is a fucking nightmare. Just objectively
objectively a nightmare
I also know that their showrunners didn't show up because they didn't want to answer questions about the show
so
I just want to save it
I am not one of the creators of game of thrones, but I am the creator of other tv shows
So feel free to ask me any game of thrones questions you guys have
Throughout the night. I'm not an expert. I didn't read the books, but I watched the show so I can give you my insights and thoughts
just as to
You haven't pulled it off yet. What uh, see what series finale is going to be more satisfying creature or game of thrones?
I think I I hopefully I won't be i'm here at least so I think that's a good side
I love the degree of part shots. Just like no mercy
And what I would also like to say is I would imagine those guys regret making bran the king
Ultimately he doesn't have the best story and that's
If you guys aren't coming up to the mic in the next little bit
I don't know what we're doing here. Oh, I bought the size i'll give you my take. I don't know for sure
I've met them a couple times. They're nice, but why didn't aria wear a face again?
Yeah, it's not one. Yeah, a lot of big questions. Yes, you learned all that face shit. Where'd it go? What did you do with those faces?
Face shit, where did that go?
Well, see this is the reason why like most people see what he's saying
You forget he's seth rogan like producer director big hollywood piss and you start seeing he's just a fan of the show clearly who's pissed off
Yeah, it's kind of just a guy
It is sad that it's over it's weird that it's over is it going on
They don't want all right next question, uh, do you think that uh, they made a mistake by not having jimmy lannister kill Cersei
I
Do honestly a little bit it was disappointing you don't want to follow these people over three years and see their six years
They thought they trapped in rubble con
anticlimactic anyway
Are we gonna get to see jesse custer fly in on a dragon and maybe
I wasn't gonna make a joke about how you look like woody harold
So
Because you made that joke
All right, don't do one of those things because it's because it ends it's over
It would put us in a weird position
If you guys now make like a petition to say preacher
Because it's over and we don't and we would have to do some other thing which would be super
It would be hard for us, but you will reshoot the last season, right? Yeah
We'll go back and you'll you'll redo that
Yeah, we're gonna crowdsource the reshooting of the final episode. Yeah, uh, I bet they wish they kept more of the dragons around
Yeah, um, what do you think seth rogan would play in game of thrones?
Uh, I wouldn't land this photo
And this is the thing it's not even over so this next video
Is entitled the panel stuff
No, no panel stuff's over now. Oh, okay. It's just a bit of like
overall sadness of everything but
This video is called
the give game of thrones
an unpopular opinion
I guess they're gonna be in the thrones they're gonna be making an argument for how I guess it's just not as bad as we
think sort of um
Okay, oh we got a disclaimer I guess i'll open that one up first
so
The following is not necessarily meant to argue whether or not season eight of game of thrones was good or bad
But rather to challenge the way we as an audience engaged with the story and reframe our expectations
Regarding what value we can take from an imperfect work
Um
Right, I don't
Okay
That's the most weasily don't be mad. Don't be mad. Don't be mad
Reframe our expectations
Yeah, i'm just going to try and ignore that and see what he actually says because there's not much to work with reframe your expectations
from an imperfect work
You can forgive all of them make them see they made a mistake make them understand
My god
Stop reminding me
And we have to talk about toxic fandom oh for fuck's sake oh toxic fandom
We have to talk about toxic fandoms. Tell us about the toxic who would know better us. We are the toxic brood
Yeah, who didn't like your shit? Yeah, sorry about that. I mean, well, it's not his shit. Yeah
But um, i'm gonna have to i'm putting that in gudelb
We have to talk about toxic fandoms
and then
Message it fill the screen with this. We'll probably make that one go
It's fatter than the screen is
Uh, yeah, it'll be great
Find a really really chunky font
It's like bursting
Since season eight ended the internet's been flooded with countless takes on the ending of game of thrones
From fans insisting they know the story better than the writers. Oh, can you believe that?
Talk about a fucking argument from authority. Jesus christ
The writers know it better than anyone else
It clearly like it's such a stupid thing to even talk about. Anyway,
I don't know
Does he not think that there are certain rules with certain characters about certain things that certain people know better than others? I don't know
And shit, what if the writers just forgot about oh, no
Yeah, the guy who was like, oh maybe einstein's theory of relativity isn't as solid as we thought is
Can you believe this guy thinks he knows physics better than einstein the guy who wrote physics?
All right, let's keep going
It's clear that reactions are
mixed
And while criticism is important. I think that if we want to be critical of media
We should also be critical of our own opinions
So in light of some of the extreme reactions we've been seeing the worst the worst finale. No, jeremy
Episode in the history of television i'm gonna say we need
I
It's quite I think I agree
I don't know that there's a worst episode of television
Relative to the tv show it is in
For the season eight episode five. It's a disaster
Oh my yeah, we're robots
Singapore
All right
Singapore saves the day
As usual, can you do some kind of appreciation for singapore sometimes?
Yeah, but for people in chat who have no idea what we're talking about when we say that in discord calls
You have regions that essentially host the the call
And it'll always default to like wherever the most people are. So if it's like two americans and a brit
It'll be in america and vice versa
Um, whenever we turn it to singapore, it just fixes the problem
I don't know why but
Yeah, we like it so it's okay always comes through
People's a good man
It's so step back. Thanks. Singapore. Yeah, we like you
If any y'all in this one's for you the streams for you singapore the stream is sponsored by singapore
It's spring sponsored by singhore space
The worst the worst finale episode in the history of television
I'm gonna say we need to take a step back as a culture and take a look as a culture
Geez, that's a culture
That's difficult, but all right
As a culture this kind of reaction isn't really exclusive to game of thrones. You look exactly like I think you should
He looks a lot like dale he's like another dale
Yeah, those acros though. Holy cow. He looks kind of like uh, like a dan acroyd's cousin
I can kind of see where you're getting dan acroyd from I can I can kind of see it
But dan acroyd's much more fun than this person's probably going to be
Oh, yeah, and he has amazing crystal skull vodka very smooth. It's filtered with charcoal
Right. Oh diamonds
It's whatever
So this kind of reaction is really exclusive to game of thrones
Fandoms actually have a history of toxic backlash when things don't go their way. It wasn't long
Okay, instantly instantly poisoning the well
Yeah, I mean people's intentions are that it didn't go the way that they wanted
Why do people keep saying that?
It's like you'll just tell there's so many different ways. We're happy for it to go
And then it's always about these properties where they take the ultimate new turn like luke is a coward
gamey lanister
Betrays all of his development denarius kills innocent children. It's like oh you just didn't want that and i'm always sitting like
You just didn't get what you want, man
Why are you framing it this way there are times where that'd be relevant stop picking the worst examples of it
Long ago that pretty much every youtube video was an angry rant about how ryan johnson ruined star wars
More recently you may have seen some really extreme reactions to the trailers for the new cats. Can they have you seen the trailer for the
Could there be an extreme reaction?
Bizarre
I don't know that we can be extreme. It's terrifying
I'd like to the wall better than the cats trailer
I wish we had uh, we had done an e-fat mini for that because like I was stunned
Like I was staring at the screen like what the fuck is this?
This is horrifying
It was a weird one, man
It's made it into this really interesting middle ground where it's too weird for people and then too weird for furries, too
It's yeah the furries. How did you do that? It's too weird for everyone
It's just human enough to be approachable and just not furry enough to where I can't wank to it
So good job. You found the the magical middle ground that nobody likes
The repulsive middle ground that deserves the repulsive middle ground
In ruin star wars more recently we've seen some really extreme reactions to the trailers for the new cats
And the live action sonic the hedgehog just like oh
Come on like the worst
Possible examples. Why is it that rational reactions are now considered extremely?
Like what if i'm going to be crazy, but what if things could actually be shit?
Yeah, like what if in this world we live in there are actually shit things
Do you think there'll ever be an inverse video of this where they're like people are being too positive
Have you seen these trailers coming out and people are just saying oh, I look forward to it. I love it. It looks fantastic
I'm, so excited enough of this
Like no, don't you have a bad one? Just the feelings you don't like people having
You're being toxic let people feel hashtag let people feel
Fuck or way back in 1982 when it was leaked that spock would die in the wrath of con
Trekkies blamed leonard nemoy and even sent him death threats. Yeah
No, there are there are weird people out there
I guess it means that if they have a content that's considered very good like the wrath of con
Um is criticized just like season eight game of thrones. That means that none of it was bad either good
Yeah, like, you know what else was criticized this other thing
Well, that's your criticism doesn't count
Spock dying that wasn't really like a part of
Plot weirdness or anything, right? It was just it was something that you know, well, that's kind of what i'm trying to highlight
is the
Where the complaints would have been for different reasons different context different people
It's like we should probably look into the details instead of drawing it out so far that everything everything so broad
That it all looks the same like oh, yeah, someone criticized an apple someone criticized wrath of con
You know, what's wrong with an apple? What's wrong with nothing? They're both fine
Apple's a good fear. Yeah, it's these antifruit sentiments
Exactly. It's weird. He's trying to conflate like horrifying character designs to you know
People being mad that you're they're killing a character that they love but it's like, you know
He's just grouping in like death threats and then actual criticism
Yeah
You guys it's all bad moving on. It's like no
Like roll that back buddy
The sonic got a lot of death threats
Yeah, kill sonic
I don't know where you live sonic, but i'm gonna fucking find you and i'm not gonna catch you
But i'm gonna kill you people just wanted that creature to be put out of its misery. Did you see it?
It looks horrible. He's blamed leonard nemoy and even sent him death threats
Just last year the last jedi's kelly marie train
Allegedly that's what they did. Yeah, this is the thing even me
Trying to highlight that this is not an argument that supports
Toxic fandom. It just supports that there'd be toxic individuals at best
Um, it's not even people don't even proof for this
Like and people are upset that I had even repeated the story without acknowledging that there was no proof
You just went off instagram. Why does this get peddled everywhere?
That's just an easy it's easy to go to what if somebody left oh
This would have happened by the way. What if somebody left a platform because they got too much like
Appreciation or love like too many people sending messages saying like you're amazing. I love your where are you?
Can I meet you? I want signatures?
You mean like it went to their heads?
Uh, no, like they're like I can't stand this amount of bombardment
I need to leave like even if it's positive and what i'm getting at is that would there be a video being like the toxic
Lovedom stop it. No, I think it's just the nature of support is such that it wouldn't really happen
I'm sure there's gonna be somebody who's overloaded just by the the stress of having that many people wanting to speak to you
Like is that kind of what keanu reeves is going through probably
It must be hard to stay humble as keanu reeves
Yeah, I got keanu reeves is freaking an angel
We don't deserve him. Um, but yeah, this this whole
Story i'm always every time people bring it i'm like, so this is proof of what what does this prove?
What does it prove even if kelly mary tran did leave instagram because people were mean what does that prove?
As kelly mary tran was bullied off social media because fanboys didn't like the character and boys
Women wouldn't have been men of course
Yeah, women love the character women thought that kelly mary tran accurately represented the kind of woman that they wanted to be I guess
Mm-hmm
Every young woman wants to grow up to be fucking rose tiko
They want to learn how to drive just like her
Yeah, now look I know a quick minority. Ah, I realized negative opinion
I'm not the same as bullying
But I do have to ask
How much of this is constructive?
Do people understand does it have to be constructive to be criticism? What do they say? They just fucking hate it
And people usually say that constructive criticism is almost like a subset of criticism. So
Isn't it more important for the criticism to be valid rather than constructive?
Not to say that we shouldn't value constructive criticism, too
But the idea that you point out what is wrong and explain why it's wrong without suggesting how to fix it. Is that so bad?
Yeah, like if you just identify something that's bad even if you don't have a fix for it
You're like, yeah, this was shit that had happened because such and such reasons like that's still
Besides he's already highlighted that the people who think they know better than the writers are already a bad thing. So
You shouldn't really suggest fixes of course because that'll be very presumptuous of you
Yeah to think that you're better than the writers like I'll remember that next time you ever criticized anything ever made. Yeah
It wasn't made for you ranks you just have to understand that
Like oh so you whenever you criticize a show or criticize a shot or a camera angle or anything
We're just gonna say oh you just you're just presuming that you know more than the people who are professionals
Who do this for a living who make movies?
I imagine can't believe that you did that
The first mistake is just lumping it all together and treating it as one like person
If it's like representative
So like every every one of the worst things that you would have seen as this person
And being like that kind of criticism is bad and it's just like which which one are you talking about who where?
Is really important to separate them out because they're not all the same
And the thing they're criticizing
And are we maybe overreacting? No
What is the correct reaction to have for me?
Love and love only
Yeah, um
Overreaction would be doing things like killing people burning property
Riots in the streets like yeah, that would be overreacting, but it's a show so going on the internet and saying that it's shit is
pretty reasonable
Mm-hmm. Just like
I'd like to just have a chart, you know, it's like so I watched the episode and I go
That annoyed me and he's like he looks me he's like, okay
You do it again. I'm like that fucking annoyed me and he's like, you know, whoa
That's just about acceptable. We can't go any further than that. I'm like why though?
Like well because I don't like it
What if you're having a stupid reaction to my reaction, huh, what about that?
I don't
Oh part one one of her you can you can
You can fucking hate something. I think anybody can fucking hate anything. The only
Uh thing I could say that has like any validity is like maybe like a mob mentality
Where people don't actually believe this or don't actually have this feeling and then they jump in there and say well
Yeah, I hate it too. Just because everyone hates it
Yeah, those are fucking idiots, but you can just you can just hate something just outright like yeah, I don't fucking like it
I mean that was the thing about rags jumping on the
Arguably the hate train of game of thrones. I was just like i'm gonna show you the episode and you're just like this
Fucking bad like from a perspective of someone who's never even watched the show
It's just like this. It was episode three episode three came out. They're like rags. You need to understand my pain right now
I need to share in my sorrow
This is the thing you didn't need to see any other episodes to see how piss poor the the tactics were
Because I
Watched it with fortier and wolf and the first thing I said was like why the fuck is the cavalry the front line?
Uh, that's strange. Why are the by the um
The bat trebuchet is the second line. That's even stranger. It was like
You know just concerned that's all just just like and then they'll die and you're like, okay
Because you don't want to judge until you've at least seen the episode, right?
Yeah
No pain. Yeah, obviously if this guy was here with me, he'd be like you're overreacting. Stop it
It's hard to talk about fandoms without generalizing people because everyone responds to a story in their own way
Some people love and who are you to say that our way to respond is not valid?
I'm curious if he's going to address that like I wonder if
I imagine it'll be like liking is okay. Loving is okay. Just liking is okay. Hating is okay, but
Kind of weird line
This is the thing we draw lines to like balls to violence. For example, it would be like what the hell are you doing?
Like you hate the show enough to try and hit people obviously. It's like whoa, but I doubt that's what he's talking about
Yeah, and it sounds like he's generalizing too like the whole fandom
Yeah, it seems like he just pointed out the youtube videos that were made on it
Mm-hmm. I always feel like that's what fuel these
They they hate all the youtube videos being critical and they try and pick the worst things the worst people
Try and represent the whole
Oh, yeah, I can go out and find a youtube comment that says anything
Like this guy said I should die. It's like all right. Give me an rags of sack. We'll go find one for ourselves
Without generalizing people because everyone responds to a story in their own way
Some people loved the ending some hated it some hated the ideas and others did some people love it
I I honestly like trying to be fair here. I didn't see anybody say that they loved the ending of season eight. Yes
Yes, as a matter of fact people
My stupid fucking asshole ex-roommate who is a piece of shit and I hate him
But but not because he's like a great guy
But not because he hated the last season. It's just because he's a bad person. Anyway, I was gonna say to clarify
I don't think it's impossible or anything. It's just that I didn't really see any of that
Um, I saw a shit ton of like loving for tlj
But season eight game of thrones not really like the best I saw was like it was all right
I saw people tolerate it tolerate. Yeah
I could put up with this I suppose
There is hated the way they were executed
Obviously not everything I say can apply to every single person
So in order to be objective i'm gonna be a nerd and start with some graphs to be objective me. Uh-oh
A downfall of game of thrones
This is just user ratings averaged out I guess
Um
Whoa, what happened at season five? Oh man, let's uh, have a look at which episode that it says one two three four five six
Five
What happened?
Unbowed unbent unbroken is this
I get a plot summary
get a
oh
Winterfell, oh, this is the one where ramsey rapes sancer
Uh-oh that one got huge controversy
People went crazy over that. I remember that
Basically, like people didn't because people didn't want that to happen to sancer basically
Um, okay
But it wasn't because like the writing just blew out a whack or anything, right?
I'd have to see what the arguments were. I can't remember if people were saying it was
Poor writing or if it was
uh
Like I don't know if they'd say like disgusting writing
It wasn't for the rape scene in general or because theon didn't do shit because he was watching. Um
I'd have to check. Honestly, i'd have to look at well, let's let's do it. Um
I mean it's lower than the season eight episode. Yeah, that's why i'm kind of fascinated by this
Yeah, and and I would think if like the writing had had completely like flown out the window in that episode you would see other episodes
Immediately like follow suit, but it looks like this one was way the fuck down and then everything just kind of went back up
Again, was this the one with the bad pussy quote?
Do you know if this is the bad pussy quote?
I love that pussy that quote alone is like dips the episode itself in ratings
All right, I've seen a lot of people love it ratings. Let's go one star rating
Um
So first one complains about sansa second one complies nothing's going anywhere
The show's going too far away from the book
Terrible it's building nothing getting worse. Um
Kind of hard to understand for sure i'd have to rewatch the episode. But yeah, i'd still find that pretty interesting that um
It's the lowest rated episode like you'd think
Okay, well, let's see what he says about this anyway
Looking at the data. There seems to be a distinct sense from the critical community
That game of thrones fell apart in the last three or four episodes. I mean it fell apart
Lillier than that. It was it had its funeral in like season seven season eight was sort of
I don't even know what you'd call it. What kind of metaphor. It's zombie corpse crawling out of the grave
Stamped on his head. It's like get back corpse of thrones was pretty uh, pretty much a letdown
Now people were pretty happy about the first and second episode right like it was okay
On season eight, sorry
When it came to like the first and second episodes of season eight people like this is the thing. Um
The show was definitely damaged, but there was still plenty of characters left that people cared about
So it was like we'll still watch it through it through to the end and the white walkers that was finally coming to a head
So it was like oh cool
All this time because they were introduced in literally the first scene of the entire show. It's like oh cool
And then they ruined everything
Yep, I like that the episode three reigns 73 because that's that's where everything went wrong and it's like people like yay
yay
And then the next episode which is
pretty like
It's just stupid a lot of stupid things happen
And people like I think that a lot of the souring of the third episode
Bled into the fourth for sure as well as the fourth being bad
But then the fifth one happened. It was all over
I'm gonna have to look at the audience scores of these though because I I like those are way more interesting
They're probably lower i'd imagine or at least i'd hope oh absolutely
Absolutely
Before that the show was mostly a critical hit
But was this sudden drop-in score is actually fair. Um, oh no
He says it's not fair. I mean it was the worst season for sure
So I don't know seems fair to me to depict organic. Let me draw it back a bit
But was this sudden drop-in score is actually fair
For me the show had been struggling for years to depict organic character development and realistic politics
And to be frank the books game of thrones is based on are way too dense and expansive to be accurately adapted to television
I I think that's not people's problems necessarily. No one ever said they didn't adapt it because of a length issue
yeah, I feel like he's
Going down a path that's not relevant really. It's just like
Couldn't put everything in the book in the show or the book is too vast or complicated for everything and it's just like that's not
You know what issues people have like why are you going this way?
Yeah, and that's the thing. It's all like people work on some of them
Yeah, people were having problems with things steering away from the books if they were having such a problem with it adapting poorly
Then they wouldn't have bitched about that
Yeah
The problems so many had with the ending are problems i've been seeing for a while now
And so i'd come to look at the show as kind of a preview for the books
While I understand people's frustration with certain sloppily handled twists
I'm also kind of just over it and preferred good for you
Okay, what does this have to do with people?
Also, I find it
It almost seemed like an excuse like hey
Books are better. The show was kind of bad already
But it's fine
Oh, he's he's very much downplaying the negative aspects of it. Yeah, if anything, he's showing Daenerys on the right bit sooner
Yeah
Yes, there are plot holes after showing Daenerys about to kill millions of children
How do you play that you can't don't play that
Kind of just over it and prefer to focus more on the core ideas
like
What does the ending say about moral certitude and the glorification of war more moral certitude?
Have ever heard that word before certitude? Yeah, I got nothing
One sec i'm just looking into it absolute certainty or conviction. All right. Hey
I've I've honestly never heard that before. Um, I went over this in my video though, like
The idea that
No matter what team you're on they're going to commit evil acts
It's like they handled it so rushedly in that fifth episode
And in ways that just are confusing
Like this army turn up they've won the enemy team surrender. You barely even got to fight
And then you're like nah, fuck it. Let's kill and rape them like
Guys you all nearly died recently to save the world
This is weird. Okay, you need to you need to do this in a way. That's a lot more smooth than just
We're over prepared. We're winning beyond a shadow of a doubt and then suddenly like I could go for some rapein
guys
I love me some rape
And then the casual rape the one that on the clock
Like the one that kills it for me is the guy who tries to get past john in order to rape
Yeah, dude pushes him away attacks him got a rape got a rape
Embarrassing and so it's like yeah, but what about the idea and i'm like, I don't care about your idea
It's about how you execute it. Yeah of rape
I mean at least they believe in something right
Yeah, seriously
more on the core ideas like
What does the ending say about moral certitude and the glorification of war or about power redemption?
How to be glorification of war within that episode considering it's like horrific
Yeah
Yeah, anybody was really talking. I don't think yeah, I don't think anyone's like yeah war is awesome
I don't think it's ever been that way
The show even
I've never heard anybody really make that argument. They're like what happened to my characters
Yeah, he's like, oh yeah, I know this plot holes, but listen man you talk about the themes and you're like, ah
Or about power redemption and choice
In the backlash these bigger discussions. No one
Not even talking about them. People don't have an issue with a lot of this shit
Well, you know what I challenge them just explain to me why those things are so interesting
And you're going to use references about characters making certain decisions in certain places
And then i'm going to counter with how inconsistent it all is and how much it doesn't make sense
And so your theme is broken then what?
I wonder if you would just be like, okay, but you're missing the point and i'd be like, you know
You're missing the point like these the details
Maketh the the big picture
In the backlash these bigger discussions aren't really being had
Yet the showrunners that fans are now calling dumb and dumber
That's from anomaly actually
The same ones who've been writing the show since season one and had been yeah, well, so if you did something good
You can't do something bad
Do you think look look at ridley scott
My go-to example pretty much every time so i'm sorry the man-made alien and prometheus
Well alien alien covenant. I should probably just say
right
Yeah, but the yeah, but but but but
I mean you're better than you think you know more than the writers mauler
This is oh, this is got you there and gee
Is battle of the bastards this only example here
But and that wasn't actually very good
Is me i'll tell you what people like battle of the bastards uh for the spectacle and the fact characters
Got to do what they should be doing
Right, like you could have
Uh denier you could have had everybody do what they're supposed to do in the end of season eight or at least
Wherever wants their characters to go in an awful way and they still love it
like, um
Let's just say you're like, oh ramsey's got to be killed by john because of course that would happen then and then you go
Or sansa that could work too
And if you just have it so they spawned both of them on a field
They ran up to each other and just had a fist fight until ramsey was a pile of blood
There would have been plenty of people who were like, man, that was awesome
There would be some people like us being like that was dumb as fuck. What the hell?
What i'm trying to say is like battle of the bastards had a bunch of payoffs that people
Absolutely adored because they wanted to see it john beat the shit out of him
He was fed to the dogs by sansa. The north is retaken by the starks. Like these are things that
said
Everybody's least favorite people do remember his name
But yeah, you know the mechanics of the fight can absolutely be criticized. Uh heavily
Yeah, of course the fans were happy because those things fall away when the characters are
Maintain integrity we didn't get anything in season eight all of it was in the bin
Dumber are the same ones who've been writing the show since season one
And had been he should be saying adapting the show instead of writing it
Then it's a lot of the great dialogue from the show is taken from the books
A lot of the the way that it's structured is taken from the books and a lot of people will say
It started to fall apart the second they stopped using it as reference material
So yeah, I think there's a lot of arguments to be made about their quality as writers actually especially didn't one of them
write x-men origins wolverine
Which is like despised typically especially by Deadpool fans. Uh, yes
oh
Like if we want to talk about track history like you know
receiving critical acclaim
Well after they passed the books as we saw with episodes like battle of the bastards and the winds of winter
The good act does not wash out the bad
Not nor the bad the good so this doesn't support your point
Or about the good though many repeat the mantra that the problem isn't what happened. It's how it was executed
No, it's both
Yeah, it was it was a bad thing bad ideas executed horribly
Um, so you just yeah, it's just that's this is why it's a contender for me for like the worst episode of tv
I've ever seen like I don't think anything can be and it's so it's so crazy
It's possibly the most expensive episode of tv too
I don't you know, that's probably not true from what I know about old tv, but it's probably up there
Oh, yeah, it's just the biggest example of how money can't save you
Yes, I don't think that sentiment captures the full story behind the backlash
And that's not to say that everything was well executed
But to say that for several years fans have been forgiving and even applauding sloppy writing because they liked what was happening
Sloppy writing who were wait, wait, wait, what do you mean sloppy writing? Who are you to say that you know better than the writers, too? Yeah
This guy's clearly for himself, but it's funny though because he's
these things
I like the fans missed this stuff people were complaining about a lot of the writing
Barristan sell me in season five was
Awful what they did with him blackfish so awful what they did with him people despise what they did with stannis
Sansa
He's treating it like there were never any controversies and confusions from the fan base. But once you take so
Daenerys
Tyrion danny and john, they're like the four
Huge protagonists of the show then to a lesser degree Cersei and a couple of others and then the rest
um
And all of them got butchered in one episode
Like of course people are going to be much more
Infuriated by that than having tertiary characters like barristan get fucked up
Just natural and I don't know why he's pretending like nobody had a problem with anything before season eight. It's like that's not the case
For example
The resolution of the slaver's base storyline and the battle of the bastards aren't really set up much better than anything in season eight
They just have more popular outcomes. What changed in the last three episodes is that the outcomes got controversial
Non-sensical they got controversial like the red wedding was controversial
Yeah, he's going to need to define his terms. Yeah, because that's uh,
Controversial controversial could be a lot of things
Yeah
For example many believed that defeating the night king was john's whole arc and insisted
I know why would they believe that? Why would they believe that? Why would they get that crazy idea into their head?
Even the writers believed it. There's that clip where he's like
Yeah, it's it's too obvious to make john kill the night king. We want to we want to surprise people and it's like
Oh
too obvious fucking
Spider-man is gonna fight misteria and then batman comes in and kicks his ass and leaves
It's too obvious for for the ring to be dropped into mount doom instead. It's going to become a penis ring for uh
Any of the characters this is unexpected for sure and I think people will have trouble with it, but it makes the penis disappear
Nothing else though because which happens often when sam and frodo are together
That golem will be crowned the new sauron. That is our vision
Our goal believed that defeating the night king was john's whole arc and insists that john was robbed of his destiny
But even before he encountered the white walkers john's conflict was always framed as love versus duty
The human heart in conflict with itself. His arc is about making difficult choices
Well, then I guess he can't that means he can't kill the night king. I guess he's gonna pigeonhole him
And he's gonna be wrong the idea of love versus duty. How do you explain like?
That that can't possibly relate to if we had gotten some kind of resolution where he killed the night king
No, I I don't know you. No, wait, stop
If we'd gotten some kind of resolution that involved him killing the night king as a result of sacrificing somebody
For example what they seem to be doing in the episode if you remember
He was he goes past all of the people that he cares about in order to get to the night king
I was like, oh
That would be the biggest payoff you can make for john snow
He ignores all of the people he loves in order to do the right thing for the world. That's pretty great. You know
In terms of where he's been going
I'm just waiting for him to try to say like see it couldn't work for john snow, you know, love versus duty. Yeah
He lets sam die. He looks right at him. He's like not what do you mean?
He knew sam would survive that sam's armor is enormous. He's like a tank. He's like the war manga machine
He can literally cry and zombies will stop going for him because they'll feel guilty
How incredible is that? He's just chilling that nightwalker orgy. He's all good to go
But
Self his arc is about making difficult choices not accomplishing great feats. What what?
What?
Um, it's not about accomplishing great feats. He fucking took wind to fell back. He took the wildlings over the wall
he like
He protected
Asshole black from a wildling attack. He took charge of it. He became the night's what how can you say this?
You're a bad man
You have to be watching the show
He just makes hard choices he doesn't really do anything other than that like no
His work is about making difficult choices
Not accomplishing great feats and in that john is still a chosen hero
It's just that his heroism isn't supposed to be cool or honorable or even triumphant
The point is not doing the right thing isn't always totally awesome
What are you kidding stabbing that bitch was awesome
I was going to say she's a she's a child
Genocideist I think it's all right that he stabbed her to be honest
And it was awesome. He unironically said we decide what's good
I just sorry mcqueen
And so the lightning mcqueen
Hey, let me let me throw him back actually I should probably do some kind of kiddo quote there
something
The point is that doing the right thing isn't always totally awesome. All right, there you go
Totally awesome. Did you guys know that?
Um doing the right thing is totally awesome because jesus
it's funny because like
That line could probably be in a good video i'm just gonna put it in a random point of kiddo
People will know this reference to this video, but like
He's saying it as if it makes sense now that john doesn't fight the night
Why would it have been totally awesome for him to let a bunch of his friends die to kill the night king?
Why would that be something that he would just immediately go like woohoo?
This is the best thing ever while he looks at the offices of his friends
I just like he's saying it like this. They had to be this way or something
Isn't always totally awesome that kind of subversion is classic game of thrones classic game of thrones
Getting something stupid happened is classic game
I just want to do the test on him
You know the the lucan and nappy flying around the universe test
There's like how far do I have to go with subverting your expectations before you go?
Maybe this is stupid
I'd be like yes
We got there with him eventually
You
The beginning ned's arc seemed to be going south to become hand of the king and solve the mystery of john aaron's murder
You don't need to tell me about how in season one something happened that people found surprising
Okay
Stop it. Yet. Not only does ned die
He also never figures out who the real killer was
The true arc was ned's inner struggle and like john the legacy of his actions on the world isn't immediately apparent
Ask me again in 10 years
Not all but so many of the complaints around the final season come down to some form of this isn't what I expected
No, you can't pull the same shit with the last jedi. You can't just say oh, I didn't expect this therefore
It's bad. No, it's it's as we've said time and time and time and time again ad nauseam
It's not because we didn't get something that we didn't expect is that what we got was shit
It didn't make any sense and it was inconsistent
But it wasn't what you wanted though, you can't deny that right?
I didn't want shit. So I guess if you want to though, I can summarize in saying you just didn't want
Well, that's what i'm gonna do kind of amazing how you explain it to these people right to their face
And they still they still think it's all about expecting and unexpected. It's like no dude
Were you listening to a goddamn thing? Anybody had said to you so far?
It's amazing. Well, you see everybody when they watched empire strikes back. They were like, oh, I hope vader's luke's father
Because otherwise fuck this movie. Like i'm not watching it if that's not the case
Then it happened. They were like, yay. This is exactly what I wanted
John would set the iron throne to the belief that jamie's ending would be more heroic
Which leads us to question
Why did the audience have the expectations they did?
And what is it about subverted expectations? That's so hard to accept. No
It's stop it
A different path
I swear to god ryan johnson that you're a witch
ryan johnson and dnd have ruined subverted expectations like there are plenty of writers out there that use it
to great effect
And it's just ruined because they keep saying it's like you just don't like that style of writing
It's like that's not what you did
You're just fucked up
You're hiding behind it
Part two what if game of thrones was never meant to be popular
What
You think hbo was like yeah, we're gonna greenlight your show hopefully it won't be popular well
You fucking idiot fandom i'm just wait wait, let's hear him out guys. Let's hear him out
Well, i'm just gonna say like i'm so curious as to where he's gonna go with this because like where could this possibly go?
What if game of thrones was never meant to be popular?
um
All right
Do it
Throughout its eight-year run game of thrones became what can only be described as a landmark television drama
Pushing the limits of what a show could accomplish in terms of scope and story and gaining popularity approaching that of star wars
Harry potter or the marvel cinematic universe
Simply put the show reached mainstream status
Which is complicated
So for those who don't know game of thrones is based on this series of gritty fantasy novels by george r martin
Who'd previously been known for writing really weird niche sci-fi filled with telepathic hive minds body snatching and space
Catholicism the books as well as the early seasons trade out straightforward character arcs and cathartic victories for messy
Soul crushing realism i say this to point out that unlike star wars harry potter or the mcu
Martin's story was probably never meant to be a big crowd pleaser
That's not what
When you say crowd pleaser and popular you're gonna have to tell me what you mean now because
There's so much wrong with everything. He's just said i'm just trying to figure out what i want to tackle first. Um
so
harry potter and star wars
the the idea that
They are big crowd pleasers because they don't have moments
That are like really sad or bad in them
Be like, you know, that's wrong
um
Infinity war like part of what blew people away in that was you ended the movie
To what is one of the biggest audiences ever like for a piece of media
With a bunch of very popular superheroes being killed
Kind of just like wow
and uh
Like we were talking about it when it first happened
It's like yeah
My audience was dead silent a lot of them were they were just kind of in awe that they did that because uh
You know you people was like, oh they're gonna come back. It's like yeah
Well, plenty of people at that point did not believe that shit
And um, you know, you can make the same argument for game of thrones because resurrection is in the universe
um
I just disagree dramatically with all of this and he's citing a part of the show that hasn't even happened in the books
um, i'm not gonna say it won't happen in the books, but people
Definitely need more reasoning for why stannis would do this to his daughter. This is one of the fucking parts that piss everyone off
conversely
A wide-scale audience watching the red wedding you can go and check it on youtube
There's a bazillion reaction videos of people being blown away by it
And I would always argue that it's because it made sense
All the pieces fit rob was fucking up
The boltons are not to be trusted
Tywin has been sending letters all over the place. The phrase will betrayed everything slots in so you're just like oh
But like stuff like this
Just comes out of fucking nowhere. If anything it comes out of anti-matter shouldn't be happening. Yeah
It's one it's one thing to be surprised and shocked and then it's another thing to be like why the fuck did that just happen, huh?
Were audiences happy when dumbledore was killed in harry potter? That's like the end of one of them, right? The seventh one sixth one
This is like it ends that way and harry potter's like super upset
And we only find out later in another film that that had reasoning behind it that was
You know is contextual for a lot of other things that we didn't know
It was just not like his whole point was that um
What if it wasn't supposed to be popular? What if it was supposed to only have a niche audience that appreciate being?
Fucked over like basically like it was supposed to be like by people who hate stuff
I've never heard the argument that what if it was never supposed to be popular as a defense for why it's bad
and
And the way he developed it was not um
If people are saying spoilers, you're kidding me. Yeah spoiling harry potter. Give me a break
I mean snape kills dumbledore was a goddamn meme of like what was it like two thousand? I spoiled star wars too
spoiled
the um
The luke is leah's father. I spoiled that so
Fucking up all over the place apparently
Jay hasn't seen harry potter jay's seen harry potter. Hasn't he? No way surely
I know I shouldn't say that about anything but still trolling maula kills dumble rags
This is efap even maths gets spoiled here. Oh, yeah, we did talk about maths for like a good
Uh, what if game of thrones was never meant to be good. That's what the gedel quote will be
You shouldn't play this clip this clip pissed off the fan base so fucking much yeah even
And just the idea was like see but that's the point the show was trying to piss you off or something like that
away
But with the growing popularity of the show
Season six and seven saw benny f and wyce shift gears to a more mainstream narrative
There were probably a lot of reasons for this some business
We're trying to end the show so they start converging all plot lines into one big chunky one by the end
Yep, people loved it
You know, we really thought it was very satisfying to make tons of sense
Fucking plot line kidnapping a zombie and taking it to socio lattices like the stupidest thing that ever happened
Related others to do the challenges of adaptation
But the story that once built up joffrey as a villain for four seasons only to have him poisoned by a relatively minor character
Became the show that gave
Relatively minor character little finger and
Thorns those are two very significant characters
He said he does know that two people poisoned him right not one
As awkward as a game of thrones super fan
But the story that once built up joffrey as a villain for four seasons only to have him poisoned by a relatively minor character
Became the show that gave every victory to the fan favorite character that most wanted it
So, of course people expected john and danny to achieve their goals together. Well, they still gave i a
A huge victory as i'd explain that
He had to kill the night king. He's like a huge fan favorite
Of course they expected jamey to save king's landing from surcy
They just watched sauncy not even
There's a lot of different. Why do you think people would expect things? Why why would people have expectations?
Surely is it based on things they've seen before?
I
Just like the idea the next avengers movie tony stock's just in it and he's like people expected him to not be in this film
See their expectations were subvid and that's why they didn't enjoy it. And you're like, no
So execute her rapist and aria assassinate everyone who took part in the red wedding
And grayworm kill the slave masters and the stark kids avenged their dad
Yeah, we I have problems with each of those actually
Um to a degree some of them are easier than others but having watching sansa and ayah
idiots kill little finger or
Don't remind me that that one did not go over well with people as well
This is why I keep thinking back to him being like sudio's bad writer before people were completely well. That's like oh they were
Yeah
We're very upset about this
He's going at this at the assumption that people just didn't expect it over and over again
The thing is like he's completely going off the path of people who are you know, who find things really?
you know out there and
Uh, i'm i'm just fried right now i'm trying to come up with words and I can't
Suddenly we were being given a steady stream of good triumphing over evil and people were eating it up
so when we got to the messy george armbaughton conclusion audiences were jarred by the
Isn't that kind of?
So he's arguing like we had a bunch of good triumphing of evil
But then we got our george armbaughton thing
It's like isn't the very good triumphing over evil is already counter to your assumption that everything is george armbaughton style
Yeah, I thought it wasn't supposed to be popular because it wasn't like that
Yeah, if we get two seasons of this stuff that we're not supposed to even be getting then shouldn't you isn't that an issue?
Then the the the show is clearly inconsistent with itself
I don't know. It seems like a really weird meandering point
So when we got to the messy george armbaughton conclusion audiences were jarred by the lack of cathartic victory
No, hold up. What do you mean the messy george?
Rr. Martin conclusion just the fact that it was dark and grim
So it's like a george rr martin conclusion just because of that. Yes, so why is he calling it that?
I mean george arm they were beyond the books at this point george had nothing to do with it at that point
Well, there's we will we will find out
but
The the narrative is that gave them all the plot points
And that um a lot of people assume that what happens at the end of season eight is what happens gonna happen in george's books
It's just the the way they got there was rushed and stupid while he's probably going to develop it all
um
Who knows what he'll do now because he's seen how fans have reacted to everything. I can't imagine he's bought that in his work
Yeah, then he says he's gonna make it mega different and shit when he gets the books out
so yeah, who knows what we'll get but um
I don't really know what to say george armbaughton writes victories for characters. It happens
George armbaughton conclusion audiences were jarred by the lack of cathartic victory
Thus came a flood of emotions from the fandom people were upset by the execution and content of what happened
And it became hard to draw the line where one feeling ended and the other began
okay, so people stopped looking past flaws in the show's execution like they used to
And instead fixated on directly. Well, you have to remember there's no repairing anymore because it's the end
So say something really bad happens. You'd be like, well, maybe next season we'll try and like redirect fix it up
Nope, that's all you got
Joy brand is king now for some reason
He brought it on makes sense he has the best story
After all people don't need much justification for stuff like john is king now or danny is finally coming to westeros
Like they do for jamie goes back to syrsi
We actually saw this already with stannis baratheon whose tragic ending received highly polarized reactions
I thought you said that people weren't complaining about the earlier seasons. This is live. Yeah
Yeah
Depending on whether or not viewers had high hopes for the character with his fans accusing about high hopes
I don't care if he dies as long as it makes sense. There's the fact that he killed his daughter
Go away in the show runners unintentional character assassination
And what happened with stannis is now happening on a much larger scale with much more popular characters
While we can say that the tragedies of nett catlin and rob were better set up
It's also important to recognize that thanks to online spoilers
Most people knew those characters were doomed within a month of starting the show
um
I'm sorry. I just can't agree with that the the the amount of people who are blown away by the red wedding despite it having been
knowledgeable things you could find out about for like a decade
was still insane and
And what percentage of the game of thrones audience is going to actively go and look at leaks online?
Oh, look at the books. Yeah, they didn't want to they were like, no, I want to see the show vision
um
I just like I can't agree with them because I was there I remember where I was when I saw that fun
It's that episode it's season three episode nine. It's um
Youtube was going nuts
People were just like this video is going up everywhere of compilations and reactions and just talking about how insane that was it wasn't
Well, you know, we saw it coming so it's
Like people would set up cameras to record their family watching the episodes
And it's like really fun shit to watch because they'll just be like no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, please
So those deaths didn't really betray people's idea of who those characters were or shatter their expectations for what the story was
Are you suggesting that if we read that denarius killed a bunch of innocent children, we'd be okay with it
Like if it was in the books already
Because we wouldn't expect
We wouldn't have our expectations subverted in the movie
It would just be subverted in a different place and we'd be saying oh no these leaks came out and there's no way they're real
These are totally fake. There's no way they're actually doing this. It happened in the books. So you can't complain
Not gonna work
Supposed to be
Take the new star wars
The force awakens contains scenes which bait its audience to wonder about stuff like ray's parents or snoke's origins
But since disney never had a big picture plan for those plot threads, it's not even
First time one maybe that's the problem
Yeah, I know the I don't disagree with that
But if you were brought in to write the sequel to force awakens
You don't need disney to tell you what their plans for snoke were if they tell you can do whatever you want
Still write his history
You'll do whatever you want ryan didn't want it
He's just like fuck it and as far as we know we've been told
But there were plans that uh daisy ridley said that jj had outlines for episode eight and nine
He had like guidelines for what everything was in ryan was just like no i'm good
Which is why people keep asking about jj is like jj you're repairing this he's like
I'll just make my own shit. I don't know fuck it
Like red led me to talk about it's just like he literally in an interview said fuck it
I'm just gonna fucking do whatever I want. Fuck it
He's clearly inspired by ryan johnson stuff like ray's parents or snoke's origins
Maybe there should be a new rule. By the way, everything comes back to tlj when it comes to talking about
I don't know like opinions
Criticism yeah always comes back to tlj
Certainly seem to keep coming back to here
But since disney never had a big picture plan for those plot threads
Ryan johnson decided they weren't narratively important and ditched them in the last jedi
This made sense for his vision
But was a bummer for fan theorists who spent two years building their own headcanons around those questions
Oh, man, dude with emphasis on
Silly said doo-doo
it
And mystery game of thrones actually engages in way more of this kind of theory baiting
With a fan community that's built on piles of online theory discussions and it satisfied loads of theories
like
who cold hands was it's pretty much confirmed or um
the purpose behind a lot of the
Yeah, raven shit maybe that's like more of a 50 50 but um john getting resurrection there's loads of stuff
And it's just that a lot of other things that were set up that
All the pieces were there just don't do a thing and you're like, oh
okay
I think that
You have to have a reason for things to to arbitrarily not happen or happen
It's it's really neat when we have reasons for things to happen. Just
I feel like he's about to say
For millions
Speculating about game of thrones was a key part of enjoying it
Trust me as a guy who once wrote a weirdly popular fan theory about brand possessing john's dead body
I know how it is
And while that speculation was key to putting together a dedicated
He's like, I mean my thought that theory got a lot of traction just like anyway moving on with the point fandom
It also led to fans taking it unwarranted
Ah free folk that sense of ownership over the story to get a sense of ownership
Hate this attitude where it's like
Anytime you you you understand a character or at least you've you've
Seen what their limits are how they choose things someone else is just like, oh you think you own them?
no
You have a best friend
You're probably going to be very aware of what they will and will not do and how they will or will not react to things
Same thing
But once we get enough information about a character
We're certain that they will or will not do certain things and when they do the opposite we get pissed
Even deeper into it various fan communities even developed vastly different head cannons
And would ridicule each other over their wildly different and as it turns out equally incorrect expectations
So people have difficulty accepting that john's parentage is meant to subvert the secret lineage trope revealing or accepting that
Oh, yeah
Come around there. I'm kind of waiting for him to make more of a point. So people have the problem is he's he's completely
He's completely straight from the points that everyone else is making and it just seems like this is
It's entirely pointless to even respond to anything you're saying because he's not even addressing anything anybody's saying so
And do you about to like say like oh, it's subverted your expectation that john's lineage being a huge reveal
Isn't actually of any importance. I just be like, uh
Like they put all this effort into hiding it it's a secret that starts as early as john was born
Got ties to like a huge amount of significant characters
It allows him to have the primary take on on the throne
Like it's just like always like yeah, you thought it would be important. Well, it's not and just like wow
That's it. That's all you got. It's very post-hoc because they could have absolutely had it be
Massively important and then you'd be sitting here being like well, you see it was set up
Yeah
You know that works you just either it's set up and it pays off which is fine or it sets up and doesn't pay off
Which is also fine because that's the very expectations
So I mean about like how it feels like just a defense anytime there's contradictive or stupid writing you should go
Just subvert your expectations. That's all it did
Yeah
That john's parentage is meant to subvert the secret lineage trope revealing it to be a burden rather than a solution
Or accepting that the night king being defeated before the end is meant to reframe the dark lord trope
From being an external evil to an internal consequence of the pursuit of power
But it wasn't that was completely but the white workers were completely external to everything happening. That was
What it was so external. In fact, they were wiped out and nobody really noticed
Nobody cared
It was just a quick side thing and then they went off to sersey
he's uh summing all these like events and things up in the story very like
with what I would call flowery language and um
Subverting tropes. He's not talking about any of the mechanics
Just sort of like addressing it. Yeah, it's all flowery themie
tropey
Like it because if he was here, I'd just be like can we start stop on one of those
Let's go over this one. You said all this stuff. Let's see how you got there and then
Feel the contradictive information like yeah, but it's the beautiful ideas. You guys are considering the beautiful ideas
Accepting that jamie's story is an exploration of the limits of redemption arcs
But we also have to bear in mind that martin came up with this. It's so meta guys
It's so fucking where the internet had developed into what it is today
So we can't blame him for not expecting fans to come to the conclusions that they did
We can't blame him only so many times only so many times you can say that's not what we're saying
Yeah, that's true. Let me get that sentence again though came up with this stuff in the 90s
Well before the internet had developed into what it is today
So we can't blame him for not expecting fans to come to the conclusions that they did
I'm blaming
A little bit soupy to me. I'm having a lot of trouble trying to retain and repeat it
Yeah, he's like he's trying to say like oh because people's fan theories weren't confirmed then they're mad at george r martin for it
It's like dude. Where are you going?
I
Mean he's spent a long time trying to repeat the point that you just didn't get what you wanted. Okay?
Like that's not what it is. Stop saying
But it's fan entitlement that causes literally one hundred percent of misunderstanding being blamed on the writers
Well, literally 100. It's all fan entitlement
What if what if the right let me it like what if the writers are actually shit?
I'm trying to like so he said 100 of misunderstandings of fan entitlement
Is he saying that a misunderstanding can never be on the writer?
Is it possible for a writer to misunderstand their own character over the course of eight years?
Nope
Okay, impossible. You just don't know that you you uh, you don't know writing like writers do so no
Like man
Oh get him off the pedestal for fuck's sake. Yeah, they wrote it doesn't mean they're gods
Yeah, what if a different like, you know, he literally said that denarius kind of forgot about the iron fleet
How do you do that?
Even though it was announced in the same episode
It's
And you have this guy being like, you know, hey, he wrote the character he would know
It's like are you kidding me?
It's funny because like you'd think
Oh, you're gonna have to try and find an example of a writer really being an idiot with their character
I'm like, I don't have to look very far. It's basically the most popular meme about dnd right now. So there you go
Danny wasn't listening
Point are most people accepting that they might have been wrong about anything
This is because people have projected their own ideas where the story was headed onto the world and characters and interpreted everything based on those
expectations
Basically i'm saying that people tend to forgive a story that's sloppily done if it gives them what they want
Yeah, you said that already
And I I don't necessarily disagree with the idea that people will forgive sloppy right and if their characters
Still behave the way they expect them to
Yeah, but that's not what happened in season eight at all. I know that he knows that and but
um
The fundamental he's missing here is that there was a hell of a lot of criticism of the previous seasons
Still not like people ignored these problems
But those same people get hyper critical if a story subverts their expectations in a way that's upsetting
So I guess his point is
That if they're both sloppy right both approaches if one of them is what was expected
It's okay. If one of them was not what was expected, then it's not okay
Sometimes people are really irritated with with seeing something that they expected would happen
They're like, oh boring. I saw this coming a mile away
Yeah
And it's just uh, it's so much more complicated than he's making it sound
Tube callout
I'm sure a lot of you have seen think stories how game of thrones should have ended
In this video think story recites his fan fiction of how the story should have played out
Abandoning everything subversive and instead just playing out all the most popular fan theories abandoning everything subversive. It's got to be subversive
It's so insane
I'd like the idea that you know, lord the rigs did end as tismy as we were saying earlier
And then this guy says, you know how it should have ended?
We should have had Frodo like reaching the right at the end of the journey and he's very conflicted
But he realizes that he's become something like golem if he doesn't
Commit to the action with support from sam. We have aragorn leading
the remainder of all of
Men and warriors including all of the characters who come to love
directly into the black gate to distract sauron and um, you know, whatever else and then he's just like
Don't you isn't that all obvious though?
Aragorn being heroic
Frodo dropping the ring into the volcano. So can you not try and think outside the box just a little bit?
This is why I think we've said this before but it's like jesus christ
I'm in the mood for some stories that are predictable. I'm tired of all this shit
Yeah, it means that there are logical
Results of the things that we see on screen. Yeah, like it's kind of cool being rewarded for paying attention. It's really neat
like
Boromir tried to take the ring off Frodo, which is pretty expected considering how tismy's been about the ring this whole time
Why can you subvert us and have him just be an angelic creature that flies to the volcano?
But i'm way better
Shitty arguments
Jamie kills cersei bran gets stuck in the night king's memories
Don't think that a lot of viewers really thought that was gonna happen
That's much more of a critical thinking like
Because the biggest thing people had for this was how they look kind of similar facial structure wise like oh
Going from there. What else can we draw from it?
What I mean, he highlights all these different fan theories
And he's like they were all conflicting and they were all wrong and it's like yeah, you're right. They were all wrong
Nobody predicted that denarius was gonna kill hundreds of thousands of innocent people
You know why?
Why do you think nobody made that prediction?
Like do you know why?
Because nobody appreciates good storytelling that's why
Nobody appreciates it playing out all the most popular fan theories
Jamie kills cersei bran gets stuck in the night king's memories
John makes the big sacrifice and is remembered as a hero king and queen danny carries forward his legacy
And of course this video was wildly popular even though it ditches the tough questions martin asks about war and power
And just offers a conformist fan fiction about heroes saving the world from still a hell of a lot better than what we got
Even if it was conformist
What does that even mean it conforms to realities of the script? I don't know
Yeah conforms to consistency freaking conformists from ice dance
So thanks story. Thank you for being such a perfect example of mediocrity
Ooh
Okay, I wonder if think stories seen this video
How many views this video has
Or better yeah, what's the like dislike ratio
Like this isn't too bad. It's like
Seven to three if you will
And the views there's only 4000 views on this video itself. Um, and we're on the one core covering. Yes. Yeah
oh
a lot of people are very um
Very in favor of the video from the comment section from what i'm seeing
I think that people would have sought this one out. I guess if they were
Feeling that season eight was getting too much shit thrown in it
Um, or maybe been recommended. I don't know. I don't know. I just find it amusing that he's calling someone mediocre
I just wanted to want to say that
All right
I bring this up because it exposes the entitlement of fandom
Like I just want shit to make sense. You entitled prick, but not everything has to be endgame
Everything has to be endgame. Nothing. How how is it that?
You have used this as the example
Is he just talking about the fact that we're only just now getting in game and they're all like oh, yeah
It's lots of flack. Yeah, all right. Let me i'm gonna roll him back
I just want to see how he got there like I enjoyed endgame as much as the next guy
But not everything has to be endgame. I don't even know what that means because it's divisive
There's so many whatever his comparison is gonna be it's gonna be inaccurate
Like there's so many reasons why this is not a good comparison
Endgame pissed off a shit ton of people
It's
Where are you going with this buddy?
Not every story has to please the mainstream it didn't please the mainstream it split the mainstream
Like a lot of people loved it, but there's a shit ton of people who didn't
That's not what game of thrones was ever supposed to be
In a world where stories so often fail due to corporate greed or a lack of creativity
Or pandering too hard to a particular demographic
Game of thrones is actually being punished for the opposite
It's being punished for keeping through the artistic vision of its author
The artistic vision of just it doesn't matter what it is
Okay
Man is like do these people just want stories that make no sense all the time that are so nonsensical where there's no
Progression where there's no logical conclusions or results it is impossible to guess what will happen next
Well, we already got it from anything it
Well, if it's if anything it's a quality of a story if you can somewhat reliably kind of see what's going to happen
Yeah, I agree
um
Especially if you have like multiple things that could happen or things that can happen that you hadn't considered because you didn't put pieces together
That were there all these different ways of doing it. But uh, he's already said it
It's the it's the ideas the theme just the fact that it's like he just said asking questions
Execution is irrelevant
And I just like I think that defeats the entire point
If you're if your entire media is built on a baseline question such as what does it mean to be human?
um everything you build is an attempt to translate that message in a
Subtextual way not
Just you know what?
Fuck it
It doesn't matter what I put on top of all of it as long as you can see that bit of the bottom
That was my goal the whole time. Okay, we're good. Cool
Hey
It's on these other things for just trying to make money when the biggest criticism people had for dnd was the fact that they
Clearly didn't give a fuck because they wanted to make star wars
But it's it's the peak of like hollywood corporatism that they want to move up the ladder and he's like defending this
As if it's some kind of like high art
Good job did it
Part three. Oh, what if I'm wrong? Oh the yeah, the answer is yes
But what happens if he's wrong?
Okay, so i've made some harsh claims
I've said that a lot of people's reactions are being driven by their attachment to an incorrect idea of what the story was supposed to be
As in I believe the story was always gonna have jamie choose to die with cersei danny burn king's landing
John goes in as king, you know saying danny burns king's landing. There's many different ways that sentence can be satisfied
Um, well the one we got was possibly the very worst
So, uh, like if you told me do you think she'll be in king's landing? I've been like, yeah, maybe
Um, do you think she'll kill everyone there be like no
I was always gonna have jamie choose to die with cersei danny burn king's landing
John exiled to the knight's watch and brand chosen as king who would have thought he would be exiled to the knight's watch
It's just after all this okay, just go back to your day job
There is no knight's watch anymore
The north isn't even connected to the seven kingdoms grayway was not even going to stay in westeros. None of it makes any sense
It's such a disaster
It's the story martin was always telling and for the most part anything else would have been untrue to it
But what if i'm wrong?
Wrong about what's driving people's anger or wrong about the story of very wrong
Sorry martin is telling or wrong about what's good
What about everyone else?
All the other people I think they know what's good
Though my channel has become most widely known for predicting that bran would be king
I have to admit that over the years i've had a ton of theories and most of them ended up being wrong
Yet every time I was so assured that i'd figure things out
That I knew what was good and what the story i bet you didn't
I bet you didn't predict that bran would be the king because he has the best story
He's got the best chair there's no fucking way you predicted it was that reason
It was supposed to be
Truth is i've always been a little too certain that i'm right about things and that's something that i've always had to work on
And maybe so do a lot of us
And if you know no now you've just deflected that onto other people
Maybe I have a flaw but so does everyone else
Good job. Well, that's a good introspection
No, man, it's just i'm just waiting for this feels like a roundabout way of being like we all have our opinions. Okay
I'll be right. I think I've always had to work on actually. Could you pause it here? I am
I need to do something real quick
Just a second
Because i'm having a little bit of a tisme here
He's going to tisme land, okay. All right
He's got the robo dialers up his ass lately. I feel like he's
burst into his house like
With a gun they were like, this is a robbery and he's like, give me a second
Just one second. Hold on a sec. There's there's some tisme in my house
There's something there there my computer did a tisme so I had to untism it
We were successful rejoin. I was successful. Excellent. Yeah
Welcome to watch together and do is is the video up for you?
Um, I think it's loaded a little too certain that i'm right about things and that's something that i've always had to work on
I will go ahead and
Reload the page
Yep
Wonderful story was supposed to be
Truth is i've always been a little too certain that i'm right about things
And that's something that i've always had to work on and maybe so to a lot of us
And if you notice that was a big what a pair of lines
What a pair of lines
Well, what's wrong with the rags do you disagree?
Oh, no, it's great. I agree with it all. It's amazing
They went together and everything there was a period at the end. It was perfect. It was poetry in a way
It was just what I expected
And that's something that i've always had to work on and maybe so to a lot of us
And if you notice that was a big part of the message of game of thrones there at the end
That may be in the process of being so certain that you know, what's good
You aren't doing it. I'm just like game of thrones. I'm just like the game of thrones theme. Aren't I so good?
I'm so right because i'm just like game of thrones. Does this sound familiar to anyone?
The same other movie where people are like, you know
People are judging tlj for its failures
When the theme of the movie was the failure is the best teacher. Don't you see?
Don't you see?
And good people like this movie. So please be good
Like I said, i've said this before it's a meme that we hate themes
And that they can take it seriously
Sometimes the people on the the team of themes there are the the only thing that matters
But like these kinds of arguments are why we get so bored with the word. We're like stay away from it
You're not allowed to have that word anymore
just
Bores, they have a living crap out of me that you just forget about every other element in favor of a neat message. It's just like
Doing any good
Maybe people are out here pointing out plot holes while missing one of the key messages the show tried to deliver
That it's destructive to be so stuck in our own perspective that we stop trying to understand
Destructive you just ignore the plot holes
Story doesn't fucking make sense and just just soak up the message
He's not even like he's so tacit though because it's just like
Maybe you're wrong guys
Like oh
Is that it?
Outside outside of telling us for the whole video that we didn't get what we wanted you're gonna add on the end. Maybe you're wrong
Thanks, i'm wrong about what I wanted like what it's like this has been you know quite a nothing video
Like I was kind of hoping for a little bit more than this, but it's mainly just literal arguments from themes
Yep
I mean
Does this kind of backlash really benefit anyone? Yeah
Yeah
future writers
Yeah, don't make shitty stories that don't make sense and don't rush them to completion. Otherwise, it'll just destroy it
People are gonna really give it also
Look at this shot. There's like
what
20 dudes
In the middle of a field and some dragons hanging out in the back and midgets up front
What is this what what what what is this? Oh, this is something I complained about
Standing yeah, he's standing in front of a fucking scorpion
It's this whole it's all terrible right? He's doing don't even bother wasting brain cells on that one. Um
the
Don't like the whole
Is the backlash helping anyone? It's just like so backlash is only ever gonna happen
If it can help at least one person is that is that how it develops?
Um, your goal has to be um
An interest of change for the better. Yes, it's like
Well, yeah, we we want better writing. Is that good enough?
How are we gonna get it if we don't make our position known that we think this is terrible?
We just shut up and hope
That we gamble and get good writing
And you know, you might be like it was a bit dramatic. I'm just like well, he's made it dramatic
He's made it sound like this is some major event when it was fans of a tv show saying this was fucking shit
Oh
Yeah, I don't I don't really see like he's like who's it benefiting
It's like I don't know there's probably some people out there who
Got to do some critical thinking about how important it is to have characters be consistent
Have plot lines make sense have wheel building that actually matters
Uh such a like petty little moment of just like stopping me
To stop it anyone just like no probably not
I think this need to direct all of our anger at a particular person when we feel let down tends to miss the bigger picture
With game of thrones, it's benioff and wice even though there are much bigger structural issues
Caused by them as the rightism story
Okay with adapting a song of ice and fire into a television format
It's when they stopped adapting it that the problems were becoming huge. It's like
What are you talking about?
I mean george r martin himself splits the story in half for books four and five right a strategy
Which would have been impossible to do with a television show also. He throws in a bunch more characters possible. Why would that be impossible?
Yeah, why would that be impossible?
Has he seen the prestige or memento films known for the out of order structure?
I don't know
Impossible nope
A strategy which would have been impossible to do with a television show also
He throws in a bunch more characters and he spent the last eight years writing the sixth book
your point
Okay, they stopped adapting well earlier than that one so
Meanwhile dnd had to not only condense the story but do it in a fraction of the time
So all he's doing right now is trying to reason why it makes sense that it's bad which doesn't address the point
It's which is that it's bad
It's like I don't care whether or not like if you tell me the director had one leg i'm like, okay
That sucks for him. Like what do you want me to say? Like it doesn't change what it is
Time people call them out on rushing the story, but they went one season beyond their initial plan
Yeah, which was several seasons below both what hbo wanted and what george rr martin wanted. So don't even go there
They were always intending to use this as a stepping stone
Oh and spent an entire two years on the final six episodes, which is insane that they spent two years on this
How did you spend two years on this?
If anything that just condemns the point they had all this if anything
It would be like a defense to say man. They were super rushed. They had like no time
They ran out of funding they had some legal issues with a copyright thing in the lawsuit or something
Don't say they had all the time in the world. It's tons of time
All the time they could have taken all this time. They were given plenty of time instead
They spent it on a budget for burning children. So still
You gotta get it, right? You know, you gotta get the bones, right? Yeah called crisp
I like the idea by the way
He's saying this and there's like a producer in the background and when he says like
They took an extra year writing this and the producer starts to do like the cut it out motion like don't
That's a lie
They made mistakes. Yes, but they did so because they had a hard game of thrones writing is very hard
Therefore if you do shit, it's okay
Okay
How do you think this works works out in the olympics
Hey, man
Beating the fastest guy in the world and the race is hard. Can I just get the gold anyway?
No
Can I just not lose because that would be very talk
Trained so hard for this if I lose that just it just wouldn't be right. It wouldn't yeah, it wouldn't be fair
This why is meritocracy so damned these days? It's like fuck you guys. Everybody gets a gold
It's like you realize working hard is hard. Okay. What does the gold mean if everyone gets it?
Means fuck all participation trophies
for everybody
Our job. Oh people saying gedel. That's true back here again
Huh, you're saying gedel. What what kind of what should I write about this?
Look just the word poop hard to write things
So when they're bad, it's hard to write things
It's okay
That's just good enough as it is right there. It's hard to write things
That's okay
P.s. Poop p.s. Poop did so because they had a hard job
Alternatively with the last jedi everyone's villain was ryan johnson despite there being much crazy
How people are picking the writers as the people who are responsible for the writing?
What universe are people coming to this conclusion?
I don't know how they go for
Exactly. Obviously the costume designers. They're the ones
Was there the whole time those fucking costume design they're responsible for everything
But imagine there's like this huge expose
Video of all the costume designers like sabotaging the project like with the fucking coffee cups
And they're like telling the actors to act badly or something and they change the scripts on the fly
They like damage the editing or something. It's like I do it and now with my magical costume cloak. I will make this luke disappear
I like that he's showing this image as well, which is like oh, yes, this this image makes ryan johnson look way better
Oh, yeah, he's shitting on fan theories cool
Much bigger structural issues with the way disney brought back star wars yet
The backlash over the last jedi didn't push disney to re-examine the broader problems with their trilogy. What do you mean?
Yeah, they did
Yeah, people made a shit ton of videos talking about the ot and how you damaged its legacy
And what you should have done. How many videos are they talking about how they should have written it or how?
Like what a pathway could have been better like what do you mean? Can we even count at this point?
He's just wrong
Fucking people made re-edits of the films trying to direct them in better
Directions and he brought back star wars yet the backlash over the last jedi didn't push disney to re-examine the broader problems with their trilogy
It just yeah, that's the problem
That's the problem and plus like does he
Does he know that we haven't seen episode nine yet? What if they?
Suddenly try to backtrack on like a whole lot of character developments that sucked and try to save him later
Like does he know that that's what they're doing because of the fan backlash
No
Movie's not out yet
I was just reading this so it's like a post celebrating getting rid of cali maritran from instagram. I don't really get it
Yeah, I don't like if I could speak to this person. I'd be like, what do you think has been achieved? Like what does that change?
Yeah, what did you do here?
Ever since the good old days of raiding the comments of star wars books from 2014
orchestrating the spoiler g-heart of 2015
Never heard of it
Go out there and fight for legends restoration go out there
Why do you think forcing an actress off instagram would be a step toward getting
Yeah, why would they yeah carry along with it
And push them back to jj abrams whose idea of a star wars movie was just a retelling of a new hope
Except ultimately fan backlash didn't stop the milking of star wars
So what so just smile and be glad that they're doing just consume products happy
Just consume product and then get happy for next products. What is your
Why is he advocating for people to not feel?
Hashtag let us feel they can feel they can feel just one particular way
You'll feel quietly as well. Enjoy it and support it. If you don't like it then shut up
Just be happy you've got anything
Be happy you exist you piece of shit
Okay
It's borga cold
Ultimately fan backlash didn't stop the milking of star wars. It just invited more shameless pandering didn't solo bomb
Yes
Solo I know you probably forgot because it's fucking a shitty star wars movie
But didn't solo lose money a star wars movie by disney lost money
Yeah, and it had nothing. I'm sure it had nothing to like i'm sure they didn't lose any sales
Thanks to the last jedi. I'm sure it had nothing to do with that
I'm sure the fact that people try to organize a boycott didn't have any effect whatsoever
Well, the fact that they reshot the shit out of it because they were concerned about the content
They wanted people to like it had nothing to do with it
I'm sure the fact that bob eiger announced that disney were going to stop releasing star wars films too hastily after that
debacle
None of this has anything to do with fan backlash or fans choosing not to watch the films
None of it does it doesn't get anything done. This guy said it
Doesn't stop it stop hating things guys. Just like things much better
You'll be happier looking of star wars. It just invited more shameless pandering
This is kind of an obvious statement, but television and film is largely driven by the market. And so
We hear the market you idiot
That's such a like it's not the fans it's the market it's like are you daft
Who do you think's at the market?
Do you think the market is just soulless robots existing in the ether controlled by satellites in outer space this whole other species of
Glumps, this is they control it
Marketoids they're like, oh man. The strings of media. I hope the glumps continue to encourage star wars movies to see more
What is this don't do it stupid statement, what do you mean?
This is kind of an obvious statement
But television and film is largely driven by the market
And so what gets made will typically be what can reliably turn a profit
On account of just how much goes into shows and movies today studios avoid taking risks leading to our current age of remakes reboots
And adaptations don't have to take risks. No, don't don't make a dichotomy between good stories and like not taking risks
Like they're not they're not even
You can tell a good story that people like and at the same time not take risks
I refuse to agree the logan wasn't risky the dead pool wasn't risky and the infinity wall's ending wasn't risky
Those things were all risky
They don't know how they're going to react to all that. Yeah, they don't know how much money this thing's gonna make
Yeah, joker was really risky right at art and like
Yeah, it just to just essentially bolster what rag said it's like we have we're talking about consistent and consistent
And he's now labeling them risky and non-risky. You're like, no, no, that's two. That's a different thing. Stop it
risky
I don't even like the the idea that it's like a film isn't good unless it's risky or something
Like it's not gonna be fun. You end up with all of these franchises
You want everything to be homogeneous in in hollywood? No, so encourage things like the last jedi
Which is like the peak of hollywood corporate slop being pooped out of a space cow
Like how do you?
How do you see that one as breaking the mold being risky? Is it literally just because people didn't like it? Is that how it's risky?
It was risky i'll give him that it was absolute nonsense
I don't know who the hell would have thought that it was a good idea, but plenty of people did appear
When we punish stories that try to be subversive we're implicitly telling studios to no it's like this is the whole thing if
It's like he's conflating so many things here
And he's just lumping them together and he's making connections that just don't exist
Like oh you want good things. Well studios want to play it safe. So they have to be subversive what?
Like how like how do you think
uh
Establishing that we're punishing it for being subversive like
You have not proven that it's subversive rather than
Batshit insane written by somebody who's clearly like upside down
and
I
just
Didn't have like a third of their brain. I'm gonna say that because you know, we need to be alive but
That's mainly the issue we're trying to address not not it being subversive again
There's another word. I kind of want to strike from their language like you're not allowed to have that one now either
Stop it
Ruining it
Keep ruining words
Playing it safe
So for better or worse, I appreciate when people have the courage to try something different. Uh, it's not the problem that we had
No, we we could just test this we're like, okay, so come watch my movie. It's about I recorded a man pooping for two hours
Aggressively, you know stuck in sideways. He ate he's a big meat eater. It's just
Oh, man, you have to get a plunger at one point. It's gross, but it's subversive. Yeah, you had to dislodge it
Yeah, it's it was just very riveting. It ends with him like almost getting it and then the door bursts open
So it just shoots him in the head
You don't get your pay off this is a story of wings of redemption and then we went in that direction
It's just wings of redemption redemption just taking the biggest wings
A wings of redemption is now a poop. It's like a euphemism. That's what we refer to. He was taking a wings of redemption
Well out there somewhere in the world there is a toilet whose job it is
Is to be in wings of redemption's house
This ain't no sorority toilet
That's a sympathetic character
This is the same thing we've done with so many people as well
But you just be like there are no deeper themes of a man pooping or something. I'm like, ah
Ah, you see the toilet is golden in this and the man himself is this
Right. No, actually the man is golden. The toilet is all ragged and oily or scratched and dirty
It represents the high class pooping on the low class
supposed to try and
Extend to the idea that a hero is needed for the low class a man with a gun who shoots the high class while it's pooping
It's very deep. You don't understand it
Also subversive that's why you didn't like it. It didn't go the way you wanted
I win
It's commentary on the meat industry. You don't even have to make an argument at that point. You can just rattle it all off
We need more weird
I think you're making a terrible mistake weird
The freedom to make my own mistakes was all I ever wanted
So you you agree that the writers made a mistake, okay, that's all we really have to yeah, okay
They were always free to make mistakes. They have full control over the writing. What the hell? Yeah, you think that we thought
We wanted to control it
We need more like this by the way, they made mistakes like what it would literally say we need less mistakes
Yeah, and I would take literally any fan any fan at random and have them rewrite season eight
And i'm almost sitting it would be better
Just just even a child who shouldn't have been watching it. Like I just I don't even care. It would be better
Which brings me back to the petition and maybe my most controversial point in a recent interview
Actor nikolai costa waldo joked that the final season of game of thrones would be remade
Once the million people who signed the petition could all agree on an ending
And while it makes a great point about how it's impossible to appease every they probably fucking could
they probably you know if they actually yeah, if they actually put their heads together and there was a
Real group effort for it. You probably could actually come up with yeah a one ending that was agreed upon
Yeah, and if we if we're accounting for no trolls
Like nobody is saying no just for the sake of it
And then like generalized storylines that can all be voted on you probably get one that the million people were like
Yeah, okay, and and especially if we're gonna go with
Prefer it over what they got
We'll we'll we'll get it pretty easily actually probably like first try
Yep, john goes on the throne and danny goes to baskin robbins the end
Yeah, literally that sounds better. Just get anybody to do it goes to the throne
I do want to challenge this point just a little bit
Because I actually think it would have been easy to make an ending that was better received than the one we got
Yeah, no shit, which is actually why david benioff and dby's deserve some credit
Oh, it would have been easy for them to abandon martin's vision and do a
martin's vision a lot of guts you just
They they bravely abandoned jrr martin's
Roadmap that had brought them so much success and that so many people really liked and was satisfying and made sense
And they boldly went off in their own
Direction to fucking bat shit crazy universe where things don't make sense, but everything is subversive
What heroes look seriously pouring oil over yourself and jumping into a volcano. It takes a lot of guts
You need to appreciate that
I think there was desperate arguments ever. I think in fairness. This is the first i've seen of like
People trying to defend the shit out of season eight of game of thrones. Like it is interesting
So this is reminiscent of all the shit we've been through with tlj
this is the same kind of
You could say the exact same thing about like mass murderers and petaracts is like yeah
It takes a lot of guts to do that and like yeah, I guess yeah, I guess
A lot of cadillos
We should come back on that. Um
What do they want me to get delved exactly though because the comment he's got on the screen
I'd probably want to turn into no what he what he said
vocally I think
Maybe what I said about the oily volcano
No, no, no what this what the dude said. What did he say?
Uh, just rewind. All right, then the one we got
Which is actually why david benioff and dbyce deserve some credit
It would have been easy for them to abandon martin's vision and do a crowd-pleasing ending that people were expecting
Have john sword fight the night king have jay roe who kills sersi
Yes, not necessarily. This is the problem
Anything at this point is better. Oh, no, that's true
But he's picking like singular endings as if the he's already highlighted how fans had like a bazillion conflicting different endings
Just none of them were terrible compared to what we got
And so like i'm just an advocate for like just have it make sense
It doesn't necessarily have to be all of these very rigid things
but like
Some things you should probably avoid I can at least recommend that
He's saying anything that wasn't predictable was bad
So well funnily enough that's what major lee said about tlj if you remember
That um anything that was pretty cool was bad
But he predicted that ray's parents were nobody
And he like pats himself on the back for it, even though he said that being able to predict any of it
Would be a sign of like cool writing videos constantly contradict themselves
Rough to watch has this guy said once that he enjoys season eight or is he more so trying to
Dogpile here. I don't know actually said anything about enjoying it
I'm not actually sure of what his take on season eight is
I think his main the main vibe i'm getting is we're being too mean to it when all the rest of it has problems too
and then highlighting a couple of other things, but
Maybe he really didn't like it and then he was upset by how angry everybody was
Easy for them to abandon martin's vision and do a crowd-pleasing ending that people were expecting
Have john sword fight the night king have jamie heroically kill cercy
Have danny install democracy and then fly off into the sunset with john and ending like that isn't hard to come up with
After all that's i'm confused
Like so when you're in the writing room and you're like
Fuck, how do we end this and then someone suggests that danny kills a whole bunch of women and children?
Would he just sit there going like man? That was hard to come up with nice
Why why is that hard to come up with it's just dumb
And then it's like okay, so who gets the throne it's like uh, he takes out like a suction cup dildo and just flings it at the wall
It's a name pram
What if uh, what if zanny turned into a mass murderer?
I just like i'm picturing like a painter trying to do a really realistic drawing that some guy just starts
You know wide brush splattering everything all over it and he's like in fitness
It was more risky and it was harder to pull off and i'm just like neither of those things
neither of them
Making shit up
I wanted to justify how it was hard to write that danny killed everyone sounds pretty simple to me actually
Sort of fanservicey wish fulfillment is pretty much exactly what they wrote for battle of the bastards and it received widespread acclaim
But it wasn't actually good
But how does he explain stuff like the red wedding and netstock?
He doesn't that's the key let me have a look at um
He said 9.8 for that
The thing if he's right
If he's right, then the red wedding should have at least a relatively low rating, right?
Listen you're so focused on hard data and numbers in reality, but you need to let go of all that
Well, I know reality is bad. I know that get it reality or bad
Nothing ever worked well because of paying attention to reality. I get it. You know, what's the reality?
Hitler
So this is weird, right? I don't know. I don't want to say that like look i'm just presenting this story wrong
This is this is doctored information. This is this is edited probably but i'll read it out
For the reigns of castamere the red wedding the episode put a 9.9 on imdb, which is impossibly hard to get as a rating
Obviously doctored it was reverse removal 85 000 review scores
averaged out to
9.9
You know
The heroes didn't exactly win in that episode and yet the fans enjoyed it. I don't understand
What could have happened?
Was
Remind me which of the seasons where they were paying close attention to adapting the books one through one through four
Oh and which which one was which season was this from three?
huh
Where did the fans feel like the seasons went insane the first time season five? Oh
Hmm, it's almost like a lot of this is tied to the writing quality rather than what the fuck's happening in general
Tim's of heroes winning and bad guys losing
I just
I don't know how you he would react to all of this. I just think like paying attention wide spread a claim
Seriously people the last two episodes of season six are not well written people just liked watching the heroes win
So despite even disagree with that
Doesn't support the rest of his fucking conclusions everything I respect dnd for trying stop saying that
I respect them for you know, I wouldn't even necessarily disagree, but I don't I'm not convinced they tried
I don't have evidence for this
They took risks and made it more
I
Don't I don't feel like we have
Indications that they tried in terms of writing and if you're gonna reference stuff like I don't know
It's like the acting and be like yeah, we've got plenty of evidence costume design set design special effects
Like yeah, there's lots of evidence. It's like the writing. We only ever have to go on with writing is what what's being written. Obviously
It's pretty bad. I don't know what else I don't know where you're getting this wrong dnd for trying
For doing a final season that took big risks saying that do I think it was great?
No, but it was ambitious and to me that's more important. How do you keep saying that?
That's amazing
No, it wasn't great but
Look some damn risks. That's what it did. Of course
Could just and just do this while you're sitting on the the toilet one day make some courage
I would have done differently characters
I don't think were handled well and valid criticisms to make
But we should consider that for everything the showrunners might have gotten wrong
There were probably a ton of things we had wrong too. Oh my god
For everything they got wrong we got stuff wrong. What does that even mean?
I'm not sure
I'm gonna put that one in guitar
You know for everything you guys think creators got wrong
You got wrong that makes even less sense and I kind of want to keep it that way
Just be sitting like what the fuck does that mean
And instead of obsessing over plot holes
Maybe our energy would be better spent trying to reach a better understanding
And appreciating that despite being really flawed the ending we got was genuine not focus grouped or test marketed
What do you know that I believe that
And why does that mean just automatically to be appreciated like holy shit, you could have test marketed
Group controlled things that end up being great
I mean
Isn't the whole point that like something like star wars was assumed to be kind of like a potential
Money dump and that they should be really careful and then it just blew everyone away
Yeah
They didn't expect it to be popular
We've got full circle what did you describe it as real
Two instead of obsessing over plot holes
Maybe our energy would be better spent trying to reach a better understanding
And appreciating that despite being really flawed the ending we got was genuine
What the fuck does that mean that's one of our thingy words
You got like real legitimate genuine actual like these words that are just like what the fuck does that mean?
But give me a translation because I don't think you're using it for what I assume it meant not focus grouped or test marketed
But in an attempt to explore some tough question. Hey Rags, you just described the story as genuine
Genuine no, that doesn't mean by that. That was it. It's just what do you mean this?
No, we need some that doesn't make sense
Nope the story is not lying. Okay
I think it's lying. There's no way this stuff happened
um
All right, then we'll carry on I will I will let you listen to the story is not better spent trying to reach a better
understanding
And appreciating that despite being really flawed the ending we got was genuine not focus grouped or test marketed
But in an attempt to explore some tough questions about who we are
If you say so what
questions about who we are we are like there leaves everyone bewildered
Myself in any of that shit why I was Daenerys cuz I just bought one of just fucking burn cities full of children
It's just it spoke to me on an emotional level
I'm john cuz I got really mad at dragon. So I scream at him. I guess
He doesn't set this up at all like in terms of structure of video essays. Like where did this come from?
questions about who we are like what
You should have had a section maybe about
Introspection about us that was a bit more fleshed out than just earlier. He said something about
how um
We might be wrong without realizing it. I think in relation to Daenerys his choices
Like that's kind of one-ish thing, but this this felt like you just pulled it out of your ass
He asked us questions that made about our cell question
Who we are about
elves
Beautiful
Which is why
We should forgive game of throne
No, I can't what's not even big forgive a show like you mean forgive. What is she wearing?
What is that? What's that chain attached to?
What is it attached to
What does it go down to oh nothing it's just it just hangs there
Oh
What is this? What is that?
It's just go nuts. Think of what it could mean. She used to be a prisoner and she's broken free
It's not like a brooch or anything. It's not securing a cloak to her
It's kind of like think of it as a chain that's kind of broken and she still wears it to represent her past of being a prisoner
It's a symbol of our insecurity to remind me of being a prisoner. I constantly wear this chain around my neck
I don't even know dude. I'm just making that shit up
Okay
Because I look I see that and it has I just it just it instantly I look at that and i'm like, why is that?
What is that? I've always felt that way about the stupid sonic ring
Why'd you wear it? What is it? Stop it?
Tell anyone how to feel I can suggest that we also be self-critical though. I can't necessarily tell people what I feel
Is this christmas music?
I'm just gonna say, when does this fucking music come from?
Get right to the world, Game of Thrones
This is where we rejoice guys
We did it
Yo, sorry about the plot holes. You just didn't expect it
We should forgive Game of Thrones
You're right
Although I can't tell anyone how to feel
The way that music comes in
You kind of are though
I like how the end of it. I can't tell you how to feel. It's like you're pretty much guiding us into saying only
It's acceptable to feel one way. Can you say we're overreacting? Isn't that something you actually said?
Meaning our feelings are not the way they should be. That was the whole point. Yeah
You lied to me video maker I trusted you you lied you lied to me
Yeah, just I can't help but assume that Despul should know it's right hardcore as well
But the way that music cuts in it's it's so good. It's very odd. It's a christmas carol
Like we tried to so here
We tried to make deliberate choices like this when making gedel two like musical choices that were just bad
like the way it cuts in or changes
randomly joy to the worker
That's what I'm trying to say like i'm gonna take this this is happening
You put it in the notes
And that's why we should forgive game of thrones on the cover of the rolling stone
And say
You should forgive x I don't know whatever topic i'm
I'll be great
We should forgive destiny too
I
Can suggest that we also be self-critical
Though I can't necessarily tell people what ideals to live by
I do suggest we try to understand the ideals present in the media we consume
And then make a choice whether or not to apply those messages in our own lives
And heaven and nature sing
It's so distracting
Because people were people surely watch this and they're like wait a second this music I know it. Oh, yeah christmas carol
Um
Couldn't you have established some of these lessons and talked about them in more detail about why they're so
It's like I really am struggling to empathize with people who really just they only want the idea present and that's it
They just do not care about anything else. It's like come on
You're not real. Are you?
You do care about how it manifests in the thing, right?
Please tell me you care like no yoda said it. He said the failure is the best teacher. It's great
Surely more to it than that
And then bran looked at the camera in the final scene and said god bless us everyone
Oh us to choose what we like and what we can forgive
Maybe we owe it to ourselves when our favorite stories let us down
To remember all of the things that made them our favorite stories. Oh my god
Actually christmas music this I can't get over this this is insane
Everyone's happy like they're gathered around the christmas tree opening their presents
Except the boxes are fucking empty because that would subvert your expectations. Of course now everyone's crying
Well, you just didn't expect that you were gonna get nothing
Yeah, it turns out you're on the shit list this year
All right, I have to write this so his argument was basically
When it gets shit, just remember what it was like, but it was good because otherwise you wouldn't know what shit was comparatively
It's just like you have to know what bad is so that you understand what good is like no
We can identify what good is we could point it out with reasons and references
We don't have to dichotomize it with bad. We don't have to check
Get how much of a terrible it's like you break your leg and it's just like remember what it was like to have a leg
That wasn't broken
Yeah, that's part of the issue
Like not broken leg back
Well, I can't walk on it
Unbelievable like this is some next level just
Surprised me if I hate everything's video. He's like it's about hope
Remember all of the doctors take over
Got marriage
What's happening this clip why is this here
Jesus christ, it looks like the ending of a fucking christmas special. Oh my god
That's what I was about to say
Like the christmas lettering here christmas music
Carol playing in the background this came out on just just so we're sure this came out in august
Okay, I have no idea why there's the christmas theme here
All you need now is the yule log in the background and some little yellow sparkles little angels flying down
It's not as far away from christmas as possible
I feel like it's pretty fucking far away though
Happy holidays. Yeah, that's what all of us feel here at whatever the fuck this channel it is
At eyebrowsing. It's a final video for the year. That's what we're all expecting to see because that's what you do with music cues
Like this, you don't just just throw it in randomly like what the fuck?
How strange
Oh
Well, that was painful that was so beautiful yeah baffling
Um, yeah, it was it really was great. I was made aware by the way
but um
Uh, you know birds of prey
The movie is coming out with the harley quinn. Yeah. Yeah, um
This is a screenshot, so don't don't know if true, but i'm going to assume that they wouldn't have posted it unless it was true
Ooh, mcgregor said the film is going to tackle true misogyny
Like true misogyny you just find that picture again
like making an all-female cast just to imply that you have to
Cast females in groups because they can't do it alongside men or
I don't even know what that means. I'll pop over to his twitter quickly and find this because uh,
Please ewen, please don't like please don't be what I think it is
Something stupid
Maybe you guys should have killed the night king
I haven't seen the trailer. No, I haven't
I haven't not looked at a trailer yet. I could not care less
Yeah, it sounds
Um, I guess
I've got so many notifications on twitter as well. Oh my goodness
I don't know any memes
You
Yes
You guys gotta talk amongst yourselves you want me to collect these memes
Yes. All right. Well, but what what do you want for christmas this year?
Oh man, I just want my two front teeth
That's what they say
All right, then go our family and stuff aim high
It's doing a terrible job. I want hot wheels. Give me a hot wheels. Give me a hot wheels
Christmas discussions. It's not even we should be talking about what do you want for halloween? What do you want for halloween this year little timmy?
Well, what what do you want for sorry, what do you want for halloween this year because i'm the christmas
I'm the halloween skeleton
Claws how that works? I go to all the scary children and give them fucking candy
All the scary children
Remember have you been have you been scary and terrifying and in every sense of the word disturbing?
Then i'll come to your house in the middle of the night on halloween
And I may or may not kill your parents, but I will give you a big basket full of candy
to soothe your
So bad
It may or may not contain their fingers
You like fingers don't you
What's it like a movie about this guy i'm a spooky skeleton rax sounds like palpatine
What
Max is that your best palpatine? No, i'm the spooky skeleton
Fuck it
One the momentos still collecting they're all getting into it from here. I'm like fuck it
50 memes this is way too. How am I supposed to there's like fucking 14 memes. I used to have a sleigh pulled by reindeer
Yeah
The fucking defense writing is hard, it's like people are beaming about that
It's hard to collect them all in real time
Many memes many memes
Oh, that one's adorable
These are wonderful
Okay, just give me give me some more time. All right, I demand that you don't
Talk about a movie you saw that wasn't a spoiler everyone
Is there any games coming out this month that you're looking forward to reg is?
um
uh, no
Uh, not really I don't keep up with a lot of new stuff. I know i've got to do reviews for a game of fuck
gears of war game and
uh game of game of gears and
Um code vein
And resistance is freutile in some other stuff
So that'll probably be what I work on later on today
this urge to
game of gears five
All right, by the way, this is the quote apparently so um gears of throne. This is from
I think this is from eel mcgregor. What interested me with birds of prey is that it's a feminist film
It is very finely written. It is in the script a true look
It is in the script a true look on the on the misogyny
Is this pretty what he said on the misogyny?
And I think we the men need that we need to be more aware of how we behave with the opposite sex
We need to be taught to change
Um, i'll read the rest of the sec. I'm just trying to get hot to change
I I'll have you know that I behave very well around the opposite sex and I definitely do not intend on changing
Anytime soon. That's the problem, right? You're part of the problem. Can you learn anything?
Gods are the king of the monsters humans are an infection
All those free fucking dinners they get
um
The misogynists in the movie are often extreme
They are raping they beat women and it's legitimate to represent people like that because they exist and they are absolute obviously the worst
Well, it's like that's even then it's like
Do you think that rapists and wife beaters are doing that just because they hate women?
Or do you think it's a little bit more complex than that? Do you think it's just that simple?
They just hate women. So they go around beaten and rape them
Deep seated in this order the entire thing put turn it black and white and it's easy to argue against
Oh, no, it is so easy because all you have to do is say oh
I can I can call you a misogynist and oh, hey, that's just like wife beaters and rapists. There's there's another bit
Sorry, i'm i'm gonna say. Sorry ahead of time
But in the dialogues of birds of prey, there is always an illusion to everyday misogyny
Those things that we say as men we don't even realize
Like mansplaining
All this is in the script terror. All of this is in the script in a very subtle way. I found that brilliant
Oh, no the terror of mansplaining and I bet there's going to be a manspreader in there as well with his legs a gape
Why would they do that the horror I can't imagine
How will these women survive being mansplained too so that he's lost the high ground yes
No
That is funny
What can you do I suppose somebody asked okay, who did you and rape
Yeah, me, too
Yeah, it's like overcompensating
Oh
No, I'm almost going on a good story too hard can't have good stories because they're scary and they'll make people kill each other
It's uh, it's a true very much
Okay, you guys ready for memes now
Let's do it. I would love to see some memes. These are some halloweenie memes
I love them. Not that they're kind of halloween, but that's how it works now
Um, I think you'll guys will like this one as a beginning if you will
Oh, no
I love that throne
I mean I'd watch the show if if wings are redemption was Ned Stark, that'd be great
I
See this meme is from earlier in the stream yet still wonderful
Yeah, like north carolina I don't like the implication that I would cheat on rags that's ridiculous
Yeah, that's uh, I got my eye I got my eye on you
Um
Yo, well written destructured original joke i'm just like man that either I love mad flag
That was so funny you reacted I thought the flag was goofy but then you saw it and then
It became contagious. I don't believe it's real
Why would anyone have a flag like that?
It's uh, the eff up movies for doom. I like I like this representation of what's happening
Do it. Haha. Oh, yeah, I haven't really talked about that. I probably should mention
Yeah, so i'm still working on getting that out. Um
As well as a whole bunch of other i've i've done a whole bunch of editing for a whole bunch of things and it's just
Zephyr being a prick with doom that slowed it down a bit
Um, it'll be out went down like several times now, hasn't it? It'll come back
I'll find a way it'll happen
Can I come back?
I think e-man gameplay made this i'm guessing it's like an actual reddit that he created
Holy shit. That's amazing
Man, I'll wait
Love it. Oh my goodness. Imagine that thing just cartwheeling towards you
Dude, that looks like it that looks like it'd be on like a board game like a board game piece
Oh, yeah, if there was an epap board game, this would be one of the pieces
Or a villain or like a or like a warhammer 40k sort of thing
Um
Grinding is hard you're toxic appreciate what you got
Rags you can definitely associate with this one
Oh
And I love this birthday meme because it's called bat woman in it
Of course I earned it just what I wanted today's the day
I think this is the implication is that jay is being beaten the fuck out by the isle of man flag, which is a
Meme how did that happen? Did we say that it kills jay?
Or is it the kick jay makes sense because it has a bunch of legs
Oh kick jay got it. Yep
Sorry, jay natural natural order thing
Fucking inaccurate. I love the royal flag. God damn it
I
I'm trying to figure out this one. Oh, this was the the guy on twitter. Actually you guys wouldn't get this. Don't worry
More of a disco game
Um
Yeah, this is from pikachu
Yay, yeah
I mean rags and courage. I love courage the cowardly dog. It's such a great show
Okay, I do love it but i'm more partial to this one i'm sorry this one I adore wonderful
Massive birthday boy
Ultimately adorable
Um
Yeah, this is uh the work from pikachu we've we've showed a few of them and uh pikachu had a
Thank you. Um
Note that I thought I put up as well
We love your work wonderful
Hello
Rags, did you see the past two ones?
Yeah, I did. Yeah, I said I was I was speaking through them
I made commentary and then I even said hi rags when you
What when you posted this because it says also hi rags
You didn't say anything for for the one before
Well, I mean
What do you want me to say, man? Yeah, you got a big cake. You're
You got your your face with your birthday hat
And your ear things their ear things now and you got your red shirt
And you got your cake
And you're turning
25
You're trying to say it's shameful forgot about the polka dots. You said 27
Oh
Both of those you literally
You literally told me yeah, I know returning 27
Because it's why i'm really retarded. That's why
You didn't know which birthday it was of yours. No, well funnily enough. It was it was alex that called this out
So like I'd I'd said it because I was completely confused one day
But I wasn't corrected and so it just it just started to become like a thing. I was just like, oh, yeah
I'm turning 27. Yeah
and like even with my parents they should be like, oh, yeah
27 whoa, and then at one point I was like
Just just accepting this reality because as you would know because that's what I told you and I said it to alex
The day yesterday. He was like, you're not 27
On sunday and I was like, what do you mean? He was like
Seven plus 16 uh 19 26
I was like
What?
This is like thinking about my bid day and the actual date. I was like, oh
So this is still accurate to one year ago. I am 26
Um
I'm just retarded. That's what I just wanted to make sure everyone knew that
So if you're 20, so, okay. All right, you told me 27 now you're saying 26 and I see a birthday cake with 25
How fucking old are you?
What's the real answer i'm getting three. I got three different things to work off. Well, this one's more metaphorical
Oldy is I just want to say mauler doesn't know how old he is. Does anybody really know how old they are?
Uh, yeah
See affirmative see these answers they're all very sort of shaky. No one really knows i'm glad we agree on that mine was very very steadfast
Yeah, one of three answers was steadfast one of them was like not even an answer
The others were probably just confused about your question. Exactly because it was a hard question to answer
No one really knows when they're born. It's as chat is saying subjective. It is subjective. Thank you
bulge
Uh mel seems to believe he is seven years old
Do you so do you do you think he's wrong rags? No, I believe that. I believe that. Sorry mel beyond a shadow of a doubt
Well
That then you had a metal miner on the show
Gross love your drawings picture. That was the point of that full sequence. They're great. Uh
Which leads us to
Three hours and I was thinking since we did a 19 hour last week probably do super chats and uh, and we can wrap up maybe
Since um, oh my yeah, I know. How about that?
I was about to wrap up. Yeah, but it's only been but it's only been like
How long
Were it started at about it started at about four. Let me see. We are we're at three seventeen
It's only been like three hours. We're only doing super chats. What time is it about you get hours?
Yeah, we'll watch a super chat. Take like six thirty puns. Like I said, we did a 19 hour last week
That's like yeah, but this just seems this seems really premature
That was never the deal
It's never supposed to be hours and 20. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no
Let's find another video to cover and I let's make it a long one. Let's here. Here's one
Um, here's uh, the true magic mirror the true purpose of the white walkers
Uh, why brand stark will be king?
Why theon should have killed the night king. Yeah, right
I mean, I I wouldn't have had a huge problem with that to be on
Yeah
It should be why why should you want to build the night king? Tell us a tonal video
Oh, hell, yeah
Is that a no from yeah
Yeah, no, that's a yes. Yes. All right, that is yes. Let's pop on old tonaled
Um
Yeah, he's doing this is this is one i've actually wanted to to go over for a while
Basically, this this came out very soon after he said he was going to change up his content
He was going to be much more positive and do whatever he wants to and it was going to be risky
But I want to engage with it. This video is essentially him sharing his perspective
on
What his his some of his favorite games are, right?
It's called the holy trinity
Um, oh my gg for an intro. This is one of our favorite content creators
down with rush the um
Unparalleled in his greatness. I look forward to experiencing his take on I think he covers mario
I want to say mario banjo kazooie and no mario
Honka and something else
Let's let's check the combination of mario 64 legend of zelda ocarina of time and bainjo kazooie. Oh, it's not
Yes, in my opinion the holy trinity of games for the n64
I mean just imagine being a kid back then and owning this system
It was like winning the lottery
No other console had a better catalog of games than this system outside of possibly the playstation led by the magnificent
Ocarina of time jiggies and of course mario's quest jiggies. I've never heard of jiggies. No jig
They're like the stars equivalent for banjo kazooie to mario
They're the collectibles, but it's kind of weird like wait a minute. What did he say about the jiggies?
Like I thought he was naming the games. I thought he said that like doesn't have competition except for the playstation
Just like well, yeah
Go back on that because he was I thought he was naming games and all of a sudden he said jiggies
Did you hear that kid back then and owning this system?
It was like winning the lottery
No other console had a better catalog of games than this system outside of possibly the playstation led by the magnificent
Ocarina of time jiggies and of course mario's quest for stars
Okay
Okay, so he's an ocarina of time jiggies jiggies
So the ocarina itself the item in in ocarina of time
So but like two of those wait, is there a game called mario's quest for stars?
I think he's trying to be funny
No, well you say these are three items so you can collect jiggies you can collect stars and you can collect the ocarina of time
Yeah, but that's one item. It's not a collectible
Right, but the confusing part for me is the sentence structure. He says led by the playstation and then he
Listen to how he moves from talking about the playstation being competition and then into this sentence
It's three four. I mean just imagine being a kid back then and owning this system
It was like winning the lottery
No other console had a better catalog of games than this system outside of possibly the playstation led by the magna
The only other one ocarina of time it says outside of the playstation led by and then names
stars
jiggies and no the ocarina of time ocarina of time jiggies and mario's quest for stars
Led by so that is he trying to say that
The play like playstation was led by
Okay, i'm pretty sure he's making a joke. I'm so fucking confused
Was he trying to say that the pretty sure what everything on the n64 was led by these I could agree with that
But he said playstation. What the fuck's happening?
Slow it a little bit guys. We're already on the
We didn't even make it 30 seconds. I'm already confused
I love this
Banjo kazooie has items called jiggies. I've already established that's okay. Yeah, we we know that it's just that it was weird. He
Sentin structure was all over the place i'm gonna let him continue because like i'm already bewildered but
Right outside of possibly the playstation led by the magnificent ocarina of time jiggies
And of course mario's quest for stars not to mention games like perfect dark golden eye star fox jet force
Gemini roe squadron. I remember for days. You want to talk about a motive? This man risks his life for a chick
I mean just look at him. He's right
I love this man. You want to talk about a motive?
That was
He's like you wanted to talk about a motive. I mean look at this guy. It's like he he rushed into the next sentence
nowhere
It's like you want to talk about a move
it's like don't you need to have
Established a motive at some point to be like oh motive you want to talk about it
He just says you want to talk about a motive. It's like I don't know do we yeah, sure
He risks his life for a check
Um
Yeah, there's you know mario's a good guy
Can you believe that? I can believe it a plumber just needs to save his princess, you know
Talk about a motive this man risks his life for a chick. I mean just look at him
He's running around getting smashed by a ball and chain. He gets his ass. He's running around getting hit by a ball and chain
Man little does he know that peach is the ultimate ball and chain
Oh got him
Burnt off by molten lava. He's careening down the side of a damn mountain at a hundred miles an hour and he's
wow, a hundred miles down
It's even a slide in these little
Like 10 miles per hour, maybe
It's baby. You probably just run faster than that. But all right
Jumping on magical carpets in the sky just to get to her if he falls he's fucking dead. I mean this is
Oh
Baldi's fucking dead
Where's slowdle dig that
Wasn't prepared for this
Oh
Okay, missa missa gg's his daughter's it's daughter time that's all right, man
Thanks, sorry guys. That's okay. Thanks for problem. Thanks for coming on
Do you wanna do you wanna let people know in the chat where they can find you on your channel and what you get up to?
there
Mm-hmm. Uh, yeah, I'm the first link in the description. That's a priority. Oh, you can look at me there. I
make a
Not really one specific video but
Uh different types may be one of them appear to you. Maybe one of them don't and I don't know I make
Comedic videos you can find such accrued humor and dumb humor and dick jokes and everything you can enjoy under the sun
So maybe give it a chance if you're bored
If not, thank you guys for letting me on this podcast. I really appreciate it. I hope you had fun
It's um utterly insane. Don't worry. I'm aware of this
No, you guys are great. I really do enjoy these
Yeah, have a good night with whatever. Uh, however it is with the daughter. I hope she's all right
Yeah, no, she's good just being a baby
Yeah, I'll see you around
All right, thank you guys. Appreciate it. Bye. Bye. See you, dude. Toodles. Bye
You know rags every time that there's a child who's presenting issues in any way shape or form you can't just shout for denarius
We've had enough of this. Okay
It's fucked up
Every time with you
Um, so yeah back to sloanald donald gonna back to sloanald
A bunch of people say brit j on help. How does j get to just automatically come on if someone leaves?
How does that work? You can't kick him until he joins. That's true. Actually, isn't he just pre-kicked?
Isn't that how that works then?
Um, anyway, I need my sloanald. Okay happen. Yeah
Here we go
We'll go we'll go 0.5
And he's jumping on magical carpets in the sky
Just to get to her if he falls he's fucking dead. I mean this is the guy here
You want to talk about value? This game's got 15 unique levels
120 stars to collect
Hidden stages multiple objectives for each level flying sliding swimming. Okay, this one
Is
This is this is him he's so much more alive
I'm gonna I will say this
Notice that what he's talking about kind of matches up with the clips. Yeah, he's trying he's trying in for in for sloanald
That's like a big thing though
Huge and I do agree the swimming does suck you'll put in like a random loading screen or something
Or just so like the video settings menu like this video didn't do well for him
And so he moved away from it again, but sloanald. I just want to say i'm so proud of you for this
You did it good. It's it. It's just very happy doing this. It is a step forward. That's what matters for sure
there
You get them bowser stages and the boss fights
I
Want to see if that's more jarring at normal speed it's gotta be right
Cuts to it like yep, you got them bowser stages and the boss fights
You want to talk about quality I just can't
You want to talk about gameplay this game has 15 moves you can pull off from the start
It's just a fun game to play. You remember that word fun? Yeah, I almost forgot about it too. The only thing that's
I don't know what to say. I'm just like what look at him go
He's he's very he's very happy. He's so eager
Docs about this game is that the camera can pretty much get you killed half the time and the draw distance
Sucks, so picking up coins when you're flying. There's a piano other than that though. It's masterpiece
Other than that though, it's masterpiece
In banjo you play as a bear and you click puzzle pieces called jiggies to open doors to new levels
Collecting right there's all sorts of challenges and mini games get all jiggies
You can turn into a termite a pumpkin a bee a walrus crocodile. You can shoot eggs out of two his ass
It's just you've got who is this person that we're watching right now
I'm so happy tonal. What is happening?
Are you you can shoot you set of two? He's ass beta was my favorite. He's yeah, and if you fall you fucking die
You fucking dead. I mean you fucking die dead. Is this some of my expectations?
Y'all I'm impressed
Banjo is my favorite all the classics. They're covered here. You've got the giant mountain level. You've got the beach level this level is so
Satisfying I love pirates
Man that hippo pirate's daddy thick it makes sense captain total bloke would like pirates. This is this is just captain
captain total
He has been before it's one of the initial memes they drew remember bayou and drew him as captain jack that shit's old
I love pirates
Pirates banjo is my favorite. You got the beach level this level is so satisfying. I love pirates
Pirates with me
Pirates
Oh my god, did he say hoy matey after it as well
I didn't mean to go back. This is so satisfying. I love pirates. Ahoy matey
It's it's like he's finally reached the next tier of pretending to be
Ahoy matey that's human humans say that i pretended to be a human for this video
Oh
What happened because of national treasure is that the reference
Go back. I missed it pirates. Oh, hey matey. You got egypt. Uh, so where is nicholas cage at?
Oh
I see. Okay, like the idea being this like collecting ancient artifacts, I guess okay prince prince of egypt
Point why not brendan frazier?
Yeah, why not brendan frazier?
That's yeah that that would come to mind certainly before uh,
nicholas cage for me, but you know, what is I guess
The water level the snow level the swamp and the creepy hollowing mansion level the world is connected so well and it's so unique
There's a tree level that has four different seasons. There's a secret island you can fly into and each level has its own cool music
You know
Agree with all that. Yeah, right his what he has on his screen is relevant to what the video is
This is amazing. The clip was relevant. What he just expressed in that very short amount of time
Are actually fifth qualities of the game
Yeah, it wasn't just you randomly walking around the corner and down the hallway in some game. Nobody could identify
I this is so much better. It just did work out for him. Like let me let me check
Um, so I remember like some video saying like this this new it got 12 000 views, which is just not enough for tonaled
Oh, i've even left a comment on there three months ago. This is perfect tonaled content
Oh
Glad to see it holds up. Oh, yeah, this is next-gen content
Yeah, maybe mario 64 could learn from this one
Oh
It's just a fun game only if kazooie would shut the fuck up, why would you censor fuck you already said fuck you already fucked
He did he said fucking die
Weird I want us to remember that going forward whatever want to say someone died would you say fucking die?
Well, you know, maybe he's going for like the pg-13 rule now where you can only you get one f-bomb
Making jokes that aren't even half bad
I want to pat him on the back. You did it man. You you reached a new level. Here's your gold sticker
I'm proud of you
I can't believe i'm saying that was the first time you've impressed me. That was a really good joke
Chat that was good. Watch this again chat. This is actually good timing. Check this out
Oh god, that's bad. Oh wait, did I? No wait. Yeah, that's where it's going. Yeah
You could tell it
Like really good
Fluff there's no no escort crap no grinding. I just love it
If those two games weren't enough the zelda came next I mean, what can you say bad about zelda 64 it's perfect
I mean, this was the year that mortal combat special forces launched. Can you imagine competing with zelda?
What the fuck is this?
Oh no
The holy trinity destroyed everything in its path
It was the most perfect storm any three games could ever be
You want one of the greatest platformers ever play this game
You want one of the greatest adventure games ever play this game?
You want one of the I think you get the point the only thing the greatest
No, I wanted to know what you were gonna say because you already used platform for mario
And I was curious if you were just gonna double it up
I figured that's why he didn't he was like, I don't want to say but he could collect a thon
I could I could have gone back and changed it, but that would take some effort. So instead forget it
Try forget it. Fuck you
The one for you is for you to have fun get better and beat the damn game because they're constantly
Engaging and they get harder as you play them
The only bad thing about the holy trinity was that they overshadowed
holy trilogy
The damn game because they're constantly engaging and they get harder as you play them
The only bad thing about the holy trinity was that they overshadowed all everything around them
Even if those titles were actually good
Nobody remember he's like christopher walking the holy trinity
of
video games
Because he's playing members fuck good body hard
How many people missed out on blaster? Sorry, I have a shadow man request 64 my god
Those games were awesome too, but you know what they got covered up in that dark shadow. What about jet force Gemini?
What opposed to a light shadow?
What was that 164 I never played that yeah jet force Gemini was and it split screen
There was a dog. You could play as a dog with a gun. Hey, shit. I'm sold
What they got covered up in that dark shadow. What about jet force Gemini?
What a classic but left in the goddamn dust and then there's why you just censored fuck
But then you said goddamn right after it
So that was bad. That's fine
Yeah, yeah, they still say that pg13
Holy trinity that most people forgot about the most underrated
fun unique
Outland ished and inappropriate outlandish. I don't I don't I heard that too. Actually land ish
I don't think anybody forgot about conquer's bed for a day though. There was a belly mask
Yeah, you will love this game
higher generation
Conker's bad fur day conquer defied everything platformers stood for yeah, it's one of the best games on the system
One of the levels is a mountain of shit and the boss is poo, okay, then yeah
A bee has sex with a flower your life bar's chocolate. There's a boner joke. You rob a bank
Okay
So after you say a bee has sex with a flower following that up with your health bars chocolate
Not quite as shocking
Little bit little bit of a you know, thank farts. It's the matrix
Conquer pisses far there's cussing sex joke. The game was absolutely incredible
Wait sex. Yeah, did you say sex?
That's uh, he doesn't tonal doesn't know
Sex so we have to you rob a bank simple farts. It's the
Part naming it listing if they just farts
Part you rob a bank
farts
It's the matrix
conquer pisses
There's cussing
Why did he sex?
The game was absolute cuts out. You just do sex sex. Yeah
The game is good
Little what'd you do this to us? You rob a bank? Oh no no farts. It's far matrix
conquer pisses
There's cussing sex joke. The game was absolutely incredible
Is he making those sounds yes, yeah he is
I think you might need to do that and get down as well that sex. Just interrupt yourself out of nowhere
They rob bangs and not three farts
farts, yeah
That's gonna make no sense
I say that's gonna make no sense. None of it makes any sense, but that will make no sense
Yeah, super hot
Sadly the world just wasn't ready for conquer
Conquers m rating scared away
Loving mothers across the world from buying it for little jimmy
The
pesky loving mothers
It offended reviewers as well. Even though the platforming was solid the graphics were
Unbelievable for the time and it was
extremely fun
That's a motherfucking shame
Go play some conqueror it's the final piece in the holy trinity what which I get
How can they be full pieces in a trinity? There's four pieces of the trinity mauler
Four four pieces in the trinity there's four pieces in the trinity
Does he mean like how in the triforce there's that cent a bit? Is that what he's saying?
Conquer fits the center. No because then he'd call it the triforce. I was gonna say it would be the quad force at that point
That's a motherfucking shame. Go play some conqueror. It's the final piece in the holy trinity, which I guess would be a
This video is
insane
He knows he's he like he learned he's corrected things pretty sure we've seen videos
More recently that came out after this that were awful
So this is this is just one moment of lucidity that he had
And it's gone and interesting because like we expected him to like not
Even realize it and then he does like he does. Yeah expectation subverted, baby
Therefore good quad. Yeah quad trinity
Let me know if you like these kinds of videos thumbs it up or drop the comments comments i'll make more
Also, thanks for watching. Let me know if you like these kinds of videos thumbs it up or drop the comments
Bye bye
This is like edgy total this is him being edgy I swear
It
After that cool music
This just didn't end just questions the enigma that is toned look like how do you even
This is you think you're just once you think you're a little closer to understanding him
Yeah, you see this and it's just why or why it's all over it is. Nothing makes it he said
Um
This is this is actually considering, you know, I don't mean this in a disparaging way
But since we lost our guests, there's actually a couple more things we could cover that I meant to cover in this podcast
A couple of stars. Oh my goodness. Dear waas related thing
Drawers
Dear wares
By the way. No chat. I haven't gotten my monthly thrust yet. Oh
You have to depress me with that kind of news
Somebody mentioned it
Oh
Yeah, this is this is one
All right, so you're ready to read an excerpt from an arctic hule
I'm always ready to read reading is my I don't want I don't want people to get the wrong impression. So i'm gonna say
What I think this is frong's I didn't look into the source exactly beyond a couple of lines
But i'm pretty sure it's a comic continuity for star wars
or a novel whatever
Newly brought out by disney loads of people sent me this so my assumption is that this is a reality
This is like a partial summary of what happens in the um comic itself
It is not in the films as of yet
And so uh doomcock like put out a tweet saying he's not concerned yet because this isn't
You know 100 but it's not fucking good that it's where it is right now
So uh joy
All right
Whether or not emperor palpatine ever returns there's no denying that his empire's greatest weakness was having him as a leader
cruel
Vindictive hateful and detested across the galaxy. It's a miracle emperor palpatine took as long as he did to lose all power
but now
Star wars has revealed the woman who is actually keeping the empire together all those years
despite its incompetent leader
imperial minister patina voor
Oh, oh, yeah this oh
She was the reason it all worked. He was kind of just an idiot. It was hateful. Yeah, palpatine was actually a fucking idiot
It was actually a woman you never knew of or heard before who was making it all work
Obviously in the prequels. He doesn't really plan anything. He doesn't
Organize stuff to happen in a particular way. He's kind of stupid
And so it was a plot hole for a lot of people like how how could it possibly work?
And now they've answered it
imperial minister patina voor
Yay
I'm a woman
established characters
Like kill them all destroy them
Like the people like it's not gonna be the film but it's like god, maybe it will be
What's gonna happen?
um
I don't want to really make a bit other than just okay. It's it will be fine. It's fine
Um, this is great. I think this is great
I'm sure it's nothing we won't be need to be concerned but like does it not sound like exactly the kind of thing that they would do
and you're just like
It's been what the I mean, it's in line with everything else they've done so far
Shit on the old in with the new
So I think people will find this
Oh wait two different people have said she gets killed by vader
Good
I don't want to make of that, but yeah, okay
um
Yeah, again, that's that makes it even worse because it's like oh we're not even going to go through the trouble
Of putting her in stories or anything. We're just gonna say oh, no vader killed her, but it was it was a woman
Made it all yeah, does that wait the fact that vader kills it is that that doesn't counter
The fact that they're establishing that she's the reason that the empire ran functionally, right?
Because they're saying is bait and it's like it's not necessarily bait if she's just dead
Is it yeah, you get like mega busted as a result of turning on this kind
Yeah, I don't know. This is the thing
There's no need to explore any context there because as far as i'm aware, it's not it's not canon. So
fine
unless
Became canon which would be very concerning I guess but that would again be like I wonder how they would do it
Maybe we'll find out. I don't know
um
Either way, I guess I can
Oh, hang on
Do
I'm all excited for batwoman aren't you guys
I'm a woman
Yeah
Can't wait. So I was I was told to be aware of um
Apparently mr. Joseph anson was asked about me on a stream and they wanted to send me a clip
So I figured we'd play it on good old efap just to see what he said
I mean
Just just setting it up there we go
This will be fun
Any thoughts on mauler? I don't have any strong opinions on maul because I haven't watched any of his content
Uh from our twitter interactions
Not that great, but I have no real thoughts on his content. Um
When when you like you insult when you insult another creator not another person
Not another person mind you when you insult when you insult somebody no, no when he insults another creator
Does he never?
Give it a play for assault in his entire life
Don't humanize mauler
Look at the chest this mauler guy seems like a douche like based on what the fact that I called him a faggot really
Come on. It's just kind of like
Why would you?
waste the time on on someone when you know, like there are other people that you could have more
probably politer conversations with and
There's not that
Issue going right into it, you know
Yeah
I'm guessing he's saying he wouldn't want to waste time on me because he could find people to have more polite conversations with it
And you wouldn't have the issue going in that i've insulted him previously
Uh
Okay
I mean we already kind of knew this I i'm still just kind of like wow
All right
Issue going right into it, you know
Yeah, I don't know and we know you don't know but I have no I have no strong opinions on his content
I have no negative or positives. Uh, his videos are probably pretty good
Um, they're really long. So they probably have evidence based. No long man bad
In media at the moment. No, no easy. Well, he's a long man as well. So he's not uh, he's not burnt
He knows he can't play that card
what
Thing is like he's not disparaging belong though. So that's at least good. Yeah, he's he's definitely saying it's a good
In media at the moment and I think they're somewhat successful aren't they especially the the star wars stuff, right?
I don't know enough about him. So
He seems to have found his audience for sure
All right. That's it. Okay, there's not much really to talk about but it's just like
his rationale is
The there's no point in wasting time on a discussion that wouldn't be polite because apparently
If you've thrown an insult someone ever
You're not going to be a polite person
Never
Joseph has never insulted anybody. You would never stoop. He's a nice man. He wouldn't do that
um
Then
There's another video from a different creator coming to guard a different host of efap
Because that's apparently the section that we're in right now
and yay
But this one I was always made aware of
I was only made aware of this relatively recently
Despite the fact that it's been out for a while, but I just I didn't know about it
um
Yeah, this is
I hate everything's podcast
with a friend of his
And they're just discussing some stuff. We're just gonna give it a listen
no harm
No foul. Well, the lighting is actually
Good
And I was noticing there was a bit dark, but I just didn't
Decide to look sorry. Sorry everybody for that interruption
Yeah, there isn't really much more to say. Um, it's just like they
He shouldn't he if he's going to get upset by a video. He should at least watch it
Here's any problem. Yeah
I can I I do know the feeling believe it or not. Um, my my equivalent
One of those kind of moments for me from my perspective would be that that rags video that you made on yeah boy. Yeah, boy
Oh
No, here we go. Yep
Um, oh, but that's a shit. That's a shit video. That's a shit video rags
That's a shit video for reasons that I will not articulate nor explain the shit video that moore and rag spent like
Fucking 10 hours talking you speak
The broad now is talking about how we were actually right all along
We brought on the fucking author of the video who agreed though. It was several
Very awful elements to the video. So
You see here's the thing of all three persons involved
Ihe regrets making his video
TRO probably regrets making his has unlisted his video
Mine is still up and publicly available and I stand by everything that i've said you have two videos going through how it's accurate
So
I just of the three of us
I'm the only one who apparently is standing by and has defended what they've said
just saying
Like that's that's not like your video on him. It's a I never made a video on him
No, you make the video on I made a video on the yeah smosh. That was actually, you know fair points because it's movie shit
It's fair points because the smosh movie shit but tlj is not it's fine
Yeah, that's great
Don't make a stupid video on you about the last year. I'd be and made no points and it was just a crap video
No points. I made no points
There were no points made and also because of his accent he pronounced crap as crap
It's a double instead of it all
The video was crap
Quap
Quap. Yes, you made no point must be fun having like
Does the guy even seen your video like I don't even think the people who dislike it wouldn't say the zero points
We spent two efaps on it. Yeah, we didn't even finish
Um, yeah
For those who don't know I made a video on the last jedi on ochi which a lot of people have issues with
You have issues with it, too
We're not happy with the video which I can understand some of and some did overreact to be fair. Oh, yeah. Okay
And then rags made this with this very lengthy video which
I'm i'm not a fan of but he's allowed to think what he thinks. I suppose there you go rags
You can think what you think
My first experience of wags was a tweet retweeted onto my feed
There was like 2006
PC master race memes and instantly blocked him. Wow. That's so amazing. Wow
It's like hey, did you hey someone retweeted a rags pc?
Master race meme on twitter. So I instantly blocked him
That yeah, that's something to brag about that's something that you should publicly let everyone hey, yeah
Yeah, he posted some some just some funny pc master race meme because that's the videos he did at the time
And I just blocked him
He's calling you wags
wags
Wags wags is crap
Yep, that would happy when wags tweets would be a base with wags tweets. I block him wags. I walk i'm on twitter
That rascoly wags wascoly wascoly
So wags wags is crap wascoly wags
This is like
You block people for sharing memes what's wrong with you? Wow that that if anything well, that is a that's an interesting self-own my dude
Yeah, what a willy clappy thing to do what a wascoly little clappy
Oh
Yeah, obviously that was also oh he is actually a bit yeah my number one issue with the rags video was that um
It's it's strange to do a reaction type video
Without watching it first
What it's strange to do a reaction video without watching it first I guess
Ihe thought I didn't watch the video first
It kind of sounds like that's what he's saying
I think what he's trying to say maybe is like
If you're if you hadn't seen the ihe video you wouldn't have proper context for your video or something
I think is what he's saying. No, he's saying that it's weird to do a response video
When you haven't watched the video first
More common for reaction videos rather than less common impression that I didn't watch ihe's video
And then
Your whole video was in my video I had to have seen it beforehand
I'm going to assume best faith analysis as he's saying you were first watching it as you were responding to it
Even then I don't know. I know. Well, that's kind of what i'm trying to highlight
I'm like first of all
That's not a bad thing because that's pretty much typically what most react with this like our podcast is entirely that. Um
doesn't mean that
Like you you've also it doesn't what i'm trying to say is like address the points were the points valid or not
It doesn't matter whether or not he even saw the video if the points are valid
But but he did because he put the video in there and he's responding to words you were using
It's pretty clear if the fault that I had said was I heard ihe said this and it was a quote that ihe
Actually said and I responded to that. It would have the exact same effect
A wascally women difference
You'd watch a clip of the video then pause it and then let go on like a diatribe about something
Yeah, then I continue right and then a lot of the time he would find
Well, I would notice that after making some of his points and then he resumed the video
Then that my next sentence would counterpoint is the very prove it
Yeah, when because we didn't find any of those. Yeah, we went over it. So prove it
Yeah, we went over it in excruciating 15 hour fucking long detail and we didn't really
Prove it
That's all I have to say
Alex prove it
Yeah, you're you're telling you're it's easy to say this when you're talking to a guy who blocks people on twitter because they posted a pc meme
Well, I mean the guy may as well just have a sign on his face that says I agree
Yeah
Like come on dude
very thing making his
His response like irrelevant. It's it's a bad way to make a like a video like that because you're just kind of
Yeah, you know what I mean, no, I don't know explain yourself no clue I have I have no fucking clue what you were talking about
Hey, but yeah, you know, I mean it's nice and yeah a good way
No, yeah, no, yeah, no, yeah, no, yeah, yeah
If I could take my last yellow video back I would in some respects
Um, I think people were expecting a more
Like something coherent something consistent with your other way I would like something coherent from this podcast something respectable
You know any of those really
not negative but more
More of an explanation as to what I like to have disliked about in chat just to be clear
This wasn't an NPC meme
This was a pc meme like a personal computer meme because this was I guess back when I was doing pc console
Stuff, so I would have like a pc meme
Right. He saw that and he blocked me
Because someone retweeted a pc meme of mine
So that's why is he proud of that that's why like what is
Yeah, wouldn't be something that I advertise
Fringy just asked uh wags. Why are you such a wascal?
Yeah
Sorry, I didn't mean to be I'm just a wasky
I feel like we're getting a lot of memes for that
Let's open it up some shit. We're gonna have you're gonna be bugs buddy. He's gonna have an elba fun with that guy's face on it
I'm hunting
Yeah
Whereas I kind of skipped over that intentionally to talk more about you know, the fan response and the reactions and everything
Um, yeah, it's the most h it's my most disliked video by far because it's your worst video
I've watched basically your entire catalog. So as a huge fan. It's your worst video
Yeah
Hence the was a huge fan
I just want to make sure that
I'm glad I made mine and I stand up for everything that I said
I'm not gonna say that I regret making it. Yeah, and if there is something
Proveably wrong in it
So just let's go do it figure it out
I doubt if rags was presented with that I doubt he'd be like, you know
Want to see the evidence that's all
Examples of how civilized conversation would be neat
fan
Three video i've ever made and I didn't and that's over. I don't think um
I think the most positive thing I said about the movie aside from direct doesn't matter. Um
Sort of positives about
You know action sequences or vague things like that was
Action sequences of vague things like that
Okay
It doesn't even like what you even thought of the movie wasn't even
A lot of like the points people had people didn't care that you liked it. It wasn't yeah
That's not the problem. The one the thing I remember the most was him saying
the uh
He people like cinema sins and even him to a degree of ruining film discussion and criticism
And it was all because of the fact that people were ripping into a movie you liked
And you told me and wolf you asked us you weren't even sure of why you liked it after we broke down the plot with him
He was like
Not even sure what it is about the film that I really enjoy and we were like it's probably a superficial aspect and that's fine
Because we like I really liked the force awakens, but looking back i'm like I enjoyed it for really superficial reasons
And
It's fine and it's just like yeah the video says that star wars is about finding like the light side finding the hope
And the fans are not doing that. It's the most like what the hell are you doing right now?
I had my overall impressions with that. I liked the movie or I enjoyed the movie
I enjoy
Plenty of you know bad movies. I I enjoyed the meg
You know, so I was getting attacked effectively
Maybe not attacked, you know christ, dude
Come on
Like I don't have to say that it's like you're not a baby, you know that we we all get attacked every day
If you want to define it that way
Internet attacked over enjoying a movie. Yeah. Yeah, you've been previously attacked for not enjoying a movie. What's the difference?
Why does it suddenly matter now so much?
It's so weird that we get
It's like this is from six months ago. It has 37 000 views
like do people not
Give a shit about these
I'm surprised that um, it has how many views and I only I was only made aware of it recently
I might have just missed it from other people sending it
But yeah, like I thought this must have been recent because like i'm surprised you would have said all of this
I don't know why he's just why kick the hornet's nest continuously while also never wanting to have discussions
Why is this a consistent element snipe from a distance snipe from a distance? How many people do this to us?
It's like stop just have a conversation or leave us alone. What do you want?
And they're like, I will I want to throw stones at you, but they run away into my glass house
Grabbed nice and safe go to a wax
Well, I was gonna say wax it wags they throw walks and then they go into their house
I was like the house isn't made of glass glass houses
Glass
There you go. The house is made of grass houses. You're not 12 stones
Walks even yeah, dude, it's even more
It's even more poignant because if you throw rocks while living in a grass house
That's gonna fuck up completely
Don't throw walks if you're living grass house
Enjoy hobson's show like oh, yeah, that's gonna be great
So yeah, that was a whole whole thing whole thing
Yeah, point is I could understand why my smosh
Ian might have been upset over it, but I never you know meant for it to be a personal thing
It's just it's just a movie
Yeah, and similarly rags didn't mean to hurt you personally. He's just addressing how shit your video was which is content
It's a review. It's it's a critique whatever you want to call it
These these things are content
Like the idea that you criticize smosh's movie and you want to try and argue it's like oh, well, you know
You shouldn't be offended. I'm just going after his cards. It's the exact same thing
I went on a diatribe
Because like this is this isn't the first time as well because they'll be like you can criticize movies
You can't criticize criticism of movies because that's that's someone you're criticizing at that point
It's like do you think ryan johnson likes it when people criticize this movie?
Oh
Nope gets all upset. You're like no, there are no problems. Fuck you
Um
I think that's it though a movie's a movie. It's not it's not the end of the world
Definitely not coming from you. That's rich
Yeah, yeah
See I see I also have one of those moments is when people um thrilling
This is great content one more free unboxing video that we'll see this is the thing right with when we run a podcast
I'm very concerned about dead air as well as uh topics ever running out of gas. I need to
You stop it. It's literally the job of a host
This one seems to be like these guys bumped into each other on a park bench. They're like, all right
Hey, man
Really, you know
Really? That's cut deep. Yeah, that's cut deep. I still you know think about it every night
Oh that person said i've got a funny voice
Well, obviously we don't think that
We we uh, we would say this don't post a meme on the twitter net or else we'll get lucky blocks
It's a good reason to box somebody i'd say absolutely
um
Yeah, that was that was weird, but um, so this is pretty funny someone made this compilation
Um, i'm sure you guys will get it
But i'm hoping to play it all in one
It's pretty
To state that your opinion
Bring it back. Uh, the only context you need is uh, quinton reviews is defending. I hate everything's position in this video
All right, like that's what he was doing with tiaro
All you need let's go to state that your opinions which mostly come down to things like thoughts about the lore and nitpicks about dialogue
Are objective facts that can never be disputed by anyone
Is ridiculous now, I really don't get much pleasure in saying this
But if you think that suicide squad is a well-rounded great piece of cinema
You are wrong
Uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh, uh-oh
Uh-oh, bear in mind suicide squad came out before tlj. So this is before all of this happened. He'd already said this
very wrong actually
I did derive a lot of pleasure in saying that let us compare and contrast
If you go to I hate everything and you tell him I disagreed with your video
I didn't like your video and I hated the last jedi
He will at least be sensible enough to tell you
The vast majority of my points are not about perspective. We are talking about facts
um
They're trying to do a cut for style there basically
because this is what I he's taking one of my quotes
and um
Quinton's saying that I hate everything isn't like stupid enough to say something like this like that's what the editor's trying to say that quinton
She does well, this is the thing we're about to see it
It's the fact that
Let me just get the list out. The pacing is atrocious. The film starts like 17 times
It's like a dozen trailers all dragged together in premiere that will just kind of start out of nowhere
No thought put into any of it. The editing is awful
The use of the soundtrack is insulting and jarring the dialogue is beyond predictable and vapid
The visual effects aren't even good. The action is poorly filmed and dull the cinematography and lighting is bland
The motivation of the characters flip all over the place when it's convenient
The performances are fucking awful and the film can't even decide on what tone it wants to have
I am seriously doubting your capacity to understand quality
So all in all I think it is perfectly okay to enjoy this movie if you want more power to you
It's just that if you tell me that you enjoy this movie on any level other than yeah, I know it's completely flawed
Broken poorly written and pretty terrible in every way, but I still enjoyed it, but i'm sorry
But you have absolutely no critical capability
Oh no, oh lastly waskelly wabbit
And of course my personal favorite
If you like the last jedi good luck calling other films bad and to clarify quickly for everybody
He's taking that from the context of me trying to say
The last jedi has basically every kind of writing flaw
And so if you try and say another film is bad
It's very likely that flaw will be in the last jedi. So it's going to be pretty difficult to reconcile it
That's all that means what they think it means the people who hate me is that
I think it's impossible to call something else something you don't like
Because i'm right the tlj should be hated by everybody or whatever. But interestingly, let's see what happens next
And i'm not saying you're a bad person if you do like this movie
I'm, just saying if you like these movies
You should never talk to anyone who considers themselves a fan of film about film because you're blind at fucking
You did an oopsie
That's a good meme
Yeah, it's like the ones that are true pretty much just does everything for we don't have enough to do much commentary
It's just that
That pretty well summarizes the whole point. Yeah, it's all encapsulated very neatly and it's nice convenient package
And again like
I feel like I could get on with him really easily if he just talked to me like a person for once
I mean I say for once i've talked to him before and it's been productive. I would say
I don't know what's going on like that. That podcast is weird and um, it clearly has resentment never going to be addressed
While me and rags are confused because we're fine with everything and so we're like, is there somebody you want to talk about?
It's like no it's like, okay, and then stuff like that happens. We're like, okay, I guess there is something you want to talk about
It kind of feels like he's trying to please both parties
It's like once he's in the face of somebody who like is judgmental of like another party
He's like he's just trying to meet both of them
And then like snipe at each of them when they're in the company of the other person
You know what i'm saying?
So it just kind of seems like he's trying to please everybody and he'll just say what needs to be said in their company
It's a journey so it's like if you get if you've got you know, you've got mr
Blocked with a pc master waste, uh, then it's like, you know, he doesn't like rags
And so he's like well, I better I better I better wag on wags now. So
I think that's just how it's got to be got to keep the status quo
um
There were more uh twitter arguments with batman falling but funnily enough
It was like with people who really look a lot of them weren't me
And uh, one of them was people aren't you one of them was actually j
And um the one the one I want to show
I think you guys have seen this before but yeah, ready to probably write back. Oh, well, we'll wait. We'll wait for rags
Um
Oh, yeah, uh, obviously thanks to the person who made that compilation by the way, um, it was good shit the
Combo back and forth with winton
condemning me for making comments that were actually tame compared to what I hate everything said in the past while defending I hate everything from it
It's just like
such a clusterfuck
wags
Um, yeah again, I still don't have bad blood
But he's it's like he wants there to be
Yeah
Like I don't know. I think he's just trying to be a little too neutral like he's he's trying to satisfy all parties
And it's getting weird
Because like I don't it clearly like anybody who is willing to concede those kinds of points
is
I don't he doesn't seem like the kind of guy. I know that's not
I know that's kind of weird for somebody who doesn't even know the guy
But I don't know. He just kind of doesn't seem like the guy that wants bad blood. I just think he's trying to appease
All parties who don't like each other and so it's like he's just trying to stay in the middle now. It's getting awkward
Yeah, honestly, I I got the impression from talking to him that he'd like it if everything was just fine
But the first thing I tell him is like okay, so you're gonna want to stop talking about rags randomly
because
it's like
Solving anything you're just making it look weird having your friends say rags didn't even make any points like uh
Yes, there will be something similar at christmas 24
Wags is already christmas no for efap, you know
We got it. We got if we got this halloween theme. We're gonna have to have a christmas one, too
I don't know christmas happened today. Didn't you hear the joy to the world? Come on, man. No, that was august
Like that was when christmas was
Oh shit, I missed it. You get two christmases every year one at august one at christmas
Oh, no dead ear mauler's worst nightmare i'll survive with dead ear it's fine
Me and das bullshill just talk about random shit. Oh, did you see that random shit on the road that one day?
Oh, man, that was random as hell. I reckon it was a dog that did that and no offense to rags. I'm just saying like
Dogs tend to do that sort of that. That's I know that's profiling. I'm sorry
I'm just saying like statistically dogs poop on the road. Do you agree? Yeah, they absolutely absolutely
And like, you know, they they and they got their little raggy tails
They usually name their dogs wags
You know and they poop on the road. It's just kind of the way things are you and
People do it too in san francisco
Well, there's a lot of places and you know, it's good for the it's good for the it ferments the road
That's not the word i'm looking for it it feeds the road
It it goods the road you need it
Yes, it's very very good
Very good. So, you know, keep keep pooping. That's the all-natural way to go. A lot of people will tell you it's bad to poop
and the
Filling air time we're talking about poop is a bad thing. Ignore them full of shit. Mm-hmm
Yep, um, but they would be less full of shit if they pooped more
I mean, that's just natural, isn't it? Unless you're like a poopy machine. What if you ate food that was
Like i'm trying to think is there any scenario where you could probably keep pooping and eating forever big trail
Join back in human centipedes
With poop
How you doing rags did you go poop
Um
Yeah, I did. What was it?
Excellent. It was it went out. I went all right. It wasn't my best, but it was it was pretty good
It was better
Oh
Dead
I need you to look at this hilarious meme that someone posted in my discord that made me laugh
Oh
God damn it. I gotta get that on screen put that up
I need to change my icon to like a hot werewolf daddy. Ah, well, you can't do that. That's wolf's thing
No, you could have you could have a werewolf dog
Yeah, I don't have a were dog. I have a were sheep. Yeah a werewags
We have I've actually got something being made. I thought it was going to be done today, but it wasn't so
next week
Well, wait, we're doing stuff tomorrow aren't we yes, but not tomorrow not um, you know
Not live
Well, but we are doing stuff. Yeah, but
Like my like if you record the discord thing it might have it. Oh, yes true. True. That is true
I'm full of the true things
Oh, that'll be awkward someone said rags be a mummy doggo or vampire. No, I want to be a big fucking werewolf stud
That's a big big daddy werewolf were sheep
I'm pretty I feel pretty strong in this conviction. So I I doubt you'll be able to sway me sway me down the path
Okay. Well, just make sure wolf's not present. He's gonna think well
I am gonna be here it is what no
You can't you can't know you can't choose wolf and be like oh other people are stealing my identity
I can't believe other people chose wolf too. Well, isn't that cultural appropriation? No
Oh, well, that is the fact that you just said no because no belongs to the tribe of yubat ways
So if you could use a different word to express your denial, please
It is written on the last tablet of alhabam
Oh, yeah, I saw this exchange and
I can't believe people like this exist like so jay said something that's pretty
Not controversial
And then fat my phone was like are these people real?
Yeah, every even like his fans and stuff we're going yeah, but what was wrong with what he said
I actually don't understand what was wrong with what he said. If you look at the tweet
Responses his fans are like I don't understand. What's the problem?
Like
All of the responses all of the responses are have more likes than his tweet and they're like
Yeah, I don't understand how you don't understand and isn't he right?
Why is this why is this making you upset?
It reminds me of like you try to start a mob to shout at things
They're all just like looking around like where's the thing? What's the bad show me? He's like he's right here
And you're like, I don't see it
um, someone had the great idea of started as like a beam where we just have
He's captured of are these people real and you just put like anything in there different snapshots and stuff
Oh no
I'm thinking there's a lot of potential for that but uh, who knows who knows what people want to do with it
Fat man following everybody
Living up to his name, I guess so
Yeah, we got we got some memes
Digging a hole
Oh no
I like one of the responses to that fat man tweet was what part do you take issue with is the son of cat?
Is the son of cat?
Um, yeah, I feel like you're right
See a lot more of a moment
I imagine we'll be seeing very very very many elmifuds. This is apparently some progress being made on on the like efap trading card game
Oh, um
Host recurring guest action portal swap a status card another player
It's time that we finally get a depiction of malon as a strong black male character
Attack character assassination basic attack removes one basic defense card. My name is bowler and i'm a level three critic foot here
Oh, no
Fall out 76 is better than being a pet
Status cloud worries player must say god damn in every sentence drink every time you forget
Wow
Fucking contests challenge any players winning steals a status card from the loot
Yeah, I don't know if this is actually gonna be a full-on card game with unique rules or anything or if it's just funsies
I actually have no idea but
Getting a game balancing and everything just for a meme. It's like that's some dedication right now
um like the rendition
little santa hat
little spider
The e is up to the ceiling
Definitely long i'm guessing i've got a little rags cut into the the pumpkin
Oh, I see I got the little shades in the glass. I see I see it's my little face his little doggy face
Love it
I was about to say man. That's fucked up jack-o-lantern, but then
Oh, wait a minute now, it's really handsome all of a sudden all of a sudden it's became incredibly alluring. I can't explain it
Okay, can I fuck that thing?
I fucked that pumpkin
Massive adoption universal cosmic chicken long meant bad
Elevator music rhino milk middle molar mouse middle orphanages universe miles
spider oracles efap memers
Autotunnel the creator of the cosmic chicken and our protector goliath formerly only known as the
That's good, I feel like molar mouse would be this horrible
Version where I was taken over by disney or it's the persona I take when I try to smash names
Disney employees or something. I don't really know. You know, it could be anything
Does this say paper in the bottom left?
Yes paper like maths paper I like it
What if he was doing this in school in the middle yeah, I think it was because if you look over on the top
And looked at it like what the fuck is it?
Yeah, there's notes
There's like bits of notes over on the left hand side. You can see a little bit
Looks like yeah, I think that's exactly what happened. Honestly, there is no explaining
Riding is hard making rat is hard
Yeah, we're making i'm making good rat. Oof
Oh, that's a good rat. I don't even want to go there. Oh, that's a brilliant rat. That's a great rat
Also, we're gonna get more of these
It wasn't even him who said it I know but it's still funny it is funny though
Um, I don't even know who the other guy was so it's like it's we just like we'll just draw the distinction here
All right, so I think I get super chat time now, right or have I fucked it up still
I gotta know if i'm fucking it up. Never know where they say this
Let me check my sub here
Um, yeah, what?
There we go. Yeah, uh, so we're at four hours if we do the super chats we'll make five
Oh my sweet summer child. It's it's full 23
not from 23
Um, we're gonna take a little longer than that
But I mean good to get started, you know, so we can start answering these these questionists
uh
by going
back
And yeah by next week we'll actually be able to talk about joker it'll be great
Invite a guest who knows stuff about joker. It's gonna be horrifying
We did it
We got through videos
We read a thing. Yeah, we did the response all kinds of things happen in this episode. You can't really even yeah
We're all over the place
We have a we do have a tradition that we have to you know, we have a reputation that we have to keep
Mm-hmm
We have to subvert expectations because that means good
Um, so this is this from creamy sheave says when you massage my anus you will use cream
When you when you massage my anus my anus
Hello all my n-words and happy birthday to the longman why thank you and uh, I appreciate that
It's his birthday he doesn't know all these but he's got a couple guesses
Three it's gonna be one of the three is has anyone ever been an age that's not one of three options. Oh
See that silence is what I would call agreements I think they are putting down agreements is that not right wasco we mower
Hello all my neighbors hello
Hello all my neighbors rags. I still poop with the door open and I hang up my pants when I do it
You hang up your pants. Well, I understand like
I'm doing you know, I'm dressing your pants and putting them somewhere
I get that I understand
Yeah, it makes sense to me. You don't want it. You don't want to mess up, you know and get
Say something on those pants. I'm not gonna go further than that. I don't want to describe graphic detail
This is a very this is a children's podcast. So
This is just a space wizard children cast made for pod
Ders
Hello again long man poop. That is all hello
And I hope your poop is okay. I'm taking care of it
Daddy rags has a massive wiener ar pistol gang
I like that
of course
Am I supposed to get it? It's true though. What is what is it ar pistol gang who they
AR pistol gang. I don't actually have an ar pistol. So
Dabs and nae nae's
Why would you why would you
Thank you dabs and nae nae's
You look like a bionicle mola. I'm okay with this. I played with bionicle when I was younger
You look a little bit like bionicle uncle cool dead movies
That was the spider all along. I don't I don't know what you mean. Have you predicted anything?
I don't remember
No, the real predictions are the spiders we met along the way
Now I feel like you're just combining random things and saying stuff that doesn't make any sense. I don't believe in it
I have a feeling that you have to
the kitchen sink in the bathwater baby also
to
Farts short of a storm cloud. So there you go
Want it to stick that in your pipe and smoke it on the way to the bank. I'll do it
but
Mola last efap you dissed me for liking dark souls 2 just as I dislike dark souls 3 and that is fine
I can deal with that
However, you implying I am down with h dumber guy is deeply insulting to me. I would appreciate a sincere apology for that
Um, I apologize for implying that you like h dumber guy
I take it back the implication
It's clearly made an error
Wait, Jeffrey dumber guy what why isn't h dumber guy probably what it was
Also molar I cannot get on your discord with link really
I will check to make sure the link is still working. Um, but it should do
I've heard of that happening every once in a while
I mean, it gives the difference between if you put a time limit on them all the permanent, right?
But pretty sure it should be a permanent
um
Happy birthday long man. Also. This stream is too spooky. So I can't watch this plus i'm still catching up you massive. Also. Hi rags
Hello and kick jay
Yep, he's pre-kicked. Like I said pre-kicked
I forgot the yeet part
of war
Oh dabs nae nae's and yeet that's what they were gunning for
Well dabs yeets and nae nae's. Thank you. Uh, happy birthday. Thanks for the great content. Thank you
Hey birthday molar. Hi rags
Hello
It's almost been a year since I first watched efap. Thank you for all the joy you have brought to my life. No
But it kind of you
You have increased the happiness in the world molar that makes up for your tlj video
No, no that guy's happiness is dwarfed by the millions. We've made unhappy by critics. We destroyed media criticism
But you're a level three critic. Yeah
Think of all the people we've
E-leveled with our podcast there's plenty of level fives out there that became level ones. Thanks to us a bunch
A lot of mobs have to die to get to level three. This is how it is. Oh, so that's okay
You can kill a bunch of level fives to become a level three. That's okay
It's not okay. I'm just saying that's the way the world works. Yeah. All right. That's the way it works and complain vicious circle
Uh, you're a space child intended for wizards harry
Oh
No, no a lot of implications there. Are you reggae's for wizards though? Hello. Wish molar a happy birthday
Mahler, I hope you have a happy 20 12th birthday
2012 birthday
Uh, who knows what you're gonna say it is tomorrow. I'm just i'm just heading you off. You think i'm gonna jump to 2012 years old
Yep, nice
If I can live that long probably I can achieve something right to invent particle physics conundrum space teleportation
And see sounds like uh
That sounds like an attainable goal that you should strive to complete exactly like some people like you'll never do that
It's like that's what they said to einstein before he invented the wheel. What do you think he did?
You know what is it really an invention though? Well, had you seen it before then?
No, because you went alive the einstein wheel exactly
Um
I would dishonored wolf that hit my feelings
Don't know what you're referring to because I didn't even know he was here in this podcast. I don't
Think you the anybody would have that profile in chat. But um, yes, i'm not sure
We mentioned or anything but all right
Uh forgot to say hi rags
Hello, do I have to read this out?
boo-woo
You have said it
We could have
We could have created that out of other things i'd said anyway, but you are truly
More loving your trump cosplay also. Hi rags
Hello
I I yeah, I mean, yep. See I the delay is what makes it
Um, yeah, I mean always always leaving wanting more. I don't believe
That trump has green eyes
But if he does then yes, this is a trump cosplay
Um joker was amazing
Uh, yakuin phoenix deserves an oscar. Also the score was awesome done by the same composer who did shinoble. Ooh
Oh, fascinating. Yes, the score was excellent as well. That score was
Great. Hello all n words and happy birthday. Thank you
Make efaps rogues gallery to be courage the dogs
I would how would the rogues gallery be courage the dogs?
Make efaps road gallery to be courage the dogs
What does that mean?
I must decipher this
To be courage the dogs. Mm-hmm. Well, yeah courage the courage the dog. I would want to make efaps rogues gallery that
I'm like it made sense to you explain it to me. How's this wick?
Courage the cowardly dog is uh the cartoon character
Yeah, how does that translate to the first bit
What's the first bit again, um, make efaps rogues gallery to be courage the dogs
Um
So our rogues gallery should be courage the cowardly dog. So I guess rogues gallery is like a like a thing
Well, it's just it's like it's like your set of villains
Oh
I mean, I know what rogues gallery I thought it was referring to
Like a podcast name or a character's name or something on the internet
Like our version of them on the podcast would be courage the cowardly dog
That's what I that's what I thought originally or a jynally some might say
Not in chat said I think he meant courage's villains
Perhaps I will never decipher it. Um
Every fright or panic howdy rags howdy all
I
Am I hello. Hi, i'm great. I'm great. I'm doing great things are great. All as well
We got ourselves tonaled and he said hello all he didn't say howdy all that was my fuck up
I didn't I mean to misrepresent my bad howdy do
Hello desk bullshit, how is tfs and do they know of efap?
Uh, I don't think they do
But uh, you know, they're still trucking
Uh, what about orphan blood?
Orphan blood yeah, it's just it's just a general question I guess about the vampires. Oh, yeah, I guess the vampires I would imagine that
I I get like it's blood. Yeah, sure, but it's like the mcdonalds of blood. It's barely even food, you know
It's barely even sustenance
It's kind of how worthless orphans are. Oh, but what if uh, what if what if it's more like a fruit, you know
It's the you know, the fresher they are
The point is that the blood regardless is that it's just barely sustenance at all in any way
Got you. He's bullshit. It's almost you think orphans can't be gay
That's fucked up dude, um
Yes, I want to chat said he means use the villains from courage with efap's rogues gallery faces on them
That's probably that makes more sense. Doctor's aloft and
All that stuff
Uh captain marvel
Triple x unbridled praise when oh, right the the porn parody. I mean
Do I need to praise that you all know to go pursue those things? You don't need help
Hey, I trust you
Morla, you're gay rags took that line from jack packard on it. If it was it's coincidental
Orphans can't be gay that's a fact
So my manager's telling me that orphans cannot be gay
I don't think that he knows what the hell he's talking about. He's the manager. Like is this
So is it orphans is his blind spot? Is that what this is?
I think that he might be an orphan himself or he has a close connection to it
So whenever the subject of orphans pop up, he can't look at it objectively
Uh, we're running a poll for predictions of most inconsistent star wars character episode not on the efap facebook page
Long live the dawn and kick orphans
Well, I hope that goes. Well, I hope you get a bunch of uh responses. You're people are thinking I wonder who their most popular is
I think ours is uh fin, right?
Yes, and a close second is oh
Think
I'm still huck's gang gang gang. Yeah, and then third third is luke and then drawn for
Fourth and fifth is huck's and ray. I think anyway
Yeah, better updated list is on the reddit page. I think they they've got a better
handle on that
Uh youtube super chat restrictions suck period blood. Oh
Like a vampire god
That's like a double joke like they suck period blood
But it's like it's it's important that when you do bring in your super chats to
Efap it's important that no matter what you make sure that you never make any jokes about women period
I get it. Also jay say he's spoken to all orphans and none are gay
I have trouble believing that you've spoken to all orphans
I I imagine you might have spoken to a few but I think that's
You know in terms of sample size kind of underwhelming. I don't know if you can really you know
uh
What's the phrase where you like you blow it up to all the other numbers you extrapolate that you know to the total orphan population
I believe you've spoken
To about ninety nine point eight three percent of orphans
Also, if an orphan was gay would he say oh, yeah strange person i'm gay. Yeah, you wouldn't admit it to you
Jay, let's be fair. Yeah. Why do you think he's gonna be very concerned that you're asking he'd be like, oh
Maybe be a little uh wary
He's thinking in his head like if I say i'm gay to this guy i'm gonna have to reject him if I just say i'm straight
Just done and done. Oh, no, listen, would you tell if you're living in an orphan?
and
Kindra kimler walked up to you and asked if you were gay. Of course, you'd say no. It's true. You would say nine
They said no one would ever describe the size of my sample as underwhelming
I think we just clearly they do though. So
Yeah, I I feel as if I don't know maybe maybe someone was just didn't want to upset you
Um, hey mister, where's trish and gornal?
um
Boom that was for mr. Gigi who i'm assuming that people he knows
Oh, I was only pretending to be a massive
You know what? That's right
I was actually very small
uh
Hey rags raggled hello
I have four to the power seven
I just put two and two together and then added the 12 and carried the five. What does that come out to?
You put two and two together so that's four
Four times seven or four he's got four up arrow seven
That's an x that's an exponent. So four to the seventh power. So four
Times it four seven times
Um, so he took two plus two and he got four, right?
Okay, and what's the next part uh added the 12 and then carried the five
He added the 12 and carried the five
And he said what does that come out to?
Well added 12 and carry the five
I don't know what you mean by carry the five in this scenario
I'm not good at math. I'm not particularly good at math. Um
But you have 16, you know, like all right
I added 12 to four and then I carried the five is like I need I think any more information to
Go through i'm sorry. Oh
Are there any interested the letter six? I hope that's it
Oh the letter six I catch yeah
Any brackets i'm not seeing any brackets. Um
It'll be it'll be one of those
Things for someone in chat to just suddenly figure out like uh, goodwill hunting they'll nail it
I'm a burn doctor and I have high authority on blood in the brain
In fact, the blood coagulates on the way to the brain and turns into jello. Our heads are just big
I know there's blood in the brain. I know there's blood in the brain. I heard it
I heard that's what I heard and so then I double checked it and it was like, oh, okay
There is blood in the brain because I now I I think right. This is something that i'm actually pretty certain of
I think the cornea is the only part of your body that doesn't have blood because it gets its oxygen directly from the air
So, you know, I think that's a I think that's a thing I could be wrong
but um
I think that I think that part's true
Uh, you don't look like a rag
Oh, well sorry to disappoint you I guess oh rags I was hoping you'd get it
In fairness, you haven't seen it in a while. So I wouldn't blame you but um, do you remember a certain character called mac?
You don't look like a mac
Oh, yeah
I can't believe that I said that and then another character said that oh, man
I gotta watch that but I haven't had the chance. Yeah, speaking of which it'll come back. It's it's gonna come back
I'm just gonna work on some stuff and i'm still looking forward to releasing the rest. It'll get there. It's gonna happen
Um, happy here at efap do not bow to the corporate overlords. No, they're assholes and they won't defeat us forever
We'll just keep adding the logo until it lets us go through finally
That's all I need to do
They thought they could get me by delaying the thing by like x amount of hours and days after releasing live
They thought that would defeat me. It won't
Take more than that. I mean my jurassic park world video is still up zephyr didn't continue taking that down. They give up eventually
Corporate overlords only have so much energy
doom
Um, happy birthday you massive old man. May the dawn and fred bless you on this day first super chat here
Oh and high rags
hello
Uh, just in the process of finishing the last one and you start streaming. Holy whack a moly
Yes, that's it. It is the sunday day how it do
Uh in doom the rock mirrors the scum immortal hackers while the protagonists mirror the noble pro gamer
This movie is telling us that pro noble gamers are heroes and not violent. Sorry unsubscribed
Gamers aren't heroes. Absolutely rise up
So, um
This is from the major for one ninety nine dollars. It says
gay
Well, yeah, i'm
You have to go with any one word. He's lucky it got through considering whole demonization thing
Didn't wait enough. Maybe he needs like double gay or triple gay
Yeah, it needs to be like another evil word on top of it because as we know
Gay is an evil word. We gotta according to cancer brain cancer. Yeah
Um potato can potato can in the arsenal. Uh, hey guys air force just gave me a date of january
So a few more months of efap. Thanks for supporting being great. Keep it up. Also. Hi rags
Hello and good luck with all of your adventures and learnings. Mm-hmm
Hey, i'm stuck in a time loop and the only way to break out is to guest on guest one efap
guest on efap 146 how many subs do I need before I get then invited on
2 million
Million that's not very much i'm thinking billion because think about it by then that's like a year from now
How 1.2 billion maybe
Yeah, because I think that honestly most channels will have a million subs by then like
You know brand new channels will just get a million subs pretty easily over the next you upload a video saying hello
You'll get a million
There's been a lot of humans on the planet by then
Yeah, it's gonna you know, it takes a hell of a lot we're thinking billions joseph anison probably wrote that big gay reply
Oh, you're talking about the comment
I don't think joseph anison would do that
Um, but maybe those alt accounts, you know
What are your thoughts of enjoying art from horrific people? Can you still like the music of lost profits?
Is it a case of time since the events?
Um
It's different for everybody right like
Separating the art from the artist
There's a couple of examples of like actors who are kind of assholes in real life
But you watch them in some stuff and you're like, man, that's actually pretty good stuff you're doing there
Yeah, kind of like tom cruz is like a Scientology psycho, but then he gets into a movie. It's like damn, dude
He says something stunts and shit. All right. All right
Yeah, and uh, I seem like mel gibson
I've actually like really like him in a lot of his films, but then like in real life
Here there's like random tapes and quotes and you're like you're a strange man
He's just he's a strange man
Yeah, you know it's honestly it's down to everybody individually and you'd have to like ask me for specific people and what they've done
Whether or not it bothered me. So it's just like yeah
Take them as the guard themselves is also like part of what makes them gross like eww gross
Other artists like unrelated from the stupid bullshit that you don't like them for then, you know, I think you could
Uh, what are your thoughts of oh, sorry. Hi mauler. Hello. Happy birthday. How's your birthday day?
It's just been good. There are lots of different
It's all it's also over this has been for for an hour and 57 minutes some of right, but um, it was very fun
Also, when's the 24 hour stream?
No, we we did it already
Happened already. Please next year. You almost had another one. Oh, yeah, it will be nice. It was an accident
I'm gonna meet you. Happy birthday long man. Thank you. Don. Bless you. Oh by the way
I'm on season three of buffy. I'm addicted. Charles is my favorite character p.s. Don't catch the gay and high rags
Hello
Glad to hear it. I hope you enjoy
Tell me what you think when you get the episode in season five that'll ruin your life. It's gonna be great
Um, don't even take a shit if you don't have to
I agree. Yeah, I don't normally go poo just for recreational purposes. I'd like to have a poop
Do you need it's like good. Oh boy top off this evening wonderfully a nice poop poop is
How men created progress
Good myself a lovely
Um, i'm not supposed to die equals a hacker saying i'm not supposed to get banned metaphorically. Oh
Yeah, I get it the rock was the hacker I see it now
It makes a lot more sense that way
um
Quit pitch quit pixel fucking or you'll catch pixel tisms
um, so that's a reference to a tweet where um
Uh people were arguing
About the fight scene in tlj. I think I was defending it was like quit pixel fucking and searching for things to hate
All right, we didn't have to look it wasn't there
Uh legitimately had a dream where rags kept saying hello. Hello. Hello in the background throughout the entire episode
Oh goodness
App boot. Thank you long mool man bad
That person objectively has the massive gay
I'm assuming that was about the person we read the comment out
And you can't say that they're offended by the use of the word gay. So saying they have the massive gaze is ultimate offense
I can't believe you'd engage because it's not just gay. It's massive gay
Uh mooler I called you gay earlier, but I just found out it's your birthday. Happy birthday. You blessed long man
You're still gay though. Watch out for rah
My rah
Rather big gay
He's the big oh, I don't even know what he is
please watch
Thano mono gatari. It's not a part of efap, but it tell the real story of what happened to thanos
Also, hi rags and kick j. Hello
Um, yeah, jay. What the fuck many people have recommended that before? Um, but yes, maybe on the massive pile of things
We need to watch and consume in general
um
Martin Scorsese called the mcu massive efap guessed him. Yeah
I think I think I mentioned this here rags, but
It's the kind of comment that when you hear it you're like, okay, who cares?
But a lot of people went crazy over it. Um, and I don't blame them because a lot of respect him
So they're upset but the whole um, he said the mcu movies aren't cinema
Oh, yeah, that was that's that's a tism. Yeah, it's just like you you you go man
Well, that was justified and a lot of people like don't you get it
He's saying it to promote his own movie and I was just like i'm sure he believes it to be honest with you
Uh, james cameron's very anti mcu as well
Why though?
Why you guys why you guys got to be haters? Why can't you just let everyone have their opinion? You know what I mean guys?
Uh, when elevator music plays do you guys hear it too?
Uh, no, they don't hear it. No, no, we don't hear it. We're in our own little world
Yep, what makes it even better discussing whether or not cereal soup and whether or not tacos or sandwiches or the
the benefits and the
Positive qualities of a nice nice dashboard salad
Yeah, these are see these are questions that I think are much more fundamental and important to answer while
You know science is fucking around with all these other stupid things. Like we're actually tackling
sort of what
The main things that are going to take us forward in life because of right
That's right in a tackle is just a weird hug exactly
Uh, happy b day. You massively long living bad, man. It's my birthday today, too
May the dawn bless us both and I think you're thinking of the blood brain barrier, which keeps some things out of the brain
maybe
How dare you imply that you can catch the gay that's insensitive but anything to do with the gay is demonetized just fyi
Yes, we found that out. Uh
Yeah, are you are you saying that?
That people are born with the gay
Does that mean that when I refer to the force as the gay in episode nine rage that i'm going to get demonetized?
well
Sometimes you just have to make that sacrifice in order to tell the truth about the gay
Guys think that ray or kylo have a better understanding of the gay
Um
Kyla's pretty gay. Yeah
Dave daisy seems too gay for any man
We'll see but I think yeah, I think he's got like the super gay but she's got the gay super gay
She is the gay from which all other gay flows exactly
I think if you tap right in she's just gonna obliterate everyone
Uh, noah rhymes with gay ray. Oh
Rags check out destiny 2 shadow keep
All right, yeah, i've heard destiny 2 has shaped up a whole lot since launch so I am kind of
I'm curious about it. I will admit
And the next bit says cld be a vid. Oh, could there be a vid? There you go
Cobbled there be a vold
They're called bold. They're cool. They're cool. I don't know
Um, what about dan schneider try that?
Oh like for the bandwidths, I guess
oh
I tried to post a witty super chat about religion because gabriel, but youtube censored it before I even posted it
The thought police are on to me. I suppose
Are they still doing the thing where if you
Are they still doing the thing where if you send a super chat that's offensive they give it to like a charity or whatever?
Remember that
I remember that being like in a really short amount of time
Yeah, I guess they got rid of it because like when they're legal issues with that
It was like you can't take people's buddy and send it to other people. That's fucked up
Another choice in youtube's history. That's just embarrassing
Another amazing decision made by there will be more
Minnesota is on the list, but orphan isn't
damn
And that's how you know, it's biased like if any word should be demonetized this
Can we go? Can we agree on that youtube heroes?
Oh my god, yeah, I remember that but they edited their video while it was still live
Like yeah, they have the ability and they've allowed other channels to do this every once in a while as well
But yeah youtube if they want to they will allow you to
Edit your video and change it but still keep it live and still keep the same comments and everything
But of course, as you know, they also have the ability to add likes and take away dislikes and things of that nature
Yep, they've got they've got quite a little history if you like add it all together all the stupid things they've done
More like here today october 6th is your birthday if that's the case you share a birthday with my favorite brother. Wow
Wow, that's neat. Wonderful. Well, that's good for him, but your other brothers are probably feeling kind of shitty
Yeah, don't tell them about that
Um, I reckon unless you tell them all privately that you're their favorite
Yeah, and then you have to make sure they sign an nda about an nda specific thing
Oh, this is the world. Don't listen. I want to tell you something. You gotta sign this waiver
You are what is considered an other brother, okay, I mean there's a favorite you're not it
Poop all is gay. You have j. Yoda also high rags
Hello
Want to make of that? Um, that is kind of gay
Got a bit shoot and avoid youtube as much as you can best advice
I could give to someone starting out new with uploading content. 1984 is real in the land of youtube
I mean, it's not a lost cause just yet
Like but it definitely seems to be going that way. Unfortunately youtube's getting weird like those days go by
And um, it does seem to be heading in one specific direction
But there's no time that everybody can't immediately jump over to bit shoot and if that ever happened like loads of big creators
I feel like big changes could happen
But who knows if bit shoot would be able to survive that kind of traffic, you know
There's a thing a lot of people say this about youtube
That's a good kind of problem to have
Oh, yeah
but like a lot of people say about youtube that it's not it doesn't like make the money back that it costs to run but it's
It's like extremely important to have in terms of like ownership because it's like a powerful tool
Rather than um a money making tool and obviously if google own it, they make plenty of money or go
Yeah, they make they have all the money and they have all the money and more
Happy butt day mauler
Happy birthday long man now take this money stop being selfish and buy yourself something frivolous like the kicking of jay. Oh
I shall I would like to redeem this ticket for one jay kicking. They're like you can get two for that price
You're like, oh my goodness. Yes
Very lovely. Hey guys still working on the project from last week. Just need to know what fringy's rpg class would be
Uh, he was an oh, yeah necromancer he seems yeah, he seems like a necromancery type
Alchemist type because a lot of his fan art has him with like little potions and stuff
Yeah, like in terms of a battle class is an alchemist really a thing. I don't know
I I kind of don't think it is. I think alchemist is maybe like a profession but not like a battle class
so I would think like
Maybe a cleric or a necromancer or some shit
Maybe not a cleric. That's nah, that's not at all
It's gotta be necromancer
Uh, also the gbp guys ones as well. Well, I would recommend asking them
I don't know what cynic snacks cj and voxis would want from
RPG classes, but i'm sure they'd like to pick I can't remember what we said that me and rags were anymore remember
Um, well I said I was barred oh, yeah, what did I say? I was i'm a bard. Yeah, I remember that
But I can't remember what I said
Okay, so alchemist is in pathfinder so, you know
Um, mr gg sjw's want to work with you
Fair enough
Uh maula, did you see that chris tuckman rated joker the same as tlj?
He gave it a lower high score because similarities to taxi driver
Why are you watching chris tuckman?
What yeah, why first off why are you watching chris tuckman his input is basically worthless too
It's it it was it was kind of it was like taxi driver. So i'm going to give it negative
Points, don't you get it? It makes sense. He's obsessed with being the critic
Taxi driver is considered one of the classics
So the fact that he's like I can see taxi driver this that means it copied that means it's bad. It's like chris
Chris no one gives a shit if it's kind of like taxi driver. No one fucking cares
But yeah, um that also ended with also high racks hello, um, what makes good super rat
We're on the super rats now, I was gonna say we really nailed what makes good rat yet
We didn't get normal rat yet
um
A great rat comes in many sizes, but a super rat like a mega big sized rat
I don't know man. Um
Gender fluid. I think that's a fair answer for now. It'll be developed
1.7
Million
What were we talking about that had one point so oh it was the petition the signing of the petition I remember
I remember hey guys, this is my first super chat ever tell jeremy from geeks and gamers to look in his dms on twitter
It's a message for wolf. Thank you very much long man and rags and your guests
um, I'm pretty sure his dms are open and
As long as you send a message to him. He should be aware of it. Um, do they know each other personally?
wolf and
This guy or wolf and jeremy. Yeah wolf and jeremy have talked to each other. I think
Wolf and jeremy
Hey rags
Hello, what is your favorite loyalists and traitor chapters?
guys, I don't know enough about the chapters and the
Groups to really give answers to these questions. I I only have kind of a casual understanding of the lore
I don't I don't I don't know a lot of the
Faction names are the individual characters. So you'll have to you'll have to forgive my um
My lack of lore understand now if you want to talk about the lupa lore
Yeah, megg go for it. We didn't talk about the lupa lore all day, but uh war hammer
Not really my forte. I I play a little here and there like vermintide and stuff, but i'm not
You know, I know the basics, you know the sigmar good, you know
I feel I feel bad from because
This is clearly some really passionate 40k fans and our fan base and they just want one of us
To at some point just say stuff about it
Someone's saying do you like building forts or digging trenches? I
Oh, man. Well, I I will defer to my
I will defer to minecraft. I I kind of prefer building forts
I kind of prefer building forts
to building trenches
I like a good tunnel network, but at the same time i'm i'm i'm big on, you know above ground fortifications
So if that answers your questions, maybe then all right
I think it works with minecraft as well
But the torarra where you like you build your fort and then you start digging your uh, your fortress almost moves underground and spreads
And pop up wherever it wants
You take over the back if you watched at the imperative text speech device. I have um,
Bravo alphabusa the guy who makes that yeah, he's some of his shit's great
Some of his stuff is fantastic, but I have seen some of it
But I haven't played many warhammer games. I've played space marine, which is amazing. I've played
Vermintide one vermintide two both of those i've liked quite a bit. I played space hulk deathwing
So i've played a bit here and there but
I'm not too into the lure
I like it though. I really really like the universe though
I played warhammer 40k space marine at the time
I think that was in uh, 20
2011 2012 it was all it's an oldie but goldie. Yeah, the multiplayer was pretty fun
It ended with hail the minotaurs and death guard
The tors are hot
Uh ra said joker a
Joker a
Yeah, I guess you're gonna watch that joker a every frame of poop sock
Oh
Rise up my gamers jokers was our black panther except it was actually a good film
Joker was our black man. Black panther was so bad. Uh, he said pure kino
Embloth hap is mole mum
That is welsh. Thank you very much
It's happy birthday in the welsh tism flugin on the flim flam my good florigan orc
Yeah, that's pretty good. Well, when did you learn that?
I learned it while I was um, I think i've just absorbed it through proximity to you
He said no you did it's jokera
jokera
jokera
Yeah, ah yokiera taco bell. Um, I want to waterboard dnd with my own urine. Okay. Oh my goodness
No, that was salad king that wasn't even raw. Oh wow
Oh my oh my goodness. Oh my god
Um the pointlessness of war. Oh, right
It was really pointless of people to fight the nazi's imperial japan and other arguably evil people. No, that's pointless
Stop it
Stop it. Just let things be nice. It's like that is demonstrably, you know, they wouldn't even be war if people would be nice
You know what I mean? You know
If the thing wasn't there if the thing wasn't real it wouldn't exist
That's your opinion. It is. It's not bad just because it's bad
idiot
I feel like you've not been paying attention to a little
Uh, fuck society fuck boomers. Fuck bugmen gamers rise up
I agree. Fuck bugmen, uh gamers rise up. Yeah, i'm not a fan of bugmen too gamers rise up
Um, I want to shoot my ranch all over their wives. Oh my goodness
Oh salad king again
Happy birthday mola. We love you 1.2 billion. I like it because it's like a reference to the 3000 thing
Uh, hi rags
Hello
Uh, also do you main zero suit samus or armored samus? I don't like zero suit samus at all
I was really annoyed that I had to keep tuning into her in brawl
But then they separated them out in the newer ones. So I was like yay
armored forever
Oh, you're not referring to um
A metroid game you're referring to smash brothers. Yes
Yeah. Oh, they asked me earlier what my favorite sports games brother
What two peoples was kick jay don't worry pre-kicked kick this episode comes pre-kicked
Uh, I just finished watching joker. It was amazing. Also. Hi rags
Hello
Imagine a welsh fam on a couch collectively hmming. Yeah, that's what it was. They're all hmming
like
They're killing the children bit. Hmm
Halloween is my name also happy birthday again
Oh, I get it. His name is too spooky for me. Halloween is too spooky for me
Ah
You gotta you gotta take the spooks as much as you can it's important to take the spooks
Something not talked about much is those uploading gym and music getting striked and deleted regardless of context because of hate speech
Including love and anti-war songs from before world war ii those affected like dr
Ludwig and carl stir now are taking legal action
But are being ignored
It's awful to see people targeted for the language their content is in have not seen any action taken for ie russia or chinese music thoughts
Um, I had no idea this was happening
Yeah, I wasn't aware. This was a thing like particularly with like german music
Although it I can't say it surprised me too much because the thing of it is like, you know, the whole hate speech thing
uh hate speech laws are in
like, you know uk and eu and everything like that and so
Uh, it's not too surprising that it's happening, but it still sucks
Is it specifically to do with lyrics they using or is it just the fact that because I feel like we would have heard about this
By now if it was just the german language
Because that it pissed off a lot of people, um, yeah, yeah sounds bad whatever's going on there
Is it like
possibly pro war
German songs from pre world war ii that could explain it that could be
Yeah, he had mentioned that it was like, you know
Love and stuff and like anti-war and they were still getting flagged down
That's what he had said
Uh, I was upset about rob's death, but it's subjective rob got so much attention in seasons two and three
And I didn't like that. He dies before doing anything. Even ned did send a letter before he died
Oh rob got to fight a couple of wars and win. There's those things he did here and there accomplishments
Off the cast dark head that was fun
friends family and my cousin watched joker thrice in three days with me
I don't want to spoil anything since this is the gamer movie, but there was so much kino in it
Shares a lot of themes with phoenixes. You would never really hear too
Bro, what's going on? Dude, you're like doing normal super chats and someone else is taking over the crazy ones
Did we say it's like you're falling behind bro
Got a salad king making up for the craziness, uh gray whim my queen we did it
We defeated circe and took the iron throne denirus who the iron what now?
children wailing in the background
Pretty much
Have you guys ever watched hbo's rome? If not, I highly recommend it
Think of it as a two season therapy treatment vacation from game of thrones season aids
Um season aids
I uh, I watched an episode of it when it first came out
I don't know why it didn't continue, but I have heard a lot of good things about it
I haven't really watched it. What about you guys?
Uh, no, I haven't seen it. Yeah rome
Haven't you never said crumbly there's no place like rome
Yeah, I don't uh, I don't watch tv. You don't watch media. I know I get it
But
But but I did see jurassic park you looking forward to jurassic world 3 where they take over earth
No, not really oh
Well, I can't that can't be true though. I mean
They can't actually do that, right
Oh and trevor said what you said what you said was like a like a little ha ha it's not real
It's called trevor
Doesn't write things that are possible or realistic or follow any set of rules. That's not something he likes to do
They're not possible, but they happen
Maybe it could be a jurassic park x where it's like, you know
It's like jason x where it's he's killing the star trek crew and it's terrible
you know
Oh episode nine
Just when it's gonna be the good year of movies when we're gonna be like, oh this one was the good one
Um in an irish accent, it's not about the journey. It's about the potato famine top of the mornin name brother her t-t-t-t-t-t-t
Hearted hearted hearted heart
Davos trying to make things a little bit more positive
doctors
erectile dysfunction efap audience wang doodles
metal streamies flumple dingus
I understand all of that, but most people won't
There's a lot of different words all at once, but I appreciate it
And then milk not even a specific milk just milk
some og milk there
Game of thrones are the only show that left me not just angry as fuck but also completely empty inside
Yeah, you can definitely do that, uh, if you're super invested in all those people
Happy stream boys. Love me some efap before fap before sleep. No
wonderful
Um, happy borth night long man. May the dawn bless you. Thank you very much
Joker's score was done by chernobyl's composer and deserves every award last year's oscar was wasted on black panthers
Doop doop bingo bongo hoop hoop garbage
This year should go to hilda
Based femoid that was raw. What's what's going on?
Some good super chess. They're funny based femoid
Yeah, she's the one who composed it. So
She's a based femoid. What did you call it? Oop. Oop gooba goop, right?
Oop goop goop
Uh rags this season we have two anime about fairies kimono miche and
Beast stars check them you massive and you mauler check the manga of pokemon
I'll get around to it. Eventually. I'll watch more of them. I swear i'll do it
We all have homework. We'll we'll do
Have some shackles and get yourselves a nice october fest brew
Oh, yeah
And I got a gym and coming over my place in october. That means october fest comes to me. How about that?
Hmm one final thing about my project rags a gun wielding bard is just a pirate
No, i'm pretty sure we've established that it's a looter shooter
Oh like a loot
Well, if it's a pirate I think it's booty shooty
Like a like a like a like the instrument a loot a loot shooter
Yeah, yeah, like a like a loot. Yeah, I like that. I'm gonna give that seven thumbs up
I think that that's fair enough
I I'm pretty sure you would seem something like that in ruby or something. That's a keeper right there
Thanks efap for existing. Love you all. Oh
You're thanked for existing this doesn't bad. Yeah, we did it. It's the nicest thing anyone's ever said to me why thank you
Hodor
in a seth rogan voice
That's what he would be like
I'm dying laughing here. That video lasted what 10 seconds before the words toxic fandom filled the screen
Phenomenal the biggest of brains. Happy birthday oldman. Bye. Thank you. And yeah, it's uh, it's funny seeing it
You know after all the stupid toxic brood memes as well because you're just like stop with the
Toxic's another word they need to stop using they've ruined it as well. They've ruined so many words
Stop using them. Don't mean anything anymore
Uh restaurant changes recipes and now everything is way too salty customers don't like it this guy. Wow
Why are you being so toxic? You think you can cook better?
It's like maybe
Hey, why do they always find it so ridiculous that someone could maybe write it better
Like I don't know there's a lot of people out there it works
Statistically somebody probably can it's a lot of talent small child here write this
He's like, uh deneris doesn't kill the children. It's like oh my god, it's genius. Wow, it's better. This kid knows what he's doing
Uh, hi efappers. I would like to know how much you were invested in world history. Not only your country
Especially rags because americans kind of have that stigma to not care about anyone else's story
Well rip rags
All right
jeez
Yeah, I I like world history history is often fascinating and because it's just real
Real life visions of interesting stories that you feel like oh my god that actually happened. Um
Yeah, uh learned a lot of it in school
We had a shit ton of german history
And then bit some bobs
Of english and welsh history and then some american too because of the world war number two, which was
lots of fun to learn about
Because uh, it's always interesting to see how everybody did all the different things they did
And yeah, there's lots of events in history that are just fascinating to learn about and i'm sure that
Rags feels that way too despite being a dirty american
Uh
I I I know that other things happen. Do you though? I know I know I know other things happen
Uh
I'm gonna say it. I hate rebel wilson. She can't act
Rebel wilson rebel wilson rebel wilson. She's um
Been in
It's perfect the hustle. Isn't it romantic bridesmaids how to be single? I don't think i've seen any of them
Huh
Yeah, I don't know maybe she sucks
I want to screw you rebel wilson. Oh god, she's gonna be in cats. That's probably where this comes from. Okay. Ah
Avoiding that one. Have fun
The cats trailer need me the cats trailer nearly made me not want a cat girl. It was so horrible
I don't know why you worry about whether or not cat girls are real. I mean, they're still not going to go out with you
I mean, it's not you just you just didn't want them after that trailer. That's all
Game of thrones isn't even my cup of tea
But hearing all this info about how bad season eight was just makes me feel upset with the fans
Yeah, much a lot of people are getting like secondhand disappointment because
They may have experienced it with some other franchises and so it's like oh
Your your your number, you know, whatever died too
Who else we got? Yeah, I mean still on life support
That was the same for me because I had only I only made it through like uh two seasons and it didn't really like grab me
So, uh, but then like season eight comes around and everybody who you know, would love the show all at once
Like what the fuck I was really curious all of a sudden
Hi again additionally, I want to know what you guys know about prussia and german history before the illegal austrian took power
Uh, probably not much at all. I don't know. Yeah, I don't know much about it
Another german question. Where did we wind up with german questions?
um
Is that
Well someone we cover something german the guy mentioned toxic most people think german. So yeah makes sense toxic
That is toxic that is french the still counts world war ii the french were involved is fine
It seems to have swapped into a different nationality
Rescovy wigs
Why is it everyone every time fans don't accept poor writing we get called toxic screw those people who do that and they're ad hominins
also hierics
ad hominoms, hello
ad hominoms
Know who else criticized hitler?
Oh
I think equating season eight tlj cats and sonic is on point
They're all disasters basically
But of different calibers and that's why it's interesting to study them
undeniably
Indubitably facebook events storm sonic. He can't outrun all of us
storm sonic
What woman wouldn't want to doom all of their friends while kissing their crush
What is that referencing? Oh rose
Ah, oh, yeah, that's right. Are they crut? That's weird that you have a crush for fin
What do you I just I just like to ask her like what do you?
What what do you see in him? What was it the tide? I guess his heroic act. She was like, you're such a hero
You reckon they're gonna develop that whatsoever the next day
Um
The answer is no they could they could easily just leave her, you know
He's gonna be a commander of the engineer team faction and starship aurora or some shit
She'll get her own ball. I'm just making that up. I have no idea. It's gonna be a name because you know nowadays
I always got to double check because it'll be some stupid shit. That's true
Like you just said a bunch of stupid shit. Sounds like it's true. I got to confirm that the stupid shit is just made up
Uh, happy birthday mauler and high rags
hello
What do you get when you cross an objective welsh longman with an online community of bugmen that shit out their feelings to defend media?
That's trash
You get the nine hour ass grabbing and you fucking you get the nine hour ass grab and you fucking deserve
Oh ass scraping
That's a ras way of saying raping gonna grape you in the mouth
Ah
Um, has talking poo about the fans ever actually worked has a media improved when less people consumed it
It's as if they against the idea of someone being invested in something
How dare you express your frustration has has media ever improved by less people watching it?
generally things don't get better and as a result less people watch them a lot of the times things might be
niche or
Really beloved in or they have like a cult following and then they try to make it mainstream
And in doing so more people watch it, but it loses whatever it was it loses its charm and what made it good and
So that's it's generally the pathway that it takes
Jason's doctor who has now I saw a poster earlier is david tennant coming back as the doctor again
No, that was apparently the cover for a comic
Uh, jay's jay clarified underneath the tweet you should read all of his tweets god
I don't expect twitter very much
my sonic bookmark
Uh, the game of thrones video guy's face looks like 90s cgi
Total bloke national treasure
um
Happy long manday. Why? Thank you
If this guy told me to reframe my expectations to critically analyze media I tell him to shut up because he looks like a jew
That's raw damn
Oh, man, that's raw. Yeah raw. That's raw. That's raw. It's not on us. I disavow
Oh absolutely
diss the vow
You know, I mean he's valuing. Well, we're gonna diss the bow
Just that though
Sorry, i'm behind but when jamie said it's about the journey the end of a journey. It's still part of it
Yeah, that's that's what um
That's what ima says in endgame that part of the journey is the end
Like it's it's the counter to people saying it's not about the end. It's about the journey
It's like well the end is a part of the journey, bitch
We're circling back
Um, how come all of these gay soy boys look the same?
Oh, there's there's subtle differences
I'd like to see that guy and dale have a conversation about dlj. Wouldn't you?
Listen to them back and forth about all the interesting elements of the script. That'd be great
Uh, why do men always give together?
Why do men always give their jackets to women when they're cold who wants a bj from a woman who is chattering her teeth?
Oh my goodness
Then it just says happy birthday knit and then it cuts out
Yeah, we have classy super chats today happy birthday long man, I hope it's a massive one also high rags
Hello
Everyone responds to stories in their own way and some of them are fucking retarded
And deserve to be bullied for it. Oh my
Oh jesus
Oh, that might come tough in the long run
Um, i'm gonna be a nerd and i'm gonna shove you in a locker. Oh
I get it. Happy birthday mola. Here's some money for some rhino milk. Oh, and there's a little birthday cake in there, too
Why thank you
Has the efap crew seen jib
The as the efap crew seen jupiter ascending by the wachowski brothers
It's wildly ridiculed in the bros have transitioned to women since how bizarre
Um, I could throw that on for a potential efap movies. I have heard it's a very silly movie
Okay, the least i've heard that too. I've heard it's super retarded
Good
Like they're constantly trying to make the matrix again in terms of popularity and now they're just going to remake the matrix pox of things
That's gonna go well about like some
I don't know like a mary sue being royalty immediately and the bees lover or some shit. I don't know the bees lover. Okay
Dear we questioned such things
I cannot question the bees
Um
I'm kind of just over it. That's a gedel blind if I ever heard one
I don't think gedel man would ever say that he'd never be over it. He's a constant worker
You work it spends the entire year working on each gedel video. That's how important they are
He knows that they change the world
Too dense. He does realize the lord the rings are a thing right long man bad also girthy man toxic
I hate these pacifists so damn much for the last time war is good when it isn't fought for zionist interests
geez raw
well guessed
Which member of the breakfast club would win in a crazy hunger games ask battle royale?
The question is why my dad didn't call me on my birthday
What
Oh, this question is why my dad didn't call me on my birthday. Are you saying that you would ask the dad this question?
And he would decide that he would disown you um
Win in a hunger game style. I don't know man. I think you could make a reason for each of them to a degree
Which of them had any weapons to get that's how you know, which ones are ready to kill. That's how it works
Um, I'd have to think about it and watch breakfast club again rags, give me the old butt mustard
Ice brown mustard
Hmm
Stick that ball right up there and squeeze. I don't know what to make of this but mustard
Yeah, I don't I I don't know the mustard threw me off
The but yeah, i'm a little confused about the mustard and I dare not do anything
I know like like you probably you probably thought like you heard mayo and then you're like, wait a minute
Yeah, like wait
I like I have some serious problems if that's the case. I like botb for completely superficial reasons
It's botb oh no
On on the billboard
Back on the boner
Born on the billboard best. Oh billboard baguins. Oh void
the
Bill billy battle of the vans battle of oh battle the bastards
That's pretty good bastards. Yeah
Fisher reasons. Yeah, that's fair enough. Ridley scott was talented too until he wasn't
You know what? That's a good comics is relevant. Yeah, that's kind of yeah, but also relevant to the terrible destiny dialogue
Until it was oh, yeah, but this one great person this one person did something great before this so
So the thing he did now can't be bad, right? That's how that works, right?
A critic from time magazine gave joker a 20 on metacritic. This is the same critic who gave ghostbusters 2016 and 80
No other response needed
so a critic gave
Joker 20 out of 100 and this same person gave ghostbusters 2016 and 80
Wow
Why do why do these people how do these people have jobs?
I don't know actually honestly
It might just be that they're robots that were planted because I just don't believe that they're people most of the time
I'm starting to think they're really garbage tastes actually got them the job
Because jesus christ, this is too frequent
David Benioff wrote that shite will smith movie coming out this year. Gemini man. Oh really?
I've seen trailers for that. Yeah
I can't wait to not see that. Yeah, I don't I don't care the trailer
Not interesting. Will smith is trying to kill will smith. It's like, okay
It's okay
He went all in with the genie and didn't quite lose it also
So
Uh maula you are my entry to the fandom menace and for that I am objectively eternally grateful
Remember alt media will become the mainstream media
Well, then then then you're in trouble though
You got to jump out and be like we got to be continuing the alt media who wants to be mainstream. They're the big game
alt media
How long will the next gedel be well
That's really this is the thing I said this before but like when you get to
Redrafting there will be lines that are cut because they're not
Work if I can't remember what the reference is
I'm not too confident in leaving them in because then i'm like if I can't even fucking remember that then
We're not going to work for a large amount of people
because i've lived the tonaled quotes and the um
I shouldn't be so harsh. It's not even it's not even near just tonaled. We've gotten so many great quotes this year around
I don't know how i'm gonna actually write that script. It's gonna be tough
Hmm a comment from recent patrick williams video. Did you escape from a mental hospital meant for gay people?
Oh
Wow
Mental gay people they got to be separated you see
Or else they'll do the gay deed
I
Mean, uh, yeah, the newest video is patrick williams and just right collaborated. I believe
um
Have you have you seen that rags?
I haven't seen it now. What is wrong with you patrick williams just right? How could you?
What could you be doing that could trump that?
Well things that it's
Uh, hi raggy boy
Hello
Good morning. Efap crew. Hi rags
Hey, hey, are you guys ever gonna do another efap gaming and if so, what games are you going to play?
Oh, we might actually in rags have been discussing a potential one. It might happen
Yeah, I shan't say anymore, but we've actually we had an idea
The answer is yes, just not sure exactly well down I am I am super down he is down to clown
That is rags down to clown all around town
Uh, you pronounce sika yet wrong. It's
Lij
Liat the yacht
liat
T is soft like the word. Oh, just I just need to find a russian that can tell me how to do it properly
Also russians don't squat
blin
Oh, I don't speak russian. I don't know the russians. I I just make it up as I go along, you know
God damn it
Uh mala jay's in the chat, please take care of it
We pre-kicked him what else can I do?
double pre-kick him and post-kick him and
Present kick him. What are you i'm not that powerful
Jay is the manager. He's immune to being perma kicked
Oh, he's not immune to being kicked. That's not true at all actually
well
I mean we always keep kicking him
We never seem to stop so he can't be permanently kicked
Because we keep letting him on it would be a perma kick if we didn't let him on again
He's still in the chat
So you're saying we block him ban him from chat. Oh my god
What if he gets another account?
They won't ban that one, so it's not permanent
Oh
No, they told you
Only ever and this is this is why the law of the isle of man is arriving
It's a representation of us attempting to kick him
We just keep going and going and going it's never a permanent
Finished kick going but the end is just part of the beginning in the middle
It's just part of the journey. It's all middle rags all of it
All the middle even before we even have the beginning it's the middle
Yeah, some people call that a plot hole. I call it life. Some people call it. Some people say prologue. I say first middle
I say prolapse. Oh, that's I say pro
uh
pain
There you go
Went to disney willed this last week was going to clear my backlog in flight now. I'm four efaps behind
Maybe i'll see this super chat in november hashtag long man bad
I'm, so sorry one bad hashtag
long man bad
Uh, you used my comment for gedelb
I
I hope I did. Oh, yeah
Yay audience interactions
Expectations were a mistake
Well, yeah, pretty much
We should all just be watching everything without assuming anything or knowing anything remember sequels are down to interpretation folks
It's only a sequel if you interpret it as a sequel and to be honest interpretation is kind of racist
Would you guys agree? I think so. I would definitely agree
I would definitely agree your own racist subconscious bias will inevitably seep into all of your your your thoughts about the sequel
Uh
Hello all my jamaicans. Oh, that's very nice. Hello. Hello all my j words
Hello, the character may have been minor, but the plot was not you fucking millennial
Last super chat. Holy
Hi rogs
Hello happy birthday my welsh love oh my
Thank you. I don't know you had to love. I didn't know either, but these things you just never see them coming. That's how it works
Um, no, no, no, you don't get it. You hate it because it's meant to be that way. That's the point
Okay, congrats. You succeeded. I hate it
Yeah, pretty much. Good job. It's terrible. You did a great job at being terrible
You can't hate it for being that way the way that it is raw bruh
That's literally the same argument people throw at me for hating sodomites as if I care
Well, that's a there's a classic raw again
Uh, hello efap. I love your streams. I listen to them while i'm at work editing triple x videos
So adult videos, let's just say that I made a video for you called efap halloween story darkness faps
Please accept my meme offering also. Hi rags
Oh, sorry, I mean what what
It was just someone said hi rags it's all good. Oh, hello. Hi there. Um
Yes, that is actually true. I've actually seen this video the darkness fall faps thing
um
Darkness fall faps. So the thing is that video, um, I would play it
But the song got claimed on the last efap, which just
risks restrictions of all kinds especially when live because
You never know with this stuff. Uh, so what i'll do instead is pop it in the description
Uh, i'm just sort of saying things slowly
So this is a good one by the way, this is a really good one. I really like this one
Yeah, it's um, it's basically an edited version of me going through the
darkness falls
plot well the lore of it
And uh some nice little editing touches and some amusing elements to it. So like I said, um, we would watch it
Song was on the last efap. So apparently even though we're talking over it doesn't count. So what i'm gonna do
Right now pop the video into the description
um
And call it. Well, i'll just say this is the video I was talking about
Can't mistake it
and once that updates
Should be able to grab that and just check it out because it's uh, it's pretty fun. I liked it a lot
Thank you very much for making it. It's cool. Shit
I had myself a giggle and other people now giggle as well
Um break their legs raw. Oh, no, they're encouraging him
opinion on tools new album
Hey, I don't listen to tool i'm afraid
Neither me
Rags do you listen to tool?
Do I listen to tool?
That was the question
What am I supposed to do about this?
Rags, please come back to me. Oh my god. I'm sorry
I was thinking about something else for just a moment
And it gave me a little bit of a giggle, but I do not listen to tool to answer your question. Hmm. I think
reductio add
tlj
I mean
Someone should probably make some kind of fallacy out of tlj at this point. Just like
I did got you but I added an e on the end of it
So
I hate people who make this argument about letting the text establish things to defend new stuff. That's contradictory
So similar to that weasel that was crying about mauler on twitter the other day
Oh are you talking about fat man falling? We covered him too
Happy b-day long man started buffy binge with wife after hearing your rage about it so much never watched before
Will you hate watch the reboot or avoid it? Oh, i'd watch it
I talked to wolf about this wolf was like I would avoid it and I was like, oh i'm watching it
They ever do that i'm gonna
They they hurt that tv show i'ma fuck them up
Stay away allowed
um
This is the kind of illogic you get with in a world with a very concept of categories has been systematically dismantled by devil
Worshiping kid-graping hippie-yid professors for generations
I
Mean whenever you hear the word great thing, I think you know exactly who the super chat's from don't you?
Remarkable republican versus major lee
Imagine
I haven't actually um, I don't recall who the remarkable republican was and like what he had did
Oh, that's efap
48 i want to say he was either 48 or 90 but uh
Oh, man, there's some highlights from that one. He was uh
Good coverage
Um joker was fantastic. But did you guys find it weird?
Uh
Is that a spoiler this is the thing I was reading it it's it's a joke
Like it's not what actually happens, but he says enough
I'd probably I I want to say nothing for rags at all. Basically no expectations
How about what we'll do is you say it i'll take my earphones off and then about 30 seconds
I will return the earphones to my ears. Okay, you ready?
All right. So on on three I will oh shit. I already taken them off. I can't even hear anything you're saying because they're off
Oh god, ah 30 seconds
But did you guys find it weird that arthur pulled out his notebook on the murray franklin show and started reading off fpi crime statistics?
Yeah, that's a spoiler i'm not gonna yeah, I think getting onto the show is something I don't want him to know
Yeah
People saw john's true parentage even though that's kind of in the trailer. I don't think he saw the trailers
Um people saw john's true parentage coming from a mile away and yet people were still generally satisfied when it happened
How does this guy explain that?
Um, he doesn't he ignores like any good video essayist you ignore all of the information that could possibly get in the way of your narrative
Because fuck otherwise you do support near nazism. Yes
Um rags back here or is he fizzling me?
It's a question for him, but i'm gonna save it. Uh, when's the next gmod idiot box?
Oh
I have no idea man. It's just
So going
Mola do that intro for ray in your series. She's more forced than human. They sold you for money children are not their fathers
Oh, I like that. Oh the uh
The thing I did in the episode five, right?
right
People were saying the the line the children are not their fathers was fucking
Again, really funny in that the game throws video because I just keep throwing it in just hearing saying children are not their fathers
It's like shut the fuck up
Also, hi rags. Anyway. Yeah
That was kind of spoilery. So we're just gonna not tell you well i'm i'm glad that it was absolutely
Uh rags, what is your everyday carry? I carry a ruger lcp.3 80
It cites a shit, but it doesn't print at all
also, hi rags
Hello, um either a block 26 or a block 17
Um, i'm not being cheated on my romantic relationship is subverted
Huh?
This is the thing just focus subversion in every single thing you ever do
No matter what and you're living a better life. At least I think that's what i'm gathering from these videos
Uh, why has a logical payoff for a clear story set of become the enemy to so many mainstream writers and this
Sick of fan. This is the thing
Uh as much as they prattle on about how much a logical like through light is terrible
It's like what was the last time we had one? Did anyone want to just give it a shot?
You identify it if you saw it
Like well, it's better to always subverse like I don't know man had a lot of it
We've had a lot of that. How about we try a different thing? How about that? What if what if it wasn't shit?
Hitler was just subverting human rights. That's that's a radical thing to say jay means it's good
Um, how did this happen? I don't know how it happened people responded well to it too much. It ruined everything
Blame it all on jay
He hasn't seen enough and therefore everything subverting him doesn't even make sense and he just approves of it
That's that's the answer to the riddle
um
When the writers never be wrong about the characters, that's exactly what these
Omos are all about unironically. Yes, they force stories
To get made that make no sense. They defended they defend gender transition
They ignore crime stats all under the threat of korea suicide
Then turn around and say it makes sense because it's canon or law or settled science by consensus
Stephen Moffat revealed their hand when he said the thing about how he didn't care what was real
And how by willing things onto the screen, they would will them into existence. These subversions need to be yeeted
I don't know where I watch dr. Who
There you go. Jay watch, uh, dr. Who
Close eye on all popular media media to uh media prevent the inclusion of any
any homos
Any any homos and zionists has to keep them out of them. You know, it's doing god's work
Um, I wonder if this guy thinks fma brotherhood's ending is boring and predictable even though it's the one of the best endings in tv
It was pretty good wonder what do you think about the fact that there was two visions
That yeah, like I don't know
well the um
well it the
He's referring to the you know, full metal alchemist and then brotherhood
The first full metal alchemist had the same problem as game of thrones where they ran out of book
And so the ending was bad. They fucked it up before they ran out of book with the game of thrones though
exactly, uh, so
With brotherhood the book was done. I say book but you know main guy whatever and then uh
It was done. So yeah, funny thing is though brotherhood's uh start uh sucked fight me. Anyway
Wow
So screwed up man, you just throw that out of there, but okay
Yeah
by his own words
Akira toriyama famously forgotten entire character in launch and forgot science have tales of course writers can mess up
Again, we don't have to go that far. We just have to stretch our way over to him sig
Daddy kind of forgot about it. It's like there you go. He fucked up
done
Proven do you think you know your the character is better than the writers? Like absolutely if I wrote a series of books
Um and the like even a hundred people
Said they loved it
I'd probably be convinced there's a good chance. They now know the details better than me potentially
because
Just the way that you end up writing stuff
You're gonna fucking do different projects move on do different things
Well, some people can like be utterly consumed by a piece of media
There's people out there who like live and breathe game of thrones
And you got these people being like iron fleet's pretty forgettable. It's only like knocked down like several families
Folds the seas who cares?
Um
I have to go to work now. See you when I get back pretty well do tell what are the limits of power of tism?
What do you mean limits
There are no limits to tism tism is infinite as the universe. There is no limit
To tism. Sorry. Yeah, I didn't understand the question. That's kind of my answer
Once you think that you've tismed as far as you could tism
Then your expectations will be subverted
If you want to see how far they're willing to go with this anti-logic mass delusion
Watch that vid of the black gill in the uni science class arguing
About how voodoo magic should be taken seriously
Start howling when someone challenges them because silence science and reason are an ironically western oppression
you're talking about that girl who shouts at
like the
Guy because he didn't remember that wasn't it like to do with halloween outfits or something unless you talk about something
This is the one that took place in like south africa
About no the concept of western science isn't the only one and
We need to decolonize your mind and stuff like that
Voodoo magic is for reals
Rags sing send in the clowns by frank sinatra. I don't know this one me neither guys. Don't send
Don't allow one
No, I I don't don't ring any bells. Okay. No not ringing any bells
Um, what's up if I knew it i'd make a brand new start of it, but I just don't know this one
What's up massives I was at new york comic-con today
So i'm a bit late which means I didn't miss much of efap also happy birthday long man mauler. Why thank you
um
If people like this guy want people like me to stop being mean they should stop being so fucking gay and cringe my goodness
That's raw raw, come on
mauler and gang thanks for wishing my mother dreamer a happy birthday
She loved it very much and she likes your welsh accent very much mauler
Oh, i'm glad
She had a good she likes your welsh at welsh accent
Has anyone ever said that before that they like your welsh accent not many people know but um
It's because last time he had a lady in bed. Did she snuggle up to you and say
Give me that welsh accent
I mean, why would a gentleman does not kiss and tell sir
Give me that thick daddy. Uh welsh
One more day say the name of that city that I like
And then just like wait while I get through the whole thing. She's like
Apping the thing every time you pound the flea
Oh call gg man lives a faggot one more time
I mean joseph. Oh wait. Yeah, I think I might have called him faggot too. I don't remember all the people
How many people have you called a faggot probably like four five maybe
It's insane I had to get a book to make sure
To keep them track of it all um according to ancient texts the great scholar
Thelonious once called bagidious. Oh, sorry the long years
The long years called bagidious amassive and started his long
lifelong war to prove traps are gay hi das
Hello hello das
Writing is hard guys. Well then don't do it turbo
I think he was gonna yeah, it's not an excuse
No, of course not this job's hard. He's like, well, it's your job
If you can't do it if it's too hard for you then go do another job and let someone else do this job
If it's too hard
Maybe you're wrong, but also writing hard you entitled fan
This is at this point. It's like let a fan do it if you think it's too hard
We'll do it for free. I'm sure there are many fans who would be over the moon if they could write games. Oh, yeah
Writing is hard. So seasons one through four were easy. They were the apex seasons ps kick j
Oh again, he's been pre-kicked pre-kicked
Pre-kicked we know it's coming
Rose
hyperspace tracker neither fin or rose knew about it fin told rose that they were being tracked through hyperspace and rose instantly guessed correctly
That it was because of new tech. It wasn't pre-knowledge. It was just a quick and convenient guess it's bad, but not a plot hole
um
Well, I mean didn't I think we went over this last time
This is the in what we were talking about. Well when it comes to the tracker what we generally talk about is fin
Yeah, he's saying neither fin nor rose knew about it fin told rose they're being tracked through hyperspace and rose instantly guessed correctly
It was because of new tech. It wasn't pre-knowledge. It was just a quick and yeah, but we were still talking about the fact that he knew
Which room it was gonna be for the specific process or whatever and it's also
One that I don't even think I addressed but the fact that they had the full blueprint of the ship
That's something other people talk about which is like
Like it that seems like it would be
You have the blueprints of the ship that actually showed the very weak spots of like some of the most important
Systems on the ship. How did you get that?
Plus didn't he
Try sweep the tracker room
Well, so this is this is the question
I need to I want to look at the dialogue again to be certain but um
This conversation has been going on for literally nearly two years
Like so they're so extensive this this whether or not it's a plot hole is
Um because he says yeah, we we've established it's a problem. The argument now is just how big of a problem
What kind and how big yeah?
I think it's huge problem either way whether you want to call it a plot hole or whatever
Huge prove everything to do with the hyperspace tracking or the the space chase or the fuel. It's all garbage
But uh, it gets it gets the film that they wanted to make I guess but yeah, i'll try and
Look into it. Um, i'm pretty sure I do talk about it in one of the later parts of the tfa thing
So I will be looking into it again
Uh, wow, ah blue blue, please be nice to me mega corp that covers up deaths caused by accidents in its theme parks
I'm gonna tell this
fajakia
a knock knock joke
I get it
Actually, I don't get that one. Um the marketoids
I I also get that one raw very nice
mauler at the start of every efap you should speak some
Wailsian tongue to repel the satanic subjectivity shills also. Hi quinton. He's behind you
You look behind me dude
Wailsian tongue to repel really think we we seek out the satanic subjectivity shills. I don't think
I don't think wailsian tongue will prevent it from
Continuing dan and dave most definitely played dynasty warriors and used it as an inspiration for episode three
I mean
I I don't feel like we should say they used anything as inspiration. So that's just offensive to whatever content we're talking about
I well dynasty warriors
There's like silly tactics and you're supposed to take on massive hordes of enemies at once by yourself and stuff like that
It's it's very purposefully fantastical and silly even that probably makes more sense than what they did
probably
I think the next star wars should be real life footage showing super soldiers going
Bunga bunga on all hollywood execs and wiping them out now. That's risky
You should just go riskier have it be the there's all kinds of everything happening all at once just giant explosion of colors
Pretty risky. Well audiences like that. I don't know risky
Can the toilet break after he gets shot so that he lands face first into his own crab as the credits play over?
Oh, that was referencing our um theoretical toilet man who is pooping for the whole film and gets shot
I think it I think it subverts your expectations if the poop never leaves the body though
That's well, even though they say he's just trying to poop
They say the dead people um, you know evacuate so you know, we'd have to correct that with like a plot whole thing
Like a coroner say
Man, his his butt sealed itself
Yeah, it's a strange metal heat. This man actually has no butthole
Is the thing you just didn't rare rare medical condition no butthole. He's never pooped before
And it's finally built up eventually over his whole life. It finally just builds up and then he explodes into a massive
poop explosion
Terrible way to go
Thank goodness. Someone shot him before that happened
You need to get emergency surgery to give him a butt hole
Very it's a it wasn't an Oscar this film. It was very emotional. Oh dang to be in the main role, of course
Yeah, he played the poo nailed it
I just wanted the freedom to make my mistakes. Congrats. Now comes the punishment. Oh my
I mean you can call it punishment. I just call it criticism and it's gonna happen even if
Felt that you tried and just so hard
It's just so quite damn hard
What a condescending pretentious dickweed, oh my
so
Infuriated with this man
The colors green and white on the welsh flag are henry tudor's colors because he had a bunch of welsh guys with him
When he defeated richard the third and ruined england the flag was designed then
interesting
If missouri is bad man, am I bad man for living there?
I mean
It's got demonetized. So that means you're demonetized as a person
Cannot make money in any way shape or form
Some wings of redemption on the iron throne it'll snap
Maybe you don't know
Could be the you know, just
Could be that there's like magical properties and the no matter what it'll never break
That's how you get a sword up your bum
So jack face no, you can't just punish me for making mistakes stop being mean to me because I can't write with a damn
No, I was supposed to be free
I really think ra did not like the comment about writing being odd
You know at least darlin tried to make an equal society
Hey, I forgot we were talking about how if they try to do a thing then
You gotta respect it. Thank you. Happy birthday maul the massive hobo is going well and hello there. That's bullshit
He's muted
No, nope, nope, there's mute
Now see here's what i'm doing. Um, normally I use push to talk
But i've been noticing uh when I do use push to talk when I let go
Of the key it cuts me off at the last word and that is really frustrating
So what i'm just kind of doing I have a noisy keyboard and a squeaky chair
So i'm trying to be polite so it's like when i'm typing something. I like to mute myself. So all good
This person said hi to you mr. Gigi and rags
Oh hello
Go get yourself some tasty geodes and rhino milk. Oh and kick jay until he finishes lord the ring's extended
Anything we've tried okay, we tell him every time it's not I don't understand. What are we supposed to do?
Other than strap him down which we shouldn't have to beg people to watch these amazing movies and he's like, oh, yeah
I'm gonna watch the shitty netflix movie making with you about the whole thing
And I won't watch the lord of the rings
Jay watch lord of the rings make a video about it. Okay. Good boy. Okay. Good good pat pats j good. Good man. You can do it
You can do it. What if jay won't like lord of the rings?
Well, then is he really human at that point? No, I think that's something that we should know
Yeah
You guys can strap me down if you really want
On the first day of thrones must might have gave to me
a brand king and
Grand king and
A
Why are you singing christmas carols halloween is almost out that's true
But you see we're gonna christmas memes and eyes. We were forced into an august
Uh huge plot holes for five huge plot holes
Long
Um game of thrones christmas special this year
Yeah
I think that show is going to be putting its grave now. They don't want to touch it again. Still they do all the prequel stuff which
I'd be surprised that came out this year
Christmas, I mean ryan johnson always said movies are like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get
No, I don't
Except with me. It's
Generally poo. Yeah, like there's no real much confusion. You're like, oh that's gonna be bad
I um, I spoke to critical drinker
He's up for doing an efap movies on knives out once it's on the the blu-ray tisms
Oh, yeah, we'll check it out
Um, it may not even be something we can upload like who knows what'll happen, but we'll try we'll give it a shot
We'll see what it's like
Maybe it'll be good right rex. It'll be it could be good. Right it there's a it's not logically impossible
In theory it's possible
Um, this is why you should forgive game of thrones laughs in christmas
I mean
Don't get why you played that music. He's such a bad choice
Maybe he's just trying to rely on how christmas is a time where everyone's nice to each other. That's it
He's going for
Um on the second day of thronesmas my true love gave to me two dead dragons
Yeah, yeah
Don't you see the xmas music is subversive themes
Actually
kind of
That kind of works it was subversive was it not
Maybe that's what he's going for. I feel I feel subverted
I feel subverted in all my naughty parts
Um, oh i've just been made aware that apparently angry joe fucked up his joker review hardcore
Oh really?
He's gone what is it with you angry joe
Apparently he got details wrong and he said it doesn't really feel like a dc movie people are really upset
Oh no angry joe, oh no, maybe we'll cover him next week. Oh, no
Oh, the top comment is quote this doesn't feel like a dc movie to me and that's an
unintentionally ringing endorsement
Well, that's actually the first thing I said to alex would have finished. I was like
Never have I been more happy to see a dc movie that separated itself from the fucking dcu like it's
This movie alone is better than all of them all of the good qualities the dcu put together. It's just like they just fucked
It's so nice to watch one that wasn't fucked
Wasn't limited. I mean who's it's not isn't it fringy?
He's been like advocating for the dcu to reset for like a million years
It's like at least he gets to pretend for a second like it it could have in an alternate universe or something
How's he doing for um
like ratio
Oh jeez 72 percent
Yeah, and you know, oh it's been out for two days if that was like hours, that would be really bad, but yeah
Yeah, oh joe oh joe you just can't review movies
We sort of review names. Oh, yeah, i'd recommend don't read the comments. But um
Yeah, i've already been made aware of some things. He's gotten wrong. I already know one of them is like
Oh, how did you fuck that up? Listen, did you fall asleep in the theater?
Oh, anyway, uh, wait, wait, wait
Um
It's december ween you absolute masters, I know
You know december ween is the best of all of the weens
Have you guys the stores already started packing in like, uh christmas stuff by the way mine mine have
Like local i haven't seen any christmas stuff yet. We haven't even got a halloween section
In our local, uh tesco
I went there there's already a christmas section. I was like, what the fuck is the halloween stuff pieces of shit
You should get this. Yeah, we've got halloween stuff all over the place. But um
Not a christmas stuff. I mean stuff in the asda least is that
Asta asda is a actually owned by walmart. So me complimenting them is actually me complimenting america. How about that?
Oh, that's great. Then I approve
Um
I want rags to give me something big this halloween
Mm, I think I might have a thing just for you. Good
Quick play act boss spooky theme
I bought spooky theme
Who knows what that could be? He has a spooky theme
apparently
Tackled true misogyny. Isn't ew mcgregor a homewrecker who also cheated on his wife and family? Laugh my ass off kill yourself
degenerate hollywood college joker
Um, uh, I don't know. I don't know if that's if he's done any of that stuff
But reading that about the whole like you know men men we got to keep track of the the things we do
Every day because you know what we need to stop doing it. It's like speak for yourself, buddy
Speak for yourself. Didn't feminist ewan mcgregor cheat on his wife?
Oh, I guess he did then. I don't know. Maybe like this seems to be a couple people referencing this
Uh, rapers beware you're in for a scare
What's that referencing?
Oh, well, that's goosebumps. Oh
Uh rapers beware you're in for a scare
Why?
Why wb allow you to do black face as black mask?
Oh
I see where you're going with that. I get it
He's playing black mask in that film. Is he actually he's gonna have to put on a black mask at some point then right?
Because I know black mask from uh
Which was the
I was watching one of the animated dc movies with it's not flashpoint paradox. I think it's the one
batman and
I can't remember
The voice of of black mask in that one though
It was done by the warden guy from prison break
I remember recognizing his voice because I had seen prison break at that point and I was like, oh my goodness
I recognize you. Oh my goodness. Oh of all of my goodnesses
Imagine having such a comfortable life that your main problem is about guys making a bit of room for their balls
I never took that seriously because I thought it was just a big joke and then I saw um
like some kind of
Live cover like a news source covering it man spreading and I was like, oh my god
Why do we have to explain what's going on down there that requires that we don't keep the legs tightly shut together?
We yeah, man, I wonder if there's a reason for that
They're just rude that's all it is. Yep. That's all it is. Yeah
Oh under the hood that could have been it yeah
Ready bob look
Under the red hood
For the spoopy ghost. Happy birthday and rags. Hi rags. Sorry. Hello
Uh mauler is baby
All right
Mahler mauler is big baby. He's happy massive birthday mauler and also. Hello rags
Hello
The long man betrayed us. He's trying to become short
See this is the this is the thing I talked about I talked about this a lot
A six-hour podcast is considered short. Like what is what is life anymore? We
We fucked everything up. We have people being like I can't possibly watch exist too long
And then we have people being like if you go any shorter
nine hours
We will condemn you. It's like all right. All right, jeez
Don't find a happy medium of about you know
Eight seven eight hours. I think there we go
Majora's mask is objectively better in my opinion
I have not played enough of the zelda games to be able to comment really
Yeah, couldn't hazard a guess
I haven't played majora's mask
But apparently they're using the majora's mask like spooky direction for the next uh zelda switch game and I gotta be honest
I'm looking forward to that
Uh, happy old day another year another subdivision of death
Yes, he tried to get me this time around but I said no
Oh
Songs, I don't know which one it is, but the one where they just say, oh no. Oh that one
Nine nine nine
It's tried to take me tools of rehabilitation, but I said
999 take a shot revival series when uh, take a shot
I did I did like the game and the concept problem is if I was to play with rags
You'll probably have to be like what?
So I used to before I even started streaming on twitch
I had a series called take a shot, which was basically just playing
like classic games but adding drinking rules the kind of
uh
The idea was kind of a competitive co-op with somebody playing the game. So say it was like
Simpsons hit and run for every time you get busted
It would be a shot every time you complete a character's reads of levels
Take a shot. Um every time
Do what there were other rules simpson run one worked really well
But um if I was to do with you though
The problem is they're supposed to be shots of like spirits like like rum or
Back that sort of thing. So if I was you need like shots of beer probably
Kill you. Oh, whoa. Whoa. Okay. Uh, wow first off
I've got booze
Yeah
But you said three beers makes you drunk. I want to kill you
No, no, not like drunk drunk like three is like that's a lot for me
You know, that doesn't mean I become some sort of a a useless
floppy
floppy boned
Individual who cannot do anything or complete tasks or manipulate his environment adequately
Doesn't it though?
No, it doesn't
It doesn't it absolutely doesn't I can I can take shots
Like how many?
Freezer I all of them
Because like shell counter can go pretty high only
Fine
like like past 20
Past 20 that's child's play. All right
I was born in the alcohol
As in I was I had I had I I have uh fetal alcohol tisms
Oh, I don't know what that means
So instead of instead of blood most people have blood that runs through their veins and stuff that delivers oxygen, right?
Instead I have alcohol
And the alcohol carries it ill bubbly it's like shampoo
Didn't you say you're gonna drink seven out of three drinks though?
I can which is more than all of them
Yeah, that's like twice the all of them
But um
Okay. Well, there you go. We'll we'll maybe we'll set that up someday mean ranks. We can do some shots play some tisms
the whole works
um
The slown old king he did return captain marvel triple x unbridled praise when I feel like I saw this one before
They repeated it
Uh, the banjo games are more like puzzle games
um
I mean, there's still plenty of platforming in them
And they're collectathons
There's puzzle elements for sure
I mean there's kind of puzzle elements in uh
Zelda and mario too
You're too you're told to get an item and it's up for you to figure out the path to it
Fair enough a good tonal video. It's the birthday gift or christmas miracle joy to the world creeps it. Oh, yeah
That's probably the best tonal video we will ever see honestly
Happy birthday maula you old man. You why thank you. Uh, we need a one-year anniversary gedelp stream for its third year
Oh, do you mean like
streaming us watching it or
What I stream
How would gedelp be streamed how did it work gedelp stream
Uh, that's 100 clickbait she's just a minister for propaganda and beta kills her. Oh, I remember reading that
Oh
I'm currently working on a job application
Is overcoming invisible barriers of blockage an acceptable answer to a question about handling challenges at work?
Mm-hmm. I pretty sure they'd be pretty impressed
Like you don't even have to watch efap to know that that's impressive
Um also hi rags
Hello and happy long monday maula. I thank you
Uh, dear efap, would you rather eat only veggie flavored instant ramen for a week or be unable to eat any bread products for two weeks?
Unable to eat any bread products for two weeks. That's actually that's really easy for me because I generally don't eat any products. Um
I I do eat some bread products here and there but I could absolutely sacrifice them for two weeks knowing
That I wouldn't have to eat only veggie flavored instant ramen for a week. That's uh, i've got
Like I ate a lot of do a lot of snack and jerky
um berries
nuts lots of nuts
I assume bread products involve sandwiches
Eggs. Yeah, um, I have salads here and there
um
some red meat once in a while
um zucchini mushrooms
Stuff like that, you know
But not really bread products don't eat don't eat a lot of those. I haven't for a while
Um, it's me luke. The emperor slips on a banana peel. Whoa hits balls on a railing ouch my balls
parts and falls down the reactor
It would have been risky. That's all i'm saying it would have been risky
Don't you think it would have been risky? I think it would have been risky
Uh efap card game is now 85 516 cards and drinking game expansion added. Oh my god
Wow, also happy birthday maula. Hi rags. Love you dbs. Hello
Uh miss you wolf and kick j
Very curious how this card game is gonna work
Sounds like he's really really going for it
um
My new securo review features an image of the of great doggo rags
So thank you to efap fan artists just a typical ozzy for drawing it. Hi maula. Hello
I hope it's going well mauler
Uh, happy birthday maul you massive n-word also. Hi wags
Hello. Hello. Oh god
Starting hi wags
Whoa wags took a clap on the carpet
Oh
Oh, no, hi wags
Hello
Hi wags
Oh
I remember you guys thinking about getting code vein. I would recommend getting it on sale
It's not bad, but it's a little first attempt at souls like it has some cool mechanics
Fair enough. Yeah, i've been hearing different things
Yeah, um and after beating I would recommend it hopefully a more refined sequel comes along
All right
Uh two days before my own birthday and maula streams twice in one day
Happy birthday to me and happy birthday to you longman. Take my shackles one for each subjective year
Oh, thank you very much brothers
birthday brothers
Also just tweeted you a sample page from the card game. Yes, and I managed to show it. It was wonderful
Oh
Big chungus wags
Ooh, they're trying to say you got a big chungus not saying that's bad. I'm a big old chungus
Be okay with it
Good
All consecutive weeks now sans is in smash bros
Sure. I mean keep announcing it. We're still gonna be okay with it. I am
Glad that you are glad about that. You guys should respond to some of the comments on the I hate everything podcast video
Uh, I didn't actually have a look at them. I don't know if there's anything interesting
Um
We've got several podcasts that will address all of it so it's just like if people don't want to know what's actually going on
Good for them, but also at the same time. Maybe they do address it in those comments
Um
Anyway, hey to be fair to the wags podcast it is hard to lie
Oh
It is hard to lie if you're not, you know able to keep track of all the lies
Wait, all the lice all the lice. Yeah, they get everywhere. They just
Go on that shit. I imagine if they didn't move as like a large group, it would be difficult to keep
So
Something that I showed on streamer uni before uh, sorry distracted by memes, uh
What if wags was a weir sheeb wouldn't his transformation be from a doggo to a human
No, it would be from a doggo to a weir doggo
Well, you know what weir means right that's becoming cannon
Like
Listen, I just it just be what it do. Okay, but but you know what we're in werewolf means. Yes
Were it means were is like it were it were a wolf
That's why it's what's called where because the word were actually um, it were wolf, but now it's a person
murusana, you're uh
what you'd get is
Like a rag's coloring and the limbs would be similar, but yeah, you'd be much more human like probably
Yeah, very more. I guess anthropomorphic with the claws and teeth and fangs and
Maybe all shouty big fucking dick, you know, that would be wags
Ravaging the countryside
Of course can't forget
Um, I actually got to chat with fatman one-on-one about all this on discord
He admitted to making a lot of mistakes here and there
All right
Well, it was him against the world. So
What can I say it reminds everything I said earlier about I hate everything
It's like me and rags don't really give a shit and then it's like snipe snipe snipe and you walk over there
Like what are you doing? And he's like blah blah
It's like, okay
Bye
Yeah, all this stupid quote tweeting and being like look how stupid these people are then people like what do you mean?
He's an interesting man to say the least
Um, yes fully playable with unique rules and play style. How are we gonna play it?
It's like don't you need I'm gonna need a program where we have to maybe print them out somehow and
I don't know what's gonna happen with that. But I am I am enticed. Yeah, that might be an issue
Um, happy possible 26th birthday mola also hi wags
Hello. Hello. Thank you. Hello
Where we swagger?
Remember when anakin was trying to save those who he loves we embraced the dark side and she wound up dead
You
Trying to compare this to how
Nowadays, we're just getting very confused as to what the goals are for characters and how they're failing because I don't disagree
In fact all of it's very confusing
Um, happy birthday. Did ra throw a cake off a rooftop?
I I don't know. Oh, I mean for the birthday. That would make sense actually
Hi wags
Hello wags 350 legend or 450 bushmaster
All right, I'm I'm not sure enough about the two of them to compare i'm afraid
No, uh 350
Led what do you say 350 legend or 450 bushmaster?
Or 450 that's the
um
The nitro, right?
Uh, let me see rifle cartridge. Oh that um
It like i'm aware of that that big old thing. Uh, let me see
350 legend. Yeah, I don't I don't know enough about him. I I just don't know enough about him i'm afraid
Molesley is streaming with guest rags. How ironic
How ironic mola's birthday is every year. How ironic
Hmm molar and rags are two of my three favorite people on the internet. Mr. Gigi is the third you made my day
All right. Wow, that's quite uh, oh, all right. We we can we sure can't pick them
Hi rags, that wasn't even spelled wags. That's just rags. Oh, wow back to the classics
Hello, I chronicled the teachings of beginning in my latest video. What makes good rat if any masses want to check it out
um
All right. Well, I i'll i'll see if I can have a look see maybe it may be a funny tism
Who really knows?
Be able to really just figure out what makes good rat. That's
Very few have been able to crack such a feat
Uh molar i'm slightly concerned this efap seems to be wrapping up and it's only five hours. Are you okay?
Is someone forcing you to be this short say the code? We're fine
We need if banana banana banana
Yeah
Well, we're at six we need it six and a half hours so
There you go. Yeah
Happy birthday molar. Thank you for everything you do. There's no other channel that could make me stand so many degenerates
I and all my clowns will always have your back. Hope this chat goes through else. I got a clown army
I got to tell susan a knock knock joke. That was raw
That almost seems genuine and I feel like like he's being a nice tism
High five he really does. He really does have a
a heart of his
army of clowns but a heart of something
Could be gold
You know we have to look
Um on a pc an orphan file is a support file that no longer serves a purpose because the parent app is associated has been removed
or deleted
I agree orphans don't serve a purpose
Waste space and oxygen
I mean
They waste bone density. I think that's the biggest takeaway that we've often
Think of all the kids who have parents who could use that extra bone density
And I you know, I hate to bring it up, but what can you do? This the truth is the truth. I mean
Your birthday hooker molar no
The answer was 22 000 telephone poles an hour
What was the question wow
That's a lot of telephone poles every hour
yes
I imagine I couldn't even do one poll an hour
Hey, I do not celebrate halloween and you choosing to do
You choosing to is really offensive to me. Can you please add elements of full solstice so everyone can join in?
Thanks
Uh
I mean
It doesn't say halloween on here does it
It's just got like a bunch of it says no, it's just it's spooky themed. Yeah, it's just spooky. It's just spooky
It's just spooktacular
Hopefully there's spooky elements to full solstice. I guess
Uh, also ask rags how he is rags. How are you?
Um, I are well
Doing okay doing pretty good
Looking good feeling good
stuff in the works
There you go
Uh das will be eustace. Why not quinton?
No one likes quinton and eustace's likable character compared to him. He's more the fat flan guy
also
Peach what the fuck was all of that?
I'm just reading it over. I no one likes quinton character more fat flan guy
Is like a youtuber
Quinton no eustace
No eustace is um encourage the cowardly dog's uh owner with muriel
Oh, I thought I wasn't sure if that's what he was referring to
Oh, I I don't know. I just oh and fat flan guy does refer to something encourage the cowardly dog. All right
Uh, if you say beer can with an english accent you are also saying bacon with a jamaican accent
bacon
beer can
beer can
dick
Uh, if you engage in pixel fucking do you deserve to get pixel aids? Yes, yes, you do
No, you don't that was raw. So can you really really find that shocking?
Um, can you see if you get the quartering on your show sometime, please it's not impossible
Um, you're sure it's possible. We shall see who knows what's gonna happen in the future
We're trying to get some more new guests new blood cycle it around
Splash the blood around, you know as you do splish splash. I was taking a blood bath
Donating my money to the supreme leader of the toxic brood. Why oh my
Have you guys been paying attention to the news pretty much begging for a joker mass shooting?
Well, yes, if yeah, if it happened, i'm pretty sure we would never hear the end of it for like a week two weeks
Well, yeah, and they were waiting for that
They they couldn't wait for me. I told you so who cares if the lives are lost
They just needed to tell us so and I don't even know what like what is it supposed to be about the joker?
That's like controversial
It's because it's a white man being victimized and they're gonna think white men are bad and therefore a white man
Gonna go fucking kill people or something like that
It's just it's just another thing
The whole reason that this controversy started because the joker's a white guy and how dare we possibly feel sorry for a white
Guy therefore we're gonna shoot people. Hey
uh
hmm
All this fucking shit is uh, if joker were a black guy the narrative would be flipped entirely
Well, I was gonna say some other things about the film but I was like i'll probably save it for next week, uh
But it's funny all this stuff was happening before the film was even like seen by certain people so that oh, yeah
Couldn't even know what in the film would support the ideas of maybe some of this stuff, but
um
All right fringy would be a warlock or a witch doctor
Yeah, that's fair
watch a status
um
Pretty sure rags is seen right?
Oh, yeah, i've seen it
I have yes. Yes, it's very disconnected, you know, because it's not really
40k, but you know, you don't need to
Fair enough
uh, not for this
Tlj spoiler video argues that people who criticize the rules of the force doesn't matter because kids won't think about how the force works
so again
First mistake was watching chris tuckman
Don't
Like you know, you gotta you gotta get out of that that phase of listening to somebody come home from as he self-admitted
comes home
Just talks in front of a camera for a bit
And then he uploads it
Subscribe to anyone else
Uh, just hoping you saw my first meme video in efap memes
You may have skipped over when you were drunk control f ton of fun only bring it up
Because you came up with the idea for it also. Hi rags
Hello
um
In efap me
Uh, I will have a look
Um, but also send it to my twitter if you haven't already
Um very often find them. I do miss them every once in a while, but I try
Get a bunch of notifications
Someone sent me a screenshot of barfy on twitter with the subtitle slice of dice
Guessing someone says slice of dice in that episode. I don't
Excellent, um
So
I'm going to bed now looking forward to you still going when I wake up. Good night rags
Oh good night, but I don't think we'll be I don't think we'll be going that long. Not today. I don't think so
19 hours is not going to be a common occurrence
even though when we did the 24 hour when I was like
Accidentally do a 24 hour. That's not going to happen
Six is five hours away. We were five hours away from accident like
I don't know. I feel like we could accidentally do a 24 hour stream
Um, good night. My we have the right guests and the right topics
We might just keep going and going and going could happen and then the content creators themselves one after the other would come to debate
It's like oh, no, no cyber cyber in the chat. I didn't say he doesn't need to watch it
I said he doesn't need to know the lore to watch it
Yeah
You did say that. Um, good night. My boy is amazing as always. Well, I thank you
Uh
We did super metroid for the fourth time one of the best games ever. Did you uh,
Do you ever get the best ending mauler? I don't think so. I'm not that uh
Like that amazing at super metroid. I really liked what I played of it
Because I thought it was great. I did complete it twice
Again, not not expert enough to be doing all of the protisms
Um just metroid with super
Hey rags
Hey, what do you use the third mouse button on your g600 4?
I will tell you
Depending on the game
I will generally use it as in-game chat
So if I need to um, if I if there's a proximity chat in there or if it's like a party
Uh system like killing floor two and stuff like that
Then i'll use that button to do a they basically chatting. It's very very easy to touch
It doesn't get in the way of anything else very very natural
In fact a lot of the times when I play with people and then we
Swap to a discord call. I will still act it's so easy to use that i'll hit the button when I talk and
Essentially talk both in discord and in the game because it's so easy. Um in some games it is um
Inventory as if it's very quick and I need to use it
Um in oh in in day z I use it to swap between first and third person if I play a third person server
um
In battlefield for a long time. I used it as my swap to a secondary because it's very very quick
So pull out your pistol. He's you click that mouse button and it just whips it whips it right out, but for the most part
Voice chat, but I use it for a wide variety of things just depending on the game
But it's it spoiled me man. I can't not have it now. It's just such a perfect button to have right there
I'm shocked at how few mice
Don't have that third mouse clicker for your ring finger
Like i'm legitimately surprised that hasn't become almost like a standard thing
Uh, they followed up with saying I have the I have the um, I have the one where you've got two buttons on the thumb
Uh, do you got that as well?
No, i've got 12 buttons on the side
Oh one of those yes. Yeah, and I love it. I love like I love this mouse
I can't I can't use another mouse that doesn't have these the side buttons in the
in the clicker click
My opinion on the healing floor two paid weapons
um
I mean the game's been out for how many years and we've gotten how many free guns at this point
I mean i'm i'm not thrilled. I'm not happy, but I can't I don't think i'm gonna begrudge them
Because of how much free content they've been putting out for this game
Uh that they're finally adding a gun that is paid dlc
And with the it's certainly not pay to win
There's so many good guns in the game already that they've been adding. Yeah, and the game is stacked with guns for all the classes
Yeah, I mean just this week they had their uh, their halloween event come out
Um, let me double check what it's called dupe two scroll through melisti list
um
grim treatments
So they had another
They had another you know seasonal thing release
That game's been getting so much free content for it through the years that
I can't begrudge them for a paid dlc weapon. It's a great game. Anyone who likes
Shooters and co-op games definitely owe it to yourself to play killing floor two
Um
Jose P lyre is asking really quick. What do you guys uh, let me see you get excited for the last of us too me
Fuck. Yes. I am. I'm really excited for it. No, I don't give a shit like like I know the game is just like
It's like I know that the game is kind of like everything you've seen before but like
Naughty dog was saying that this was like their longest and most ambitious campaign
Like to date like out of everything they've ever made. Uh, they're they're forgoing multiplayer as a result of this
I'm like sure. Okay. I mean the multiplayer in the last of us one was fine
But I feel like just you know adding more to the campaign is like
Yeah, absolutely
So, uh, yeah, and it looks like they're going in an even darker direction than before so it's like yeah
All right, so i'm i'm in it for the story definitely for the story the gameplay. It was fine. I didn't hate it
Oh, I hope it's good
Yeah, I hope so too
Uh, the other guy followed on with saying he's had his for years
But he mostly uses the numpad and ignores that third button
Very interesting
Um, it's weird because it's just your finger's always there. It's just like a free it's like a free function
For anything
So if you ever are playing a game and you're like, man
It's a pain in the butt to click whatever button or hit whatever thing or to do this or that then
Just swap it
Or just voice chat, you know
Is movie bob's halo reach review gonna happen?
I suggested it a month or two ago and you guys seemed interested
I mean I probably I doubt I would have really been because I don't remember much about halo reach. I could imagine
Rags probably 50 50 in terms of like maybe yeah, I would be i'd be i'd be good for covering it
I played lord knows I played a crap ton of it back on the xbox. Is it coming out with the mass chief collection on pc?
It's the first one to come out. So then yeah, i'll play it again and then we can do that if you want
Yeah, we can do that. Sure. I remember liking reach
Um, I might be a wrong man, but I was never super into halo. So that might explain more
Thanks for the feedback guys, you probably not heard anything because it's such a small community the biggest channel hit was at 100k subs
This is about the um, the german music thing
Oh, there's no feedback. They're just removed for hate speech the creators stop uploading anything world war two related
But they still got strikes if anyone's interested. You can get more info from dr. Ludwig's archive
Survived because he stopped uploading anything other than status updates
um
That's fucked up. Yeah, that really sucks
Music is like really uh, whatever. Yeah, youtube have interesting rules though
That one actually sounds like it's like someone's got an eye on the channel, you know
Doing stuff down
Just put a bot on evil mode onto there, uh
Uh, happy birthday longman also. Hello rags you adorable son of a bitch
Happy birthing day mauler. I raise my rhino milk to another year older for the longman. Thank you
Multi python's flying circus turned 50 yesterday
Oh, I had no idea
I have all of the money python flying circus episodes on dvd that i've watched is very funny
Rags hi
Hello also, what is your ratio of fairy and normal porn?
This poor one, but i'm pretty sure it means
um
I would say at this point it's probably mostly furry but one of the reasons is um
Most of my porn isn't normal, uh in a sense that it's not real life photo, you know photographs and video stuff like that a lot of them
sure
but
for me a big part of um
sexuality and being turned on and
um
You know getting in the mood is like conceptual
like ideas and
Scenarios and things like that. So I find when it's just easier for me to I guess connect with that in more
Illustrated kinds of fashion, but that's just me. Uh
This is one of those subjective things. It's just like, you know horror comedy. What gives you a boner?
Well, it gives it's pretty much just what gives you a boner
That's the way the it's classically put like in a civil conversation
You just say like what gives you a boner or what scares you or what, you know, that's what adults say to each other. Jesus
Yes in pretty much scientific environments. Thanks youtube for saving me the naughty p-word first amendment bad, I guess
All right, because he said porn
Is there a place to find people you had on efap
Yes, actually, uh youtube normally I would say no
but you go to the description of this video slash stream
And then you find a link to the efap.me site
And then you look at the guest section and you'll see a full list of every person who came on
What ones they came on for and how long they've been on for and links to their channels. It's amazing
I'll say it so it said and yet and yet rags claim to not know how to pronounce yo yoi
I legit don't know how to pronounce. It's y-a-o-i. It's a y in three vowels
You would have to hear it spoken aloud to know how to pronounce a word like that
And also I don't i'm actually not new that I don't like hentai. I'm not i'm not really big into hentai
I'm very very selective
very selective about hentai
When I first read that word, it kind of reminded me of like arnold schwarzenegger like spazzing out in last action hero
Yeah
Um, yeah, i'm very very particular with my hentai most of it I just couldn't be bothered but
Um, if rags becomes crabby would he become a crab ragu crab ragu?
I don't know. I don't know answers questions like that. I would never become crab. I've never been i'm just a bundle full of laughs
I'm just smiles all the time. I'm just smiles for miles
I don't know if you guys saw my super chat from last week
But ramming in hyperspace is explained in a new hope when han is helping luke flee the empire on tatooine
Well, he explains that you can end up crashing yourself
And that's in line with the understanding of hyperspace not being traveling at super speeds rather that you
like do a slip space thing because if you travel at light speed, which is a word that is used but uh
In several of the films in different portions
We have the captain marvel problem, which is light speed doesn't get you anywhere in the galaxy really very fast
but um
Yeah, it was like the main issue is like this unwritten rule. You're smart enough not to use it as a giant weapon
Regardless of however, the physics may or may not work because it destroys every battle in the past
So if everyone agrees not to use it like as writers, then everything gets maintained
um
But the idea being that you come out of the slip space hyperspace thing and say it's a ship you crash into
You just crash into it. You don't create this enormous
Thing, um, or at least that's how I understood a lot of it
but i'll probably go over more of it when we get to that bit in tfa where he um
He hyperspace is out of the hangar
Because a lot of people have issues with that as well as when he hyperspace is past a shield because of its refresh rate
That'd be another one, um
Are we
ER would be the bell hunchback from the courage episode because everybody won't say anything nice about him also make efap courage memes
Anyone hate us
Hello, I like efap courage means that sounds like a good idea
Happy birthday more. Thanks for the 1.2 billion hours of content
The toxic brood fandom menace a discord far far away and good rats. Love you
My thank you very much. Mr glib appreciate it
Uh, hey guys want to see something really fucking stupid spacewalk inspires analysis of whether the iss was built with male astronauts in mind
What I don't know that's just a quote
Based on the difference between inspires analysis of whether the iss was built with male astronauts in mind
Well, I like I assume that the like the lavatory system that they use on board is
probably works for both
Surely they would have both in mind and they they have both of
I don't yeah, I maybe i'm missing something like, um
Body type related stuff. I don't know
I'm yeah, i'm curious what what there would be. Yeah
Finally finished episode 50 part three cranked up speed to 1.5 times to finish the last half hour. I bet you wish you could have done that
I mean I survived either way
Also, we loved every moment. Oh, hello. Hello
Uh, did you see the video by the star of the captain marvel porn parody talking smack about plank?
I hope she I would
I hope she does a real I would i'd be curious what a real actress has to uh
Has to say about captain marvel. Yeah
Also, hi rags shit
Hello, I haven't even finished the super chat stream yet. Happy birthday maula. May you have many more long years? Why? Thank you
Hope you enjoy it. Um, objectively my lettuce is spoiling but subjectively spoiled produce is good for you
Do I deserve to get sick?
Say that one more time. Objectively. I want to be clear
Objectively, my lettuce is spoiling but subjectively spoiled produce is good for you. Do I deserve to get sick?
Subjectively spoiled produce is good for you. I'm guessing they're referring to the definition of good. That's they like it
Can they say subjectively? Um, I mean if if you like it
And it depends why you're doing it
And it depends why you're doing it it depends on why you're doing it if you're aware that it's spoiling
But you like eating it should you get sick or do you deserve to get sick?
Let me see that might that's a little bit more complicated than the other ones actually
so
Now eating something like you know that something
is bad
Like you could essentially equate this to
I guess well not even drug use this would probably be less harmful than drug use
The worst thing that happens is that you might get a little bit sick and then you'd be fine afterwards generally. Um
Do you deserve to be sick?
Well if you're if you're
That's interesting i'd actually have to think about that
That's actually a very interesting question
It's a lot more
It's it's a lot harder than the you know, the leper one or the water
um
Because I don't I I would need to if it's a question of like a
Moral like is it would the question be like do you personally believe?
That someone should essentially become poisoned as a result of eating food that they enjoy but yet recognize has
Gone past its date of being able to be eaten and it's like I assume we have the freedom to be like
I wish they wouldn't I wish that wouldn't happen because I don't think oh, yeah
Yeah, I I don't think they should is it will it is a natural consequence of the decisions that we make
Again, this kind of thing. It just depends on what you
consider to be the definition of you know deserve and I deserve do you think that there is a you know, a justice slash, you know, um
You know moral component that comes into whether you deserve things to happen to you whether they be good or bad
Based on the decisions that you've made and very importantly why you did them
So as opposed to a logical course of events in which case yes, they should get sick if that's what
That's all deserved means to the person asking me a question
well, I even then I mean they they
I don't even know if should is even a word we should use
Because should implies a goal that you're striving towards like if you want to do x then you should do y
so
All like all you can really say if you want to look at it pragmatically is that you're putting yourself at risk
By doing this and if you know, you're putting yourself at risk
Well, then we have to get into the aspect of why are you doing it for what purpose?
that sort of thing
um
Yeah, the nature of you know, the nature of justice and what people deserve is a very complicated one
It's one that
Humanity has struggled with for thousands and thousands of years and when we will continue to do so
It's not like there's a final answer that we're gonna arrive at one day. It's definitely a system in a process
And it's not necessarily clean either. It's not always easy to measure
Agree
I'm sure that's the answer he was expecting. So
There you go
Look at this. Has anyone bothered to look up bad doesn't mean it's bad
It's very good. Has anyone bothered to look up deserve it's all about reward slash penalty
I feel like this person hasn't listened to us discuss this
Who's over this several times? No, I I know the same definition. I think rewards and penalty should
Essentially, I think they come with intrinsically immoral components
And that's why I say you should you like if you're if you're a kind person if you're
Um a nurse or a doctor and you go to a leper colony to try and help people
You don't deserve to get leprosy, right?
But you will potentially get it because you're putting yourself at risk
Same thing
Yeah, I would replace what I I guess I meant instead of should is will as in
Yeah, you might I'd even say might well, yeah, it depends on what the scenario is
So like if you yeah will implies a certainty aspect. I would definitely go with might
With the spoiled produce. Yeah, you there's a chance that won't make you ill, right?
Depending on how bad and I think it's a legitimate thing to start arguing about, you know
What are the chances like you are you are putting yourself into danger every time you drive in your car?
It is probably the most dangerous way that you could possibly travel is in your car
But there's a pragmatic aspect to it that we all accept
And cars do have very stringent safety features and you know
You you wear your seat belt and you do it
You can to minimize all the risks that you take when you're driving down the road. Hopefully, please wear a seat belt everyone
um
so
but if you drive in your car and
You don't wear a seat belt and you purposefully speed and you ignore red lights and stop signs and things of that nature then well
you know if you're going out of your way to
To for the purpose of that risk then that changes things
I'm the person followed up with I listened repeated the whole discussion with aden was painful for lack of looking it up
But it was no that that's pretty much what it yeah, it was looked up. Absolutely. Just how did how is it?
How would it have been painful? We uh, we reached a conclusion with aden being that
She was using it more to mean
Yeah, it was exceptionally. She was in agreement with me
Yeah, she was not she was saying it's a natural result of the events taking place and then rags was
Clarifying that he believes there is a moral component to that word, which I bolster. I think that that's true
I don't think people use that word
In a context without meaning some kind of moral aspect like when you say someone deserves something you're you're almost implying a sense of justice
Yeah, like when we like the whole point of a justice system is that people get what they deserve
That that's the whole that's the whole point of the system
Is that when people do things they get what they when people do bad things they get what they
They pay back, you know their debt they get a proportional no punishment to the crime that they've been found guilty of
Now I think that's sort of you know
You could scale that down in a more casual sense if you will
To things that happen in everyday life and all of this came because someone bought bath water
All this came because some some hoe sold her bath water and people were like I gotta get this chick's bath water
Um, you know, you know, you got bath water at home
You could make it as you could make an imply basically bath water that stuff comes out of the wall for practically free, you know
Yes, but it's not gamer girl bath water now, is it?
Well, maybe you need to find yourself a gamer girl
girl friend gamer girlfriend
And then
Put her in the bath and just strap her down say she can't leave until you make you know
The daily five gallons or whatever and that's your business
Absolutely. Ladies, you know keep keep her away from the phone and you know, I want to make sure I mentioned this that ended with also
High rags, you know, I need to make sure oh, hello. Yeah. Hey
There's always a bigotism true
Like we said, it's pretty much it goes infinite. There's no there's no limit. You know what?
This deserve things interesting. I really I I really do find the topic interesting. I've got a there's a
Another youtuber. I know named steve mccray. He does a lot of philosophy stuff
Next time he's streaming or something and I catch him
I think i'll ask him about that and what he thinks about it because i'm
Huh, we should bring him on here and see what he says
Uh, yeah, maybe uh, maybe i'd be down for that. He does like flat earth and atheist debates and philosophy and
You know theology stuff. He's interesting. He seems like a smart guy. He's smart guy. I like him. He's a good dude
What's sargon's take do we ever ask him?
about deservedness with the
I I would have it have to be in a call. So like I wouldn't want to do it in text. I would have to
Oh, yeah, yeah, but i'm not sure
um
Happy long day birth man bad. I mean, yeah also
Love molar rags death bullshit wolf and the rest of efap and chat. Very kind
Happy long day long guy hi das and rag
Hello, hello. Am I forgetting something?
Uh, no, that would be the three of us were here at that time you sent it. So yeah, go with it. Cool
Happy b-day molar of house long man rain for 1.2
Billion years that would that would be the goal
As a follower of rah, I will break youtube's workers legs arms and hands and then throw them off a rooftop legion of rah
Hashtag also happy b-day emperor molar. Oh, there's more of them
No, I have a question. You said legion of rah hashtag. I meant to say the other way around but um,
Oh, I was wondering if that was like a thing. Yeah, I I read it backwards because my eyes are not working properly, right?
I didn't doing the best thing are they
Are you have you been drinking? No, actually i've just i've been up for a long time now. I didn't expect this. Uh,
It's you know, it's the birthday day
But to get up early to do family tisms and then some parentisms and more family tisms then I did a stream
Where can other tisms so so many different formats of tisms to get all done, you know, it happens
Um, yeah
Hello rags
Hello weird on the street you live around arkansas. How is it for every every day living looking to move out of new york?
I really like it. Um
It's really easy to get around
Things are nice and spread out a little bit. Everyone's got a car drives. Every
Um, it's not expensive to live here. It's not expensive to buy stuff here. Really people are nice
um, no big cities
um
A lot of you know communities and suburbs things of that nature a lot of I mean it's it's the natural state
Is arkansas thing we're the naturals
lots of hiking and
places to go lots of
Nature essentially good for hunting things of that like but I I really do like it here
I really do like it, but I am glad that my job doesn't tie me down to a physical location
so I do have the ability to um
You know move if I need to
If you could move where would you go? Yes, I don't know probably somewhere out west
I really like the west. Um, like the climate the deserts the dry heat and the the proper winter
But you wouldn't go like directly west coast to like washington. No, no, no, no, no, no california
I'm talking about like nevada colorado new mexico arizona who live in silicon valley
Love it there. No, I don't want to go to silicon valley
Poop town poop town. I don't want to go to poop town and catch the fucking bubonic play
Fucking ridiculous if that's a thing again
Uh, yeah, um, I know a lot of people that do wind up going to arizona. I think my brother is um
he's either going to arizona or
Maine I think that's pretty far east
So I don't know but he it was one of the two seems like a lot of friends like kind of like going arizona
So we'll see I know when we went to we went to washington d.c
for about a week or so on a on a vacation and
To get to d.c. We didn't we didn't stay in d.c. We stayed in like alexandria or something like that
Um, a little a little basically a suburb outside of it and we would take the subway and the subway's new to me
It's first time i'd ever been in a subway
um, because we don't have subways here
and
You know the commute system and getting to working back and
Like I don't know if like I it's a it's one of those towns and cities
It's a great place to visit but jesus. I would not want to live there, you know
Yeah, I uh, I actually used to live in uh, arkansas for about a year and a half and I used to live in uh,
Cabot
And I used to work in north little rock. Yeah
Yeah, I used to work in north little rock
That's where I live. Yeah
Oh
It's nice. I really do like it. It's it's a good scale a lot of a lot of stuff
It's it's growing fast though. A lot of buildings going up, especially uh cow button
Uh conway and here and uh here in little rock north of rock a lot of buildings going up a lot of
Residences getting built. They're building apartments like crazy
But it's really good to see the downtown has gotten a whole lot better
They've dumped a lot of money into making it nice and people walk around and it's it's really nice
I really do like it. Did they kind of um
Did they kind of keep the crime problem down a little bit? I know crime was pretty bad last time. I was working there
Um, yeah, I think so. I don't hear that. It's uh, really that bad. I know downtown especially there's a lot
There's a lot of people out and about now. They've done a lot to
Re you know tore down old buildings built new ones did a lot of improvements to sidewalks and just basic
Pedestrian infrastructure. I guess you could call it better parking lighting stuff like that
Good shit
Yeah, I like it. Yeah, it's it's good to go down there
I know when I was a kid it was kind of kind of dumpy when I was like really really young
But now it's quite nice
Good. Yeah, when I left seattle, I went straight to arkansas as much as like, you know, arkansas had its own like
Issues, I guess it was far fucking better than seattle ever was so I was like, yeah, i'll take it
Thanks. Yeah in arkansas. You want to buy a car won't cost you anything. You want to live somewhere won't cost you anything
exactly
You want to commute sure like the only time there's traffic is when everyone goes to work
And when everyone comes back and that lasts for not very long at all
one of the big problems I had though was like at one point, um
I rear-ended somebody whoopsie doodle and uh
my uh
My car car got fucked up
So in the meantime when I was trying to get it fixed up public transportation is pretty much nil when going to a cabot to
Yeah
Yeah, because over here pretty much everyone's just uses a car
Yeah, exactly. And I didn't have one yet. I had to fix mine first
In that game that that uh that caused problems
I'm a bit of a tangent there. I just I don't know. I just kind of had fun just talking about
Places, I don't I don't actually I don't talk about
Don't talk about it all that much little throw rock can be pretty bad. Yeah, it can be it depends where you go
Like the the area that I live in is like man
It's you know, everyone a lot of people know each other and it's a really nice place and there's no issues
but yeah
Depends where you go, but I really like it
I like living here
very well
Happy birthday miaolas. Well, thank you. Yeah
Hi rags
Okay, look up. Damon q laba avoid images
Damon q laba. Yeah
I have no idea
Post that into the chat. So I know
I can't
Thank you
Oh, okay. Yeah, i'll uh, i'll take a look
Um straight for the images speaking of themes. I love how all these theme clinging fuck wass
Yeah, i'm saying it that way because it sounds funnier
Conveniently forgot that defense when they try and run joker through the wringer. Oh, yeah, you can't talk about joker's themes because joker's bad
And all I like is so themes don't actually they probably just argue that there's bad themes in it
Evil themes. Yeah, but the themes are bad. Yeah
You can't you can have good themes and bad themes the evil themes in this movie. They teach you evilness
Um another 18 hour efap my massives I don't think so I think we'll probably reach around to seven hours wonderful
I think that's what we're aiming for. We need it there angry joe gave captain marvel a seven out of ten claimed brie had emotions
For spoilers of end game and he and friends complained. She wasn't there enough
Wow, really
I mean, okay
So being completely honest here, like we've said this before I think but just angry joe and movie reviews
They just don't mix angry joe cannot review movies. Just know how
It's worthless to me. I'm gonna have to look at his joker review now because yeah
Honestly, I like to just like it's starting to uh, it looks like we might be covered that next week
I'm gonna check it out and see what he says if he's if he's pure tism like oh
It's exciting
Because like I i'm interested in talking about joker who once uh rags has seen it as well. Like it'll be fun. Yeah
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah more like gonna be a short stream today chat. How dare you ingretta voice? Oh
How dare you how dare you
Well, if you can't go to sleep in the middle of an efap, then it's got to be considered short
Also, hi mauler. You could go to sleep in between the seven hour stretch. Surely
surely
Did you know the first guided missiles used pigeons?
Did they what really did they I did not know the first guided missiles used pigeons
What do you mean they used pigeons? I don't know explain explain yourself
It's a super chat. I can't I can't make him go any further. He's
no more
Uh, well done for getting to super chats in the same stream looking forward to figure finding out high wags
Finding out how high wags became a thing
Happy day. Happy day. Oh, it'll be fun when you find it out in the in the in the archive version. It was good shit
duanc wagsman best wagsman also hi more more were we more low
Oh
You start making me say this uwu wags
uwu
Random try to fucking embrace it. I know I understand
Random tarantino movies ranked i've just now binged all of them having just gotten into watched a lot of movies
My top three number one is hollywood two is pulp fiction three is inglorious bastards
My top three would probably be reservoir dogs
kill bill one and
pulp fiction, I think
I'd
Did I remember?
I don't remember really caring for a man with the iron fists at all
What
Man with the iron fist wasn't that a quinton tarantino movie. I don't think so
No
I might what am I chat? Tell me what i'm confusing it for
Are you man in the iron mask? No man with the iron fists
I've never heard of that. Yeah, um look yeah, yeah
Mate raza rza rza was raza. Okay raza rza i'm guessing that's a directed one of his friends one of his friends, okay
Rza that was who I was
Rza
So any of those
No, I like tingleri's bastards a lot I haven't seen hollywood, um
I
Let me see
I certainly it's been so long since i've seen pulp fiction like it's been so fucking long. I can barely remember it
I'd have to watch it again. That might be a bad thing
I'd say it's a good thing to re-experience a whole bunch of tisms
We could re-experience the tisms
I took it and threw it on the ground
Yes, that's a getting through it on the ground
Rags how dare you miss my references
What which one uh, that was from
bad cuz bad
I'm gonna look references were bad. How about that?
Oh, he said my answer was 22 telephone poles an hour
Oh or the answer I don't I yeah, I don't I don't get the reference
Sorry, I don't get the reference after just look at chat a moment see if they know the reference that we've missed
Isn't real size of man's peepee
Inversely proportional to how often they brag about how big it is and wags keeps reminding us about his every effab
Well a lot of people bring it up. Also, that's not true at all
No, if you got a dick like mine, you'd be fucking proud of it
He he brings it up all the time. It does. It just comes up in conversation
Uh buenos das l rags
Hey buenos das
Have you played fire emblem three houses? If not, you should
I haven't I just played fire emblem one and two, I think on emulators and then like sacred stones or something like that
I forget. It's been ages. It was a long time ago
Played him on an old macbook of mine years ago
Um, also I enjoyed them they were fun. I like them. It was the maths question
People some people in chat said that would make oh the math question 22 telephone poles an hour
why because the answer always seems like it's completely irrelevant to
Like what what the setup is maybe I honestly i'm a little bit lost in the whole thing
Um
Well, have you seen weekend warriors far from home video if so thoughts I have I disagree with him on a couple things
I'd go into more detail
But i'm pretty sure i'm watching that film with rags tomorrow finally so I can talk right in front of him without ruining things
um
I understand how he got to his his arguments
But I think there's a couple things he might want to consider and there was a cut
I think there's a couple top comments talking about it, too
Uh, he made some good criticisms. It was just a couple of
Things he was like criticizing the core relationship for something specific, which I thought was really silly. Uh
But I still love weekend warrior and he'll come back on efap guarantee. Yeah, I really like his uh, I I love
Previous videos. I really like him. I like he's got good timing
With his comedic humor. He's got he's got good timing down with it. I like his style in general
I like his tismy paint drawings. I love him like cute and silly and retarded and it's it's just it cuts right
Exactly what he's feeling at the time. That's all you really need. He doesn't fuck around
I feel like my time is like an efap
absolutely
Uh good stream, by the way. Thank you. Have you guys played lost in vivo?
I personally haven't but it seems like a solid horror game inspired by silent hill
Lost in vivo. No, I haven't. Yeah, let's tell some other games. I haven't played there. It's somewhere on my wish list
Maybe because it's spooky spooky tober. I can I can finally delve into my horror games. Oh god
I found efap movie four on efap.me get f'd youtube. Uh, yeah kubikins has got a vision of it
That's available until it gets sorted out on youtube. Uh, it shouldn't be too much longer for the quote unquote official vision
Um, yeah, you can find that there for now
Um, but like I said, it should be less than a week
Hopefully before I get it back up and more stuff will be on the way. Just it's just zephyr zephyr the worst
um
Any idea when the tea saw any idea when the tea sargon will come on? No, it's ar sargon
Oh, that makes sense. You don't know about the sars. Oh, I know about the stars, but I thought the yeah
So when I saw it as a whole word, I didn't read it a saw when you saw it saw it
I I need you know to push me in the direction
You got to get me there. I don't I don't know all these things ultimately. What am I some kind of jeepers?
No
Never are you the jeepers been
Any idea when the sargon will come on no idea when could be next efap could be the next 10 could be the next 100
I really don't actually know these things but yeah, I do intend to make it happen
Uh god help us now. There's a legion of ra
I mean there's about three so far, but you know, it's still it's still more than none
So yeah, we should probably be concerned that there's a growing legion. Sure
um
More the project pigeon was an actual attempt to train pigeons to basically pack at controls in the nose cone of a missile
To guide the missile to a target. It was never deployed
Oh my goodness, let me get to world war one that sounds like a that so sounds like a world war one thing
The world war where we're trying to figure everything out
Like I don't know. I just get the fucking pigeons
Pigeons seem to know what they're doing
I don't actually know if it's world war one. It would be that sounds like a very world war
World war one thing to do
Uh, hi ragolds. Your videos have kept my mind busy and I want to say thank you
I'm glad
Uh mueller. Happy birthday. Hope you have a good day being a long man or longer, man
Thank you, please split this time between you and ragalds
shall be done
uh
Pen15 I think I know what they were trying to say
I remember the pen 15 club I have been little did I know that one day I would truly become a member of the pen 15
Uh tonal's audio quotes from today up on the website happy pith table
Uh, hi wags at lick daspo
lick daspo
All your vids make life that little bit better oh
Uh, yeah, apparently the audio quotes from tonald are already on the efap.me website. So, um, wow
Have fun exploring that it's a it's so much content on that website now that you you can pretty much just get lost in there
For a day or so just living around all the different little things
Uh, happy birthday you massives. Oh, sorry. Happy birthday. You massives have been such an inspiration to me
I finally got a free tool. I'd like you know, like happy birthday you massive. It just makes sense
It does
Um
You've been such an inspiration to me. I finally got out of retail work. Hi rags. Oh
Oh, hello. Glad you got out of retail. Yeah, I'm just glad you got out of anything that you didn't enjoy
No matter what it is. There are some people out there and I bet they just hey just love working in retail
They're strange people, but i'm sure they exist
Yeah, I like to think that there are some retail jobs that are actually nice
And I like like fair and the management is like they take care of their workers. I like to think those exist
It was kind of nuts because I uh back when I was uh 18
I used to work at pet smart and um, well, okay
Wait, wait, wait before you go any further. I have to ask because you worked there. Is it pet smart or pets mart?
Uh, we called it pets mart
Two words pets mart
So hey rags, that's how we win
Yeah, all right
He's like, oh my god, you killed it. No, no, no, I'm I I didn't my I didn't have a
You know, I didn't have a dog in that fight or a horse in that race, you know
Well, you know that they they kind of I guess I guess they kind of left it up to interpretation
But all well surely on the signs they're like red and blue signs. So they the s has to be one of the colors
sure and uh
Yeah, like I said, you know we we we said mart anyway, um
yeah, I had um
I had worked there for about I think it was like one and a half to two years
And then I quit and then there was this one guy
Like the the fish no, I love animals. I hated the customers that owned them, but you hate the animals
No, just their parents
But you don't understand. I think the humans were animals
Disgusting animals
So obvious
but um
I came back like years later
Like after I had long moved and everything I had come back like it was like six or seven years later visiting family for christmas
There was one guy still fucking working there. I'm like, what?
Six seven years later same guy that like the entire staff has changed but this dude. Wow
How do you how do you do it? How do you some people like that? They just won't let us won't leave
Yeah
So I mean if he was happy about it, he's just really passionate about working at pet smart
Yeah, he loves he loves him fishing lizards and stuff
It's sweet
wonderful
um two two different people interpreted my
What I said as me not being aware that there's such a thing as a bad retail place somehow
So when I said I like to think that there's a retail job out there. That's fair
The implication is I think currently that all retail jobs are on
I don't know why that was hard, but
Yeah, I thought so too but two different people had like
Like try working in a store for you with an entitled piss and hang it over your head
And someone else said like it's very optimistic imagination. You have it's like, why did you think that?
Whatever. I forget if I've shared horrible retail stories on ifa, but you know
We had maybe they didn't see those hours because that's since it was at the end of uh, one of the longer episodes
Did you work?
Did you work on real gamer hours?
real
authentic general
actual
actual
genuine
genuine hours
uh
tangible hours
Traffic in the bay area is 5 a.m to 10 a.m
And 2 p.m to 7 p.m. Oof man, that's fucking crazy. How do people do that?
That's nuts
Oh, this one just says y'all right
Yes, yeah, right
Okay, is everybody here? Okay, that's bullshit rags. Oh, okay. We're magical sir. Excellent. I'm quite. Okay. Wonderful
Uh rags is my wife rags
rags is my wagfu
My wagfu hi rags
Hello
Well, I need a 25 foot 10. You have one hour. That's a good reference. I guess I did tell I I know that reference
I know that reference. That was like the one one good customer
Would never happen again
Uh rlm released a joker review j thinks it's sloopy
It's sloppy i'm guessing and the film doesn't know what to do with its themes i'm very angry right now. Oh, no
Not to do with its themes. I'm gonna have to watch that next. Oh, no
Okay, well, yeah, i'll be watching that soon, please rlm don't don't don't it's like the one good movie we've had this year
There's been maybe a few more but still
Uh, how about dark souls 2 for efap gaming?
I don't know how that would work and the game is like 50 hours
especially for someone who hasn't played it before so
And why would I want rags to play dark souls 2 like why?
Like that
Why can't you play something? Yeah, I've heard so many things. Yeah, many of them are good
Uh another efap now i've got another seven hours of content to get through while still having episode 55 to finish
well
You have a week. I guess we'll be back then. Um, i'm probably going to be doing a full joker episode I guess
Uh pigeon missiles were tests done in world war ii they also tested using bats as indirect incendiary bombs
By they I mean usa rags stop killing me in games
Bats rags
Oh, wait, did I say bats? Oh, oh, yeah, I did say bats about they tested using bats as indirect incendiary bombs
That's inventive. I mean also, what is this person's name? Uh, og, mema
og, memer
Stop killing him at video games. I don't know. Maybe we've met
Someone the legend of ra needs to grow who wants to join
He's recruiting he's building a cult and we're gonna get blamed for this
I know. Um
All right. Well, uh, the I was gonna say that there's gonna be probably some extra memes
I'm gonna collect them up. We'll we'll definitely do them. I've got a whole bunch of a couple videos and
A whole bunch of pictures aren't we stuff? Um, we'll we'll find a place for sure
Uh, I hope you guys enjoyed we shall return
like I said, it's pretty much a guarantee it'll be sunday and it's probably gonna be called the joker one or something because
Seems like everything's gearing up to talk about the joker film. Um
I've got that that witter thread that's hilarious. I've got we got the angry joe thing
We're gonna want to talk about it ourselves and
Well, I mean i'll check out the rlm video. I'm sure it's okay
That's fine. We're gonna go we're gonna get pretty spoilery
So if you haven't seen the joker movie, please do that this week. Yes, go see it go see it ahead of time
It'll be great. I swear. Uh
But yeah, that's about it. Thank you very much for all of the the the watchies and the the the
Generous very generous donations and the wonderful memes. I hope you had uh,
Let your fun. Thank you to um, mr
Gigi for coming on as guest and of course, oh, yes, absolutely you too. Uh, it's it's been wonderful once again
That's bullshit and and rags. This is uh, you've guessed it a whole bunch of times now. I'm starting to think like yeah
I'm something you know, i'm just glad that I i'm glad that you enjoy my company enough company enough to be like, you know
I think we'll uh, we'll have them on again. Some people like why don't you cycle the guests on again?
And i'm like don't you think it's cruel to take?
Rags away from people. What do you think? That's that's kind of my don't deny people their rags. Yeah, and don't deny rags
But um, yeah, thank you for the birthday wishes as well. It's very very kind of all of you
We shall see you soon next time as you say
And for us for me fab that is good night
And good good night everybody
Good night. Absolutely
