There we are, live as a bird.
We're live as a bird.
And such a like impromptu, just, yeah, we're doing nefap guys.
We are standing like a lemon.
A lemon, sir.
That's a Futurama reference that you're not going to get because you guys don't watch
good stuff.
Correct.
We do not watch good stuff.
I watch Futurama when I'm high and it makes the experience so much funnier.
That's your opinion.
Subjectively.
It's your opinion that you're high.
Subjectively the best.
It's your opinion that you have an opinion.
What's the time for you?
It is 4.28 AM.
It is a time where you're not supposed to be up as a human, but fuck it.
What's the time for everyone else?
It's the time when Sargon streams.
Is it?
Yeah, it depends on when his last bad stream was.
Oof.
I mean, muting the opening 20 minutes, that was genuinely like, I would have thought something
would be able to get through to him, but I guess he had like all notifications off.
The thing is, you know, when you have like OBS, whatever, you can see the levels moving
when you talk, like the audio as if the program is receiving, you know, I wonder if he even
had that on.
Yeah.
Poor guy.
Good news.
Everyone probably uses X split.
I think he does actually.
I'm not sure.
I remember mentioning that and I was just like, isn't X split the one you have to pay
for?
Oh.
That's, I mean, you know, I'm just saying.
I'm not saying it's not saying it's, you know, better or worse than OBS, but I mean,
if you're going to have to pay for it, it's it's worse.
That's like your opinion.
I tried using that split once.
No, X was objectively worse.
I tried using it once.
It was a piece of shit.
OBS effectively has less letters.
Really hard to get off your computer to a per level quality basis.
It is better because it, it is, it is a better quality product with less letters.
This is true.
Like, for example, a new hope is better than the last Jedi mainly because it's a.
And down with thrust.
Oh, Wolf is really loud.
Okay.
I can sort that out.
That's fine.
It's actually.
I'm loud.
Turn down the mic.
It's great that someone's too loud.
That's a great problem to have because it's always that everybody can turn you down.
Yeah.
You can't turn me off.
People always tell you that your streams are too low because you're technologically
illiterate.
They are so low.
I don't know what technological is, so I have to disagree.
It's the mission.
Is that is that the technical hell or the literal hell or the biblical?
It's the metaphorical hell.
It's the figurative.
Hell.
It's the mythosist.
Hell.
I saw one of the comments about that was just like when he says literal hell is he referring
to the Christian one or over all the other derivations of that?
Yeah, because.
Yeah, because it's not real.
So the literal like the literal that means it could be literally figurative.
Yeah.
And that's why it's confusing.
Figuratively literal.
Because it's a literal interpretation of something doesn't he didn't he use the word biblical
at one point?
That was the interesting part.
I can't remember.
I know that he said a lot of words like, wait, wait, yes.
This is this is crazy for a lot of people considering the whole 4 30 a.m. thing.
So any of my British fans will just be like, why?
Why are you doing this?
I'll be like, I don't even know what time it is here.
See, what time is for me?
It's 1032 pum 1132 for me, boy.
1130.
It's not bad.
Yeah, that's not terrible.
Why does it say I'm still playing killing floor?
Because you're still playing killing floor.
I'm not.
I'm trying to find.
No.
I have the option to play it on Steam, even though it says I'm already playing it.
So wags, have you actually seen Black Panther bits and pieces?
I've seen a lot of clips and stuff, but no, I haven't.
I haven't sat down and watched the whole fucking thing from start to finish.
You know, bless your soul because everything everything that I've seen has been a lot of
the arguments are concepts, so you'll be able to just run with it as soon as you get the
information.
Oh, good.
But I like concepts.
People enjoy these ones because they arguably get to the point of policy or at least a lot
of people seem to think it does because, you know, I'm automatically like a crazy point
of policy.
I mean, a lot of people extrapolate from my Black Panther video that I am coming from
a place of like, well, it's that plus this element of like the policy to try and overthrow
your I don't even know, man.
I just find it funny that I look through the comments and I could still find someone
shitting on me there.
Oh, yeah.
It's awesome.
It's very strange that I mean, you can't just make a review anymore.
I don't care.
If you're a white guy and you said something to go racial.
Oh, you're right.
Yeah.
I slant to it.
If you said something mad about the black movie, then you're a bad person.
I mean, this is the thing, like, I'm OK.
We've criticized my favorite criticism.
My favorite angle is like you fucked up, guys.
But anyway.
Yeah.
So Opus.
Um, with the conversations or something's definitely wrong for me, dude, my discord
literally says I don't know.
I don't want all.
They would almost be.
Well, you figure that out.
I'll find one more.
Well, Opa Ben's in the chat.
Oh, boy.
Hey, what's this?
What's this peach Bowser thing that I keep seeing everywhere?
This peach Bowser with the black dress.
Can you send me a picture?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Yeah, I'm sure I can scroll around and find it, but I keep seeing a picture of.
Like Peach and Bowser kind of mixed together here,
here in the discord, stuff like that.
Yes, I can.
Oh, OK. I think I think I'm back now.
I have not seen that, but that's that's.
It's like a Bowser peach thingy.
That's fucking weird.
Why? Why is this a thing?
I was at chat.
Is everything normal?
I mean, for Christ's sake, I can't seem to have at least one stream
without an internet fucker.
Oh, God, Bowsette Bowsette.
That's what people are saying in the chat.
All right.
Clearly, the clearly the bastard love child
of Peach and Bowser.
Yeah, I apparently dropped frames, but now it's all good.
It should be all good.
Just let me know if I start, you know, flipping out or something.
But if we're all good, are we good to go with this video?
Is there anything else we wanted to say or do we need?
We need the Browns.
I need we do need the Browns.
I don't know. We also need a lot of take.
I'll take a single brown.
We can't have two brown.
That's going to.
That's true for me.
Does have the funnier laugh because then they start getting bold
when you know, if if he's available, I say chuck him on
because he hasn't actually been on an eFap before.
You got to get a bit bad.
Well, hey, I mean, it's the experience.
I had a foursome, but rags didn't come on last time.
I wish I had like a constantly updating internet connection thing.
So I don't even know if I'm actually still connected or not.
It's frustrating.
OK, frustrating.
Are you on Mueller or Mueller?
Oh, I'm all.
Oh, but it says it says video output low.
YouTube is not receiving enough video to maintain smooth streaming.
That's good.
It says you're live right now.
I'm looking at the stream.
It's a it lowered to pretty incredibly fuzzy quality.
Hmm. Yeah, it looks like it's
looks like it's good to me.
Any word on on on Fringy, by the way?
I'll shoot him a message of rags hasn't already.
I have not.
All right.
Both useless.
We're going to have to keep everyone busy with hoping
that my fucking stream, you know, I think this is stream health.
It's like it read right now.
And I'm just like, oh, no.
Get it a health pack.
The guy frauds are coming.
All right. I shot him a message.
We'll see. He's online, so he should take too long to apply.
Oh, he's he's typing.
Oh, shit. It's even.
Is he given?
He said yes.
I will bring him. Yes.
Bring him in. Go ahead.
Somebody can anyway.
OK, we got our brown.
We got.
Can we I'm going to read blue, green, orange.
All our powers unite to create Captain Asshole.
Earth, water, fire and air and heart.
Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony.
But then the downward thrust attack.
Stream health is back to green.
High five, guys.
Hooray. You did it, Fringy.
And then he leaves and he's gone.
He's gone, Fringy, please.
No, he came.
He heard Princess Peach in the comic that Bowser is from is Bowser
taking the power up.
It is not apparently the bastard love child of one of Peach
and Bowser's many sexual.
What would you say?
And I would say you could say encounters, though.
Really, I think I'm not going to say rape because you don't
you don't get captured that many times before.
I think I think she knows what she's I think I think she knows what she's doing.
She's on board with the idea. She's on board.
Oh, no, I'm rescued again.
She wants to see if she can take that giant turtle.
I'll bet she can.
By now, everyone's saying, oh, yeah, are we down?
This is trying to fix the stream.
We'll keep talking about Peach fucking Bowser.
I think at first he just like squeeze it in between her thighs.
You know, maybe they're saying F for each.
I don't know. Oh, they're saying he's back.
All right. They were saying F for Fringy.
Oh, there you go.
They're saying F for fuck Bowser.
So anyway, hey, Fringy, we're going to be assaulting the idea
that me and Wolf are racist and we figured we needed someone to,
you know, back up these claims.
It was like, you know, it is interesting how there's a correlation
between people I associate with on the internet who get accused of being racist.
Maybe you're the problem, Fringy.
Maybe you exude racism and we soak it up.
I yes, I mean, I do hate myself.
So that might explain a lot.
Much like our white skin absorbs vitamin D.
So, too, does it absorb all of the racism from around us?
Yes. We thought it was a little too pale in here.
So we needed to get a token brown for us to make sure that people couldn't
accuse us of being racist.
And hey, Fringy, have you seen Black Panther?
I think you have.
Oh, you know what?
Maybe.
Maybe it was forgettable.
So because, yes, it was the way we what we've got is, oh, wait,
I'm going to give a fuck.
I didn't give you guys the link.
That's pretty retarded, isn't it?
Yeah, I just I think I just heard the link on the street.
Can they see the whole thing?
No, they can't.
You guys still can't get in here.
We're OK.
I haven't given everyone the link to the watch together.
I see you've learned from Rags mistakes when he will just display it
in a way, you know, there was there used to be a time where I made that error
and I have learned from those mistakes.
And now it doesn't happen because I have templates.
And yeah, that's what things of that nature.
Yeah, you put an overlay so that people can't see like, like I have book.
Yeah. The window doesn't see the covers of that bar.
It zooms in. And yeah, that's right.
Oh, yeah.
So I've only got one guy joined so far.
What's what's going on? Other two.
I'm on the two. Where are you?
Yeah, I'm the two of the one.
All right. All right.
What is this?
Everything wrong with Black Panther?
An unbridled rage.
So what did someone in the chat put down?
Is Fringy a and then it's a black smiley face.
I didn't know that existed either.
I didn't know either. It's a.
It's funny.
It's just funny.
So, yeah, in in me and Walt's videos, we were very critical of the Black Panther
film, which was a huge cultural boon to the black community for some reason.
But we didn't actually necessarily.
I mean, I'm not going to speak entirely for wealth.
I can't remember his video exactly, but I made a point to not make it about race
whatsoever. I was like, that's kind of the point.
Well, I think I think it's just smart not to do that, because even if you make a
joke, people will assume that you're being racist.
Oh, I made many a joke and I had racism.
Yeah, and I was telling Mueller like before I posted the video,
like I cut out like a good minute and a half of from the beginning
because I was like, wait, maybe this is crossing a line.
Maybe I shouldn't.
Yeah. Yeah, sometimes just inviting controversy at that point.
Yeah, I was perhaps a tad bit too against the Browns.
And so right.
OK, yeah, I can see why.
So people keep spamming that black face in the chat.
I'm just fucking laughing every time I see it.
How long did we take to actually make our videos?
It was like a week, right?
At most. It wasn't too long.
I think it was probably like four days or something like that,
because it was quick, is what I'm saying.
It's not like me and you.
I know that we were we released them at the exact same time,
but I don't think we finished.
Yeah, yeah, that was it.
I think I took a few extra days to get mine ready.
And then we it was like a cross promotion thing.
So it's just a little bit fun.
But obviously it was the worst idea ever because it makes us
the most horrible people on the planet.
Yeah, like so what I'm trying to say with this is that there probably will be things
that me and Wolf may or may not get wrong because of the fact that they are
reactionary reviews.
They don't get to another excuse.
I'm just saying that that should explain it.
But this guy's obviously had months now to have watched the film.
Right. So he's got no excuse.
And I mean, look at this fancy disclaimer here.
You know that this guy spent a long time on this.
I mean, I was going to say, by the way, no, no hate to this guy, of course,
just like every single person we ever cover.
I'm curious about all the lore that's been written in
like is like T.L.J.
You know, all that stuff that they write in around the movie since it.
They will. There's a lot of this thing in appearance.
You have to make.
I already had that on a lot of the comments, but
yeah, like, you know, he's even had access for all we know to like
audio commentaries and interviews and stuff.
So it'll be the kind of thing where me and Wolf did not have the benefit of that.
We didn't get to do it all.
So I would expect us to make mistakes.
But is that fair to pull from audio commentary
where he might explain something that's not apparent in the film?
Oh, well, it would depend on context.
Obviously, well, I'm just thinking of I had a discussion about the
the hyperspace thing for The Last Jedi and people started
citing the novelization of the film and the novel
that tries to fix the problems of the film.
Well, that's that's exactly that's exactly it, isn't it, though?
It was written after the fact to try and fix it.
But yeah, there's already comments in his video
that will probably I'll probably like paste my favorite one to Rags
so you can read it out at the end of the video.
But like I'm being called a white supremacist, which is
Oh, really? Interesting for me.
That's a first.
Well, of course, they reference to me in the comments of that video.
So they already know two of us are friends.
And if you're friends with me, you know, you're clearly a Nazi.
And yeah, so this is an opportunity for us to clear the record,
to take some criticism, because, you know, me and Wolf may have gotten things wrong.
Not that this is about him anyway, or geez, I don't know.
To to to dispel this idea that we want the white race to take over the world.
That's not really what we're about.
But, you know, I can see how you make that mistake
when I literally just talk about inconsistencies in a film script.
That's fair enough. And to make sure that you flag this video
for criticizing you and then you can show up on the kill stream later and lie about it.
So, yeah, as as this guy, by the way, I've actually said I wouldn't
I'd be up for speaking to him and he was like, OK, cool.
He's apparently making a part two as well.
But I may as well just see what part one has in store for us.
OK, so here we go. If everyone's ready.
Man, I was hoping for that one guy, that creature, as you called him,
to make his video on me.
Is he still not done that?
No, I was really disappointed, too.
I wanted to cover that on the last podcast, but he hadn't made it yet.
Damn, you got there, though.
Well, well, come on, creature.
Disclaimer, this YouTube series exists to fight the corner of movies,
not as a personal attack on the book criticizing them.
Please don't go and send hate to any of the people I personally attacked.
Unless it's in this comment section, this is just mine.
Seeing this guy's videos popping up in my recommended a lot recently.
You should watch him more.
You might learn something formula when it comes to getting attention
for his film criticisms, releasing them before anyone else does.
Unlike the citizens, why?
That's inaccurate.
I'm usually pretty late with the film review to everyone.
You realize that Mueller has been working on a 15 hour series on The Horse Awakens,
a movie that came out three and a half years ago, right?
I think it's two and a half.
2015, right? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Two and I would have never raised that.
Your secret is to get your stuff out first.
And besides even my rage videos, they're always like later
than the majority of the initial.
Yeah, because a lot of people get the reviews before the film comes out.
You know, press, you're not press, so you don't get to do that.
I mean, we were just saying that I finished editing my review
like two days before you did.
Yeah, and I had to delay wolf because let me finish my.
But I'm early in relation to people who come out a year later, I suppose.
Like, but I'm not exactly a critic.
Yeah, your your unbridled rage was on December 20th.
Let me see. When did you?
I want to see when our videos on The Last Jedi came out,
TLJ, unbridled rage that came out on.
So this was five days after it released.
That's oh, well, that's still late.
That's yeah, that's five days after the movie came out.
So was it maybe it was just good and funny?
You're your last Jedi video came out two days after mine as well.
Yeah, there you go.
I mean, that's the thing.
Waltz was the faster one because the ones take longer to make
than your average ones as well.
So I don't see how this statement makes sense.
You've made reviews weeks and months after the films come out.
Well, this is the first thing you say is wrong.
Hey, man, he's probably trying.
He's just it's OK.
We'll just let this one slide. It's fine.
I like and what it is.
What's interesting, though, is it's it's it's interesting
that he instantly goes to the reason that he's popular
is because he releases his videos at a certain time.
Look at that.
I released my Black Panther one 10 days after Black Panther came out.
That's quite a while.
That's not. Yeah, that's more than a week.
That's a week and a half.
And he's using this as evidence that I'm really quick.
That's interesting.
Releasing them before anyone else does.
Yeah, that's what I said.
Hold on. You're getting recommended and you're popular
because of the timing of your videos.
He's not even giving you the benefit of the doubt
that you make good content.
Let's see. What did Chris Stuckman post to his review?
Oh, what do you know day or two days after the movie came out?
Yeah, Stuckman and Jeremy Johnston, they're often reduced by embargoes.
That's usually their problem that they can't release before an embargo.
Me and Wolf don't have that problem
because we'll always never be early enough to actually hit an embargo.
Your your movie Sucks released it two days after you did for the Last Jedi.
I mean, I didn't even watch it until like a day or two after it came out.
I think Mueller watched it before I did because I wasn't initially interested in it.
But I was so surprised by how bad it was.
And then I decided to watch it after you told me how bad it was.
And then I was like, well, I guess I should make a video.
I was the blossoming friendship.
I like how that's because he recommended I go watch the Predator.
And I'm not sure I wanted, but he wants me to see it.
I just want to make sure we're clear on whatever reference
he's having to cinema scenes here.
I hope I hope he's not connected to them, please.
Film criticism releasing them before anyone else does.
Oh, oh, it's nitpicking.
You're just nitpicking all whenever you point out writing characters in.
Inconsistency now, I mean, I don't catch it.
Well, dude, let me just see what he says.
I'm just curious releasing them before everyone else does unlike the cinema here. Let me let me let me go back
Let me scoot it back so we can get the thing here
I was my birthday does unlike the cinema sins approach of going through the film nitpicking every tiny detail or the Yorkshire approach of
Racism more likes to system. Oh
He's saying I'm not oh good
Excellent good good. Yeah, we're okay. We're all good. Yeah. Good. Excellent. Excellent. Very good
We do try and get the context guys. I know a lot of people hate that we skip over contours
Like I'm trying we got to get these statements one at a time
Yeah
Yeah
Pointing out things that he considers to be genuine plot holes or at least things that don't seem like they've been that well thought through
But speaking of things that don't seem like they've been that well thought through loads of these criticisms are fairly easy to explain
If you just think about them
So today you see mauler maybe if you just thought for once in your miserable life
All right, it's a strong claim. Maybe he's right. Maybe we didn't think about it. Okay, gosh
Yeah, you just assume you're so smart on your bunch of supremacists
So black panther was too many s's pretty well by critics and audiences alike critics seem to like it the most I don't care
Yeah, I was gonna say like yeah, I know right. I'm not sure why he's bringing this up like yeah
I I did as much as this film was politicized and people were attacked for not giving it good scores
Yeah, I don't give a shit
Realize this is the same movie that people gave shit for for getting a 99%
Before it came out. Yeah, the guy who criticized it said he wasn't enough fight scenes or whatever people were like how fucking dare you
Yeah, the guy who ruined its one. He's wrong. Actually like it doesn't have very good action
I'm just gonna say that right now
Like I don't think it's very well choreographed especially that final fight when they're in the train and it looks like a ps2 game
That's in salt in the ps2 that just means it's a class or as battlefront 2 was a fucking classic
Well, no, I yeah, no exactly. It just it wasn't good
It just didn't look that good considering how much money it costs to make, you know
Like visuals very very subjective stuff, but like, you know that awful ps2 CGI fight they have is the two black pad
Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Oh, it's terrible. It looks legitimately bad
Hideous those hideous rhinos. They put a large portion of that scene on YouTube. It was like, oh
It looks worse than the fights in the Sam Raimi spider-man movies
You know where they had the falling shots like it looks very similar to that really was with Toby McGuire. Yeah
Yeah, you know I was about to mention that. Yeah, it does look worse than those old spider-man does
You know, you look at the one with Doc Ock and actually holds up really well
There's a lot of comments about how they were they were rushed because they wanted to they needed to work on Infinity War
Which I was like, oh, well that makes sense. That doesn't make it better
Don't rush your movies
Especially when you've got finite studios that do VFX and aren't they talking about doing like X-Men stuff?
I guess so. I guess so post-phase three
Fantastic like CGI companies. They're just gonna be constantly doing Marvel films
Well, next one especially with the cosmic stuff. Well, I think it's just more the issue is that every film at this point
Like basically any film with a budget in excess of 50 million dollars has VFX in it in some shape or form
Yeah, even like the cause of VFX. It's a shame too because
Earlier on a few days ago
I was with some people on my server and we watched No Country for Oldman and then I watched the the witch and
Both of those were all almost entirely practical effects and you know, look great and they were in both amazing movies
Yeah, you don't need the observation we made when watching aliens by aliens looks pretty good. Oh, yeah, man
I can't wait for the new X-Men movies
I can't wait for Wolverine to be reprised by the legend himself Michael Cera
Come on
Wait, we need a Michael Cera Wolverine
Professor X
Imagine you get a message from yourself in five years from now saying Michael Cera does
Reprise the Wolverine and it's incredibly it likes the best before which you've ever seen you just be like no
I
Think I'd lose my mind if that was the case. Do you want to keep watching the video? Oh, of course
We'll see what point you're making about
Was a movie received pretty well by critics and audience look at those screaming people like it the most really it's
I mean, I loved it
There's not a huge disconnect between audience and critics cause though
But it seems all of these people have just been blind to the fact that in actuality the movie is a garbled mess
Well, that can happen. I mean, I'm not yeah, it does happen
I've been I've been blind to how much a massive film. Yeah. Yeah. I look at the reviews for Bioshock infinite
That's a good example be you know, I'm completely honest here
I didn't quite see the the problems with force awakens until I started watching videos breaking it down. I was like, oh
You know, I like black panther a little bit, you know when I first saw it
I kind of liked it at first, but then when I started thinking about it, you know green. Yes
Yeah, I
I know what he's trying to imply it's like me, you know me and wolf or let's just say me being like I I can tell
You the truth you guys can't see but I don't think I ever say anything like that. I mean, this is just an appealing to
popularity
Bullshit and it's like I don't care. Yeah, I don't care if
97% of critics liked it. Most critics don't know what the fuck they're talking about and the audience I I mean
Just because it's 79% doesn't mean it's a great movie
Sorry
The gray
Wasn't very well liked when it came out and now it's got a pretty good cult following
on your podcast and we like
Films that came out that did badly but have later done really well. So like another example is predator
Predator wasn't well received when it came out. We've mentioned the thing the thing did really badly when it came out, but it's like
A lot of really good movies
This is why the there's not much I've never really taken
Aggregate review site seriously, it is interesting to be like, oh by the way, this one got a hundred percent
You'd be like, oh wow, really? Why and then you find out why and you're like, oh
And then you never go back to the fucking aggregate sites
But yeah, it's probably worth pointing out though that like rotten tomatoes is not a good
It's like it's not about the actual score that it was a sign that how many were positive and negative
So yeah, if anyone uses rotten tomatoes to cite if a movie was good or not their opinion doesn't matter
Well, I mean, I'm sorry that you're so stupid if that's all they've got like yeah, their opinion doesn't matter
If you're citing this site this site that has the absolute most flawed reasoning for if a movie is good or not
Then I'm sorry, you're dumb
So the the tomato meter for the predator is at 34%
Yeah, I think that's about where it should be good stuff
Congratulations aggregate site, but uh, all right, it's higher than the nun
Let's let him get to an actual point instead of Shawshank Redemption into the box office
Our Blade Runner, yeah
That's true
There's not a huge disconnect between audience and critics scores though
But it seems all of these people have just been blind to the fact that in actuality the movie is a garbled mess full of anger
Reducing plot holes poorly executed writing and it isn't I mean as always it's fine if you dislike the movie your complaints about it should be
Accurate, you know, I feel like that's a good thing to strive for
All right. Okay, let's get this over with you want to tell us there opens with a neat animation
Explaining the history of Wakanda the country that Black Panther protects
So since this video was edited and released before the DVD release of Black Panther
It's made up almost entirely of bootleg screen caps from cinema screenings of it
Which is I'm glad you were able to figure that out. Let's try to get the aspect ratio, right on the mo
The aspect ratio is the reason I zoom in on these things or you'll find I have little blocks
For the predator one is because they have sites that are added advertised on it
And I have no idea if they're harmful or not
So I block them out and in the Black Panther one
I just zoom in so I can avoid it and obviously yeah
I'm trying to use as little screenshots as possible
But I usually do this if it's a visual aid so I can get you guys to understand what I'm talking about when I describe
Like they have this weird opening cinematic. That's all done with sand like you remember that right guys like
And and they show a bunch of things and there's a couple of things they show that are relevant to some arguments
But yeah, but have you considered instead of editing?
Maybe talking about rotten tomatoes. I like how when it pays first. I like how he's uh, he goes with the whole
Maybe you should get things right and then his first
Like how about you address the actual points he makes rather than talk about something so fucking retarded and useless that it has
No right or reason to be in this video
Yeah, especially
Like
Congratulations, you were able to point out that it's bootleg footage
His points not even accurate because if you look at
The predator versus predator the aspect ratios are different and that's just that's the native aspect ratios
Dude, there are even films that have been released in cinemas where they flip between the aspect ratio during the film and stuff
I know transformers 5 transformers 5 was the pretty egregious example
Oh, yeah, because it was like both it was shot with both. I max
He literally pulled a Tommy Wiseau only Tommy Wiseau somehow made it more consistent
Yeah, so I guess the point is like maybe there was a reason why the aspect ratio was fucked as opposed to me deciding to
deliberately change the act like you know, there's
But it's a strange thing to
Yeah, yeah strange thing
Meteor hit the continent of Africa and said meteor was made entirely from vibranium
This pushed the people of Wakanda into the future far faster than any nation across the globe
One tribe took over another four and they essentially blocked themselves from the world as an isolated nation
Why the fuck would they stop at the arbitrary border of Wakanda back in the bloody stone age if they were?
Advancing immeasurably faster than any other nation across the world
How didn't they just naturally spill over Africa as a continent and potentially the world by nature of the tools?
They had the Wakandans are isolationists and this isn't ridiculous by any means
isolationist
Isolation. Well, why did they take over the other tribes if they're isolation? Yeah, they're isolationists. They only conquered four nations. I
Guess this isn't it like it other Wakandans all five tribes or was there a Wakandan tribe that took over?
I can't remember if they're specific
but the the the point would be that they chose to
combine the tribes into a
Singular thing as opposed to so they're not isolationists. Yeah, if they were isolationists, it would have been a single tribe
It's very strange that you know in you know, ancient Africa really an ancient anywhere
Where you had constant warfare and fighting and skirmishing and your resource
Competition and stuff that they would just say. All right, this is enough
Read chat so just said isolationist yet. They all speak English
I do want to mention one thing from someone in the chat. He said wolf is a hypocrite
He'll make fun of videos. They're talking about for someone for having no hair or skim milk
I don't just address the actual points either. Well, I don't preface it with saying
Maybe you should have got everything right by the way Patrick Willems change your hair
This is that's what this guy did. Well, maybe you should have got everything right by the way
It's covered this before there is a difference between an ad hominem and an insult
Like if Wolf's just throwing out an insult, that's that's his own deal
It is very clear that I wasn't talking about like I wasn't trying to say that Patrick Willems having a bad hairline makes his
Whole video bad. That's enough. That's not an actual point. I was making
A little bit of a difference and yeah, like this is gonna be a topic
So we may as well just talk about it now for the four of us perspectives on this
but if you rewind to Stone Age times or
Anywhere further between then and now and you have just an expanse of territory and you settle down with these five tribes
It's like what stops them from expanding. Why would they put up an arbitrary wall instead of actually going? Hey, there's some more grass over there
Oh this I mean look at just human history in general
All you maybe things every human
Maybe there's some over part of what calmed and lore for why they didn't do what any other anything would have done
Ever well, I guess I mean the only reason you wouldn't is if you had so many natural resources that there was no need to
But is that the case?
Brainy and but what about yes, but then it would be about culture and you know that kind of
Yeah, trade routes and that sort of thing I guess it's just that you can't think of many examples of
isolationist empires in the old days and by old days
I mean going back as far as you know, 10,000 years they would have to even if a even if a place is
isolated geographically
You know, it still doesn't just stay there and they usually still trade with people, you know
Like we generally still trade even if we don't expand
Yeah, maybe if the movie export like gave a good reason for them being isolationist
I mean, it's an important part of the story them being isolationist is kind of the crux of the narrative
So it does need to be explained and that's the thing is it's not a white versus black thing
It is a human thing that you have a bunch of people in your populace and you go
Oh, there's way more families now and we need more space for houses. We're gonna have to expand down the lower reach
Yeah, and I mean if this was if the meteor hit earth like that far back and they're like
Oh, we have this huge tool that can make us, you know, allow us to take over more tribes in more territory
Why wouldn't they do that at that point?
I mean, maybe you could make an argument if this was in modern day or even just like a hundred years ago
I guess we're so I mean sit a wolf that they have a system of trial by combat to determine leaders
So what would stop a warmongering angry dude taking over one time?
Sky to be a warmonger in what kind of history exactly. Yeah, that's because if you become the leader through combat
Then the person who becomes the leader and did so through combat
It are you telling me that every single person who again became leader through bloody, you know combat
Are you saying he's this an isolationist as well and we should just stay here and not expand
That's what they're all just really nice people in Wakanda
Is now when we catch up to them in the future but it's like at one point they weren't and then they became that and
It's so arbitrary
Well, you can tell that killmonger is the first warmonger because he's got monger in his name and he likes to kill people
So he's he's obviously the first it's just like thank God everybody in Wakanda grew up and said, yeah
Let's not go outside of Wakanda and then yeah, there's no one ever I don't want to live
I want to explore the world. I want to see the world
I want to you know, we actually know from the film that what's his it's it's the brother of Tachaka who actually wants to
Get Wakanda going outside of the world. That's like the point. So it begins
There's like oh, so he's the first one then he in the entire thousand years history. He's the first one
I mean, this is this is the problem that this guy has already fallen into that every one of the people that defends shitty movies
Like this always falls into is that they're writing the story for the writers and you can't
Can't do that
Like i'm sorry that the story sucks and you have to come up with ideas
To try and refute our points because it wouldn't even be that great if that was the case
Like if the story went and then they were isolationist forever
Every single king that ever took over was all in agreement that they should never go outside the border of Wakanda
If they just said that I would be like wow, they just couldn't be asked. Could they just gave up?
Just come up with some excuse it doesn't even have to be a great one
But just one at least don't just leave us and be like, okay. Well, that doesn't make any sense
Like even if your point didn't make sense
I mean at least you would try well
Might just be an instance of it being kind of a difficult concept to work with it's tough
It's tough because if you have an established world and you just tell us by the way
How would how would we reconcile Wakanda existing in our world and you're like, I guess they're isolationist and they had a big dome
That protects them from being seen or heard and you're like, but why how would that have worked?
How would that have happened? I mean somebody would have found them though
You know, there's lots of things that would have happened
They would have been found because somebody in Wakanda would have fucked up at some point. It's like a thousand years or two thousand
I don't even know like it's
It's ridiculous and it's really hard to believe and you could be like but it's comic books and i'd be like
Yeah, but there's some well-written comic stuff and some not so much
Depends on what we've got and obviously we're judging the film not the actual comic book
so
Um, oh and so I want to point out that um, if we keep pausing we're gonna miss the point of the video
We're taking it point by point
So i'm assuming the point of the video is to respond to me and then this made up of individual points
We're responding to a response to mauler's response to the movie. Exactly
Totally makes sense. But anyway, also mauler stop speaking in your british language because people are having a problem with you
Pronouncing it wakander
Wakanda
but they
Those are some of my gun trouble for I need to start speaking in my american accent because
A lot of people are assuming because i'm british that I have this idea that we should colonize everything which
I don't that's pretty good. That's pretty good. That's pretty good
Makes sense to me. Maybe not american because maybe they'll say americans colonized everything too. I'll be like, what do you want me to do?
Well, uh, well, you can uh, you can do a german accent and really channel that
Oh god, because he's jim who thinks that's normal. Why did sevakandas only stop at four countries?
They lack ambition
So anyway
Let's keep going isolationism is usually born out of the combination of xenophobia and pacifism or if not
pacifism xenophobia and pacifism
Okay, we'll go to xenophobia second. I have to pacific. Have you seen this film now?
Pacifists they aren't they aren't very passive. They're passed trial by combat by combat. I like their
Their leader, you know, it's funny leader by combat, but they're pacifists
someone in the comments
Like made a snarky remark about you and me mauler about how like we don't apparently watch the movie
If this guy's calling these if this guy's calling wakanda's pacifists
which one exactly is uh
That's not like black panther's job is literally to go out into the world and fight shit that's what he does
I mean did we forget the fact that like all the bald women are like some of the best fighters in the country
No, no, no, you guys are misunderstanding what he's saying. It's pacifist as in he passes the fist across your face
There are varying degrees of isolationism too because it could be argued that in the 19th century while the united states was
Isolated from europe. They were still engaging with you know, mexico and the
american tribes
Like they they weren't pacifists, but they were still arguably isolationist
Yeah, yeah, and then as for xenophobia, uh afraid of other cultures, I don't think they were afraid
I think they're protecting i'm happy to admit that they were protecting vibranium as a resource and that they didn't want that was their main
Justification in the film that they didn't want the vibranium to get out into the wrong hands. Yeah, that's fine
To explain why they would isolate themselves, but I could only believe them doing that much later
I don't know why they would they would have control of basically africa is what I would expect
Quick protect the maguffin
Pacifism any given motivation not to conquer and invade other nations will do the trick in wakanda's face
They view the rest of the world as primitive savage and aggressive when they built themselves their own utopian society. It's not
It's not even utopian at all. It's not utopian. They like their leader with trial by combat
Not just that dude, but kind of fucking utopia is that it's a monarchy
There's a literal the brother of the king tried to defect because of how much he's he decided that the other the world outside needs
Help so like again your the problem rise is that we've got an example of someone breaking from this idea that that they should remain
Isolated but I also find it interesting that he's sort of they're pacifists, but they're not benevolent. They apparently view
Everybody outside is worse off and kind of doing it wrong
So nobody at any point has thought actually, you know what?
Maybe we should rule and then everything will be better. I mean that was the motivation of the uncle killmonger was the first person
Who actually bought it? Yeah
Someone in chat said a xenophobic utopia
Yeah, that doesn't sound right
Maybe I have where people are actually educated well beyond the standards of anywhere else in the world
Why do you so so was the british empire? What's your point?
Yeah, a little bit, but the british empire was racist. They didn't have super secret macguffin tech. No, yes
They had
So this point he had there's some stuff to hash out, right?
But I can't wait for him to try and defend the science balls or whatever
That's gonna be fun
I want to I want to get this I want to kind of get this in one clip though
Because it's weird not to conquer and invade other nations will do the trick in wakanda's case
They view the rest of the world as primitive savage and aggressive when they built themselves their own
So is the country that uses trial by combat. I was about to say they try it dude primitive and aggressive trial by combat
Need I remind you about all the lip frisbees?
This is I mean i'm, sorry. What who's the primitive one here the one who uh, it relates their
You also have skyscrapers with uh with huts like with straw
He's gonna have to respond to that because I make a point about it. So I hope he shows the screenshot
That stuff sounds like really
Condescending
What now especially if this is supposed to be hoisted as some sort of like a black identity movie
You know the whole skyscraper huts thing i'd be like man. Really?
It kind of looks cool, but once you start thinking about it in terms of utils, it's a little bit bizarre
Yeah, it's like you just what you think we're just gonna live in fucking huts and our our space
What if it hails?
Does it just go straight into the rain?
You don't know the rain made through the shield the huts are made of steel vibranium. They're just vibranium straw
No, they grew the trees out of vibranium. It's vibranium wood
When after earth was more respectable to black
Something they have a mountain of vibranium
Didn't kill them when the the comet or the asteroid landed. Yeah, that should have wiped them out
That should have I mean if it was big enough that they have an entire society that barely touches the like
Remember when claw said oh they barely scratched the surface. So it must have been a pretty big asteroid
Maybe you know big enough to kill humanity
Maybe the story was saying it crashed ages ago and then when humans arrived that would be the only explanation
Because otherwise it would have just killed everybody. I mean we haven't even got the flower power yet, too
Let's go with that. Let's just say yeah it happened before they were there
We haven't even talked about the the grape juice that turns them into superheroes
I'm sure he's gonna point out that i'm wrong on that too, but we'll have to get to it
All right, let's just told me about some ancient ancient group
It's a name a group of people that's isolationist and pacifist and they're guarding some lost secret. I'm like, uh, tibetan monks
um the amish
Uh something like that. I wouldn't be like oh an ancient african tribe
Someone called it the purple drank of heroes
of heroes
They're actually educated well beyond the standards of anywhere else in the world
Why do you think that they think it would be a good idea to then go and conquer some of those savages?
You say because then they can just take over the whole world and have a monopoly on the entire planet
What he just did was argue that because of things that happened way later that explains things they did already which was stay isolated
I'm talking about way back when i'm not talking about when they became fucking super civilized super advanced people
When they were literally just terrible argument to make it's like oh their activities in 2000s explain their activities in the negative
One million. It's like no
But four they have everything they need what could they possibly you don't even know that
You just assume they have everything they need. Is that true? I mean
We can assume there is vibranium but infinite vegetation and shelter that's not even possible
Yeah, what about space and other resources? I mean, it's vibranium is great. I have no doubt about it
But you still have to have other things
It's just strange. When has the society ever been post scarcity?
I don't even just why did why do people have so much trouble with this? I was saying to wolf
I think before we started it's like you have a family who have a house and then they have seven kids and then they grow up
The parents die two of the kids say we're having this house you guys can build and sit in another one with your new family
Oh, look one house now two houses over one generation apply that to an entire culture
Look what happens
It's just basic shit you expand your tribe in order to serve the populace they need more resources and shelter simple
Stop treating it like it's some kind of horrific thing to do
Like as if there was just tribes right next to them. They're like, we can't we can't hurt them
It's like no there was probably loads of grassland
And how quickly we gloss over they conquered four other tribes and bloody warfare
To start off the story and it's like let's get that out of the way quick. It's just now moving on
They conquered every tribe in in plain sight and then they stopped because that's mean
Okay, very progressive
Gained by expanding their borders at this point other than bigger borders. Yeah at this point. That's absolutely a different conversation
I'm talking about back when they actually start because they didn't have the giant dome then
Yeah, if if someone goes to a country and says hey, do you just want free land?
You think the country's gonna say no, it just makes our borders bigger. That's the part that I don't get
I think it is. Yeah, you know all the fields that are just outside of wakanda. It's like, why don't you grab that say?
Earth is really big. We have a lot of vacant space. Yeah, earth is insanely big
It's really there aren't people everywhere. There are a lot of empty spaces that they could have taken
Yeah, like as someone just brought up in chats, like what typically stops an expanding civilization?
It's like well, it's usually a lack of land or an opposing faction
It's either a limited military some sort of a geographical barrier
Um, uh a truce between two people over a guarded border
um
It could be all sorts of things but it's not just because one side
Is like nah
No, we're not gonna do that speed
Especially back, you know a thousand years ago
The humans expanded excessively and the wakandans are already established as a people who are willing to dominate neighboring tribes
Are you telling me they stopped after they took fucking four?
The five tribes did battle but they weren't all conquered by a victor
They united in the end all the battling took place. No, they were conquered by the guy with the black panther juice
That's the point he won because he had the most
power
I'm gonna double check that black panther infra to see what they didn't do
It's not like they just went he well even if they only unified because black panther was like by the way i'm black panther
They would be like, okay. Fuck fine. That's not exactly a truce. Is it it's unification through because one of them would kill you
And so you're like, yeah, let's unite
This is the best possible way that this could end that ignores the part that they actually fought still
They were still fighting which means they are showing them fighting on the screen
Someone called it colonization woke juice
Like yeah, it's like no no they weren't conquered the screen see to me this has two people fighting each other
Yeah, why do you need to we don't even we can move on to another topic because this is obvious
The film is very clear about this. You don't need to like
No, the fighting you interpreted the fighting wrong. It's not actually fighting. It was discussion
Someone uh pointed out remember when adolf united europe
As as jenn has just had the quote for peace is having a larger stick than the next guy
But yeah, they use they use strength and they were like we're better than you so far
This is the thing the black panther juice like no one will be able to stop a black panther powered person back then impossible
It's long before they had their advanced technology and the unification of right but there was a black panther
The black panther came and then they unified remember
So why'd they do that? What is he suggesting?
The black panther guy was just said peace and love everyone and they said okay
So was black panther like black jesus then
Apparently like this is the thing that i'm i don't think
I think he's inventing that part. I would have to watch the intro again to make sure but the fact is and the good load said
Eat watermelon. They did fight is is the main point
It's very strange too when you think about all of the other tribes and stuff and all the other cold
They just didn't notice wakanda. They didn't
Do anything about it. They didn't write anything about it or get into fights with them or
Or be aggressive in any way. It's just you have it. It's
Yeah, how do you reconcile that?
Like with reality is a perfectly adequate explanation of why the warring stopped serious. You didn't even provide an explanation. You just said it stopped
Go back. Let's go back. See what he said did battle but they weren't all conquered by a victor
They united in the end all the battling took place long before they had their advanced
King is the victor unification of them all indicates a cult fighting before they had advanced technology doesn't affect the point whatsoever
He doesn't understand that the unification happened after there was a black panther
Yeah, that's the magic
And I would imagine that the reason why everybody stopped fighting was because you now have an unstoppable force
Who's telling you? All right. Nah stop. Yeah
Unified under the one there were five tribes and four of them
Agreed to unify underneath one of them. Yeah, that was
Yeah, that's that's that's saying. Oh, they won't wipe us out in our entirety. So that's probably the way we need to get the best
possible solution
Yeah, basically
We've been streaming for an hour and managed to make it three minutes in
We're almost the three minutes will be conquered by a victor
They united in the end all the battling took place long before they had their advanced technology and the unification of them all indicates
A cultural shift acting is a perfectly adequate explanation of why the warring stop indicates a cultural shift
Gotta be careful with that language indicates a cultural shift. He hasn't got anything. He's just yeah, that's descriptive
It's not it's not actually saying what's
What what happened?
Like we we go from what we're actually shown
He's going from what you could infer
Seriously and no one managed to get the word out about wakanda's resources across its entire history except golem
Are you telling me that across the vast history of wakanda?
No one on earth found them before they got their cloaking device up
The movie isn't telling you that the movie literally never said that you said that I mean, that's why it was a question that yeah
That's that
This is an amazing projection coming from the guy who's literally making up story points to dude
He quoted me like how did he miss that?
Like everything he said has been wrong in his three and a half minutes
So to clarify for him, right my assumption from watching it again because I didn't have a direct quote
Is that it baffles me that?
Uh, wakanda stayed secret when we already know from the opening in the 90
9097 92 something like that
But there is a guy who is about to release wakandan weapons onto the world implying that he would obviously let
People know that wakanda exists and it's like he's the only and golem was successful in sharing the secrets of wakanda, right?
So i'm saying the only guy who was successful in revealing the secrets of wakanda is golem in in 2010 or whatever
Like really it's also important to remember that um in captain america
They got vibranium and they would have gotten it. I mean, I don't remember how they explained it, but they got it
Yeah, how'd they get it back then and not start inquiring into it?
I'm curious how they mined vibranium back in the day when there was nothing if there's nothing stronger than vibranium
I'm curious how they the argument is a laser
The argument is that it's super malleable. Yeah, it's basically super metal. It can do whatever you want
Okay, it's the macguffin
It is. Yeah, there's no denying that kind of yeah in the film. It's used to do everything
How do we have a a super powered?
Secret civilization in the middle of africa that nobody has ever known about in their life and they're better than everyone else. Oh macguffin
one metal
You know, he didn't really address your question either because he said no one wasn't saying that it's like, okay
What is it saying then? Well, it's a fair question, you know
Let's see if he does. Well, see how he approaches it
Explanation of why the warring stopped seriously and no one managed to get the word out about wakanda's resources across this entire history
Except golem. Are you telling me that across the vast history of wakanda?
No one on earth found them before they got their cloaking device up
The movie isn't telling you that the movie literally never said that you said that so then what did it say?
Maybe maybe he's gonna do it. Maybe he's gonna do it
Holiness or whatever stumbled across wakanda back in the day before they got their cloaking device up
What do you think would have happened to change the events of this film?
Either the wakandans would have employed whatever method they would deem appropriate to stop people from spreading the wood
You're suggesting they would murder people
No, they're pacifists, but we've established them
Once they're discovered they're fucked
Dude imagine it's a horror film there's people trekking through wakanda they bump into the shield and then they're just like the black path
It's like that island
Uh, I don't remember where it's off the coast from
It's that island that still has like that tribe living on it where everyone that goes on the island gets brutally murdered
Yeah, yeah
There's a super chat actually that that's interesting that
Sort of makes a point here from o f jahootie v2
He gave 19 and 99 cents
Go to read that or did you want to read it out? Oh, I don't know. I was I don't know
Because I was going to say I usually do the the super chats between videos, but our north sentinel island
That's what kind of it's this kind of topical. Uh, he says other african tribes did find the wakandans though
The lady at the museum says the vibranium spear is from another african tribe in that british soldiers found
Uh killmonger confirms this but says the spears were condom
Well, it's not it's not even just that because as as they brought up earlier the uh caps shield that must have come from somewhere
Basically, there are there are little holes that need to be plugged and this guy's argument is well, obviously they were plugged
And it's just funny that he's like because obviously they would have just murdered these people. Yeah
Which is weird because he already establishes that they're xenophobic
pacifists
How could they but how could they possibly know like if somebody founded before they had their technology, you know
That there had to be an evolution to where they got dude
The idea that there's not a wakandan in wakanda that decided left
Literally somebody's like i'm gonna reveal this place. Fuck it
It's to me
Fun to turn around and go home, but no they murdered everybody. Okay, just get over it. It's weird
Yeah, you'd think they're in all the
I'm like even in the 1800s and stuff and early 1900s, you know
while africa was being you know settled and colonized by france and britain and all that you'd think they would be like, oh
Look at these people. That's new. So we just have to go. Okay guys, that's the last person we murdered to conceal existence now
All right, we're going back to being pacifists
And see like I feel bad for the guy because he's having to invent reasons for this stuff to work
And now he doesn't even realize that his his own fan fiction started to contradict itself
We shouldn't even have to be writing it in the first place, dude
Vibranium can't melt plot holes this film
I think the wakandans would have employed whatever method they would deem appropriate to stop people from spreading the word of their city
Or if they didn't they probably wouldn't have been able to get wakanda to anything more than legend status
The movie explicitly states that would have been
Yeah, but putting yeah, that would be enough that would be enough to somebody to go look for it
Yeah, this is yeah, they they don't exist in a separate dimension. You walk up to it and it will frazzle you on the freaking
the dome
What what it is is no, I don't think the shield is up all the time
I think it's just the shield makes it look like it's a jungle. We're talking about
I mean we're talking about the time before the shield
Oh, yeah, that's I guess i'm talking about both
But I was just going to say if you walked into wakanda and kept walking
Eventually, you'd hit the shield now whether or not you die or you go through it. That's gonna you know, yeah
Everybody else behind you is going to go what the fuck just happened to
He's like, holy shit
Make a horror film out of black path of that cutting these people down like and you know
I'm not going to accept the argument of all they had a census so they knew that somebody walked
Black panther went and murdered them. What if it was like a
Boar or a zebra or something that just walked into the shield and died
Someone did
a trail of dead corpses
Along this perimeter of like animals that just died
A whole mountain of dead animals
Yes
Skeletons around
They can have they can have like the corpses popping it up on sticks to come in
Suddenly walks through the shield he sees the basically
This is what it comes down to I don't believe they've put enough effort in to explain how this place could possibly have remained a secret
Yeah, because it's not like they go into
mass amnesiacs
Well, I think I think the big issue is that it's on the continent of africa when it's like landlocked
It seems a lot less plausible than if it were an island. Yeah. Yeah
Remember how in wonder woman yeah
That works a lot better that's a mention wonder woman at least had the caveat of like there's mist that goes around
Yeah, it's a secret magical. Yeah
But also, you know the ocean is really big
Yeah, yeah true. Yeah
It's a secret island. It's surrounded by mist and the really really choppy waters and it's stormy
You're like I can believe that
And I think it's just you look at history and the latest people that we ever discovered were always in the islands
You know, like you find people off in the pacific islands
But you don't you don't just like walk through
Russia or something and then go to asia and you're like to stumble upon these people who've never been met by anybody before
Yeah, it's not that likely
Just like north central island right now. There's people right now today that
Like haven't discovered technology. They still use spears and I guess the amazon is another example
But it's important to remember that the amazon is a lot more impenetrable than continental africa
Yeah, also we they're not the same we get to a point now where it's like he's accusing us of the star
Well, I say us me that uh, you know, like maybe think about this next time. It's like clearly we thought about
We have thought about it
Like this is this is I don't criticize lightly
It's like this is why it doesn't make sense. And he's just like well, no if you just I think I think a lot of
Yeah, I think I think all of us are probably quite obsessive over like trying to think this stuff through
We want it to make sense satisfying
What we're trying to play devil's advocate with each other here is what we're doing and it's really tough
Like if we were sitting on, you know, disney's board of directors or the creative team and like, okay
We have to do x and we're like
Um, jesus christ, how do we do this? How do we write this away? Yeah, it would be tough
Well, it's the certain it's the scrutiny that you should be applying to your own story
I mean, this is the kind of thing that you're meant to do when you're writing a story
You think about it and if it doesn't work, then you have to try something else. Yeah, and I have this issue
Like if this guy invents the idea that they're xenophobic pacifists
Then you can't you have to you have to be consistent with your explanation
And that's the thing we're stuck all the way back since when was that a thing and then it's like it doesn't even make sense
If we take him seriously, it's just like uh
Yeah, because it counters what he says later. He's it's this is this is so far pretty awful
Okay, well we'll keep going or if they did manage to escape
They probably wouldn't have been able to get wakanda to anything more than legend status the movie
Yeah
So the reason we brought that up is when he says he can only get it to legend status
If you told someone there is a place in the middle of wakanda that if you walk up to it
It will frazzle you on a freaking dome. You'd be like how many people went looking for?
That's pretty good
You realize that a guy tried to launch himself into space recently to prove that the earth was flat, right
You're telling me that no one would ever think hmm, maybe I can go looking for this
Yeah, I might take a walk in wakanda. Oh, that's ridiculous. You don't do that
I mean hell if that legend spread enough I could imagine iron man being like yeah, I might look into that just out of curiosity
Recently states at the beginning that wakanda is surrounded by mountain ranges and impenetrable forests and to top it off if you're
impenetrable forest, there's no such thing
Yeah, those don't exist
People live in the amazon jungle
That's like me going like an indestructible
Uh, wait, yeah, it's like, you know, africa's not like really a jungle, you know, are they sci-fi trees?
Are there they're vibranium trees?
Even if they were vibranium trees you can walk through trees. It's not hard
Even the fangorn forest wasn't indestructible by the way
Until they fucked up isengard that's already counting himself again because that's implying that what wakandans were trapped inside the trees
Maybe and at that point they're not isolationists. They were just unlucky
Well, if you if you look at it from the uh, from the perspective of thor technically everything is a giant spirit tree
So we're all technically trapped in a tree. I just picture there's a tree and he just sees it
He's like impenetrable. We walk around and he goes
They grow horizontally
Through it and the rock bounces back
Do they give like a geographic position for
Yeah central africa and they just kind of near where
They show it's surrounded by loads of grass fields loads of fields that they're not even in you know, like all of the
The faked guys when they flew over. Yeah, there's loads of space
It's not like it's a bunch of trees and even if it were why would that stop people? I don't understand
Someone said it's as impenetrable as the defense of this movie. Yeah, and like everybody walked back then
It's not like they're trying to drive tanks and shit through it
Like is impenetrable for us you walk through it
It's just
What were they stopping like fucking
I don't know dodge caravans
We're not even like on the plot which is by the way
My biggest issues with this film is killmonger in the plot. It's not even this but
Sure, killmonger in the plot would be a good band name
That's true movie explicitly states at the beginning that wakanda is surrounded by mountain rangers and impenetrable forests except the parts that aren't
And to top it off if you actually manage to get through all that
What do you find a group of people intent on not letting you spread the word? No, they're pacifists
I was gonna say what do you mean by that? They murder you?
What do you think happens? Do you do they make you pinky swear?
You have to write the movies. Yeah now at this point
I'm just thinking like what happens if some kid from some other tribe just like went exploring in the jungle
And he just walks through and just sees these giant towers. What do they do to him?
Well, little mikandis about to be a fucking statistic, I guess
That's the thing bad. You've got to keep wakanda safe. So whatever it's collateral again
We can throw him on the giraffe body. All right guys
How much would you enjoy the wakandan culture at that point? How much someone said they'll pacify you to death?
What do you find a group of people intent on not letting you spread the word once you've actually
Have you guys noticed how vague he is with the he doesn't say murder
He doesn't say anything. He's like they will you know engage in methods that prevent
They will really they will convince you with very
Very well constructed dialogue and discussion
I'm sorry. I gotta read this comment. It uh says
You must forget dewey the first black panther to christopher columbus
I just dude I like
You teared up you teared up and all the faba people are like hey, man
You're like, hey you carry on walking the goat where you're going you go. Oh just over there and they go
Don't don't do that
You do not know dewey
You do not know dewey over those maps he keeps avoiding
Like you know why right because if you admit that wakandans have been murdering anybody who comes close to them
That's really grim
Like you're like good luck. That makes them bad
No, that makes them very very bad
Very hard to root for harder to root for them than it was before
How far back over the mountain ranges or through the rainforest
So do you expect people to be able to get so that people can get back home?
I love how he says through the wall ranges
Is though people don't like climb mountains all the time
Let me hear that again because I think i'm going to be making that point
A group of people intent on not letting you spread the word once you've actually discovered the city
How far back over the mountain ranges or through the rainforest?
So do you expect people to be able to get so well if they got there?
Yeah, presumably they can get back before yeah people don't go further than they can't return before that bit because he's wrong on that too
Is he suggesting that any people who get into wakanda decide? Well can't get back out
Guess I'll just stay here forever
Sorry wife and kids and their national pride in my culture
There is no other race in wakanda. So you that doesn't even account for any explorers across the world from the western world
Someone else said it my weight boy forget do it or you will forget your life
Watching the movie wrong that's what we're doing. Um, but yeah
So so it said bone dome and that's we need to start calling it the bone
But my question is if they're going there from the legends alone, right?
And and then you go well when they get there they realize they can't get back like it's so flimsy
Do you think people who go to climb everest don't have the foresight to bring resources that will bring them back?
Well, yeah, it's not a one-way trip and we're talking about a rainforest. You could actually survive in it
like if you did
This is not
Very very very strange points being made here fucking bizarre. This is awful so far
I went hiking up a mountain just three months ago and I brought the stuff. I would need to get up and back down
Why why does he think that people wouldn't do that?
If you were so good that you could get through the quote unquote impenetrable
Which it isn't because somebody penetrated but if you're good enough to get through that or climb mountains
Are they so stupid that they don't know how to get back? Yeah, it's very strange because he's doing he's just like they just wouldn't
typically speaking
Well, it's only impenetrable when you try to go back through the forest
It's like does he not understand that hannibal crossed the alps in 218 b.c
He took elephants over the fucking
alps
to invade
Rome in
218 b.c
But rags you're forgetting that there wasn't an impenetrable forest in the way
Oh, yeah, I forgot impenetrable forest remember that
It's how did people get to Tibet that no the impenetrable Himalayas they just they didn't
And the fact that he's taking the words of the movie so
definitively like if the movie told you for example
There is a mountain on every side of Wakanda that's so big no one could ever cross it and you're just sitting there thinking like
What?
And then this guy's like, you know
Human beings managed to cross an ice bridge between russia and alaska and then go all the way
Down to the bottom so close that they could get to antarctica if they wanted to
But they can't walk through like two kilometers of shrub
There wasn't an impenetrable ice forest
Well, let's think about it though
If what he said was true that doesn't really help him out because if there's a point on the earth where there's a circle
Of mountains around a point then people are like, ooh, that's mysterious
Yeah, especially if it's uncharted yeah people want that's the thing they don't that's the thing they don't make anymore
He's not accurate about this anyway because they show that there's plenty of grassy field areas
Planes outside of this dome. So it's just not true. Anyway
But there we are. We're still on the intro as well. I feel like he's not gonna cover
He said he's gonna be able to do this in two parts
How are you gonna be able to cover all my points into I have a feeling he's gonna skip over the ones that are that are
good
I was expecting a better
Rebuttal to my point here. I still think my point's good here. I was expecting better as well
Yes, Wakanda exists, I promise and then when the age rolled around that it would be impossible to miss a big city like that
The modern age of photo evidence and google maps. They had their cloaking device up
Do you actually think that any I never said the Wakanda should we didn't talk about? Yeah, never said that so
Again, and someone launched themselves into space or tried to launch themselves into space to prove the earth is flat
You're just you're in denial if you think that people wouldn't try and find this
We've gone over his point anyways in so this is the thing it breaks in so many different ways
But yeah, he's right
Anybody tries to take a photo of Wakanda with a dome up won't get a photo of Wakanda
But I don't think I ever said that so it's all good
I don't think I've ever said that you kind of got to go under the dome to get a photo of Wakanda
No one's gonna believe you if you look at the dome
No one ever just walked into that people would have just walked into the fucking dome
They're like people live in africa
Like I think is that is that a thing that people forget like africa's full of people
It's just funny that one of the biggest counters is just look at human history
We do insane shit to get to places really insane. Yeah, and you know, especially towards the later years if
if for example some
Military in central africa went off and it's like well you guys go that way
We'll go this way and then meet up and they just don't show up
And they don't hear from them. Are you saying that at no point would anybody investigate that somebody said India had mountains
But did it have impenetrable trees?
All right, here we go any kind of credence what's the google satellite passed over that oh
Oh also important before we go on hannibal was african
So he could do it
Just saying each of photo evidence and google maps. They had their cloaking device up
Do you actually think that any legend of wakanda that oh, well, I never said that you're inferring it
A bunch of trolls on fortune looked at weather patterns to find child buffs flag
You're trying to tell me that people
Would not go looking for this. I mean people found like some dude dragging a dead guy over a dock somewhere on google maps
And you're trying to tell me that no one would even attempt to find wakanda in this you
They literally travel into the dome with spaceships
It's so reckless. They're not even cloaked. Do you remember I make I make a point of this
I don't know if he's going to bring it up
But they're in wakanda with their ship fully visible that they go bloop into the dome
But it's like yeah, google would actually get a photo of that funnily enough. That would actually happen
Once existed would ever be given any kind of credence
Once the google satellite passed over that area and provided photographic evidence
Someone said people not pacify us
Did you just imply that people wouldn't believe it once google's passed over there and shown nothing?
Do you understand flat earthers exist?
Come on
There are people who wouldn't believe the earth is round if they were like
You know taken into space and traveled around the earth
Some people think that they're 6 000 years old even though we have like um
Even though we know of things that existed before that time. Even though the pyramids predate that yeah
Does this guy honestly believe that if google said wakanda does not exist then we'd all go
Okay
Yeah, then all we would be able to infer is that that wakanda's conservative
Yeah, people would assume that google had been paid off
Like this is so crazy. They could get like yeah
I mean you do realize that people believe like the flat earthers believe that every airplane has windows
That make the earth appear around
I mean, come on. How delusional are you viewed wakanda that is sitting right next to them in extreme poverty
Do they actually care about the people starving at their doorstep?
Do they at least bribe those guys to stay silent like you probably think i'm crazy right now
Watch the opening again before they travel through the secret entrance to wakanda the ship that black panther and his crew are in
Flies right past regular wakandans and some fuck is waving to them
No
It's funny to hear that again to clarify
For this man in case he doesn't understand my point
I understand that the outside wakandans are in on it, right?
But the the world is in on the outside wakandans. We know about the outside wakandans. Okay, we accept they exist
So they would naturally have people there maybe visiting they have people who interact with the real world like that's that's okay
So information can spread and it's like and you have these people actively watching
Regular interactions with the secret wakanda for me
You you take that concept you add as many years as you want to it and the information is going to bleed out
There's no way yeah. Hey, there's a there's a new country across the ocean called america full of opportunity
And you can go there and start a new life
I mean who what all these fucking goat farmers in the middle of africa wakanda or not?
How many of them will say you know what there's this new world that's been discovered?
But I wonder what that's all about and again, right relief workers who apparently you know
They can go everywhere except wakanda perhaps but like just picture one relief worker who's curious. I
I scarcely remember
Something that had to do with un people going to the poor wakanda front and no, I guess nobody let it slip like
Oh, you know, hey buddy. I'm just going into the force field to pick up some groceries
What croaker he like does it in front of all the relief workers his friend is like, oh that was that's
Whoa, oh darn another one. It happened again. Oh, no, I think oh man
time to pacify
In civil war when they're in legos and doing like they had relief workers
I guess nobody at any point like spoke to where they could see the language written on their lips on the inner side of their lip
All right, you know when they were chewing nobody saw that lucky no one ever saw that
Thing they do not put in enough effort and they show us so many things that make me go
Like how could you possibly have stayed a secret?
But anyway, let's let's hear his counter
multiple choice
What strikes you as more likely the thing that you just said which you were only saying because you think it's ridiculous in the first place
All these people that are just outside the secret city of wakanda are from okay
So why are they poor then my point relies on point b being true?
Yeah
This guy's not very this guy's not very bright. What does he mean? The thing I just said clearly isn't true. That fuck is waving
Yeah, this guy's in on it
Like yeah, we know like he said this guy this fucker is waving if it adds to the issue if they leave
Uh stay out of the city if they keep going at it out
I mean i'm pretty sure the movie makes it a point that everyone outside of the central domed wakanda is poor
Let me just give you an example
You're already saying that they don't they don't leave the city because class envy. No
Do they have internet at wakanda?
Yes, or no, I guess not I guess no because if there was
You're done just with that fact alone. Oh, they they use vpns
You can't it's like with the internet they fuck because there's just it takes one wakanda to go
I'm actually in a secret city right now. Well played overwatch or something
You look at a heat map of like where all of your internet traffic's from and there's just this random spot in the middle of africa
Or there's a bunch of people who have high speed internet. You're like
Weird yeah, i'm sure this no wakanda never said ha you're gay
Yeah, it was weird that he said this because like I said point b is what i'm assuming is true in order to make my point
All these people there was no teenager who just said
I mean the secret city of wakanda, but just aren't in it at the moment, right? Let's put it this way
Are they your two choices? Is that your two choices? I don't even understand the dichotomy there. That was weird
I don't understand it either
That's very strange
Why didn't he know when he was typing that out was he like oh shit people being outside wakanda?
That's like an issue for secrecy pretty sure that's not uh, the correct aspect ratio by the way
Well, he's got to add the black into it to make it
I don't even you're yeah, why isn't he correcting my aspect ratio?
Why didn't he use clips from black panther because it's out. He's clearly using clips from other movies
Wow because he was busy thinking of why'd you cut out the black? Yeah
Why'd you cut out the black dude? Are you making it black? Are you yeah, do you hate black?
You're not like saying black on the screen
We may as well nitpick him technically since he did it to me
It's like yeah
What you should have done here is start remove the background so that it plays this as black is now it's just distracting that
We have this strange border around the film
Yeah, how do you like it when someone does it to you?
How about wakanda or claw wouldn't be a thing
But the reason this isn't common knowledge which seems to be what you're complaining about is that well if someone
Common knowledge i'm confused how it never got out which would have spread and spread and spread
Claw seems to be the only information breach they've ever had
Aside from the brother legends spring up about places that never existed that people spent their whole lives looking for
Yeah, you know atlantis. Eldorado
So a place that actually did exist
um
Yeah
Very interesting told you there was a secret african city that was invisible from google maps and all other yes
I would believe that
I could believe that right now
If you told me there's more dane would go there and check it out or one of those discovery channel shows
They would go out and see like legends
I'm blown away by this the amount of legends that exist in human history that have no bearing on reality like people believe this stuff
Dude, google maps does not disprove legends
You realize that the flying spaghetti monster actually has an ironic
Right
Did did google maps when it was released did that disprove atlantis? How did that go?
I think that this guy forgets that wakanda isn't a concept
It's a physical place and that if somebody went to go look for it, they would find it
That's the thing if you go look for it. You'll find it
Especially if they literally got access to vibranium. I mean
Or sold ultron like several crates of vibranium. Exactly. Yeah
I mean, how is it?
He literally has the stuff that they have
Anybody would believe him if he said that dude after age of ultron wouldn't iron man have been like
Where did all this a vibranium come from? Yeah, exactly because I should be using this kind of metal
Like I would love to use this kind of metal
And that's the thing is because it's really badly done. It's stapled on black panther as a film is stapled onto the mcu
And they're just like, uh, this makes sense. Shut up
And let's be honest if someone told you that there is a secret world in africa right now and you're like, uh,
Surely not we would have found it and it's like no it has a dome that literally
Makes it impossible to see through and if anything touches it it vaporizes. I would still be like hmm
Test though that's exactly it's like well, I could go and prove you wrong just by walking through wakanda
So let's go. Oh, yeah
Well on the discovery channel all those shows that they have about people going into the wilderness and checking out legends
It would have gone out there
The satellite photos would you believe them or would you trust that you know
Evidence that there isn't one there. How is google maps definitive evidence? I'm not even saying it isn't
I'm not saying it is possible
No, what i'm saying is that uh, I can understand someone believing that google maps is forged if they were
You know, like a shot was forged on there and it was paid for by someone. I understand how you could believe it
I probably wouldn't myself but it's possible and the idea that what does it matter if I believe it?
Yeah, it's you're not trying to convince someone or somebody or a group of people here
You're trying to convince an entire planet multiple civilizations worth of people
It's like he thinks that people don't believe things without evidence look at every religion ever
I just this is bizarre. You stayed on this point for so long. It's like why do you want to die on this hill?
Yeah
Yeah, he's five and a half minutes in and his points are awful
In contradictory workers not find out about this if the third world wakandans know about it
It's explicitly stated that wakanda refuses aid and that would include relief workers
Yeah, that doesn't make any sense either because relief workers would find it anyway
I in fairness the relief. Yeah, no, I was gonna say in fairness to him
I didn't make it explicit enough
But what I meant and I swear to god was right in the script
I meant this because I remember the scene where they say they refuse relief workers
Relief workers are not refused at every other place outside of wakanda
So how is it possible over this entire time that nobody ventured into wakanda?
Yeah, because they don't yeah
They don't know what's a wakanda to venture into that doesn't mean if you go there you won't be in wakanda
You'll just find it also
That's it's more bullshit because you're trying to tell us that as a as a western community
Where like let's look after the work like help people in africa and it's like yeah every single country gets given aid
Except wakanda the one right in the middle. It's like why?
Well, because they don't want it. Why?
Well, yes
If they're poor they would want it if they were actually having people die
They would want it exactly and if they're rich, it'll make us go. Wait, why are they rich?
Are they able to help they present themselves as poor are they rich?
Do they have something that we don't know about let's look into that this guy
The only way this narrative works for him is if everyone on planet earth is retarded. It's like we all just go. Oh, okay
That's fine
Is wakanda a real thing we check google maps to start there
It's the holdo defense
Oh the story works if the characters are retarded
Well, you know you kind of got to be retarded to like this movie. So
That's racist. That's a mood. Oh, well, yeah
Some some of us are retarded. Okay, and we hate in this movie. We actually get into the movie proper
There are a few balls based jokes that I actually quite like as he is plummeting to the trees
He throws his balls at his enemies and it disables them, but there's nothing really wrong here
I mean unless i'm missing something which isn't unthinkable everything is just sort of
Wait a second. If what if nobody knows about wakanda, how come he just fucking shows up at the u.n?
Oh, well, they know about the fake what they know about wakanda, but it's the fake front wakanda
Yes, it's a little bit they have suits and have access to planes
We fly them over to different countries it's a bit weird, isn't it the more you think about it that has questions
It's a fake. I guess there's a fake. Yeah, I guess you forgot about that. Didn't you for?
Or that wakanda is actually
La la la la turn off your brain. La la la guys. He appreciated my balls joke high five. All right, he's hooray
Actually now wait, no, no now what now i'm even more confused
So wakanda is recognized as an actual country
But unlike all the other countries surrounding it that were created by european colonizers the one
The single one that wasn't colonized apparently that had nobody go there and like take them over
In the entire continent is the one that doesn't let people come to their country
And it doesn't accept
Isn't that just a big mystery isn't that just like wow that sounds really
You want to go there and then if you find out there are legends of wakanda having an incredible society underneath it
You'd be like fuck i'm gonna go i'm gonna go
He's like, yeah, there would be national
Graphic teams and fucking all sorts of people trying to find out the it would be it would be a whole mini series
You'll get a discovery channel a psycho
It's eight people who are like let's take pistols and everything else that we need
And go on this trek because we're gonna discover history here, but we might get attacked
And if we don't come back we are going here and here and here and before someone says that's ridiculous
It's happened in history people have done it before they do crazy things
Again an african guy hannibal crossed mountains with elephants in 218
bc
People get to where they want to go
Even if they want to fucking bring elephants with them
Exactly beautiful elephants that can get past impenetrable trees
Well, maybe not probably not that's why he took him over the mountains because trees were just too much the mountains are easy to cross
Yes, someone in the chat said he's really well spoken for a king of shepherds
I mean I still i'm still i'm still stuck at the whole speaking english thing
I still think that that's pretty retarded that the entire culture speak english. Shouldn't they speak an african language?
Should we chalk that up to just movie simplicity? Yeah. No, i'm actually okay with it for the most part
I mean, it's the same reason that when peter quill goes into space everybody speaks english even though
The reason I bring it up here rather than let's say guardians is because does that imply they speak both
If they if they speak english in makanda, then that means they must have been dealing with the outside world
In some way like at least they learned the language from the outside world and then adopted it or are we supposed to just ignore that?
Well, here's that we've already established that it's basically inevitable that they interact with the outside world
I mean if especially if people are living outside wakanda and because for almost all of wakanda's history, they didn't have a magic
the guffin wall
They will interact with other people
Like I said they used a vpn i'm happy to just keep going anyway on that one
He throws his balls at his enemies and it disables them. There's nothing really wrong here
I mean unless i'm missing something which isn't unthinkable everything is just sort of fine for a while
Then we get to stuff like this. Why in the world would black panther bother with any kind of stealth?
His suit makes him immune to bullets
He may as well just do it the iron man way and land in the center of a bunch of enemies and just fuck them
All up. They can't actually do anything to him
So why bother with the pretense and maybe you're thinking he wants to do it
Wait, I think he might have cut my context there because I almost disagree to myself. I was like, why would you bother with stealth?
In general, it's like well
There are times where you can at least spy on people at least so that's always good for stealth
But I can't remember if I was arguing it for that scenario
I think what it was was you were just pointed out the part where there were the jungle
Stealth fully took out two guys and then yeah, I was there
I found it weird that he stealthly took out two and then it doesn't matter. He can't be hurt. What's the point?
Yeah, so I feel like he might have cut my out of my context there
With a limit to civilian casualty or protecting the people in the convoy
But he only stealth kills two for the rest. He just assaults the place with bullets flying everywhere. Yes, you heard that right
That was why is he bothering with stealth? It doesn't seem very necessary almost immediately
Well, he doesn't seem to be using stealth very much
It's almost as if he used stealth just for the approach so that he could get the advantage. That doesn't make sense
No, no stop stop
He's not understanding the point the point is that if if he is invulnerable to bullets
Yet he still killed two people, but then later on doesn't seem to care about
Damage like it has to be one or the other either. Yeah
Yeah, exactly, you know why go silent or why go still and there's no reason to do both you do one or the other
Yeah, because I remember watching the movie confused
He kills two stealthily and then just assaults the rest. It was like, why did you bother with the stealth?
My actual assumption was he was protecting the convoy
He was trying to if you do it stealthily you can knock it out without bullets flying
But he's like, oh no, he does maybe maybe they the people think maybe the people who made this movie
Thought that the idea of black panther implied, you know stealth and subterfuge
And they just threw that in at the beginning to like remind the audiences of it
Well, it makes for a fun scene because you're like, oh, there's the buildup
Oh, there's the reveal. Oh he knocks them out and now we get into it boom boom boom
And I was just like, well that didn't make sense as a strategy
And I guess this definitely confirms that he murders every
ever
I guess
If the secret, you know either you still take out people so they don't even know what happened and then it's like, oh mysterious or
They see you and when they wake up they remember that they got attacked by a guy in a black cat suit
And they have the scene of iron man playing here and it's so fitting for I forget which iron man one this is from
This is one so
It tells you a lot about the way that tony solves problems
He's very head on he's very head on he's very confident. He's a great sequence
Yeah, he's very fuck you. I'm iron man. Yeah, you know, i'm taking my problems head on i'm not sneaking around
You know here I am i'm here to you know, solve these issues. It's very upfront. It's very confident
Very great sequence though. Yeah, it's great sequence. So it just adds stealth pacifism
Hey, he peacefully killed those guards peacefully
Into the truck and broke all of his organs and bones
Yes
I mean at least he was nice about it
So anyway, do you think that any of those guys? Oh, yeah
I was gonna say i'll try to kick it up so we can get through this video poor guy
It's almost as if he used stealth just for the approach so that he could get the advantage of surprise
Yeah, he has no advantage
You can't beat him
Well, I kind of lost the element of surprise when he disabled every single car in the entire con
Yeah, they were all they were all on edge after he did that and not to mention what the fuck is
What advantage can he gain that guy to the car? He's immune to bullets. What can they do to him?
Yeah, why didn't he land at the back of the convoy and work his way up whenever I just
I think it's worthwhile to compare
Like you compare it to iron man and it both
Really damage. Well with iron man, it needs to be a lot of like firepower, but
With iron man, he just lands there and beats them all up
Because they can't do anything to him but with black panther even though they can't do anything to him
He just started to dude. He just just said he got to gain the advantage. I wish he would develop that what what advantage
Yeah, I mean wouldn't his advantage be the suit that protects him from bullets
I would I would label that faster and I would label it faster and more
Yeah, I mean it would have been faster and more efficient if he just attacked them outright also
Um, he's he's over. I had a lot of criticisms of that opening scene in um,
I get like I can't remember where it was
But like skipping over my points for why the film is broken if he comes to a conclusion at the end of this that see
Black panther isn't so bad
I'll be pretty annoyed if he's ignored all the good points by his own standard if you know what I mean
Because your black panther was how long sorry that came out wrong. Um the video
40 minutes
Geez because his his criticism video is shorter
than
The one it's responding to well
If you remember rags you're not allowed to be longer than the original if you're going to make something good
Oh, okay. I got you. I got you. Anyway, we will continue self just for the approach
So he could get the advantage of surprise and then once he'd given himself
Well, why would he need that's thing? He doesn't need the advantage of surprise using stuff anymore
Use stealth just for the approach so he said that he had nothing
Yeah, nothing to gain from using spell and then once he'd given himself away
He didn't have any advantage to answer the question at all
So he's not even listening to me. I said that
Stealth is fine with me
Especially for the reason that you want to protect the convoys you knock all these people out so they can't do what they did
To iron man in this scene
Did you get that?
But then black panther just drops I do like his logic though because you know as somebody who plays a lot of stealth games
I can tell you that even if you've been seen you can still slip away and then they don't know where you are
And so even though they know that you're around they don't know where you are
Yeah, they already knew he was around
He disabled the fucking cars and two of their guys didn't come back
They think a lion just killed them and that's like oh
It's like how bad what are those lions
Those dusted lions
Yeah, I don't know it feels like he deliberately avoided what I was trying to say there
Because he's not an idiot
You know even even before he revealed himself
He might have been scouting out the area and trying to figure out nice just invent the scene
I like how you're trying to make his own motivator now exactly. He's right in the film. So terrible
I mean stop writing the film for them
Stop making these terrible arguments
You know, I think of one of my favorite films sure shank redemption and I can't think of many instances
Where i'm sat there like now, why did they do let me let me try and figure out why they did this
You know what? I mean? It's clear. It's apparent anything that's important is apparent
The the problem is that if we got him just explains a problem he has in a film
I guarantee you I can just do this back to him with any flaw
I could be like what you don't understand is that this was happening blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
And then you'll be why didn't ultron create more than one cool version of himself?
Why didn't he just create like two vibranium ultrons?
Even though like a flattened by iron man both times. Oh, no, it was it was it was
Vibranium one remember? Yeah, it was four vision and iron man at the same time, right?
He had enough to create all the shitty robots
But why didn't he just make five or ten like awesome vibranium ultron and then type them like fucking horcrux to see
Your argument against that could be well, he's he's arrogant. So he did something
Purposely done dude i'll do a better
He had exactly enough vibranium to only make that suit and whatever device
Exactly. Yeah, and the film doesn't put its effort into doing that at all
But it could have and this is the thing you're writing the fucking scenes
Anyway, well, yeah, maybe that's what's going on
He's literally immune to these weapons not getting a strong vibe of intelligence with this approach here, but you know, oh, dude
Maybe that's the point
Oh boy
You don't want to also after this first seven minutes. You don't want to be saying that
Yeah, especially because of the comma after you and there should be punctuation
But that's just like really reveal himself and actually get into the fight, you know, maybe maybe that's what's going on
He's literally immune to these weapons not getting a strong vibe of intelligence with this approach here
But he's already commented on how I made some decent criticisms and I I made him laugh too
So yeah, it's a bit weird. Yeah, I can't wait for him to see this stream
You can see us for two hours. Call it a minute. Our biggest defense is that we make them so long. Nobody wants to watch
I'm not gonna watch them for that. So they
So he's been six minutes on the one little point at the beginning and even that's wrong. So
Maybe that's the point
Uh, I cut a bit out here, but that wasn't clear so I decided to do this
I mean, okay
Apparently vibranium is such an incredible metal that it skyrocketed wakanda to a futuristic age and technology and architecture
But perhaps not in the general market that's available to the populace. What about this market doesn't look advanced to you?
Um, are you?
Are you fucking kidding me? The only thing that looks advanced is the train in the background
And even then it looks like a bus
It just looks like a normal look at how dirty it is. Look at all the dust that's getting kicked up
It looks like a little straw. Can you see the straw on the left or the right? Sorry
On the roof is like straw. Yeah. Yeah, there's bamboo and well, I mean I like tile or something
Downtown detroit looks more advanced than this. It looks like there's it's looked like it looks like they're setting up a story for a
two-class society
It does doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like this is the lower
Is this the story that this movie's going to go into about the lower class and the upper class, you know
Is this like an all is is wakanda an oligarchy?
You know are is there is this like, you know, apparently this looks advanced
You know revolutionary france. I wanted to know what about this image looks advanced at all to him the gerbil too
I mean honestly the original halo 2
Uh city level in the like I think it's like the second or third level of the game
Yeah, new mombasa looks more advanced than this and that's in africa. That's in uh, yeah, that's in africa
Well, there's someone on the discord who shared a bunch of pictures of somewhere in africa
That's uh more modern than the rest of it and it looks yeah
Africa is not um is not fully underdeveloped like a lot of people think it is it does have cities
Yeah, there are cities and technologies and tv's and internet and cars
It's not just a bunch of people living in straw huts. That's the unless they're in wakanda. I guess
Wakanda is less advanced than yohannesburg. I suppose this is not the way my mind goes when I think futuristic
This is not someone said uh, this is almost wakanda on a budget
Only different to what we have over here. It doesn't look quite as commercialized
There are signs sign banner sign banner sign street corners stores shops
And this is the problem a lot of people are like, oh it's because maula doesn't appreciate culture and i'm like here's the thing
Look at the scene take out the gerbil tube train
That's a real place
Well, let's put it this way when you take out the cgi stuff, which is all the stuff in the background
Yeah, yeah, this is a photograph you'd be like that bus is unusual. It must be like a theatres. Yeah
Like seriously though if like this could I mean it looks like an actual place from actual africa
Just take out the gerbil tube and you're like, okay. It's just it's just moderately sized city in africa
Why did why did someone just say getting a mention from sargon isn't good?
It's like okay, it's a bit of a random comment, but I uh, I can't judge what sargon likes by the way
He's a fan of predator
So as far as it goes, okay
It really screams primitive
What you think people reach a certain level of technology and this somehow negates their need for things like baskets?
We then get a royal entrant. Wait, if the
What?
Why did he treat my point that way?
That is that is interesting
I mean that's what he took from what I said
That's oof. We'll let let me zoom to the basket instead of the fucking straw roof like
Yeah, good job. Dooming into the fucking the dirt floor and the dust everywhere
And the tattered signs and all the you know, what looks like poverty everywhere
But all the baskets just ignore the the whole rest of the scene and even then it doesn't help
But there's nothing there that really screams primitive. What you think people straw screams primitive?
Yeah, we'll reach a certain level of vendors on dirty streets does kind of scream primitive
It's almost like they don't have enough space. That's the one why they didn't expand earlier on
Yeah, this is a very densely, you know packed. Well because they're passive for me
Ah, right. Okay, so they just put up with living like this
Also, this is a one-way street
If there's a bus coming the other way then
How does it get through? Yeah, this isn't even see that's what's so interesting. That's pretty bad urban planning. Yeah, being poor as fuck isn't cultured
The gates their need for things like
Baskets we then get a royal entrance for black panther as he approaches his mother and sister
And in relation to the cars that were disabled by the black panthers balls in the beginning his sister says
How many times do I have to tell you just because something works doesn't mean it can't be improved
This line is a commentary for the point of the film itself
But here it just means that he needs to update his balls
Okay, man, that joke was funny the first time
But if you keep repeating it to the extent that it becomes the only joke in this video
Accurate to what he said. And yeah, that's the thing it doubles up as a joke is that she's actually saying that he needs to update
his balls
I mean I stated a fact and now you're like stop making jokes
And besides yeah, I keep the ball joke going throughout I found it funny. I don't care if you don't find it funny
There you go. It's objective boys
It is gonna work then we then cut to london and we see oh look it's creed
That's a good movie
And I like creed creed is looking at ancient artifacts while getting them explained by some lady
He gets rather flustered when she implies that the artifacts were discovered and corrects here
These things were not paid for by this woman's ancestors. They were stolen just like they stole
Everything else brushing over whatever it is. You're implying here because I genuinely can't tell what it is. I'm implying that
Kilmong is saying that white people have stolen everything which is awkward as fuck
The idea that white people haven't achieved anything themselves and they stole it from everyone else is fucking wrong
Like that's a real thing people believe
Yeah, like there are people out there who tried to book flights to akonda and also I mean if they didn't think it was
under
stolen
Your your mike's all uh, your your mike's coming out a lot fringy. Sorry. I mean
They didn't steal it directly from Wakanda though. Did they?
Stolen from a tribe that must have stolen it from Wakanda and they probably weren't white
and so yeah, but that can't be true because
Because then people would know about Wakanda
I don't know
And I don't know about this
Just to clarify right because a lot of people in the comments section were like why did you keep showing jesse from breaking bad?
Whenever you talk about something creed said and the point is that I could make a counter argument
But it's going to devolve into fucking race conversation in my chat
So i'd rather just which is a yeah what he's saying is very awkward to listen to
It was really awkward to do in the cinema
They they knew who would be watching this movie and they knew that there would be a segment of people who watch this movie
Who want to hear things about white people?
I mean
Did I remind you of the end where?
Killmonger's dying and he's like put me back into ocean so I can be with my ancestors
Which like but you're from lakant
From arkland he's from arkland and if
If he's referring to how
It's like if he's referring to like the the common ancestor we all have it's like, okay, so everyone could drop in that ocean
That's right. There weren't there were no wakandan slaves
So that's the thing all black people are related to all black people black people
It's one big family. It would be you know, anybody who says this has never met an actual african person
I'm just going to say that as somebody who has because one of them isn't like
I'd have to clarify the dialogue
I'd have to clarify the dialogue as far as I remember
He says something like this wasn't discovered it was stolen
Just like everything else you guys steal or something like that. It was some kind of comment
And it was the first in the film where I was like, whoa
Okay, like that came out of nowhere and there's a lot of them
That's not the only one you get the fucking colonizer comments as well
And I will confirm i've worked with some og africans, right? They are not like african americans
No, they're different
That's probably on me. I'm quite stupid. This is wrong
She makes no claim at all that her ancestors paid for these artifacts. No, I said that he said that I didn't say that she claimed
Who I I can't remember what the actual dialogue is exactly again. I'd have to watch the film
She said something like it was found in this particular place and he said like nah, it's
Whatever. Yeah, like it would be the point of the scene is he's saying it wasn't found. It was stolen
And
Besides uh, maybe I made that mistake fair enough
Like I'll just for the sake of of I don't know my own video 100. I made it a few months back
I'll let that one slide
It's common knowledge that a huge number of the foreign artifacts on display in britain was stolen
And for someone claiming to be an expert making any kind of claim to the country would be laughable
Anyway, this whole part is just but I was criticizing killmonger not here
Yeah
Yeah, because you're racist and he was referred
Yeah, like okay
Whatever the description of the scene with vague allusions to things the movie might be doing wrong
Turns out the lady has been poisoned and the medical team called in to help for some reason hired golem
Or golem forced his way in like you've got to know that that was a joke
But I guess I should have said it in a more jokey tone
I was you should have just said this is a joke by the way
Like they hired golem as if they went to lord of the rings will
Like I was I understand that he's probably going to say don't you know that they could have you know?
They would have been on they would have been waiting there the whole time and they dressed up as paramedics
But they weren't actually i'll be like yeah. Yeah, I get it. I get that. I was making a joke
The entire medical team was planted, right?
Right, please tell me you understand that it was a joke. This whole part is just very vague
It's all sort of like is he criticizing the film? Is he not it sort of so he did get the impression
I might have been making a joke. He got some oh, so that's the second time that you've assumed the worst
um
Potential awesome sounds like criticism, but when you actually think about it, he's not really said anything about the film
So i'm just going to skip on well, I still I still have to summarize plot to make sure you follow along
I don't have to spend the entire video criticizing
I've got to establish the facts and then tell you how they contradict other facts. That's how I do my videos
Yeah, but remember that's not the right way to do criticism if you that you're making
You're supposed to talk about vague thematic elements
And I can already tell you the reason techniques I made sure to keep that scene in as well
It's really important. It's because killmongers out of the film for like an hour and 10 minutes
And i'll be like oh and now he's back. Remember him from all the way back in this fucking scene
Actually think about it. He's not really said anything about the film
So i'm just going to skip on past it to the part where he talks about the coronations think about it
He hasn't said anything about the film. Don't think about fucking wakanda but think
Scene apparently in the process of being crowned king wakandan tribes are encouraged to challenge the current ruler in mortal combat
Potentially resulting in either one of their deaths and for this the black panther's powers are taken away
So that the fight is fair. Why in the fuck would the most advanced culture in our time be using trial by combat to dictate?
So you guys follow along with that right you don't think i'm crazy
That's what i'm saying i'm
Extremely curious what he's going to say do we need to explain why it's bizarre to have trial by combat in the most advanced culture
And on on on earth or is are people satisfied by the answer?
It's culture
I can literally not think of a country that runs by this metric today
Well, at least what we notice is that there is a correlation with scientific advance and just general enlightenment as to species
In every society in the world
Yeah, it's just it in plastic
Trial by combat basically create it's there's a reason nobody uses that stupid shit anymore
Because that it's just dumb. It doesn't make any sense
Well, that's yeah, exactly but i guarantee he's gonna say it's a culture thing
Here we go
What society based on the progress of technology and medicine and protection in general would allow the strongest person to rule rather than the smartest
Or generally speaking the best suited let's gloss over for a minute the fact that them being
Technologically advanced doesn't mean they have to be politically advanced and talk about
Well, but generally in all examples
Theoretically he's right
But it's since when do you get a culture that's got the most technologically advanced systems that also happens to be the most culturally primitive people
Yeah, these are the kind of things that you find in science fiction novels and episodes of star trek
And remember like these guys are aware of other systems
So i'm not yes, they know about like western civilization and the america's and europe and australia and
Asia, they know the rest of the world exists
Well, they also do like the ape noises when they come and teens
So I wonder if you know, I would just like them to think about that
I mean if if we see an example of like
Like every time tachala was challenged everybody realized that the guy challenging him
Probably not the best choice
If they can notice that trend that these violent aggressors are trying to become king
Why would they not try and change the system?
Exactly. That's that's what i'm trying to say with this
It's like your system allows the most aggressive and body-built people to rule that doesn't sound right, but they're pacifists
Remember killbanger and the guy who did the oh
In the mountain or whatever the first two people in the history of wakanda to
Kind of be violent and wanted the king too
Yeah, I remember world war one and two are raging across, you know the continents of
Europe and and asian stuff like that and
Yeah, all sorts of these conflicts empires rise and fall
Turn the visitings to the babylonians to the asyrians and all this stuff happened the romans carthaginians all that
And nobody says wait a second. We should you know this stuff happens
Like maybe we should do something
Just go with it
It makes enough sense
But the actual systems wakanda has in place the first detail you seem to have missed is that tribes put forward warriors to represent them
It's not just the strongest person that rule. Why would they put anyone but the strongest? How are you gonna win the weakest?
Yeah, why would they?
I think the
The tribe becomes the ruling candidate right the whole tribe becomes the ruling authority
Based on the strength of someone let's put it this way
I don't know. I think what he's saying is whoever wins their tribe becomes in charge
Pretty much, but it would still be led by the guy who who fought well
Yeah, of course, and he would just be a monarchy and underneath him. There would be basically a cabinet of advisors
Because nobody's allowed to disagree with what the king does because kill it has a
Effect someone said made the strongest pacifist to win
To me this is like going okay
We want trump is our candidate and the way to win the political race is a game of chess
It's like do we I don't think we should put trump up for that. Can we put some else?
Like I don't know like and then you go. Okay, so this one is the javelin throw to get the presidency
It's like all right. We're gonna be
Who we not when our party is good at shaft and then you go. Okay, there's a trial by combat. All right
Well, john cena, you're now the president of the united states, but first on the agenda. He's like, oh fuck
And there's the thing he's it's almost like he's arguing. Yes, the strongman wins, but at least the tribe controls like no
I also wonder if like they don't use steroids
Maybe one of the people who tries to gallon secretly takes steroids and like throws them off the cliff. Yeah, exactly
And what if they find out after the fact if uh,
This film is shown to have this a very flawed system the person who is established as ruler rules with an iron fist
Nobody can question them
So what's this tribe gonna do if they end up disagreeing with the strongman they put out to win?
even even european
um
monarchies didn't work like this they still
Eventually had governments and conflicts between the church and the
And the crown like it was never just one guy in charge of every
Plus you have to remember that
Wakanda's been around for thousands of years using the system at no point. I guess did someone win and then say
eradicate all the tribes that aren't us
Apparently not
This is a system that practically screams genocide
This is this is my this is a really big issue with it. There was no crazy people and no ambitious people that ever became king
apparently
Yeah, because of course in the middle of central africa and ancient times
And that's the thing this this guy would be like, well, yeah, that's what the film tells us and i'm like, that's okay
I don't believe that it's like that's fucked up
It's ambiguous whether or not this warrior has to become the ruler of wakanda
It's not a big holiday
Why is it there then?
It's not even ambiguous
The guy who wins is the king of wakanda now. Why else would you come here?
Don't know what he means. Come there to fight over mundane maths 100 000 subscribers play button
But yeah, they
They literally like crown and inaugurate or whatever killmonger the second he beats thingy. It's like
Obviously that's that's how it works
And what's so crazy is that they crown him and he knows literally where all of his enemies currently are standing
And he doesn't say all right now he doesn't say kill them
That's the other thing I didn't understand
So you had like six or the other four clans, right?
And then one of them suggests, uh this this fighter called jim and then jim gets beaten then the the over to the left
They go. Okay, so now it's time for our fighter and freaking charlotte's like
Can we have a break it's like no
Like no the strongest wins you're weak now
And I guess there's never been a point when they just let it so maybe two people fight and they're both really tired at
The end of it and people they just kill both of them while they're on the ground like trying to get their breath
Yeah, they they explain so little about this system. They like deliberately avoid it because it's so stupid
It's like this. How does this work?
It's ambiguous whether or not this warrior has to become the ruler of wakanda
If they're winning the throne for their tribe and not for themselves, it seems pretty you just invented that mate
No, that but what about um when killmonger? He doesn't have a tribe. He's not from what he he's not from wakanda
So when he won what tribe won for him?
That's actually yeah
I don't know how that even then it's just a different kind of injustice because the winner just has to snap his finger
And say my tribe gets privileged status
Which is
It's like, you know, like every one remember shuri's position as like scientist person
She would be removed because she's a part of tachala's people
So you just get a random dude who's never seen any of this technology before and he's like, yeah, i'll be science dude
I guess. I don't know. It sounds like australian parliament
Yeah, it's a system that tries to protect itself
Like there's no reason for people like shuri and those who are in positions of privilege in the government who are high up on
The hierarchy to do whatever they can outside of the rules to ensure that someone from their tribe wins the contest
Remember guys, uh, so figure out what's right with this movie. You just need to think about it
Let's just think the fundamental for this though. It comes down to he's like it's not necessarily true the blah blah blah
And it's like you you just settle this shit. That's not in the film
So whatever has no point in responding to it because you just invented it
Reasonable that they can just volunteer someone else to take their place once they've won it probably the person chosen by the
That would be very
Maxanimous of all of them and not to mention it's not in the film
This is something that could very easily have been in the film to explain this better
But you've just invented it to make the film make more sense
This is what people do with the last jedi is what people do with if this is how it works
What is even the point of the trial?
If if the person wins isn't necessarily the king, why would you not just have an election?
Yeah, why would you not just have an election?
and if they wanted to have something similar to this idea that all they would have to do is
You know it is time to choose and you know
It is you know, 10 years have gone by five years have gone by whatever it is time to do the challenge of the
juju up the mountain or whatever and so it's it's going to be a test of strength and um
Wisdom and all this stuff like you have you can't just be strong. You have to be smart and resourceful
Like a game of japanese. Yeah. Yeah, it's like a it's like a multi-tiered test. See who's the best ruler
They didn't have to go with just yeah, this is the strongest person wins because might makes right
turn that pesky braid off
You'll also notice that none of the four tribes actually expected the ceremony put forward a challenger and a shocked when the jabari
tribes show up and try to take the throne this is presumably because
Yeah, I mean that's that doesn't we can't infer anything from that
That's almost strange that none of them want to actually take the throne. They just let tachala do it like, okay
Yeah, there's
What would we because they show how bitter they are and i'm just like?
I mean, it's right there. Just also why are you not doing it?
Why does he keep showing my video in slow motion whenever he's talking? Why couldn't he put his own visuals up for his points?
I don't know. I don't know almost like i'm criticizing his editing like
Specter the ceremony put forward a challenger and a shocked when the jabari tribe show up and tried to take the throne
This is presumably because the ceremony at this point is more of a formality than anything. Oh, wow
What wow way to invent another scene
Wow
I missed the memo that it was just a formality. Yeah, apparently it's just a surprise if someone ever challenges them
It's like sure man. Okay, tachala. Um, by the way at your initiation
Technically, somebody could just show up and kill you hey, man
But it probably won't it supports his pacifist theory, doesn't it?
Yeah, just invent that that piece of dialogue that we never heard but sure, you know, honestly now all i'm thinking is
What if a tribe just had a motto who comes up and shoots him in the head after they take away the power
And it's like all right. Well you execute him now who's next in line. Oh surey i'll fight surey
Oh, I won i'm the king now
What you're telling me nobody just came up with that simple plan just kill him let your guy get killed and then take over
uh
This that's the thing
That's why I said I was so curious how he tries to defend this because I think this is like the most indefensible thing in the
film it's so stupid
And he keeps making me think of more things that are wrong than I initially thought and he keeps inventing dialogue
He should be on our side
We we could we would be talking about how you could have improved this to make it make more sense
But no, he's he's inferring stuff and being like see that's how good it is
What like that's not what happened?
And is it who is like and who can challenge him what if an outsider challenges him
What if anybody challenge him and they just say
Then you'll be a then that'll just weed out the weak ones
I'm pretty sure you have to you have to be from one of the tribes to be able to challenge but then again
How did I guess to uh?
Kill mongo was add to the throne. He was part of the royal family
It has to do with say you're part of the tribe now, I guess he was in to charlotte's tribe technically then is he
I guess sorry
I don't know whatever and a shocked when the jabari tribe show up and tried to take the throne
This is presumably because the ceremony at this point is oh, oh also
That's that's just that doesn't even help any way to say that you have to be in a tribe
To potentially become king because that just implies that wakanda is an oligarchy
That has privileged classes of those who can and cannot rule
You know
It's more of a formality than anything else just like at a wedding when they ask if anyone knows whether there's a he's comparing trial
By combat to a wedding. It's like a wedding
Reason the couple cannot be married or in england where the queen apparently legally owns old dolphins
No one expects the queen to stuff. The fuck are the same, dude
How are you comparing these things?
Oh, man, the entire plot whether or not the leader of the country the plot relies on this being taken very seriously
It's not a formality
The because the whole killmonger having his way in is through. Oh, yeah, this is how he wins
Turkey at thanksgiving. So right now. Hold on. I want to double check something
Um, I will double check it but while we keep watching
Not going to zoos and taking home the dolphins. No one really expects anyone to yell things out at a wedding
Okay, because there's no point to take home all the dolphins in england to buckingham palace
There's a point to rule the country so different. I can't believe he's comparing these this is ridiculous
And if there was a character in the movie
If there was a character in the movie that said oh this trial by combat shit
It's more of a formality and then to charlotte's like I hope so and then it plays out the scene
That would make more sense. But you've just you've invented this never happens. I have I have now confirmed my suspicions
So in the challenge before anybody challenges him they take away the power of black panther
so
This formality what they would do is before they even know if anybody
Take away your magic powers
Yeah, it makes your mics off and on a little bit. Go ahead and unplug reblog and then say again
Is it better now? Is this consistent now? Yeah, it sounds at this point
Yeah, um, I double check the scene so they take away the magic power before challenge
So if this was just a formality
They take it away
Nobody challenges so now they got to go through all the effort of giving him back the magic power for this formality
I guess this guy would argue that that's all a formality too
So it's a formality to just make things difficult for you
Yeah, and I guess
They're relying on I guess doing something that's a little uncouth
But the reward is you get to be the dictator of wakanda
People aren't going to give a shit if it violates social protocol if you get to be the dictator of wakanda
Just to keep the king in check since he knows his leadership can be challenged he has to lead fairly no
It encourages him to not it encourages him to kill all who would oppose him
Taking home the dolphins
No one really expects anyone to yell things out at a wedding
It appears that the system exists just to keep the king in check since he knows his leadership can be challenged
He has to lead fairly this doesn't mean that who but it doesn't have anything to do with fairness
It's all of strength. That's full of shit because
T'Challa's not even led yet. Let's let's say for example
You have crazy ape tribe and the guy in there is thinking to himself
I can't wait to be king because then i'm going to literally just take over planet earth
And then he's like yeah guys i'm going to lead wakanda to a new age
Fights and kills T'Challa becomes king and then there is literally nothing wakanda can do
They can't stop him
And besides we've already established that you have to be in one of the tribes to even be able to challenge the king
In combat so that wouldn't encourage the king to be fair to wakanda
It would encourage him to basically butter up all the tribes and keep them
Either if he doesn't just outright massacre them which is of course
What would actually happen in the real world because we see this all the time with royal lines killing off other royal lines
And other bloodlines and things like that so that their kids can get the throne
It would encourage like I said, this is this is basically
Just encouraging genocide or a privileged class either of them are bad one's worse than the other
But this is a terrible system like he just implied like they do this so that it's like yeah
We're being fair. This king bubble boy is like you can be challenged in case you think he's unfit for rule and stuff
It's just like what are you talking about this guy's actually unironically arguing for the system of wakanda
Let's not adopt it. Okay guys, I don't want to adopt this system whoever wants to rule wakanda can if they're strong enough
This is a tradition that's upheld with a mutual understanding and trust between the tribes
This system may not be as flawless as democracy trust between the tribes in this system
They are going to backstab each other you just said this system may not be as flawless as democracy
Maybe
Yeah, there could be some potential issues. There's some things that could happen. I suppose this is
legitimately hurting my brain
Like we could have a representative republic or we could fight on a waterfall
I think you should suggest that you should run on that
Get a party going trial by combat man
Is
But it's by no means as ridiculous as you're bending it out to be in fact
No, it's kind of more ridiculous than I applied it if you think about it
I'd say the only real backwards part of it is the actual use of physical combat
But since it doesn't seem they ever expect to need to use that and wakanda is clearly that's the only backward
That is the part that is it
Yes, the only bad part of it is the only part of it that exists what?
Correct. That means you just said it's 100 bad now. Congratulations confused. What the hell feel backwards
It is one out of one part bad the actual use of physical combat. What else is it? It's a trial by combat
that doesn't even
what
Since it doesn't seem they ever expect to need to use that and wakanda is clearly what do you mean?
They don't expect people to use that
This is literally the only time your tribe gets a chance to take over wakanda and and rule it by what you consider to be
the better
systems
Of course, they would take the opposite
We have shown that they didn't but then actually know they did also what happens if people challenge at the same time
They never show that exactly. It's fucking in what world in what universe would this not be?
literally tribalism
You have trial by combat with no combat what the trial by trial by combat between multiple tribes with no combat
Wow, I thought this would be I thought that he would have said like yeah
This is a fair point the systems are targeted moving on but no he's making
A defense of it. It's so weird because he's fallen back on a lot of what he's just said with the sad dig
It's like yeah, the combat part is stupid
As a nation that cares a great deal about tradition, it's understandable why they haven't got rid of it yet on top of that
It's understandable why they haven't gotten rid of it, dude
I love it. It's like why have we gotten rid of guillotine executions?
This is part of our culture, isn't it?
I was cheap and quick
Wakanda is clearly a nation that cares a great deal about tradition
It's understandable why they haven't got rid of it yet on top of that. What is with the location and everyone's outfits?
Well, I would imagine after the first, you know, genocidal, you know action taken people would have been like
Maybe we shouldn't do this and well at which point they would be killed for bringing that up
But yeah, I mean why why aren't the germans still burning the jews? I thought that was tradition
Because the jews control hollywood
Oh, that's true
So the weird war paint to bring it back
This is starting to feel as though they only bring in the high tech shit when it suits the story
Otherwise we end up in a tribal land doing tribal stuff and things things that aren't allowed to exist in high tech places
Scenic arena loca. I didn't say that
I did not say that
What I was
I was asking why are they fighting inside a like detractable waterfall?
It's the most bizarre thing ever
Do you guys remember what they're all standing as well in places that just makes you think how the fuck did you even get there?
Yeah, you would basically need an airdrop or a grappling hook to get there
I love how he's like bringing up this ridiculous straw man how you have not said any of this
In that beforehand he uh
Was saying that you were just making things up
Yeah, we haven't talked about what they're wearing at all awareness at all. Well, this is the problem for me
It's like you've got all this high tech shit
You even have shuri who's in like a scientist outfit if you guys remember wait, it's like a white thing
It's it's cut close to it. But it's just like oh suddenly now they're all wearing these
culturally appropriate quote unquote things
Also, she's wearing shells
Where did she get the shells from?
There's no ocean
So where did they get the shot? I don't know just just I'm not saying that makes me worse
I'm just asking just just saying I noticed something
various types of traditional african dress quote unquote war paint which again is traditional and still used
Nobody's criticism is that they were traditional ceremonial attire. We do that today. We will probably do that into perpetuity
Yeah, like a kilt if you count that yeah, exactly people wear kilts and people wear uniforms and officers will carry cavalry sabers and in fluffy
Fusilier hats and things like that. It's just nobody
Nobody is using that as it's the system. We're questioning the system, man
And you know what maybe
Again to offer him some benefit of the doubt if I did say there's no way someone would have funky face paint in an advanced
Society, then yeah, there are ways for that to happen and maybe I was brash. Yeah, I mean if I have makeup in our society
Yeah, like it's it's it's obviously a more focusing on the complete split between how advanced half of Wakanda is versus the
the other half
And the other stuff the random as I just said in in his clip
I was like it seems to be whenever the plot
Needs it we get to be advanced and when it doesn't when we want to go back to be like tribal culture stuff
It's just like oh no more technology in any way shape or form
It is interesting these things aren't incompatible with technology
Having technology doesn't mean a nation has to put aside its traditions
Especially when they're doing as if I said again as if I said they are forced to or something
All right, and it's not none of these things are something that mauler said in his video
So why you're even bringing these up and pretending that he did say it is beyond me
It was probably because you have to make up shit
And even if he was you could argue that as a society progresses
Traditions that are counterproductive to the well-being of society generally fall away. Yeah, they do they typically do. Um, yeah
That happens everywhere on earth eventually old traditions are not necessarily forgotten or they're remembered in symbolic ways
But we don't actually you know fall enact them or do them still
But yeah, it's pretty jarring a lot of parts of wakanda are just like suddenly techless entirely
And just like huh because I don't know about you guys
But some people growing up in wakanda might be like i'll stick to all the cool tech stuff
I don't really I don't follow in with the traditional. It's just it feels so um, it's not blended is what i'm trying to say
It's so very jarringly split. It's almost like don't forget we're in africa guys
Yeah, it like I don't seem like people like oh, that's racist. I was like, no, it just feels like
They didn't give a shit
And it didn't show the effect that having high tech and an advanced culture would have on their traditions
I think maybe if I put it that way he would have
Felt better about it things like oh, I don't know literally a coronation. Oh, what's this horse drawn carriages?
Traditional clothes that guy has what do you know?
They're not bringing up points that I made in favor of us
They're not they're not wearing straw dresses and dancing and killing each other, mate
Also, this is from how long ago this footage 1950s
Okay, and what's the coronation of point elizabeth the second was yeah
And we're talking they're doing something that would have been absolutely normal what like a hundred years ago at most
While the wakandas are doing something that was normal like over thousands of years ago
Well, yeah, I mean in the 50s cars were only about 50 years old
There would have been people alive who remember horse drawn carriage. Exactly. We'll look at it this way
A horse drawn carriage is a sign of wealth
Well, yeah, because people who own horses have money, yeah
When light bulbs came out only the rich could afford to burn
Isn't this supposed to be one of the most technologically advanced nations in the world?
What is this movie? It must be trash this fictional country of britain is ridiculous. So you could never really exist
Like this this is a terrible fucking video so far like this is awful. We're only halfway right
This is awful
You just stripped the black panther's powers so easily is this a superpower you can just turn on and off with some purple juice
Does he not have a stronger claim to the black panther than just being the son of the last guy who drank the juice?
I figured it would have been in his blood or some shit in his family and his which is actually in the comics
By the way
I didn't know this at the point of writing it
But in the comics you have to be a part of a royal bloodline in order to make use of the royal juice
Which is actually better than what they did in the film, which is no anyone could do it
And you could say like no they never say anyone could do it. It's like no they never it's kind of you know, it's funny
It's the same complaint I had because i've watched iron fist season two
Um, and I wouldn't recommend watching it by the way, it's not very good. Um
But they have a similar thing where like the power of the iron fist just starts
Arbitrarily being assigned to different people
Despite the fact that it seemed like it was something you got and you had forever
And that nobody could take away from you. I kind of I kind of prefer the idea that anybody can become the black panther if they're
Like they're trying hard enough. Yeah, they try hard enough and not just
My point is that I could walk up and get the juice and i'd be good
I was gonna say my point leads into the fact that they have a lot of juice to spare and they don't provide it to anybody
But the car
What car and ized whatever black panther despite the fact you've got an entire team of people called the king's guard
That are literally meant to defend him from dying and you don't give it to them even when they go out on missions
It's like it's literal juice that makes you really hard to kill
Like to be i'm just like, okay
And then people were like, well, you can't do it for that because they're the royal bloodline
It's like no that's never said in the film which would cover it if it was set in the film
If my life was on the line, yeah, all my bodyguards. It's also not true because remember that if somebody
My car
You cut out you cut out all out there fringy
All right, the the person who beats him becomes a black panther
So that don't have to be in the royal bloodline. That can be anybody in wakanda
Sorry, i i
Steve irkle
What a strange system. Anyway, this let's hear his counter. I suppose it kind of is in his family
But I suppose you're right
The only real claim he has to it is the fact that he's been trained for it his whole life the guy from the guerilla clan
Wait, what?
Is that true though?
Is that how it works and if you are the son of the king you become the black panther
I said that seemed arbitrary to me
Yeah, they trained him for his whole life because he was the son of the king
What if he has like a cardiovascular illness and he just is not healthy and besides does that mean that he would still be?
What if he has down syndrome? My complaint was a woman. Well if he's autistic, he's actually more evolved if what if
But if yeah, if we go from just the film we get no information on this
That's my complaint
There were more questions I had there because the film doesn't have any answers for it. It's confusing to me how this works
And they just don't bother they're just like well
I think we had a conversation about this recently actually where I would I my impression from civil war was that
The black panther and the king were not one and the same
And that you had a king and you had a black panther, but they can the reason why it was
Well, they can be the same
But they're not necessarily one and the same because remember to charlotte was the black panther before he became the king
It would make more sense if they were different
Yeah, yeah, well wouldn't why would you send your king on espionage missions? What if he gets killed or captured?
You have no leadership, but they are shown to do that
In uh in the beginning I know I know
This is the thing there's so much
There's so much wheel building to do for to make black panther make sense
And that's my main position about this film is they wasted or they they just ignored it. It was like eh
At least you have stories like the sword and the stone right the sword and the stone didn't have the words arthur
Pendragon written on it, you know, it's because you have to be you know, a special you have to be a good noble person who's
worthy of it
It's not just oh you're the king's son. So
Good on you
Because their technology is being run by a child and that they scoff at tradition
Finally, he says that to charlotte couldn't keep his own father safe
So this is basically a dick of a character and whatever he means by the girl running the whole science thing
We'll probably get to that dick then attacks to charlotte and after beating the shit out of him
He says no powers. No claws. No special suit means he's just a boy
Don't forget that without the suit and the tech like the balls and obviously the flower power
To charlotte really is mostly useless. Are you kidding? No, no, i'm not
He gets his ass kicked twice
In fact the second time he falls off
Yeah, no i'm sorry, uh, that's a big problem for black panthers they made to charlotte lame
Like without his power. I think he was lame
All right. So remember that point in fucking tomb raider
Um, uh, the the one with uh, the one years and years ago, what's the the chick with the big lips and angelina jolly angelina
Okay, i'm gonna reference fucking angelita jolly's fucking tomb raider movie. That's something you can learn from
There's a scene in that film where her house gets assaulted and she doesn't have all of her fancy gear
But she still takes out the guys, right
That shows that she's a badass even if she doesn't have her her quit
Another good example would be a lot of times when tony stark isn't in his suit. They still show him as being
Doing things they do in iron man 3. He's either
Even in iron man 3 the one that's not good
You see him through and and age of ultron the not good avengers movie. You even see him do some things without the suit
Yeah, and the whole opening of captain america begins before he gets his powers
He's a good righteous principled individual even for even the first
He's still like a badass, of course with hope
Let's hear the counter give this guy a chance
I mean first of all complaining that if you take away the tools he needs to use to do his highly skilled job
Then he can't do it. It's just kind of so that's not what I said
Yeah, he does need them though
Yeah, that's what that's true. But
His point is like i'm saying he can't do black panther stuff without black panther stuff and it's like well, obviously
It's like yeah, but that's not what I said. I'm saying that tachala alone. This guy was right. Tachala on his own sucks
It's a fair criticism is why i'm not invested in his character
Yes, he only just barely wins this fight and then he gets demolished
Really because it's like yeah, no he can't if I had no computer the one marketable skill I currently have would be gone
Oh, that's not what I said a lot about that sounds a lot about that says a lot about you then
It kind of does I guess but but still that's not what I said. He's he's arguing a straw man
That's not what I took away a marksman's gun. Oh, they're fucking useless
You took away iron suit and he's not useless
You take away cap shield. He's not useless
This is so easy. He's not giving me any benefit
Take away my big-ass dick and I still got hips like fire
I
Guess the only other example I can think of is maybe like peter quill because he's just a guy
So if you take away his rockets and all that then he can't do much
But he is just a guy and he's in the team. So it's it's not the same
He's not the leader of a sovereign state
Took away a marksman's gun. Oh, they're fucking useless take away black panther's suit and juice
It's funny. He's saying all this when black panther's getting beaten by yet another dude who doesn't have the suit the tech
We're looking at black panther on the ground like
beaten
Right now on this frame
I might be on a different frame. Oh, there you go
Highly trained in combat tactics and leadership and is able to win a fight with a guy significantly larger than him
Just after being stabbed and by the way, it is very why did he get stabbed because he sucks. That's why
Uh
This is stupid. He's not even listening to me strange that dick forgot to mention the balls
Hey, you know what's still funny that joke then the man you said it was funny earlier. I'm sorry
That just didn't last on you. I giggled just a second. I literally giggled like two seconds ago because it was funny
Yeah, dick said he had no balls
I just giggled because i'm a
Yeah, and if he said the jokes are childish i'd be like absolutely he's like, yeah, you bet but laughter laughter is laughter man
Surrounding spear people are all poking closer and closer to raise the tension though
I just wonder if they realize that they are dictating the length of the fight since the challenges can't fucking move with them being
That close. Yes. I I do think they realize they're doing that actually I think that's probably specifically why they're there
What you think the spear people are in control of how long this fight is allowed to last that's my point
Why would that even be a thing? Yeah, that's why doesn't one of the spear guys stab them and be king
I was commenting on like the the film making so he's it's true
The camera keeps panning to these people going like whoo
Oh and getting closer and closer and you're like, oh god, we're getting to the climax
Like you feel that as an audience member
But I was just like take a step back and realize these guys getting closer and closer forces the fight to end
They're not letting it end fairly. They're making it not to mention this doesn't this doesn't happen when he fights killmongers
Yeah, are they are they like thereby committee? Are they like an interloping mariachi band equivalent?
He has the sarcastic response reasons like yeah, obviously
No, he's not catching what i'm saying at all, is he?
It's like everyone in this scene doesn't want to be there shrugging their shoulders all day watching this fight
Like can I come down now? They're like guys push forward push forward at the fight push forward. They're like, okay
I do think they realize they're doing that actually I think that's probably specifically why they're there
I get a strong h bomber guy vibe from that little bit there by the way
super smug
It's like it doesn't address the point. It's like smugness is a replacement for an argument
Well, he keeps going back to the balls joke
The rules actually that anyone can just challenge after another challenge has been done because that would just mean that I would wait
You know if I was a member of one of these clans
I would allow someone else to challenge first and then go in second because you know
You're probably gonna have better chances, but fuck it. Let's just move on
Yeah, if more than one tribe had wanted to challenge for the throne that really would have been a valid point
You'd raise that wouldn't why wouldn't know it is a point because why didn't multiple tribes not do that
Not not just that that implies does that never happen in history? And and finally I said if
I said if
I didn't say this should have happened. I said I think that's how it works
I think the fact that didn't happen like that raises more questions. I want to know why other tribes weren't on that shit
It's like are you telling me that like every tribe aside from one was like yep to charles the perfect leader
We don't have our own ideas at all. Yeah, you think back at clan
Ferret or whatever. They're like, hey guys, they're electing the new king. Do you want to go and no?
Okay. All right. Yeah, we're staying home this time
Yeah, one one of the guys with the big lip frisbees want to do something like I can smack him with my lip
It could dick a spear. Uh wolf. That's an at-home
Okay
Okay
But the power of the black panther truly is from a plant it gets crushed up into juice you drink the juice
Then you become a superhero. It's that simple
It's essentially the super soldier program that hydro are running only it's way better and it comes from a plant a plant
They have like 50 of that grow back. Okay, why the fuck wouldn't wakanda supply this drug to its military?
The people who guard the leaders it would make them so much better at their jobs considering how easily this power is provided
Especially considering how much danger they put in throughout this film and how one of them is even killed
I can't remember if any more than one is but yeah
I'm curious how he's going to defend this one. There are so many to spare. That's just silly
What's with the counter juice by the way?
It's said in the beginning that the initial flower power came from plant life being infected by the vibranium
Did it also create a counter flower power at the same time? You guys follow that?
Yeah, it's pretty odd that they have a counter juice. It's like how does that work? Where did that come from?
Okay, here i'll play the devil's advocate
Well, it's it's really simple the guy who wins the fight and is the new black panther
All he has to do is say destroy the antidote so no one can take this power away from me
Yeah
But uh, hang on
You know what tinfoil hat maybe he's going to argue
That we're supposed to assume that taking flower power twice negates it
Right, but what what is the dosage of the flower?
Is it like per swallow or is it per serving or swallow or
What's the thing? Is it one fruit per is it one each one?
But hey, you know, he doesn't over he hasn't said that so i'm not gonna listen. Let's leave him alone
He hasn't said that's just silly
I mean actually I guess that it exists for pretty much the same reason that any antidote exists and that is that humans reverse
How is it an antidote what
Wouldn't an antidote be for something that's bad. I'm not asking why it exists in terms of like functionality
I'm saying where did it come from? How is it created? Like I don't need to know what its function is. I understand that
You think that imagine a movie where the bad guys their whole thing was that hey we basically found
You know african kryptonite
Let's use this against black panther
And then black panther has to fight without his powers for a while
But he still kicks ass because he's a he's a badass character. Yeah, that'd be cool
But that's the movie they didn't make yeah, and i'm happy by the way for you to go
Okay
Yeah, it doesn't really make much sense that there was also a plant growing that apparently negates the flower power
But can you ignore it and i'd be like, yeah, yeah, it doesn't it's a bit weird
And it allows them to have their trials by combat, which is why it's kind of a problem
But i'd let it go but no he's like no it makes sense because it's
Um
I'm not even sure. Let me go back
It's with the counter juice by the way
It said in the beginning that the initial flower power came from plant life being infected by the vibranium
Did it also create a counter flower power at the same time?
That's just silly
I mean actually I guess that it exists for pretty much the same reason that any
Exist and that is that humans reverse engineered the juice to whoa
Okay
So he's saying that they would have analyzed it as a thing and then created a negative vision
In the same way that we do for like, I don't know
Whatever it is we do on our planet, but it's just like you just invented that that never happened in the film
Saying like that I guess why do you have to guess?
Like it really you could have easily had a line from surey so then we could be like, oh that makes sense
Because they just pulled it out of their ass
They're like, yeah, he has a juice that can remove his powers
In case in case a black panther becomes too tyrannical or evil we have this to stop him
Reate an antidote for it. I just solved your problem and it took two seconds and I didn't get paid
Really not what I included this clip to talk about
I just felt like I hadn't spoken for too long and this felt like a good of a time as any to interject something
I'm a professional you take it once and unless you have the counter juice it apparently works for life
Considering the fact that it's a regrowing plant from the first tribes who ever set foot on wakanda
You could have easily provided the entire population of wakanda the ability to heal fast and lift huge weights while being agile and fast
And you chose not to that's just silly. Is it a genuine rule that and I know that someone's going to counter with
You don't give your entire people you as the government you wouldn't give everyone tanks
I'll just be like you're improving quality of life like massively. Yeah, this isn't giving everyone tanks
It's not just making everybody healthy. We'll see if not to mention this doesn't mean that everyone gets the black panther suit
I'm talking about health improvements massive health improvements
But people who are crowned king are the only ones that are allowed to have the flower power if that's the case
And how did tochalla have this power in civil war before being crowned king and because he's apparently the warrior
And the warriors also get it as well as the kings unless the kings are old and then they don't get it
But only warriors who are the king's son get it all the other warriors. Fuck. See what I mean
It gets confusing and let's just leave it alone. I suppose it's the answer, but he's no discuss it while I go take a piss
Well, so I was looking at that waterfall for so long, you know, it's okay. It's okay, but um
I think i'm about to say I hope he plays it but like why would you ever have taken the flower power away from his dad?
Like even as you know, he dies in the explosion if he had flower power, it probably wouldn't have killed him
like to me is strange that you because what is is the concern that he might kill people or something like
I don't I don't really follow
But um, we'll wait for rags to return for the rebuttal
So how are you guys feeling about this uh, everything wrong with
My video video. Well, I'm not very impressed
I can say that I would not subscribe
Because he tackles cinema sins usually and like i'm not i'm not trying to be vain here
But like cinema sins is way easier to tackle than
I usually make my videos because i'm pissed off at the film and I usually like to get the details
Relatively, right?
So it's going to be harder to take me down compared to cinema sins
Like that's pretty much shown by the fact that he's already said he agrees with some of the stuff
I've said and skipped over lots of bits
It's also shown by the fact that he has straw manned you misrepresented your arguments not addressed your
And made things to support his good point. I could try and do some super chats while we wait for the rag arenas. Um
Okay, so going back to the beginning have a have oh he's back
All right, I will do it between videos let's let's continue anyway, is it just something
Well, no because we've already seen that that isn't true several times so, you know what?
I agree. It is kind of silly. They don't give that power to anyone else when they so clearly could
I mean, it's not film ruining for me because people in real life do silly things all the time
Ah
Patrick williams has had sex and had a son. Let's hear that again. That's a beauty
That goes in our little trophy case. Well, no because we've already seen that that isn't true several times
So, you know what?
I agree
It is kind of silly. They don't give that power to anyone else when they so clearly could I mean
It's not film ruining for me because people in real life do silly things all the time and
And let me explain to you why that defense is shit because you're assuming that nobody ever in the history of wakanda ever said
Hey, maybe we should give this to all of our warriors
Hey guys, and then why does every single king have this retarded idea throughout our entire history the chats go like it's patrick
So this is patrick
It's beautiful. Oh my god, he actually said it jesus christ. Yeah, it's it's we should probably call it. It's like your honor
My my client is insane
The temporary insanity defense for a video game or movie really any narrative
Someone said he brought up the fact that it was like if you think about it a little bit
It's just like if you think about it, they're insane
Okay
Clearly could I mean it's not film ruining for me because people in real life do silly things all the time
And as traditions that seem pretty pointless go this one isn't that bad, but you know what?
It is still pretty silly. The thing is. Yeah, we're just traditionally with this one ain't that bad, but it's silly
It's like what are you saying?
Is it is it bad or is it?
Questions you asked at the end there
You just demonstrated that you haven't really been paying attention because the answers are pretty clear
Call it patrick. The power is reserved for the black panther. The black panther does no, it's not it's reserved for the king and the black panther
Your dick which might be the king might not
Well, yeah, that's the other thing. We don't even know this for sure
The film does not explain this stuff have to be the king if the king is no longer fit to be black panther
If he's why would you ever for example, you can pass down the mantle
Also, hang on. My point wasn't that that's not the case. I know that's the case. I'm saying it's stupid
Can the black this is a small thing but can the black panther not have long hair
I don't know
I don't know
But uh, yeah, as as he sounds like he agreed with me and then said but it's displayed in the film as this is a fact
And i'm sitting here thinking like
Well, yeah, that's my problem
Precisely my problem saying things like oh if that's the case
And how did he have the power in civil war if you're really thinking about it that much
Why have you not come to the one logical conclusion that you can actually find from this the thing that actually happens?
How was to charlotte the black panther before he had been through the coronation exactly?
We know them we have to infer because the films never actually say it there's never a line that says the black panther
uh
I don't know once the king reaches a certain age once the king gets to
Something he stops being the black panther and then his son takes over until he dies and then his son also
There's a there's a fight to become the new king. It's very like vague
But i'm happy to accept that that's how it works and that I could have been more charitable to say that that's probably how it works
But I think he's already said my main point was valid though
Which is the the flower power should be delivered throughout the civilization and at least the king's god
It is it is odd
This film takes place after civil war because they have helmet zemo in custody and on the news
So shouldn't he have the power after his time in that film? How how have you thought about it?
Oh
How have you thought about the movie more than I did I please temporary insanity you can't get me now
Is his defense really that you're correct, but you thought about it
So I don't what's his point
I'm, not sure but I mean this is this is the thing
This is one of the few points I made after the major one. So even if you like you got me on this one
Which I would happily be like, okay fine
But what about the other stuff which you agreed with me on don't you think that that's more important?
Whatever, let's just keep keep on this one
I guess the timeline it fits just in case civil war is actually set after this but you haven't thought
Oh, maybe black panther doesn't have to be his dead
In civil war and it's in he's dead in black panther
No, they used they used they used vibranium juice to revive his father
On the waterfall
Besides yeah, it's it's pretty weird for me to have picked that up if I wasn't paying attention, right?
Yeah, if I wasn't thinking about it, I wouldn't have tried to get that connection
But you know because remember when you showed me civil war, right when I watched it with you
I was like asking who's this guy? Who's that guy?
I don't remember these people
God, isn't it just amazing how like every single person that defends these movies just happens to be a fucking idiot?
Dude if we keep getting quotes from people saying that these these characters are just insane like I just want to collect them
Because they're the best defense i've ever heard timeline it fits just in case civil war is actually set after this
But you haven't thought oh, maybe the black panther doesn't have to be the king
He takes a stroll down some street in wakanda
But honestly does not seem like something you could possibly see in the most advanced society in the modern age
You couldn't see this in a technological. Well, maybe let me revise my statement
You wouldn't expect it. You could see it like in the slums of maybe uh, you know, like when you have um
Blade runner for example, it's like oh, it's really advanced
But if you go to certain places it's all run down because it's like the lower class area
But that's not really I don't know if that's valid for wakanda because the whole is supposed to be a utopia as he said
Yeah, it's supposed to be a
Xenophobic pacifist utopia. So let me clarify. It's not that it's impossible
It seems very much unlikely considering the information in wakanda
But yeah, okay. It is an odd sight
Like I said when you look at the scene one would assume that there is a two-tier society
Yeah
And someone pointed out a pacifist war rhinos
I'm not killing you. My rhino is though. It's completely different. Yeah, i'll give it to him. I should have been more explicit
Particularly advanced society. Well, i'm really looking forward to your explanation of that
They got some outside grill with wood and rags propping up shelters trading and bustling as though they're in some third world country
In a heaving marketplace, right?
So this is like a third world country because it's got a busy marketplace this lens fly
No, that's no. Come on. Give me a little bit more benefit of the doubt with what I said
I'm clearly implying they're using low grade materials
They've got like barely any kind of system or control is sort of just slap dash and having the roads even paved
Exactly. It's like come on, dude. You don't if he was here right now
I would be like do you really have to sell me this short like come on
Do you do whatever by that?
You claim to be a grill propping up some rags couldn't possibly exist in the same nation as technology because of technology
Just vaguely technology is a spear by the way
It's just technology that's old and then you've got new technology when I see this
I don't think you know, this is a utopia people are walking in the streets
Like like there's not sidewalks with roads that people are using vehicles to move around
Even though there is transport and you can see it look people are walking on the tram lines
Yeah, people are walking in the tram lines. The trams have to be like, oh don't hit everybody just walking in the road
You know like in civilization we have sidewalks because our vehicles travel down the middle of the road
In our white cultures things if you have technology that means that busy marketplaces go away
Everyone that's not what I said
You know, if you think that's what I said then go ahead knows that okay
Let's skip ahead a bit until I have something else to talk about. Okay, so this well
What about my points that are actually good, man?
I know this video is called everything wrong with but could you at least give me some benefit of the doubt in terms of
What about the way you're portraying me to your audience right now? Like have I said anything reasonable?
We need everything wrong with everything that one time
Because this is the thing I showed all of h bomber guy's video and I even said there's like three different parts
I think where I was like, this is a fair point
He's actually I have to do that in my video because i'll be going through the whole thing and i'll be like, yeah, I agree
They're right
Team continues and it is revealed that this is the guy from get out. It's his farm and he he um, he farms
He farms right. He fucking farms rhinos. Why in the goddamn hell is he farming rhinos?
Baller don't you understand they're war riders therefore
Generally stationed around the impenetrable forest in kitten give it a snack. Why is this normal? What the who farms?
I just made a video where he's like finally admitting that he's flagging people and apologize. Oh good
It's only been like what three four weeks
It's been a while. It's it's been a little longer than that. Wait, what sorry?
Monday matt finally posted an apology. Oh my god
Maybe probably because he it's probably because he went to mythcon and like met people and talked with people in person
Like everyone told him he should be like dude
Yeah, because if I met him in person i'd be like do you want to what's been done with this video?
Do you want to check out that one instead of done with this? Well, it's only two and a half minutes. Oh, yeah
We'll definitely
Come on let's do it. There's no reason not to farm right like it's not a traditionally domesticated animal. Sure, but they produce
Don't use cows don't use goats don't use
You
Use rhinos
Of course, it makes it only makes sense that if you want milk, you would use a rhino
It's funny. They're supposed to be the disguised part where we look at them from the outside and go
Oh, they're just rhino farmers. How fucking confusing is that? You're like, you guys are farm rhinos
Does that not raise an eyebrow?
I feel like I have no milk
Is that not a traditionally domesticated animal sure but they produce milk they probably produce quite a lot of meat plus they produce whoa
rhino meat
Should really eat rhino
I'm just gonna put this out there. It seems like you're far more likely to die farming rhinos than any other
You guys listen, yeah, let me explain to you why we have a tiger farm because he wants milk and food
It's a hippopotamus farm. We milk the hippos just don't forget too close to that man
We have a t-rex farm for its milk. I just want to read you guys this I looked up do people eat rhinos in response to
His meat and the very first thing it comes up with is eating rhino is not at all common
Rhino meat is still quite valuable as exotic meat. There are roughly 275
Sam some matrin rhinos left. We'd like to keep some around so please don't eat rhino meat
Christ sake this is the thing right a reasonable normal human being just goes
Yeah, it's kind of silly that they're trying to farm rhinos
But no you have to defend it as someone just pointed out in chat as well
Have you noticed that this is held together with sticks and straw the uh, the rhino pen
So what happens if the rhino just feels like walking a bit further?
Obviously obviously they're using vibranium fences. Okay. I also
I looked up what animals produce milk that humans can drink
And it comes up with buffalo goat sheep camel donkey horse reindeer yak and cattle
That's definitely not rhino milk
No, where does it say rhino a just doing a google search is too much research for
All i'm thinking about is what if like if somebody sits underneath a rhino to try and milk it like what?
Takes a step back and crushes your head
You would ever do this
It doesn't want to be milked anymore and impales you on its horn
Yeah rhinos will fuck you up. What am I boss just said that's not milk you get in from the rhino
Listen it's tradition. Okay
Everyone knows that in wakanda every friday you drink the rhinos come
It just makes sense. All right
tradition
This is for clarifying
We all know the actual reason that these rhinos are here and that's the payoff in the battle
Yeah, the whole reason they're here. Yeah, but it's stupid. That's the point. They're stupid
They shouldn't be here just because you have there's no reason that technology
And rhino come drinking can't exist together in this
You know all this just makes me think of because a lot of people i'm surprised that didn't do zebras
But again zebras are not like horses. They'll kick you in the face. Anyway, you can't really
That's right. You can't really domesticate. Goats would be the assumed answer wouldn't we yeah goats cows
And if they're just because they're isolationists, they're like, oh shit cows are fucking useful as shit
They're docile. They give you milk for a long time. You can domesticate them. They um won't impale you to death
You could eat them. Apparently rhino milk is mainly water 0.2 fat
Well, that's a lot of work for not much payoff. I'm just saying
It's not a lot of payoff
Okay, this is fantastic
This is like the worst stardew valley animal you can possibly make
I I just cannot fathom that of all the defenses he could possibly make for why he's farming rhinos
Is that he had to come up with well, maybe you can milk them or eat them which literally nobody in the world does
Is that a compression maybe you can milk the rhinos
Congratulations. You are stretching it to such an insane extent that you had to make up something that no one on earth
Actually does they'd ever stay this in the film as well. They just have the rhino
They just milk the rhinos guys milk the rhino
And then whenever you need this it's normal
Who farms fucking rhinos? There's no reason not to farm rhinos. They're not
There's no reason
Just because literally nobody does it doesn't mean there's not a reason. Yeah, everybody chose not to do it. There's no reason
Guys I mean there's no reason to farm rhinos, but there's also no reason to not
Not to farm grizzly bears
someone in
Someone in chat did say a reason to farm rhinos would be to try and save their population
Which again is like, oh, yeah, that's fine
like
Battle if you would uh, yeah, if you want to save the rhinos you ride the battle the pacifist rhinos
God damn it rags
Their their horns are made of forever animal sure, but they produce milk
They probably produce quite a lot of meat plus they produce ivory a material that we can
You can't fucking kill it. Hang hang on. Does a rhino produce ivory?
I don't know
What is a rhino's horn made of
Uh, it is made up of keratin a protein found in hair fingernails and animals. So it's not ivory
It's not iron ore. It's not. Yeah, it's like the horns of many species in
Rhino horn is not made of bone. It is made of keratin a protein also found in our hair and fingernails
And if you kill a rhino's horn it grows back and that is how you do research
Okay. Okay. Okay. So let me get this straight in this man's world
in his strange
Fucked up universe you can milk rhinos
You eat them
You far you farm them because why the hell not?
And they have ivory
These are what's so just so just he's literally advocating for harvesting ivory from
Okay, yeah, there's just no reason we shouldn't fucking kill all the elephants
So anyway, let's keep
Because rhinos are in danger, but if they were a domesticated farm animal, this would no longer be an issue
He said it's not whoa
Dude if I got this right, we'll play it again
I thought he just said it wouldn't be ethical if there was a low population
But this is stopped by the fact that we can farm them
You're saying it's ethical once you're able to multiply their numbers that you kill them eat them and take them
Like i'm not i'm not saying i'm trying to imply that he's like
Going at this from from a point of view that um is like it's a necessity
But now he's like turned it into well, no it's ethical if you can keep creating them
I mean, I I understand what he's saying is like if there were only two chickens left in the world
You could say it's unethical to make them extinct
But if there were a billion chickens in the world, then you're like, okay now it's more ethical to eat
Isn't the ethical principle still the same?
Kind of I mean it depends if ivory wants the conservation of nature
Like you can still eat meat and be you know pro nature because you're not making anything extinct
Someone said ethical pacifist slaughter
I just love the the pacifist rhino. It's just it's just fun concepts
He got in so much trouble when he declared that they were pacifists
They're not a traditionally domesticated animal sure, but they produce milk
They probably produce quite a lot of meat plus they produce ivory a material that we currently consider unethical because rhinos are endangered
But if they were a domesticated farm animal, this would no longer be an issue
It's not it's not like if
If people went out into the wild and cut off a rhino's horn and just
left
Then I don't think people would have a problem with it
People have a problem because they kill the rhino so that it's safe to take the whole look
I think a good example would be that people like for whatever reason in china
Uh great white shark fin is a delicacy
So they'll get the shark cut off its fin while it's alive and put it back in the water
And then it dies because it can't swim. Yeah, and that's insanely that's unethical. That is that's awful
Whether there were 10 billion of them or like only one left
Cutting off a part of a live animal and then leaving it to die is unethical
Yeah, there's a reason why when we slaughter animals, it's instantaneous and quick and they kill bengal tigers and eat their fucking dicks
That's
And that is unethical. That's kind of what I was getting at. He's like the only thing that determines whether it's ethical is how many rhinos
And that's to me like it feels like we're missing something there like
Yeah, it's more complicated than that. Plus it's like the the risk reward aspect of a rhino versus like a cow or a goat
You know, it's like yeah
It's stupid. Why can't he just say yeah, it's dumb moving on
This is what I mean. He's stretched really far just to say that this isn't silly. It's not even it's not film breaking
I just point out that it's silly. That's all
Yeah, it's like this is strange hill to die on because the reason it's in the film is because they said wouldn't it be exotic in
Africa e if they rode rhinos into battle and like yeah, that would be fucking cool as shit
And like I don't have a problem with them riding rhinos into battle. I'm fine with that
Sure, fine. They ride rhinos at the battle here. That's fine
But don't try to be like this makes sense. Apparently someone pointed out that there's a cow in the background
There is a cow in the back. Oh my god
How could the rhinos don't fuck up the cows?
That's so pointed out. I don't know how true this is
But it'll be interesting thing to think about if we actually got facts on this
But if rhinos are endangered throughout earth, it's pretty interesting that there's this giant rhino reserve in this place
No relief workers are allowed to go to it'd be like can we can we help you out?
Can we have some of the rhinos so that we can you know develop them too?
And they're just like no don't come here. No, there are rhinos
We need them for their milk. We need them for their ivory
So you've been killing them for their ivory for 2 000 years what some guys like, you know, they don't have ivory, right
Basically what he's done is seen something out of the ordinary and gone. Oh, why would you do that?
That's crazy because especially because elephants in africa that have ivory and they're like these two don't these toes don't match
It is reasonable to be
Saying that something out of the ordinary is crazy. Like it depends on context
He says that like that's just definitively like if someone's eating their own face
I'd be like that's crazy
Yeah, look let's let's take a look at the word, right? The word extraordinary is composed of two words
extra and ordinary
It is extraordinary
It is ordinary plus one might even say
strange strange thing to say it's unusual without actually giving any reasons why it's a bad idea anyway after I didn't think I had to
I didn't think I thought it was common. Fucking it was self-evident. Why you don't
I think we proved the point when he's counters whether you milk right
Oh my god
Well, apparently he's gonna make a part two
There's gonna be a part two. We'll happily respond. This has been a lot of fun to be honest
This has been this has been fucking terrible. Has he made one point?
There's been a couple things that I could have said more explicitly
But I already had those regrets before seeing this response
I already knew that that was the case for my black
More like verification issues. Yeah, and it's what happens when you rushed to make the video
This was came out a week out and this is why he's had months
What the hell is he's like, why couldn't he google? I at least have an excuse
He sat down at his script and it's like rhinos. Why would you read that probably at least once?
Yeah, there's milk
And meat you can eat rhino meat and their horns are made out of ivory, right? Yeah, let's write that down
I don't need that mauler mauler. I don't let me know. I don't actually care
Oh, hey
For a while says the word. Wow
That's been mean for no reason but okay
Yeah, he's like I don't even care
He's like when when I tell I if I respect somebody in a video that i'm talking about
I don't just say I don't care what your name is
I figure he'd want to be able to pronounce my name correctly if he was going to address me
But apparently not it is mauler
whether or not you care
That's why it's that's why it's spelled literally like the word mauler
But a lot of people think that it might be mauler because of the capital l which I don't blame them for
But once I let them know it should be all right, but yeah, he doesn't care
Why do you capitalize the he doesn't he doesn't care about pronunciation and he just wants to rip into the fact that I don't accept
milking rhinos as a
That mauler mauler. I don't let me know. I don't actually care
Complains about claw for a while says the word balls some more because that's still funny
And then moves on to the scene where black panther gears up tachala then engages with his plan and so meets the wakandan equivalent
Of q she gives him an ear thingy that lets you talk to you and spy on people
She makes a what are those reference which made me question my own existence
And finally q has taken his balls and upgraded them to interface with something
I don't know his balls are overpowered as fuck and they do everything whatever moving on q lets black panther know that his new shoes
Will make absolutely no noise when using them. They are 100 sound absorbent
This doesn't come up again in the film whatsoever. But before he responds to it. Did you do you follow my problem there?
They put this effort to be like you've got new shoes. They make no noise and it never comes up again
It's to make a joke. Yeah, that's the thing
It's it's the kind it's incompetent writing because you leave the audience like oh set up and it's like no payoff
You're like, why did you tell us that that it's like because it was a joke like you gave him this amazing technology
Just for a joke. It's like, okay
That's a bit odd james bond uses his gadgets also we've established that stealth doesn't mean anything anyway, so
Okay, depending on the circumstances. Yes, and
Like why would anybody really want these in this context unless you were a spy?
Well, that's the thing. I was actually interested in seeing how they were going to make use of this but they don't
It's like oh because they would it's for a silly self-filming
So
When the writer is sleeping
The reference I had of james bombs was um
An example of how you do comedy while setting these things up
So he gives him all of his tools and he's like this is what this does this and it's going to play
It demonstrates them and then he picks up the sandwich or the baguette or whatever and he's like, what does this do?
He just grabs it. He goes. Hey
My lunch my lunch
Yes, because yeah, because you expect it to be a gadget, but it's just a sandwich. Yeah, it's good stuff
But this is solely for the joke. It's like, okay
He doesn't use this ability or feature the entire reason this exists is so that q can tell black panther a joke
She says that she calls the shoes that make no noise
Sneakers, so this isn't a problem for me. First of all, if the movie wants to dedicate 30 seconds to telling a joke
That's fine by me. I quite like jokes and it gets bonus points for using it to build a relationship
Yeah, I mean this is this is kind of i'm not going to say it's a it's a detrimental issue at all
It's just it betrays the intentions of the writing. It wasn't very clever. I suppose is what I would argue
But yeah, it's it's comedy if it works for you it works for you if it doesn't then okay
Yeah, I I I know a lot of people who laughed at the joke
I was in the cinema where a couple people giggled and I was sitting there just like wow, that was cheap
Yeah, but the thing is it comes at the expense of introducing an extremely potentially useful thing
That could be used in a lot of useful ways
like sneaking behind somebody or whatever or maybe
Shuri could have used it to sneak somewhere. Who knows?
It could have been used in the film and it wasn't it was only there for a joke
I wonder if he's gonna have any more critiques for me about that
Well on top of that I quite like the fact that we get introduced to gadgets that never get used
It's a nice way to avoid falling into the cliche of being given exactly the gadgets you need to solve the mission
That's exactly what happens his bull's soul of everything
Because you missed that it literally heals a spider wound. I can't wait for him to get to that point
I was gonna justify that he he likes the idea of someone getting something and then never using it
Um, I'm not sure that he said that let's go back again
Quite like jokes and it gets bonus points for using it to build a relationship between these two as well
He says he like sorry just to cut in
He said he likes that it builds a relationship between these two and then lets the footage of thor play in the background
It's like it's like what do you mean? Wait what?
Top of that I quite like the fact that we get introduced to gadgets that never get used
It's a nice way to avoid falling into the cliche of being given exactly the gadgets
Oh, right
so his point is he likes that they introduce gadgets that don't get used because
It's subverts the expectation that every gadget they get given is always going to be super useful
I hate the subverting expectations bullshit
Yeah, but people yeah
But it's really rewarding and it's a payoff when he uses something later that was given to him previously
Yeah, like how about you expanding that stealth shit he did for how about
Yeah, instead of just whipping out some mcguffin from his asshole and using that to the problem
He's like it's a good thing. I brought such and such later
How about you use that moment to go?
Hey, by the way, i've updated the bulls now so they can stabilize wounds and then be like what that sounds amazing
It's like yeah with our new medical tech and say a bunch of words that make sense in some biological context
And then you could be like, okay cool. So at least we go
Oh, so when the guy gets shot in the spine, you can bring the ball out. Okay, but no that doesn't happen
he prefers it when
Whatever
If you need to solve the mission you have you know that thing that people always make fun of the bond movies for
It's nice to see that subverted once in a while after this scene in my
You made fun of the pronunciation my name really
So you talked about me with stale jokes
Yeah, you know that thing that people always make fun of the bond movies for it's nice to see that subverted once in a while
After this scene maula starts complaining that the black panthers power. I mean you had to do that on
Anything this video needed very well
You have to mispronounce that on purpose
It would be like you might pronounce rags name ray gs
It's rags
Rigs the despondent broth
Fringy well to be fair. I thought it was fringy at first too. Yeah, most people would do. Yeah, because fringe is a word
Right, but fringy isn't so yeah, you see
In that case in that case it is fairly mispronouncing it and that's fine. Okay, let him go guys. Let him go god
It's nice to see that subverted once in a while after this scene
Starts complaining that the black panthers power just comes from his suit and the juicy drinks because if there's anything this video needed
It's more of that. That's okay. I'm sure he won't mention it again
But to charla just has the flower power mauler. I gotta tell you your comment on his video was too nice for this
It was I hadn't seen the video yet, but uh
Hey, man, it's not like you did not deserve that amount of dude. This this is going to go up publicly
This will be a permanent stain on the fucking video he's made
Like he's not getting out of this one
This is a full response with me and three other people who could
Fucking confirm at a whole chat of people watching and listening. You're not getting out of this one
Your rhino milk did not solve the problem
But yes, uh
I probably did reiterate the fact that to charla was useless without the flower power and the
And the suit because of the fact that he's the protagonist and he's got nothing special about him beyond the arbitrary gifts of his culture
It's to imply that captain america would be nothing without the the serum which isn't true
He's got a huge all of his entire character is all in the film. The strength allows him to act on his character
Iron man is the same exact thing. His suit allows him to exact his principles
Um, we don't even like do you guys you don't even understand charla really
In the film you don't get much about him. You're just kind of like
He wants to do what's right. I think
Well, I think the way that they wanted to frame it was that his arc would um
Lead, you know the arc throughout the story leads him to basically become
An open like to lead wakanda into an open and transparent sort of age
And I guess the only motivation was that secret that doesn't make sense
Yeah, I was gonna say this ties into the secret because
The whole film is an arc of him going from isolation to open borders or at least semi open borders
And the reason he does is because he finds out about the secret but the secret doesn't make any sense
And therefore his character arc is confusing. Yeah the catalyst of his character is weird and strange
Yeah
Okay
Yeah, let's move on
Chaka stripped of the power of the black panther when he spoke for samalia
Seems like he probably wouldn't have died if he still had the power of the panther
So that means they would have stripped it from him, right?
I mean not necessarily we don't really know how much the black panther can take without his suit to jacket
Oh, come on. He could have survived that. Well, what do you mean? Yeah, we did cause
He lived yeah, he was right next to it he might actually have been close
Yeah, that's bullshit
And also he would have had the reflexes to get out of the way properly
There's a lot of this black panther juice is very very good. Like there's no
It's very good
As you wonder explosion at very close range to me that he literally shows to charlotte
You literally counted your own point by accidentally showing footage of my video
We don't know that he'd survive
Sure doesn't really scream. He no longer has the panther powers
So that means they would have stripped it from him, right?
Because I mean it's not like you can bring the juice out of people to provide it to another person
So can you guys imagine when tachaka gave up the mantle that they just took his powers?
Instead of letting him live his life with it like he's just sitting there thinking to himself
You know, i've got increased healing better agility speed and i'm really old. So can I just keep it and they're like no
Time is time again
See, I think that's a valid point
It's like if I was getting old i'll be like yeah
Can I just believe it?
Yeah, it's erectile dysfunction. I don't think so
I got panther dick
Panther is a sort of subsidiary of the drinking the rhino milk provides that as well or basically
The recondons care about tradition. It's tradition that only the current black panther has this power
Yeah, so the answer is tradition. My whole point was that it's stupid. I don't care if it's traditional or not
This is really stupid
I assume it's tradition. That's my whole premise of my point
I honestly really doubt he was even asked to give it up. The logical assumption when watching this film is how can you came to alter?
Where does the doubt come from?
Exactly. I assume he's saying that tachaka would have been on board with releasing his powers because that's how tradition works
And i'm again saying that's silly. That's just silly. It's like my catchphrase
It's just silly dude become like he gave up the powers himself because that's what he's supposed to do
He did it because that's what he does
Okay, right. So am I to believe that the very first black panther did the same thing?
Yeah, no, and then they set that as a trend
Look his answer to that would be well, maybe maybe not but they set it as a rule at some point and now it's a rule
Okay
And again, what if one of them is just like nah, i'm the king you can't tell me to give it us
I have complete rule over you. That's actually the part that gets me is that it's not when the king
Well as a result the king is still the king and he has to lose it. It's like that seems weird
It's like he just says
I'm keeping it and
He's the king and he didn't even try to make it make sense. He just said no tradition
It's like oh i'm glad that you have this fucking get out of jail free card for every
criticism I have
Tradition and and don't forget people are also insane. There is two defenses
And rhino milk the three you assume someone had to make him give it up
So you don't really understand what these people are that was the joke
If you caught it when I said he was sitting down and they weren't giving up and then he was like can I keep it?
And they went nope
That was a joke dude
But uh, yeah
It shows that these people are a bunch of assholes
Yeah, and and if he was on board your grandmother and grandfather had the panther juice
And they would like be healthy and long-lived and they wouldn't have you know, like dementia or alzheimer's or anything
You're like, sorry grandma. You got to give it up. You gotta be weak and gotta be weak
Literally gives up and then breaks a hip all the way out
She's like oh, she goes through the window. You'll never take me alive
I
Would make for a better film
You're like pachala michonne and not girlfriend meet with some old lady and they get into a secret high class gambling slash trading area
In the middle of some fish market
Okay
They scope out the place and discover a handful of guards that will prove more than likely to be a problem
As well as bilbo baguins who was simply hanging out and waiting for golem to trade some diamonds for the vibranium
He has bilbo says he didn't call attention to black panther's suit in exchange for black panther supplying helmet zemo from civil war
So they are even and shouldn't attempt to cross paths soon after golem
How do you know that one film comes before the other?
Uh because of reader response theory, mate
Okay
An entire entourage that rushed past the old lady and through the sensors
Entire entourage that rushed past the old lady and through the sensors despite having plenty of guns the characters comment on this
But we get no reasoning as to why they're allowed through with guns
We don't even know what this place really is or who owns it
But fuck it. It's dramatic and the nameless bad guys need their pew pews. This is a form of film
Oh, he's one fucking one to talk. Mr. Rhino milk
To clarify before he counters in case it wasn't clear
There's this secret meeting area that people go to trade stuff
As our characters go in they're checked for guns and then they're clear and then they go in obviously the spear gets through because it's retractable and
Whatever. Um, and then uh golems people arrive and they go through the scanners and they all scan like red
They're like, you know, you've got guns, but they just carry on going and it's like, okay
What was the point?
I was like, isn't this place like neutral or is it suddenly owned by golem? I have no clue
It's it's just like they're allowed in with guns and it's like that's how that works. Okay
That's one thing I liked about like the john wick movies continental hotel thing
Rules are applied equally to everybody good bad don't matter
Conduct business in the
I can argue against myself. I could be like well
It's pretty clear that maybe he's bribed the leaders there or maybe he owns the place or maybe he's pulled in some favors
In exchange for vibranium, but then my response would be that's not in the film. None of that is
Like well, but like even if you just walked past someone and slipped some money into his pocket, that would have been enough
Yeah, it it could have been as they were walking in you would not have needed to change the screen time
It would it would literally be the same amount
But let's let's see if he does the inference thing
Yeah, it doesn't just mean that the movie sort of forgot to put one in
It's the movie assuming wrongly in your case apparently that you're smart enough to figure things out for yourself
There you go. Well arrives
We see him acting very familiarly with the woman on the door then casually
The movie just wants you to write a story yeah
Fucking what the writers were so bad. Patrick Willems said this remember he was like the film assumes that you're pretty smart
I guess it's wrong
It's like that's funny
Remember the film the film assumes that you understand the rhino milk
You were supposed to interpret the rhino milk
What are supposed to interpret that they milk the rhinos for their ivory horns
The pacifist civilization that kills anyone that comes in through the impenetrable forest
It is with his entourage despite the fact that every single one of them sets them off
The movie assumes you're smart enough to figure out this means claw has people on the inside that he's set this up
The movie could very easily have a scene just before this where claw explains that he's got people on the no
You don't need that see everyone always assumes that they're like
Oh what maula wants is a whole film to explain everything before even watching the film
It's like no, did you hear what we just suggested slip someone some money? That's it. Oh, he didn't he didn't he didn't hear it
You know show don't tell doesn't mean don't tell people things that means show things
For telling things so you can achieve two things with that scene
Even another suggestion they could have just like looked at them like all intimidated like oh shit, and then they just yeah
That's how they straw man though. They're like, oh people like ragsball or wolf free or whatever
They'll just be like they want a whole fucking essay before the first start my suggestion
Is just that you achieve more than one thing at a time in your film. Yeah, get two things done at once
That's that's what you're meant to do
That's what good law arrives and there's clear indication that he's bribed the owners, you know done done
I can just think of so many scenes and
They do these things and they don't explicitly explain something, but it still works
so
Somebody that they're making the rhino emoji and then a milk
And then they got the cow and the milk one
They put it right in your milk is better than cow milk
Oh my god, i'm saving that i'm fucking saving that
Inside or just not have the metal detector there in the first place. What the movie is doing here is showing
We didn't ask for him to explain that he had people on the inside
Dude, I already told you as well. I could have made these arguments. I'm talking about the lack of information
Very very much lacks of it. I can invent the script too
Someone in chat said you were supposed to interpret the rhinos not know of him
That he set this up the movie could very easily have a scene just before this where claw explains that he's got people on
The inside or just not have the metal detectors there in the first place what the movie is
Why did you just suggest that like it's something that we should have inferred?
Like check this out
He passes through the money and the camera pans around as he walks into the thing and she presses a switch under a table and that turns
Maybe not turns the the things off
But there's like a clear change in how the the detectors work
It doesn't the light turns off or it doesn't make any or the conveyor belt stuff
Whatever it could be anything they he puts money in the pocket gives a nod
The lady looks to other people and then gives them a nod they walk in
Um
Or maybe they point guns at the people at the entrance and the guys at the entrance
They just put up their hands and let them go through. I mean there's multiple ways to resolve this
And they that's like these people lack
Creativity they lack imagination. They think that about us. They're like, oh you need your scene to explain everything
Well, it does seem like projection, doesn't it?
Oh
Explain it like explicitly
But I think what people would prefer is that you find creative ways of conveying information
In as little time as possible, but still in a clear manner
Yeah, like slipping money into the pocket or like some glances between the guys as they walk
Kind of becomes clear that you're not going to mess with it. Maybe the time they spent on the sneaker joke could have been spent instead
Blaming some other scenes
Doing here is showing you something rather than telling it to you. And that's a good thing
Yes, it's showing us that there's a clear identification that he has weaponry and he's allowed in
Despite the fact that all these people on the metal detector have no connection in any way to the girl at the front
And all she does is recognize that she knows claw not that she's fucking in league with him
This is why we said money money would tell us that money is a thing that people use to bribe people to do things
Kissing somebody you've been here before so the rules don't apply to you
Like why was my problem was like, whoa, they just set off the thing. Why isn't everyone going crazy?
The reality is that without any explanation you could interpret many ways, but that's not necessarily a good thing
You know
You could look at this scene and go oh he owns the club or maybe his buddy owns the club
Or maybe he bribed him in advance
But that's not a good thing
when three equally correct answers could be
Construe for this one thing. It's like he's satisfied that you could just infer anything you're like, that's not
Why not just why not just have the final scene in the film play and then we can infer
Yeah
How is it actually smart enough to figure that out? Not good. I'm stupid. Thanks, man
You know how we all universally agree that if you open a battle with two people out of context
Just trying to kill each other that it's usually it's not a good thing
It's usually considered not the right way to start a film because you don't know what's going on
I guess with him he'd be like, oh you could just infer that they hate each other. Oh, oh really you reckon you don't say
And the thing is they might not even hate each other. They might be training. They might be forced to do it against each other
Context my friend. It's important just before this where claw explains that he's got people on the inside or just not have the metal detector
In the first place what the movie is doing here is showing you something rather than telling it to you what you're doing is writing
The movie congratulations little lemming. You've done exactly what they want you to do. I think they aren't showing you
This is this is this is a genuine problem with writing that they want you to do
They want you to write their stories
They want you to hold them to a lower standard and that you just interpret everything for them
Someone said patrick william's favorite addition to the mcu is the rhino
Of course that's a good thing
So long as you're actually smart enough to figure that out not girlfriend that announces that it is now or never in relation to capturing
Gollum
But this makes about zero sense when they have established that there are guards all over the place with guns and our heroes have some knives
And a spear which ones have the advanced technology again, remind me
Okay
So let's take a step back for a second
This is not the first time that the elder has complained about the use of spears in this film. You did my name joke again
He said now now, I don't see how he could
Well, i'm just i'm commenting on the fact that he's clearly doing it for the last but he
Just in this video has told me that if you repeat a joke, it's not funny
It's not good. It's interesting and to clarify my position before he straw mans me, which is inevitable. Um, the
Spears never fire any energy
So she's literally just using it as a spear and the other girl has knives and they're against people
Yeah, but then the spears fire energy later on don't make my points
What they do in this scene they have low tech compared to their enemies and they are the ones that are saying
melee versus
Projectiles and they say now or never like this is our opportunity and i was like, no this is bad
This is not a good time that they just win anyway, because why not advanced technology again remind me
Okay
So let's take a step back for a second
This is not the first time that the elder has complained about the use of spears in this film the fact that the job has gone
Yeah
A big grievance for him despite the fact that these are incredibly advanced vibranium spears that you can literally stop a car by throwing them
But what makes them advanced they're really strong. So they're advanced. Is that how you yeah
How does the spear being vibranium help you when shot? I could make a really advanced vibranium paper clip
Thank you for reassuring my sanity
Just because it's a vibranium spear does not mean it's going to help you when you're shot in the fucking head
Yes, it could be a yeah, it's like it still is what it is
Regardless of what it's made if it was made out of hardened
Steel it would do the same thing
Maybe not to the tiniest degree. I imagine you get a little bit of a plateau effect, but
It's not going to stop bullets people will shoot you and you're like, oh, yeah, but my spear is also
Please know a counter someone else had for me. I don't know if he's going to use it is that they have vibranium clothing
That's bulletproof. Look at her dress
That's really going to help you when okay, so you have but so vibranium is anything you want it to be
basically
Exactly, dude, and people don't people are okay with this and I was like, it's not okay vibranium is the answer to fucking everything
Oh, uh, what scene when did they say that because they just look like clothes
They do say that vibranium's woven into their clothes implying that but to me i'm just like fucking out
you just
By that logic still your head is a complete target here as well as your shoulders which
Oh stupid stupid stupid stupid
Plus they have like blasty and electric key stuff in them
So let's take a look at right, but you need to be really close
Yeah, exactly and that still doesn't protect you from being shot in the head. That's like my main point
It's like if I get close to him, I can shoot him with a stunning thing
This would be an example. This would be an example of why everybody should have that black
T'Challa has
Because yeah, they say like um, yeah like suits on or something like that in that
like power rangers
You know
The rest of the mcu what weapons do the other heroes use if they're more advanced on us?
It should uh shields can protect you from bullets quite easily. In fact, yeah
You can throw it and it comes back to you
Iron man's armor protects him from bullets. Uh thor literally is immune to bullets. The hulk is immune to bullets
You get where i'm going with this
Black widow has a gun
I could see horkai easily taking out the yeah
Yeah, because his arrows can his people criticize horkai, but he's definitely a useful character
Like I would be afraid of him if he was right
And I would be you know, i'd be equally as concerned for him in this scene
I'd be like horkai's gonna have to be careful because there's a bunch of fucking guys with guns in here
While iron man hulk thor and captain america wouldn't have anywhere near as much concern
I guess you can think of other examples too, right? Like if this was daredevil
Usually when there's a gun he has to actually change his strategy because he means he would die if he gets shot
Yeah, this is me trying to prompt you to watch that show by the way
And what if you had um, like captain america was in the scene like we got again was like no, there's too many civilians
Yeah, like someone innocent's gonna get killed. Yeah, I could see him saying that to be honest
You know, it's like we got to get them it's like but they're they're people in guns like people are gonna get killed
This is gonna turn into a quinton trentino scene
Just a gun said rhino milk is better than cow milk
Wait, he's saying all the stuff we've already counted so we can probably get through this quite easily
I'm hoping if they're more advanced than us, it should just be guns, right?
Well cap uses a shield thor uses a war hammer and later a battle axe as if they have no magical properties
Yeah
Nothing special about it at all. It's just like if I get the hammer
This is what i'm talking about no charitable
Disaction he's just doing his best to make me look as stupid as he can
Thor shows up on to the battle scene at the end and if he wants to make electrical magnet
You want us to make a real point?
He could have pointed out that lightsabers are kind of in the same category, you know, like it's a melee weapon
Yeah, but they kind of make it well, that's exactly it isn't usually you'd argue they have the force
Which is a suit like you know a jedi against blasters. Yeah, that's what I mean
There's an explanation though. It's a melee weapon, but you could still see them taking
Guns, but here it just seems ridiculous
And plus the last thing that you want in close quarters is a spear
It's exactly it
Someone who runs past it comes across as jarring when you see this film
It's just like what the fuck he's in a spear for you something more practical for christ's sake. He's like use a sword or something
It just doesn't if you want to get a sword would be better a sword would be better
Yeah, because you just stab him with a spear. It's just they're they're basically long range
In a sense they're long range iron man uses a suit of plate armor. Okay. Well right that he can fire
He can fire things out of his head. Why would that how doesn't that support my argument?
like the the
Whatever don't know about hawkeye hulk just uses his fists and gamora uses swords
Just to name a few the few that best exemplify my point
Yeah, didn't count to my point even a little bit
So right but gamora does use guns when she needs
Guns like when it's long range. Yeah, remember that one point in guardians of the galaxy
Had a cannon bigger than her because she decided to fire it at her sister. Yeah
Remember when we were watching a criticism and he committed the sin of what about ism?
Oh, absolutely. Yeah, this is the thing. He's assuming. I don't have a problem with any of the other ones
Yeah, he's like, oh yeah, but what about these other things?
even to me that's partially not true because when I think of um
Seeing in the winter soldier when the guy has them
And like he doesn't just shoot cap in the legs like to me that is kind of a problem
Yeah, someone in the chat mentioned just because they know who I am at a bar
Let me just start pouring my own drinks
Yeah, like it's not enough that we see that he's acquainted with the owner or whoever that woman was
Yeah, this is yeah because I mean, yeah, if anything would have a reputation and he's not a great upstanding guy
So they would want to take his weapons away even more
Because I don't want something like what happening in this scene to happen
Yeah, you're going to come back after this
Yeah, there's no way they would let him keep weapons if they know him
That point doesn't even work in his favor
He said it did so it does
One of these things of modern weapons. They shouldn't have any I love that a giant suit of armor
None of these things are modern weapons
He mentioned uh bruce banner's fists and he's like that's not
We could acknowledge it's attached to this enormous creature known as the hulk
It's not exactly a standard set of fists and then the idea is like oh, yeah thaws little little hammer
Fucking it's just easy to use the hammer. It's like a little smith's hammer
It's like oh, it has magical properties and can teleport in places, but fuck that it can summon lightning. Fuck that. That's not
Okay
It's a fucking hammer there's a lot of people who pointed out the
Contradiction that I didn't comment on as guardian culture as much as I did with this. It's just like okay magic gods other reality and they
They actually took over how many realms is it nine?
Nine nine realms. It's like yeah, there's a lot less to criticize and they're aliens
It's a little bit a little bit more complicated, but sure these are human beings in africa magical aliens versus real ass human beings
It's the same thing
Place on a modern battlefield, but in the marvel universe, there are ways to upgrade them that make them viable again
The spears like is it viable?
Like
How can you how can you criticize be like who thurs still uses a hammer and then moments later say who you could upgrade things
Yeah, he's not recognizing. It's magical
And that's the thing the spears the spears don't automatically block bullets or something
She could have been killed at any moment in that scene. There's no real
another guy run out of the corner and was kind of
Shot her in the head or the leg or wherever and she
If iron man suits us getting broken off like it does an infinity war we all get concerned because that's the only thing that keeps
Yeah
It's very simple and I feel like he's just arguing to argue at this point
It's a very simple point to understand but whatever because like a room full of men with guns
They have spears and you're like, obviously they're at a huge disadvantage in their
They take civilian, you know casualties into account, you know, like the the opening of civil war a fight at the end of age of ultra
And that makes it viable again the spears are no different if you have a problem with spears are no different from thaws hammer
Or iron man suit of armor sure man
We'll go with that the updated versions of outdated weapons then say that having a problem with just the spears doesn't make any sense
Gollum uses his fake arm to fire a massive horrible projectile into something that tachala was hiding behind and a bunch of money comes down
And he says ha ha I made it rain
Which I just was he not supposed to be intimidating at one point. This is your first time
intimidating someone
I'm afraid
Not that afraid and now he's this weird incompetent reckless unhinged circus clown who laughs at his own
I will accept that it's not like definitive. It's not like a huge change in character
But I did get annoyed personally because he seemed like he was just a clown now
When I was like, oh man, I liked it when claw was smart
And I showed I probably should have showed the clip with him in ultron
Where he seemed much more in control when he was like wait you work for stark like there's this there's like oh
He's he's actually got agency. Well in this film he's like lalalalal. It's like
But yeah, there's there's ways to counter that let's see what he does
Archer has changed exactly
Remember this the thing that happened in literally the exact scene you just showed a clip from they make lots disco nights
You're allowed not to like claw in this movie. That's fine. You can dislike whatever you want. No
I still like him
Use the best part of the circus if you criticize him, you don't like him
Yeah, and like and it's not really an issue with him
It's the writing and correct me if i'm wrong
But I did just say that I wanted him to be more intimidated and I can't remember if I if I did definitively said
This is the wrong for what he should be then. Yeah, there's you could easily criticize me for that
But i'm pretty sure it's more of a preference. I was trying to imply but sure
And that's and that's an interesting comparison that he made between the two scenarios because of someone trying to intimidate him
And he's being flippant about it. It shows confidence. Yeah
This is supposed to be unhinged
I don't get the impression he's unhinged in that scene like I like I like I did the example on purpose
He like turns to the camera goes I made it right. It's like are you you okay, mate? Like
While yeah, yeah people are trying to catch you
Be concerned
Very limited screen time in the past has been a villain who's goofed around for me personally
That's where the intimidation comes from the fact that he laughs in the face of danger
Shows that he just goes through that sort of thing every day
You get a sense that if there's a gun in his face, he's in his element and he doesn't care
He's probably my favorite mcu. Are you sure about that? Because when ultron his arm
Scared. Yeah, he was genuinely scared terrified. I'd even say
He didn't seem too happy when he was getting shot up. I kill monger and eventually killed that concerned him when I saw that
By the looks of things you don't think he's a no, but then when he was about to die
He started laughing remember he laughed when he died. He was like, oh, haha. And then he got oh, there you go
You may have forgotten but he starts laughing when he discovers that kill monger is actually from Wakanda
Uh, I forgot about that. Yeah, yeah, that's okay. It's okay that you forgot about this
And that's yeah again me and wolf like I said, we didn't have long with this and i've not seen black panther since
Like I I understand I would have made mistakes. So like like this i'll just say like fair point
I'll leave you with that one, but the rest of the video is kind of embarrassing
Considering the context for this analysis
Fine, but don't act as if this is some kind of bastardization of his character. So that well, did I say that?
I mean, it's not it's just unusual
It just came from part one. The original video is over 40 minutes long
That's a hell of a long video. So i'm gonna cover it in two parts part two should come out next sunday
If you've enjoyed that, it'll look like some screen now
Yeah, he's not very far in that's like first act stuff. Unless, unless he's gonna skip over my valid points in which case
We shall see well, that's the end of it. It's probably for the best
Well, I was gonna say I should probably try and get through these these
Superchats as quick as I can and then we'll do monday map, but I was just gonna say as a conclusion
um, not that great, uh
Trying to be genuine here like because I was awful
I've I've cut my teeth on on youtube with a lot of I criticize other reviewers and i've made mistakes in the past and not
being kind enough, but like this
You know
Like this is embarrassing. There's a lot of you know, do we need to say it's like there's a lot of straw manning a lot of uh
Ignoring context for what i'm trying to actually get at and providing no benefit of the doubt
And then acknowledging that i've made points
But you sort of just pretend like they don't exist to try and get past them and it paints a picture is kind of
What i'm getting at here. Um, so try and do better in part two. Yeah
Let's go with that. Yeah
I'm gonna go to the bathroom real quick. So you
All three of you want to do anything that preps you for the next monday mat extravaganza you can do that while I uh
Read these things. Oh, I definitely need some prep for monday mat
Uh, so yeah, uh dikota stanton said have a great stream guys. So, thank you
Uh, nick said i'm jewish. So i'm giving you guys a jew pass go nuts
YouTube doesn't like me saying that word. I mean
Yeah, it's a standard nick. It's disgusting that you would do that
Unkuth badger said is this how I donate to the church of jared? That's um 100 a truth right there
Uh onyx osprey said uh hyped to finally catch you go live love and appreciate you guys your commentary on jared's videos
Have really cheered me up on slow days
Yay, that's good stuff
Uh formally rodline how dare you trans shame bowser. So that's directed at you rags you piece of shit
I don't believe I did that
James more, uh, we have our brown bilbo baggers, by the way off topic. Have you guys played fallen new vegas?
And did you like it have a great stream?
Your fault new vegas is excellent. I have not played it
I've not played it
You haven't really I haven't I own it. I own it. So am I give it a shot? Oh, it's amazing, man. Um
Jobbin b said, uh everything wrong with the black panther an angry argum meme stephen bow bagging in you
I think you try to combine bilbo and stephen ball in you but uh
excellent
Uh, not I taking all bets on number of times racist is used. Well, luckily for us
He didn't actually call me racist at all. There was no implication which is nice. He's doing better than some other people
Yeah, yeah
I still his his points are just legitimately bad. They're not just I mean, they're not just a racist card
We've got because there'll be a comment i'll send on the discord that i'll happily let rags read out which will be amuse you about the uh
The people who look at me criticizing this film, but um under the hunter
Would you guys ever consider watching commenting on a nostalgia critic video on stream?
um
I mean yes, but like i've always I kind of consider that a low hanging fruit or this a little bit unfair
I I don't know if this is offensive to him, but I like would say is he not like a children's entertainer in that he's
it's
Because these video essays they're trying to say like we have important things to say about film. It's like, okay
Okay. Yeah, let's let's try it out
But like if you're trying to go like i'm trying to have some fun with kids and explain a movie in a funny way
I'd be like well
Feels a little bit cruel, but if someone found a particularly egregious video we could uh go over why I suppose in terms of structure
Yeah, i'm not opposed to uh covering him
And again, like I don't even know where I rate him entirely in terms of because it's funny
You've got all these people who are kind of manipulative with their videos versus someone like nostalgia critic who?
Dare I say he's more honest in that his goal is to just sort of
Do a quick commentary. I don't know i'd have to watch more of it. Um, i'm not sure someone's asking about william's alien covenant video
Oh, yeah, I will watch that
But I think me and wolf would like to see alien covenant again
Before watching it so we can actually fact check see the first time. Yeah, there you go
Uh job and be wolf you missed a key opportunity to cast Jared as wolverine the church of Jared will have to reprimand you for this
I would happily see Jared as wolverine in a
A redo of could you imagine like a oh, man, that'd be amazing. Just let him go nuts. It'd be great
Zach pulido as an aspiring author. I can't thank you guys enough
I went through my work with the same level of scrutiny and ended up rewriting nearly all of it now
It's better than ever dude. Yeah, that's good
Excellent redrafting is the best thing ever. No, dude, that's I've I
Wrote 65 000 words and it wasn't good and I
Started over again. It's not a nice thing to do, but it would be better because of it. Don't ryan's dancing it
All right
Skull on wheels and fairies and unbridled praise kill monger is superman that german rant is hilarious. Oh god
That's how far back I am. Um, i'm african enjoyed mauler's review great points. Well, apparently not
Except for a few that he doesn't leave in the video. Uh pc is the wakanda of gaming platforms
Opie yeah, yeah, actually. Okay. I see that. I was like, it's not hidden though
Uh, please someone do the iron fist review can't wait
Dude, I have no desire to make I think he's saying that because I brought it up
Oh, I was wondering if it was like a video he was referring to like maybe an iron fist one from somebody but nah
I look i've made it clear that daredevil is the best of the marvel netflix shows
I would just say that's the one if you have limited time, that's the only one I would recommend watching
Okay
Um, maybe maybe punisher
Punisher can be is pretty entertaining and the first season of jessica jones. I liked but yeah daredevil is by far the best one
Uh, you guys are just colonizers explaining they didn't even we didn't even get to that in the film
Maybe I think he's avoiding it because she definitely says
Like we'll see it'll have to be in part two maybe
Um, other african tribes did find the wakandans though
The lady at the museum says the vibranium spears from another african tribe and the british sword. Oh, yeah, we did we did read that one
out
But if they knew but if they had a vibranium spear
Then how come the people at the museum were like oh shit the thing that this is made out of
Like oh god, I wonder if there's any more
Yeah, you'd think that would have gotten to shield, you know, it would have been like
Oh, we do have an actual vibranium spear in this museum
They'd be like, oh shit. We made captain america shield out of that. We could probably use that for something
It's very very I mean that's uh, just raising more questions about the film
Isle wakanda the first human faction in stellaris irl
Um people don't chase legends those people who spend their lives looking for bigfoot don't exist exactly
Yeah, wakanda uses dead animals as border markers. I guess see we're catching up now
We're getting there
Uh, who needs concrete walls when you have lads scaping?
That's true. Could someone please explain to me why the quality of movies is so ass in 2018 or is it just me?
Um, 2018 is not been a good year
What do you think wolf because a lot of people have said to me it's like it's no different than any other year
And I was like, I don't know 2018 feels a little bit different to me
Just felt yeah
I mean i've I've pointed out to you in the past that like over the past like five or six years movies have been
noticeably getting worse and worse and worse, but this year is like
It's kind of insane how many bad movies came out this year
I mean last year there were some bad ones. I mean last jedi justice league
uh, um
Wonder woman, you know shit like that
But I mean this year it's like i'm struggling to think of the good one infinity war best friends
Uh, that's always the two that you got
It's just like this is the thing I mean me and wolf don't mean I every film that comes out obviously so
Yeah, I mean indie films. I I virtually never watch not because I have anything against them
I just you know
Don't really ever get around to them
But when one of my favorite movies this year like unironically as a tommy yzo film then that's not a good thing
No, and i'm now trying to look at it with releasing a new film this year. I believe all right mission impossible fallout was pretty
Great fallouts game. I really
Sometime as a let's let's hope for 2018
Maybe 2018 was so bad. It was it was really really entertaining
Um, there were lots of great moments in that film in particular, especially the final sort of um set piece was kind of incredible
Yeah, cool. Fair enough. I will check it out. Actually. I I heard good things about it. I just I haven't watched any mission
I'm just uh, i'm just looking at a list of the films that have come out this year and
You know wrong. There have been some some duds like, uh, there was what skyscraper, you know die hard, but not good
um
What what else was there? Incredibles 2 was not I didn't enjoy it very much
Uh, the predator, uh ant-man and the lasp the nun
um
uh a quiet place
Solo
A lot of these food have all in queues
Apparently not very good. Yeah, Jurassic world too
uh the meg oceans eight
uh
What's the car?
I hated it was it was it was yeah, it was dude
It was the first one
I'm gonna make a video eventually because I adore the first one the second kind of shits on it like in terms of
Fucking point of it. I don't want to go too much into well
I gotta say I was surprised when I saw the trailer for i'm like really they're doing a sequel
really
Yeah, there's no need for a sequel. That's my main issue with it. Yeah, and then there there was slender man
There was ready player one. Oh jeez. Yeah ready player ones
Dude annihilation was this year, wasn't it?
Yeah, and I wouldn't I wouldn't say I well, no, I would say a wrinkle in time
but I am
Absolutely convinced that is a comedy and that they were trying to trick everyone because I swear to god
That is one of the funniest movies. I have ever seen I was laughing through all almost the entire thing
We need to have we need to have like a bad movie get together thing
I recommend the predator
No, you guys need to see a wrinkle in time, I mean you have to see like
giant titan obra talking about how big she is because I swear it I
I was in a different universe
When I watched that movie and it was it was amazing. But yeah, as you've just gone through it's like 2018 has been rough for movies
Uh, not saying it's irredeemable. Not saying it's the worst year ever, but i'm pretty sure it's the worst year ever
Deadpool 2 was pretty good though. It's
I this is the thing ant-man wasp wasn't terrible, but the thing is it's like oh
These ones that aren't terrible. It's like that doesn't really change the scale too much
I suppose with me for the ant-man movies
I just get a little cynical because I wanted to see what edgar wright wanted to do with the first one
And yeah, it will never exist now and that bogs me
But um, yeah, i'll try and do these fast, uh
When an explorer stumbles on makanda the most dangerous game we was kang's edition. Um, I guess
So, yeah, it would be the most dangerous game
I love that he still eluded to that. He didn't want to say it
It's classic. I remember kids when you're slightly in convenience. Just give up
It's not like human history is based on people doing crazy shit that we thought was impossible before we did it
Don't climb that mountain when you get to it
Exactly. Oh apa. I have seen alpha. I liked it
Um in makanda, they'd be like do you know
Oh wait, we answered that one. I believe uh
You know how the last last year fortune did it's it's okay to be white prank for halloween
How bad do you think the sjw would react if a bunch of white people dressed up as a black panther for halloween?
I mean, yeah, they that's a thing right halloween costumes are offensive. That's a thing that happened. That's probably gonna happen again this year
Like certain costumes, let's say you dress up as like a mexican cowboy or something they'd be like that's cultural location
Which is pretty funny
Uh, the border tribe is stationed outside of the dome and their primary job is protect the border
I would think they would turn people away from entering just a thought exactly though the scenario we gave where they're like
You can't go over there and you go. Okay, i'm gonna go over there and go. No, you can't it's like
What are you gonna do? Yeah, look at north korea
Like it's it's difficult to stop absolutely anybody and then there's a lot of we did go over it
There's just a lot of ways how the information could leak out
Um, I plot the holes down in what you'd have I can't I can't sing I plot the holes down in work
There you go beautiful
Even cap knows about wakanda and vibranium as in age of ultram when bruce says wakandri looks atonion says I thought your dad used
All the vibranium they're referring to the fake wakanda when they say that though in fairness. No, they don't know
It's like a technological marvel thing
Um, how many ghost hunters are on tv, but wakanda? No
Yeah, that's in this case randomly remind me of this
There was an african king so rich
He caused an economic crisis when he gave away a massive amount of gold while on a pilgrimage to mecca
devaluing the metal for a decade
interesting
Um, wakanda has covert omissions into other countries see kilbonger's dad
But their espionage activities were never caught ever. I don't care advanced
They are spies get caught and information gets extracted this that's just another way the information can go good
That's the thing. It's just another way the information can get out, but we're told it didn't it didn't it's like, okay
Youtuber makes stupid excuse for bad movie maula. What? Well, yeah
it's one of the common ones the whole writing the script for the
script writer, um
So the guy in the video said thanks for being civil in the comments and proceeds
Oh, no, he says thanks for being civil in the video. I think at one point and then it said uh
proceeds to insult you
Throughout his response to you seriously
This guy's starting to feel a little too faced in fairness if you're referring to his comment. He did do that after this video was made so
Um, I think he's probably happy that I reacted that way instead of ripping into him
But I did say in my comment. I hadn't seen the video. So maybe he was like
Congrats more i'm getting a huge mention praise from sargon your stream with v love seeing great content may as grow
Well, yeah, I had a lot of fun talking to both of them. Um
And sargon was clearly a fan of predator as a franchise. So
He was not happy with the new film as well
But um, i'll get in more trouble because i'm you know
Talking to wolf was enough to make me a racist rags will make me a um, what are you rags?
Do I do I become a dog now?
Uh, um alt right, I guess
Tashes, I think talking to p and sargon i'll just be crucified by the end of the week
Probably as long as I don't but talking to me, you know, nobody I get a few points if I talk to you
You're a nice person
I get green points
Uh, love your stuff rags and wolf gotta see fringy too. Yes. Thank you. Check out everybody
We'll try and do i'll try and promote people at the end of the other stream give you guys a big rundown of what these
uh flim flams offer
I was so bored and tired watching this in theaters. I fell asleep for half of it only mcu film
I have at least got a nap in in a lazy boy out of well, you know, that's a positive i'm glad it did something for you
Uh, maybe that's why black panther loses so badly because he was trained by pacifists. Oh, there you go
I finally caught a stream rags needs to make more videos. I've already watched them all twice. Yeah rags. What's that about, huh?
Uh, don't i've got a bunch of new art and stuff that's getting worked on right now
Um, so a lot of stuff's going into the channel at the moment
It'll be out do not you worry. I have things lined up. So do not you worry. There you go
Uh the new challenge to become king i'll have pacifism for 400 dollars. That's a reference to uh, the prices, right?
No
That's a joke, but i'm i'm trying to get through these quickly. So try not to stay on it
Uh the scene showed them asking the tribe leader with their warrior standing next to them
Uh, then they asked if anybody of royal blood if want to challenge for the throne kill mongers of royal blood and within
His right to challenge for the throne. Yeah, that's fine with me. I I just assume he's a part of um
uh to charlotte's
clan
As well like ease of royal blood
I don't know. It's not really important anyway compared to the rest of the film's problems
The rest of the world was savage and so wakanda did not care for it is led by only guy who punches best
Like yeah, that's that's the savage part of it, which makes us think
that by definition puts the the
burliest and most violent person in charge
What does that mean for your society when you do that?
He sounds like h bomber guy. I think he might actually be him if we've seen the two of them in the same room
No, we haven't
Comic books. Well, I I just thought that minty superman turn your brains off for having fun
They should add rhinos to farming simulator 19 true. Um,
Wakanda logic they created the cure for all illness now. Let's create an antidote for it
That's the weird thing to me why would they even want a counter to the greatest thing in the world
Yeah, you think they you it's like you just you think they'd give it to everybody
And he actually kind of agreed with that point as well, which is interesting
Given how much weight it's not like
It's not like someone can take it away from you
So it's not like you can give it to somebody else and then other people get it through proxy or something
um
Given how much weight being traditional is given in wakanda. Do you think patrick williams mcu doppelganger lives there? It's like well
Considering he loves traditional reviewers. He's probably stationed in wakanda right now
That's where they they home grow traditional rhino farming reviewers
He lives with movie bob needs some horny milk around you via world-class bullshits. Keep fighting the good fight. Absolutely
Jared genesis jar jar video. I mean
We'll get to
We need to cover more of his on wolf's podcasts and get through like several we can only ever get through like one or two
Oh, yeah, I mean we were talking about doing jar
jarred only
Jarred a jarathon
You know, I think uh jarred actually said to me on twitter that like, uh, he appreciated that. I was very
respectful to him
And if maula had been nicer, he would have gone on the podcast with you mauler. I'm the reason he didn't give up though
I was like, oh yeah
First it was rags. Now it's maul. I genuinely I love the quotes
I thought I was the nice one, but I may have said something that even I would be like, oh
I can't remember being means like
Oh, yeah, whatever. Uh, but he still seems like he's playing hard to get like he
Did you see did you see the drawing that he sent you on twitter? No. Oh my god. Oh god
I just found it. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. It's slightly amazing share it in the uh
In the chat so rags can see it. Uh, the spear in the museum was encased in stone
I'm, not sure if that's supposed to say like that's why they didn't know it was vibranium
But yeah, either or that that that could be the case off topic, but i'm curious
Tell me why mark brown sucks. I hear you rip on him a lot, but not in detail. Have you uh, there is
Where's the video of us taking down one of mark brown's videos? It's not an efap one, is it?
that's on um
That's on my channel. Let me it's one of wolf's podcasts
I can't remember. I think I might have put I think I put his name in the title. So let me
We'll try and check real quick. Um
There've been some really good films this year leave. No trace fierce performed apostate the party death of stalin
For example, I have not heard of any of them. So i haven't heard of any of them
That could be my issue then but um
I guess we should just say of the films we have seen and a lot of them have been mainstream. Uh, they've been very
lackluster
But yes, that is all the super chats I got through it, which means
We can move on which means month then matt. I parsed it in the discord. Oh, sweet. Okay
Well, which one are we doing? Are we doing this? I mean how how long you went?
It's very the question
Well, uh, did he remove it?
Hey everyone. Oh, no way. I'm still looking at me. It's two and a half minutes and now we can definitely do this
Yeah, it is
Here we go rags. You're gonna be wrong. He made you
Um, oh, it's very abstract
Oh, sorry there are um, these are I always forget to read these out there's ones on um, I guess you'd call it
the the super uh, yeah, no wait, sorry the the other thing that's not super chats the um
The stream labs donations. There's three of them. Uh
One of them says i'm about to go to bed now you faggots alive so much for that. Uh, so thank you
I'm black and actually african-born and raised enjoy black panther at least the first time hard film to watch a second time
But I appreciate your reviews. So you had great points. Well, thank you
And uh first stream I caught live and yeah, obviously, um, thank you
Yes, not racist confirmed. Thank you all for very generous donations as well
I meant to obviously say that at the end instead of for everyone. Uh, it's very much appreciated and
It's a very kind of you all and I actually managed to read out those ones this time, which I always forget to do
Uh, you guys gonna tear apart movie bob's latest video plot hole surface. That's gonna be on wednesday
We're actually doing this again in just two days now. Oh, wait. Yeah, it is two days
Because this video seemed like it was worth responding to and now
Well, we're gonna have to do two this week. I hope you guys are
Are up for that since it'll be what like 10 hours total sort of ridiculous, but um
Yeah, is everyone good to see this monday mat video? Yeah, we can do that one. Yeah, it shouldn't take
Just for context for anybody who doesn't know monday mat
He uh, he got caught
Reporting channels and getting their videos taken down and strike supply to their channels because they were saying things that were mean about him
It wasn't even specifically like anything slanderous or inaccurate
He literally just didn't like it when people were saying mean stuff and laughing at him crying
And then he lied about it on stream
And then he was exposed for doing it and then he attended for months that it didn't happen
Gave a half-hearted apology on tumblr and the reason everyone calls him boulder boy
Is because
Is because his uh excuse
For not for supposedly not flagging anything is that he?
Was collecting boulders with his eight month old so he couldn't have possibly done it. Look listen. It's tradition. It's
Your honor i'm pleading insanity
It runs in the jarbo fam
Yes
So, uh, he ignored this as a result and his channel has been plummeting in terms of respect views and just
Attention, I suppose because not many people can trust this man anymore
And his whole the premise of his channel is that he'll give you it real, you know
Like this is how it goes. What's happening? What's the like to dislike ratio on this video? It's actually positive
Oh, wow, my name is me. I'm in months. Yeah, I was gonna say that must be because
People are like fucking finally. This is what you should have done
Yeah, but the thing is is that can you believe him anymore?
Lied on the stream outright for a while. I'm curious, you know, I can't trust him
We can we can break this down. I'm curious what he's going to say. But um, does everyone good?
Yeah, yeah. All right then one
My name is match arbo and this is a video I should have made a long time ago. Yes
Oh, you reckon I owe an apology to tonkasa failure accomplished andy warsky swedish mate dame pesos
and maxwell silver
For reporting mr. Medica though, you kind of lied to him as well. I guess it's not about lying
It's about the actual reports. So that's fair. Yeah, that he did he uh
Take down any of medicare's videos. I don't think so
Um, but he did lie to him to his face, which I think is worth an apology
But obviously if he's going to get to that later then fair enough
Putting their videos to youtube for bullying and harassment
I should not have done it
I deeply deeply regret my actions
And I allowed myself to become angry
to become bitter
And to let it fester and to let it rot and to let it push me to do something that is absolutely antithetical to my core principles
Uh, i'm just going to pause it right there. Um, do you think that he would be really sorry for it?
If he didn't get caught that is a no because he wasn't soon. No, I don't I don't think so because he was doing it
for a long time because that's a thing he lied until he
The thing is though at that point what can he do like what can he do if that's the case?
I I don't know like it's it's that's the thing. What can you know, and it's not my problem
I didn't lie about flagging people's channels for it
And the thing is and and everyone seems it's weird lying about it is not nearly as bad as actually doing it
Do you think he's gonna cry in this video I just I think there's got to be something we can provide him in terms of
He's acknowledged he's this the the action of saying this stuff gets you like one point at least
Right, but I guess I guess
Well, let's look at it this way, right? I know it's not the same but it
Robbed somebody and then you get caught and then you're like, yeah, I did it. I'm sorry
You've still done something wrong
And what do you get for that until you shoot and kill another robber?
You aren't clear
Well, not until something actually negative how I get that's the issue, isn't it? I guess
Something punishment of some sort
He didn't make a mistake he continually did this over a long period of time
So it isn't against his principles and when he says that it's against my principles. I don't believe you
It's against the principles. He you know claims he wants to have he want maybe he wants to have
But he doesn't actually so what if you let's say you were his older brother and you actually loved the shit out of him
What would your recommendation be like for what he should do next?
Apologize and then maybe
Shoot file maybe, you know, give it a little bit of time. I guess. Yeah, I would say maybe you take a break you need to
Put yourself in a bit of a time out. Is this video monetized?
Sorry, sorry, I just caught that somebody chat said up till now
I gave more of the benefit of the doubt that he truly believes what he says and had a shred of integrity
What's that about?
Yeah
He claims he's left-wing while only ever supporting right-wing candidates
Like lapen and trump and left-wing policies. Is this about me?
Is trump right-wing he's kind of a moderate but I don't even since when do I support trump?
I'm when did you have you ever even talked about politics on your channel before this is a funny thing
V like I think a good half an hour into our conversation. Whatever said, um, I have no idea what your politics are
I was like, yeah, you don't need to know we can just talk about videos and films
So this is completely unnecessary
but the way I look at it is I really I did that political test that went around my discord and I I
shot on like I think it was
Left slightly more left and right and more. What was it? Um, what are the two options that go up and down?
authoritarian
And um libertarian libertarian. Yeah, I was yeah, I was more libertarian than authoritarian though
That's apparently where you probably sound the same as me then I think because that's about where I am
um
Yeah, you know I and I've only spoken to v and sagan about films just like I would happily talk to h bomber guy or
Movie bob even I would happily talk to movie bob about films
If he started telling me that all nazis need to die i'd be like what if he told you you weren't genetically pure enough
to debate him on a movie
That is his prerogative. I suppose well that that's something that I would say obviously
Yeah, I knew by the way that um, any connection to sargon gets me in trouble
But I just i'll just continue with the principle that who I talk to does not determine my beliefs in politics
It's kind of weird to even assume that
Considering me rags fringy and wolf would probably all disagree with each other on different topics about politics
Just because we talk to each other doesn't mean we all follow the exact same
Because fringy is a he is a staunch
Unrepentant white nationalist, but we still
Wolf is a nazi. I'm i'm a good person rags is not these are the differences. I'm a Scientologist. There you go
How dare you deny the truth
I'm curious
If h bomber guy agreed to talk to me
Would I actually do you think that I would actually get a bunch of people who are like wow maul supports, you know hard left ideas
Is that how that works?
Yeah, probably you would might get a few but I don't really know I don't I don't think so
I think they would be the exception
Because this is something that I I rarely rarely ever see
When people from the middle or the right talk to people on the left rarely do I get from the middle or the right?
The accusations that the left throws at people
Yeah, but I get all the fun where people call me like a nazi because I said like one nice thing about trump ones
and then
uh, if I say anything
That's like perceived as left-wing i'm called a communist even though I like
Shit post about why communists are idiots on twitter like regularly?
I'm I get called me though, which makes me really happy. I must be doing something
I just I was like, hopefully that'll clear it up and I was like, no, I won't clear anything up
It's like it's not gonna do shit
Um, I was just gonna say there's uh two things I may as well read out so I can get them done
Instead of trying to stack them up again, um gotta buy some boulders, which absolutely and I understand your questioning of the film
But to expect a film to explain many years of comic lore is just nitpicking like y'all did research to debunk arguments
Y'all could have done the same to understand the law big fan of yours mauler
So the difference and thank you again for the for the donations the the difference is that it changes the stakes in the film
So we're like for example with with the flower power
I'm like you why have we arbitrarily decided that all of these characters are now weaker than they should be
That's taken me out of the film a little bit while um something like I don't know the the full history of of uh
T'challa's dad could be found in the comics if I really wanted it, but I don't need it
It doesn't matter to the story at hand
I mean actually you could argue that it does. Um, but I guess the principle I should explain is that for one the comics are just
Where they adapted from they don't necessarily they can often conflict with the movies
So it's not necessarily reliable sorts of information and to
Your story just just like the last jedi and and whatever else should not rely on third-party information to make sense
To have its stakes to explain the drama it can it can it can inform you'd be like
What's the story of ig88 in star wars? That's usually what I end up going with as an example
We don't need to know for empire strikes back to work, but hey could be cool. Let's have a game about it
Let's have a comic. Why not? Let's just look into it. And that's that's the difference for me
And obviously with context I'd need to argue why um the ones I brought up for black panther affect the plot
But I would happily do that. That's usually how I try and differentiate it
I was gonna say if anyone else wants to add to that or not
Well, yeah, let's say the pertinence to the plot really determines how important it is
I guess if it affects the plot in a way that's noticeable
Like it even raises questions
That kind of needs to be answered then yeah
I mean, that's kind of the premise of plot holes, isn't it? Like if um
You can actually you know, everything that happens in a quiet place
Me and wolf could probably get pedantic enough that we could explain everything away in a book
Like every single interaction and every little thing that doesn't make sense we could explain in a book. For example
They're like, why didn't they move to the river? Me and wolf could write it so that the main character is afraid of water
in large quantities
So there you go. They can't go to the river because she's afraid of it. She has the lassophobia. I think it is fear of water
hydrophobia
but um
You know and you keep going it's like why did the kids put the batteries in the thing that got him killed when you should
Know all about it and then we established that he he can actually i'm not sure how to fix that one
I'd have to work for a while. But uh third party stuff can keep fixing. So it's um
We keep it separate as like a principle and I think it makes sense, right that a story should stand on its own
because um
You can always develop and improve but but it's supposed to
To get the satisfying payoffs that the film has to provide the stakes on its own
It shouldn't have to rely on us reading a book before going to see the film
Yeah, they shouldn't have to hand you a pamphlet as you walk into the theater
How hard to get this on hand
Yeah
Do you want to keep going with the map monday mount? Well, this is the thing about this
I feel like this video is probably going to be as good as it can be
But he's still in trouble. It's probably going to be the conclusion, but we'll uh, we'll keep going
I'm deeply embarrassed by my actions
And i'm embarrassed as a result of the past few weeks
As I said, this is something I should have done a while ago
When it all came down when it all happened
I did the first thing I could think of which is to protect myself
I followed that human instinct
continued on
Like nothing was happening
Issued a statement and just kept moving forward
That wasn't the right course of action
That should have been pretty clear, dude
Like it's the one. Well, yes, it's when everybody all over the internet was like don't do x he was like x seems like the right idea
You should do x so that I don't know x I'm not feeling x
Ultimately what it boiled down to and this is something I I just
Learned over the course of this weekend
Or I should say understood over the course of this weekend
Is that it wasn't about protecting myself? It ultimately came down to protecting my ego
And that is not the right play
That's not the right course of action
I fucked up. I made a mistake. No, no, no, no, you didn't make a mistake
Made a long series of mistakes over a period of months
Which yeah, it comes across as a little bit more than just
Like like, you know angrily punching somebody being like oh fucking you're sorry. I lost my shit
Well, I think I think it's probably worth pointing out that this is one of
Things that you as somebody who also occupies the platform because you should be aware of the fact that you could
someone's livelihood
Yeah, this is a little bit. This is why it's so like this is never going to be good enough because what he did was quite
It's so it's so it's bad for so many reasons like
Taking people's potential sources of money because you don't like what they said when you're a channel
It's all about defending free speech. That's like so fucked up in so many ways
well, I would say, you know imagine if there were some leaked emails from a newspaper where it literally confirmed that they
They lied about certain news stories for particular reasons that benefited them as a company or politically
If they apologize, that's not really good enough because their job is to be honest and they weren't
Yeah, you know it depends on the nature of your mistake relative to what you do
Yeah, and it's one of those things that's unfalsifiable in a sense
Where if he would have gotten angry and punched somebody if he does it again, we would know
but this
I mean, how do you?
I mean, how do you make sure he doesn't anymore, you know, like this is the kind of thing that you can't check
You can't make sure they don't do it again
Yeah, this is you can't recover because you've broken
Any expectations because you take a person you don't know at all and you're like, well, I don't know if I can trust them
But I have no reason not to so you just go ahead with it
And if you know monday night for years, you're like, I can always trust everything said but now you've now this has happened
You're like, yeah, I how could I ever trust you? Yeah, it turns out that all that time I spent trusting him
He was actually doing this
Yeah, but um, yeah
Not hard to get to the end. I suppose
And I want to own it
I need to own it
I want to move forward. I want to use this moment in time as a catalyst not sure how you move forward to be honest
It's pretty difficult in it. Like
I understand wanting to and you're like, explain to me how I do it. It's like oh, man. It's tough
Here's a here's a I'm giving 100
All the people whose videos have flagged to make up for any potential loss that they had
I think it's not just saying you won't do it again. It's a direct attempt to fix the issue that you've created
You know, it's like if you accidentally break something
It's much more meaningful to say. Sorry, I won't do it again, but also fix the broken thing
And it would be to just say oh, sorry, I won't do it again
Maybe this is a good time for him to not only take the break as you guys suggested, but um improve the content
Maybe take one story per week. Well, will will he do that? No, no, i'm saying i'm saying a theoretical solution like
As if monday mat's not gonna actually pay anyone. That's just rags of suggestion
My suggestion would be like create a new mundane mat that's gonna show all of his references
Like a rebranding and be like you don't need to convince us to trust you. You can show the evidence like that would that would help you
I mean because what like he makes very very
very simple
low effort stuff and it's not necessarily bad, especially if you're a news channel, but normally if you have low effort stuff
To like stick sex and hammer, right?
His videos themselves are low effort in the sense that he just talks to a camera, but he knows what he's talking about
He's informed and he has you know, well-formed opinions things like that
And you know that there's research that goes into what he's saying because he references things all the time and stuff that's happening
And he keeps up on the news and he remembers things that have happened. But when it comes to monday mat
He's essentially talking into a camera and he's not charismatic. He doesn't say any anything interesting. He doesn't seem to have any real
Opinions strongly one way or the other and again, if you have his tlj video, I would love
To have that if anyone out there has a copy of it
I feel like we're never gonna get it, but it's worth asking I suppose
Yeah, but seriously if you have monday matts video on star wars that he did
Uh
I would love to see what he said
And um, yeah, I think bringing back uh, polly the polar bear. That would be another um
potential solution
I mean that that was the best
He ever started his channel
You know when I saw that I was just like
That's the kind of thing for me it doesn't matter at all
It was it was such a just like pull back. He didn't get rid of it before everybody
Oh well
Not only for me, but for my family and most importantly my daughter she's part of your family
I own my actions. I apologize for them
And I won't ever do them again
It's like you're saying that your daughter's adopted like my family and
Well, it's his family and his wife's daughter. I was gonna say is I can't remember if that's a b-ball doll
Is it actually his daughter like naturally or is it? Uh, I don't know
I don't know but um, there's no relevant though. Is it?
Yeah, it's just it's just interesting how you see my family and my dog him saying that he'll never do it again
It's like mac. Come on
I don't believe you the you would have said that a year ago that you would never do this
You did well suppose the thing is like you he lied it so it makes it difficult to know whether
Truth he very easily sat in that stream and lied
So he's clearly I mean, he's not a good one because people figured it out
But he doesn't have an issue with bullshitting
and pretending
But how can you take it seriously about it?
Isn't nearly as bad as him going through and actually doing those things for the months
Oh, no. Yeah, of course the actual thing that he did was
Yeah, like that in and of itself shows far more dishonesty than him lying about it protect himself
Like yeah, it's shitty that he lied about it sure but it it's nothing compared to the months of him actually flagging the
That shows more dishonesty
I hope going forward I can earn back the trust of those that i've lost
All 12 of them and we can all move past this as a group together moving forward
As a group, I don't think it's gonna happen
Don't lump me into that. Why are you lumping get past this as a group?
I don't have to get past shit
Towards better things
I just wanted to put this out there and express my deepest regret for my actions
I thank you for your time
Don't remember have a good day
No, maybe but I would say what's going on guys I don't want to talk about oh man, this is gonna be great
Take a break from youtube rebrand the channel
Get a new format going maybe
Take an oratory pass or something be interesting make more high effort content have opinions, you know
um
I would much rather watch tim pool
For which I disagree with on some things because he's he he's honest
And he stands by the things that he believes and he he has principles that he follows
Then I would just some robot talking to a tv
Or a or a camera reading an article telling me what happened
It's like no tell tell me what you think. Give me your take. Give me your opinion. I want to hear it
Also, I was gonna say we probably shouldn't do down with rest as well because we're already at four hours and 20 minutes
Which will push us to like six at least
And it is 250 in the morning
I I need not only to eat but also to go to toilet and basically go back to living life for a bit
Even though this has been a lot of fun
So as I was assuming you guys are pretty much on board with that are you because we could always save down with thrust
Oh, yeah, it's 4 a.m over here. So i'm about to pass out
so
There are links to everyone's channels in the descriptions. I recommend
both wolf rags and fringy because they're all
Very both as I said both wolf rags and fringy. I know my english
Yeah, he he's the fring is just the like the little tecton
Actually both refers to two people or things
Um, you're wrong i'm from I know england better because I am from britain and you you guys are from
Um amarica. No, what what that means is that 500 years ago, you'd be right?
Exactly
exactly
but uh
Yeah, uh, there is a second channel i'm running right now. Wait, did you just use the tradition defense?
Shut up just read a response theory, dude. You're not paying attention
rhino milk
I don't even know how we did that
Alex jones, so wouldn't that one of his sponsors rhino milk? Probably it's got a lot of it's got a lot of um
What even is drink rhino milk?
Brain force the only milk globalist fear
Um, yeah, so subscribe to that channel and you'll be able to catch all of the uh, the episodes that come out regularly
Because there will be on this channel at least. Um, we'll be back on wednesday
Uh with with with I think we're doing
Down with I guess we could do down with us and uh, definitely movie bob's plot holes video
Which everybody wants us to see because i'm i'm even referenced in it by the way
The um, oh i've seen that I saw a clip. He basically he shows a review of black panther
With a parody of sargon's account and he quotes me from my own video
So he's making fun of he has a british accent, but he's combining me with sargon for some reason and he also has about black panther
So we'll have fun
Uh when we get to that on wednesday, I hope you guys uh are interested in having a watch and of course
Thanks for watching and thanks for the donations and uh, I guess say goodbye everybody
Hurray. See you
has uh
Goodbye power
