Eight tales of hot who is on this? Who's this random black guy? Who's the corn?
Raptor butt trilogy
Pounds dinosaur billionaire ass
Pounded by politics nine tales of civic butthole diplomacy
Unicorn tinglers, I mean I can if you want to read some of this stuff. It's great
The final days of founding a
My god, dr. Chuck tingle
Today keeps the but okay keeps the
Titles here's some of the titles if I may read them
Right. So he's got
Pounded in the butt by my own butt
So he gets my own buttocks. That's one of them. He's most popular ones
There is
He's got
Slammed by the substantial amount of press generated by my book pounded by the pound turned gay by the social economic
implications of Britain leaving the European Union
massive run-on sentence there space Raptor butt invasion
The federal government shuts down my butt
My billionaire triceratops craves gay ass
What else we got we've got
heavy metal unicorn lawyer sings into my butthole legally
Yeah, there's this one where he's it's called pounded by the pound turned gay by the
Social economic implications of Britain leaving the European Union. It's a brexit
gay erotica
Gay t-rex law firm executive boner
Yes, and glazed by the gay living donuts
I
Have to I like this like really dark-looking one the complete guide to the void and it's got like the
Illuminati symbol on it looks like he lost his mind at some point very recently. Well, not that you have might have a mind to lose
but
What am I look rags? No, it's just donut. It's just a dance rags
Those you who aren't aware who Chuck tingle is he is this I think he's eccentric
No, he fucking is eccentric. Everything is any I think about it
But he he makes a living out of these crazy gay erotica novels
And I think someone did I think he did ask me anything on reddit or something like that
But he might be autistic as well. So he's this autistic gay
Erotica right and he writes all these books where it's pounded in the butt by something something sentient and something crazy
He also has a thing for dinosaurs as well. So you get like business executives who are also dinosaurs, but also are gay
It's fucking bizarre
But we've been reading some of his stuff on
We are live just you know, yeah, it's all good fine
I put a suitable image on the screen for for what you guys are describing. Thank you rags courtesy of rags
What you that what you just sent I put it on screen just so that people can understand the context of what we're just
I really like I've got breakfast on the brain
Mm-hmm
Uh-huh, cuz it's it's early for you guys, right sort of
British people is later. No way breakfast on the brain
No, I just got breakfast on the brain
Someone said when I clicked on the stream notification, I wasn't expecting gay political erotica. I mean this beautiful
Reading this one. It's a gaze by the glazed by the gate
Oh, oh my goodness
I've actually got access to some of that. Do you want me to read some of this?
Well, the actual thing what's would you like me to read it stargazing? Which one?
uh
Glazed by the gay donuts
Go ahead. Give us a paragraph. See what we'll see what's going on in this. Okay, so
So first I got to set up the the law of this there's some serious world building to this it's set in the world
where there are gay
Sentient donuts these are living donuts and they've been persecuted in Europe for being gay
They're outlawed gay sentient donuts are outlawed. And so they hang out in these CD donut brothels in America
and
And this story is about these four gay guys from California who go
You know to the beach and they're really bored of you know
Gay sex and all that and they heard rumors of this this gay donut bar. So they go scouting for it
So
Here we go
There was hedonism in the streets once the promiscuous nature of these living baked goods was completely exposed
Human donut fucking was entirely outlawed gay straight
All of it the ruling led to a whole slew of human rights arguments
But despite the fact that living donuts could talk think and even love
They were still not considered to be legally human and therefore not afforded the same basic privileges
Jordan rolls over on the blanket and faces me propping himself up on his arm
First of all, there are no gay donuts here in the United States. Thanks to the pastry fucking act of 2016
Not floating around in public, but they're still here I offer you just need to find the right donut shop
I sit up and look to my left far far down the beach where the stores became stranger and sometimes less than legal
They sell weed down there like it's nothing. I say I bet we can get a read on a hot gay donut bar
It's not long before we find a local coffee shop with a mysterious round symbol stuck inconspicuously
on the outer window a signal to those of us who know what to look for our
group heads inside trying to act as casual as possible the man helping us is young and fun a surfer dude who
Surprisingly handsome for being covered in tattoos with more piercings than I can count
His shop is only a small walk up the main drag of souvenir stands and bong boutiques that line the graffiti covered
covered
covered beach boardwalk
What would you like the handsome young guy asks the dark roast is fresh
Actually, i'm not really in the mood for coffee. I tell him my heart beating hard within my chest
How about a donut?
Oh, yeah, we've got those the man says nodding apple fritter maple bar. I hesitate for a moment
Not quite sure how to go about this
Do you have anything a little
Gayer
The man freezes for a moment then
Glances around to make sure our small group of friends are the only people in the store
The coast is clear, but he still seems skeptical of me
But why why would you think we had living gay donuts here?
Why indeed sir, did you want me to continue?
I mean fuck, uh, we've got so many things to get through. I don't know that so here's the thing
I don't i'm worried about spoilers at this point
Well, i've actually got the bit where he does actually
It's it skips a bit because this is an amazon inside look but i've got to the bit where it's the saucy bit
So it's up to you. We can put it. Oh, we should we should leave that to the end
Yeah, put a put a thing on it and uh
We'll just get through our selection of tisms and then uh, we'll try and bring it in at the end to finish off because
Like we'll we'll probably have an hour intro on this one now
Um, but you know what I should say is welcome to fucking
Hooray
We made another we're actually yeah live
It's not it's not over. We're still going. Yes the party continues. Uh, our guest today
I got to introduce him wolf. I know you want to speak all the time over. Everyone is disgusting, but I gotta get
The puppets sorry, um
gay themes
Voxis
Productions a man who who is not a man at all. He's actually
Is it a little behind the fact that you're a puppet? Is this some kind of uh,
tend not to break the fourth wall, uh
Just are you a sentient gay puppet?
Yeah, was there like a science experiment going wrong or was it just you know, well, it's it's up for interpretation
Did you fall in radioactive stuff and just did things?
No, no, no
Yes, you uh, you review lots of media don't you and you are celebrating is it a four year celebration of five year?
Is the five year anniversary?
wonderful
Um, how is my show? How is how has it been on youtube for those five years fun?
Horrifying one of those two both hard work hard work, um, but well worth it
Got some lovely lovely fans and I get to meet some very interesting people like here I am
On on this podcast surrounded by furries and a guy on a gas mask. It's like being in a german fetish club
Yeah, that's wonderful. Actually not too far away from the truth
Anyway, so, you know, we're happy to have you on board. So we're going to be
Doing some really weird, uh things today. Uh, you've seen the salad fingers video, right?
You've I'm sure you're the kind of person that would have seen that
What are you implying that? I'm sort of degenerate the freak
No, isn't it british? That's why of course
Fingers is a very upstanding gentleman. What does it say wolf rags? Have you guys seen?
I'm aware of i'm aware of I saw I saw some of the new one. Yeah, it's
It's just an ultimate test of how much can you take before you stop watching it because it's just yeah
I haven't watched
I watched the whole thing. It's it's like disgusting for the sake of disgusting
But there's loads of themes, uh with salad fingers undeniable themes. I liked uh, one of the top comments on the video was like, um
We've known him for so long. I'm like invested in the
In in salad fingers. I like how people want good things to happen to you though. He's the creepiest fucking thing ever
Um, but the best part of it
Was that they were uh, they were making something some kind of food in in this episode and one of the ingredients was spider milk
So I really yes, uh must be a reference to efap. Oh, man. Oh clearly i'm so glad that
Um, they we have fans in high places. Yep, 100 percent. I was I was impressed
Um
How does one milk a spider? Why the fuck am I asking that? I mean jay's not here
He's our resident milker. Well, he he's in the chat. You can ask him and i'll keep an eye out for his response
Jay, how do you milk a spider?
Why why do people think I hate resident evil too? This is how rumors start. Someone's like how could you hate it?
I did check
The comments in the last video are all like talking about how you don't like residue. It's it's fine. I guess
Speaking of which I fully approve of my android counterpart
I think I should have him on more often since he's apparently better at gaming than you guys god
Yeah, he came close to annihilating all three of us
Rags beaten though. It's all good. I did but he cheated because he made the game go on too long
Because I got all I got all the chungus a couple times he did actually yeah fine like straight up execution style
It wasn't that like the first fucking thing he does is he kills chungus and it's like holy shit
This is the sermon hit setting the tone. He's trying to send us a message. He's like you're next
Oh, yeah, he looked at the screen when he did that but he was it was vengeance for wolf wolf
Did you build the bar or was it something like god gave you or whatever? He was like here you go
Look, I can't just give away my secrets to how I made wolf bot 2000
2000 huh? There you go guys. That's a cool. The 1000 series wasn't exactly good. Oh
Um, yeah, there's a there's a couple people who are concerned that efap gaming is going to replace normal efaps like no
Oh, no, no, it'll never like be that we stop
and only play games
Nice way to unwind and obviously it's not for everybody
but I mean it's nice for us to just actually hang out and play a video game as opposed to
trying to generate some good arguments about exploring fucking
Media while also trying to be a vaguely entertaining, you know
It's a different sort of thing. I mean I happen to think the colonial marines
Playthrough was like really good
Because there's just so much shit about that. That's uh, hilarious. I believe someone's made a compilation. Uh,
Do you remember the name of the channel birds elope with the sun? There you go
Well, he makes a lot of efap compilations
You'll be able to see all the best moments from it if you don't want to watch the um entire thing. I enjoy
He missed some good moments though
Oh, well, that's fair enough. Uh, the yeah, so the point will be like there's a couple of ideas
Like a lot of people like oh do um do jackbox games. Obviously cards against humanity definitely came up. Um,
It was the left of dead one is always going to be an idea
And then we'll probably just be looking for co-op games that are really bad or really good
And we can do some form of a challenge on it or just party games or anything
But it's not going to be this this not like a scheduled like we do it once per month or anything even though
Maybe we could do it
Who knows we shall see but um, it's just it might be good. We've been talking on great british podcasts
Yeah, we might do left for dead. So if you guys
Want to do
four aside left for dead
Our guys versus your guys
um
up to you
hmm
Rex doesn't like the versus who likes the campaign. It's it's really it's really it's really awful
Would you play it just for the meme though rags the efab versus the great british podcast?
I mean if you want yeah, all right
The losers have to make uh videos
You know, we could do the winner's ass if we run run at the same time
Oh because it's just we get destroyed. That's not necessarily true
But what we could do is both both podcasts try and complete no mercy on veteran. We race it
Yeah, let me see what what games have
Um eight players. Let's see. Let me see one of these
I'm sure there's
It can't be too like twitchy based because of the ping between the across the ocean
But we could I mean i'm sure there's ones out there that we could definitely we'll be able to find something
Yeah, like chinese checkers battle royale
I'm curious how even we would do like the crossover of the the seven man podcast
No, six man podcast if if efab's all about responding to videos and you guys are all about discussing things
How does that even happen?
Uh, it'll just be pure fucking chaos. So bring it on beautiful
It'll happen one day
Xcom some people just think minecraft. I'm getting fallout 76 is eight player co-op. Let's do it
Thanks legends. It's like genuinely good. Oh, yeah, I love the way legends
But with the pain doesn't will cause some issues doesn't replace titanfall 3
You know the meme of how every time you look back at tlj something else is wrong
Okay
Yeah
So someone tweeted this at me
If you if you pay attention to how ray is shooting the fucking tie fighters at the crepe battle in tlj, it makes no sense at all
because uh
She's shooting at a 90 degree angle with the turret above here and the window facing outwards even though the falcon itself is just flying
Straight down and it's weird because tfa got this right
But tlj did ryan you can't even get the shape of the millennium falcon right and there's six movies about it
Now come on. Come on. Come on
He has done some good. He you know
Where he is without ryan johnson a lot of youtubers. Okay, ryan johnson is a job creator. Yes
What but he's still fucked up because he created jobs where people are ripping on him
This one in the chat called quinton was a mistake
Dude, you need to see this. I just saw it on twitter. I don't know if I should put this on screen or not
Why do you have this you have to be up on the memes to be able to know the relevance i'm sorry, I know
Oh god, I can't believe i'm saying that jared actually looks good
Oh god, okay, if we have to suffer then the chat has to suffer too. I've put it on but they can see they can see
uh
God damn
Anti viagra right there
Um, but yeah, I think um, i'm happy for us to jump into the first of the uh, we got before memes
There's more than that that exists and I know that these people were like, please watch this one more than four
Wait, we're gonna get to them. We're gonna get where's my watch together. Oh my god
Is that what he looks like without a shirt? Jesus christ? You guys uh, just
Look it does jared not look like really good and
Jared actually does look really good there like jared. Oh my god. I can't believe he looks like he actually looks
Not awful like he reasonable
Yeah, like I mean, who would you rather be looking up at eric or jared?
Oh, fucking jared. No, no question in my mind. I think i'd rather be looking down the barrel of a gun
Well, you'll be looking down. Look you'll be looking down a barrel. All right, but don't
The guns work on
You know puppets. I don't know
All right, so this is our first meme of the day it's from little potato hold up
I gotta click the link for some reason. I yeah little potato is uh, very good to you guys, isn't he?
Well potato is a good boy
He I mean look at the detail already the fact that the the outer end is focused in the film
So he's he's unfocused wolf's face because that would that would be how it would be if he was in the film
He puts way too much effort into this and it's kind of scary
Like it's genuinely terrifying like the quality of some of these memes. Do you think he has like a little shrine dedicated to your
I don't know if I want to know that
Shrine me daddy. I think somebody had this prepared
Bits of pubic hair and stick them on the old
Why not right
So I you guys gotta see this play the fucking video. No, no, I just got sent this on twitter
I think they prepared it for this
Oh my god
Is that who made this I don't well, this is the thing it came from big channel twitter
Is that supposed to be jj bigs? I'm pretty sure right? Yes, that's gotta be jj because the glasses
Awful they were gas basketers
Oh my god
In fairness
We were the ones that told people to do or at least I was the one that told people to do it
So I guess it's kind of my fault the second you theorize that you're like this has to be done
It's important
Well, I I mainly did it just because I really wanted jay to have to live with this for the rest of his life
I want it to haunt him later on like when he's 70 he'll like think back to jj bigs
Jj bigs so fun. Oh, dude, you know what?
uh, he was he did a um
like a video
about on shawn's video on uh
Star Wars, I don't know if any of you guys saw that who jay. Yeah, he he he called it how not to defend tlj
and um
He just tackled a few of shawn's arguments and one of the comments in the video was um, uh, I don't like how much time
Jay is spent on efab. I think it's starting to change his work. Also like that was like
They were like, I don't like this
They saw oh, yeah, that was the comment that said that um
We think there has to be justification for people not being a straight white male. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I heard about that
Um, wait, it was on my discord. That was the comment
Hold up. There's a comment that I saw where
This guy was saying oh, you shouldn't hang around with those those guys. They're very unsavory people
I don't know why you'd hang around with people who think there has to be justification for a character not being a straight white male
I love what they could draw out of what we say is fascinating
And then we just sit here looking at jj bigs
I gotta scroll up so I don't see eric taxon's fucking ugly face in his
Jesus christ, so is everybody ready to watch this wonderful meme that i'm gonna have to pause as well because it is rogue one after all
Yeah, okay. Let's do it
What
I don't know why people like that so much
There's a lot of relevant stuff that's very meaningful to what you're trying to say that you cut out and didn't talk about
This was on purpose
Shut up you smug cunt
It's perfect it's bulletproof
Oh
That scream
Goes so well with avengers music
As far as retcons go
Did you guys notice there's an actual name that the memers have like applied to that it's the jrc 170 like the
jaredrc
Yeah, I was like this video is slightly longer than I'd expect for no no intro was like oh wait this ball
Oh
What the fuck film you are drunk
Oh
I can't wait for the sequel. No
That's really good. Um, that's one of my favorites
Oh, yeah, it's a good one. It's a really good one
I'm starting to wonder when people are gonna start like looking back and finding all the choice quotes they can actually use because uh
It seems like everybody has to use that it's like everybody uses the same dog bark as well
Yeah, i've never even made that sound whoever did that first like they set the trend
What rags is bark? What am I looking at?
Oh my god, so this is this is interesting. Somebody made a buffy meme
So i'm the only person here. I'll probably fucking understand the source, but it's relatively clear. No, I saw this. I saw this one
I've seen what it's referencing. Um, yeah, I got it
Yeah, just for context. This is this is a creature that can't be killed in the in the season
but he's from medieval times he's brought forward and uh
The the funny thing is that they're like our team of heroes is like wait what an rpg work on him
No weapon forged can stop me
That was then
Now mauler's the woman oh god
Jared's face
What's that do hello
So subscribe jared goes the rest of me
Jared's almost said a thousand subs I think
Yeah, he joined my discord and left it again
Um, someone asked him for audio files for the meme that they were making they wanted him to say certain things
And he declined and he said he doesn't want his whole content to be related to efap anymore
I just like guys he'll become too famous. It'll go right to his head. He's just being very modest. Very humble
Before you before you start this next one
everyone
Jared is seven subscribers away from a thousand get him to a thousand right now if you're not subscribed to him
Just type in jared genesis. I'm gonna be looking at his social blade
And then we're gonna party for him my goodness. What will he do when he gets to a thousand?
I'm afraid to know because we already seen what he done. He might detonate the channel
Oh, don't do that. Jared
But please get him to seven seven more guys. Oh six more
Just six more guys. Come on. You can do it. Wolf just like needs this
Oh my god, he said a thousand thirty. Whoa. Okay. Whoa
Yeah, jared
Wolf is like the number one fan dude
There you go. So now we have to celebrate good god
Good job. Oh my god, a thousand seventy now
He made a video called boogie 29 88 failed his 30-day diet
Okay, he's almost at 1100 now so
Stop maybe stop people. No, no, no, no, no. Don't stop don't stop. I want to see what he makes
Because this is gonna blow his mind. He's gonna detonate the channel if you keep going. No, don't do that. He does
Jared keep it
Keep it
So um keep it the next one on the docket if you will is uh, this one's like really testy for a copyright
Especially really careful with it because the guy had trouble actually getting it up, but this is from creamy sheave actually. Oh
Um, oh, sorry the last one I probably should have mentioned was from
zoey trope all one word
And uh, it was just neat getting a buffy one because it means somebody actually gave a shit when I said I like buffies
Anyway
Who is that in the other hand, uh rhino milk and bilbo baguettes, oh
Oh
Everybody's really uh keeping continuity with the whole the reverse of my mask is just all black
I love that. It's always jared who comes to save guys. Jared jinnis is here
What the fuck who wrote this
And i'm ran
There's no reason not to farm rhino
People like these fanboys that accept whatever piece of shit bill may see and say this is okay. I like this
Shit
You can do this, but i'm just letting you know right now
It's not going to be good on that part
But something sounds holy shit really
Dude just
We don't want to kill you, but we will freeze frame
You'll never get the chance again shut up. He's smoking
Oh my god, he's queer I apologize I can't remember dude's name but
Two histories of efap it just never ends
And then look at all the apostrophes
Is
He said there is a last one yes, yeah the other half of the animation I got it
This shit is wonderful by the way just before we show it just uh, I love it. This is from no consistency
Yeah, let me explain to you why we have a tiger farm because we want milk and food
It's a hippopotamus farm
I like that free is still black. We have a t-rex farm for its milk
Like if somebody sits underneath a rhino to try and milk it like what has to say back in the front of your head
No, you would ever do this. What is milking a rhino? That just seems so like what if it decides
It doesn't want to be milked anymore and impaled what it's drawn
Yeah, rhinos will fuck you up. One of my boss just said that's not milk you get him from the rhino
Listen it's tradition. Okay
Everyone knows that in makonda every friday you drink the rhinos come but it just makes sense. All right
It's tradition
I like these animations a lot. They're awesome
You know someone's going to make like an absurdly detailed like 60 fps animation
And it's going to scare the hell out of us
It is going to be scary has shown me they've only got as far as making me so far
They're making a 3d efap with 3d models of all of us
Holy mother god, these people have too much
Who knows what's going to happen in the future with this?
They're going to like
Someday, they're going to like 3d print a jared and like just have him walk around
We need to download his brain
So future's opinion is implied. Oh dear future generations can enjoy him
So, yeah, that's that's it for me which means we're pretty much done with the intro and look at that 30 minutes
That's it's only slightly worse. That's really one of the fastest intros ever true
What was our longest like an hour 10 minutes or something? It was something like that
You just kept going and going and going
Who's my fault? But yes, uh more memes next time i'm sure thank you all so much for your um
Your passionate takes on
What is essentially the subtext of efap, you know, what is actually happening like that's what all those representations are
uh
so first up
If you guys all remember we we talked about a video from joseph anderson called uh subjectivity is implied which is
Probably one of the most backward implications for a video ever like the idea that it's like by the way
I don't have to tell you about this thing
And then you proceed to tell everyone about it
It seems kind of counterproductive, but it was it had other issues in the video. We covered it
And snowman gaming is another channel who decided that it was probably worth doubling down for joe
Um, and we're just gonna check out his perspective, you know
I don't know if any of you've seen videos from him
I've only seen a couple and they just like they remind me a lot of mark brown where um
Typically not a lot is said. Uh
just like
Declarative stuff that's that's relatively simple. I mean if he's trying to be mark brown, of course, not a lot's gonna be said
Okay, you just want everyone to be long. That's it, isn't it?
It bulge. Um, yes
Well length does matter
So what about is short if tiny man bad too, is it short man good? Is that the
That way we need to go
Are you gonna figure out this formula?
I don't want to make any declarative statements yet
But it might be in the running
All right. Uh, so yeah, this is the first time we've ever seen one of his videos
So, you know, it could be great. Um, i've seen
I saw this when it came out and i've mostly forgotten what's in it now
So this will be relatively candid. Uh, I believe voxus has checked it out rags and wolf have not I think that's
Yeah, the bear right. Okay. Here we go
It's shit
Hey, man, I love this terrible intro the beautiful
It's fine the no the art i'm the arts fine the music is awful
Yeah, I probably wouldn't go with that personally, but I mean just don't do intros people just don't do it
Hey, man, I had an intro my tfa series. So what's that about you hate intros now?
Yes, at least your intros have like substance to it
This is just like let's have a snowman with this like really generic 2d art style
And then it says snowman gaming. Yeah
I mean
You know, it's it is what it is. Are we right? Yeah, it is what it is. Also snowman milk. That didn't take long
This is a snowman. Yeah
I don't like your face. I was gonna say, you know beginning a video with a sigh. It's like a trope
Oh
He doesn't do it but the uh, the whole I really hate trump
The other one where they go. I didn't want to have to make this video
That's like my favorite
It's like oh, I didn't want to make this video
I did that too
Don't like video
Well, you know what? We all we also we all don't know it's a trope until we're showing it's a trope. So it's okay
It was a trope well before that I don't like persona five
I finally played it after endless recommendations from friends and even though i'm not a big fan of rpgs and especially the
You guys any of you played persona five?
No, no, I live it every day. Oh
In my room. I haven't played it
Yeah, so the best we can do is take his word for uh, what he's saying right now because I don't know
Aesthetics aesthetics, isn't it aesthetics?
There's too many differences on the ass aesthetics. Well, it's that it that's fine. That's uh, jim stillen says
Aesthetics, I think
There's a lot of different people pronouncing it to me. I I I say aesthetics
Well, you know, it would almost be implied because it's a th and it makes a th sound
Wait, the th makes a th sound how dare you will
aesthetics
Yes, well he's responding to the jim stillom being aesthetic. I like aesthetics. I think that's what
I think that's what jim stilling says
I put the ass in aesthetics
beautiful
And I put the aim of its analysis
And that's true. I put the pal in principle
There you go
I put the prince in principle. It's unique aesthetic flair. Unfortunately, it was aesthetic. That's what he said
Yeah, I think that's what jim stillen says too weird, but I don't know aesthetic flair
Unfortunately, it was as I had feared and after sinking 12 hours into it
Which I feel was a generous amount of time. I quit playing because it's not enjoying most aspects of the game
Of course, there were things I liked the combat and lead up toward the first major boss battle was a really exciting
Palace and gearing up to confront that jerk kamoshida, but immediately after I hear that jerk
He's got to say very uh jerk
There's like a line he won't he won't cross just like mark brown. I think that's the most combative you'll ever hear them be
You're a meanie bow. This fictional character is a jerk
Moshita but immediately after I couldn't stand that the stakes seemed to just vanish before my eyes
It wanted me to stop, you know, you know when i'm hungry the stakes vanish before my eyes, too. I get it
Oh, um
Oh my goodness. Is this a fucking hentai? Ah, I love the feeling of noodles sliding down my throat
dripping over my face
Big tingle right this man. I think it would actually go by this game now sent you noodles
You send to my room
Um, yeah, uh, because I know where he's going with this but you know, like the idea of stakes in uh in a storyline
That's totally explainable. Uh
With reference as in like, you know
Uh, someone's like oh man
I was so invested in whether or not ray would make it in that throne room scene
But then the stakes were ruined because the enemy's weapons disappeared
When you said the stakes were ruined, I just had a mental image of like burned steak
There are people in this world who are like, yeah
I'd like a steak and i'd like it well done because I hate everything good in this world and then they dunk it into
Imagine getting a steak saying well done and then when it arrives you put ketchup on it
Oh
Look guys
Don't don't put that thought
You can enjoy eating charcoal, you know
Chat we're not saying that you're a bad person if you
Get well done steak and put ketchup on it. We're just saying we want you to unsubscribe immediately. You're not a bad person but
You might as well eat a fucking shoe
Okay, okay wait question consistency you're gonna have very important question. Well done steak with tomato sauce all over it or
Uh loads of pineapple on pizza
That sounds like ketchup but longer like like is wait is ragu tomato sauce
Um, I would I like spaghetti sauce. How do I answer this question? Well, no, listen is like what's the difference?
Spaghetti sauce those are both tomato sauces fine. That's fine with me, but you don't put tomato sauce on a steak
But what if someone did?
What would you do then ranks would you explode I mean they already got it well done
So it's ruined already. Nothing putting on top of it is going to make it good
That's my question. You can make it worse though
Answer the question like even if you ruin it, you could still make it worse
Like you could poop on it
You know rags is not wrong on this and uh, I i'd rather eat a well steak well done steak without
Then one that had poop on it
I wouldn't even even if someone scraped the poop off as as foxes just posted right
Eat all of those slices of pizza or have the well done steak with ketchup
What would you do? I would have a well done steak with ketchup
Instead of oh wait eat the pizza that no i'll take the well done steak pineapple does not belong on pizza
That is an objective image I posted was was pizza on a giant pineapple
But there's pineapple on the pizza as well. I thought it was yeah
That's not relevant cheese. Well, why is it cheese? It's a four cheese pizza. Why does the
Why is the cheese look what are the wait? Wait, wait, what are the four cheeses?
Is does that matter when there's that much pineapple? Yes, it does matter. It doesn't matter
Cheeses are wildly different when there's that much pineapple really to cheddar to american to wensley dale to gorgonzola
Or cheeses can destroy a pizza as well
It's like it's just I don't know man the difference in cheese just isn't going to change much when there's that much pineapple
All right, there's no way does that belong on this
Efap asking the important questions. So, uh, you take the well done steak, huh?
I just wanted to make sure about that because pineapple pizza is the biggest sin
In food, I believe right currently. No, no, you can get you can get grapes. You can get grapes on pizza
I would take that over pineapple personally
Why would you put grapes on pizza? That doesn't make sense
Well people will people put olives on pizza and a grape is like a a weird olive, right?
No, it's not olives are not the same as grapes. I didn't say they were the same
I said that a grape is like a weird olive. You can't just no, it's not a weird olive. It is a weird
A grape is absolutely a weird olive. A grape is not the same as an olive. You know, an orange is just a weird apple
What the fuck have I done
A grape tomato is like a weird grape
All over the fucking olives. You can't just compare grapes to olives. I would rather take a no you can't
How can you compare them how can ones like a grape is like a weird olive
To qualify this how is a grape a weird olive beyond like, you know how you have tomatoes, right?
You know how you have cherry to those are like really weird cherries because they
What the hell is a cherry tomato a cherry you don't know what a cherry tomato is no
It's like a tomato. It's like a weird cherry. Oh my god. Okay
Okay
Okay, I just going to concede this because you have the worst arguments imaginable. I haven't even made an argument yet
I know all you keep saying is it's just a weird grape or it's a weird tomato
Yeah, i'm not wrong. Apparently snowman is in chat. Someone said that anyway snowman. I need you to understand that a grape
Can we have a legitimate question and this relates to your video completely?
What would you rather have a well done steak with tomato ketchup on top of it or?
Um a pineapple pizza if you had to choose between them
You had no choice gun to your head
The consensus right now is going for the steak and I think i'd probably agree with that you see because weird
Is like abnormal, right?
Uh-huh, which means which means that a pizza is like a weird
um grape
Are you fucking high
would be the fist time
It is uncanny you do the state otherworldly one. Is there anybody who would pick the pineapple pizza?
Oh my god, can't you pick the pineapple off the pizza?
Would that be so bad if you just yeah
But you still have a little bit of pineapple aftertaste because there would be some in there. Well suck it up buttercup
You wouldn't have a choice you'd have to
Because it would get into the tomato sauce
True
Have you ever had a pizza that had pineapple is?
Well, what if it's grilled and it's like shrively and charred slightly? Well, there you go. It's it's dried out
You don't have to worry about the juice. Have you ever eaten a grilled salad?
Oh wait grilled salad. I used to work. I used to work in a restaurant and
we would have it's one of those high-end steakhouse schmoozy places and
one of the things that we offered for lunch was
um
Her caesar salad was grilled
Why would you do that because because it's a weird grape
Sit I don't food is weird people are weird
Uh, someone make a video about how food is implied. We're just saying that don't put pineapple on pizza
Don't make a well done steak
They take the iceberg the people who want snowman on right um
Well, this video is pretty short. We'll do that and if he wants to come on we'll totally have him on it'll be a crazy
Crazy just right. How how short is pretty short?
Well, it's six minutes left and I think the first third of it is him going over persona
So we'll be able to get through that. We just went on like a 10-minute rant about grapes
Well, if you just if you would just accept that a cherry tomato was like a weird cherry
I don't know what a cherry tomato is so I can't exactly make a judgment on though. Just google cherry
That implies that I would have
My fingers and I really care to give for you know, exactly what a cherry tomato is
You just don't know it's called a cherry tomato. Okay, fine. I'm looking up a cherry tomato
And while you do that they put on we're gonna go ahead and can
Oh, that's what they are
They're like weird cherries
Why did you just call them little tomatoes?
Because their name is literally cherry
Okay
Well when I didn't say when I said that I didn't know what you were talking about all you just had to say was
Well, they're little tomatoes. They are you couldn't of course, they're little tomatoes
Instead you describe them as
You said describe them as like weird grapes and that doesn't make sense
No, they're not they're really tomatoes. They're midget tomatoes. They grow from a vine, right?
They go from a viney sort of thing. A lot of things grow from vines rags. Exactly
Doesn't mean that they're all the same
They're not all the same. They're different
Well, you can't just say they're weird grapes when they're really just little tomatoes. Did you even know that a cherry tomato was also known as grape tomatoes?
No, then life hero stuff. Yeah, it's a classic
Okay, yeah, so we all good
We all good. I mean, I've always been great wolf. Apparently he's the one here with a problem
So, uh, you know, how about that uh stone man gaming video he's right here
Let's give him this give him a chance to actually listen to him. All right. Sorry
That larger than life hero stuff and focus on my schoolwork and take my friends out for a bite to eat
Of course this was a part of the game already
But going from this to pollen warnings and getting a part-time job was very anticlimactic
On top of this everything happens so slowly dialogue seems to drag on and on with meaningless filler
And they kept adding in new mechanics tens of hours into the game. So I decided couldn't that be a good one
I have a tail. Uh, I will say I mean obviously I haven't played the game. So I don't know really what the context is
But I mean I I have played
I mean
I have played games where they introduced some new mechanic like randomly toward the very end of the game and it was like well
this would have been great if you introduced it like at the very beginning where it was useful, but I
Mean it can't throw off the the the pace. It's like even Ori you get like a mechanic pretty late some of the
last one. Well, yeah, but the whole game is
based on
Your leveling system. So
Yeah, I guess I guess I'm suggesting it's like it could be a good and a bad thing
Depending on the context I did to hang up my mask
I thought about how in the world I could form my experience into a video drag down all the aspects
I didn't like about it. Maybe make a scalding bad game design
But then you know, you could just like make a list
And you'd be like these are things I didn't like and you write them down and they like use things I did like
And you write those down
And then you make a review and you talk about the things you like and didn't like I think
I feel like this could have been like a whole video on its own. Well, I think he's he's using it
as an example of
What's going to happen, right?
So like if he had made this video theoretically
How people may or may not respond to it and then that's where the title the video is going to come in
All the aspects I didn't like about I don't I don't think that this is a slight tangent
Bear with me though. I don't think that somebody should I don't think that somebody should be taking advice on how to
Maybe make a scalding bad
I feel that the cat doesn't have much of a vested interest. Hey look I I own a cat and that cat knows that cat owns you
Okay, that's true, but the cat still cleans himself all the time
What?
What the fuck what am I supposed to say? Yeah, my cat does own me like, all right
Own up to the first chunk here is my thoughts on persona, but it goes into a different a totally different
Thought tied to it right here. Someone's saying that's not a cat explain this bullshit. How is that not a cat?
I don't know man. This seems like a crazy play it and pause on the cat
How is that not a cat
Uh
Is it like some sort of like a like a that's a chibi cat. It's an animal cat
Yeah, that's what they it's clearly a cat
Yeah, it's still cat. It's just drawn in like a chibi art style. Mm-hmm. Is it chibi or chibi?
I I don't know. I don't speak japanese. I don't either
Voxis you speak japanese go
Me love you long time
Ex I didn't that is a cat maybe make a scalding bad game design
But is it a rat I realized I couldn't make that video
I couldn't objectively find anything wrong or bad about persona five, you know
It's not like you were describing some things of a pretty objective
If they were true, I mean, I mean I could say that i've tried to play near
I'm gonna butcher this stupid name
Automata yeah, i've tried playing that is like a weird tomata
I actually agree with that. It's I mean I tried playing it
It's like I see like a good game in here, but I just can't
Get into it. I've tried it so many times, but would the conclusion then be that it is actually pretty good
I just don't like it. Oh, yeah
I mean, I would I would say from like the five or six hours I played of it that it is a good game
It's just not really my thing
So like really you couldn't find anything objectively bad about it or any
Apparently anything or anything wrong or bad about persona five. It just okay objectively that hamburger is way too big
There's no way he could eat that. There you go
You just go get rags to play it. He'll find
Look at the guys staring at him. They're even like, whoa, that's a big ass. Yeah, they're like, I don't understand
This isn't this isn't right. Look the cat's in the bag across from him
Oh god, don't let the cat out of the bag. Why did he kidnap the cat and take it to a burger place?
Clearly look at the dialogue i'm rooting for you and remember nobody think any
I I think maybe the cat is like, uh, a figment of his imagination. He's probably it must be
He's saying you need to eat a burger before you shoot a school. I'm rooting for you. Make them pay dude
I really want to know the price
How dare they laugh at your burger? I want to know the price of that. That's just a typical american burger
I don't know. I don't see anything standard
See I have a problem with how small in america looks like it's bigger than his stomach
That's just a five-guy burger
Our cousins across the pond they're sewing him to us
We need to we need to address something else which is these table designs
Notice how the tables kind of dip in a little bit on their flat surfaces
So how do you push them together without creating a gap in between them? I guess you know, that's gonna bother me
That's gonna I know it won't be on screen for long guys. It'll be fine
Why'd you have to point that out just wasn't but look these guys have no eyes
Oh my god, he's living in a world consumed by the monster from pan's labyrinth
They're all in their hands
Yeah, they're they're just gonna like put their hands up against their faces and then they're gonna like chase after you and eat your favorite friends
Maybe it's symbolism. Maybe maybe they're at fuddruckers. Oh, man. I haven't been there
No, it's supposed to represent that they're not important people
So their features are ill-defined because he's not really focusing on them to him
These other people are just like a backdrop to the universe that he lives in
Maybe maybe or maybe they're they're blind to the events of uh, the the rape of nanking. Maybe it's very political
Look how he has the shopping in his hand it clearly is some sort of a commentary on the commercialization of japanese culture
Oh, yes. Yes
It's the westernization. It seems like that the game
Look, he's going into a a 777 a symbol of capitalism and commercialization
Yes, I see what you mean. You know, 777 is the number of the beast
Plus the neighbor of the beast is no it's actually plus
111. Yeah. Well, that's your opinion. Yeah. Yeah 111. I don't know what math is
But
Seven's a lucky number. He's going into a place that clearly symbolizes luck and his
His desire for personal fortune and happiness and so he's he's blowing by the things that slow other people down
I still choose to interpret this as an unofficial sequel. I don't I think maybe we've been looking too far into it
And that we're only supposed to listen to it
But I don't know and that's postmodernism in a nutshell
There we go. I realized all right. This is a video. I couldn't objectively find anything wrong
Protein lovers five. It just wasn't a game for me too. And that's okay
In fact, this happens all the time, doesn't it? All right. All right, hold up
Hold up if you have to travel if you have to run down an alleyway to get to a convenience store
That's not a convenience store. That's an inconvenient store
Yeah, but they'll call themselves a convenience store just to bs people. Well, that's just like them, isn't it?
It is just like that. We should sue them
We should get an efap when you say them
You have three you have three parentheses on each end, right? When you say that means I don't even know what that means
Oh, you know what that means chat, you know what that means, you know about the the glorious them
I
the asians
No them
the swedish hats
them
cats
No, we've definitely discussed cats. Oh the jews
You can't say that it's like they are it's they who shall not be named
Turd on a white carpet because you know
When you say it then they'll like come sniffing and then they'll steal your money. Oh great. Look at the chat
It's gonna personally hunt you down
So anyway
Here is a video in here. I believe i'm gonna i'm gonna roll it right back
Let's let's see how far we could get before something aesthetically is uh
Wrong or bad about persona 5. It just wasn't a game for me and that's okay
In fact, this happens all the time, doesn't it?
We all probably have a game that we've heard so much about but found we didn't enjoy it when we played it ourselves
Is there anything wrong with us for not liking such widely praised titles?
I guess he's trying to set the framing. I don't think anybody would disagree with that
Ever but I mean what the problem is is like you don't have to
Uh like it, but I mean I wouldn't make a video on near because I know I don't like the game
But I can't really come up with an argument from objectivity about why I don't like the game
Like is there any actually is there actually any human being in the universe who's like, no
It's not okay to not like a game like well, you just said hopefully that's not controversial
Like yeah, I don't like anybody on the planet would say like it's not okay to not like something that's liked
Yeah, like why spend a third of your video talking about it when no one's ever said it
It's the setup you gotta wait for the the payoff
Your opinion is valid
Then why does it seem like there's such a rise in conflict when it comes to games discussion?
Our culture seems to be increasingly focused on finding hot takes and ripping them apart limb from limb
Often this is under the guise of joking with friends or being sarcastic. Oh god, does that account for us?
Okay
Man i'm getting some tonaled vibes from limb often
This is under the guise of joking with friends or being sarcastic
But I think it stems from a little kernel of truth in how we really feel
And this is especially true when the original thought is negative in tone
If I posted on twitter that I thought persona 5 was a terrible game
No doubt i'd get multiple replies saying how wrong I was
Which is correct the poster or the replies?
Well neither right or maybe both depending on how you look at it. Well
Terrible I guess
Yeah, and then when you got to support that argument
Yeah, I mean if you don't put up a support for that argument
Obviously people are going to disagree with you with such a widely liked game like that. Wait a second
What is there a point to put more than one heater in a barn?
I thought one heater would do the trick. I guess it's a particularly cold area
Well, if it's like a really tiny heater and you want it like the wall that it's not going to
I thought it only took one heater. Oh
I don't know. Maybe
This guy's just made of money. He's flexing. I would have been more concerned about the howling abyss outside of the uh
Oh, i'm just seeing a blue screen right now. I don't give a
These people are just stating their opinion though. Probably not in a productive way
There's a difference between personal taste and fact this is common sense stuff
But the real problem comes when a content creator makes a video on the topic
You see something weird happens when someone publishes a piece of I bet this guy has like 50 funko pops
Oh, is he is he butt hurt that people didn't like his video?
I don't I don't instead of being
Content creasing wait, hang on
He's making a point about when you make it a video versus expressing an opinion
I guess creator makes a video on the topic
You see something weird happens when someone publishes a piece of media
Instead of being viewed as any other discussion in which people have differing views there's an air of authority
That's perceived when watching a video and it's assumed that the creator thinks their opinion is the one and only true thought
Oh
So I see why he's going with it benefit of the doubt
He's saying that people tend to look at a video as a much more declarative statement. That's
Like not something you can argue with almost like if I say
Tlg is so bad than some guy out there
It's like it's not though that video should be taken down because it's wrong. It's incorrect versus me posting on discord
Man tlg is so bad. They'd be like, you know, well you're just a guy. So who cares?
like the video stands as some form of uh
If if the video is up, it must have meant meant meant it's true. I don't know
I don't know. I think it's just a matter of the fact that it's instead of you
Just talking with one two or a couple people in real life and you're doing things
It's up on the internet broadcast to thousands and thousands and thousands of people and everyone is able to give their feedback to it
constantly
And it's not even face to face
So people feel more inclined to be more honest and direct and blunt about how they feel
Yeah, I was gonna say like it's just such a huge difference in the media that you're using to give your opinion on
to present a counter like
Opinions that go into videos tend to receive so much more
Like counters and supports just because it's like almost like a forum at that point
Maybe that's I mean, that's what the comment section essentially
Yeah, like as opposed to it being that people sense it as a more authoritative take it's just that hey
I can talk about this thing here. And this is the jumping off point for the discussion
Um, especially if you're a controversial creator
Like if you're um, if you're someone who hates everything and then you go by the way, this thing is good people be like
Oh shit, let's all talk about that because clearly he's said this for a reason blah blah blah
I'm curious where he's going. Yeah. Yeah. We'll have to see where this is going on people didn't like my video authority
I think he's going with it's not even that incredibly disliked from that bar. Yeah, it's better than tone old
It's a better result. Yeah, i'm curious. Maybe we should put this on um
On a future refab this this particular video. See what it's like
I'm curious. Oh, well, you know
Also, you're a terrible person for not using dark things
In fairness, I only just started using it because I um, I liked the old
Well, the problem was you had to upgrade to the newer youtube I kept um
Uh not choosing that because I like the old one
Um to the point we have to change it in the uh, whatever it's called source view or whatever you have to like uncheck a thing
um
but uh
Yeah, sorry. I just want a bad game. I'm what i'm curious. What do you talk about in that video now?
Google had a dark theme
With everything at a dark theme
Everything should have a dark theme once I found out that microsoft word had a dark theme. That's all i've used
Should be a human right
I just put dark theme on theme on file explorer. Don't worry snowman gaming. We'll get there. This is efap style
We uh, we go through it piece by piece have different it is every frame of pause
It's an air of authority that's perceived when watching a video and it's assumed that the creator thinks their opinion is the one and only true font
Not only is this ridiculous, but it drastically limits the amount of discussion that can take place because authority is almost irrelevant on youtube as in uh
You it's usually arguments as in you never catch somebody being like, um
Okay, I i've already caught myself because i'm like you do catch people doing this
But they're not right when they do it if someone says something like uh, i've studied film for 10 years
So i'm right when I say that x y
yeah, like
Arguing from authority is never going to work and then you'd be like, so when is authority relevant and i'd be like, uh
People can sometimes say it to be like this is why I know the thing
But other than that, I would say that the biggest thing is that it helps to
Try and convince people that what you're saying is right
Well, that would depend on what the authority is
Yeah, yeah
Like are you going to call upon some sort of academic or are you going to call upon right another youtuber?
Who's got more views than you like if I said popular as Socrates what's said of?
pop
Someone being popular is an authority figure and that's not necessarily the case. Yeah, I know that people aren't going to
like this too much but um
Technically, uh, I can't remember what her first or middle name is but ford whoever her name is
she can say that she's a
Authority on rape because cavina raped her even though there's no evidence to suggest that it ever happened
We can't get political just because some bitch lied about the dude. Oh god
Basically what i'm so
If you are using your authority if you're claiming
That your authority is evidence for the argument's conclusion
That's well to give you an example
um, so on one hand like people have said that I I
Project an authority and i'm always like what does that mean?
Like I've never actually claimed any authority
So and then on the other other hand when I was having a twitter argument with mother's basement
They at one point did the meme where they were like
Uh, I used to think like you but you know, then I improved or then I got better or then I evolved as as we all knowingly
Love it. Um, and that's really condescending. It really is and then I was like, what the fuck that he was like
What is your like experience here? And he was like i've been working on um media now for like over five years
And I was just like, okay
You can still be wrong. But media is a really broad term. I mean if you post on facebook all day
Media savvy even if he was uh
You know like being
Specific like if he was like I have worked on this game personally therefore you saying the hit boxes are not in line with the models
Is wrong i'd be like that's not an argument
Because you worked on it. Yeah, that'd still be fallacious too
In fact, it would highlight that he's got a bias that we'd have to account for
That he can't really be trusted on the analysis. So what i'm suggesting is I don't know that anybody's ever brought up
Authority in media analysis on youtube in order to make their argument better because it's it's fallacious at the core, right?
Yeah, I mean the only time when you could pull it off is if
Whatever you're talking about is subjective and it depends
On what you say like you specifically and even then you can't tell for sure because someone could be lying
Anyway, we're we're getting close to when this video delves into where we're not going to agree
Can take place
Because instead of being inherently subjective it boils down to a right or wrong mentality
Often i'll see comments of people that got hung up on one little detail of a video because they didn't
You didn't exactly make it very clear that it was a joke to be fair and you put that joke in a section that
Already bashed old games and said they suck which already would have made people defensive
The joke is definitely a bad idea man
One little
Um
The fact that he calls right flicker in eight-bit era glitches proves
He has no idea of the physical limitations of the hardware running these games how limitations impact every facet of the game design
Um, so right
Gotta gotta gotta pull out the police badge here
So if you're claiming there's like sometimes people will take something like this and say like the whole video is bad
I'd be like, yeah, that's bad. That shouldn't happen. However, that's not what the comment says
Um
It does say you have no idea about the physical limitations of the hardware and his his argument for that is that you
Apparently don't know the difference between a bright flicker and an eight-bit era glitch, which I I wouldn't know either
But they're not saying your whole video is worthless as far as I can tell from that comment
Maybe
Yeah, which
Obviously that comment isn't proof, but I I don't know if that's true if it is true
Yeah, but if if somebody votes up a video and likes it because of one part despite the rest that's fine
But if somebody down votes a video and dislikes it because of one point despite the rest that's bad
They didn't agree and this one was
Just whether or not something was overtly a joke or not
Joke was definitely a bad idea. I mean, it's interesting. It's got 81 up votes
Apparently a couple people did feel this was relevant, but I don't know it's complicated when it comes to jokes
Instead of taking the entire piece as a whole and weighing the pros and cons or worse also
Wait, taking the entire piece as a whole and then weighing the pros and cons wouldn't that?
Wouldn't weighing the pros and cons
pros and cons
It wouldn't it be what has more value to you?
Is the whole missing the forest for the trees thing that a lot of people are accused of efap and i'm always curious to explore
What they mean all what they think they mean by that because uh a video is comprised of statements
So analyze the statements and you've analyzed the video. They're like, nope, you've missed the overall point. That's usually what they say
but uh a good point poorly presented is a
Bad video
We well, we'll see. We'll see. It's I think it's relatively fine so far, but i'm pretty sure my contention was later on
And now you're right
It's been an example in comparison to many have gone
I was gonna say if I was gonna point out that people have said my videos and they have they've taken like one error
In a ds2 video and said like this this is this is clear evidence that the series is terrible
Terrible the my I could easily get them right now
I just have to stitch keywords
But the fact that i've got the date wrong at the beginning of my black panther video people have said like if you can't
Get the date right i'm not watching the rest that i'm like, all right
All right
Fair enough, you know see one saying that I really need to quit present
Stop presenting your opinions as facts nest games were not poorly designed because they're punishing
Lives are not artificial difficulty losing them as a punishment for making mistakes
The reasons games were hard is because they were both expensive and really short
You can beat the first castlevania in like 45 minutes
That's true. If you're decent at it. If you spent 60 on a game beating an hour, you'd be pissed the difficulty extends the life of the game
um
I mean if we go on a tangent separate to the video that argument itself
Have you guys played anything on the nest that was ridiculously difficult?
I I haven't played anything like castlevania
So I went back to play castlevania and I loved it
I really like castlevania on the nest such a strange connection I have with that game. Um
It's really fucking hard, but i'm good at it now quote unquote as in better than the average person but still terrible at it
but uh
Yeah, they definitely
Made it as difficult as they did to extend the life of the game because you can only fit so much on a nest cartridge
um
So when you pay x amount you still have some longevity. So what do you what?
What do you guys any comments on that as a sort of concept?
Well, you mean how much you pay and how much uh gratification you get from something is that what I spoke from
I mean, you know, I think this is fair, but it's like it depends on the design choices
But if for example
They made forward back and left right and vice versa to make it so you couldn't walk as fast or confusingly to extend the length
Of their game then they're of course sabotaging control in order to stretch the game. So that's not good, right?
We probably criticize that
But making it really difficult
Artificial difficulty. Is that the phrase? I suppose. Yeah. Um, yeah versus something like making an enemy that's uh
telegraphing its its abilities
But it's very difficult to account for you know, like the difference between an easy song and a hard song a guitar hero
I suppose I guess the uh, you know good example is like bullet sponge enemies
so
Where you spend an hour just whittling down the enemy's health and that's very boring
Whereas there might be other ways to work with your limitations to make a boss fight interesting
It's one of those well
I guess technically it's harder because i'm spending more time and the more time I spend here the more
Chance there is for me to fail because of you know, this war of attrition the game wants me to go through
The arguments against castlevania would be that the jump arc is fixed as in the second you jump
You can't change it midair and you have to accept wherever it's going to end up which can be really hard to deal with
uh the enemies
are
Reaching the line between complicated to avoid and spam like they spare
Fire so much at you at once that it's like almost like sometimes you'll be like, is there even a way to escape this?
so, um
I'd be interested to see what his arguments are but the the overall point of this comment is that
They're trying to say that his opinion is that the the artificial extension of the game
Is a piece of poor design and that's a fact as opposed to that's how I feel about it
I guess is what the point is and then the other guy said this video is asked
It went from presenting a personal opinion as a fact to being an ad for games
I haven't seen the video. So yeah, we'll have to um, maybe check it out in the context for that
You know one thing that's very interesting though is this whole i've never been told about the whole
He just thinks everything he says is factual until efap
Like that was never a thing anyone ever really said to me
Until I started doing the efaps with you. Well, yeah, you uh, you make it very clear in one of the earlier ones the whole
Objective opinion versus a subjective one and it's now been one of the most like longest running things we've had to explore encounter
Ever since the last jedi just dredged up every idiot on the internet
I think everyone wants clarity in media discussion. Thanks to the last jedi because it's just this shit everywhere in terms of
Like he said about the twitter thing
He was like who's right the guy saying it's good or the guy saying it's not good
And I think this video is going to argue that both of them are right or neither of them, right?
Well, we'd argue that somebody's right like it depends on their references
Maybe it's the way that you just present your arguments. Maybe that's on you
Sure, I need to quit presenting my opinion as fact I can accept differing viewpoints. In fact, I
Well, we're gonna have to read these as well
uh
But his approach to this subject was not the best one since a lot of the times he said some stuff as if they
Were facts when they were just his opinions. Have you played an s games lately?
They kind of suck
And that makes me doubt if his judgment and reviews for other games on the future
On the future are going to be as biased as this one was so there's no point for me to watch other videos
If I won't be able to trust those reviews
um
I think that's a fair argument if you said because this is the thing where I have a friend who won't play 2d games
Just at all and he stands by the position that
3d games are just better than 2d and i'm like
I don't know
So you don't know that's so wrong
You wouldn't want I will say this there's it's really tough for me to go and play some of these games
Because they're just a fucking drag. Well, that's the thing you'd I think you'd have reasoning beyond
I'm sure he had reasoning beyond uh
They're old
But what i'm saying is like some people go as far as saying like they are bad because they are and then state what they are
And it's like that's not
Good enough because you know, you know, however, if if that person then made a review of a 2d game i'd be like yeah
Yeah
I'd consider giving that a miss
I don't really want to hear why a 2d game is bad from the guy who thinks old 2d games suck compared to 3d games
um
He said that statement in particular is so lame though because it was totally tongue in cheek and they took it as really offensive
Okay, we don't really know what the statement is. Oh, the statement is have you played an s games lately? They kind of suck
Oh, I've never played an s game at all. So I don't know
I'll agree that I think for the most part. Well, I don't know about for the most part
I was gonna say you'd have to play them first and as someone I can't quantify it
But going back and playing like emulators and stuff some of these games are
Yeah, but some of them are really fun
There's there's nostalgia goggles, isn't there? Oh true
Well, this is the thing my first gaming console was the gamecube
So I went back just out of curiosity and I found I really like the original zelda and castlevania. I think they're awesome
however, they have their flaws and um
The idea that let's just say I was I was best friends with snowman gaming and he was like, yeah
Can you check my script and I said, oh don't say
Nest games suck
And if you said why i'd be like you're gonna need to present your argument first because people are gonna get pissed at that line
There are people out there who adore the nest era and they're not going to be interested the second you say that because it's
Think of it as me saying
You played pc games lately. They kind of suck pc games. I was like, what the fuck you talking about?
I know you'd be like, that's not the same like that's how they feel about that that generation though those people
How is it? How is it different?
I don't know. I I I assume that might have been an argument. I can't make that maybe
Molly that is eerie because my first console was a gamecube as well bionicle mask of light first game
my first game was
Oh, well, this is the thing it's not my it was my first
Console but I did have a game boy before that and I played all the pokemon
So I don't know if that that kind of counts as the original
Most of the gaming I did was at a friend's house since he had like almost every console ever
Yeah
And he said my theory is the video got picked up by the algorithm and people who love nest games started watching it
It's like yep, that would explain the dislikes assuming your arguments are solid. I don't I don't know. We don't know that
second video in a row you argue that being able to complete a game level quickly and
Efficiently is a good thing. That's literally subjective opinion
A subjective opinion I guess many people thrive from challenging sections in games and the videos you make them more
I think you're just bad at playing video games
Uh, yeah, that would I don't necessarily disagree with that comment
But I don't know that it counters anything you said specifically in your video
The idea that you complete a game quickly or slowly
I mean wolf and rags argued about this
with
What the fuck was a hellblade like it's uh, there's a lot to break down for what it might mean about a game
But i'm sure that's a that's a poor representation of what's in your video because I can't imagine you saying I completed it quickly
Therefore it was good
That's um a bit weird
I will say 100 of the nest videos weirded poorly needed another few drafts in the cooker. It led to misrepresentations. I see
Remember guys, what have we learned from efab be explicit because interpretation is everything about your dick and slap them with it that
And and many other things
Give them the all helicopter in my opinion as fact I can accept differing viewpoints
In fact, I encourage it. But what I can't stand are ones that assume I believe oh god
Why do they assume that what do you say? I it pours before
You said they assume what?
Um, we'll just back it up
I can't stand are ones that assume I believe i'm some sort of game design god that can't be questioned
um
From what i've seen
They want to question what you are stating to be a truth
Uh, because they believe that's something a human could do while you may not just like joseph anderson doesn't seem to
So it's a clash of world views in a way as in if I said
Lj is bad and someone was like no it's not and I go it's just like how I feel about it
Two different interpretations fighting each other immediately
You're in the vibe. This is this is like the joseph anderson video
Well, this is gotta leave myself that back door. This is the um, this video is created because of that video
Yeah, have a have a watch
But we should probably read these another thing I took issue with this video is you simply make the statement ness games are bad
Not only lumping together all the gems with the ship but stating it is a fact and treating it as one
I for one and likely tens of thousands of others quite enjoy the type of challenge presented by the old ness games
I really I just feel you could have worded it a lot differently. Well, yeah, there you go
Um, I think you probably agree with that
statement
Good and bad are subjective terms. It depends on what you're referring to particularly when it comes to entertainment
But the entire crux of your whole web series is completely flawed
Well, this is the funny thing this applied to just write and snow and gaming in there
They have good game design or bad writing good writing bad game design
But both just write and snow and gamer will likely say that it was always meant to be subjective
When they say those things, um
So it's interesting because there's there's people on the other side of the aisle that would be like
That's a definitive statement. You've just made so you better back it up sort of thing
Otherwise it would be invalid and then it's like well, it's just how I feel. Um
This video in particular depends on the idea that your opinion is what of what is bad is factually correct when honestly
It just means you don't like these aspects
There's nothing wrong with just liking ness games for whatever reason as growing up with them
I totally understand these games aren't for everyone but to pass yourself off as an expert on the subject
Now that is something that could be quantified. Did you say anything like you being an expert on the subject?
Based solely on your own opinion strikes me as fairly biased like that's a weird thing to say if he didn't actually say it, you know
Yeah, I don't know
Yeah, we'll roll it back and keep on going
That assume I believe i'm some sort of game design god that can't be questioned
I have never once ever claimed to be an authority figure in game design game creation or development
Insights i'm just like most people on this platform a dude with some opinions who simply decided to make videos about them
In fact in some ways I sort of pride myself on making relatively simple videos on the topic as a sort of
element interesting
um
I was gonna say it's a humble take because like would we say that about ourselves?
I'd be like, I guess it would be stupid if I said I just make simple videos for
People to watch because yeah, mine requires that you really do care about the source to be watching all of it
I don't think my fallout review is simple. But yeah
I'd say all four of us here and snow my game would probably be like, yeah, I don't think any of us have claimed to be
an authority in any way about uh
A position again coming back to the hole. Why would we I don't know a scenario professor tosspot
Have you used your professiveness as an example of you being an authority?
Uh, not outright. I think just people you know, they they see me they see i'm a good-looking guy and they go, you know
Guys, he's a handsome motherfucker. And fuck
He's a professor he's he's british he must be doing something right. Look how big his house is
Look at the library. Look at all those books. He has he's clearly very learned also
Just to clarify if someone told you they were a gaming expert. What do you think that would mean?
I
Their fingers are covered in cheeto dust
Hey
I would assume that they just thought they were really good at playing video games
I would assume they may have developed some because how could you be?
I don't know man. I think you'd have to yeah, I think that's me maybe a game developer
But then then that gets into the weird territory of being an authority on something. It's like
And I think i've spoken to you to to more about this. Well, it's
Uh for me I sometimes
And this isn't a standard but I find it can sometimes help when a film reviewer has actually maybe
had experience of making films because they
Kind of have an insight into the actual business and how hard it is to make a film because making films is really fucking hard
So much can go wrong and it's a shame when some a film does go wrong because so many things go into it
You know, it's not just uh, camera work and music and lights. There's sets. There's so many little intricacies
um, which is why I was kind of
Dumbfounded that some people you know when red letter media made a space cop and they're like, oh it's purposely bad
And people panned it and a lot of people lost respect for red letter media because they said oh, well you go on about
What makes films good and bad and here you are you've made a bad film
Surely if you if you're if you're these experts on what makes a good film you can make a good film
And I actually and I disagree with that. I thought you know what? Yeah, they intended to make
Another one film in uganda
They are they wanted. Well, this is the thing what I what I will say
Encounted to that slightly is that I would love to see them give a really hard shot of making a good film
What they considered to be a good because I understand space cop was almost a celebration of b-movies in a way
Yeah, yeah, they had a lot of like references to b-movies that they had watched
Yeah, like they i'm pretty sure they've decided they don't want to make another one ever again because of the struggle of getting space
Completed exactly. I'd love to see them
Do a full-on movie you make it nice and simple even just have a great script
In the past, but they've never had the the big budget so anything like that
They're pretty much some of their older stuff is very uh student film-like
um
but I
my point is I don't think they have to hand in their reviewing credentials because
They made a movie that was not well received to flip it
Right to flip it some people who make movies
Might not be able to criticize movies very effectively
Yeah, yeah, like they're two very different fields. Uh, you could do both obviously you could maybe not do either
I don't know but it's interesting and it's good to get an insight into both from both angles. I suppose
Yeah, but I think in terms of
Authority levels. I think maybe you could argue
You have a little bit more insight because you've worked in film. I think that can help
I agree with you. It's just that where would it come in in the video?
You know, do you stop the view of a going you should listen to me because I make films you'd be like
Just make your arguments. You don't need to say that exactly. Yeah. Yeah
I sort of pride myself on making relatively simple videos on the topic as a sort of elementary introduction for those getting interested
Sorry, I can't play the watch together. Did it in game design for the first?
No, it's stuck here. Let me reload. Okay
Um
Yeah, i've always thought that mark brown was was what he's just talked about the whole entry level
Uh game design sort of discussion, but I guess mark brown doesn't cover everything. So why not do have an extra guy doing it?
uh, why
Is it uh working for you now?
fun making relatively
Excellent simple videos on the topic as a sort of elementary introduction for those getting interested in game design for the first time
Now that doesn't mean that I can't improve either though
I've already learned so much and done countless research since starting this channel
But for the record, I have never made a video game professionally and have not worked in the industry
Though I have made smaller projects for fun if that makes you want to no longer watch my videos. Hey, it's been fun
But again, i've literally like I don't it. I don't care where you come from what you've done
I'm just interested in seeing what you say and how you support it. That's all I care about
It's just never ever once mattered to me ever
It's the thing man, like people say it as a joke
It's like well, you wouldn't want to watch a film review from a guy who's literally seen zero films
So I'd be like, I don't know we watch jay's videos. That'd be interesting
I think it would be yes. We're watching this one. Just just find like a hermit
Get a hermit out of a peruvian cave
I mean, wouldn't it be amazing because they might they might be like jesus christ. What was that? What was that?
Was that real?
Yeah, so he said he's just setting the record straight for anybody who thinks that
You ever said he was an expert which yeah that goes the same for all of us. By the way, we're not
Experts on the subject. We just like to talk about them. What if you were once a pert, but now you're not anymore
a once a what
A pert. What does that stand for? What? I don't know. But if you used to be a pert and now you're not anymore
Well, how would he know if we don't know what that means? It doesn't it doesn't matter. You don't know what it means to be a thing
but
Yeah, you do
No, you don't rags throwing the curveballs, but
How can he I mean
I can't say i'm a gamer if I literally have no concept rags rags has played us
I actually didn't catch that at all expert if you were you recently
Well played what's it like to get
Fucking dunked on
It's racist dude wolfs not even human
Hey, what does it feel like to almost get your ass kicked by a by wolf bot 2000?
What way are you saying that? I don't know. You should have brought that in wolf because he did beat the bot
First off I finished the game only only by just barely I was seeing you getting like angry about it
Yeah, because the bot is a fucking cheating prick because the bot literally has the capacity to alter the rags code on the fly
It's a robot. Oh, how do you use the sky net? They're just a bunch of robots if I if I left
Beforehand that bot would have definitely wrecked. Are you saying how come you can't be faster than a tool assistant speedrun?
Is that what you're saying
Also, did you just like did you just say that if you had left earlier the wolf bot would have won
Are you saying like with less of your input?
Your surrogate would have beaten us
probably yes
You know that the robot changed the rules I had all the goblins
And then the game just said nope, we're gonna keep going because fuck you
He didn't change the rules you just suck at the game no he changed the rules I got the last goblin
Well, if you can't say so what sucks in the game
It's wrong. Hey if you if I had left like 15 minutes earlier wolf bot would have won
I'm just saying
You would have lost to a computer weren't you?
No, that's what's so amazing is that you were doing so terribly and then the robot took over and then
Hey, I designed that robot to be better than me. Maybe you should have spent all that time practicing
If that was your intent wolf you nailed it on a game that i've never played before
It's all for positivity. I didn't play it. I I didn't played it before either, but I beat the robot
Yeah, well the robot almost beat you and that robot lost to us
Just fuck already. Just get it out your system. Just hate fuck each other. Jesus Christ
You say that as if they haven't already made smaller projects
I have never made a video game professionally and have not worked in the industry though
I have made smaller projects for fun. If that makes you want to no longer watch my videos
Hey, it's been fun. But again, we'll keep watching it and i've I can't imagine anybody
Cough a video because of that
Maybe maybe law maybe law of averages because so many people are out there
But there's probably an idiot out there who's like this guy doesn't design games regularly. I'm not watching
I watch patrick williams because he's an expert on film. He's made his own movies
Watch my videos. Hey, it's been fun
But again, i've never claimed as such and any video i've ever made has been from the perspective of a player who wants to talk
About his experiences nothing more. So please this is something everyone needs to be reminded. You can say that but
This reminds me of the whole like everything I just i'm about to say is subjective
And then the following statement is this game is bad and that is a fact
Then I end it with that was all subjective
Just
Qualify the things you say I wonder if that applies to every statement he's ever made but maybe
Top's for years now say it with me a creator's opinion
Off with that annoying voice thing people do
What's the point? What's the point of the megaphone if it's not going to be loud? It's an artistic choice
It's like when people are yelling, but they're actually whispering at you and you're like, why don't you just talk normally to me?
I find this uh statement more agreeable than Joseph Anderson's
but it's still kind of
A creator's opinion is applied. I don't even
A creator's opinion is implied to be a creator's opinion. Is that is that I mean really
That's a no-shit statement. But the problem that I think the video is trying to say that I guess
I think what the issue here is that he probably just made a video with really badly presented arguments
And he just can't get over that
a lot of people in the comments seem to be
under
serious mis, uh
Misapprehension of what's being said in the eyes being in the ideas. Well, this is the thing
I went over this in the tfa thing
It's like this seems to me like an example of someone being like blah blah doobly-doo. Oh shit. I made a few mistakes
People are calling me out on it. You realize it's all subjective right shield up. I mean i'll say right now
I still think I still think i'm absolutely correct
Um a quiet place being an awful movie, but I would agree with you more. I will more than
Happily concede the point that I could have presented my arguments in a much better way
Sure. I think that happens to all of us. This is the thing. Um, it's as I said in the video is less about
Uh being right and wrong. It's how you respond once you've been made aware of it
If you were aware of it all along then you're just piece of shit because that means you just lied but
If you weren't aware and you were like, oh fuck I made a mistake my bad
And then you make a follow-up video being like, okay
Yeah, so this this is this this is this this is this it's just like yeah, there's no problem
um
I think this whole topic is a learning experience without a doubt creators still do have some responsibility to qualify their views
But yeah, it should be a no brainer here. All right
We'll we'll keep going
Hmm did you hear what I had some screaming. Oh, she'll be fine. Don't worry about it
Oh
Bragg's got a fee dude. Jesus
Oh, i'm i'm giving her something bragg's again. We talked about this not on efap dude anytime offline
You gotta at least shut her up when we're doing a show. Mm-hmm. Just to respect that
Yeah, you're not paying us to talk bragg's like all right get so we could hear like chain sounds
Oh christ
The changer implied the change of subjective there's no such thing as objective opinion if I okay, so
Did you guys hear that?
Go back. What do you think about it? All right, let's let's let's play it again. Sorry
The more you think about it this should be obvious there's no such thing as objective. Yeah, there is if I so
Snowman gaming this is this is the divide. We've discovered as
approaching things on efap
Objective opinion is almost like a yes or no question. Does it exist?
Since me wolf and rags have been clear on this subject. Why don't you explore it voxis?
What is well, is there such a thing and if there was what would it be for objective opinion?
Oh, there's a tricky one because then you obviously get into the the realm of semantics aren't you
Hmm objective opinion. Yeah
Here's like an oxymoron because obviously you're saying there it's you know, opinion is always going to subjective objective opinion. Is it?
It's my objective opinion that pineapple does not
um
so
It depends on the context doesn't well go for it. Just just just for clarification
This could help with people in the audience as well. Um without looking it up. What would you give as a definition of opinion?
Just just go for it
Your your subjective thoughts on something that
You've developed from your personal perspective
And if that were the definition of opinion objective opinion would be an oxymoron
I would agree with you. Um, but as far as I know and I work from
Commonly accepted I guess or you you could call it. I can't remember which dictionary it's from or which standards or whatever
Opinion is a view or judgment and a viewer judgment can be a lot of things
Uh, so if I expressed to voxis that the sun is bright today
That would be relative and subjective because bright is a matter of what is taking it in as a visit
However, if I said the sun was a star today
It is the sun is a star and you said that's subjective because it's your opinion
Uh, the counter that josephannison would levy is that well now molar stating a fact
Um while i'd be like no, it's still an opinion because it's a viewpoint. It's a it's a judgment i've just made
Um based on information that i've collected and it's yeah
I mean there's people who like in their opinion genuinely believe the earth is flat
That doesn't make their opinion right, but if someone says in my opinion the earth is
Their opinion is right objectively. Oh, you're gonna piss off the flat earthers in chat
The flat earthers are subhuman they're worse than eric no actually
He's the ball in the battle for you that you can use of like an objective opinion
Is it is my opinion that no bachelors are married?
Yeah, yeah by definition by definition this is like no a bachelor cannot be married
All right. So if we've moved on from there, uh snowman game and just said, okay, but uh good and bad would be subjective terms now
When this is this is obviously up for everybody because good and bad have I believe seven definitions that are used currently in
In you can check which dictionary but you'll have many
The one I use when i'm referring to media is usually the craft is responsible
It corresponds to as in
Tlj
Uh is objectively bad will usually reference its writing. Uh, i'll often try and clarify by saying
Objectively poor editing or objectively poor. Let's just go with writing for simplicity's sake
Um, and then you'd be like, okay
So what would it mean to be objective about the craft of writing?
I I went over this in the um in the podcast I had with with foxes previously on uh with with
cynical cj as well the um
Good and bad meaning, uh
To a high standard or a low standard in the craft
However, someone could respond. No good and bad means enjoyable or not enjoyable and I would be like
Yeah, that's another way to use that word
That's not the way i'm using it and as long as you're clear
um
well
You can understand why there's these these arguments online because all these levels of interpretation you can have sometimes
You have to spend a really long time explaining and then you end up with 15 hour videos
Yeah, exactly and with something like art as well
uh that then it gets all kinds of nebulous and confusing because
art
especially with film because
You can look at film from the writing standpoint and you can put it from the the editing standpoint as well
Saugath said the earth is just a weird grape. Don't you start with me? It is true
It really just comes down a grape isn't a sphere
I know it's an oblate spheroid much like how the earth is an oblate spheroid
The earth is not the same as a grave. Don't don't start this. Oh, yeah, it's a weird one
More like get the tranquilizer gun with you
Mallory we're just brave rabbit animals
So when it comes to if you're starting a discussion and you're talking about topics where you can't agree on definitions one thing to do
Is to say, okay
Since we can't agree on this word
Let's let's agree to not even use this word and each of us will come up with our own
alternative way to define the concept because a lot of the times one of the
One of the issues is that people often confuse the map for the place
Words are descriptions of or descriptions of concepts essentially, right?
um
So if you're getting hung up on the word then just say okay
Let's not use this word
Each of us will use our own word for the concept that we mean and then we won't be talking past each other
With some shared bit of
He was like the videos themselves
Wouldn't be much problem with them
It's just at that point like so it is semantics then
No as if eric cares about consistency
So he forgot he couldn't even stay by however
The problem arises when you make a statement in a video that says you can't have an objective opinion
Because now you've you've just said something that's inherently objective as in
Us lot here
Wouldn't be right in in our take just now even though you seem agreeable with it from what i've seen in the chat
um
So it'll just like nest games a fucking shit or whatever statement that may be a joke or not
It's like there's not breathing room
Sometimes yeah, some people think they take things way too at face value
And it's almost
I wish more
Children would talk critical thinking at school sometimes. Oh, yeah, you know, just just take a step back
Don't get too emotive just by someone making a statement saying this sucks and then suddenly go
I'm gonna tell him and you ask it. So take a step back and take in what they're saying. Is it a joke?
Is it satire?
you know
Analyze take a step back rather than this kind of knee-jerk reaction
To a statement that and that seems to be a prevalent thing on the internet nowadays
Like some people on facebook, they just see the the headlines of a news article and they mean oh bacon
It gives you cancer. I just saw the headline and they don't stop to they always have that the initial
Emotive response rather than going no more bacon then the whole thing
Yeah, um
Uh black colligula said the examples you gave about objective opinion the sun is a star consider it a fact
Uh, I would consider that a fact is an objective opinion really a fact
um
The the response that would be it could be because a fact is defined differently to an opinion
or an objective opinion
An objective opinion would be the example we usually use to try and clarify this for people would be that if you have a thermometer
And rags asked me what the temperature is right now. I tell him the temperature is 30 degrees
Or whatever depends where you put the thermometer doesn't it? And uh, well, no the what I just said was
What I just said was an objective opinion and then someone could be like well
It's just a fact and then it turns out the thermometer was broken and I didn't know that
So what I just said was still objective and it was still my opinion
But it was based on faulty information thus being inaccurate
But it was still objective because I had no investment emotionally into whether or not that information was received or translated
I literally just read it off the thermometer. Yes. It's an objective opinion because it wasn't determined by how you felt or some
Subjective bias information that you could measure unless you want to argue that my eyes
Are an inherent subjective bias on my brain because i'm human at that point. You just we're getting into epistemology
Yeah, but then you get metaphysical don't you think I think therefore I am
What is real perception and I think I think that's why we sometimes you just have to go
Who gives a fuck? I'm trying to review something. We're ejecting from the conversation
Where people do that when you have to like if you ever have to stop and ask, but what is real and then?
You need to stop you need to stop
Yeah, because then you're just going on tangents. We need to come off as a bit of a pseudo intellectual wanker
Uncom, uncompetitive said it was an unemotional opinion
Um, you realize what objective means? I don't know
That's just we get into semantics again. That's that seems to be the only real issue. It seems like you understand what we're saying
Someone said eyes are subjective. Okay, jaden smith
Oh jaden and your how can mirrors be real if our eyes aren't real so
Uh, what color is subjective
Do you think jaden's like secretly a genius and just nobody is on the evolved level of intellectual
No, because he's not the next Socrates
He don't have to be a good actor to be an intellectual jaden smith is like
He's the Socrates of our time. No, he's Socrates if Socrates was deprived oxygen at birth
Hey, amos repeatedly dropped on his head check. Come on. Hashtag. Jaden is god. No
Just to clarify though if you guys click that and then go down to number five
Do you want to read that rags? Just so that hopefully this will be the um, this is from dictionary. I'll just post it in the chat
number five
number five
the let's see the definition of objective, um
Five not influenced by personal feelings interpretations or prejudice based on facts unbiased and then
the example
Some people have called the example is an objective opinion
So they know this is not opinion. It's like an english phrase
What i'm suggesting is we didn't make this up
We didn't we didn't come up with ourselves, which is something that a lot of people accuse us of they're like
This is just your metrics. Like no, we got this from learning about things and I know that same people everyone else did too
um
But like the other thing is that um
If you try out the whole everything is subjective or all opinions are subjective and facts are object
I think like you get loser contradictions that stop popping up
Um in terms of how you can actually break things down and I don't know the the goal is clarity with language and communication, right?
Trying to get our ideas across to each other as quickly as possible
Yeah, how do how do you explain the same concept to somebody else?
How do you get the thoughts in your brain to go into someone else's brain?
Yeah, um, but yeah, funnily enough. I believe josephannison used of uh dictionary.com
For his definition of opinion and then someone shot this at him from the same website and
Uh, I could be wrong on this but from what I remember he was like, that's clearly something they need to update or something
They need to change
My god, someone said, uh, someone said jaden loke
Jaden
Anyway, let's kick on
Get on it. There's no such thing as objective opinion if I say in my video title that something has bad game design
That's my personal view. I'll tell you it might not be though
Yeah, does he not think that there are
objectively bad game designs
um
Well, the hitbox is one will just be the easiest to example just a hitbox
That doesn't match the model whatsoever. So a player couldn't possibly interpret where the damage space even is
Thus being completely antithetical to the purpose of it in terms of a piece of game design
Like would that would that be based on personal opinion or would that be something you consider objective?
I don't know if he's still in the chat, but
We shall see I think he's melted
Oh god, it's 30 degrees in here according to the moment my personal view
Someone said actually in the chat. Um, well, don't forget that maulers thermometer is probably working in my video
While rags would be working off Fahrenheit. That doesn't actually matter if we were in the same room. It wouldn't matter at all
Yeah, it wouldn't matter actually we we could both hold this different thermometers that were in our respective measurements for heat
And we could both say oh, it's such as six celsius and i'd say such as such fahrenheit
We'd still both be yeah, they'd be the same value
Ultimately, it's just that one is more correct. That's the american version
You guys came after us. So no there's no Fahrenheit is better
Fahrenheit's better for temperature
But I like uh for distance. I like metric like even which is so weird
I've played so many video games that in real life
I describe distances in meters because I feel i'm more accurate describing things in meters. I do put my gps in kilometers
Rather than miles and you've betrayed
I don't know. I like it when the australian guys
Drive 70 000 kilometers or something
Oh fahrenheit came first. I didn't say fahrenheit came first or second. I said britain came first. That's why we're better than america
Such thing is objective opinion if I say in my video title that something has bad games on a grape, but you mean earth
Yeah, if she can fit it
Who can't these days earth is nice and you leave lizzie alone. Yes queen swallows earth explodes
Wait earth explodes or she does
She explodes because if earth exploded, how do they get this uh this piece of news out there if earth explodes then technically she would as well
Earth is just european. She could survive. She could be in an astronaut if leia can survive in space. Yeah
You're saying the queen doesn't have the force. What I walked into
Crack pipes must be hot to the touch. Welcome to hell
We're getting there we're getting there
The more you think about it, this should be obvious
There's no such thing as objective opinion if I say in my video title that something has bad game design
That's my personal view i'll talk about why I think that and hopefully share some valid reasons as to why
But I will never claim that ever why do you have so little?
Faith does he why do you have so little confidence in your opinions that you don't think everyone should agree
When he says valid reasons, does he mean objective reasons? I don't know, but he did that before he said he said valid opinion earlier on
Like what do you mean a valid opinion? I wonder what valid means in the context something that is supported versus something that's not maybe I don't know
But then I think everyone should
Have my share my opinions. Wow. I think they're the better. I think they're the better opinions. That's why I have them
I mean funnily enough rags that makes sense, but I don't think people would interpret it that way
They would be like rags thinks he has the he's the smartest guy ever
I think I have the right opinions. That's why I have them. Yes, that's gonna say this is a fundamental about
human nature almost but uh, yeah
If you're espousing a position you will have generated that position based on what you consider to be the accurate position
Hopefully based on something but you might maybe one day someone reveals to you that someone goes
Hey, your thing is based on faulty information
You go. Oh my god, and you put your hands on your head. Like what have I done?
Who am I that sort of thing? I think I think people confuse that. I think my position is correct
My position cannot be wrong. I was gonna say just just to experiment for you guys
Do you think that the positions you hold are wrong?
No, like no because you wouldn't hold them. Yeah, because if I if you answered that affirmatively that you've got some
Incredible cognitive dissonance going on in your
We have to deal with what a person we have really low self-esteem
He said support by evidence so I guess he he would say validity is determined by the evidence would probably be what he means
Oh, I think that and hopefully we share some so you can have objective opinions
I don't think he defined it that way. That's the difference. You have a straight there mauler
Well, this is the thing man. It gets complicated because he's gonna say the same thing as joseph anderson where they're like
You'll have objective evidence and then you'll have the subjective
Opinion on top of that and then they'll separate them. They'll draw the line differently to how we draw it
Soy milk is good for you. No, jay
jay, no
I think it was the part two of um, I hope you drown in silk
Drown in silk
Yeah, soy milk. That's what that's what it is. That's what soy milk is. It's so right silk is another thing
Silk is a different thing rags
soy milk
No, fake milk rags stop. No, i'm i'm serious like you could go to the store and you could buy silk
No, it wouldn't. I am literally going to send you a picture right now because okay
Well, he's talking about a brand called silk
You live in the american south and everything down there is wrong
Silk look at that
target in sam's club
target
crow here what i've beat a cost
cost
Code about five feet cost
Dot com
Silk it's rated very highly and I think oh dear because it's exploding about soy milk
Soy, it was eight those those rags like soy milk. Yes, I do
Question answered you can keep that one for free and smoke it to the bank. So let's continue
That's my personal view i'll talk about why I think that and hopefully share some valid reasons as to why but I will never
Claim that everyone should agree with me. And why is this so important?
Because I don't want to say in my opinion before every sentence that
Don't just make good arguments
Why do you why is this a thing that people say?
I don't want to have to say in my opinion
You don't need to say it at all. There's never even a time where it's needed to be said in any scenario
I think I've said it like once or twice ever
I said it once in the tfa video for the meme
Yeah, I don't think I'm not sure if I have
Just make good arguments if you're not capable of making good arguments, there's your problem. Honestly, it's almost slang like it's used
Irrelevantly because the content of what you said will define whether or not it was whether or not it was an opinion
objective subjective fact statement view judgment all these things they're not determined by you giving them the label like if I said
Brags cows can be milked and I just gave you an assessment of the technical details of a nuclear submarine
You'd be like that's not what you did and i'm like, okay, but that's what I said. I did so
You know, it's irrelevant. We already know what you did based on what you said
He said based on the comments saying I present opinion as fact
I felt it needed to be so the problem isn't going to be solved by you saying and that's my opinion at the end
If you said nest games suck
Because people are going to be like, no, they don't go. Yeah, it's just my opinion. It's like well your opinion sucks
Yeah, there you just created a different kind of
Issue you haven't removed the issue
This is all you have to do is you need to just make a good argument
Yeah, just justify the things that you said you don't need to put the opinion shit on the end
And I understand because this is being said by so many different content creators like man. It's redundant
You don't have to put in in my opinion the beginning of every sentence. It's like you don't
Like who?
Why would you need to what like nobody ever accused me of any of this stuff before I was on efap and everyone got on
Got all testy everything like years of making videos and this just wasn't a thing that really
Ever popped up for me. Yeah, i'm seeing a lot of
arguments objective subjective in my opinion
No, I don't want to say like I said efap has killed my my interest in using the phrase in my opinion like
I like has erased from any script that had ever been to be it. But like I said, it'll only ever be there unnecessarily
I'll look at it. I'll say I think I believe
maybe
But again, it all depends on context and how do you set up?
How little confidence do you have in your writing ability if you feel like the only way to do it is they I have to put
The words in my opinion every sentence just a matter of examples, right?
So if I am telling you I don't like dark souls 2
I don't need to put in my opinion on the before or after that that's very self-evident what I just said
I don't like it
The rags and wolf and box this year can be like he doesn't like it
That doesn't tell us anything about whether or not it's good
But if I tell you the hitbox is a fucking terrible and I show you 50 examples
I don't need to put in my opinion on the end of that either because what I just did was objective
It was like it doesn't matter what my commentary was you saw the evidence
He says it's like people haven't seen an essay before. I mean you make your point and you give your
Examples your evidence explain you expand upon it
He says um
He says if they simply don't agree that's totally different from this guy needs to stop presenting their opinion as fact
That's the main issue. I have so well then ignore it. I was gonna say neither ignore it if it's if it's bullshit
It's or if it's true make better arguments or ignore it. I mean this this video is dumb, dude
I'm, sorry to tell you it's a terrible video
Maybe you should get mr. Frosty on I was gonna say let's try and finish the video so he can come on if he wants
just to make sure
Let's try and run through the rest everyone should agree with me
And why is this so important because I don't want to say in my opinion before every sentence
That's why I guess just just quick pause. I would say for this video. I don't like it more than I dislike
You don't like it more than you dislike it
Yes, okay, not only would that be so oh he's at work he can't well, we'll just have to keep going with the format
We go. I guess hang on you're at work and you're typing. You're not a very productive worker. Are you hey, man?
What if his work is pedaling? What work do you do if you're like an er surgeon? I'm gonna be
They took the piss in my video hold on and they may be on life support but fuck it
He's gonna phone out while he's doing surgery
These awful liberals who think that they can just watch efap while they're working
How are we supposed to know?
Salted on the internet
Then we'll get on if they have jobs
He said the truth is you can't please it please everyone in my dk64 video. I prefaced
It with an in my opinion thing and half the comments were pissed. I had to say it
The other half was still pissed at my opinions
Well, doesn't that mean this the
The latter half were not satisfied by the in my opinion part, even though you used it
Well the former half were pissed that you used it anyway, so wouldn't that be evidence that you just shouldn't use it at all?
What is your job snowman? I want to know also isn't this video about how you don't need to say it
Like you're making the argument that you shouldn't say it someone said he's a subjective surgeon
Um, madam subjective this man's gonna die I think maybe
Anyway, let's let's kick on sentence. That's why not only would that be so boring to watch and terrible writing but
It would be boring and terrible. It's like who advocates for that kind of writing. Oh, yeah. I mean good
Making up
Well, they don't do the whole in my opinion the beginning of every set i'm not saying i'm not saying snowman stupid
He just he's he's doing a thing that i've only seen stupid people do
Wow
Well go on efap while at work
You boxes a record of what you're doing to watch and see you at the job center
Hello, he said he made that long before he made this one. Okay, but I would hope
You're an actor
Sorry, sorry that tickled me. Well done ben master. I can't come
I'm coming somewhere
All right
But I would hope that you're intuitive enough to discern that on your own see okay
So you're intuitive enough to discern that on your own
What if I told you doc souls 2 is a bad game because of the hitboxes and because man, I just find it so boring
What have I just given you in that selection?
Any three of you can you have what what you have said you said two things one of them I would say is more
Able to be justified than the other
Well, the other is purely subjective and if I put in my opinion on the end of all of that
We would just be like redundant because it'd be like, okay
But uh, yeah
So if someone listened to it
They'd be like wait you said something that could be quantified and then you said how you felt and then you said that the game
Is bad as a result of these two things
so
It's so confusing and this is the thing a lot of people may not think about this and I know a lot of people will consider
Us assholes for even putting it out there
But like writing is hard and being definitively careful about what words you use to describe what you're actually trying to say
Instead of conflating combining and what the whole premise of my tfa video is the combination of the subjective and the objective
and I know that that's um
Something that might be many people be like you can't even do that when it's just your opinion on media
But obviously with what we've talked about already
That sentence I just gave you like that's tonight
That's the example I would give and I would avoid that like the plague if I was trying to describe to you why
The opening scene with tekka and kylo and po in tfa doesn't work and my notes were it's boring. It's annoying. It's repetitive
It's stupid. It's ugly. I'd be like, yeah, all of these don't work
I need to describe what all these even mean where they come from why I'm why i'm saying them
Because otherwise the snowman says i'd say hey, that's your opinion. I agree too cool
Even if I disagree i'd be like cool. That's fine bottom line. I wish people would chill out. Is that a pun mr
Snowman, I get it. It's a really crappy one
Then then that's another subject. It's like how angry should someone be about what you've said in a video?
What is the correct response in terms of feeling? And let me just give you a few examples like
Your video you're you're a you're a person who has billions of subscribers. You make a video saying um
The new god of war is fucking terrible worst thing ever and you show very nitpicked or cherry pick
sorry examples of where the game fails and you say this represents the entire thing and the
Most people once they finished it say that it's actually quite bad
Any positive reviews you see are all from people who've only played like an hour, which is the best part
They they front loaded all the good content just to trick people into buying it if you said all of this
Then the creator saw it
I knew it was bullshit because of all the things you you cite things that aren't even in the game or just complete lies
Or whatever else you say like progression in the game doesn't exist
You can't even buy upgrades or change your whatever just things that are just blatant lies. Would it be fair for him to be furious?
Because I think it would be and then you'd be like, okay
But why does random people get furious then I'd be like, well, what if they're passionately invested in this game?
Like it helped them and i'm not being hyperbolic here. There's videos out there
You can go find where people say a video game saved their life
Like uh, i've got those emails every once in a while. I was depressed. I thought about killing myself
Yeah, and you laugh
Some people will send you death threats if you yeah, you get you get the whole
So take that guy who?
God of war saved his life and he sees your review and he knows it's bullshit and it's misrepresenting the very thing that means
So much to him they get furious like okay, that's fair
But the general amount of people why are they so angry and it's like they all have their reasons, man
Some of them are unreasonable. Some are reasonable
Ultimately, you're trying to solve the symptom instead of the uh, the problem
Being that the language that was presented probably
You know
Set them the wrong way or the inaccuracy of video or whatever else and maybe i'm being wishful thinking and and
As if a video could ever be so well accurate that it wouldn't piss off anybody
But of course, it'll always piss off somebody. I agree with that
It's just that um, you'll find that the videos that piss people off the most so
What are the most disliked videos on youtube?
Um, youtube rewind would be the top example. Um
You can go into it's more than just
uh
I don't know
There's a lot of things that'll happen behind the scenes or things that happen in the video that you can find
Oh, that's what pissed him off. Like um, when movie bob did his diablo immortal video
It was like what does he say in this video that gave it all the dislikes? Then you find the part where he says, um
Uh people should be happy that other people are getting
Something instead of like people are getting angry that other people are getting stuff and he refers to like diablo immortal can be for like
female gamers or casual gamers
And the diablo fans are angry that someone else is getting their thing
And it's like that statement is enough to understand exactly why all the dislikes are there now or why all the criticism is
That movie bob's a fucking idiot. Um
I mean matt pat the nes one of his he made a diablo immortal video
Like a gamer's just title, but you did you guys see um yachtsi's video on fallout 76?
No, no, you you really should because in the first like minute or so he talks about
Briefly the diablo immortal stuff in the fallout 76 and the the the kickback that these games have been getting
Um kind of he's kind of bashing the industry and people who defend the industry when they do stuff like this
But a very good example of that
Go watch yachtsi's
Unfortunate here's the unfortunate part
In order to get to yachtsi's content on youtube, you have to brush past movie bobs garbage
Because they are on the same channel. That's true. So be careful
And don't click on the wrong video. So knighthood said do you find games to be harder to objectively review than movies?
I speaking of a spoon. I assume that means the answer is yes, but not
through some form of like
impossibility of informational
Extraction it's just that games
Typically have more in them. There's more aspects to cover
um games also have
as a fundamental part of their design
kind of like um
Almost like a wild card in terms of the individual player who's
Going through it. Yeah, there's loads to really address
It's a little messy element whereas a movie will always be the same no matter what
Game isn't quite like that. It does require input from an individual
It's a little mess here. Yeah, he said he's heading home and he'll be back in 30 minutes and he can probably talk to us
so
Let's try and make this last 30 minutes
Can we can we do it?
It's been an hour and a half and we've we basically should probably hurry that we've lost 800 viewers
I think it's a bit too long. I mean it's up to them what they want. I i'm interested in giving
To see totaled loke that's probably true actually
But yeah, I want him to have a chance to come on if he wants to though
So it would be it would make more sense if we were on this video as opposed to jumping to the next one
If you know what I mean, do you think he would defend tonaled? I don't think he would know him or
I feel like the different crowds
Totaled loke is in the uh, yeah, what if tonaled is the thing that gets him to believe in objectivity?
No, like we we show it to him he's like, all right, i'm with you guys completely the light of tonaled
Um, but yeah, let's let's see how because he's about to bring in joseph anderson. I think or at least reference him critique youtuber
They would agree with the sentiment 100 percent
In fact, joseph anderson made a very similar video a little while ago, and it's very very good. Please
Hey, if you like his videos you should read his books
Yeah, like interstellar marines
Look
It's uh, if you're watching this
Yeah, you know just uh, just go just go read the amazon snippet of interstellar marines. Oh, I i'm sure you'll love it
Um, yeah, I read it out loud. Um a previous stream. Yeah. Yeah cj was telling me. Uh, oh it was beautiful
Yeah
But this is the thing
Um, joseph anderson's video was really bad. It had loads of really bad arguments to support his idea
Which was very very simple, which is I define these words these way leave me alone
But it didn't even apply to his videos because i've been watching joseph anderson for a long time and he's made so many objective arguments
um
Unlike made definitive statements and then he's just crawling back to the whole this is objective leave me alone
So was not a hard day. Leave me alone
You have a very strange relationship don't you he doesn't um, he doesn't he refuses to speak to me because I used
the m word massive
Um, the what I called him massive faggot. I think the use of the word massive really uh offended size shaming
Yeah
Because there are a lot of small people out there who would like to be massive
And there are a lot of massive people out there who don't like being massive and so saying that could be very offensive
You can't judge a faggot by their size
Yeah, so, you know, i've learned a lot from that but um, you know
No chance of joseph coming on but it would be interesting. Do you think you'll ever be able to?
Mend that I don't think it matters what I do at this point besides he
interpreted what I said as me trying to pull back my apology
when um
That opens up a whole interesting conversation about
What it means to apologize in what context as in what what so uh voxis if I
If I opened a door and it hit you in the back because I didn't realize you were standing out there
Uh, and I said, sorry, would I be apologizing to you because I opened a door or would I be apologizing to you?
For the result of me having opened the door without knowing you were there
Uh, I think if I get too caught up in that I think we should slam the door repeatedly on me
By getting cunt cunt cunt
the point being uh
He was like stupid. It's stupid to get it
I know i'm just i'm just letting you i'm letting you know
For the benefit of joseph fannison what his actual perspective was was that I should apologize for using the word
And I was like, no i'm apologizing for how it hurt you
But i'm not apologizing for using the word because I have my own philosophy of how i'm allowed to use that word
I don't care if you you have the opposite
I I like it's one of my favorite words. I like the way it rolls off the tongue. Oh, yes, beautiful
And and the argument that it upsets homosexual people is just not it doesn't hold any way especially not on this podcast
um
for reasons such as
uh, um, I mean
Some people here like both the biobes and the peen i'm just putting it out there
Okay, you like both nothing wrong with that?
I like both and these people these nameless people also happen to use that word which almost presents a sort of
strange conundrum if they're supposed to be offended by it sometimes we use the word to describe ourselves
I did that and people got upset
On one of my videos. I was like, wait what?
I literally call myself a faggot and my follower
Yeah
Another thing is in I call myself that and use it endearingly. Yeah, you can
Uh, no, I mean i'm just being a faggot
But in america it can be a bit old because we use fag for cigarette
So when you go to america you go i'm gonna go smoke a fags the american be like, oh my god
You're gonna shoot a gay guy
Yeah, what no no i'm just gonna smoke a fag and then the police pin you to the floor it gets embarrassing but uh, but I
Mrs. Obama get down
Yeah, this is them. It's fine tangent isn't it? Oh, absolutely. We are killing time. It's just
that's true, but yeah, but it doubles up as um
Joseph will never come into this podcast because I said the naughty word and on top of that
He considers me having pulled my apology back when I was explicit from the beginning. I don't apologize for using the word
I hope you can water under the faggot as far as i'm concerned. I think they're not aware of that definition
What's the thing people find it offensive right when you go i'm sorry you're offended it's like what else do you want from me?
I'm, sorry you were offended
Yeah, yeah, I just did
I love how we watched the mask of zoro yesterday and there isn't even that line like i'm just
Yeah
I didn't know mauler just invited me. Wow. Hey wait, it's not like that. It was you're such a massive faggot
I referenced it and wolf was like, oh sure
Yeah, we could watch it i've never seen it before I love the mask of zoro
Well, I I was just mentioning it because there's that line in the
where um
The god, why can I not think of his name? I should really know his name
No, no the bigger
Very old man. Anthony hopkins. Yeah. Anthony hopkins. Why could I not remember his name? He's only the biggest actor
Anyway, there's that oh, no, that wasn't him. That was some random dude who went up to the other talking about
It was it was that guy who was like i'm sorry if you're offended
Well, listen, I would help you out trying to find out what happened in the movie
But it's been so long and I haven't seen it recently
Now that I know that you love it the thing is that we have semantic
Progression words can change meaning over time
And I think if we if we didn't make the word taboo and if we all just went around like how are you faggot?
I think that would take away the taboo and then we can just openly say faggot and there would be no hurt
That's the ongoing argument. Does it depower the word or does it normalize the insult?
You only give it as much power as you want it to have
Yeah, well someone said in chat a stab at me when I eat mr
Brain's pork faggots. I mean faggots can also mean that small meaty thing you eat
I can't eat faggots. Well, they sell in shops with that labeled on the front. That's offensive faggots in an oven
But um, yeah stabber said offense is taken not given
Correct
Yeah, beautiful
Um, but anyway, yeah, let's let's kick on let's kick on because at this rate we won't finish it by the time he's here
Little while ago and it's very very good. Please go watch his as well
All i'm saying is that if we're to survive as a human race, we need to be more accepting of when we hear a different
I find
That statement's a big grandiose, dude
Let me let me let me run it again in case the audience didn't hear it very similar
A great and it's very very good. Please go watch his as well
All i'm saying is that if we're to survive as a human race
God fucking damn it wolf
Shut up
Sorry
The one that said it
Is as well all i'm saying is that if we're to survive as a human race
We need to be more accepting of when we hear a differing thought
Oh fuck off
That's so if we're gonna survive as a race that reminds me of uh, total elk's adding being like peace
Love ed happiness
If we're gonna survive as a human, right you're gonna bring up the survival of the human race
I guess you would argue he was being tongue in cheek
I guess I I understand what you're saying. We should all be open to different opinions, but again
The human race doesn't survive I think we need like the heat death of the universe
No, it'll bring it on wolf. It won't be it won't be global warming or some kind of attack
It'll be opinions differing but we're talking about fucking gaming here
No, it'll be because someone said
Five is
Yet, and he's like oh
What are the nukes?
The gays will take over and then no children will be born and then it will be the cockroaches time to thrive
It'll be it'll be like children of men as soon as someone says in my opinion pregnancy is not real pregnancy will stop
And then there'll be one kid left
You
Need to be more accepting of when we hear a differing thought
The internet has been a blessing and a curse because while it's opened many doorways for people to share with each other in new ways
We would have never dreamed of decades ago
It also has given us multiple avenues to say things in a relatively anonymous and guilt-free way next time before you
faggot faggot faggot faggot faggot faggot faggot
Uh, yeah, he what he what he just said is true, but it doesn't really hold relevance as far as I'm concerned
Yeah, you have anonymity on the internet and thank god people are anonymous on the internet
No anonymous and guilt-free way next time before you comment on a video bashing the creator for how wrong they are and a terrible person
Because of it think about if you would say the same thing to that person if you saw them face to face. I'm sorry
We're not a human there's two dogs and a puppet and a guy in a gas mask who might just be very badly burnt
He might be he's a lizard man. Yeah, the holocaust was a lie
Oh my goodness. That's your opinion. Oh
What what did this video just become? I don't know though. There's a weird weird ending is
Miss and guilt-free way that's all hold hands under a rain like would so his perspective is like
Would you say the same shit if you were in person with the person? It's like maybe depends what they said
Well, yeah, is it the say if if i'm in public and I say I didn't like persona five
Is that going to start a race war?
It's very grandiose
Nowadays, um
I'm trying to think of like well, I'll just like think of the worst thing someone could say to you in public
Would you go? Well, this is in public. So I won't criticize you. It's like no
No, go for it. I don't mind
Yeah, people get it's better than hiding behind a screen
Someone says don't be such a massive wolf a massive
Don't be such a massive
So does this person think that um, like it's bad to be anonymous on the internet
I think he's saying that being anonymous on the internet gives people the
Encouragement to say things without guilt as in i'm just gonna say something mean me but good
I think that's good. Well, I was just gonna say like
It's like ignoring all of the good things that come with that to be candid about what's happening in the video like go for it
Um, obviously people say some horrible things online. Sure
But I don't know this seems a bit hyperbolic it's like
Maybe you wouldn't say that if you saw me in person. It's like maybe they would
I've said significantly worse in person. Yeah, I mean i've had some i've had some arguments in person
Let me say that
It's big on things in a relatively anonymous and guilt-free way next time before you comment on a video bashing the creator for how
Wrong they are and also the way he phrases that bashing the creator for how wrong they are
It's like well, what if they were really wrong and they misrepresented something?
Wouldn't bashing them be warranted depending on what your definition of bashing is?
Yeah, a lot of this would a lot of this issue would be resolved if you had a thicker skin, honestly
Yes, yes, but it's it's 2019 I need my safe space i'm offended by that way
You couldn't you wouldn't download a car. So why would you download an insult?
Well, just by browsing the internet you're downloading insults
I'm gonna i'm gonna open up faggot.exe. Oh my god
Next time before you comment on a video bashing the creator for how wrong they are and a terrible person because of it
Think about if you would say I mean it
Maybe think about bashing them in real life. Couldn't you have shown an example of that by the way?
Has he actually got comments saying your opinion on the ness is inaccurate and therefore you're a terrible person?
Jeez, i'd be like wow
How did they guess your character just from talking about death games? Okay
Fair enough
Say the same thing to that person if you saw them face to face
Please don't ever forget that we're all human and are no different when it comes to this turned into like oh, fuck you
psa
Psa remember treat each other with respect. Peace out
Like am I watching fucking captain planet here where we've all got to just hold hands under a rainbow
Because it's really just a prep for tonal look
All right, tonal I got the crowd warmed up they're they're just like gooey putty now
I wonder how yeah, this is this gonna end super positively
That we're all human and are no different when it comes to having flaws and separate views
If you're already on board here and think this topic was
What what do you mean unjustified hate are you saying that my opinion doesn't matter
We were going over this slightly earlier
It's like what is the correct amount of feeling one has in response to a thing?
How are you supposed to react to things? You know, it's like
Can you really say that someone someone shouldn't be angry if you've gotten something wrong about something they're really passionate about it's like
Ever forget that we're all human and are no different when it comes to having flaws and separate views
If you're already on board here and think this topic was already thinking
It's a no-brainer. Don't let unjustified hate go unchecked the best thing we can
Unchecked I just what does he mean by all of these words?
Unjustified hatred going unchecked. What what is all that?
I would never ever say that you can't let the comments and the comment section of my video go unchecked
Like the the hatred is just i'm like, oh, i'm so sorry that this bothers you man
Well, no
This seems to be the the the nest video happened
Then joe's fans put the video out about horror games and he got shat on then he put out the
Defense video for that and it got shat on
And I think snowman would have empathized with it been like oh man. I get I get what's happening to you just happen to me
But this contradicts what he said previously where we need to be able to
Press our opinions and shared days for the survival of the species might I am?
So by having to curb some of the things you see what I mean
It's like we need to be free with ideas, but but not too free because it might upset people
That's the whole idea though. You need to be able to explore
New ideas and take criticism so you can develop your ideas and develop as a person
Like I said, that's how we're gonna survive as a species don't give you a scathing
Ripping a part of your channel, but it was like all accurate
Like fuck it, you know, and then it will I guess that comes down to the whole he said it's unjustified hate
I just i'm curious what
What does unjustified
I'm yeah, what does it mean unjustified? It's just like it can only you can only be so angry. You're only allowed to be so angry
so you can pacify hatred but
Like when it's not when it's you or you not any youtube not any youtube video
Appa bed said so what he's essentially saying is yeah, i'm fucking better than you is that a reference to rags or snowman?
They're rags i'm not i'm not gonna say i'm better than you like in general, but I might point specific people. Yeah, i'm better
Well, um, if if someone wanted like a serious
Qualification of that it would just be like better in what way morally and then you'd have to provide a standard or better in
How much they help a community or how much they what they operate with standards they have better
It's just going to be based on a specific thing
You just have to ask them what they're doing reference to anna casparian at the young turk is better than you
Okay, well, you didn't know that wolf
I don't watch the young turks. I don't watch the fucking
Everyone knows that quote though. So
I just try to pretend these people one of these people who think that, you know, no one's better than anyone else is like
You're not better than hitler
Oh, you mean that's how you you get them to realize that
They would make that statement. He's like don't you think that you're better than hitler is like I am no better than hitler. He's like
cool, right
fucking satan
Anyway, yeah, we need enough. I was in we're already talking about hitler. That's true. The chat is true
I'm better bred than you that's true. I think I think it took a while for us to get to hitler considering to be honest
Wasn't quick. Yeah, it took us need to step up our game
Was a no-brainer don't let unjustified hate go unchecked the best thing we can do for one another
Encourage each of us to do better
So sorry, this video wasn't about any games or at least a new
Oh, baby, I went there. Why did you what's the point of telling a joke if you're gonna apologize?
Uh in case in case people take you seriously, there you go. Oh, imagine if every comedian did that
It's a good joke. I'm sorry, by the way. I'm sorry that I did that
Jeez man, i'm sorry. That's exactly what you're talking about. Can we just not canadiify the whole world?
Not everyone needs to be canadian. Oh like sorry for themselves
You mean sorry
Baby, sorry there. Sorry. I'm sorry. When I say a game is shit. I'm not apologetic about it
You know, i'm not gonna say i'm sorry. No bioshock infinite shit game. I'm not gonna say i'm sorry
If you like that shit game, okay, but you know, whatever that's just like whatever you're like opinion man
Dun dun dun good games. Oh, baby. I went there. Sorry. Sorry. That's exactly what i'm talking about
But I hope you can understand my perspective for any future video and instead of starting discourse because something made your blood boil
Go and share some love to that's all
Wow free loving man rags. Do you want to share some love tonight?
No, it's all although i'm taking that love. It's all for me
I'm hopping on that love and i'm taking every little drop of it. Hey, i'm perfectly fine with that. Let's do it
Let's do it
So, what do you say instead instead of starting discourse over making your blood boil? What was the second part?
We should go out and spread some love
What does that even mean? Well if you use queer response theory there, sorry
Sorry, that's exactly what i'm talking about
But I hope you can understand my perspective for any future video and instead of starting discourse because something made your blood boil
Go and share some love today
If you see something that you're upset with or that offends you or that you think is terrible or bad for the world or an incorrect opinion
Just let it be just let those bad ideas propagate don't counter them with your own instead. Just go talk about happy things like
No, no, it wants to share some love. So if you get really angry, just go out and fuck someone
I was gonna say yeah, that's truly what he means. That's not our participation. That's what he did outside
And have sex with someone when share some love today. There's four of us here. Let's do it
I don't see why not massive love hashtag
I gotta say i'll see you guys next time stay frosty my friend. Don't you dare? That's gotta be his normal outro, I think
Oh
Sean p. You're terrible. Why would you give this guy money?
Ben, kima
Anyone can give anyone money, especially kima lee akima l and radio lizard
Low to your content. I mean, this is just one video. So it's so wishy washy and
Ambiguous and feely goody
Well, it's clearly made to try and offset. Um
What he considers to be the fault in a lot of his critics that are coming to the channel
The the common thread that they seem to misunderstand which is
He's not being objective guys
Or that he's not presenting things that he feels as a factual thing, but I
Feel like that's such a generalized view that you need to actually get to a specific example
to be like
Uh, see this is the you know saying nintendo games suck
I'd be like, yeah, that's not you need to be more specific about that
You can't just say that and expect people to be like, oh cool
Apparently there is a joseph a in his list of patrons
Well, uh, really why not right? I don't know. They seem to be cut from a similar cloth
They come from the same grapevine I get it
Listen, there are two faggots in the same pack
Um, so faggots are cigarettes
No, no, no any facts. We don't we don't smoke faggots. Yes, you do in the story aboot that joke guys. Hey
Um, he's not he's not back yet. So what we could do is uh, read out a selection of super chat while we wait
And uh, we also have the gay donuts as well. That's always a possibility though. I think if he came back to the stream
You told us to spread some love here we are
What are you saying that donuts can't have love
Oh wait
Will make you think otherwise
So I wonder if snowman is aware of joseph anson's position on me I wonder if that'll prevent him from wanting to come in here
I don't know
Is a massive
Oh, look at this the first one says happy anniversary professor tosspot i'm so happy you're on efans
It's your anniversary of what five years of my show smack talk
I know
Like the anniversary of when you found out you were gay
Do people celebrate that out of history some people do when do you know the first day you're gay?
Yeah
You see that you do something gay not the first day like, you know, I like we no one no one forgets the first dick
They sucked. I mean like do you remember?
um
The the moment when he turned gay or is it like a
like a belief thing
Well, I guess it would depend on like the guy that you're attracted to
Yeah, but even though why you're attracted to him. That's the thing
Well, like you could be attracted to another man in a non-sexual way
Yeah, it was like that with me and harvey weinstein there was no up there it was all business
No, like you could that's why we have that's why you have friends because you're attracted to other people for non-sexual reasons a lot of
the times
Attracted to traits of that person not the physical part of the person. No, that that's different
gay day professor
Thank you cj
Miss you buddy all sorts of things for all sorts of reasons
So the point is it's like no one remembers the like the moment they became an atheist, right?
It's just like a time frame
But it kind of happens over time and then you just realize it
I mean I kind of like I never had a moment when I was coalescing. I don't believe in this at all
That's the moment that you realize it
Well, yeah, but I mean beforehand I did believe in it and then I started doing more and more research
And then it came to a point where I was like, I don't believe this at all. Do I?
But what was that point? Like do you remember like that?
I mean, I I couldn't like nail down a date or a particular thing
It was just like a culmination of things and then once it got to a certain point
I was like, I don't believe this
She'd give up on god to become a fairy
I'm not a first off. I'm not a furry. This is a terrible rumor that's circulating around the internet
It has no absolute justification towards it whatsoever. It is slander
It is both slander and libel. It's libel
And I will not I will not stand for it because I am none of those things
And I both jay in the chat is asking for me to justify or explain friends with benefits
So I don't where is this going of course jay doesn't understand that
I think that he's saying that I don't is it really a controversial thing to say that you can be attracted to people for non-sexual
reasons
I don't think so. I'm curious because
As long as you say no homo, it's fine
Hold on when you say attracted to someone do you mean like attracted to the way they look?
No
No, I think he just means you want to hang around with somebody be around somebody like yeah
I don't know
I guess it just depends on there's like liking somebody
Yeah, if you're attracted to someone's personality, how is that not liking?
Yeah, you'd be and it could be a variety of reasons
One of them could be sexual reasons
It's very it's very true. It's very true. So
The um, the second the second super chat is first donation of the day
Hey, so, um, no, that's the second of the day actually. Sorry
Four-hour street faster on the
We got uh, we're two and a half hours in so, uh, who knows how long this may go
We need to get to tonaled man pull guy
tonaled
And the vox video. Um, somebody said vox just has a slight echo
But I think since I was so long ago, nobody else has mentioned it. I'm sure it's fine
I'm sure you're fine. No worries. Um
What crap did I join in on there's probably gonna be a lot of those if this efab ends before tomorrow afternoon
I'm fucking suing. Oh shit
Uh-oh
What's tomorrow afternoon for you?
Uh, why are you gonna do this when i'm about to leave for work here take my anger money
But like an unhappy face
Hey molar have you seen counter-arguments video on 12 angry men? I have not. Um
I I mean could be interesting counter-argument. It's one of your favorite films, isn't it?
well, it's the one I cite when people are like what's the oldest favorite film you have because
I I like it a lot and then also it's really old so
Someone said i'm glad facebook invented liking things
Who'd win in a fight jared or there's ninja turtle shit on or wolf after watching the gray
Jared of course
I would actually say jared because i'm like an emotional mess after watching the gray
This is in a puddle of tears while jared is standing strong with his t-shirt. I love that movie
Uh, I loved your fallout 76 video molar from creamy sheave, of course
Not of effort molar you should make more videos like that. I like the dog avatar you use
I'm gonna do fallout 77 next. Um, I feel like just next one in the in the line is the smart decision there
Um, we need to have a conversation on pastry age of consent laws. That's obviously relevant to um, um,
I think once you I think once they're out of the oven
If they're out of the oven it's time for shaven. I
Oh god, I think that's right. I don't know how much biology that's based on their eggs
But I think it's a fair sort of standard. Well if they're sentient that implies that there's a little bit more than just
Well, you're gonna read this fucking passage i've got
Oh god, um something funnier than rhino milk donut and then um eggplant
Oh because
Oh, okay, I get I get I i'm buying what they're selling i'm picking up what they're dropping down if you
if you gather the
Things that I am communicating from even francisco. Why is it that voxus shows up and everything gets really gay?
Yeah, why is that?
We're going to have to go to patreon to see the second half of this stream. Oh
This actually is the gayest one. I think we've done. Yeah. Yes
We've done this is
I'll check the i'll check the game. I'm sorry. I think we're up to like 17 gays right now
Jesus a lot
Is this your normal voice somebody said?
Yes, of course. Uh
There's professor tospots voice me
He's an esteemed professor. Which uh, which university were you currently working at?
Harvard with a bit of yale, of course. Yeah on the side casual. Yeah, you pop in there once in a while
Give them a bit of your insight
They love it they all pop up on the table and say my captain oh captain, uh, please get rid of this fucker
Yeah, then I shoot myself
Oh
Appa beds somebody posted that two romance video that is going to be out on uh, valentine's day because it's a romantic movie. Oh
Um, hey, love y'all
Thanks for always cheering me up with your videos of or efap when i'm depressed really looking forward to wolf's return
Also, i'd like to make some royalty free music for rags for free. Obviously. How can I hit you up?
Uh email
Email where can they find it?
Uh, my channel, uh his channel one eight hundred
Get rags at gmail.com. Yeah, is that actually your email? Yeah one eight zero zero get rags
No, i'm i'm deadly serious it's on it's on my channel you can check it out it's on my channel
So now I have to go look
Why you don't trust me? What's the point of asking me if you don't?
Well, I don't know you you said that the world is like a grape before it's like a weird grape
It depends if you look at it like metaphorically wolf cheese, it's really oh my god
Oh that actually literally is his email. Yeah, because i'm not a liar. So when I say that the world is more like a
blueberry
because of the color
Really makes more sense
Uh, I milk rhinos and look at women. It's a simple life, but it's an honest life
Look at women
Uh recently got caught up on the regular efab working through the gaming one now watching it work. So rip my data
Oh, it's awful. Would um, would audio only versions of the efab gaming be pointless?
Pretty much. Yeah, because you wouldn't understand like what we're laughing at most of the time
To be fair two of the other people in the podcast might not well like for the first one since it's all
since I guess it's uh
three people from a their own perspectives
You're kind of doing that 66 anyway
Also, yeah james moor sent the uh the one about toss pot he wanted to make sure you knew that
Oh, what what's this? Uh james moor. I'm assuming you recognize the name
Yeah, he pops on our chats a few times. He's a very flush donator, isn't he? Very kind very generous man
Yeah, he must be in the columbian bath salt business like me
Um can't stay long i'm writing this during a lecture
I want to say thank you lads for the countless awesome hours. How many tips for those wanting to make long form content? Oh
Rescript rescript rescript. Yeah, that would be the fundamental one
Be smart
Well, the idea is like you would never set out to make it long you set out for other things and be long as uh
you know the
yeah, length is is generally a it's a
A consequence of just kind of how you discuss things and how your thought process is
It's not what your goal is. It's just it happens. That's just how it ends up being
Oh snowman gaming is back. All right. Do you want to?
uh, hmm twitter, I suppose
Send me I can get you my uh, my discord
nombre
then um
Be there should be a way to do it spread some love. Yes all over your face
um
A couple a couple little funnies on twitter as well. I uh
I'll i'll show this one
I'm going the loo. Oh god. Oh no
You guys kind of need to have seen uh south park for that one
I have seen that episode good shit, man. I haven't been catching up with south park though lately
Yeah, I haven't seen it in a while
And then there's of course the shaggy memes that are coming out
Now the the obvious is shaggy versus um
Oh man
All I need is a good one two punch and you're down on the fucking ground
I'm positive. That's a jared like an actual jared quote. Yeah. No, I think it is too
um
If you haven't subbed yet go subscribe to jared genesis
Uh, oh he said he added me on twitter, okay, how do I jaden christ
No, oh shit which there's loads of snowmen which one are you
No, man gaming
There you are
I'm here. Yeah. Oh hello rags
Hello
What it was uh was my presence requested, of course it was you know
Oh shit, how do I okay? Um
Oh god, did he actually make his 1000?
He did
He made it. He made a 1000 video already
Well, what can we get here is in his room when it happened?
Mahler, can we please?
Can we please watch it? Oh the we can sure we'll do it after we can save it to the end
Yeah, we'll do it after um after snowman has a pop in
I I don't want to watch it yet because I feel like he's gonna do something crazy. I don't want to
Hey
Yeah, uh, i'm just waiting together the um this tag for discord then i'll add him then we'll throw him in
and I would do a little discussion about um
Everything meteor analysis and then we can jump onto that video
I suppose next because I feel like everybody's gonna want to see it now. Does it seem happy?
Hmm the video does it seem happy? Oh, i'm not i'm not looking at it. I want to save
I want to go into a cold. That's fair enough so it can warm up my heart
What if we start like crying watching it like we're so happy for our jared I really am a big softy
Underneath the course rough exterior
Hmm
I could read the rest of the gay donuts while we're killing time. Oh, he's yes. He's he's gonna be it
I just oh wait super chats. I just stabbed him as soon as he accepts
Coming in gonna be spooky. Also. Yeah, the chat window will be all for a second while i'm uh,
I'm glooping my schloops. All right, I will be right back. I have got to piss. All right, then
Do you have to though?
A little a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Why did you have to piss?
Well, you shouldn't you should well, it's because I I have you guys gonna argue over whether or not you can go pee
The rapper rubber. Well, look, I can't let this go. I know that's a terrible. I really can
No, I mean, yeah, you can but it's not a good idea. You don't have a piss bucket for your just piss
Why do we even bring him what do you uh, hello, what would you like to go by?
Hey, is it like snowman or is it something you else would prefer?
Uh, I prefer
No, I couldn't think of anything. Yeah
I'm brad. Whatever you can call me whatever you want. Sure. Um
Uh that goes back just a long time. I don't know if you know when like everyone had uh
old like name gamertags like when you're young and you're playing counter strike with a friend and
That that was your name
You're edgy and you think without a w it's cool. And then so it just stuck
I mean I had I my original name online was um
The first one I ever chose is the pokemon one where I called myself anus because everybody tried to find the funniest name
To have professor okra fit u.s
Anus anus
That was such a terrible word when we were young. You can't say
You said it
Well, and when I very first started I had the capital n at the end and a lowercase s which was
Bad
Capital in in a lowercase. Yeah, so like at the very end so it was like, you know capital backward kind of thing
Snowman snowman. Are you your boss isn't too mad for you watching our podcast?
Yeah, I haven't lost your job because we wouldn't want to be responsible for that
It's like that's why i'm able to come on. They let me go
Really? They said you're not being productive. Fuck off already. Go home and listen to your podcast
Like fine you go be on the podcast
What do you do if you don't mind me asking is it?
Um, i'm i'm a youth minister actually. I have a very flexible job. Oh, okay
Um, I mean, would you like to to kick it off? You you saw us uh rambling on about your video. Yeah
Well, I was I was just thinking about some things on my drive back. Um
just thinking about it and everything and
Uh, at least just to start this off
I guess the first thing that came to my mind was there is kind of two separate definitions of
Objective that I think people use or that it's like morphed into the accepted, you know
Comment, uh space where when people say I wish she was more objective
I think what they're trying to say is I want that person to be without bias
But a lot of the times the way that
Is like perceived is without opinion
Which I think are two different things and they're not good things. You know, I mean, um
What what they'll usually say in response is like what you're describing it's not objective. It's well founded as jack and eric put it or as
Uh, joseph anison will usually just say well, no your opinion is now turned into a fact
Instead of an opinion
Yeah, which is interesting to say the least because I uh, there's a couple of things i'd like to present to him
Which is like, uh, you know, like everybody accepting the the world was flat or whatever
Let's just say they did at some point in history and one guy was like, no, no, it's it's a sphere
Then one guy goes that's just your opinion. You're wrong
Base it off. Nothing. I thought they find out it was true. It's like oh so all along he was saying a fact
Is so it's based on how much we know changes the statement's
actual
Label if you will it's kind of like hmm
This seems weird while we advocate that it was always an opinion and what it's based on will basically uh determine
You could use the word validity. Uh, but I think that a subjective opinion is obviously valid
It's just careful using it careful conflating the two
things like like x is bad because I don't like it versus x is bad because it uh
Is filled with all these amazing game breaking glitches or something like that. Yeah, and I see that a lot
I see a lot of videos where it's like
This game the world just feels so barren or oh the world just you know
What but like they don't give like specifics or or sometimes that statement inherently is very subjective anyway, right?
So there's not much to go off of to present in a video anyway, which is like
Equally that just doesn't helping anyone right? Mm-hmm. It's like you're saying if you're just saying yeah
I just didn't like the game
well
That if you're not going to detail or you're not like if there isn't stuff to really
Go off of then it's that's just not good
Um, yeah, so like the the we have loads of issues with with joseph's video
I feel like yours is slightly different in terms of what you're going for here, but his was more
the uh
Wants to draw a line for like what are you what are you i'm curious?
What was your take on the fact that he said um, like genre is subjective
So him saying so much not a horror game is obviously subjective because genre is subjective
Yeah, I don't have much of a dog in the race in terms of one side or the other I
I think I agreed with his subjectivity video in that
it
From the side of a creator. I definitely like felt for him a lot of
A lot of the same stuff I presented
But the angle that I did try to go from was a bit more of a
Can't we all get a long?
Angle, right? I can respect that, you know, you know what I mean rather than a than a
A lot of people get very emotive and there's no shade of people
Uh, and it's it's it's it's bad
But at the same time it is it is a fact of the internet you are going to get people who're going to throw shade and
Sometimes you just have a bit of a thicker skin not that i'm saying you're thin skin
But no, I I agree fact of
And it's shitty it would be nice if we could all hold hands under a rainbow as it were and play nice
But it's just not going to happen. Oh, and um, I don't know if people this is just something people probably
uh
Joe Rogan has sam harris on
And it's at 6.3 k viewers, which is retarded because it's like he would have way more than that
Yeah, and apparently I was doing the same something's going on with I was about to say there's no way chat is this active with 133 people
Weird. Yeah, because I just saw that too. I thought that was really low
All right. So everyone in chat what I need you to do is you someone go first start with one and the next person do two
And we'll use that to find out how many people are in chat
And then all right, tell you what
I'm curious. I'm curious if uh, if the view account goes past zero
One two eleven twenty eight two three it's going down. It says 80 now. What if it goes to negatives? I wanted to go to negatives
negative one views
Yeah, if there's that many people commenting which is usually like utmost 30 of the actual audience, uh, right
I'd be surprised. Yeah, it's it's fine. Um
So this is just youtube fucking up. We haven't said it's is it because we said faggot
Okay, so there seems to be some confusion with my instructions and I thought they were very very
Very reasonable instructions apparently we're having some issues keeping an order
Also, I just wanted to uh draw attention j posted a quote from joseph
Anna said I want to know if what you thought of it in the video where he said, um
Uh, fuck j wrote it out. I was gonna read it but i've lost it because of all the stupid
Oh, yeah, here it is. Uh more people listen to me talk about fallout four in one day than most people have listened to in their entire lives
What did you think of that quote
Oh that uh, that was joseph. Yeah
I'm, sorry. I saved the quote one more time. Uh
More people listen to me talk about fallout four in one day than most people have listened to in their entire lives
I mean
Uh, i'm waiting for you to go. Well, it might be true though. It's like it doesn't matter if it's true. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Conceded to say maybe um
Are you friends with with joseph?
Um from a distance, uh, you know
No, i've talked to him maybe once or twice you're attracted to him in non-physical ways
I will say hey, I will say he comment. He commented on my video and said good luck
Well, he's he got a shit ton of slack for his I know I know his videos and and you'll find loads people reference
the peak joseph as uh
Somer is not a horror game
The statement is is is one of the best examples to sort of talk about this whole problem because it's like how does genre work?
it's like well
did you know
genre they wouldn't it wouldn't
His argument is that it's subjective and he says that you would call something a horror game if it's scaring you and my argument would be
It doesn't matter if it scared you if you're dealing with something like amnesia. It didn't scare you you don't go
Well now it's a comedy. You'd be like, well, no if you found it funny
You know what I mean? Like, um, yeah someone could argue tlj is a comedy because they couldn't stop laughing
How bad it was i'd be like it's not a comedy even though I don't think it's good
And it gets into a complicated discussion about how genre works
But the idea that he's walking back on saying soma is not a horror game. It's not scary. It's like you can't that
Non sequitur there's a lot of a lot of people would probably put it we get a lot of those
um, yeah, do you have a take on that or well, what's what's weird is I I
Put before I made my video I put on I I like went back and looked at his because when he first made it
I was like, oh, yeah. Okay, like I definitely agree with I think like his overall message with his subjectivity video
and so I
But then I went back and looked at it right before I posted mine and saw all the negative like I mean just insane negative comments
And then so I put on twitter. I was like, I think a lot of people are gonna hate this video
I have coming up. I was like, maybe this was a bad idea
Uh, but surprisingly, I think the vast majority of comments on it were were really positive
Do you think people should be allowed to express negative?
Sorry their negative opinion yeah negative opinion
Do you think people should be allowed to voice their negative opinions?
Yeah, of course the the hard thing is um
I was gonna say this too that you really only get the discourse
When it's when it is a negative thought right if I made a video
That was just praising a game and even if other people hated the game
They're not going to be as lashing out to me because i'm just voicing a positive opinion
You know what I mean? Why I don't know why you would throw lashing out and discourse into the same boat
Uh, yeah, because there's connotations that come with lashing out how it's like you're referring to people saying like your video is poorly made
Or you're referring to when I say when I say discourse, I meant I made negative discourse. Sure. That's fair. It's just that um
Because we we are perpetually having the problem of people being like fucking rags molar and
And wolf being being those guys, you know
The fucking toxic assholes who are just like all those people who harass people online for being in tlj
It's like we've never done that. It's like yeah, but you make videos that make those people think that's okay
Like we've never advocated for that. It's like yeah, but
You're you're you're the neg you're the ass and we're like, what do you even mean?
Just because we criticized a movie now, we're like demons and they they would absolutely refer to us as lashing out against tlj
When we're just like the movie was really poorly written
Yeah, I just mean um
People coming after your opinion in a video so they comment and say
No, no, no that you're totally wrong. That only comes out way more when you say a negative opinion
Um, yeah, there's that saying right? Like if you want the right answer, just uh, give people the wrong one on the internet
As in like espouse the wrong position and you'll get the right one straight away. Like say for example if I
Couldn't be devil's advocate. No, no, it's like so if I if I was like, um
Fucking I I need a full list of
Films, uh, brian kranston was in I could check his IMDB. But if I just post on reddit, uh
It's pretty cool that brian kranston is such a well-known actor when he's only been in breaking bad
People will be like what the fuck are you talking? They just write out like you're so wrong
He's all in all these things. This is amazing mark in the middle. There's like all these other films now
He's in it and I just be like there you go guys
are you more likely to let somebody know that they've said something incorrect or
Tell people that they were correct for saying something that's accepted as correct
And people don't typically want to bring you down for celebrating a piece of media
But they I still I actually think that's an issue as in people will rip into cinema sins
But potentially lying about movies to make them look worse or inaccurate criticisms. However
People are less
Conflicted about cinema wins when I think and and I i'm assuming wolf and rags probably agree with this because we did cover him
He has the exact same problem in reverse. He'll be inaccurate about the movie to make it seem better
That is what we noticed
It is easier to criticize than to praise people give it a pass when it's for positivity. Yes, but if it's for
negativity then
It it's seen in a different light
That's kind of why I just I began the video with that whole preface about games discussion in general because you just it really you
Really like especially on twitter. There's so much right now of like what's your?
uh
What do they call it? Um controversial opinion, right? So like you're what's your
That's not the word they use but I think you've probably seen them. There's all these threads
Unpopular pin. Thank you. And so it's like what's your unpopular?
Final fantasy opinion. What's your unpopular zelda opinion? That was a lot like just this last week
And so people just like latch on to this like hot take mentality and stuff
Uh on the flip side though, I will say I do think
It's a vocal minority probably like there's there's a lot more people that are totally fine
With a video and they just never say and they never comment anything
You know, so I know this is a bit like idealist
but like we'd like to believe that if there's a
an imbalanced amount of
Hatred or response to a video then we'd be like what's the reason then let's watch it and find out if there's something
particularly disagreeable and oftentimes there will be like
Joseph anison's videos on horror and on on the the correction one like
I would I would try and say with most benefit of the doubt 80 of the top comments were like, okay
However, and then paragraphs
Because they were like your video is not making sense. Um
Now, uh, you'd be like, well, why is that happening?
And then you look watch the video and you might be like, okay, there's some reasons here
We we I don't know if you heard about one of the examples we gave was like
Movie bob has been moved over to the escapist
Which is pissing people off in general because he ends up in their their feed when all they want is yachty videos. But um
He gets like ones that are particularly hated versus ones that aren't it's like, okay
So you must have said something in this one and it's just like just watch the diablo immortal video and you'll find the quote
Where you're just like, oh, this is what pissed everyone off
Yeah, I mean most of the videos we cover are you know in terms of the like and dislike rate
Very positive and so they're terrible videos
My point is that if you've pissed some people off with a video particularly it's like and then you find out that it's because of that
statement, let's just say for sake of argument, it was the uh
neskames kind of suck then um
You know if I was a friend of yours
I'd be like have you how many of them have you played and then you give me an answer and i'm like hmm
And then what are you reasoning and then go through it all and if if if everything's sound i'd just be like
Well, as long as you justify the claim
Ignore them
Uh, if you don't though then expect those comments also everyone's pressing. I do think I do think there's a it's f for the stream
Is it down?
No, it's up. It's just that the numbers keep going down
I told you negative negative. Here we come. There's people in the chat that are like, all right guys
Bots left. We got to fight to see who gets to watch
You
Um, I was just gonna say sorry i'm eating a salad, um
that just
As creators too. Like we tend to focus on the negative like
What do they say where it's like it takes, you know 40 compliments to outweigh a
uh
negative whatever
Um
Like to just make you feel better about it like like if I if I had 40 comments that said this video was really great
I really liked it
I would probably take them all as like just one positive
But then if there was one negative that was like I didn't like your voice
That's the one that'll stick out in my head. That's 100 like a human psychology thing as far as right, right, right
Yeah, so i'm saying that's also partly on me where it's like I just probably shouldn't let comments get to me anyway, but
No, because you have to put everything in context if you've got more likes than you do dislikes
That's all that matters. If you've got a high number fans and subscribers, which you do
Then you must be doing something right?
I think the question you have to ask yourself is uh, why are you doing this?
Are you are you there to annoy people or are you here to entertain people?
And I think it's probably the last isn't you're here to entertain and maybe impart some sort of wisdom or whatever. Yeah
That'd be a fair surmise. Yeah, yeah, totally and you'll you'd definitely be in the camp of using objective to mean, uh
irrelevant of
wait, like uh, so
To be objective you wouldn't be able to have a qualifying statement of value if you were using objective
As in a game can objectively have things in it
But uh, you can't define whether or not those things are good or bad or positive or negative or over good standard or bad
Standard objectively is that?
I would use objective to mean without bias
So like I would try to look at a game and say even if like it was an old game that I had a ton
Of nostalgia for I can still see the negatives that people don't like about it
But that doesn't mean it's without opinion where like I would still have my opinions about it
And still voice those and still try to back those up. Can a game be objectively bad?
It's hard man because like I I want to say like yes, but but that's because I feel that way, right?
So for example, I had a donkey in my donkey onk 64 video
There was one part where I said I and again, this is older
So I was like back then I even had a friend that looked at my script and was like you probably shouldn't say this because I
Said I but I think we can all agree
There's some parts of this game that are objectively bad
And I showed this part of like ditty kong doing the rocket barrel stuff and like the controls are terrible and stuff
So and again, i'm like in my head. I'm like, yeah, that's like not controversial at all, right?
but uh
You know, there's always some people and then yeah, you gotta be careful using the word because people extrapolate
Right. It's a shame. You have to always second. That's what you're writing
Can I say that?
Sometimes you have to think right does it really fucking matter? I'm just if you're finally having to censor yourself
Then eventually you just you might as well be a fucking mute
It was interesting because like if I was playing that game with you and you said um god some of the things you're just objectively bad
Let's just say I was being approved. I'd be like
How would you explain why?
on that particular thing
Right, and then if whatever you say i'd be like, uh, I just recommend throwing that in the video instead of saying it's objectively bad
but
Just so that um, and that almost implies that I don't say I totally say a thing is objectively bad if i've gone through
Right. I don't know if you're familiar with my stuff
But I just take a million years to go through
What I consider to be the majority of the aspects of the particular element of the craft that i'm gunning for in which case with movies
It's always writing
With with reference to a few other elements that I still people think that I think visuals aren't important in a movie
It's a funny myth, but um every time there's a new meme
There's always there's always ones like, you know rags thinks everything he says is truth sort of stuff like that
It's like we have to dispel them all the time
but uh
Yeah, no like so if I go through
Every element of what the characters are doing what the story tells us how the world building is constructed and i'm finding
uh flaws in all of it i'm basically like
Oh, yeah subjectively speaking we're dealing with a pretty bad piece of writing here and someone's like you can't say that
It's qualitative based on how you'd feel and it just comes back to the whole um, how you define bad and good
That's what i'm saying is like when we would say that I feel like we're saying
Come on. Look at both sides here. You got to admit. There's some things that are wrong with it
But then they interpret that as but then but but I don't feel that way
And so, you know
Well, it's instantly a
Like a tangent there because you're talking about an objective quality and someone says well, I feel you know, duh duh duh
Well because yeah, exactly they interpret because this is the thing. Uh, what was it? Who's the one who said it just right? He said, um
It's not objective if someone disagrees that was his standard for objective
Yeah, that's an insane like I don't even know where that's coming from
Yeah, wow, it's just so out there. I don't even
Can you believe he has a channel about writing?
I can't say that. What if someone just disagrees just for the sake of disagreeing? Well, this is the thing it's like so the earth is not
Spherical oblique spheroid whatever the fuck they call it if uh, if some guy says not flat
And if if his point was you can't say everyone agrees
Objectively, then he'd have a point but he just said no you can't say objectively because someone disagrees
It's like no, no, no, no. What are useless weird at that point?
Right, right, right because nobody agrees on everything as far as i'm aware
And same thing like again, I have no idea if you guys are familiar. There's a show that's recent called madness
it's by the normal boots group that uh
Just a bunch of youtubers and they they debate games and just talk
They do like a bracket of like which game do you like better right now?
they're doing one on gamecube games and so
People get really mad because they're like they're not being objective and it's like what do you
What what do you want like them to just talk about?
Nothing, but yes, this game is a platformer. This game
Has a lot of people would yeah, I was gonna say this is this is complicated because now it gets into uh
What exactly because let me give you an example
I talk to wolf and rags about the best games on gamecube and I start with
We undo whichever ones we've actually played so I go. I don't know. Uh, simpsons hit and run wolf
Is it is it the greatest thing ever and we go through all the mechanics then we define it's like yeah
It was pretty well made good references blah blah blah. Then I go rags. What do you think and he goes?
I liked it, but I think it's bad
And I go why and he goes I just didn't enjoy it. Oh, yeah
So what didn't you enjoy and he goes I just didn't really like it that much
Yeah
Like objectivity creates a standard through which even if you have or have like if I hadn't played a game if someone just tells me
How they felt about it
Then that's a huge
takeaway from what I could get from it instead of them describing what happens in the game
How it works how the mechanics function, you know stuff that I could understand and grasp even if I have or haven't played it
Let's say um, I discovered your channel today. Uh,
What would make me stay won't be your subjective takes at all
It'll be the all the objective information because you'll just be an information dump to me
And as I watch it
Maybe I get entertained by your jokes and your style and eventually I actually get invested in you
And I just want to know what you feel and think about the new thing that comes out and that would be the
Value I would value the subjective then but at first when i'm just like who is this guy and then you go
Like here's me breaking down the first level in castlevania or something like that. I'd be like, oh sweet. It doesn't even matter
Who he is or his voice or the presentation if the writing is really strong and accurate and well researched or as some people may label it
objective
That's why I don't um, like if I if I watch a youtube about a movie i'll pick red letter media over
Jeremy johns or chris tuckman like any day and it's not even close
But you know the so but if I like to say rags and wolf and fox this year
We're doing a show where they just talk about whether or not they liked a movie all in a row
I'd probably watch that just because I like all three of them a lot
but if none of them
If none of them made any arguments i'd be like guys you could have like, you know
Did a bit of research or tried to think about what it is
You didn't like instead of just going thumbs up thumbs down thumbs up thumbs up thumbs down
If everyone's opinions don't correspond to something that's real
Then like what's the point? Really? Also guys, uh people are saying we're under 10 viewers now. So oh, yeah
We're down to single digits
Luckily, all of our 10 viewers are really really quick with the chat. We're going down with the titanic guys
Those people are us
You know, um cj actually said it's counting down to the end of objectivity. Oh, no
Uh, but yeah, I was just gonna say so like a fundamental thing that I think me wolf and rags certainly sort of stand for is
We want more of um the objective. We want to push more of uh,
evidence-based accuracy research all these different things because ultimately like
Um, it's totally fine to tell me if you liked or didn't like something
I just want to know the specifics or the reasoning all this stuff
Why am I watching your video if i've never even met you?
Uh, because I could just find anyone to say that they did like or just didn't like and then I think that they do themselves a disservice
Just like joseph anderson where they do research and they show you all this really great evidence for why
The ai is not working properly or the level design promotes a linearity in a repetitive
repetitive nature or or the um, the bosses are really poorly designed something like that and then they go
But you know, ultimately, I just don't like the game and that's my opinion and I presented
Everything here is presented as subjective. I just you know, and they're really non-committal and it's like no you've done
You've done all your research. You've showed us all your evidence
Go for it. Tell it tell us that this game is poorly designed
Objectively, like you they fucked up in terms of what the actual purpose of all these pieces of design were you don't need to go
Um, well, hey, man, it's all my opinion just like anyone else and then the next guy in his video is half a minute long
He just goes. Yeah, I kind of like this game. The ai is pretty cool
And the boss is pretty well designed and I feel like it's very open and interesting environment
I want to watch people who have confidence in their positions and can articulate them and justify it
I mean and maybe maybe would be in a bit, uh trying to hold everything to a really high standard here
I just uh, I think that might be where frustration comes from potentially
And it's it's hard too because you also want to make a video that you feel like has a purpose like
Generally speaking. I try to avoid quote unquote just reviews for the sake of reviews
sometimes I still have videos that end up that way, but
It's nice if you have some sort of like
Profound might be a too bit too strong of a word
But like a point that you know, oh make people think oh, I hadn't thought of it that way before
And that's harder too, right? I take home. Yeah
How how that would contradict with trying to be objective? No, it doesn't at all. I'm just saying it's hard
I'm saying it's hard. It's on top of all this. You don't want to make you don't want to make a nothing
You want a bit of variety and discourse because without discourse
We will not survive as a species and we need to put hate to one side and go out there and spread some serious love
I was going to say like i'm assuming you sort of felt either this way or you still do feel this way, but like, um
Joseph aniston said like if you were to be objective the video is going to be boring
It's just going to be a list of facts and no one's going to care and it's like the idea that um
Do you think there's no entertaining way to be objective? That sounds like something a stupid person would say rags with the optics
Yeah, no, I really I think I understand someone who's stupid would say
For example, like if I was describing the the bad ai in ds2 this I I worked hard to make that sequence all very entertaining
But it's all references i'm showing clips and clips commenting on them and you'd be like
I would argue it's objective. I'd like to know what people would say is subjective about that sequence and um, it's
Written it's crafted in a way that's supposed to be entertaining beyond me going the ai is not poorly designed not
Well designed the ai does not know where to go in certain scenarios. They're pathing conflicts. They're
Uh, they do not know how to target enemies moving on to the next section because this is like jesus christ, mate
Exactly
and that's the thing so then
And the joseph anderson did that in his video of the where he did the example of if he made every single sentence in
My opinion in my opinion, which yeah, I think that nobody's arguing for that
I don't actually I don't believe joseph when he says that he's he's he's doing he's doing a bit where he's trying to
Act like this is what it would have to be if this is what you actually get looked at his structure
And he had a bunch of redundancies in that like certain sentences would would reaffirm the subjective element of it
even though he'd already done it just to be like look how ridiculous it is guys and don't you think that
That's not helping discourse at all
To be like being it's very very disingenuous. This is what your team is advocating for look at this nonsense. It's like, okay
thanks
Because uh, he was he was actively trying to uh trying to push the I guess the idea that
Objectivity and entertaining are somehow at odds with each other. You can't be both
right
Maybe he thinks maybe
In his world making good content is too hard. I'm not sure
Well, he's going to be entertaining. He really his content is very very uh
Dry no, no, I was gonna say
I was gonna say I was gonna say like
Rigid but in terms that it that it is like it's literally analyzing like you know
I find what he has to say oftentimes interesting. It's the fucking way that he says it dude
Sure, and I think that's what most people had an issue with I really wish you would pep himself up like get a bit of
I don't know take a drug of some kind before recording
Yeah, because there's a thing right this is a bit of a tangent
But uh, you know whenever we deliver our scripts all five of us here. I imagine we want to sound like we actually give a shit
Yeah, because if you say the god of war came out in
2018 and it was designed by a group. It's like
Oh shit, it's videos an hour through what are you talking about time to go to work again, I guess yeah put in my eight hours
You gotta love you know like inflections like can be everything and you know
This is I guess the point is like that has nothing to do with whether or not you're being objective or subjective
Uh presenting like how it's made is on uh is a show that's been going on how many seasons now
And it's just a guy present like an easy to listen to guy
With good inflection and a good, you know bob and weave to his voice
Just telling you how things are made and it's incredibly entertaining and interesting
I was going to say by the way, have you heard I imagine you would have because you're all about gaming
Have you heard of ahoy the channel?
Yes, so like I would consider him to be possibly more objective than I am with his videos
And uh, he's entertaining as fuck
His presentation and his voice
Like I don't even care what he's talking about. I just just wanted to carry on
I guess it is just how you present it, right?
It's how you present it how you approach it and making sure you're not like
Yeah, and then sometimes sometimes we want to have that that ooh statement that people go
Ooh, but like sometimes that's bad and that does lead to oh, you mean just like a bit of fun
But then someone takes it very seriously
Well, sure. That's that's definitely an example that I like what we were just talking about in my video, but um
but even like uh
Just a very declarative statement. Sometimes we want to drive a point home
we'd say something very definitive boom boom boom like just you know a dot at the end of the sentence, but then
But then people take that and and like you were saying like extrapolate on it
And maybe twist it to not even what you were originally saying in the first place
And so I think where it all comes down to is statement is made and we'll use this as an example because it's easiest one
Somer is not a horror game and then they respond
That is your opinion and what they mean to say is that you're basing that on how you feel you haven't got any
Actual evidence for how genre works. I say and joseph only here's the fact they say it's an opinion and he's like, of course
It's an opinion. Are you are you fucking with me right now?
And then and then they respond it's like well, that's not no, but you said it like it's a fact
You're presenting your opinions as fact when what they mean is you're presenting a subjective
A conclusion that is objective at least to them. That's another conversation about genre
Um, right and you've got no evidence beyond the subjective because he qualifies it by saying it's not scary
Which I don't know if I need to say this but whether or not something scares you is not a definitive
You can't just go. This is not scary
You have to say like it doesn't scare me. I don't get scared by it to say it's not scary implies a blanket statement
so, um, and then but it devolves further and further when I think the
As we're establishing the whole problem is uh all the way back at objective versus subjective
That's where everything starts and how it's qualified what it means
All those things like these videos are getting made and it's um,
I don't know personally. I just think that it's complicating everything even further
It is and then like I was saying earlier too you
You don't want to make a video that that no one wants to watch
So like I feel like if joseph anderson made a video that said hey, I kind of feel like personally this game didn't scare me
very much
People be like what what's the point of this video?
You know what I mean? That'd be the whole video or would that assume they'd be more than that?
But if there was right, right think it would be more than that
Right and and hopefully but I guess well, surely it would it's a it's a fine line. It's a fine line
Because because i've had a lot of people say that to me like if instead of calling it's also the way it's titled
Because I do good game design or the spin-off bad game design and that's just because that's just what i've always called it
It's not some specific reason just right does the same thing and he he
Advocated to me and wolf for more than an hour that you can't say something is definitively bad
It can only be subjective while he has a series that is referring to things as bad writing or good writing
That's always like that sounds a bit. It's like yeah, but it's always subjective. It's like
Okay
All right, and right because that's what a lot of people said is like well, what if if you would just call this
I personally don't like
Mes games and it's like freaking like well, just as long as they justify it go for
Exactly thing. We're on we're actually on
Your team for your labeling but for not not for your reasons. I think
We like it because we're like, oh as long as it justifies it and explains like the framing and the standard while you're like
It's all subjective. Anyway, so still works. Yeah
My view is also like clickability
Yeah, you know what? I mean too. Like it's also discoverability and stuff too
I don't I don't think about that stuff. Honestly, I was gonna say like, you know, you might not that's secondary. It's secondary
Yeah, you do you at the end of the day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
I mean I I get I get flack from my show
You're just another one
Negative youtubers you just want to shit on everything and then I simply just reply. Well, the show is called smack talk
What were you expecting?
When they accused my my unbridled rages of being a rant. I was like, yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's some serious mouth breathers on youtube fucking hell
Yeah, like that fox this guy
Um
I you know bottom line. I I think I agree with with everything that everyone has said here too and
uh
Just kudos to everyone too of like we can have a open discussion about things. You know what I mean?
I do want to say
Thank you for coming on against four people because I don't know if you know who jack saint and eric tax on
But they wouldn't come on unless we kicked off rags. They wouldn't do a 3v2
so thank so
So thank you for having the balls to come on here against four people that were not exactly
We didn't really like your video
Well, that's right, I guess that's what i'm trying to say is like I hope
That other people can see like you can still have constructive talks and and disagree and even
Like openly talk about that and that should hopefully be like a normal human thing. And yeah, yeah, seriously. Thank you
Thank you for taking it. Well, i'm talking you are one of a very
Rare few that will actually come i was gonna say are you aware of anything between me and joseph anderson?
No, no, I I actually had never heard of
this stream
Yeah, he refuses to speak to me
Yeah, I mean, you know, do you know why?
No
Uh, it's because when i've made my first long series that I consider to be like some of my better stuff or best stuff. Uh,
I I I was when I made arguments
I thought it would be an interesting idea to throw like random insults on the end and where i'm from
Some words are a lot less impactful than they are on the internet
Let's just put it that way and so in amongst many other insults, I called him a cabbage at one point, which is very offensive
Um, I called him a massive faggot
And uh, it was very much in joking tone supposed to move right along and at the end of the video
I even say something along the lines of like, sorry if
This is a bit much to to joseph
But you know
I'd still like to talk about soma and um
He heard from a fan that I had called him that and he said that he won't speak to me
Uh as a result
Oh jeez, so yeah
Hey, like we were saying you do you at the end of the day, right? Whatever. Oh, absolutely. Everybody can
I I often do he's welcome to choose to not
Want to talk to us, but I think it'd be pretty interesting to have him talk about this because he's he seems to be much
More stern about it than you are in terms of the whole like he's cited definitions and had many arguments with people about
He seems very holier than thou
Well, it's it's all a learning experience for me at the end of the day like
I'm i'm still learning and I think I am trying to accept more now that it's like I do have an audience
So therefore there is responsibility
Because that's all still relatively new to me within the last couple years
So when I was tiny channel with, you know, less than a thousand subs or whatever
And then it's like well, who cares what I say, but now it's like, okay, you know, there there is some responsibility
I can't just act like there's there's none
so in what way
Uh that if I recklessly
Make massive claims like the persona five example without like
stuff to back it up
How is that?
Like do you think that does damage or I think it'd be encouraging. Um other people to just
with not have uh
quality
conversation
And just dismiss things which was like the whole thing of the video that i'm saying where it's like
Just saying things and then without like actually talking about it or you know what I mean?
Sounds like good reasons to be objective
Well, um, it's I advocate less
Specifically for that more for uh accuracy just just uh every statement you make let it be
Something that can stand something try to like you're trying to convince people that you're correct. Here are my reasons
Here's why I think what I do and it's based on this this and this
And if you have clips and references man gold
Bring on more gold. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but yeah, you know, good good. Good luck to the future
Is there anything else you wanted to um talk about or
No, I I do. I have to run but I I appreciate you guys having me on it was fun
What is um, what is a a valid opinion?
in uh
In contrast to an invalid opinion
I
Mean it's a good question, right? Like we we were talking about thank you very much
In the because in the video I said that of like a valid thing and I I do think I just mean
Backed up but it goes back to like
You know is an opinion more than that like
If you just feel that way you just feel that way
It might be valid to them even if I disagree with it
Um, so some some opinions can be more objective than others
Some opinions can be backed up more than others
Usually I was gonna say this is so semantic but validity would be determined by how accurate
The statements are technically. Yes, I assume like if I said
Uh castlevania on the nest is bad because it doesn't have graphics
Like that's an invalid opinion because your qualifier is incorrect
Yeah, yeah, it it is it, you know depends on the example, but yeah, we would just say wrong
Did really skip over the part where you say invalid valley because that makes things complicated but um
Yeah, no, I um
Just just you could because that's the thing you could be accurate
But you could also be more accurate as in I could show you
n failing hitboxes or I could show you 100
the 100 would probably be much more substantial because
Means it's much more widespread if you manage to collect that amount. I don't know
because it also might come down to what you experienced in that like if we're talking games of like
someone's playthrough of a game will be totally different than another person's and so
even if one person's like oh all these like things that I
I couldn't react to and they you know, they were bad and whatever but then someone else could be like I never
Experience that at all. So what are you talking about? That doesn't make it less real for the person that experienced it
Uh games are weird because it's not like movies where everyone sees the same thing
You know, you you can have a totally different experience that you say that there's so many people who I mean obviously like
You can react to movies differently, but you're watching the same thing. You sound like you're on our team
Depends on the game, doesn't it?
uh
I would say yes, even like you know, because it can affect you different ways like some people, uh, enjoy honey
You know, um, what's like the least game game there is
deer ester maybe
Um
Even as much as I love it like the stanley parable
Well, no even that requires interactivity the least game game would be depression quest by zoe quinn
Oh
Contravation that's just an it's an interactive powerpoint
but yeah
I was just going to say the way you define that was very interesting because
What we tend to say about the objective is subjective is like the objective is all stuff that's taken from the thing all stuff
All stuff is provable versus the subject which is like what it means to you how it makes you feel how you interpret it
like if you know if someone watches, um
Fucking I don't know terminator and then they say like this has really interesting things to say about communism. You'd be like
What?
Then they go like well, you know how the robot is like
Clamping down on everybody and ultimately everybody's the same to the robot doesn't matter if you're an army guy or if you're a random hobo
You'll be killed all the same communism
Yeah
Okay
cool
So yeah
Like the idea of interpretation versus like what's on fucking screen even though some themes are much more provable than others like you get
The last jedi with yoda saying the theme versus you having to interpret what what the theme might be
You know different things handle everything differently
It's just really complicated but still interesting and it seems like you draw that line similarly to how we draw it
But maybe with different ways
Yeah
But yes, uh you you you're in a selection of people that's very small the ones that we've we've tackled and
Wanted to respond to us. I mean I have another one. Okay
When does a leaflet become a pamphlet?
Rags that's philosophical. We can't fucking answer shit like that on a casual stream kidding me rags. I I can't believe you're
Avoiding the big one is water wet
Oh, you know what? You know what snowman is water wet. Do you think yes or no to that?
I'm honestly really offended that you would ask that
Which one
Um, I was actually gonna ask him who he thinks the most inconsistent person in the new styles will be
But I uh, I haven't asked that for foxes yet. Oh, he's gone. He's gone. Is he just gone again?
I don't know. He's got to minister those youths. That's why you see jared or jared. Um, eric and
What's his stupid name jack?
You see eric and jack. This is what happens when we have an actual conversation with somebody rather than sniping at us on twitter
for hours on end
Racist dude and complaining because we won't kick off one of our hosts because it makes you feel uncomfortable
I give as I give what I get, you know
Even despite how much respect I lost for just right and I mean some of my insults towards him have been pretty facetious but
um
it's just the fact that both he and
Just right were able to come on at random times too
And we're perfectly willing to talk to us that says a lot more about them than it does about jack and eric
um
Yeah, that was interesting
And that leads us up to three and a half hours of just about being solely about uh,
Snowman gaming's video and then him coming on man. It's like a repeat of just right. Please do tonaled next
I need something to
Okay. Yeah, we'll do tonaled next
Uh, well, wait, do you want to see the jared video?
Oh, yeah, we can do that. Yeah, we haven't actually had a jared video on it
It's been a very it has been a long many moons
I was gonna say, uh
Voxis who do you think will be the most inconsistent character of episode nine?
Barring kylo because he doesn't count
Think about it if you need to
I'm just thinking
promise there's so many
inconsistencies like
Ah
See, I think they'll try and bring
Finn back on par to be a hero again
because
He was kind of side threat. It's it's difficult because
JJ abrams is now taking the reign again. He's
because jj abrams in
Tfa he set up all these mystery boxes
And then episode eight came along and ryan johnson came opened all the mystery boxes took a shit in them
Put the lid back on and said, ah subverted and completely threw out some of these ideas and concepts that uh,
JJ had set up was about to set up
um
Ray will always be a mary sue. So she's definitely going to be consistent
She's just going to be fucking amazing. The only thing that's going to change is she'll be even more amazing
Because you know, it's the last episode. Um
Carrie fisher will be inconsistent because she's dead
The most inconsistent though, I think poe I think poe will
I think they'll do something with poe. What do you think? What do you think it would be?
Uh, they'll give him force powers and instead of using a tie fighter to fly just literally fly himself
You know with plasters in both hands just flying around at this point. I couldn't give a fuck
There's nothing they can do to save this franchise if anything it's going to be like damage control
I want to ask can I actually change my answer?
No, okay. No
All right, because I want to say because I want to say lando now. I feel like he's oh, that is a good choice
Shit, but he hasn't been established in the other
Wait, wait, wait. What are the rules on this thing? Do we have to own the choice we made at the time?
Or can we all change them? Well, I don't even think it was like established that lando was going
Well, then we can disqualify lando if you want
As it would you know, we just
He's been established as a character before and if he's coming back then I think that makes him fair game
No, i'm saying disqualified so that it's a if if wolf was not aware and he would have chosen it had he known
Maybe wolf should have done his research. Well blackman
Well, I didn't know he was going to be out yet
I'm pretty sure they announced that ages ago before we even started this thing wolf's an evil person. I think shut up
Well, I didn't I didn't realize that he was going to be
Sexual when we started look i'm gonna i'll just say the sexual
I'll just say kylo and lando are both the obvious choices that no one's allowed to pick that's that's gonna be what i'll say
from now, so what's called a pando
um
So, yeah, I mean here we go, I guess like uh, it's been a while here we go again Jared Jared Jared
I like the title of this stream is going to be so much different from the original intention of it
Like once it gets re-uploaded, it'll be like snowman gaming with special guest snowman gaming. I don't know
wearing these beads in some of his recent videos I
Is that like a rosary because it dips down on the also the
Mickey mouse shit really
Ninja tails are kind of it's in the it's somewhere in the room
Um, let's see this the drums are up. Oh my god, there's rain
His hair though, look at his hair man. It's like the mandarin
I forgot how much fun it was to coverage here and
Is that a collar on the bed
Um, oh god, I don't I don't know if I want to know
so
But let's take a look at the bed. Let's notice that the bed you have the two
Like there's two layers of the bedding material. You see like a foam foam layer. Yeah, it's like the foam stuff
Yeah, he took out the foam and put it on top of it. Do you think it's the table again?
It could be a table beneath it. It might not i'm not certain
But he does have white sheets, which is a bowl bold
But you know we have the fish tank is still back there the waste basket
Of course the drums are set up the drums are in there the drums
Um are probably the most fascinating part of the lore in terms of how they deset up and set up their own will
Their own convenience. We we still got the box with the happy and yo-yo's
Oh, definitely. That's an amazing stay another interesting thing
We still have the same cup and it seems as if we have a new edition in the top left
Which is a power ranger's action figure that I don't know
Jared you got a new thing
Well, I don't know it might have just been somewhere else but it's very possible who knows what some
Can you see this?
I got the mouse over it if you've got the stream up but in the in the top right down a bit
It looks like half a mannequin, but the trousers part
Wait, you know what I mean?
I'm looking at it and i'm trying to figure out what what it is
But I would picture it wires draped over something. Yeah, that just looks like wires. It's above the fish tank to the right
Yeah, I I looked at the stream I saw where your mouse was but I don't think that looks like a mannequin that can't really be wires
Maybe there's wires near it. Maybe I don't know what that is. But
Do I mean like you take a mannequin put trousers on it and cut off from the waist up?
I'm not seeing it i'd have to like draw it he makes his videos in glorious 1080
So maybe if you look at them on youtube, it'll be a little clearer the handle some people saying it's a shelf
Yeah, it might be oh, you know what? That's what it is
It's the shelf and the the the fact that it's a slightly different color made me think of it as something else
I'm seeing and it's it's completely different now. I can see it as a shelf
Thank you chat. These things are hard to really figure out even if we're Jared genetic scientists. When are we gonna get 4k Jared?
Yeah, greetings all it is lord genesis here and
Today I just it's a very special
Talk right be able to be able to today's a very special day for me. Um
A thousand subs. I really don't even know what to say
I don't know how to respond to this but all I can really say guys is thank you
Uh, thank you from the bottom of my heart for this
You're all amazing awesome people. Uh, I wouldn't I would rather have no one else but you guys by my side
Really? I appreciate every single one of you. So hold my channel
The swagger level is just too high
Uh, it's almost I can tell it's affecting the ozone layer in my room
There's a layer of atmosphere in this there's a layer of atmosphere that's true. That's true
Do you think like the burned the burn marks on the door? Like they're not burn marks. We've been over this
Well in the jared lore is gonna say in universe in universe it spins
I mean, do you think the fire like the conflagration of 2016 or 2017 or whatever the hell we decided it was going to be
Is is like what caused a hole in jared's ozone layer in his room
And it's been repaired as of a thousand subs
I I guess so we'll only be able to confirm that
He's still got the hollow
Basket in the back. He's got the what?
The halloween pumpkin. Oh, yeah, it's on its side. Yeah
He'll need it for october. It'll be there
This is one of the most consistent tv shows they always have the old characters and the old events landmarks
They're always in the background. Wait a second. Notice his chair also has changed. He's had the new chair for about a month now
Oh, yeah, it's it's a really nice looking chair. Yeah, it's a nicer chair because
I think the first video it popped up in was
Um
Probably
Um looking boogie shows his true colors this holidays
Where's the safe though
Um, it's probably under his bed. It's under the under the table. It's under his foam
It wouldn't make for a good base thinking about it. So do you think he still has those like used q tips on his desk?
Maybe one or two. Well a month ago. He made a video about desk lore and the q tips seem to be there. So
He also has he has a video called
He has a video called quick pipe tutorial
Like a smoking pipe. Oh
Could that be what's on the bed next to the collar?
anyway
anyways guys
There's just almost too much swag. Uh, I have to get like an oxygen tank because it's just
Oh, it's too much
No, but seriously guys. Thank you. Uh, I appreciate you guys so so much
And the fact that a weirdo like me, you know with power ranger dolls on his drawers and
A messed up bed can have a thousand subs
Messed up bed
Jared I don't think that really exactly counts bad, but you do you buddy, you know, just sleep on it
It's a bad man. Yeah, well I said it could happen to youtube, bro
For everyone out there watching this who may be having trouble on youtube. Just
Keep working your hustle man
Just to get over fucking a hundred views over hundred subs
And as embarrassing is that as that is to tell you guys?
I just want you to know that you all have the capacity to be big successful youtubers. It just
Sometimes takes a while to find your niche
Now i'm not trying to brag here and i'm not trying to make it sound like a thousand subs as you know
Like that huge but i'm simply just saying, you know to to get out of the 50 sub club as I call it
It is possible for all of you and I want you to know twice actually this is pretty motivational. I think
Yeah, the 50 sub club that was so so when you got 51 subs you're out of the club
Oh, really? Is that how that works? I I get I well, I I assume based on the group name
You can literally only be a member of it
For the moment that you get that subscriber that pushes you to 50 and no
And then it's a very you run to the club meeting like guys up here. Oh, someone subscribe
Shoot a very very best success for everyone watching that
For everyone watching this i'm sorry guys. Oh my god, you know what? I just realized he can stream now
Oh, oh my goodness you have to get subs to be able to stream
Yeah, you need a thousand subs to stream. I think it was ten thousand. There you go. No, no, it's one thousand
Tell him you should tell him jared. Please stream. Oh my goodness. That's strange. Can you can you imagine like?
Jared efap people doesn't bed milk
How are their bed emojis too
Well, it was
Bed milk's a little different. So it was upset that there was no cabbage milk earlier
That is no cabbage emoji. It's like there are too many. Uh, there are too many earth grape milks
Me I can't really talk today
But uh really though i'm just i'm in shock by all this, uh, it's happened very fast for me
I was you know, it seemed like just yesterday
I was at 50 subs, uh, you know
Making rant videos about buggy two nine eight eights and that was yesterday
Was literally yes, so so long ago. Oh wait, that was yesterday. I still do that actually
But no seriously guys really like this is just this a trip for me man, it means a lot
Now i'm extremely red pilled and i've always
And so I don't expect to have
You know a hundred thousand subs in the future
But I want you guys to know that I realize I do have an opportunity at a thousand subs and I do want to make use
Of that the best that I can stream how many subs I get from that
Well, I don't really know but shit man, even if I could get like four thousand five thousand, that would be super rare
Everyone's subbed to jerry. I'm very happy though where i'm at. Even if I don't get any more subs i'm still very happy
I feel like i've accomplished something
And I will continue to make you guys videos the dankest of all the dank. I will try my best
Um, but yeah, i'm i'm certainly going to make use of this opportunity
I'm gonna try to live stream. I'll try to oh my god. He even says he's gonna try to lifestyle. Oh boy
Wow, that is something else people can like pay him. Thank you. Oh my god. He might actually have a job
For the first time. Oh my goodness. He might like this could
His thing this could this could be his big break
Jared Jared, here's what you gotta do buddy. You gotta set up um adsense and then you gotta start streaming get those super chats
dude
This this could be your thing
I'll try to watch him then like drunken peasants. Oh
Just because you fucking just ran into an easy way, why would you want people to see that?
Wait fucking going after onision that shit I probably thought even happened
That did happen such a weird thing that happened
It's so strange to be in a stream with onision of all people
I told people that I was like so like yesterday
I was on a stream of the drunken peasants and I talked to an easy on and people like what?
What even
Oh videos i've been editing a little bit here as of late
I mean, it's nothing huge, but I have been fooling around with that
um
But yes, I do want to do the most I can
Uh quoting lord genesis to do it. Okay the way that I do it
But yeah, no, um in terms of efap and stuff like that, I just wanted to say this
Like it's been a lot of fun
And I really had a lot of fun
You know talking to you guys and you know, uh memeing out with you guys
But I I think my time with efap is sort of fading off
And i'm kind of just sort of Jared you couldn't be on efap whenever you want buddy
It'll come and go it. It's like a roller coaster. There's ups and downs. I mean, i'm sure he'll his opinion on this will change
It's a seasonal lock. It's a seasonal lock
Yes, he's gonna he's gonna go to his own planet and then he'll come back like to save the day in several memes
And I think it'll draw him back in the comments and then geridians
Let's see, you know
We got another marvel movie coming out soon
Imagine the amount of memes people can make from that once it's available on blue. Oh, yeah. Oh my god captain jared
Marvel's gonna be a thing
Yep, and of course endgame
But I do I wish the best to uh mauler rags
And word of the wolf. I think that they're really cool people and i'm lucky to know them and I do wish them continued success but
Right now i'm just sort of focused on me, you know, i'm doing my thing
And I hope that you guys like whatever I do. But yeah, just realize we love everything you did jared
Everything your best
And uh, you know, I I want more than anything just to have fun with you guys to interact with you
Uh, I love talking to people, you know, just even just to say what's up. He oozes
I don't just want to be one of those youtubers. This guy could run for president. I don't know
That chair by virtue of his already president just got uh the haircut of kim jong-un
See
The telephone head look hold on kim jong-un stole that haircut from jared
Jared was the originator of that and he's the only one who can hold off as effectively as this
And honestly it's offensive to even pretend that everything isn't influenced by jared genesis
Like I mean it does keep him dry in the rain
This is true
It's true. And do you think it like spreads out and solidifies under the rain and he's got his own
Umbrella over his head. It acts as a you know
Area of comfort for airborne mammals as well. That's undeniably important. Can you imagine like a bird airborne mammals?
So bats
Like bats is what you're saying
Only airborne mammals are are bats
I I just realized he could be like rata gas the brown where he'll have like birds living in his hair
Yes, maybe but they'd be bats
Flying mammals aka bats. Well, you can have a flying squirrel
Hold on white white line. They fall. Why does it have to be a mammal though?
He he said flying mammals. So I was like no he did
I didn't realize that holler did. Yeah, i'm i'm saying that his hair is too good for bids. I'm sorry
Like i'm putting out there because mammals are better. Well, hey flying fox bats are are basically
Cads puppy cats with wings puppy cats with wings
puppy cats with wings
Hold on i'm going to show you a picture of a flying fox bat. It's the most adorable thing ever
That's a cute flying fox bat. Here we go. These things are fucking
Retardedly cute. Do you have uh, you have a lot of bats over there in your country?
We posted in in the thing chat
Thing chat thing chat thing chat with the bat the flying mammal thing chat
Um, here we go
Fucking take your time wolf. Oh jesus. Look at him. He's such a cute guy. I don't know
uh
Okay, hold on. I got another one this one
This one you can't you can't say no to this face
Why do you have these pictures of bats don't i'm just i i'm literally just going on google images right now. Look at that
Look at him
he's like
an adorable little
puppy cat
Yeah, I can see it more in second one, but
Why do you keep saying puppy cats instead of kittens?
Because I don't know it makes me sound less gay. Maybe I don't know man
You've got at least
80 percent gay here like I don't know that that's
True, but
Come on
So they that's is it part of the law that the puppy cat bats nest in jared's illustrious locks. Is that what we're saying?
Yes, okay. Okay. I understand. All right, um, there's potential art to be made there
Oh god get beowind to draw a bunch of bats nestling in his hair
And he's like super muscly with the 10 rings of power
Right
Who's in it for like a business? I was just watching a guy i'm not going to say his name
But he was talking about youtube and how like he says
I don't respond to every single fan because you know, if I do that then that makes it just seem like i'm absorbing it
And you know i'm not trying
And it's like dude fuck off, man
If you're making it into a business
Then you're in it for the wrong reasons. It's about having fun and interacting with people dip shit
Yeah, if you don't want to do that, then don't be on here
Sorry guys, that's just how I feel, bro
Thanks again
I'm gonna drop some special videos for you here to celebrate thousand subs
Also going to try to live stream. I'll probably be live streaming pretty soon here
I just really haven't been inspired to do it as of late
Don't worry though. I will I promise you guys that I would
Stay tuned for that. I'll let you know whenever I decide to do that, but uh, I am on discord
So add me on discord if you like i'll leave it link in the description
And uh, also i'm on steam if you want to add me on steam. Oh my god, can we get jared in for me?
Love all y'all
I mean, yeah, if we figure out the right game, maybe a game he likes I don't know Jared left for dead
Peace get left for dead buddy. He indeed has linked this his discord and steam. Absolutely. Yeah
Look at the top right one look at his shirt. He's got cats in space
Everyone go subscribe to jared genesis
How many meme videos
God
Jared so proud of you
This is a strange one
I don't know what to make of this. I am putting it into our thing
Because it could it's just i'm confused by it. Um
What molar and wolf accompanied by rags versus eric taxon and jack saint 2 1 2 tag wwe 2k 19 preview
Hmm
Oh
Oh
Well, they actually said eric as well
They can't see your fans can't see as we get ready for this tag team
Come on michael, you know, I can't answer that look at these teams
They both have what it takes to be the most dominant team
What is eric wearing well at least he's wearing something
Such a showboater just like real life
My hero, oh I feel the power
It's absolutely perfect
It's literally
Oh
This is incredible this is so accurate
Oh my goodness
Oh my goodness
God they got them so accurately i'm curious that'll do us though
Oh, what if what if they bring out jared though?
Did they get someone to like do the voice for that I don't know maybe the game has a built-in name thingy
Huh
Byron how big is this match for these? This is like all across with logic
So while a win will obviously be huge I can tell you that a loss would be absolutely devastating
Given the competition right now a loss tonight would be a huge setback
Yes, I don't fuck it up mauler, I mean you're on the team too well
This is accompanied by rags i'm curious it was a dude with the orange arms and legs
Man everyone's feeling the power
USA USA
What's happened is you I don't know
I've seen you dreaming
Oh, well, I I am bald and I do it again, although my beard is way bigger than that
180 pounds
Actually 201
Thank you very much. Wow. This is just so inaccurate to real life
Byron, what can we expect to see from these two teams here tonight? Michael?
I almost thought it was Geralt for a second absolute clinic in tag team competition. That's how good these teams are
He means Geralt
It's like gerald but with a t
Care why didn't you pronounce his name that way geralt?
Geralt
Geralt
Geralt girl
Oh my god, what's wrong with you world gort? Oh my god. I'm on fire. I love stickers. Oh god, you got like
Wolf on guys. Oh god
I'm david draymond, but it's the did you know that stickers was named after the mars family horse?
It's gonna end like right before it starts
Uh-oh the hats off shit's going down
Yeah, there must be a fair amount of customization in this I guess
You're so big
It's so good
That is a very strange but very wonderful video oh man god eric and jackard perfect
so
Um, this is the thing we're at we need it for hours. I don't know what what we should do here commit to another video
Maybe um try and close out with that donut thing. I don't know
What donut thing? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, we had um, well, I I mean I could eat and stuff
So I have no problem if you want to call it there
Yeah, I mean box is you comfortable with reading the remainder of what you found?
Hello, yes, uh, yeah i'm happy to read that uh, we're not covering the
Sorry, we're not covering. Yeah, we can't
If it's up to you guys up to you wait
Well, the thing is right the other one
We got the plan for today
Anyway was the next one was going to be the the vox video about doctor who and women we could do that
Because it's five minutes 40 seconds
we
apparently, um
Jared wants on right now
Right now. No, we need to have any it should be its own. I feel like it should be its own
But how many times if we tried to set something up and then it didn't work out if we can get him on now
Oh shit, uh, i'm fucking retarded. I just realized yeah, i've got to do all the super chats as well. So
That's gonna take at least a half an hour depending on how much we talk about them. So, uh
Should we do that?
donut finish
Yeah, yeah, let's do that. That makes probably enough sense
And then we'll save the stuff for next time even though the we've got lots planned for what can happen next time on efap
But um, yes, jared get it. We'll still cover these videos. It'll just be
and
I'm pretty open on schedules for efap. So you just let me know when you guys can
Make it jared in chat or
Uh, I don't know
Is he in your discord just well if you can figure out adding him wolf and then you can add him to the chat
If you can do all that while I read oh, yeah, he put his I forgot he put his uh
thing in the description
excellent, um
Okay, so
Jared's temple, oh my god, he's got his own server
Oh great the fucking page is frozen like only the highest level meditations
Um, so i'm not sure what to make of this one. It says rags. Can you tell jared liked his fallout 76 video?
Is that supposed to mean
Jared liked rags video
Yeah, I guess jared really liked uh, I guess jared really liked my follow-up video
I guess that's what they're trying to say and and if that's the case i'm really glad that he did
Uh, not now. I have class. Damn it
Um, at least i'll have the recording later. I love all your guys content mauler
Have you considered having bandit incorporated on efab? He's doing a great series on tlj
I have no idea who that is. But um, I will
I feel like i've seen a couple of his videos before
I'm curious what the uh the series might be
Uh, i'll i'll check it out. See maybe if he's interested. I don't know. What do you think of the endgame super bowl ads?
um
I haven't
I haven't I i'm here's my thing about in-game. I'm not watching any trailers
No footage. I want to walk into this thing cold
In that case, I can't really talk about it beyond saying I really like no
No, it's already ruined. It was no mauler likes it, which means it's objectively good
Here's another couple bucks gotta go back to work and we'll watch later have a good stream and watch memes
Oh there was memes lots of memes. Oh there. Oh
uh
Sid mya civ five should be the game we could do civ
But I feel like if you don't have everybody aware of how civ works and how to play it
It could be cooperative civ against like a super powerful
like enemy maybe
Well, wait no, no because we got to make sure everyone makes it through because
Yeah, otherwise it'd be really boring
Yeah, just like a like meme wars or things. Yeah, robot head
Robot head will eventually happen. He spoke to me on twitter. He seems like uh, he wants to come on god
Baggins isn't jared's discord server
Uh jared get online r a uh, what happened to the no nudity rule? Can we go back to that, please?
I'm assuming they're talking about the uh
The meme nope
All right with the upcoming no nudity is a shitty rule with the upcoming Godzilla film
I want to recommend the best of the franchise godzilla 1954 and shin godzilla 2016
Uh, i've not seen either of them fair enough
Um bayouin made that picture for me. Oh that was in reference to the um
Uh, the jj banks one, I guess that was bayouin who drew that as well
Fair enough, uh, these fan videos never disappoint they've all been great. We've got another another few still left
For showcasing for the next time when wolf is more excited for jared reaching over a thousand subs than jared himself is I know it's beautiful
No, jared has been waiting for this moment for many a month. He's trying to temper his excitement
Okay, jared is online after we're done with the super chats. I'm bringing it up in no matter if you like it or not
Yeah, yeah, let him know. Uh, we'll try and do it quickly. Um
Did you tell him about the 24-hour efap yet?
I I think it may have been discussed on the second part of the jack saint
Efap, but yeah, the idea being that if we reach 100 episodes
I will do my best to run a 24-hour efap and we'll have rotating guests obviously because
I'll try and be the one that actually stays the entire 24 and I don't know how I break it up on youtube
Considering they cap at eight hours. So I'd probably do like a seven seven seven seven
Seven 14 21 28. Yeah
Seven 14 21 and then the you should be split into four
Um, probably but yeah, that might happen but we still uh, I don't know
I don't know that we'll reach episode 100 before the end of this year. So we've got some time to think about that
I missed you guys. Good to have you back. Thank you very much
I hope you're having a blast guys
Oh, I sadly can't watch the stream live question. Could one save the narrative of tlj through a few retcons or would you have to reboot?
episode eight
You'd have to reboot the whole sequel trilogy
Yeah, you gotta go you mean by save the narrative exactly
save the narrative
Save the tree
Uh, but yeah, no, i'd say you need a complete reboot because this is the thing if you made a good consistent movie in episode nine
It's probably going to contradict episode seven and eight. Yeah, man. It's it goes so deep
The rot is just to the core
Hey maula recently heard you welsh i'm from south wales near cardiff. What about you? I mean i'll probably
Do my best to say i'm in wales. It's probably better that I don't yourself tell people exactly where I might be
But no cool cool cool
Uh, lord janet lord genesis versus pewdiepie
I thought you'd probably want to do a fair fight like pewdiepie times 10 or pewdiepie with steroids and um
Given the infinity gauntlet you just put them straight up against lord genesis. What's the point?
Like haven't you seen the meme they made it was not as shaggy at 99 power still gets beaten by jara genesis. So
Yeah
Um, I believe it 100 from creamy sheave. He said he was really glad we were able to get to his video
Of course
Dang I missed the memes. Well, they'll be on they'll be on record. Uh thoughts on broly voice actor getting me, too
Um, I don't know really much of that
I I don't know all of it, but it sounds like a whole lot of bullshit
It's apparently like this voice actor is like a super nice guy and he hugs people at conventions
And some chick was like I didn't want to be hugged
and then
Well, she threw a temper tantrum and now he's fired
And it sounds wonderful
And it's really stupid. Yeah, I don't know anything about it. But uh, i'm sure it sounds like it sucks. Um
I'm worried about you more. You keep mumbling frantically in your sleep saying no not the spam bush, please
No more spam bush here. Take this money for therapy blessings of jared be upon you
Uh, that's a reference to the ds2 series
But thank you blessings of jared be upon you too
Evolved critics portray themselves as academics. Some are actual film students yet their passion of fur art boils down to these get degrees
um
This is the thing. I don't know the context in which it would be relevant to cite your fucking
academic film
learnings
uh in a video outside of when you're just telling someone what your history is
If you were like this film is this this is this and I know this because i'm an uh, i'm a film student
And i've passed every exam so I I know it's true
Like you wouldn't that's not how you'd phrase it. So i'd just be curious for anybody to use it
Your arguments stand completely independent of your school
Got to go now. Here's another five. May the objective be with you and my you my young apprentices
I will watch efap later with great interest
beautiful
Bonsoir from france you beautiful bastards rags. When can we expect a new video? Good to see you back in business glorious doggo
Uh, probably in the next few days. There's gonna be another long one
Oh, there you go, but I need to do some dog bite stuff, too
um
But yeah, it'll probably be in the next uh day or two because i'm
Just about wrapped up with it, but it's just gonna be long. It's gonna be over
Probably an hour 20 hour 30
Um, i'd love to have wolf try persona 5 so you can do a media reloaded type video on it
The writing characters in this game are frustrating
Oh
Yeah, it's japanese
Chin chin chong bing bong long man bad and that was from confucius in 479 b.c
The quote makes sense to me goes on a tablet
Well done steak with mcdonald's barbecue sauce
Go kill yourself
Snowman didn't even get through the first half of the game persona 5 before dropping it like a modern games journalist. Shake my head. Ooh
Well that that would probably inform why he didn't have a lot to say
objectively about why the game was
Faulting if you didn't even complete it. It would be tougher
Um to make like definitive statements
I suppose um
Steak with guacamole and lemon says the mexicano
I mean was it well done steak
Oh
It's me again. This is sam. Il
Question for y'all. It's a hard hitter. Which would be worst way to die being set off fire or eaten by bears
Um
Set on fire. Yeah. Well fire apparently is is one of the worst ways to go really
It depends on how slowly the bears eat you I was gonna say yeah
They tend to go for the jugular because they want to kill you off
So they quickly so they can yeah
But if for some reason the bears were like let's start at the feet and like listen, okay
So here's the you might actually enjoy that if you have so here's well
I'm not
So let's say the bear rips off your leg. That means you're you you only hurt in one place
Right. It hurts like a bitch. I'm sure but you only hurt in one place now. Imagine your whole leg on fire
Yeah, but eventually like your whole body like the the sensory whatever it doesn't fire sin like noobs
Yeah, but yeah eventually
It's been vital and you're just gonna die or you're gonna pass out from like the shock or something
We asked somebody who was
As well, well, you gotta remember this is like how would you rather die so we'd have to talk to an
Unbent bear victim and an undead burn victim
He would have two completely different ideas too
What if a man fell into a furnace head first with a bear dangling him into it while eating the leg
So he's getting both experiences to tell us which is worse
What we really need to do is we need to find someone who
Mauled by a bear and then died and then came back to life and with maul or not maul burned alive
mauled by a fire bear
I hear I I think that it comes down to I think that a bear will kill me faster than the conflagration will yeah and
pain all over
is uh
Yeah, I can't imagine it being fun
Yeah, I I imagine the bear would just like rip my head off and be like, oh well, it's done. But the fire will burn
For a while. Hi maul. I recently directed a friend who likes the last jedi to your channel and he realized his mistake
Thank you for saying
We saved another soul
Uh, joe's fannison apologized for his fallout 76 review length. Wasn't it only an hour?
It's like a I haven't watched his video because I just found it said video but
Let's just check for uh, you're sorry. It's an hour and five minutes. What the hell?
Oh, come on. Mine was two hours and 35 minutes
There were things I didn't even talk about
Use system shock elevator music for the next elevator music moment, please
No, it has to be the same every time the beautiful god people are putting fire bear in the chair
Two educated men watching dogs bark at each other that yeah, that was a wonderful moment. What's better cherry flavor or blueberry flavor flavor?
Flavored what?
That's that's the that's the part that's philosophical that he's asking from a fundamental level of uh, which which which are better
So so what was it blueberry and what else cherry?
Blueberry, I think I'd pick blueberry
Blueberry or cherry. Mm-hmm. I'd definitely pick blueberry
There you go. Pineapple pizza is culinary heresy agreed
Which would be worse your dad dies and then your mom gets remarried to quinton reviews or your mom dies
And your dad gets remarried to movie ball
Uh, well movie bob made me quit efap for the night. So
I'd say that would be worse. Would you rather quinton be your mother-in-law or movie bob be your father-in-law?
I would rather them both die. Honestly, but wow harsh
um
Fire beer milk
Fire beer milk, it's spicy
Uh, so I mean if I had to be chosen to be related to one of those two it would be quinton because I feel like I could
Argue him out of his insanity while movie bob seems to be so far
Maybe you've become friends. You could you could play catch with him play catch with your old man quinton
It's like really emotional and happy throwing it back and forth just because i've really enjoyed spending my time. Oh, thanks
He goes like you dropped the frisbee dad. Well, I guess just go along son. Oh, by the way, I really fucking hate trump
You're like dad. No
Dad we talked about this. We just want to play catch
I fucking hate trump. That's it. I'm gonna beat your mother actually
Who's more likely to turn you into a transgender quinton or movie bob?
movie bob definitely
Sorry, it's just it's how it works. Well, they gotta wipe out our toxic mess rags is like a weird cat
That's a super chat
Well, you can go and fuck yourself, too
Hey wolf, how is your book going?
It's going
No one ever asks why it's going
Hey wolf, why is your book going?
I because I can't stop writing it. Why is your book going?
I just answered that I didn't hear
Because I'm on a philosophical level. I can't stop writing it. I don't know. I feel obligated to finish it like you're addicted
I
Are you like the the like the numbers lady?
I can't stop writing the numbers
Reference from the movie from nicholas cage knowing knowing the movie from nicholas
Yeah, the movie from nicholas cage. Oh, you should have just gone with the black ops campaign. Not that
cage
I know what you're talking about though. I saw knowing
Uh more why do mom and dad fight that's because they're they're both horrible people and they only live to fight
That's that's the easy answer pineapple pizza milk god
The last jedi two will be the greatest standalone sequel ever conceived by man
I employ will to learn how to art the last jedi two. Could you imagine if they called episode nine that would be so funny
It's always someone in the chat
Someone in the chat said i'll do you one better. Who is your book going?
Um wolf and rags keep arguing it's hilarious. How long till mr. H reviews is on
mr. H reviews
Is that somebody anyone knows
I've never heard of reviews. I feel like it's referencing something I should know. I think I think i've seen him. Oh, he's
173,000 subs
Uh, I I don't know him unfortunately, but maybe one day if he's interested
Uh, also wolf. Do you like edward buck nathan filian in halo and have you read his books?
Um, I like him in odst. I don't like really anything about
About what you cut out
I liked him in halo 3 odst halo 5. He's the only redeeming quality to it and the books with him and are terrible
Well, there we go. A wax game has said tackle movie bulb again. It's like I don't know man
It literally killed wolf. We did that. I like it legitimately unpleasant to cover him
It was giving me a headache
Yeah
Bull crap. You can't watch videos you agree with
Can we agree that rags is efaps gavin?
What's that? Well, does gavin mean like I don't know is gavin like secret codeword for extremely intelligent and handsome?
Well, here's the thing. Are we talking about gavin from like rooster teeth or gavin mckinnis?
What would it be in reference to rooster teeth?
Wait is gavin the the weird I just know that there's a gavin
And they're at least I think there's a cap in there. Oh here
Let me let me take a look gavin rooster teeth and rags
The cat was a human turned into a cat and the big burger is a way to check stats. It's kind of goofy. I know
Gavin free from achievement hunter
Oh
I don't watch achievement hunter. So I haven't watched it in a really long time
I don't even remember which ones were which I guess they're doing better than machinima
Well, yeah, I think everybody's doing better than machinima if they exist
Uh, well, if you should seriously consider reviewing venom after aquaman, I found it much worse to sit through please lord
It's pronounced venom praise lord genesis and shout out shawn ranklin
Shout out shawn ranklin. Yeah. All right, shawn ranklin. Please don't be like a nazi or something
shawn ranklin is the guy who uh, he makes a lot of the
The montages of wings of redemptions clips. Oh
So the joke is that people shout out shawn ranklin to piss him off and that he quit screaming
Uh
Just got paid today. So here's my tithing to the apostles of jared. Thank you very much
Oh, yes, everything in service to lord jared wolf. Have you gotten past the eye of the world yet?
I've always thought the story improved greatly in book two great series to have in front of you
Yeah, i'm
Uh towards the end i'm like in the last hundred pages of the great hunt
I like it
Well, there you go
Uh, just saying thanks for inspiring me as I blog as
At do as I speak not as I say
I wrote 8k words on tlj's character badness in 14 days of a christmas
beautiful
You guys seen star wars the third gathers backstroke of the west yet the best always film hands down
Might make for a good april first efap. Maybe we've been asked that on efap before
It's something I need to see but i'm not sure what capacity maybe an audio commentary we could do for that considering
It would probably be copy strikes heavily. Yeah, you could probably do the holly. Uh, the holiday special
Would that be copyrighted?
No, it's it's archived. Um, because disney doesn't own it because it was fear. I don't think anyone wants to fucking
It
Even george lucas is like I didn't
Yeah, yeah, but it's on youtube. So you can find it on youtube and that's all there in all its
Glory. Yeah. Yeah, let's do it. That's we could do that
um
Bullet sponge enemies cough the division cough. I never played the divisions. No, I
Yeah, it's the thing that prevented me from actually finishing the game because once the enemies took like 16 magazines to
Actually kill I was like this game sucks. Yeah
I mean the stories are already pathetic, but I mean the the world was ugly
It was not fun to play. I thought the the world building was great in that post
I'm talking about the visuals like you compared
Compare it to all the e3 downgrades. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that was all
I remember that. Yeah, what's this bullshit. They didn't have to lie about it
I mean it was actually in my opinion a worse game than destiny
I didn't play the first I haven't played either so
Oh, don't don't just don't yeah, the division is just the most bland flat lifeless worthless game
Ever I can't even believe how they can see much rather like an insane number of enemies that were easier to kill
Like like vermintide
Where they're just waves of them coming at you and you just fight them off and fight them off instead of like a fewer number
Of enemies that you just pour damage into what I wanted was a good story and the game was not
That it was only capable of doing this like oh, hey, we recreated new
Good for you. I don't care
It was very uh incongruent like
You're you're shooting people point blank in the face and they're wearing a hoodie and it's not even like a kevlar hoodie
You're you're shooting gangs in the face. Yeah, like you you actually like dump like a hundred bullets and
Yeah, don't die and it's really stupid and they'll hold their guns sideways. So you really want them dead
But uh, yeah, the division was quite disappointing in really terrible
Um, uh, yeah from skellington. He said I wish efap gaming would not interfere with efap
Um, we've only we've only had two though. Yeah again to clarify it's not taking over
It's just something we'd like to do when you know, sometimes we're like, you know
It'd be cool if we could just goof around for a bit instead of uh, yeah
We don't cancel efaps to do efap gaming because that's not
That's not actually that's not a thing that happens
It's not like we we come together and say when are we free?
Are we going to do an efap or an efap gaming?
And no that one it doesn't come at the expense of the other I promise
First console is a ps2 live ratchet and client games like hupa. Excellent choices
Very really good games. I wrote an essay for a professor on why objective should be in art
I also posted in the mauler subreddit I plan to write more so any feedback would be appreciated also making memes on jack to post
well wonderful and
Yeah, um, there's a lot of people who will probably help you out in that subreddit. It's been very um, it's very interesting to see it
Grow because uh, I saw it when it was literally like the one guy who made it and he was just posting things on it
But now it's got like quite an active community
There's even people posting there who really don't like me to try and get um a sort of
perspective on on
Uh, I don't know conversation about my stuff
So you should probably find lots of people who'd be willing to sort of add into that but uh good stuff, man
question for wolf
I already spoke to rags about this, but what is your opinion on metro exodus going over to the epic game store?
Oh, it's so stupid. I mean it's already it's great
Yeah, I mean the epic game store has just a myriad of issues that a lot of people have pointed out
But the the problem I have a lot aside from like the fact that it was available for pre-order for like the past year
So it's already stupid
Uh that they would take that away. I mean the epic game store. Yeah, you're going to get a higher cut but
Very few people want to use that platform. I don't want to have to
Choose between 80 different platforms to play my games
Here's the with when it comes to like i'm fine like steam should have competition
but the issue is that
Epic store doesn't have any reason to be there other than them, uh than them essentially paying off a company to make
exclusive games for them
Yeah, and look so many features that steam has and um, one of the big issues is that
They leave it up to the developers of the games whether or not they want to allow like reviews
Like that's fucked up
Yeah, and you know, here's there is a way you could have done this like uh,
Soft games still open the steam
Which is nice. Um
But they didn't choose to do that. They chose to shaft everyone and put it on this stupid like oh a year later you
steam
Well, I mean the developers response to it was really bad, too
And it's a really uh crying shame because dimitri lukovsky is the one who actually wrote the game this time
Um, or at least had a good chunk of input
Um, and I really like his stories
So I was really I mean i'm still eager to play it. I pre-ordered it
So I still got it through steam but and a lot of little things go a long way
Um, there is a game that just released apex legends. That's on the origin store and it's oh, yeah
I'll play it. Um, but it has an interesting option where you can link your steam account and it automatically puts all your friends list on origin
So that when they're online, yeah
Um, so that's that's like an excellent thing and that little thing goes such a huge way
Of finding all of the people that you already have as friends on a new essentially platform and playing with them really easily
That's the kind of thing that they need to do
It's just but steam offers so much so much that just isn't just game selection
But friends and messaging and voice chat and reviews guides built-in workshops
Sales events all sorts of crazy stuff that steam offers for all its problems
but
Epic can't compete with that and they're doing that. I don't want competition on the basis of exclusivity
That's one of the reasons I hate consoles
Mahler get apex legends. It's free and all three of us can play it. So actually really um
We think I need that gaming for that or just in general
I'd say in general too
I mean you should play it but
The uh, the spawn camp said the next efap adventures will introduce wolfbot
I'm pretty sure the fap adventures is being made by
I don't know if that's the same guy
But I mean it would be interesting to see how that would be implemented some form of what?
Like narrative where wolfbot comes in every once in a while to fuck everything up kill everyone. I can see terminator being used
Maybe I don't know
Uh calm stay to watch. We're looking forward to seeing this on moolah. Keep on efap and hard boys. Oh, yes
The earth is a gay donut true if the earth is round then why does it hurt when I pee see
Um that's because you have kidney stones
That's I don't know. He could have some sort of a
Sexually transmitted disease
Thanks to the will be or maybe your piss is just fucking oh it is
It's really thick and rich
It's like sludge
Yeah, if I was gonna breath
Just drink more water
Yeah, and you know just don't stop peeing if that's what's happening just stop it
Um efap has been a breath of fresh air life has been very mad lately
So having this has cheered me up a lot. Thank you so much. By the way, when will wolfbot milk be made a thing?
Oh no
Is they need a robot a wolf in a milk emoji in chat?
I think they there's probably those molly your unbridled rages with the soundtrack of my honeymoon in september
Rags explain why water is wet wolf i'm waiting for aquaman
You're trying that's like you're telling me to explain you something that isn't true
Which I don't think I can do from like a principal standpoint
So I'll have to i'll tell i'm gonna have to take a hard pass on that one
And uh, is there anything you want to say about aquaman wolf?
Uh, I did a little bit of work on the video. It's gonna be a long one. So I don't know
I'll be out
You can't say that old games or nest games are bad
There are a lot of bad nest games, but I don't know if most newer games are any better
Look at rags review of fallout 76. There are good nest games
I that's what that's why we might check out that video from
Her snowman sometime in the future just to see what his breakdown was because um
Yeah, I think I would argue a couple of the nest games were actually pretty good
And uh, yeah
There's plenty of examples of modern times that it's not the idea of
If you're old you'll be bad if you do you'll be good
It's like that's certainly not uh, I don't think anyone's gonna make that argument
Anyway, ashtag jayden genesis if god wanted us americans to use the metric system
There would have been 10 apostles instead of 12
That's true
Uh celsius like listen if english was good enough for jesus, it's good enough for me. True
Celsius sucks because long man bad fahrenheit sucks because orange man bad kelvin rocks because meme magic
There you go
Aquaman just saw it. I don't think I care about movies anymore
I told you not to watch it guys. It's a terrible awful. No good very bad movie
I I also just saw aquabad who should be called landman in this movie and I agree with wolf
I don't understand why so many people like it
Well because they're really delusional stupid people
It's just stupid new lore edition wolf is now mecha wolf rag is is actually blind
That is why he wears sunglasses probably other reasons too in my opinion
I see using the force
Well, you officially have 69 videos. Oh
Oh interstellar marines. He did it. Okay the way that he did it. Jared genesis. Jared genesis
Oh, we should get him to review interstellar marines
Don't take this wrong, but can jared read
He he's got some books like remember he's got all those storybooks and then he's got that like yeah
But they all have pictures in them, but not the catholic church one
The catholic church one the by remember no, no, no, no, there was like some random
Book he had that was like the deception of the catholic church or some shit
Uh molar is an undead abomination or car if he's a car that would make him a transformer of some sort in my opinion
Fair enough. I like to smoke fags satin hussein 2019. I don't think you could have said that in 2019 because he's been deaded
for a while
Here's some money to worship sla nesh
sla nesh
Sla nesh sla nesh. Oh the chaos god. Oh
Okay
A friend of mine said reality how we perceive it is actually subjective because it has to pass our senses and be processed in the brain
To create representation thoughts. Yeah, that's the worldview thing. They're not wrong. But at that point you can't say anything definitive ever
Because everything could be anything
No, this is the whole prove that we're not in the matrix right now do it prove it go on do it
Do it. Don't do it. That means it's true. Finally got a chance to catch an efap live
Don't let your unjustified hatred go unchecked guys, of course
Hey molar. I made an efap video meme was wondering what's the best way to send it to you
Love your videos comment for the rest of the tfa review
Uh twitter at me on twitter and I should be able to see it
Wolf are gay got him
True, I would love to have you on a live stream with my friends
Uh, I I mean I don't have no idea who you are. But sure. Why not? We'll be there
Uh have some van wilder donuts beautiful agreed rags first di sucked is my first memory. Oh
Oh, that's not that you can't say aw to that. Oh
That's a very bad thing
Stop it. No, it's not the first memory you had the first memory you had
That's not good
The first memory. Okay. Do we need to get some sort of like intervention going on i'm actually yeah
How did that happen? Did you have do you fall down? That means that the dick woke him up
It brought him into the real world. Yeah, there's ways to interpret. Okay. What if you had amnesia during sex with your
male partner and then the first memory was the um
The activity itself, you know, that's that's fine. Really, you know consent was there
Well, some people get their memories back by getting a severe blow to the head. So is was that you?
a literal glow
I think I think that might we'll have to we'll have to just check the the footage because i'm assuming that came from you know
The very relevant evidence. Um pressure
Precious crystal fox boy said if god doesn't exist, why do I throw gays off roof in his name atheists?
That's a pretty that's a pretty compelling reason hey boys
I was wondering if you've played star wars empire at war specifically the thrones revenge mod. Love to play
I have not love to watch you play it. That's the um, the rts star wars game, right?
Empire I haven't played it in
forever
But I played a little bit of it at my friend's house like when I was a kid
I played it for like five hours on a stream a few years ago and I liked it
But I didn't continue and I remember there's like a clip somewhere on my channel where i'm
I send all units to go kill something and vader
Is amongst them and you just like start spazzing out and then he just walks away and away from the whole battle
And I was like vader. What are you doing?
You should tell the professor who sent this first
Super chat love all you guys when I have a discussion with rags on resident evil series. Oh, that's so that's so that was james
More that's why I clarified. All right. I've only played but just so you know, i've only played
four five seven
The resident evil 2 remake
No, thank god. He was he was back and forth with you about resident evil 2. So he probably wants to talk about that
I mean it was isn't it's so far
I mean right now though what you're saying is
Well, I I need here's the thing. I have to play resident
The problem is I really would rather play other games
Uh, the world is a grape covered in life milk
Beautiful
Jared's 1k subs video is up and we covered it
I love your 476 video rags, but I think your 10 hour dark sword series is better also is fringy ever going to upload again
Yeah, I want him to
I'd like him to I like his content. I really like his try to encourage him
I don't know what's going to make it so that he does one day, but uh, we'll keep pushing for it and uh
Yeah rags dark sword series is fucking awesome. I loved it. It was such a great game. I loved every moment of it. No
Uh goose the cat could be a breakdown character from captain marvel would would you be okay with the capping instrumental in the takedown of thanos?
I think they're talking about the trail of captain marvel with the cat and uh,
I don't see how it couldn't be instrumental for taking down thanos that needs to happen. I would say because
You know, it's a setup. Why would there be a cat if it's not going to take down thanos? Can you explain that?
No, you can't hey snowman serious respect for jumping on the stream to engage with these guys
I'll appreciate people who are willing to challenge their ideas. Yep
We definitely let him know that it was appreciated and who knows maybe he'll come on sometime as an actual guest or
We'll see going forward. It could be interesting
Uh, hey, I made the music super chat. Thanks. The answer rag. I'll email you tomorrow with some of my music
Stay as great as you are guys. Oh, there you go
I will do my best to continue being amazing
Mola, I see you two playing dead by dale. I hope you're having fun and success in the lunar event
Oh, I am i've nearly got the the nine, uh, the nine coins in the event
I like hill billy is my favorite killer and I play as bill from left for dead. So is my favorite survivor
That's the in case you wanted to know you guys have a favorite ghibli film
probably
Spirited away or house moving castle. They were my two favorites
Spirited away is the only one i've ever seen i've only seen one and it was princess monon. Okay
Well, uh the one with the tentacles
Oh, I love that one. That's my favorite
There's so many reimaginings of that scene. I love it
Have any of you seen the korean revenge film old boy?
I watched it a couple of days ago and I highly recommend it. I
I would hazard because I watched y master's video on it, but I haven't seen the
Uh your movie sucks video is actually quite good
Covering old boy in the really bad remake and it's it's a good comparison of where it went went wrong
Um, but oh boy, yeah, it's a classic. I like old boy. Yeah, I saw it. I liked it
I saw the remake and it made me ill. Um, and then where i miss his video helped
uh
Sort of fix that. Um
So yeah, it was a cool film. Uh the weird alien rhino thing that bilbo milks is my favorite addition to the mcu
don't bloke
What would you do if let's let's say poe becomes aware of ray's sudness because he starts noticing a pattern and he starts
Outstanding her own impossible missions and tasks that she obviously completes
That sounds like a tv show and it'd be hilarious
That sounds like episode nine like he just he's like ray eat that planet and she's like a frank
Game except with ray. Yeah
He's like jump into the salak pit do it
How do I get people to watch my meme video, uh, just
Throw them onto twitter and then I can we saw it. Oh, is it was that it was that? Uh, jack and eric won
Wrestling was really funny. Just still on screen that beautiful
jack right there
typically represented
Uh new efap just in time for four hour train ride I have tomorrow i'm saving this to watch on moolah tomorrow during my commute
But I appreciate you. Thank you
Did you check out the spectacular spider girl on tumblr tumblr yet?
You were drunk when I mentioned her on the last efap gaming also, would you do audiobooks?
So I have no idea what the spectacular spider girl on tumblr is
Uh at this moment and as for audiobooks
I don't know if i'd be able to get the time because I basically anytime i've got free to work or create things
This just goes into my videos. Like if someone wanted to hire me for audiobooks, i'd probably be like, um too busy
But maybe one day. I don't know chuck tingle book
Yeah, found it in my book by my own but as read by morda. Oh and and someone said also any thoughts on apex legends rags
Love it. He loves it. I
Legitimately have a once when when this stream is over i'm gonna go eat and sustain my body
And i'm gonna go play it with friends. Like I really
Really enjoy this game. Mm-hmm. I I don't really like battle royales, but this is the first
It doesn't feel like a battle royale. That's thing. It feels like it feels like a like a tdm
Game and the ring is like an afterthought. It's not like oh
The ring is coming
And you have the only thing I don't like is that the the character designs are kind of stupid looking
Yeah, the character designs are kind of meh and their lines are really cringy
Yeah, but they're so easy cringing
A unique way and at least like they're really easy to just like blot out
Yeah, but they don't actually affect the game
Yeah, it's just flavor and at least they're all kind of fringy in their own way
But they're well, they're well voice acted. It's just the writing of the characters is like
No one says that
Um make jared bigger than pewdiepie
I I will we'll try
Uh all praise to his holy word, please get jared on for left for dead efap gaming
The thing is as far as I can tell we're actually going to be trying to do something pretty difficult on left
We finally do that on efap gaming so we're going to want a fourth who's probably good at left for dead
um
Are you questioning jared's left for dead?
And after after playing left for dead with sargon because he's across the pond as well
The ping really does affect the like that's why I bring it up
It does affect the ability of someone to like hit things and react to things who was hosting and who was joining
He was hosting so I was able to get about 130 150 ping
Yeah
So that would if that that affects
Like bashing zombies that come up to me hitting them while they're moving
That's gonna be awkward
So we could beat like advanced
But if it's tougher than that we'll practice before we stream it probably because we wouldn't want to have people watch us fail
Over and over again. See if we can actually consistently do something about it. I guess
Um, but yeah, no, uh, we'll we'll figure something out poor tosspot doesn't even know what's happening half the time
He does he chooses when to speak
Yeah that in dementia
Yeah, let's look at the part of it
Part one of the fight is out
Don't know what that's referring to. Oh, that's the uh jack and eric fight
Oh, right. Oh, there's gonna be parts to this
Apparently, okay
I love the idea of efap nine writers literally writing ray just like saitama from one punch man
Wouldn't that aid the movie's entertainment value if they were fucking self-aware sure
It'd be great. I can kill every enemy with one boulder
And hey voxis disobedience was a good film. I like the look of it
Yes, good uh cinematography, yeah
I think you could save holdo my making her stressed out and suspicious that everybody
Because they're the last the resistance of possibly the republic, but they have to show it
There's so many ways you can fix her. There's so many throwaway lines. They could have done
But we got they already fixed it. They got rid of her. Oh
Can firebears tell the future?
You're gonna have to bring her back
But like have her head like stuck into her body where she smashed into the front of the ship
So she has like her neck as an internal organ
I wonder if you get it at first time watching the movie. I expected it to reveal that she was going to be a part of
The first order
I was like it'll make this film make sense if she's a part of the first order
Um, but yeah, can firebears tell the future that's that's a question for jay. I'm afraid
Last time you said a few days rags. It was like two weeks. Are you sure it'll gonna be a three two or three days?
No, I look I I mean I
Every time I think hey, this will just take me a little bit
I just do more and more and I just keep adding on to it. I keep making it
So I just keep I just I can't stop myself
That's why you get fucking video game reviews that are two and a half hours
I can't stop here. I have to keep going
Uh, apparently the only thing that comes close to the same amount of pain as being burned alive is giving birth
Oh well
I doubt oh shit
Kidney stones is worse than giving birth if you're passing kidney stone that hurts more and that's and i'm i've spoken to women
Who have had that's also kidney stones?
Yeah, I was gonna say not to mention the worst a baby's like a weird kidney stone
The worst of tooth ache and the worst of back ache can be insane. Maybe it's a weird kidney stone
Yeah, baby's like a weird kidney stone. Oh my god
So I guess since we're talking about pain. I remember when my my father passed his kidney stone that
Won't be forgetting that he had to have this like vietnam stare
From shooting a a block of calcium out of his dick. Yeah, a thousand yard pile vietnam style
Um, they told me had a very sore appendage was his worst
Pain, I think i've ever been in and well, maybe not pain
But immense discomfort was the one I had I had a really bad case of food poisoning
A couple years back from eating some bad
Crab cakes to this day. I cannot eat crab cakes because they make my stomach turn because it brings back memories
Wow food poisoning can be no
Joke that will fuck you up. I had uh a tooth that went so bad
Like it had uh, there was an infection. Um, and the pain was so bad. I started vomiting from it
It's the worst pain i've ever had in my entire life
Um, jesus. I don't know how to explain to someone else. I just be like it was the pain was so
uh
searing and
Felt like it was coming from the inside of my brain
But uh, I just vomited as a reaction. Like I brought my body was like I don't know what to do
I'm just gonna try this
um
Yeah, uh, there's lots of things that deliver pain. This is all true
Just let you know youtube does not cap your live streams on the live archive amount at 12 hours
Uh, isn't it eight? I literally googled it live, uh, and it said eight. That's why I went with eight. I don't know if it's
more or less
Wolf, were there any specific games you want on steam or another launcher after this chat? I think you've got enough for a triple a
Um every game that is exclusive to consoles there was a guy who donated and he said he wanted
To get you a specific game that you already had and then I said that I would uh figure out what game you actually want
He wanted to get me a game. I already yeah
I think he didn't know that you had it already
So like if you find a game on steam that's like, I don't know 60 or whatever and i'll gift you it if you can
Oh, hold on. I got I got a thingy here. I'll look at my wish list
A lot of people have recommended spec ops the line and it's six dollars right now
Well pick some and i'll get that as well. Like what what what is something bigger?
I don't know. I haven't thought about this
Fine, just keep it in your head
Uh, oh kingdom come deliverance those two there we go. Okay
And um
Um, yeah, they said have a deck of shadow on
Uh, I would totally invite him. I don't know if he would be up for it, but he made um
A few a couple well a initial take on the predator movie and then a full review on it. He's he's very entertaining
Um, i've got I got games on my wish list I forget about can fire based of a tale's really good
What i've heard the ghost of a tale's really good. Oh and played it
What can I say
Box no, that was it. Oh, no, I thought okay. Oh my uh, can fire bears evaporate rhino milk
Uh
Sure
I don't know man
Can we is that definitive? You'd be careful that fire bears evaporate rhino milk. I'm gonna say no
I was gonna say I think the rhino milk would douse the fire bear even if it's just a droplet too
Because the rhino milk is powerful. I mean it's yeah, that's potent. That's um
It'll get you when I said when I said rags was gavin
I meant he'll say something that sounds really stupid, but it turns out to be correct more often than not
I feel about that rags. Yeah. I mean, I feel like that's I mean that's pretty
Yeah, i'm not gonna argue with that. All right, then big fan of you guys and way to go
But then yeah you explore way to go charrett more and wolf. We all know rags plays dnd with sargon at al
But do you two have an interest in tabletop role playing possibly efap tabletop gaming?
I have no history of it whatsoever. So I don't know if i'd like it that would be interesting
But I don't know if they're into it. That would be it doesn't really seem to be my thing
He likes really bad
uh games about aliens and colonial marines and interstellar marines all that sort of thing and spec ops and
all these
Bulgarian people
Slinging the swords at each other. Please take my money and don't play apex legends
Don't support ea when we've nearly permanently crippled them. No. No, but it's free
Here's why this is important guys. The reason that we shit on activision ea
The reason that we do this is to get them to change. It's not to destroy them. It's to get them to change
And if they start to do things that are good
If they start to make games or help make games that are good and they start to make quality products, that's good
That's what we want them to do. Yeah, I would say get apex legends because a it's free and b. I mean
That's kind of like what we want
We want them to make games with yes, we want more games like apex legends
We want more games like that and i'm saying that as someone that doesn't even like battle royale as a genre
This is the first one i've actually liked. Yeah
I mean like the idea here is and plus if you send the message that even if they make good stuff that you like
You're still going to you still want them to fail and you're still not going to give them money
Then they definitely don't have any incentive to change
But you think ea is looking at their stock numbers and
Activision blizzard's looking at their numbers right now when they're going. Yep, we're just going to carry on like normal
I mean who would you rather support activision who's going to charge you three bucks for a smiley face reticle in black ops 4
or
uh apex legends of free to play a game
That's it. And besides respawn. They're the guys who make call duty. They made titanfall
Titanfall 2 and this game is legitimately really good and I want them to succeed
so
They said that they are working on titanfall re soon. So
As long as there's not enough no
Serious meddling and as long as ea actually releases it
like not between two other huge games
Uh, it could be really good. Yeah, this is I think we're at a point with the I think um for those of you
who don't watch heelverse babyface good channel, um, I
Agree with him when he says things like this is kind of the point
People have been saying that this kind of uh industry is not sustainable
Because again, like battlefield five comes out
sells 7.3 million copies and it undersells
It's things like it's things like that. Like how do you how do you keep a market going that demands these kinds of numbers?
and then you have
Is like the idea this is kind of the this is the industry getting its um, it's just desserts
I guess this is thing. This is the point where it all starts to catch up with them
And we don't want like I don't want
Like I would rather ea turns into a good company or a bearable company
Then they just disappear and die because we kind of I mean it's it's not bad to have big publishers that can
make titles that
AAA or indie studios can't do
you know
um, so
Uh, I don't mean to just like sort of change the thingy, but wolf needs to see this. He'll he'll love it. Um, go for it
It's an adorable jared with a little bat sticking out of the drums back there
They even got like the super detailed necklaces
Yeah, it's from uh, the pink neckos for uh on twitter. But uh, yeah, you did a lot of the cute droids
I really like that. I like the blinds because it's I like how he did the blind
Yeah, it's good stuff thanks dude, um new sub and dropping a deuce in your stream beautiful rags is a mirror luca doggo hybrid
I
Google that and then i'll get back to you mirror luca. I assume that's how it's pronounced. Mira luca. It's a
It's a race from
Ascension species that existed in the galaxy around the time of the clone wars
All right
Uh, I got seven mac 11s about eight
38s nine nines 10 mac 10s the shit's never ending
You can't touch my riches even if you had mc hammer and they don't have eyes
Them three five seven bitches biggie smalls the millionaire the mansion the yacht the two weed spots the two hot glocks
That's how I got the weed spot shot dread in the head took the bread and the lamb spread
Lil garti got the shawty to your body. Don't resist. That's two donations in one
So I guess it's lyrics from somebody. Thank you. Eric. Okay, steward by the way, not the other eric
Battle fleet gothic armada 2 any of you or is void combat too nerd for you guys
I've never heard never heard of the game
Okay
But yeah, we're nearly the end now, um, that's the exact reason why I want to have a discussion
You haven't played pre resident evil four it would be an interesting talk coming from someone who hasn't played those and for one
Who has played some of them that's from james to rags
sure
Uh, thanks for the hours of entertainment gentlemen and dog
I am happy to see objective in analysis of art artists used to be artists sans requiring talent and practice subjectivities all too often
a cover for laziness
Agreed
Avp interstellar marines egap. I asked egg a shadow, but he said he's too busy. Oh, okay
I mean i'll still try down the line. I guess apparently the mouse is okay with ea star wars games
I heard the opposite. Yeah, I don't know what's happening with that specifically. Um,
Didn't they cancel titanfall three as soon as apex was released?
No, that's something that a bunch of idiots started saying because they just assumed that but respawn literally said I think it was a matter of
Days ago that they're going to be starting titanfall three work
I because I heard that there
That this game was made because there wouldn't be a titanfall three
So that's why it has a mix of familiar and older stuff
I've heard conflicting things about it
I mean most of the people that i've seen say that are just people that don't actually have any sources for it
But i'm pretty certain that
Uh respawn literally confirmed they're going to be working on
Three which is good because titanfall two
I guess this is a controversial opinion, but titanfall two
Is a 2016 game that came out the same year as doom and I think titanfall two's campaign is better
Yeah, titanfall two is a phenomenal campaign
So you guys should go and you should first off buy and play even if it's just for single player
buy titanfall two
And then play apex ledges
Um, I know this isn't usually in your wheelhouse, but dmc5's demo came out
And I was just wondering if you had anything to say about the series
I'm someone who's just not played enough delme cry to be able to speak on it. Probably. I know basically
Heck yeah more 1993 gang represent with the real 90s kids wolf and rags of frauds being born in
1997 disqualifies you from being a 90s kid
I was I was busy doing 90 stuff like going outside to the playground riding my bike and finding
And hiding porn magazines in the in the gravel of the
elementary school
recess
Yeah, he only did that just last week
Yeah, it's true. It's true. Yeah
Um, but yeah, I I didn't really get much video games when I
especially in the 90s because
you know
Uh, here we go. Holy crap. I can actually watch one of these lives if you can
give the youtuber thac's
Kickstarter born punk a cyberpunki classic point and click adventurer shout out
I have no idea champagne
Oh is making a game. He's made it's his game. He's making this game
Um, so you should go and check that out information's on his channel top hats and champagne. I will be eventually doing
A look through it and giving that some giving that some
looky through ease
There you go next effect actually so after i'm done with this video i'm doing now I would maybe like to start delving into that
But yeah, please do because this is going to
I think it's going to help him because he wants to move to the u.s. So this will help him
I think do that
If this game doesn't
More for the love of god. If you're watching a jared video watch his thanksgiving video from last year
They don't know anything about that
I don't know i've seen in chat a couple of times. We'll have to see about what what the dillio is
It's probably a funny one and then finally
Cool's gold with been a fan for a while. Thanks for the content. Oh, thank you
Does jared want to come on still?
I don't know. He's been offline for 30 minutes. He's off celebrating
He's in the street naked running around screaming going. Hey, I made it
It's that's probably not
Untrue. He's done something very similar to that on camera before so we've gotten close to things like that. Yes
Frighteningly close
Well, I mean either way, uh, why don't you spend a little bit boxes talking about your channel?
And why people should subscribe to it while I put a link in the chat
Um, uh, hello, uh, yes, so, uh, if you like
Um
bad language
if you like puppets
If you like things being torn to shred in funny ways and skits
Uh, then check out uh my show smack talk on foxes productions. It's uh, it is also, uh, the youtube channel of a
Film student called paul, but no one gives a shit about him. So it's all about me
And so yeah, check it out. I review films tv shows occasionally video games as well
And I also am part of a podcast
That is hosted every sunday called the great british podcast on cynical reviews channel who should also check out
Which is good and i'd recommend it. Yes
Yeah, we need to get some of you guys on
I mean, I know you're american, but
We can set that aside put our differences aside for our cousins across the pond
But yes, I guess the best way to describe my show would be
Uh wonder shows and meet charlie brooker
Uh charlie brooker screenwipes. So yeah with a bit of mystery science theater thrown in so yeah, that's probably the best way to describe my show
And yeah today i'm celebrating the five-year anniversary and uh big thanks to any fans who are in this chat watching
Uh, thanks for sticking by my small piddly channel. I don't uh, you know
I'm not one of the the big youtubers, but i'm grateful for the people I have some of the big youtubers are shit
Don't worry about it. Yeah subscribe to jared genesis. He's a treat
Um, yeah, I mean we can we can chill out for a bit if you want to clarify whether or not jared can come on
But if not, I guess we can we can wrap up. It's uh, it's really dependent. Yeah, we got some gay donuts
Oh, we could do you want to run into that while we we see if jared's around or not?
Chat do you want gay gay donuts chat? I don't think they're ever going to say no to gay donuts
I'm trying to get jared on. I just got he just is offline. So I don't know what he's doing
All right
Gentlemen, are you ready? Are you sitting comfortably? Are you sitting comfortably? So what is the context? It's like a random paragraph or
so
So when we last left off our intrepid gay explorers were in a
uh
gay cafe looking for gay donuts
and
They do indeed have gay donuts now mike
Uh gets whisked off
and he's taken to this
stage
And it's actually a strange
fetish game show
and
according to the man running the show
Loads will be blasted onto mike's tight gay asshole
so
I shall begin
right
Two stage hands approach and help lean me back onto the ground
Then position some sort of ramp under me so that my legs are lifted and slowly placed behind my head
My upper back still on the wooden stage floor
I find myself with my ass in the air and my butthole
completely exposed to the world
two
floating donuts approach me with their cocks in their tiny baked hands
Beating off and looking down at my fit body as it lies contorted below them
One of them is covered in dark brown chocolate sprinkles while the other sports an incredibly
arousing coat of coconut shavings
The first
the first treat
Starts to moan almost immediately and shoots a string of semen directly into my asshole
Where it lands and pulls for a moment before sliding back down the crack of my ass
The next follows closely behind but his aim is a little off so his jizz flies onto my butt
But also somehow manages to add a few splatters to the mess on my face
11 the enancer calls out 12 two more
Frosted treats approach and position themselves accordingly as they pleasure themselves. I do the same
spastically rubbing my cock while I tiptoe on the edge of pure blissful orgasm
As the donuts blow their loads. I finally come myself the muscles in my stomach contracting
Wildly as wave after wave of pleasure shoots through me
I scream a wild animalistic yoke and let go of everything my eyes rolling back into my head like a man possessed
I can feel the cum frosting raining down onto me as I tremble and quake
my body
Disappearing somehow and leaving me as an object of pure blinding pleasure
The sensation envelops me as jizz continues to fall and the announcer calls out my benchmarks my own
Loud spurts back across the stage is a forceful blast
Yeah, my own load spurts back across the stage in a forceful blast there we go
13 he says 14 15 i'm not even aware
That the desserts have been replaced by others because my eyes are now completely caked shut with sugary semen
16 the announcer crows and the audience loses their mind
I collapse back only I I collapse back on the stage floor and the ramp is pulled up from under me
So that I can lay flat i'm utterly glazed with doughnut semen
We have a winner the voice says tell him what he's won
Another voice suddenly comes over the loudspeaker higher pitched and speaking rapidly like i'm trapped in some sort of bizarre sexual
Infomercial well mike you've had a great night here on the big glaze
Starring in your very own donut show and taking
16 loads you're going to love taking 16 more during your all expense paid trip to holland
Home of the dutch who came to america and invented the donut many many years ago
I stay at the finest luxury hotel that holland has to offer before being whisked away to our sister donut shop
For your very own headline show the crowd cheers again and I smile
Sensing through the layers of calm on my closed eyelids that the stage curtain is now closing
I lay alone in the darkness
Slowly trying to recover from the best night of my life
That's beautiful and see I was going to criticize if we're not making sense, but now it does so it was like a game show
You have to sort of
You know put up with as many donut glazings as you can and this person did very well
Yeah, I think like a over a dozen donuts. Yeah
So that's the getting glazed sounds like the easy part
It's just yeah, yeah, it's just like uh, and they get the all expense paid trip
I think that's very kind as well considering. Yeah, so it's part of uh, handsome sentient food pounds my butt. Uh, so
When maula was on the great british podcast, I read uh creamed in the butt by my handsome living corn
there's also
living donuts, uh
They're also in this book is slammed up the butt by my hot coffee boss
That one is very weird. It ends with the this intern
Having sex with his domineering boss
Who's a giant cup of coffee and it ends with him slipping into the the coffee mixture and dissolving in a sea of love
It's very weird
Um, that's terrible. Oh
Yeah, oh pressed in the butt by my inclusive holiday coffee cups
my inclusive holiday coffee
Oh
Turned gay by the living alpha diner
uh
bigfoot
summerlier butt tasting
Uh slammed in the butt
Slammed by the living leftover chocolate chip cookies
Shared by the chocolate milk cowboys
And number nine in the chapter is bonus recipes
Ooh
Bonus recipes. Yeah, we uh, we got another jarred representation here
The uh, I assume the bat in this scenario is actually a minion that he can control or at least release
You know, it's it's tough to really figure it out definitively
um
But yeah, I I I imagine jarred was uh
Is somewhere else? I do not know
I yeah, I don't know. He's not on
uh discord and
Someone said that they messaged him on steam, but it doesn't look like he's responding
He probably he's listen
Give him a moment to let the let the the fame and notoriety just sort of sink in don't
Not not too fast, you know slow and easy is everyone happy to wrap up then let him acclimate to his fame
Yeah, all right
We'll try to get you on soon. Jr
It's been it's been so very fun. The intention today was three videos
We ended up covering one and the guy who made it came on and then
Jared and a meme and more memes and you know
It's just you never know with efap, but we do have lots of plans. The next guest. Hopefully will be veto who made the um
The other sort of I think I think he made the video called star wars the last Jedi is
The biggest cinematic failure in history or something like that
It's quite amusing and um seems like a lot of fun
But we've also heard that major lee wants to come on to efap
like incessantly he keeps saying that um, he's like contacted me and I haven't responded so i'm going to try and
Actually contact him because I have I have no idea
Where he's contacted me. He hasn't tried twitter for some reason which is the one place i've continuously talked to him before
Where else would he have contacted you? Well, he said email
But the problem is like I get a lot of emails and apparently I must have missed it
Um, which is fine. But yes, so those two things are potential we also have
The wolf versus jay debate which will happen eventually over arrival
We've also got the nostalgia critic video that we always said we would do on van Helsing
We're getting around to that too. There's a bunch of other things. They're all noted
And uh, we will get some eventually as well as many other guests that um have been requested
But yes, our our guest today has been vox's production. So thank you very much for coming on and putting up
Oh, you're very welcome guys. God. Damn. Does it feel good to use my own voice? Yeah. Thank you
It was who are you?
Um, yeah, you know
Thanks for putting up with it for so long because a lot of people can't it's uh, it's tough, you know
Even right do we not do we not have to use we don't have to use our real voice or our fakie character voices anymore
Oh, thank god. I was so
I'm so glad that I don't fuck that shit. Those are your real voices. Really? Yes. I am lura shim. But don't you know that
Like oh god, i'm actually i'm actually mute
That's the truth
Uh, I just put on this I just put on this voice for the character
Do you have like that little thing around your neck like from the movie up that lets you talk?
I don't think no, I I have one of those little those vibratey thingy put it up to your throat
And it um is then it goes all the way up there, huh?
Shaping your like your mouth hole in different ways. It kind of it makes
It's like people with a hole in their neck. They can talk. Oh, right. Yeah. Yeah, those things. I can't remember what they're called
Stoma the hole in the neck is called a stoma the the have you guys seen scary movie full
Three three
We're a guy with one of those that problem
He puts um the machine to him and he wants to say hello to leslie neilson
He says something like hello. Very nice to meet you, mr
President but it comes out like robotic like obviously and the president was just addressing the fact that aliens are invading the earth
And it's a complete parody movie. So he assumes that guy is like an alien and then punches him even though he's like a crippled guy
There's lots of good things to watch in
Those movies, but yeah back on topic. This is our outro. Thank everybody. Thanks everybody for being so amazing with these efap memes
It's like the passion and effort and knowing that there's even more to come
Is hilarity incarnate? Um, thank you for obviously watching as well all the way down to when we hit
What was it like nine viewers those nine people who stayed?
You're the true heroes the og's
obviously and um
Well, just all nine of them
There's a lot of people who died uh five of them being us so
Four yeah, so just still very dedicated. Wait. Oh my god. What number does it show for you? Oh my god, he's he's back. Oh, he's back
He might be hold on. He just came back on. Well, we got there's two super chats as well
Uh happy I caught one of these live been enjoying each of these all 120 plus hours worth keep it up
And shout out for wolf for coming back. Oh and maula looking forward to the rest of tfa series. It's on the way
And so it shall be and james moore said jesus christ paul escaped the cage
Oh, yeah, I did. I did. It's fun
Now phone I can find my clothes
That's why I don't even I don't even wear clothes it's just it's all a racket also him
What was it that he went green on discord? Is that what you meant? No, he went from gray to red
Oh, oh shit. That means I can't ping him
Or I can but I won't like notify him
Damn it
It strikes me that jared deserves his own episode I think
We're on board. Yeah, there you go. Just have one word is
You know just him and you guys can
Do we end do we delay? I I can't call it. I don't know
I don't know chat. Should we should we stay five minutes and
see
Yo, yo, yo, yo, jared jinnis is here jared. Come on, buddy. You can do it
You just need to accept my friend request so I can actually invite you in here
All right, we'll stay for five minutes five minutes exactly
So, uh guys we'll step my timer
Uh, well the weather over here has been pretty inconsistent
in a good way
No
It's it really just doesn't know if it wants to be spring or winter yet
So it switches between the two every other day. Oh my god. He's typing
Am I too late no
Accept my friend request
I can then bring you into the call
If he actually gets on here, there is no way to efficiently title this video
I'm just gonna call it like refer to the description
Should I should I find some more gay porn to it? Oh, we'll be fine if he comes on we'll just uh
I got him. I got him
It sounds like yes you yes
Here we go. Jared
I'm so excited
Answer buddy you can do it
You can do it
Jared
Jared is in the chat. He's in the chat Jared. Come on bud
Get your mic. He said you talked to him right mauler. Yeah. Yeah me and rags talked to him
He was in like the public vc at one point
Uh-oh
He's left
He's in the group, uh, maybe he needs to get his mic is he home
Uh, does he leave his home
Oh the whole choice let him leave the chat this is like this is like the season finale right now for the chat
Yeah, bro, I probably need to plug my headphones in I had complaints last time one sec. Okay, buddy
All right. Okay, we knew that guys come in load in bar
Coming coming real hard there at the illustrious rendition of jack sing from this video
Beautiful
We have been forsaken he decided last minute that we weren't they let us pray
We were on the verge of greatness we were this
Yo, that shows that one
Come on jared ready. Oh, he's typing
Yes, does he know that he can join I don't think so
Hang on. Let me remove him and then you read read him. Okay
Okay, it'll ring him again
Lord genesis add
All right, buddy
You can do it
You can do it accept the call
Oh
Come on, it's like we're all staring at the phone
He's building up the suspense. Press the button. Just press the green button
You could do it. I think he on maybe he's gone on like zero
Lies the location of the cursor on your screen zero notifications or something
I don't know
Jared
I
Everybody's like putting their hands together
This is like getting a call from jesus we need this
Anyway, I think i'm gonna call it a day that makes that makes sense dude, this is insanity for you
This is now you should have your moment with lord genesis
So do it. I won't stand in your way. What does it look?
Hold on i'm gonna leave the call just so I know that I
Can explain this to him? Okay
But no, thanks for having me on. Yeah. No, thanks for coming dude. Get some sleep and uh, yeah, good luck and I hope uh
It's always nice to meet your heroes. So I hope you have a good time with uh, jared
Oh, of course, of course and obviously good luck with your channel and your podcast. So
Thank you. Thank you. We'll have to have rags on and mauler again and wolf
He said keep your pipe fellow I command it I think he means what keep your pipe what oh
uh
The pipe man must stay I mean the pipe man is leaving anyway
Uh, can I go to the toilet? I am. Absolutely. My bladder is shot to shit
Go go and use the toilet. So
Relieve yourself
Wait, so jared doesn't want to come in
What did you did you go call it wolf or did you do something else?
He has to admit
I don't understand
So
Jared you joined in just click that green join call button
The suspense
This is very suspenseful. Someone could make like a dramatic vision of this every time he rings the camera like zooms in it's like
We must wait for pipe man, it must be what
Jared said it must we must wait for pipe man. It must be complete before jared to join
Hurry up foxes
He's gonna be so confused he comes back why
Oh back you back he's back
Jared stipulate way to go me. Why does he give a flying fuck about me?
Because you're pipe man your pipe man now
My name is professor tosspot pipe man good, I mean lord genesis has declared you pipe man
I'm, not sure if you can escape that at this point. My name is albert tosspot
What is it stop typing you coward get on chat
pipe man
Pipe man has returned in good condition. Yes
Is the pipe man returned in good condition?
Is the pipe man returned in good condition people still
has begun
Jared
You the joint?
Please join jared like the suspense is killing us
Oh hurry up cut the four awkward 50 year old black man voice in five four three two
Jared
Where is he
There's more genesis here
Blessings may the slagger be with all of you my friends
I have never been happier in my entire life
Rest in peace my earphones. Jesus christ. It is my great pleasure to be with all efap. I drink the rhino milk every day
Yeah
Wolf's like the gentleman over the moon. This is perfect
Someone just said I was here
Guys hashtag we were there we were there the night vet jared dreister podcast
It's racist
Look I can't talk i'm like meeting the celebrity of a lifetime
We were there we were there what has jared been up to today?
I've just been um reading very very
Eloquent literature that is for the highest of all levels. I was reading some dr. Seuss today. Um
Have you ever read?
Sneeches rags
Sneeches
Yes, it's about um animals with stars upon their belly buttons and they think they're better than the ones without stars
It's a very very eloquent book
I've i've never heard of that. Um, I have to look that up
um
By dr. Seuss you say must it is truly a great reason. Yeah, the sneeches the sneeches are
So
He's actually seen something he's consumed the piece of media you're referencing that's insane
Jay's the chosen one of your group then my friends
Jay
There you go, buddy. Now. You just need to watch every movie that you haven't seen. He's nearly there
It's all good. My my favorite dr. Seuss book was always there's a wocket in my pocket
Ah, that is a great one
Yes, that is truly great. I it's no surprise that you have read that book though
And um, I already knew you were great rags, but oh, thank you
And I think a second a close second though is oh the places you'll get
Ah, that is the very best. Yes again. I'm not surprised again. Thanks. It's still kind of a queer though
That's all
Oh jerry get an exception there is fan art of you like the people have been waiting for this moment forever
I yes, i've seen some on my discord. It's truly magnificent. It's it's truly holy
See a thousand subscribers has already gone to his fucking head. I mean, you know, hey
Jared is god. Okay. Hey the the first thousand are the hardest
Yeah, the second thousand are much easier
Then they're the first 2000. So
May I ask who is this pipe man who has graced your presence? I don't know of this man
Introduce yourself fox. Let's go
Hey, my name is professor albert tosspot. I come from boxes productions. I have a show called smack talk where
Well shock horror. I talk smack about things
Ah, you sound very very blessed. I must check you out soon
All right, so blessed to sound like a smoke 70 a day
That's pleasant. You might as well. Yeah, that's the holy smoke
Hey, when jared calls you blessed that is something you mean something. You can't refute that you can just
False god prove your powers jared. How dare you wow?
He's got my powers life from within the swagger can only be felt not seen
Of course, how could I be so blind jared? Show me the way the sleeper has awoken
The way is within you my friend just keep walking
That's true. If the way was made clear. It would not be the one puppet walk
Yeah, these are the questions that play
Fucking legs. Yeah, but you know do they work pretty old?
It's true
Jerry, what do you think they can get into the toilet? Um, some expanded lore for all of you
Um, i'm reminded because of two british men here. Um, my last name is a cock which is actually british. Um
Yes, so I I am of the british deceit I have a large cock in my name do you mean descent
Yes, that's correct the last british dude tended to see people that's actually
Yeah, you did that with a lot of countries only all the countries beat you we're still the heroes at the end every time
except in the patriot
Um, what um, well, I guess what is it late for you right now or is it getting late for you right now?
Uh, it's 7 21 p.m. I'm in houston texas. So, uh, but time doesn't really matter
I don't exist through time. I only exist through swagger and could have blessed rhino milk
Jared jared is your barber the same barber to kim jong-un
I have not been to a barber shop and I believe close to 15 years now. Yes
I'm i'm sure natural. Do you cut your hair?
I do. I do. Yes
Dude
I need you I I would ask you to cut my hair if I had any hair, but I don't
Well, it's pretty impressive. All right. I know you're beautiful in every way. Um,
Dishonored wolf. I'm excuse me word of the wolf. Um, there's nothing I could do to further your beauty
Thank you. That's the kindest thing anyone has ever said to me in my entire life
Here you go. I'm not I'm not even meaning that's like a word for the lead
It is the truth my friend
Thank you. That means a lot coming from you Jared
Not a problem friend
What are you gonna do for the rest of the day after after you sign off here? What's on the agenda the plan?
Are you going to celebrate your victory of a thousand subs?
Um, actually I must speak on the beauty of rags before I forget. I saw a video of this young man
Someone sent to me on twitter. My goodness. It is a sin. He does not show his face on his videos. He is truly gorgeous
He has a chin. I can't even explain how gorgeous his chin is. It's like a
blessed tree stump
It's just I can't even describe it
So
Can we see this video you talk it's a video where rags has his face
Do you remember a video where you were knocking a certain gentleman about let's see
Um, he was saying how about the pc master race like ways to avoid them or something like that
He was this really dirty looking fellow, but you made a response video to him
a long time ago
I I showed my face a little bit
But I wanted to kind of just focus on the like the dog icon and the brand and stuff like that
Right, right. Yeah, I got a lot of compliments. I just wanted to focus on, you know something else
Understandable understand but I I won't I won't show anyone the video. I just I just had to say i'm sorry. I just
Oh, no apologies needed at all. Okay. That's very kind
No problem
I
Thank you for coming on
It's my pleasure guys. Really. I want to thank all of you though. You have helped me so much in my channel
I mean really without you guys, I would still be in the 50 sub club. So special. Thank you. No
I've literally been waiting for this day since like mid 2017
And it's finally come true
He's bringing people together
I
Apologize for that too. Yeah, I
Should have been here sooner. I do apologize
Oh, no, it's worth every minute
I'm glad that we could get past our differences from that that little spat we had a while back
I've forgotten all about it. Literally. I don't even know what you mean. I'm too focused on the beauty of the efap
Good to know wonderful
Man
So, I mean gosh, what do you have any plans for the channel have you even thought about what you're gonna do next
Many people want me to live stream, but it has to be a sacred live stream. It can't just be anything
Uh, I thought of perhaps doing like breast massage techniques, uh, blessed things of that
I don't know quite entirely what i'm going to do, but
It has to be truly sacred. You have a lot of experience doing breast massages
Uh with myself only sadly the moment don't come to my door, but yes, I would say i'm not professional
Well, I you gotta you gotta make sure to keep him at a certain distance, you know
At least he's breast massage and not prostate massage. I don't know if that's a good thing, you know
I don't think it's streamable
You could just keep the camera above the waist and just
And what just focus on the face as he grimaces with every finger grimace. I'm sure you'd be overjoyed, sir
thrilled
I think it would be interesting to have you you know live stream and asking, you know
Answer questions do a little do a little amas every once in a while and give your opinion on things and dispense wisdom
to the to the chat
Well, I would I would like to stream games too. It's just I don't want to be the guy the guy that streams, you know
Resident Evil 2 when a million other people are doing it. So
Hopefully it'll just be like gonna stream those like lesser known games. Yes, hopefully so. Yes
There's honey select replay
There's loads
What what have you been playing lately?
Um, there's a site I go to where you can, um play old school games play retro games calm
Um
Yes, the lesson jared. Uh, i'm sorry to tell you i'm not actually 18 years old
I'm actually a little bit older. But uh, yeah, I grew up with the old school stuff. So, uh, I guess it's still in my bloodstream
I
Like snes genesis stuff like that playstation one
Was the genesis named after you?
I believe it is very good. I make sense. It was pretty much confirmed already, but we just like to have it in stone
Right. We need to add it to the jared wiki
Yeah, I never I never heard of this site it's pretty it's pretty nifty
It is. Yeah, you don't have to upload you can just download them real quick. That's what I like about it. Yeah. Hmm
Yeah, I got some I didn't even know there was a pokemon cloud white
How you been uh, I even find in the memes Jared all these meme videos people generate in
Oh god, they're amazing. I mean really your fans are the coolest people i've ever seen like you guys are very lucky
You have blessed fans. Hey, man. Our fans are your fans, too
Everyone who watches this show loves you like this has been like mall or even described. This is like the season finale
It's like the greatest of all apps
I think I think it makes sense the season one finale was quinton and tro and all that season two finale will be this
We got a new season next episode every 12 episodes. This is new season
And this is going to be the the ending of the best season
I agree. Oh, who knows? Maybe it's just the beginning of the best season
Maybe you could have a jared on every episode
It could be a regular honey fap
Only the blessed pike man is here as well as mauler and rags and dishonored wolf
Blessed pike man, you're never going to be able to not be referred to as that now
And now i'm gonna have people commenting my channel. Ah, it's the pike man. It's the blessed pike man
Everyone go to fox's channel and just spam pike man and the oh you fucker
Blessed pike man guys blessed pike man shit shit
What um, let's see well, uh
Gosh you've got maybe stuff you're gonna do with your channel you
Yeah, I mean I you should
Yeah, I mean I i'm very curious to see what kind of things we see in the pipeline
Coming up here for the channel
Well rags, I can tell you this I would never ever even come close to your swag level
Of what do you have now 300k subs, which is truly magnificent. But
Even if I get a few more i'd be happy. I mean
1500 or so, but um
I'm, just happy to have what I have and i'm just gonna keep doing me. I guess
Yeah, I don't know
Um, I mean there's only so much I guess lord genesis can do and
Um, but I hope you guys still enjoy it
We enjoy everything you put out it's just perfect. Oh my fucking comment section
Already blessed pike man blessed pike man
Love you pike man. Blessed pike. I'm blessed. Oh, hey, it's the blessed pike you fuckers
There's a little comment
Get ready you're gonna have jared beams on your channel and your audience will soon
be the ghost
It'll be absorbed into the efap lore and then through that into jared's channel
Oh, they just keep coming in
Every time I refresh it's the blessed pike man
Wait, let's it be the pike man. You just said it's the blessed pike man. I can see that being used in meme videos now
So mala
Congratulations to you master mala on your a million. Um views you got in your video truly that is magnificent
And I congratulate you for that. Oh, I mean, you know
It just it just means that it's a message people want it out there and I uh, I appreciate all the viewers for checking it out
But thank you very much. So you're welcome. Keep up the great work. Yes
Man where do you even what do you even
Say, I mean unprecedented gosh
Jared is there anything that you would like to say to all of your wonderful fans that
Just love you to death
It is a swagger of all that make me great the swagger of everyone
um
That comes within my nipples and throughout my whole body
um
And it stimulates me every day and truly I am nothing without every single one of you. Uh, you are all truly just
Beyond swag, uh, the universe shakes in your level of swagger
And really I get and I just you all make me great. So I have to emphasize that
Oh Jared, who do you think will be the most inconsistent character of stalls episode nine?
Ah, uh quinton reviews
I'll throw your name into the into the thing for quinton if you want
But I mean if you want to jump on to one of the characters in the film because it's essentially like a bet
But with no stakes just see it who's gonna you know, jared. We we actually theorized because none of us have chosen lando
but
Lando
Probably will be the winner
Uh sad to say I don't know who that is
But I guess you're not surprised
Okay, black guy. Yes, that's a quote from rogenesis the black guy. Uh, I don't know if you all saw my review of
rogue one
But I referred to him as a black guy throughout the whole review
and um
I asked god's forgiveness on having queer feelings towards him. Um, but yes
Who are you referring to? Um
Um
As the black guy who was in the film, um, the stormtrooper man, uh,
Wait fin he wasn't in rogue one though
Well, he was it was it's uh, he was sort of like symbolically oh
No, yeah. No, I get it. That's fair. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking more literally but fuck that shit
Yeah, that's great. That's where your problem is
Really? You're right. You're thinking too. Can I put your vote in for fin jared?
You'd be certainly can you'd be you'd be with me?
Jay cynic snacks and uh and yourself. Yeah
And me that's it. No you went for poe you lied
I have to follow the blessed pikeman then I
He's truly sacred in this swagger. Forgive me mauler
That's fine. You'd like to go for poe. That is absolutely don't poe
Yeah, that was a pretty good answer. In fact, that would probably be my number two
The pikeman is really wrong on these things in fairness
Now that jared said that it's gonna be poe. It's definitely gonna be poe
Well, yeah, i'm the only other two votes on that currently are alex and uh and voxis. So
Those are the three people to be right comment section
Someone in the chat
Someone in the chat jared from george s says super chat in honor of jared long man bad, but pikeman blessed
Beautiful that is man's beautiful
May they be blessed and swaggered
I'm getting blessed in fucking spam here
enjoy
Hey, that's something that's more fans than you will ever have
Hands good job. My heart is made of felt
I
Apparently lee is calling me a coward right now. Is that true? Jared. What say you?
Um
Right now i'm so stimulated. It's hard to think quite straight. But um, let's see. I can't think straight
The toe jam and earl swagger is coming soon. Um
They will bring forth a new dawn to the uh to the genesis the sega genesis
For those of you don't know toe jam and earl. It is a blessed game that I grew up with. Um infused in the funk
infused in the swagger of two space aliens, um
You'll have to look it up, but yes that revelation is coming soon. Um
Right now that's my primary focus other than the beautiful people of efap
Well, there you go, so what have you written so what have you done?
Well, jared it was a joy to have you on
Yeah, we don't want to overdo it. We don't want to overdo something
Um, take it easy
You as well my friend
all of you
And um, i'm always down whenever you guys want to do this again. Just holler at your boy
Absolutely. Absolutely. You bet i'm looking forwards to it
And I have to end this simply by saying you all did it. Okay the way you did it
Thank you
Chat once again hashtag we were there
Excellent
Well blessing to you all my friends it's been all right
We'll catch you later and we'll probably wrap the stream up there. I think
Oh, there's a couple of sweet chats i'll read out quick and then uh, all right sounds great
All right, take care guys you too sir. Yeah. Good. Bye. Thank you. Good luck. You too. Blessed pipe, man
Oh my god, that's great
That's literally exactly what was happening to
That is is this one. I assume it relates to the we were there sort of thing
Five stream watchers do not cite the deep magic to me
Oh god
um
I was there
We must I am i'm gonna i'm gonna bounce because I I need to sustain my body
I've i've been sustained spiritually, but now i must sustain myself physically. So very well. Absolutely
I will catch you guys later. All righty. Goodbye. Mr. Rags
Bye. Bye. Take care. See you later doggo. Yeah, this should only take a second. Uh
Grow money at them. We must give a sacrifice to summon the mighty lord genesis. Yes. Hashtag. I was there
the 11th commandment the pipe mad must stay
Here's a super chat for our lord genesis rhino milk, it's a dream come true. How's it going? Mr. Jared congrats on 1k subs
I uh, I posted a jarred fan art in the efap discord
Podcast section i'll be honored and blessed if Jared sees it i'll uh, i'll get it to him
Um, don't worry because he's still in our group
Uh, this makes my peepee become the big peepee. You must review uncapped lore memes memes so that they may be blessed
Uh by our lord the sacrifice was a success amazing lord
Genesis is from texas time from texas if only roosterteeth wasn't filled with dumb fucks and texas would have everything
Congratulations, jared to come out efap
um
piped blessman
Uh, this is my first super chat in this stream it appears by Jared have I made my day also high blessed pipe man
What are your opinions on warp pipes?
Super chat honor of Jared long bad bad, but pipe man blessed
I love that jared is now because of him you're forever going to be known as the pipeman
The pipeman
Goody
All my reviews are shitless are yours log man bad, but does he still has the skeleton though?
I'm sure he does and oh he couldn't get rid of that skeleton for the sake of our sanity
I'm going to call it there once again. Thank you to the guests voxis being the special guest
uh slash pipeman
Who you should definitely go and check out his channel. Like I said, he does lots of good and fun videos
In fact, you've uh, you got one on alien covenant
Which is something that me and wolf want to do some form of coverage on efap for eventually because of how?
Wonderfully good it is, you know. Oh, yeah
You guess you're gonna show that
No, i'm saying that
You've covered it very well. People should go and watch it this doing this encourages them to go to your channel
You see oh, I see. I I was afraid you're gonna show the bit where i'm advertising blacked.com
And you're uh on your stream and just you know making sure fucking filthy pipeman
Someone in the chat said where were you when the pipeman was blessed?
Uh, thank you for the extremely kind donations at the extremely creative work for the efap memes
We will be back at a later date to be disclosed who knows it sounds like major lee
Is desperate to come on efap. So that's probably going to happen and potentially veto for star wars related stuff
We haven't done that in a while, but either way good night everybody and goodbye
Good night
Farewell and praise jared
Blessed pipeman
