I got the regular cover now no more spooky ween sad face no more spooky ween all of our
Halloween avatars are gone. It is now officially turkey season. Oh
Yeah, yeah, cuz November just gets swallowed up by December really it does and I hate it. Yes
People are already like putting on Christmas icons. I'm like
Listen, no, it's not even December mate. They do not even
When they do it over here to where it's like it won't even be
Halloween yet and you'll walk into a Walgreens and half the shit there will be Christmas items
Yeah, well when Mel was here we went to get food and there's like this one aisle for Halloween
No, this is before Halloween even happened. No, it's just like man. They're already packing everything away
But all right, and there's this fucking like three aisles for Christmas already. It's like it's not even
even really
Not even a month of the holiday
I suppose the justification would be that there are people out there who like I want to buy my Christmas stuff early so that I don't
Have to worry about it toward the end of the thing. It's like, yeah
Those people are crazy if you can't shop for the people in your life in the period of like of a month
Like I you know, you know, you're not you're just no you're not that's
Kid I didn't know what the fuck I wanted for Christmas until December happened and even then it wasn't until like halfway through the month
Anyway, my family asked me what I went for my birthday and I'm like, man, I don't know Amazon gift cards
Like honestly just like money
Amazon cards. I've told family members that and they're always like, yeah, and I'm like, it's not offensive
It's like I'd rather just have money so I could save up for the things I want anyways
If they buy you a sorted jug, you're like, oh, I'll put this on a shelf until I finally bid it one day
That's what I've told them. I've said money is a gift card that never expires to anywhere ever
Yep, so just give give me that I mean if you would really like to buy me a GT or an RTX 280 or
In an Intel i9 then go ahead, but I don't know if you're gonna I'm gonna do that. Yeah, I had laptop, please
If you can pay off the rest of my car, that'd be great
Wow, how unprofessional answering the door during his national live stream
National live stream international live stream your yeah multiple nations
Yeah, I
Can't imagine how fucking painful it must be to work at Amazon during Christmas. Oh
Fuck hey
10 billion orders today. You're like 10 bit
Yeah, I mean I I've
been looking around for jobs and I always see jobs for the Amazon warehouses and then I just think of how that would be and
I don't want to do it. Well, there was that there was a story right that they don't even get to pee
They have to pee at balls or whatever. I don't you're kidding. I haven't heard that. Are you serious?
Well, it was like a year ago
I think this story came out, but I'm not sure if it was one of those
Holy fuck, I don't think I don't know if it was one of those stories
It was like hyper specific in one case like I didn't look into it
I don't know how true it is, but I remember a lot of people covering it being like Amazon workers. They're in a horrible state
right now
Yeah, I mean you look at reviews on sites like Glassdoor or whatever. I don't know if they have that over there for you
but
If they're Amazon workers are always like at two out of five stars for the reviews of that place and it's like, oh
I don't know if I want to work at a place that has two out of five star ratings and horribly
I can't conclude anything. But well Amazon service is amazing
They could get you so much. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I use Amazon all the time
But at the same time like I would never yeah, I would never want to work there
No, I'd rather work at a place where more was expected of me, but it was more high quality and respectable
Yeah, yeah
like I would much rather work at a
Like a four-star hotel rather than a motel six, you know
Mm-hmm
So wolf talk about Buffy for a little bit. Are we lies?
There's no there's no on record of any kind of you even mentioning Buffy and I want people to know that you've seen it now
No, you're actually wrong about that
Hardly any the the the record we have is me telling I don't remember who it was. It was no mel stream
Yeah, where I was insulting someone for saying that Riley was their favorite character
It was never footy his favorite. It was all all that was said was he liked him and you were like, that's just wrong
Which is true, but he was
Well
You wanted to bite his head off I know it it's okay, right such a terrible character Buffy's amazing season one sucks season two is great
season three is great season four is it's okay season five's amazing season six is one of the best seasons of television I've ever watched
season seven is
It's okay, it's got a lot of issues but the payoffs are really good angel season one is good angel season two
It's great angel season three is great angel season four is one of the worst things
I've ever watched in my entire life and angel season five was one of the best things that I watched in my entire life
Which is very strange given how bad season four was yeah, and I agree with all of those takes
That's pretty much where I'm at with all of it. I
Agree that Star Wars is gonna be much like the app one of those seasons where the payoff will be amazing
Even if the journey to get there is tis me
We all know that at the end of episode 9 everything in our wildest dreams and more will come true
I can't wait for Ray to kill
I'll be honest
I've read a couple of like theories and hints and stuff and then I was the people were like when you read out the
Leaks and I was like, oh man
We're like a month and a half plus away
Do I wonder if the leaks are 100% accurate, which that seems to be what they are
Do I want to read them? Do we want to have no surprises? We're watching it. You know what I mean?
Ray kills Palpatine with two lightsabers. I
Don't care at this point if you were actually invested in Star Wars, I don't really yeah, that's like value
That's side of me. There's a part of me that says I have absolutely no investment
In my willingness to want to be surprised. It's almost like a like a child
Like I can't wait to just see it happen because I know it's gonna be absolutely
Insane and I almost want to have the thrill of its insanity to be
Genuine on my face and the theater but at the same time I'm like, what could it's gonna be terrible?
Concerned that if like let's say we didn't you fab
We went through the leaks and they're extensive by the way
And we spend like three hours going through and judging it all and then the film comes out
We watch in it is the leaks one for one our review of the film would essentially just be a reflection of the stream
Where we read the leaks, right?
Maybe yeah, we probably shouldn't talk to you sensitively about them
I mean, I I think that there would be still just so much gonna be more things to talk about for sure
I just I don't know there might be there might be some overlap, but I wouldn't be too concerned with it from that perspective
I'm sorry, you know us we just go on
Just so you know, it's okay to take naps during the stream. There's precedent now. Yes
We is there an actual precedent for taking naps during the stream?
I'm glad that you said naps plural. Yeah, because she did
Take naps plural. She was oh, that's how he referenced it. So yeah. Oh
Well multiple naps were had she went to sleep woke up went back to sleep and then woke up
Well, that's good cuz I'll have to feed my cat in like an hour and a half. Anyway, so does that make you sleepy?
No, it's just I'm gonna be gone for 15 minutes. Oh, no. No, we're talking like sleepy sleep naps
Big wake up what day is it kind of naps, you know Buffy season one does not suck. It's a bit dated though
It doesn't suck like batwoman does
The writing isn't like that one was amazing
It's the production values and then everything's a bit rusty and awkward and it's what you would call
Terrible if not for these other things existing because they reset our scales all the time because that woman is
episode of Buffy season one that's like, oh there's potential here and then season two is like
Really ramped up the writing factor and to realize that doesn't the episodes
Yeah, would you would you recommend to people to watch your wolf? What do you think? It's just me if you like?
If you could put that list out there of like the episodes in season one and two to avoid then yeah
absolutely
But it's my favorite show so
There you go. It's official
Well now I have to clarify I have to qualify this because everyone's gonna say breaking bad
Breaking bad is definitely better from a plot standpoint, but I like the characters a lot more in Buffy
That's not to say that breaking bads characters are bad
I write I really like breaking bad. It's one of the best shows ever made
I'm not saying it's bad alone. I have to clarify this because I know exactly the kind of response
I'm gonna get I mean I get it all the time people people when they watch Buffy for the first time
They're like, what the fuck's wrong with you? How is this the bed? I'm like, wait, just wait
You need to let it develop
I mean in fairness
Also, I I would have never given it a chance if mauler didn't harass me for like the better part of a year to watch
It with him and then I did and now it's like one of the best things I've ever seen
Yeah
Walt Hank Gus and Jesse right like some oh, yeah, they're fucking great characters when you put Buffy and Angel together
Like oh, yeah, I put them together
Five of my like ten favorite old-time characters are probably gonna have people from Buffy and Angel in it
Lauren is objectively the best character ever written in the history of film
How could you say that when we have like Wesley willow?
And yes, but Lauren always makes me smile. I know he's also
For me, I would say of my top ten favorite characters of all time
I think about I think I'd say probably five of them come from the last Jedi. Oh, of course
Would you like to name them just so we have clarification on that? Yeah, no, they're also great
So it's really tough to put them in any particular order. I wouldn't want to be
Never ask you to do that. Oh, yeah, that would be too tough
but I mean I love the consistency of Kylo Ren and
I really love you know, the raised journey of self-discovery how she overcomes challenges how flawed she is person
You know how she you know succeeds because of her character in the face of adversity despite great, you know trials
I like that
I enjoy Finn's grounding in a realistic way based on his history. Yeah, he seems very he just seems so relatable, you know
I like I
like Leia
because
She has not only shattered the glass ceiling
She is literally flying through space and if that is not a triumphant thing for women everywhere
Then I just don't even fucking talk to me. Absolutely. Who's number five?
number five
You know the oh definitely Captain Fazma. Oh great choice
You know, I'm gonna have to reconsider my friendship with you just because you just because
You didn't mention Maz Kanata. Yeah, I was can I character ever written at any point of time ever
No, I oh that might be true from from an objective standpoint, but I don't like the orange people. Oh
I don't like the greens either. What do you think of which is weird because considering her actor her voice actor
One could say that orange is the new black
Tried to connect it. I saw it. It was all right. Don't don't even don't encourage me. Um, was that five or four?
That was Finn probably no, yeah, I'm in layer. I can't just say rose
Did you say let's be honest the people who enjoy the last Jedi can't count to five
I
That's a rude sir, you can't do that and the people that enjoy season 8 can't count to 20
Can't count to 20 very generous of you wolf
It's a little reference to this show or eggs. You wouldn't get it. Oh
okay, it's it's
It's an episode 6 reference. So of course, I wouldn't believe if no, and it's pretty hard to get through episode 6
There's a lot of walking. Yeah, a lot of walking a lot of walking a lot of staring but of oh, yeah
a lot of
Rameen Javadi's great music applied to a horrible horrible season of show a lot of little person room
You know
I I bought the soundtrack for season 8 because it's genuinely one of the best soundtracks
I've listened to in a long time and I'm so sad that his amazing work is applied to such a terrible show
Yeah, I will say that the soundtracks for things. I've always been able to
separate from the source material
Sure, that's always been something that's been really easy for me to be like, yeah, this came from a terrible thing
But the music's great did it up to do it up?
Yep, unless the music sucks. Likewise. Unless the music sucks. We can separate it with batwoman
You know, the music is bad. No, I've got the rest of it is soundtrack on my what do you mean?
Well, I yeah, I've done done done done done done. I was gonna say you don't need to buy it
Oh, yeah, you really can but I play it. I have that in the background while I play call of duty
Helps me to really keep on track it helps it helps keep my it magically
Somehow makes my m4 a1 even more accurate and deadly than it already is. I can't explain it
I need it's science stuff that I can't grasp. I need to me. I'm sorry before before we move forward. I have to
Read this out wolf. My wife and I efapped Aquaman over three days
Now I understand what he means by that in the country days
But if you take that out of context completely we efapped over Aquaman over three days
Yeah, imagine saying that to someone that has never heard of this show
I don't know. Let me explain
Allow us to explain to you
That's a this is some deep internet lore
Maybe perhaps you've heard of it the we fought for episodes about women and it was only episode three that made us pause rags
I'm actually shocked at that
well surprised by that and I wasn't even there I think it's because I
Think we just got to a point where a scene happened where there was so much to say
we were
part of us was worried that we wouldn't be able to elaborate everything that we were thinking because of how terrible the scene was and
Another part of it was because we knew if we went on we might you know
Miscontext as to the explanation so we had to be like, you know what? We're gonna have to pause it
There's too much. It's too dense. It's too dense to actually do live
Yeah, and I think we should take advantage of that next time because
We let things slip by like it's funny watching other people review it and being like, oh, yeah, I was said
I'm watching I watched Jay Longbone's thoughts on him and I watch there's a guy named Thoreus
unlimited and I came across him and the recommend it's because of a batwoman and
man
There is some like I can't believe like Jay Longbone
she pointed out in
Episode 4 that magpie doesn't wear gloves and she's a jewel thief and I'm like, I can't believe we didn't point that out
There's that thing is so much every scene there is so much wrong with it that you are guaranteed to miss things
She put on the screen a thing where she made two criticisms and she wanted to account for the fact that you could argue that
they counter each other so the idea being that
She doesn't wear gloves and she wears these weird long nails and she was like weird long nails
It's gonna be really difficult to pick anything up with those things
But it's also the idea is if she's trying to give as much credit to the show as she can she says that um
Always the show trying to say that she picks things up with the nails and so there's no fingerprints left behind
But it's just like that's so inefficient
In fairness, there is fly girl who is able to pluck flies out of the air with her nails
So there is precedent. Well, wait, wait, wait, wait, how come they don't call her nail girl?
Because the nails are nothing without the flies to catch
No, because she could grab anything but with the nails is anything as impressive as plucking a fly out of the air
Well, I'll tell you what
Or either of you aware of a terminator does with a fly in the new movie
She's like slice it in half with her fingernail or something if you've seen Jay's video, you'll know it
But it's such a funny scene basically rags. They're on the road as you do
You know how you need like help by the way, not at all concerned
I might end up seeing this movie with my parents. They want to see it. I am NOT at all concerned with spoilers
So go for it. This isn't even really a spoiler. It's just that they're escaping the terminator and they need some help from guy
Relate guy who's related to them guys related them is like, why'd you guys need all this shit?
Like if you don't submit a legal like what's going on and our protagonist decides
intelligently to tell him
That they're being chased by a robot from the future
Yeah, and he's as one would yeah, he's like, um
Okay, and then it shows our hero terminator. She's not a terminator
She's an augmented human, but she may as well be a terminator for the film
Yeah, we I think we had this in salvation. Yeah, and she
She grabbed she has a knife
She grabs it a fly is flying in front of her and she chops it in half while it's flying and the two pieces fall
Onto the table is completely unrelated. She seems to just do it and the guy like looks at her and he's like, whoa
And then like a few pieces of dialogue layer
We cut to the next scene where he's helping them and apparently that convinced him of the truth that a terminator from the future
Is chasing them. Oh
Well that that's that's just like that that logic just follows
I just like it's such a funny scene like as I watched it with Mel and Alex at the cinema and
Like I nearly had to tell Mel to stop just saying something
He was just like what?
Because other people just sort of take it. It's like yeah, you cut a fly in half
That's that's pretty convincing for why
There's I mean if someone if someone cut a fly in half as it was buzzing around and the two halves fell on my table
I think it was a trick
I think this was some some trick that somebody would do and it seems like you'd be able to do it
You know, maybe pretend there's a fly and then why you swiped maybe drop to fly halves
And give them I I don't I would be if I believed it then I would certainly be convinced that wow
This person is very fast reflexes. That's very impressive
They're being pursued by it's a really bad vision of the scene from t2 where they try to convince him the robots
That are sent to infiltrate humanity and kill them from the future of real how do you do that?
He fucking tays off his forearm skin and shows him that he's a robot
That was a scene that made me like cringing in my seat watching it in the good way like I was a great
I was a mean, and it's just like yeah, I believe you
Yeah, all right. You're a robot person effects are so good. I
Want to watch Terminator 2 again though, so good
Um, it's gonna be like the time we watched
Pirates of the Caribbean because it's oh, I'm not watching any other two videos after that
Right there. Oh, oh god. Yeah, you couldn't pay it. Well, you could pay me but that no
You could pay me
Pay me to watch more of my guess
I guess it would just be very unpleasant and I wouldn't really like you after the fact
Um
So on the subreddit this this was posted and I want to make you guys aware of it as well as
Efap checks, I think it's a little pretty funny
All right. What have we got on the subreddit? This is the the mauler subreddit. Yeah
It's good to see two different perspectives on the movie from yours and the critical drinkers critical drinkers are racist in a far-right
Troll this idiotic opinion. Oh, yeah, you mentioned this to me the other day
Exactly is a what did I know I know I know that nowadays the criteria for being a a nazi racist
Etc is not like a film
So I'm curious
Like I don't even know what you can miss construe as being a racist from him. Well, I thought to myself like
Critical drink as a sweetheart. Why would you ever say something? I'm like, oh wait
Well, yeah, anybody who hates the right films they fucked their reputations down the
That's where the bar has been set now if you don't like a film that's proof you're a nazi because you didn't like a film
I've seen a lot of his videos and i'm like i'm trying to think of times where he's let slip any politics or let slip that he's um
Yeah, like when he's talking with us or when he's been on efap and stuff
You're like man, surely surely he must have said something that's like, you know hitler esque
the only thing I could think of that
He's said that would make any lefties like matt as he called aria mary sue which is something I don't agree with him on but
You know, it depends and this is this is the coming problem for a lot of different discussions depends on exactly what traits we're looking at
Yeah, but I don't know completely unrelated note. The spider is still on the screen. Oh, I thought I got rid of it. Oh, no
Well, it makes sense you you can't just have a spider disappear swipe it away with with uh with some tissue
Yeah, they can see into the future. That's why you can never remove a spider web. Yeah. Yes
They have early warning detection systems known as eyes
neat
Wait, so if they can see into the future, why can't spider-man?
Well, I can't spider-man because he's only because he's not spider. He is spider-man
He's his madness
It kind of weighs into the future because he cried when a building fell on him
What a fucking pussy
Yeah, I know. I know when I was 14 and a building fucking fell on me
I was like, is that all you got building?
Fucking weak-ass building
Come at me, bro
Then I lifted it up and fucking pissed on it to assert my dominance
um
Naturally, then I started a then I started a real estate firm to turn it into low-income housing for the
Poor people of the city. You've been watching too much batwoman
Inspired usually by everything about literally not possible to watch too much batwoman
Is one of the
Like I don't even care to read this honestly. I just want you to be aware that this exists as an article
Not only are the new star wars films better than the prequels. They might be better than the originals. Oh
My goodness gracious. This is great. No, now i'm regretting coming back on the show. I like when it says. Yeah, I said it
6691 comments
Now that's a lot considering this is from the marysue.com. Yeah, which is like
Wouldn't recommend hanging out on that website
I'm glad that they at least named their website aptly so that whenever I see it I can just not click on it
The top comment as always luke skywalker is the biggest mary sue in all of western fiction by a huge margin
There's nothing ray could do to possibly come close except when they literally fight and she wins
This this even this that's what's so weird. This comment is even downvoted to hell on the mary sue
Like
Oh my god, I'm just scatting through it i'm like, oh jeez. All right
All right, man, this is crazy these people I I at this point
The mary sue is I mean kataku is going out of business. How far behind do you think the mary sue is?
Oh god, I don't think these people don't see the writing on the wall
They're trying to squeeze every last hate click they possibly can out of it
I like the there's that tweet that describes the last jedi as the most cohesive
Of the star wars movies. It's like, how do you
Oh, please do elaborate please
I'm gonna go ahead and bet that they will begin to talk about themes when they answer you within the first 10 seconds
Themes
You're she and I make fun of it and then they're like, oh so you don't like themes i'm like, you know
That's not what I mean
Not at this point. I'd fuck it at this point. I'm like, yeah, I do hate themes. Fucking the worst thing that ever happened
These are actually my yeah, my theme my life's theme is that themes are shit?
Don't let your themes be memes
Don't let your themes don't let your themes be things
Let them be let them be not things
And yeah, I mean speaking of not things I had a great week
You
Might want to you might want to think about this before you say it
Nah, thinking is for thinking is for those racist alt-right nazi trolls like critical drinker. Ugh
Can you please not mention him? I don't want him associated with effort. We should shorten his name to crinker
crinker
Crinker it's the crinker
Crinker that sounds a little like that sounds like a diaper themed villain
The crinker. Oh, no. Oh, no
something you'd see in
What would that be a furry convention? I feel like a cartoon to some guys. Oh, no
Why did you go there? Why can't we get away from there? I never went it's just what i've heard
I don't want to think about it. Don't don't say it. Don't think it. Don't say it. Don't think it
Yeah, we didn't talk about my warfare like at all. We should do that, right? That was the thing we're gonna do
Modern warfare sucks. Oh, okay. I'll temper that. All right. I will temper that with the re
Wolf is just being emotional because we saw the campaign. We'll do it that way
All right. Let's start with the part that all right. We'll start with the best part. All right
The campaign is the best part. So I I I actually I know spoilers actually
I know the story isn't like amazing but people, you know, they want to that exactly much to spoil the plot's pretty like
Yeah, it's pretty straightforward call of duty. Here is why you were in place shooting russian
Yeah, it's pretty pretty basic stuff. Nothing complicated
There's some good stuff from a gameplay perspective like there's that one mission where you're like you're not shooting anything
But you're like controlling the cameras and directing some chick to oh, actually I hated that
Oh
Yeah
That was one of the parts of that mission. I actually liked I I didn't like it
That was kind of neat
So that there there are some levels that kind of break up the standard call of duty shooty shooty
Which and I think that the standard shooty shooty was the best part of the game. I think it's done really well
the
I will I will praise modern warfare for its incredibly good sound design
And graphically it's stellar. It looks amazing runs really smooth
I had everything basically cranked up as high as it would go except for the cutscenes
The cutscenes are the most
Which is a shame because one they're cutscenes what loading should there be but they're like the most beautiful cutscenes
I think i've seen in a video game
They are so well animated and they're put to complete waste because they're like covering up loading screens or something
So they keep yeah, even on on my big rig and
Big rig on my good rig and rags is far better rig
I have
Stuttering on the cutscene. Yeah, my game was running on an ssd. My processor is an i9 9900
And I have a 2080 ti I don't think sli was on for this
And they were still stuttering for like the first third
Of the cutscene, which is a shame because wolf is right
These are some of the most if not the best cutscenes in a video game i've ever seen
Like they they really do a good job of rivaling blur cutscenes and I thought those were the best
Like these are border. It's it's the cutscenes are so good. It's almost like why not just live acted
I mean you could
So good you could reasonably trick me with at least a few of the shots into thinking it was live action
If I was seeing it completely out of context, oh, yeah, if they mixed in live action segments with the animation
I wouldn't be surprised at all and it's so sad
I feel so bad for the animators because their work went completely to waste because of horrible optimization
Um, yeah for the loading screens. Um, yeah, yeah
Especially multiplayer which is and then how smooth the multiplayer is is probably going to be my greatest praise about it. Unfortunately
Um, I don't think that the the multiplayer from modern warfare is very good at all. I I will say and i'm
I'm not being hyperbolic whatsoever
Piccadilly is one of the worst maps I have ever played in any multiplayer game in my entire life
Yeah, like it's top 10 maps are terrible
The maps are actually really i've played a lot i've played a lot of shooter games in my life
And I don't I honestly don't think that i've played a game with worse maps
In modern warfare's I don't know if it's because I can't remember
all of the
Maps of every game i've ever played before but I don't know if i've ever come across a map
Where I have been actively running away from it constantly
Yeah, when we played it just a couple days ago every time it came up. We backed out and reached right a
Different match because it was just it's a horrible map. Did you say there's nothing good about it?
Yeah, piccadilly. Okay. Yeah, i'm just gonna say people have guessed I get a job
But like all the maps there there are no maps that I really enjoy
There's not a single one that i'm like, yeah, this map plays really well. There's no terminal from modern warfare 2. There's no
Most of the maps from black ops 1 I think are pretty good. Yeah, I don't think that years down the road
There's gonna be there's no iconic map here that people are gonna, you know, save her for years to come
There is no
Point where i'm like they need to
They need to stop piccadilly. It needs to be taken out of rotation. It's that bad
And the rotation itself is horrible. I mean there's maps. I haven't even played in the game
Yeah, the you know, I was complaining about like the farm map. I was talking to you about that
I wasn't a huge fan of I haven't played that
Now in like in like 50 maps
Because because I played the beta like the open beta and there is like this kind of foresty map
I have not played that once since the game actually came out
Yeah, there are some maps that i've only played one time and there are probably maps I haven't played but there are some i've played
The amount of times i've played piccadilly compared to any other map and it's the worst map in the whole game is just
Insulting. Yeah, so I mean the I think the weapon balance is tragic
Oh, it's it's even garbage like the I don't remember my call of duty standards. I think that the weapon balance is a travesty
I don't know. I don't know what its actual name is
But the gun that's pretty much just the olympia from black ops 7 25
Yeah, it is the worst. It is the most overpowered shotgun. I think i've seen you thought the spaz 12 from modern warfare 2 was
Oh, you thought that was bad. Wasn't it more warfare 2 as well that had the um,
What are they called the model? 1887s? Yeah, you could do it. We had to get nerfed because they were too powerful
Yeah, you could dual wield shotguns
This spaz 12's range though was what was insanely
It was it was just just a monstrous but this this shotgun legit kills it
Insane right and i've played with all of the shotguns and that one is just
The m4a1 and olympia are the only two guns that are even worth using in the game
The m4a1 being so popular is is definitely tied to the fact that it's overpowered as well
But it's also the idea that when you start out with the game
You have a choice of like two assault rifles including that one to level
And the problem with this game is it takes like fucking 10 years to get all of the attachments for um,
Oh, yeah, man
I haven't unlocked a suppressor for any weapon yet
And so when you're faced with oh you've unlocked another five assault rifles
But you've got like all of your attachments for the m4a1 and it works. You're like, so why would I use anything else?
Like I don't want to go all the way back to having no attachments again
Well, yeah, the game doesn't encourage you to use different weapons
It's a game that encourages you to pick a weapon and stick with it
um in that weapon that in that weapon that you pick is going to be the m4a1 because you want to
Kill everybody and it's the best at that at every range that exists and the claymores in this game are absolutely
Unbelievable. There's like I think i've been killed by more claymores in this game than I have collectively over every other call of duty game
I I think that probably 80 percent of my deaths are
M4a1 in 725 also
Yeah, I've only just unlocked the ak by the way and i'm starting to use it i've decided that i was just like yeah
I'll just i'll just commit to this one. Even though i've lost all my attachments now
Well, there was uh, there was the I mean the
The foul what's the point of using a foul?
If it takes two to three bullets on a semi-automatic weapon with extremely high recoil to kill somebody
Why not just laser them down with any automatic weapon? That's the thing
The marksman rifles are worthless absolutely worthless
Sniper rifles are fine because they're mimi, you know, you could you don't get killed by it much because
Everyone uses the m4a1 like I know I sound like a broken record, but like seriously we're talking
Like I the m16a3
Was less abused in battlefield 3 than the m4a1 is in this just for to give battlefield players a um an understanding
Yeah, as much as I know that this camping in all games, there's a lot of camping in this case
This game there there's a couple things that contribute to why camping is such an effective thing in this game in particular
Um number one is that footsteps are extremely loud even when you're even when you're crouch moving
You can hear people's footsteps from a very long distance
So it encourages encourages you to not move by moving. You don't just have the disadvantage of your changing positions
But it's also because people literally can hear you coming from a pretty substantial distance
So people will wait for you
But also it's both a good and bad thing to a degree, but the graphics of this game are really good
The game is legitimately gorgeous
And what that also means is that multiplayer maps are particularly cluttered with lots of props. There's furniture
There's stuff on the walls
There's caution tape and cones and clutter and barrels and all sorts of stuff littering these maps everywhere
So it takes a long time over and over and over you have to play these maps
And kind of commit to memory where all the stuff on the map is because people blend in with a lot of the clutter and junk
That's in the maps because it's more realistic looking
uh, there's uh, we were talking about it a bit before we started that that cave map and
Whatever desert area that's in
In the cave. There are so many occasions where i'll just look over where someone is sitting
But I can't see them because the lighting and you'll see the name and then yeah
Then they'll you'll die before you even get to shoot at them
It's a very very camp heavy game. There are lots and lots of campers. Um with the ion sights on guns
I end up just being like shoot
Is that a tag shoot? Is that a tag? That's a tag shoot shoot shoot shoot. Like i'm getting something
Yeah, it's a um
Perks like cold-blooded and stuff that keep you off the radar from uavs and things suppressors to keep you off the mini map
That stuff is so incredibly valuable in this game
Um, and if you don't play the default classes, which I don't think you can rank up actual guns with
If you use the default classes one of them has a suppressor on the uh, the aug sub machine gun
Um, you're you really are kind of at a disadvantage
It's
The gameplay itself isn't particularly satisfying the game has a very low time to kill
Uh weapons are you know, typically as typical in call of duty weapons are very accurate very deadly
um
and
Perhaps in this you can okay. Okay. I didn't I didn't know because I after I
Unlock to the ability to create custom classes. I haven't used gone back to the defaults yet. That's why I asked
but
man, this game is
he who sees the other person first is going to win
and that is a
Problem in a lot of video games, but I feel in this game
It's like doubly so as as fast as people die
And as much as the gameplay encourages you to camp and be extremely defensive
It just isn't that fun to play you just die like that to people that you never see
To people that you have no idea are there
Um, it's really not fun. It really isn't that fun to play i'll go as far as saying i've been having fun
But I think it's waning
uh
It's souring for me quite a bit because when I first started playing I was like, this is great
This is probably the best call of duty and
Since black ops one, but as I go forward, especially with like all the issues with multiplayer
It's starting to remind me why I hated call of duty in the first place
and
Like even when they make a new engine, they can't help but fuck it up
And I gotta wonder like i've i've been giving them like 10 years of chances
I don't know if i'm really willing to do it anymore because even if they try to go back to their roots
They still manage to screw it up. Yeah, I mean it's it's still a it's still a fairly fresh new game for me
And i'm gonna sink more hours into the multiplayer to make sure that you know
My impressions are confirmed if they are or changed if they're not
Um, because I want to try to be as fair to it as possible, but so far
Uh, i'm not having a good time with it. Uh, I think the campaign's enjoyable and I liked it. I played it through in one sitting
Uh for two reasons one because I was having quite a bit of fun with it
But also because it was quite short and I just finished it
Um, that sounds like something ben would say
Who's ben? I don't even know who ben is but
The multiplayer I I guess if you are the kind of person who likes call of duties you might
If that kind of game really appeals to you, you might enjoy it, but I have enjoyed call of duties in the past
Um this one I I really don't don't care for. Um
Really not my thing
uh, i'm i've already gone back to
I've already gone back to um
Mordhau and killing floor seven days to die and other games
They're just not very good and
Tans because and I played it on I played the campaign on the default difficulty as I do for all my reviews
I always play I always make sure to play at least once through
On the default difficulty because that's supposed to be the standard that the devs kind of
Have for most people and it's going to be the mode most people play it through
So for you know reviews i'll play through on the default difficulty
Um, I i'm it wasn't like easy easy. It wasn't difficult
Um, but I thought I thought that for a default difficulty. It was about where it needed to be
Um, you see I you always gotta play them on like the hardest difficulty because I remember playing uh when I reviewed the force unleashed
I realized there were a lot more issues with that game when you play it on the highest difficulty because
On the higher difficulties you get killed by so much more bullshit than you would unlike normal
and bad level designer, uh
Enemy design is far more apparent when you play on a higher difficulty. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I think that
I think while I was playing through the game
I wasn't I might go through and play some of these levels on higher difficulties to see what it's like
But i'm almost certain that I won't enjoy it on a higher difficulty because I feel like even in normal difficulty
I felt like sometimes you just you would just die unfairly
Yeah, the call of duty has never been particularly good with its difficulty. I remember black ops one in modern warfare two just being
absurdly difficult
not because they were like
Challenging but because they just bluff up how the the airplane mission in cod four on veteran
So like which one was that it was it wasn't like a main campaign mission. It was like a bonus. Oh afterwards the oh
The the mile high club
Yeah thing. Yeah
Also, wilder war was the one that I found the most difficult to do on veteran the grenade spam was absolutely insane
I took a picture on my old phone. I don't have the picture anymore
But it was when I was playing world war over friends house. We paused it and as soon as I hit play
I took the photo. I had 11 grenades
notifications on my screen
We'd never remember
There was a in modern warfare 2 the mission were ghosts that uh were ghost dies
Um that final rush out of the house toward where the plane is is just it's it's terrible
It's horribly designed and you wouldn't know that if you only played it on regular
Because it's not that big of a problem, but when you get shot once or twice you can still keep going but
It's ridiculous. Yeah, it's not like halo on higher difficulties. Um
In fairness halo 2 on
Legendary is absolutely bullshit. There's no it's a broken game
But I would still i'd much rather play through a halo game on legendary than a call of duty campaign on
It's oh, yeah
Hardest mode because you just you just die
And you die fairly quick even on normal difficulty
So i'm not exactly going to rush
Into playing the campaign on a mode where you die even quicker and enemies can be all around you and sometimes it's just hard to
see enemies
Because there's a lot going on
I mean ultimately though on normal difficulty. Certainly. I really like uh, I really did like the campaign
It honestly was good, uh by call of duty standards. Certainly it was
Um, i'd still say it's it's weaker compared to
Some of the really good ones. You'll be able to see how it goes over time. It breaks up a lot of the
I don't know. I I guess the formula
Um, there's there's a lot of missions and segments where you just do different stuff
That isn't just pointy and shitty
I'm, sorry uncompetitive says something just
Unbelievably stupid halo 2 is only broken on mcc. You've never played halo 2 outside of mcc then
I'm, just telling you straight up you you play grave mind on legendary and tell me that that is well designed
Like I love halo 2 that maps like you you're objectively wrong. I'm competitive which is it's which you know
That's kind of par for the course. It's uncompetitive. He's never said anything correct in his life
But yeah, I mean if if you like call of duty, I suppose you'll like this but
I like
Better multiplayer games just not to sound crass
But I I just don't I just don't think that call of duties
Generally in the top tier of multiplayer's you have to go back pretty far to get to that point
um
I I doubt it will surprise you but for call
I think call of duty people who like buy call of duty games every year will probably get what they want
Um, sure. Yeah
But I don't think that for a lot of people this game is going to convince you that
Call of duty is something. Yeah caught his back. Um
That's fine
It's back to being mediocre rather than just outright horrible. I guess that's that's something
And also you do have to have you have to you do have to install battle net and
Activision blizzard is kind of a
They're kind of together topic right now
not to mention uh
It has online always online drm at least on pc. I don't know if it's the same with consoles
So eventually even the campaign is going to be
Worthless you won't be able to play it when the battle net servers go down
Um
So, yeah, um
I ultimately there are better games to play. Um
I call to just by titanfall 2. Yeah, just by titanfall 2. Uh
By titanfall 2 we should
You need to have titanfall 2
Just didn't just don't really care multiplayer is not very good. I hear there's a big overhaul coming. That's what i've heard
That's what leaks suggest. That's what people have been saying to me. I hope it's true. I really do. Hope it's true
I hope they delete piccadilly. I hope they do it
Yeah at sometimes you've just got to be like, you know what?
We clearly didn't play test this map like all the maps. None of the maps are good
But this one stands. I wouldn't go that far. I'm not sure about that. I don't know
I don't know if you're being a bit harsh there because like
I i'd say there's a couple of I wouldn't say any of them are particularly
Most of the I I would say some are just fine
Yeah, i'd say that for the most part i'd say at least 50 to 60 percent of the maps are like, okay
They're serviceable, but they're not anything workable. They're not anything great. There's nothing stand out. Like there's no
Uh modern warfare 2 terminal there's no
I
I'm trying to think of what was great in black ops
But people are just going to say nuketown and I would argue that nuketown was the worst thing that's ever happened to call
My problem is the names of the maps
Yeah, and after it's been a long time since I play black ops one of the multiplayer
uh when it a part of me wonders if the reason why I think there's such a
Broadly very negative reception to the maps in this game is because the mechanics encourage camping and you die so quickly
And i'm wondering if that plays a big part in why people think the maps are so bad because it seemed
It's it seems to be a lot of people say the maps are bad even as I casually browse some reviews
There was there was a consistent mention about the maps are terrible or the maps are not very good
So something is definitely up
um
Whether or not that's due to the actual map design itself or whether or not
The maps are just there are if the mechanics don't complement the maps. Well, i'm not sure
But maybe we'll see as time goes on
Um, I know if you took like mordhau maps, for instance, they they would work terrible in a call of duty game
You know, you need to have maps that complement the game mechanics
I agree with that and I feel like they might have just failed at that
I think they just made the maps in the maps
I was trying to think of like structure rather than including how they actually play out
You know, I mean like oh, it's good because piccadilly is fucking
Terrible because like one of the because I mainly play domination and so that whole center area
It's just chaos you get killed if you walk out there
And if you don't it's not any better on any other
Mode either like tdm is my go-to mode
Well, the reason I was mentioning domination is because one of the points two of the points are so far away from each other
That once they're taken by a spawn from each team, they really will ever change hands
Because you just you the team keeps spawning there and so no one can really take it unless they rush it
And then they only ultimately switch and then it's the center one that you just fucking suicide run until someone catches it and then you
Just have to camp and keep covering it. That's what everyone does
There is more camping spots on that map than I think has ever been in a map
One of the reasons is because the maps don't seem to fall generally in video games there is a
Like maps have lanes to some degree you see this in counter strike you see this in a lot of call of duties
Where people can move around in lanes and double back and things like that. Um, a lot of these maps seems to seem to sort of
Maybe break up this formula piccadilly certainly does it's almost like an arena
Instead of a typical map, but like an arena with a bunch of buildings around
Yeah, there's so many angles where you can hide and there are so many lines of sight where you can shoot anything or be shot at
anything
It makes just moving around extremely dangerous
And like people will tell you it's like well, it's your fault for running out and it's like, okay
So just picture yourself. You're looking at the flag and you're like, I gotta get there and you're like, where can I be shot from?
It's like 17 places. All right, check one two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and it's like they're all clear
Walk forward shot dead and you're like, oh
well
That was fun and it's like well, maybe you should just camp add to the 17
Yeah, i'm gonna play super tactical too. That's what they say this it's tactical you have to play tactically
That map encourages
Like a tutorial for camping. It's like you need a camp in order to you know, make this map work for you
And that's the wings of redemptions favorite map in the entire game like hackney yard
I like to a degree
But I think you're right about the whole like if everybody's very encouraged to camp
Anyway, then any map is going to get damaged by that as a whole just because that's the attitude everyone's sort of developing
Yeah, um, I feel
I
It really is a damn shame because the game runs really well. It's very responsive. The gun plays pretty good
Um, yeah, it sounds great
It looks amazing
But all of that stuff is just window dressing for what lieth beneath
and unfortunately, um
Like like the gun customization of the game pretty extensive pretty darn extensive
But that's the kind of thing that should complement a good game
Not something that should be relied upon to make a a bad game better
The best weapon customization in the world can't save bad gameplay
My my conclusion weird to describe the whole game is
Yeah, yeah, it's it's I mean
I mean if they if they do that overhaul like you said rags, then i'll be like inclined to at least
Yeah, i'll try to try yeah, because I don't have anything against the formula you could say
Yeah, but it's like in its current state i'd rather just go play
The single player games that I haven't gotten around to yet
Well, I I know a while back there was talk about them taking call of duty and make in splitting up the single player and multiplayer
Um, I don't know clearly they never did that
But this is the kind of game that makes me really wish they did because if you could buy the single player for 20 bucks
Man, i'd say fucking everyone should go for it. No question about it
but
Tacking on the multiplayer and the spec ops to it
Uh, it's just I haven't even tried this back up. I haven't even done
I tried gun fighting 2v2 with randomized weapons. I haven't tried that yet and I will
Um, that's one of the things on my little list i've got on my note pad
To try out so but but all this has been in the frame of typical
regular multiplayer
um
So we we shall we shall see what becometh
of
of old
duty
I have provided you folks a link to a watch together
Uh, because I suppose that is our intro the other thing we haven't really talked about is uh, that film came out called joker
Oh wolf. What did you think of that film called joker?
Well, i'll summarize it this way
I I watched it three times last night was my third time and yes, I wasn't even bored
It's as good as the last jedi then I would say
unironically
It's like one it's rising up to like one of my favorite movies ever. I don't know where i'd rank it
It's it's not lord of the rings or gray good or the gray good. I don't want to mix that up
But it's still really good. I really really love it
People are saying you wouldn't get a
standalone, uh campaign for 20 bucks. It's like well
It's not very in the blind forest. I was gonna say i'm sure you can
Just in a leasing tale. Let me go through all the lists of games. I have better
I mean obviously a triple-a budget with you know, it definitely looks like a triple-a game
triple-a budget or at least like maybe not triple-a budget, but like triple-a quality almost is uh
um
God, why can I not think uh hellblade? I think that was 30 bucks wasn't it? Yeah something like that
Yeah, it certainly understood its scale. Um, and it's not like it's it and to be fair
It's not like you're making it on its own assets would be there would be a great deal of assets that would go between them
um
So i'm i'm I I don't know
I I think I don't think that's unreasonable
But I think that they know that a lot of people
I i'd be curious what the statistics are for call of duty
How many people buy it for the multiplayer and how many buy it for the single player?
Because I feel like I might be surprised if I put out a number just randomly off the top of my head
Um, so I would be curious to see
How many people buy it for both or I don't know how many people buy it for each?
I'm, not sure
Um, are you in the wash together?
Oh, yeah, let me click the uh, click the button here. You know, we gotta watch jack sparrow feet michael bolton
we're gonna say
Jack sparrow
Do you think they have to pay for this?
To be on the front page. Oh
It's kind of because it's on it's always this video some other one in the panda video
Oh, um, I guess, uh very slight detour. Um, also I I don't know if it's up on exclusively games yet
I did a review for gears 5
Um, it is absolutely worth the uh price if you get it on the game pass
Xbox game pass is actually legit amazing for pc. It's a really worthwhile service to get
Especially because you they have like a deal now where you can start off for like an a dollar a single dollar
For your first month at least
so that alone
It's it's already even at the it's like ten dollars as a normal price. You can bundle it with your pc and your xbox
And it's like a five dollar a month thing for pc now
But gears 5 is absolutely worth it
uh to get on game pass, uh
The the multiplayer is okay. Horde mode's fine
Escape is meh, but the campaign is pretty darn good. I I really like the campaign of gears 5
Um, so as this slight detour just in quick. All right. Hey, how come it doesn't say rags on your thing anymore?
Um, i'm outraged by this
Why doesn't rags you deleted your watch together account?
No, I definitely didn't do that unless there's something about watch together. We should know
Are they are they blizzarding themselves?
If they denied rags is like have they announced overwatch to diablo 4 and more dlc for world of warcraft as well
No, we're up for their really stupid decisions. Let nobody go to settings and then you gotta go to
Um, I can't wait for doom 4 no diablo 4 released by wash together
How come i'm i'm actually not on my little um
On my little profiling here thingy
Not that it really matters, but it doesn't but i'm curious why that is the uh, i'm curious why that is the case
Yeah for context since like efap started people have requested. We cover jenny nicholson's video on tlj and it's constantly been
Geared up to be covered once, you know stars align same for shawn's video on tlj which he's unlisted by the way
And they're pretty interesting
Um, also, it's a wonderful icon wall
Well, you know we're talking about joker and jab jab you you should have collapsed murray. You should have collapsed murray
um
Yeah, uh, she she's gonna take our joker the uh, I mean it'll be interesting to just check it out
You know as as people have wanted us to check out one of his videos for ages. I actually watched here. Um
A suicide squad one years ago and I liked it a lot
So it was pretty good and then I watched her rogue one one and I remember being like hmm
Is okay, and then at lj one and I was like, oh my goodness
like oh
Oh that takes you out back to the the home page. I guess that's what that's where that takes you
So
After the 2060 election jab became joker like
You can handle the loss
I still love that meme of uh
The american political map and it's all yellow and it just has jab doing that
I know when the canada
When the canadian elections just happened recently. They were the canadian memes where jab had won all the pro
He just he came back he was the sleeper candidate jab bush and he won it all
Toodaloo trudo
Speaking of trudo. We watched dalen tucker versus evil yesterday
And one of the one of the people in there looks like justin trudo
Actually a young just like trudo. Yeah, but that was a
Great movie. We get distracted because we're always going on tangents, but i'm sorry for being stupid, but who's jab?
It's like trust me. You're not stupid for not knowing who jab is. I don't even think
Family knows who jab he was designed to be forgotten. That's his purpose
jab is
The only president in your family
The only one in your family to be just a miserable disappointment
Yeah, the thing is if you ask me what jib's politics were I couldn't tell you
Only thing I know about jab is that he asked everyone to clap one time
Pretty much the end of his career
Yeah, uh
And just his back and forth with trump was always like hilarious. It's just quality tv
That was I don't even remember his back and forth with trump
You'd just be trying to like downplay everything and then trump would just walk all over him
So you should be like so it's just typical jab bush wasn't him
Did was he or someone else who said um, you can't bully your way to the presidency or something like that?
Oh, I would totally believe jab would say that he is the kind of guy we did
Not even in like an insulting way would I say that trump bullied himself to the he bullied his way to the top
That's what politicians should do
I think I first off i'm an i'm a strong advocate that we should bring back bullying into schools
um
And in politics we should have more
More bullies. We need to have more bullies up there or fucking don't take your shit
Oh, jeb did say that
Oh, it's perfect, of course he did
jeb jeb jeb
It's such a bad name as well
I love that. That was his his campaign slogan too. It was just jeb with an exclamation point
I want him to come back. I want him to go again. He's so much fun
He's like the autistic child that you're just like oh
God, jeb bless your heart
Bless your heart. I would unironically be fine with jeb running in every single election
He can even choose a different party every time despite it. Did you just be the jeb party? Yeah the
Yes party he never ages he's that age forever
Just like I mean, maybe we should make a president. He's clearly
Yeah, you know if we if he does run for president again though people are going to go to his rallies just to be like
Ask us to clap
They're just gonna if I leave and i'm not asked to clap once and I want my money back
Cheated someone said i'm a jeb a crat
Are you are you a jeb a grat jeb a crat or a jeb jeb looking would be a republic
Jeb
Republic rat republic jeb
Public jeb I would vote for him jeb publican just so I could get that
One vote. I'd know it was me then that'd be great
Um, anyway, I wouldn't vote for jeb for the meme value
I think we all would actually oh jeb jeb. Oh jebkins president. Jeb bush. There's an alternate universe where
Jeb bush became the president
Jeb up. Oh god, I can't even say the universe
He saved the universe the union all lives everything was better
All lives matter to jeb all jebbs matter
All jebbs matter all one of them
Jeb's out jeb's up. Don't shoot
Jeb's out for jab
Jabs for jeb
she's jenny nelson made a made a joker video and a lot of people wanted us to cover it because
Between the three of us we i'll say we enjoyed joker as a film. I thought it was right. It's great
I really liked it. It was all right. Yeah, that's some that's some of that good stuff that joker. We're gonna check this out
Uh with all of you along with us. It's gonna be fun
We're gonna check out what argument she has and how she felt the video is called
Why I didn't like the joker, which is fine. I want to get that out there, you know
Find not like it. It's what comes after that is usually the um, yeah, it's the why is she made out of plastic?
um
No, that's what that's what women
Who wear too much makeup look like they look like fake people
I think it's makeup plus the fashion program a light that's shining right into her. Maybe jesus. I've never seen anyone
Yeah, I feel like there must be like some big studio light just shining right in her face
Because i've never seen someone that just had like so few facial features
Yeah, that skin is like a piece of paper. Nice. Oh god, you know what it reminds me of it's like the uh, the buffy remaster
Oh god
maybe
It's like the game has turned way up on this image here
Well, why does she have a porg bigger than eba plot? Oh god. I was
Is she a tlj fan
Well as far as I know, yeah
Oh god, hold on. I gotta take a piss before we start. Oh, she has the evil bb8 too
She has the evil bb8 and then she has bb8 bb8. I'll have you know, it's nazi bb8
Or
The it's the alternate universe where bb8 was conscripted and his values would just they would changed also that is a big
There's a chunky bb8 on the left
He had uh too many space pies
I know people are gonna say you guys this is all a bunch of ad homies
You guys aren't focusing on the right stuff. It's like no, no, no, there's more to come. We're just we're just her arguments
We're just neutral right now. I don't I haven't even addressed them. So
If you put it in your video
Then it is fair game for commentary though. It probably does help the narrative that we're horrible sexists
Even though we do this with literally every single person we have a cover
We find it interesting that people would have a composition. There's a framing for everybody's videos, right?
We assume there's a reason you put anything there
so apparently she put out a tweet ranking all the star wars movies, um and
Episode eight is number one. Oh jesus number
Uh, why does that do this to me?
Four then three then five then six
Um, okay rogue ones at the bottom rogue one is number ten. So damn your ability to jenny nickels
Nicholson nickels nickels jenny her her her ability to recognize quality is seriously in question
I'm looking forward to telling wolf this when he gets back. That is that is very very interesting
Number one
It definitely made people feel stuff that movie it really does someone just said episode seven isn't even on her list
Oh five six. Yeah, her her list doesn't even have episode seven on it. Which is not good enough to be included
I guess I guess it's not even
I
I
All right, well, I mean yeah, I guess we're watching this we're just giving it giving it a minute
We had to veer off into star wars again. Wolf is still a long intro wolf is still glooping is flooping
If you know what I mean. Oh, he's pooping the blooping. Mm-hmm. Well, I'm sure we've done any second now
Well, I guess we could comment on
Uh, I don't know about the light blue
maroon
Mustard combination we got going. Uh, she wants to try and have colors that could be
connected vaguely to joker
I guess I say that acidly
I guess I sure wolf guess what? Huh? We just found out she thinks tlj is the best one
Maybe this wasn't the right efap to come so she is retarded
It's confirmed
Okay, so good, I know I know that's an ableist slur
You're an ableist slur your existence alone. You always hide your ableism between words as well rags sentences
Yeah, that's all right. Well secret evil. No, I didn't hide it. I just fucking called her retarded
No, that was see that was hidden between two other words. Ah, that's right
Someone said she's hiding jeb in her room
Jeb's in the pork
Jeb's in the pork ready to first wrapped in there
At some point in the video we'll just see his face like behind the eye screaming
No, no, that's that's where his his next rally is. It's inside that porg. He's having a campaign rally
You know the are you sure about that?
She sets the porg on her lap and then he says something and she just claps
Good job. Yeah, the John Cena. Are you sure about that?
It's just she says tlj is great and jeb comes out of the mouth of the porg. Like are you sure about that?
Please please do not clap
Jebney nickels
So, yeah, uh, where is 0 0 0 0 0 0 so you guys get to push further than that
no
I don't know. How do we go 33 minutes? Oh, no. Oh god
It's 34 minutes. It's just her opinion guys
Oh, no, I was supposed to be on a diet. Now. I feel like I need
I've had so little to say about proper clickbaity popular films that I was actually
How can a film be clickbait yeah, I think she means the video is made about them a clickbait
Maybe rewind it. I'm sure there's some out there but
actually before you're dealing with a lot going on and
Um clickbait so I saw joker and I was so relieved
I've had so little to say about proper clickbaity popular films that I was actually in the middle of drafting
Does she just mean films that get you clicks?
I get but well, that's just anything
Literally anything you film that people know about yeah
Interesting way to describe it. Like the avengers infinity war is just a clickbaity movie end game is just a clickbaity movie lord of the rings
Is just a clickbaity movie like is everything popular instead of saying popular just swap it with clickbaity
You don't mean the same thing in her mind. I suppose. Yeah, I don't know. I think she means something else
This is the first video i've ever seen from this woman
I don't need five seconds
I don't want there to be another video. I see from this woman. You're kidding me
The teal drink one's gotta be worse than this and that'll happen
You know her face looks like like the npc's from mass effect andromeda
Oh, no, I see it. Yeah, her skin doesn't look like skin, you know, it's really
I feel like I need to play a video game to cover up the face. Oh, she looks like an android
No, because x machina had some pretty good androids. No, I'm not like not like not like those androids
But like like a fake. Oh, oh, you mean like the working joe's from alien isolation
So I don't have the exact same face. Yeah, I remember those ones. It's very it's like I had there's a robot talking to me
I
She's like no i'm a real person. You're like, um
Are you though lj is the best star wars movie? I'm kind of
I could picture you getting to the point of feeling you're like a sober like game. You're like, oh god, he thinks it's real
Can you imagine her like with the the expression she's wearing in this pause screen like bursting out of a door and like
Stalking you with a knife
Yeah, I don't know I guess go straight to psychopath fair enough
I mean I I could see something there. There's this development. There's a lot of toys
like the equivalent of
like crazy cat lady crazy
star wars droid lady
This has been a long six seconds
Let's see what else she has to say and I was so relieved
I've had so little to say about proper clickbaity popular films that I was actually in the middle of drafting a video about the
Dog's purpose trilogy. Um, anyway, I didn't think it was very good
I mean, actually I guess it was sort of dog's purpose movie. I didn't know there was one
I don't know. I heard of the one I didn't know there was
There's a lot of cuts here like
Like a lot of oftentimes very shortcuts. I didn't think it was very good
There's a cut before that and after that is his style. I guess I remember that
Like lots of I know like riley does it and some other people do it where it's just constant cuts
like you can't talk for more than a sentence or two before you have to cut it and
Take a breather gather your thoughts stop analyze what's just happened
Gather your mental fortitude if I have if I have two sentences that have been read out, uh in a in a recording
the uh
Naturally right next to each other. I sometimes you know, inject space between them to make it sound a little bit more natural and spacious
but then
Every has the opposite of this. Yeah, that's what I mean. I'm like that. I do literal opposite of that oftentimes
Sorry, it's just it's some it's something like strange. I don't I guess it's like a style that people do
Yeah, it's uh, I remember back when youtube started it was that was one of the biggest thing because I remember there's that animated video from
I can't remember who it was, but i'm talking super early where they they make fun of vloggers
And they there's like this
One of the skits is like uh that they do jump cuts and there's a jump cut counter in the top left and they're just like hello
I am and they're just going all over the room. I guess it's like a million cuts
It's funny shit. Someone in chat probably knows what i'm talking about. I think um eager raptor had a voice in that at some point
But yeah, this was this was the style at the time, but I guess you know, some people still have it
I mean it like there's so many movies. I like less than this. There's such a heavenly glow coming off my porg
I'm gonna move the camera a little bit. I'm trying to be more fair about my face
heavenly glow
There's such a unironically she said there's such a heavenly glow coming off my porg
It's a sentence I never thought i'd hear
The tomb is overexposed right like her face just seems overexposed or at least super bright that room that room is already painted white
So it's not like you've got a dull
Color that'll soak up a lot of you know, a lot of the light and make it not seem as bright. This is a
It is a white room already
No, wait, let's put it back to 20. Here's strange. I mean off my porg i'm gonna move the camera a little bit
I'm trying to be more fair about my rating scale which admittedly does just consist of good and bad
So anyway, since this was entertaining, I would like to designate it as good kind of
But i'd like to talk about it a little more the setting the time period that's all really cool
Finally someone is acknowledging that the old timey show tune dancing clown man aesthetic just
Is kind of cool, but the story didn't really like
Do anything and back up before you get really angry. Yes. Well for you angry
What i'm not angry yet, but if she's expecting us to get angry
It's probably because she makes really bad argumentation and she's somehow cognizant of it, but didn't change it anyway
Yeah, I guess we'll see
Is everyone at 50 by the way?
I'm at 51
rags
I am at 51
Good do anything and back up before you get really angry. You'll still get angry. I'm not saying. Oh, it's boring
Where's batman? That's not my criticism at all
This whole movie kind of reads is one of those productions that like switch directors halfway through and they didn't get to complete their vision
um
That is how interesting you're gonna have to justify the hell out of that because i'm very curious
There was not a single point in this film that I thought even came close to being totally conflicting in terms of its production
Like the very end maybe just because it's different, but it all is a result of what came before it in a very direct way
Yeah, when you say different you mean?
I mean like where it goes from there was a fairly it's the closest to surreal that I think we get right
Sort of the one when he goes to the show and when there's the big riots and everything
That it I guess it's sort of different in the fact that it's a lot more loud and rowdy and stuff
But that's just well. Yeah, but like the riot was heading up to that
Exactly. That's what I said. Yeah, it's all it's all a result of what came before it and like tonally. I don't think it was anything
it
I never I never because you've seen those best of the worst
Episodes where they watch a movie and they say every once in a while
It's it's like the movie really did swap directors because it just turned into a different movie
Well, they used to do the same genre the dialogue all still seemed consistent
I don't know. Maybe she did that as Justice League to an extent like
There's right. Yeah
There's parts that just don't even feel like it's meant to be in that movie
Hashtag release the Snyder cut. No, no, no, no, no, no. We are not we're not doing that
Zach Snyder's never made a good movie in his life changed my mind
What is what do people usually reference as his best movie?
Is it watchman watchman probably even though I mean after reading the watchman comic I read or read the watchman movie
watched the watchman movie
And I really don't like it
A lot of people probably say 300
I mean, I like 300. I don't know if I 300's
it
It's fun. I mean, it's a fun action movie, but that's something I'd call great though. Yeah, it's very stylized
This not the style is probably the best part of the entire movie, but otherwise
All right, then
So 300 in watchman that's that's what he's got going for him, I guess and of course, uh, Justice League. Yeah
That movie's a miracle. It's a wonderful wonderful. Oh, he did the dawn of the dead remake. Oh
Oh, I don't think I ever saw the dawn of the dead remake
Don't watch the dawn of the dead. He also did sucker punch a lot of people don't like that
I haven't seen that. Oh, that's a film that's generally regarded as like like
Terrible. Oh, no. Oh, no. Did he hold on?
Zach
Someone said the owl movie. Am I is he referencing the one I think?
Guardians of oh, they did it. Oh he did
Okay, so
When I was a kid I used to read the guardians of ghoul books and they're like some of my favorite books as a kid
That movie is atrocious. The animation is beautiful. Everything else is atrocious
The owls and that I don't remember I saw it once and then I decided to never watch it again
Elijah would guard dns and I could just click it right here and see the
I I actually I accidentally put guardians of haggle
I'm, so sorry. Did that come up with something worse? It's trying to autocorrect it for for Elijah wood guardians of haggle
So I I clearly I don't know if I want to know about guardians of haggle. I fucked it up. I said behool that time
Gahool, it's just such a fuck
um
Yeah stars Elijah wood britney murphy Hugh Jackman was in it
Hugh Jackman. Oh, yeah
That's a 2010 movie. It had it was directed by zach snyder and you go weaving. Oh my goodness
They dragged so many talented people into such a horrible horrible. Oh my goodness. Oh, I mean
Elijah wood was in he was happy feet too
He was happy feet. He was happy
When you say happy feet do you mean happy feet one or happy feet two or both? There was a second happy feet movie
Yeah. Yeah, I know. I I found that out by accident too when I was like, oh my god
We have to see happy feet too
Do we really have to see
Oh god, I like how one of the when you type in guardians of the ghoul cast
One of the members is it just shows like the picture of the character from the movie not the actual actress's face
Meaning she's like nothing else
I was apple. I guess no one knows who actually who she actually is I guess
Adrienne defaria i've never heard of her before sam neil was in it too. Fucking hell who wasn't in this movie
Oh my goodness was ruby rosen
Helen mirin was in it sam neil. Oh my goodness
Who wasn't i'm sorry where we are supposed to cover the shitty video, but we got to talk about guardians of ghoul
I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry
You go weaving this in this. Okay. I don't see huge jackman in there
How will you even say huge ackman?
It said it says uh, it said huge ackman
Okay, because I want to because it's in order to go cool
Q
Old cast and crew. I need to
He did. Well, why doesn't it show him? He's like an a-list actor
That's thing whenever you put guardians of it auto it autofills to the alexi because the universe wants to forget guardians of ghoul
Hugh jackman voicing guardians of ghoul. No
I love reminding everyone that that exists. It's rude. Which character did he play he um
Uh
Because we going back to 2009 boys
um
Let's see. This is how terrible your video is jenny. We care more about guardians of ghoul by zach snyder. I mean
Sounds like a pretty interesting movie, you know
Interesting if you like bad movies, I guess in fairness. I remember the animation being really good, but the
Everything else is horrible
Are they planning on liking more of them considering it's a legends of the god. It's got like it's like
A 15 book series and they combined like the first three books into one movie
Into one very incoherent movie. My favorite part of the movie as well
My favorite movie or favorite movie my favorite part of the movie
Is that all the owls are flying around in daytime for like almost the entire film and it's like?
Oh
You know how we were talking about sucker punch. Um
Abby cornish is in guardians of ghoul as well. She's also in seven psychopaths
Oh, no
Oh, no, I love that movie
Jennie nickel bag. No, it's nickel bag
Like nickel back was in guardians. No, no, no
bag
Oh my god
Nickel back was in guardians of ghoul. They did the soundtrack guys
Kid rock was the star of guardians of ghoul
Bring in the alanies
Oh, we probably should eventually get back to this jenny nickel
All right, we're like three percent jenny i'm sorry. Okay, we're back. I'm not sorry
Not what it is at all. So that's bad. It has a pretty compelling setup
You like arthur at the beginning the things that make his life sad
Are generally pretty believable, but then the world around him just becomes so comically mean in such an over the top way
What kind of over the top way? All right
What kind of sheltered existence do you live where you think that people being mean in public is over the top and crazy?
So I grew up in the detroit area not downtown detroit but in the metropolitan area i'm glad you made it out alive. Yeah, well
Yeah, I guess I am too. I'm suicing. Yeah, whatever
So if you think that people aren't I mean the shit they showed in the movie is pretty tame
I mean I have people I know who like
Uh, I if they didn't kill themselves were like beat to the edge of death
And that that's like a good amount of people I know from that area
Let's let's try to what let's let's take what she's saying and let's go with what is the worst thing
That is done to him
He gets his ass kicked a couple times. Yeah, so he gets like yeah, I guess it'd be the train scene
That has to be the worst thing. Yeah, that's what comes to my mind. Um
And the thing is if you guys remember he threw the first punch in that scene
Yeah, they were really they grabbed him for sure
but
What i'm what i'm trying to suggest here is that um, you have three guys who are i'm guessing drunk?
Uh, I think that was implied
The kind of messing around they got this guy laughing at them obnoxiously, which if you do that in my town
You're gonna get someone wanting to punch you
Yeah
People will like most people are generally fine depends where you go to like around like in the south
Generally people are just a lot more mellow
But you go to the inner cities like that and people they got things to do and they don't put up with your shit and
especially when you're talking about this kind of world that he lives in people are generally poorer and
You know, they're they got a lot of problems and they're tense and
They don't put up with shits. I mean, that's just a lot of cities in general
but i'm
It's curious to me that someone who's sitting
Full of makeup with her fucking porg pillow
This in her really is telling us that it's just unrealistic what happens to him
Like it's over the top and unrealistic like man
Get out
I youtube's my job and i'm telling you to get out, you know
as
as uh
Anecdotal as it is
As someone who grew up in a life where I didn't
Not that I would want a giant porg plushie and lights on my bed
But as someone who grew up in what I am assuming is far worse conditions than she lives now
And saw the kind of I mean joker was pretty tame
When you mean was there any reason to assume that gotham as a city was in a decline in a society? Yeah
I mean, is there any reason for that? I don't know
Look at all the slums they're in constantly and uh, I watched the movie just last night
When he's walking to his apartment after he gets uh, the signs stolen from him
Uh right as it's panning over to the front of the building
You actually hear kind of faintly in the background some woman screaming. You can't really tell what she's saying
But I mean you you can tell it's a shitty area
Like the movie goes out of its way to try and paint it as a bad place to live
So I would like to
Draw everyone's attention. There's a website called. Hey jackass
Uh dot com which is about chicago
It's about predominantly chicago. Oh, yeah. Did you hear about that shooting that happened on uh, halloween with that little girl?
No, I didn't I I just heard of I saw like someone on twitter today. Um
Some girl got like shot in the neck in chicago on halloween as she was trick or treating. That's terrible
Damn, and you're telling me that that this what joker shows is unrealistic. Oh, what?
Well, I I bring it up because to date as far as i'm aware to date
There have been 1,960 people who were shot and wounded in chicago to date so far
Uh total now total who total shot has been
Oh, oh, sorry. I'm reading the statistics wrong
The total amount of people who have been shot is
2364 shot and wounded is 1960 shot and killed are 404. What's the time frame?
This year to date
Uh, well this oh man, this is kind of what i'm getting at with the whole like it could have been far worse
Um than what we see and by the way, uh, I was keeping an eye on chat apparently
I was wrong to say he throws the first punch. Um because he's punched in the chest
Yeah, I don't remember him throwing the first punch there. He like shoves him right shoves him off of him
Well, doesn't he go to he goes to try and punch and he misses
He tries to grab the bag and that's when everything breaks out because they take the bag from him
I've got like this memory of him swinging and missing and then they swing back and hit him
You probably did in the fight. I imagine he did swing a punch
I forget that specific detail. Well, it's it's not really that relevant to the point that uh,
The point is that in chicago almost 2400 people have been shot to date
So far and that's shootings. That's not beatings and assaults and that's just shootings
And that's only in chicago. We're not talking about
Detroit we're not talking about. Um
And this is I hate to pull I hate to pull up fbi statistics from chicago
But and this is like at night
They're alone because uh, doesn't the train caught empty at that point or is it there's two people is it in total throughout the carts?
Uh
It shows joke. It shows uh, joker shows the asian woman and it shows the three friends
I don't think it shows anyone else at least not in the carts that we see right. Um
Um, yeah, so I guess what i'm trying to get at is that uh seems
Seems almost probably like that. He was lucky
Uh that it wasn't much worse because it seems like a horrible city where horrible things are happening because things are pulling apart
Um, all right, this is interesting the the average, um, the average gunshot victim emergency room and hospital expense is
55 000
Damn don't get shot everybody
Avoid it. So you'll you'll want to die after you find the price tag on your life going on through. Uh, it's uh
from through um
Uh, the first let's see
What is the ninth month? Oh, yeah, here it is. Oh god. It was a 15 year old who shot the seven year old trick or treater
geez
Chicago everybody
Chicago
15 year old for you. Jenny. Nicholson. I I get the point we're trying to make
Is that there are places most places especially in america just fine. They're great. We're actually really safe except you go to these places
And it's really bad
When in alleyways or dark sideways at night downtown chicago and washington dc and baltimore
They'll detroit those places very very bad
It just baffles me when people like jenny or i've seen this criticism crop up so much like the violence is over the top
And it's like it's really not I mean, it's really tame
Look at chicago. Look at detroit. Look at what happens in the
Downtown areas. I mean the fact that he doesn't die in either of the beatings
And if you want to argue it's pretty
It's pretty inconvenient for him to have all these things happen in this short amount of time and I think the implication is that
No, no, he's had a lot of bad things happen over the course of his life
But these these events were concentrated so close together that it pushed him over the edge, right?
Yeah, but even that time period that happens before the
End and even then if we take out like the the bad areas of the city park
I'm gonna have to look it up because I don't remember the kid's name
But there's this situation where there's this like autistic kid and this kind of went viral like a couple years ago, I think
um
Where people were like literally beating the shit out of him filming it and just posting it online
Because he's autistic not because he's doing anything just because he's autistic. I'm sure someone in the chat will probably know the name
um
and it's like
People are there's a lot of scummy people in the world jenny
I know you live in a little bubble where you don't think that happens, but
To say that people
We can't even really say it's too convenient because it just happens to people far lesser than let's play it again
Laugh and get the actual semantics of what she said
I think she said there were two mean things that make his life sad are generally pretty believable
But then the world around him just becomes so comically mean in such an over-the-top way
The car will be that unrealistic then right
So I I went to the chicago police, uh department crime statistics for the city. This is through
And you could find the year to dates for
2018-2019 so far and when we talk about aggravated battery
Then it seems as if that's so far to date. Oh, we're gonna be we're gonna beat last year's, huh?
There's been five thousand three hundred and seven reported
A cases of aggravated battery
That's just the reported ones
Now those are just the reported ones. This doesn't include burglary theft motor vehicle theft, uh, robbery criminal sexual assault
and murder
Ironically people in the chat are referencing the the time there is that autistic trump voter who was kidnapped and like
Tortured I wasn't actually talking about that one. But that's just another example that
You can throw in there's a lot of thefts in chicago. Jesus
I want to find out who this was because I saw a video on it. At least in chicago
I don't know what they're getting paid, but it ain't enough
Wow, but yeah
Yeah, it looks like we're gonna good news chicago you're set to break some records this year
Well, either way, uh gotham is supposed to be portrayed as possibly one of if not the worst
Kind of city the fact that it ends with the city in turmoil and anarchy
Should be enough to probably imply that the state of it previously was was disastrous
Yes, that I guess the I guess the overall point is that if you believe that what happens to
Arthur in this movie if you believe that it becomes unrealistic in that sense
I think that says more about your view of the world
And it does you don't believe it how sheltered your upbringing was
Yeah, some people go through that and it definitely happens to people
Um, so I think we can move on I think we spend the time on
Many of these weird sad incidents on their own you'd kind of be like, okay
But they pile up so much that it just becomes absurd
That's a that's very interesting like that. They all pile up and it's absurd that they do is like man
There's a lot of cause and effect to the events though
Like the one in the subway could have been avoided if not
For his laugh, which we knew already and the fact that he was clearly made uncomfortable by the fact that someone was doing that to a woman
Well, it doesn't really matter that she's a woman just a person in general because he's one of the part of his character
He doesn't actually want innocent people to be hurt
Yeah, it's like maybe maybe some
Hmm
Maybe her personality is one that's more reserved. Um
That isn't standoffish that isn't aggressive that isn't assertive. It's very possible
I don't know if that's the case, maybe you'll get into less confrontations
But if you imagine arthur who's vulnerable in a variety of different ways
Well, then the risk factors for you being the targets of these things are being affected by this thing goes up
so
You could definitely argue that. Um a lot of the events sort of
uh
Inform each other as in the first beating gets him ready and interested in getting the gun which causes him to lose the job
So technically it's not like those are two random events, you know
Well, yeah, it's the he gets the sign stolen
So he's already
Pretty much on the track to being fired because he doesn't have it to return
And then it's the gun thing that just boom seals the deal and those are related
All of that stuff is related
I want to draw attention uncompetitive said at jay log bone stop saying the n-word with a hard e.r
A hard e.r. She's in chat. She just said no
Can't believe pressing and trying oh, yeah someone in the chat did come in and bring it up
It was uh, casey hines. That's the name of the the artistic kit. I was referencing
Oh
J long bone when you lose your channel don't say you weren't warren. She's uncompetitive by youtube's rule. She's allowed to say that
Oh my god, is this dude like
deranged
Wasn't he the same guy who said I reported your video because it had music. Yeah, and then I said back to him
That's not a thing. You wouldn't be you and then he was like how I trolled you
what
I also read this comment chain where he was
Calling me and rags racist by taking us out of context
Well, I was just I was actually gonna highlight those with youtube's rules
Like there's a shit ton of black youtubers that use the n-word all the time like they'd all be booted if that was the case
and um, uh, if you if you need some out of context stuff, man
Uh, we had we I had some spicy nazi speeches on wednesday in our rp on arches channel. Oh
I'm kind of i'm kind of proud of them. You know, they're pretty great
I I was oh man
Fatherland is was lucky to have a nazi vampire like me. I don't say that
She's been saying it for 10 years on youtube. Yeah, keep keep on keeping on jay long
There's lots of n's and i's and g's in the chat
I have I have no idea what that's for. No, I don't know what that could relate to
I'm confused if any are are they trying to spell ginger? Do we have a ginger in the chat?
We have a ginger in the chat. Apparently welcome guys, please
Acceptable shak. Yeah. Oh, yeah, use ginger. He's true. Oh, yeah
Um, sorry, jenny carry on
Found him just becomes so comically mean in such an over the top way any of these weird sad incidents on their own
You'd kind of be like, okay, but they pile up
I wish she was more specific because i'm just like but they all connect they're all over the course of more than just like one day
Right none of these things that ever happened in silicon valley where I live with my rich parents. Where does jenny nickels live?
No, we have been facetious there. Yeah, I because I I legit am
Curious like maybe you should
go
outside
Well, I don't know why she finds it so ridiculous, especially in gotham the way it's portrayed. I don't understand what's so hard to believe
Like if if our goal was to get beaten up when we lived in that place i'd be like should take us about 10 minutes
Hasn't the whole thing with gotham always letters, man
It ain't gonna be hard
Hasn't the whole thing with gotham even in the comics always been that it's like a really shitty city and that's why batman exists
Yeah, like batman is there to undo that element
Crime controls the city. That's the idea. Need I reference batman begins in the slum city
Where uh joffrey baratheon was just hanging out
Let's let's hope she has some more qualification, I guess
I hope so so much that it just becomes absurd a good example is the scene where his social worker tells him
That he's no longer going to be able to receive therapy or check-ins or whatever those were supposed to be
Yes, yeah
I'm listening intently. Where are you going with this jenny?
Because funding has been cut from the program. She tells him this and so okay, but then unprompted
She's like they don't care about people like you or people like me
Which was kind of what the implication had been but I guess the director didn't trust us to understand
What was going on? No, no, no, no, we we get it. It's the audience gets it it legit is
For her basically just saying straight up to him
Like we're gonna we're both loose. I'm losing my job. You're not getting your medicine. Fuck it
You know, they don't give a shit the whole point like from the first scene that she's in
Um, she's a victim of this too
Even in this scene this specific scene where this happens joker looks at her and he's like you don't really care about anything
I say do you
And it's that's shown in the first scene too
Yeah
Like does this person think people act the same after they've put their two weeks in that they did before they put their two weeks
Notice, I mean god
I can count on my fingers the amount of people that have put their two weeks in that i've worked with that actually stayed for that
Last two weeks. Yeah. I mean they were just uh
I can say it on mine because
Yeah. Oh, yeah, I have integrity. So I stay with my whole two weeks except my last job my last job. I just fucking left
Because fuck them
I know that man
Yeah, like a lot of people are like that once they know that their job is gonna be I mean you feel betrayed
A lot if you lose your job like that if your funding just gets cut and there's nothing that you had to do about it
It was just bad. It's basically bad fate a dark fate one might even say
Then who knows how you might act? I mean the fact that you could act in a
You know, it just just a glib
You know fuck it kind of tone. That's there's nothing unrealistic about that at all. I like that scene when she said that
Certainly trying to say this like oh, I just make it really obvious for the audience
Well, there's room to assume that she may have been able to just transfer to a different job or something
But now we know for sure that she's actually severely affected by this as well. I like um
Bs and chat summed it up really well
Uh, he said yeah, wait the lady was airing her frustrations in an effort to show they were both on the same team
It's a form of empathy. That's very true
What do you do with your co-workers if you're both in a shit job you talk about how shitty the job is with them
and we've talked before
achieving
multiple things at the same time like we now get as well insight into how this is affecting more than just
People like arthur
This is affecting the workers as well
The fact that she would actually express that to him as an attempt to make him feel slightly better that he's not personally vindicted
Victimized by the society as a whole right now. It's that it's all shit for everybody
like these these are the elements by the way that um
I think amiss by a lot of people who just like oh, where's the real evidence that the the city's in decline?
Like where where is it? It's like what do you what do you mean?
my brain the whole movie
um
But like I guess her point is like it's absurdly ridiculous that everything sucks
Everything's so bad. You even have this person being like, yeah, they hate me, too
It's like wow, we get it. This this place sucks, but I really didn't get that sense whatsoever
Yeah, I almost found it endearing that she was being that I thought it was endearing I liked her more because she said that
I thought it was very humanizing because it's it's letting the facade slip for a second the the idea that like oh
You don't give a shit. You're just a therapist who asked all the standard questions. How does that make you feel?
What do you think about that that sort of shit? But instead she's like hey, man, no one gives a shit about either of us
I think that because up to that point she was kind of clinical by the numbers detached
And that was really like the first thing that she said that was like, yeah, this is a person talking
Let's uh, see what else she has to say about I guess the director didn't trust us to
Understand what was going on and I assume that second half we all got it
Everyone got it was to try to kind of clumsily justify why she would volunteer this kind of angry statement
We're meant to understand wasn't that angry
Yeah, it was just
Irritable
Obviously she's upset like anyone would be if they lose their job
It's resigned. It wasn't coming across as like aggressive
And it definitely not toward uh, arthur
Crudging resignation, I guess would be a way to say it. She's just she's upset
Always she's going to lose her job too in all that comes along with that
um
And the person, you know, she she has frustration, but it's not directed at arthur
Someone said give her the replicant test from blade runner
And her frustration that she can't help people at her job the way she wants to
But this line doesn't work because in all of their previous meetings, she's never like connected with arthur
In fact, she barely listens to him which is portrayed as part of the problem most of the yeah
Yeah, just like uh, just like real therapists. I was gonna say that's
I would know I mean i've i've gone to four and
None of them really do anything other than say the same
Predetermined responses to everything. I don't really know
Is what I would describe for why it's a strong scene
Some of those the efap podcast talk in the disc where there's some good memes scrolling down. We got memes already
They're posting them in the disc. Is it is it jeb memes?
They're not jeb memes
Let me um, let me copy paste here they um
It's been a while since i've seen some
Good old efap memes. I mean i've seen a couple of them on the uh efap.me site
But oh some of these are good hurt chain. That's
I love that. That's really good
Oh, no chat that's coming. Oh, no
Is there any more or
I I saw one we got jeffrey epsstine memes
Oh lord
Oh, no, I I will saying that i'm I I enjoy the whole
Like memes that are like normal or like normal facts and at the end and it's like and jeffrey epsstine didn't kill himself
Um
Yeah, that's been popping up in loads of different places
Uh i've been really enjoying those memes because they they they're they're they're sleeper hits
You don't know they're coming and then at the end you're like, oh, hey
It was like uh loads of nautical knots and I like looking at everyone
So I was just to see the differences
Like this is the whatever knot the the sheep bend or whatever the hell they're called
And then like one in the middle was just called epsstine didn't kill himself
Yes
I those those are some good memes because you can you can incorporate them into almost everything
I like how when all the stories broke about that
Absolutely. Nobody was surprised and everyone was just like oh, it took you this long to figure it out. Did you?
Yeah, such a weird like um
Thing that happened that we're all just like there's nothing we can really do so we're all just like yep
We just have to keep mentioning that it's bullshit but other than that just like yep
My favorite time of the day is 13 50 I get it
Uh, we were anyway i'm gonna i'm gonna roll it back people now we got harambe memes most of the
Oh good old harambe. I know man. He's he's saying listen kid. I don't have much time
I have information that will indict hillary clint
When he's talking and it cuts her she's just kind of looking at him in like bemusement or boredom
So why now which is what bemusement looks like? Yeah, I was actually about to say something
Let me make sure bemusement the fact or condition of being bemused. Oh, fuck you
All right, that's definitely what puzzle puzzled confused or bewildered maybe a little
She looked more inquisitive or
bewildered and confused no
Yeah, i'd say concerned
Like mild concern like the fucking scene with him just like he's laughing laughing laughing. You just see her looking at him
Like obviously we have context that it's um the illness as well, but I just like this you can definitely tell she's very concerned about him
And you know in fairness to therapists it's like some some of these things like what are you supposed to say to arthur fleck like uh
Do you write your journal?
Well, and and let's be frank in a in a period as this in a place like gotham
I am ready to believe
At face value that there are maybe some not so qualified therapists who got put into that position and a job
Which again is a part of the problem
Indeed i'm sorry
Uncompetitive said i've discussed the usage of both forms of the n-word with black friends on my gaming podcast
We were shocked with jay long bone and said she was racist
Jay long bone is racist towards her own race
Yeah, fuck jay long bone. She's internalized the white cafe. Okay, jay long bone. I'm sorry, but we can't have you on the show
No, you're a wholesome christian
I love jay long bow just quit typing paragraphs about the n-word. You're not onesia
Ball of wolf and rags use critical analysis as a trojan horse for cyberbullying
Wait who said that? Oh, is that him again? I love it. He's like he's like the new jared. I love it
Oh
Well, we can't say that because as far as i'm aware he he spells better
But well, well as far as i'm aware, he also doesn't like say that you should be able to date nine-year-olds
that's going into uh
Godelb the the all cultures are equal if you bigot
begot
begot bagot
I love so yeah, the this trojan horse comment and the the only you sneak your bigotry in rags
Like we're really not sneaking these things though things you identify against
We're just fucking laid back about it we don't blow a gasket
Um, oh and southpaw just said she's not even an official therapist. She's a social worker
So like the idea that she would be ill-suited again is a part of how the city's in decline
Oh
I remember I want to like pat the film and be like it's okay
It's okay. I'm making lots of money when people called me. Uh rag it and they thought it was clever
Oh
Yeah, wascally waggot
No, we're like rag it wascally waggot
Wags, so you go fucking owned by that. I hate everything co-host guy. He fucked kicked your ass, mate
Oh, yeah, that yeah wags it fucked wags
Oh my god, there's so many cute memes out of it though
That's fun. Hello
And if I was around to see that like if I didn't hadn't like nuked my channel
I would have totally released the I got the audio. Yeah, I got a
Have tail will wag it that's all i'm saying
Such a
Anyway
Say something as on the nose and inflammatory is this to this brooding unstable man
Who's about to be taken off his how is it inflammatory when the whole idea is?
Man, nobody cares about me. You don't care about me. It's like no, no, no, no, it's not that everyone hates you
It's that this society's falling apart. They yeah, they don't care about us
Yeah
You and I the idea there is that it's supposed to make him feel like oh
So it's not everyone's out to get me. Everyone doesn't care about me. It's more so that everything just sucks in general. Okay
Take your pick on which is exactly worse. She's just trying to use it as a sort of
Comforter instead of making it all personal. I I don't see that as inflammatory myself
We got a fun fact in the chat niger shares borders with chad molly in libya
Why not know that it's very interesting the more you learn the more you learn and know
All right meds. It just feels clumsy and
Feels like it lowers the iq of the whole movie that they have to tell you this in such certain terms
They didn't wrap it in 17 layers of subtext
I'm lowering my iq by watching this
Weird character. We can't show her being very sympathetic to arthur or connecting with him or really helping him because yeah crazy
It's almost like therapists don't do that
But that's the point of the film is that nothing's working out for him if you have the therapist working
With him being compassionate with him. This it would make less sense for him
Good will hunting. I was gonna say that's not this movie the idea
It's almost like she's implying that all therapists should be successful. So it's like well, that's not reality. I don't know
The idea is that everything's failing him like it's not supposed to be that he fucking
Has a a therapist that completely works out. That's not that's not what we're going for. Like why she's suggesting like it'll improve it
Why would that improve it?
How dare we show therapists that don't do their jobs like most therapists
Oh, hello, hello all my jay long bone
J long bone words very weird character
We can't show her being very sympathetic to arthur or connecting with him or really helping him
Because in order for the thesis statement of this movie to work
I guess everyone in every facet of arthur's life has to be dismissive of him or no
No, no his mother's not dismissive his mother's not dismissive. There is the there's the midget
Yeah, gary's uh, in fact, that's a big point for the movie is that you know
Why that man exists why that character exists is to express very clearly parts of arthur's character that are still intact
Or at least let the audience know how this is trying to work like just to be like oh everything sucks
Totally chaotic, you know, there's a reason why he does the things he does
Wrong
Wrong him in some way. Another good example is I almost feel like
Can I not pause it?
Just do a test. Okay. All right. Um
I almost feel like she's going backwards
How so like she's starting with the thesis statement and then
Saying is like well in order to have this work then this had to happen in the movie
Um
Hell even the uh, the guy in the records department of the hospital he's not dismissive of him
He's actually like trying to relate to him to certain extent. He does try and start up some, you know, it's pretty nice to him
um
Yeah, i'm i'm not sure I just I feel like it's not like they
necessarily
I've never made a i've never made a film, right?
But I don't know
Were they just like this is the theme and we have to have everything go towards it or do you think it's like a
It grows as it goes kind of thing. Well, you don't have to ask top Phillips about that essentially
Yeah, i'm not ready to say that. Oh, they had to have this happen in the movie because they wanted it to have this
Thesis statement like even that is okay as long as your events are following makes sense, you know cause and effect
Yeah, it's cool progression. As long as we're at that point
You can make anything you want happen. This is the you know, that's the whole idea of man walks out of his house
What then it's like well, it depends on who's making this like what do you want?
And you're like, oh doesn't it have to be one way because of cause and effects
Like a lot of things can happen when you step out of your fucking house like
Like the idea that it's like oh the only reason the therapist didn't care about him is because everything in this film has to suck
I'd be like, but there are therapists who don't care about people
She's not even a therapist like apparently social worker who's losing her job
I think you guys would agree. Arthur's a pretty tough case
Yeah
I mean, he's in a tough situation and he's got his own mental stuff
And then you compound that with the fact he can't get his meds anymore
And you've got social workers that are probably being pushed to the limit with their own workloads
And are they even qualified to be doing this kind of stuff?
It all piles up and one problem is related to another problem is related to another problem
And then if you conclude so the whole world is horrible, it's like no, no, no actually
Anyway his life has to be dismissive of him or wrong him in some way. Another good example is at the very beginning
Not everyone
Weird out from his clown talent agency to go hold a sign at a store's closeout sale
There's already a lot to unpack here. I'll be generous and skip right over
How is holding a
Sign a clown holding a sign at a show
A show a store going out of business. Like how is that? There's lots unpacked. What's wrong with that?
Well, she's about to qualify. I'm sure this won't be frustrating. I'm sure of it
An agency i'm not a child of the 80s and for all I know
Clowns really did have such a heyday back then that it justified operating clown talent agencies
I don't know
But if I may indulge in a brief very nitpicky sidebar, why did the sign holder have to be a clown?
It didn't have to be a clown
Oh my god here i'm gonna let you
Why do why do uh, like restaurants like burger king like have uh, the burger king mascot
Walking around outside of the sign sign. Hey, come here. Why don't we have mascots walking around trying to get people in?
It's just to like the the idea of like it's trying to entice people to come in
Yeah, i'm gonna the the most thing i'm gonna jenny
I'm gonna explain to you should you ever watch this the basics of advertising?
Also, if you want to get attention, you know, there's a there's park benches that you can buy advertisements for and sometimes
They'll say things like you just proved that advertising works
And that's the point the point is to get eyes on them
If you see a dancing clown in the middle of the street right in front of a store when the guy's playing piano
You're gonna be reading that sign and you're gonna be like, oh going out of business cheap stuff
Hey, my life's kind of tough. I might need some cheap stuff. I don't have that much money
You're not gonna be like i'm not gonna go inside of there because a clown is holding the sign
Yeah, if you have a guy dressed up as let's just say a spooky ghost
It's probably not gonna work as well. Actually, maybe like like a blanket with two holes. You'd be like that's kind of weird
I guess it depends like maybe if it's like, you know, if it's halloween halloween
But like of all the things you could dress up why a cloud it's like well apparently there's a cloud talent agency in the area
He knows the clowns are gonna be nice and colorful. It's probably worth hiring one to do the sign job
And especially if he dances which is something he's a big fan of
That might be some specific talent that he's good with and that's why he was hired for this job
Because the guy wanted someone who would dance and make noises and stuff customers see the big dancing pile of colors
They see a sign they conclude that some shop is having everything must go which way why and they look behind
Is it is it established what kind of store it is?
I don't like this is cinema sense
because I
Because there was all there was also a dude in front playing a piano
Why does he have why why would they need to hire a clone?
I know I need to why would uh, why would they need to a piano player?
And before we like go any further and allow her to make the argument that i'm sure she's probably gonna make maybe she doesn't
I don't know. Uh, their clone agencies do exist like you can look them up. They exist now
like
Ignorance of things that exist doesn't mean they don't exist. Well, the interesting thing as well is the let's say they didn't exist
Is that bad?
Is it realistic to have a agency in a place that has them all different things? There was a clown there
Well, i'm just gonna be like I don't even think they need to exist realistically for them to exist in this film
Like um exactly but if they do then yeah, there you go. I don't see why not
Really on nitpick because usually nitpicks like our
Genuine issues. They're just really not big or they're mostly inconsequential. This isn't an issue at all
You're you're literally making up an issue that doesn't exist
Anyway
So yeah, this is that was that's a very uh, you you you guys uh go on i'll i'll listen to it on my phone
I gotta feed my cat real quick and i'll be right back and we'll do all that
Okay
And talent agencies. I don't know
But if I may indulge in a brief very nitpicky sidebar
Why did the sign holder have to be a clown? Couldn't it just be any temp worker?
Yes, it could have been any temp worker. It could have been
It could have been yeah, and so i'm just waiting for it to make a point. It's like so so what?
Yeah, like why did the store have to sell pianos? Couldn't it have sold furniture?
Why why did it have to be a sunny day? Couldn't have been a rainy day
Yeah, what if it was overcast instead of what if it was raining that day couldn't it have been raining
Why did 176 people have to pass him? Couldn't it have been 150?
Again, sure sure
You gotta make like arguments for why these things
Need to change. Yes. I I agree. It could have been another way. Yes
It's certainly logically possible that a not clown could have held that sign. It could have been a werewolf a monkey. Yes
um
A mime could have had all kinds of things
A cowboy have to be a clown couldn't it just be any temp worker if the job is only to hold a sign
And the purpose of the clown costume is just to generate attention to the person holding the sign
They wouldn't just an under qualified non-clown temp worker get you much better better
I'm gonna explain to you the nature of business and one of one of those facets of business
Is that a lot of the times you have to spend money as an as an investment
Someone might say in order to make more money as a result
of that spent money
So by hey if we can pay a little extra money to hire a professional clown because he is a professional clown
It is his job
Then there whether it works or not is irrelevant to the point of they're using that as an investment
To make more money in the future because they've bought a professional clown to draw attention away
Why when the signs destroyed slash lost it is on the clown agency to account for that
Yeah, exactly
Um, that's why I mean clowns who constantly get complaints. Oh, hey that happened in the movie we're talking about get fired
Yep
This is what I mean
Like if me and you would try to advertise our little shop called efap on a store and we were like we could have this sign
Do we hire a wolf a friend of ours to do it all day?
Um, he's I don't know if he has any experience with this. I don't know what the fuck he's gonna think of this
I don't even know how much we should pay him
Or we go for people who do this every day professionally who actually know how to dance
Who are very much like, you know, they got that mindset where they can fake happy for like a whole day
Like disney workers or whatever. She'd be like we get that guarantee
They'll take care of our merchandise. They've done this a lot
They know what they do and it's like and it's not going to be a lot
This is the kind of money that arthur barely scrapes by on
So like I doubt the clown agency is is going to be asking you to pay through the mouth like it's it's and
This is such a strange point because we heard this in another video. I forget which one it was
But we had somebody else talking about like the business going out of business
You know as if like they should just oh well
We're gonna go out of business just like burn
The building down with all of our inventory inside like what what do people think like I it's strange that i've heard this at least
Twice now an issue with a a building going having a going out of business sale
like
I can't believe this is a contentious issue
Like this happened what does she think it's unrealistic that businesses have going out of business sale?
Oh, can you believe that they spent money on a sign that said going out of business sale whole store 50 percent off?
Well, let's why would they spend money? They're going out of business
Lobbering these people are like i was gonna say
I gotta be honest rags
How interesting is this when they'll be like stop talking about the fucking nitty gritty plot elements talk about the themes of tlj
Like all right flip it and they're like joke is bad because why would you hire a clown to spin a sign?
Even i'm like wow, this is all right. I mean she did premise really not she did preface
This was saying she doesn't mean to nitpick but
She says it like oh, I guess the clown was made to get attention. It's like yeah
We're done like you answered it you said the thing but you're still going on
All right
Let's try this again. Jenny we're getting there
They weren't just an under qualified non-clown temp worker get you much better bang for your buck
Especially no, honestly, no
No, I would say i'll mean that it can it's not impossible for a random person that you didn't hire to do it
Maybe someone who was already working at the store
Could have done that maybe
We don't know but if you're that business and you hire a professional clown
Yeah, sure. Maybe my next door neighbor could paint my apartment better than professional painters
It's not impossible
But i'm gonna trust the paint on my walls that i'm gonna have to live with for lord knows how long to somebody
It's going to be to professionals
I just
This is a contentious issue. I guess
I'm baffled by this this confuses me in a little bit way. You guys are okay with a nitpick quote unquote
As long as it's accurate for fuck's sake
Yeah
If it was like well in this scene, he had
You know his this the four buttons on his jacket and then the next scene that after the jump cut there's five
It's like yeah, that's a yeah, that's a legitimate issue. Sure
but
this whole store thing with the sign
I I know I think we're just focusing on it because it's just so at its face
dumb
I mean, let's see what else she's got. I guess I don't know let's go for it. We are we are really into the video
So, you know
You're trying to save money because your store is going out of business
There's nowhere in the city rent clown costumes to know rent but renting costs money jenny
Renting things costs money and if you're going out of business jenny, what are you doing spending money?
Just burn down the building. You're going out of business
You should hire a random temp worker just in general like passing money along to a person in general that works for some kind of agency
There's a general agency buy a costume for them and essentially face makeup
I imagine and then have them do the at this point i'm starting to wonder it's like is this even going to be cheaper?
And if it is by the way, by the by the way, I I want to let everyone into a little thing. So
Um temp workers that you hire from a temp agency cost more than regular employees
Because the temp agency has to pay the temp worker a wage
Plus you are also paying the temp agency money for it to operate and organize itself
Temp workers are more expensive than normal workers. This should be obvious
I can confirm this because i've worked with many temp workers in my life and whenever we were trying whenever things got
Still whenever things got you know, whenever the busy busy parts were were gone and done
All the temp guys they always went home first because they cost more money to keep there
it's just
I ain't an entrepreneur. I i've never started. I don't know why she's concluded that this is the cheaper and better option like
Could we hire a professional or could we hire some temp and give him makeup, right?
Honestly, you get you getting you're getting like all the walls your house repainted and i'm just like why don't you just hire me?
I'll do it and you're like, um
Are you like an experienced painter and i'm like no
And you're like I could imagine you'd be like, I mean I appreciate that you might be interested about it
I just rather get it like they'll do it quickly. They'll do it expertly and i'll have like a level of
A shoe you've got a business that is accountable for it. It is something that you know that they do
They are specifically a clown rental agency
They already have all the materials. They have the face paint. They know the dances
They know the smile and the waving
I mean you could even whether or not you think he's a great clown or not is one thing
But it's clear that this ain't his first gig
The way he's moving the sign around and you know, yeah, well, that's what you're paying for
exactly
All right
Does this sauron or not have like an unemployed nephew he could recruit for this task an unemployed nephew why
I'm glad that in the 10 minutes that i've been gone
Absolutely. No more intelligence has entered this video. They got worse when he left
Hey, I know I heard why it's just it's so it's strange
It really why would you waste money hiring a clown when you can waste money hiring someone to dress up as a clown?
I'm stuck
Why would you hire someone when you could spend arguably more money to hire someone else else with less experience looking into this?
How did she edit this video
Unlike how relevant is this in reference to the movie like really?
What a worthless thing
Like let's say we did conclude like they literally have a guy who who's a jack of all trades guy for hire
Who says you'll do it for half the price and the owner we have a seed where the owner just goes no
Like even that i'd be like, yeah, I don't know why but anyway, why are we talking about it?
if you were hiring someone for a restaurant server or a
An engineer anything and then as you're going through the interview a homeless person taps on the glass and says i'll do it for half
that price
I'm not sure you'll get your money's worth again about accountability. You've got a paper trail with these people as well
These are an agency like I don't know. I don't know this feels yeah, they're in the they're in the phone book
Remember phone books guys, but yeah, they're in the phone book. They have an office that you could go to and yell at people
In the film they call up and say yeah our sign's gone. I want to highlight play creation says you don't pay your nephew
You try and kill them in their sleep
We have lint super that way
But I digress arthur is holding this sign
And he gets mugged by some hooligans and to add insult to injury
They take his sign and they break it and then arthur like probably a full week later gets yelled at by a week later
Is that I don't I can't be sure there is absolutely no indication of how much time has passed
I mean, I assumed it was just the next day. I assumed it was the next day, too
I don't know that it would depends on what a point is. Let's see if it matters
Us because the store owner
Wants his sign back what you're going out of business sign. Isn't a sign like that?
Well, if you need to tell people you're going out of business
Is this woman stupid jenny's actually retarded i'm sorry
So if you spend so you need to be if you need to be at least consistent with your stupid point
Okay
Is the point that they're spending too much money on something that's potentially frivolous?
And now the point is that they're invested in making sure their investment is worthwhile and now that's a problem
It's like yeah, they still need the sign
We have a business can know what's going out of business for months in advance
Um, there was a gander mountain close to where I lived
That closed and it had a going out of business sale for months
Until they emptied that store 50 off everything in the store signs
They had to make god forbid and man you walked in and that store got emptier and emptier until it was they were selling the shelves
Like everything must go. Hey, right. If your if your shop is going out of business, what things do you think you really need right now?
Oh
Your shop is going out of business
You might I was thinking maybe a sign that says
Everything must go just it's like I guess the idea that you don't need
That it's only it's a sign that you need temporarily. So therefore it has no value
Yeah, I think that's where she's I guess what my car I need my car temporarily
Doesn't mean it still has immense value to me. I need my air conditioning
Temporarily someone runs past his store and bumps into his door. It rips off right and they're like you're going out of business. Who cares?
Yeah, it's like like I said, I said it jokingly but like make me a principled argument jenny
Why if you're going out of business, you shouldn't just burn down the building with all your inventory inside
It's so much cheaper going out of business. Anyway, they're going out of business. Don't worry about it. You've already lost
You're not trying to recuperate your losses or no now also going out of business doesn't necessarily mean that they're in the red
It could mean that they understate they are predicting that they will be in the red eventually
So they're getting out so they won't be in debt now
So it's not necessarily a matter of trying to recuperate as many losses as possible
It's just everything must go to tell you
You know like how shops will often go like um
They start with 10 off and then maybe go 20 and 30
Oh, yeah
And the maximum you usually see before they shut will be as much as 90 like if they were really pushing it
All they said was everything must go this could have been the first day of them closing for all we know
Yeah, um
We we have no idea. We have no idea
What the time scale is of this business and it doesn't even really matter. This could be the action. This could I suppose
this would
Maybe if this was the very last day and they literally were closing
That next morning and there was nothing more for the store ever. Maybe you could say why would they need the sign?
You know, I highly would say in that case i'd be like, I agree with you
However, if you're this guy
Closing your shop down in one of the worst cities in america right now
And you see that your sign's been destroyed and you you know that you can ask for that to be paid for
Because it's your proxy that's been damaged
Why wouldn't you it takes a phone call and you will ensure that you get reimbursement of your sign
Which is another reason why you use an agency
Because exactly because you're not calling some dude
You're calling an agency that has a physical address someone you could call someone who's in the books with a number
Anyway
It's very nature a sign that you only need for a limited amount of time
Anyway, i'm not auditioning for cinema sins here
And i'm not counting that as like a real big strike against the movie edge. Thank god
A little bit embarrassing to defend but no you did great as cinema sins. Honestly, that was pitch perfect. I would go as far as saying
Like um, you did it better than he does it. Yeah, like you take something almost irrelevant and you get the facts wrong about it
and you try and
Make it kind of seem funny in the delivery, but it's not
That's pretty simple. I can't wait for the cinema sins video to come out about joker and it's gonna be like significantly shorter than this video
What if they made what if what if they made that sign?
Like themselves they made that sign and of course in your business time is money you're spending time to make the sign remember
He's got no like the guy who owns the shop probably has no reference for what actually happened. He just gets told. Oh, it was stolen
It's like stop
You can't just like are you serious?
You just left you didn't tell us like if if the client if arthur had gone back inside
I understand why maybe he didn't he just been beaten up
But if the sign had just been stolen and he went back and said hey guys
Like four dudes just ran up and stole the sign
They wouldn't have they wouldn't have said. Oh, that's on the clown agency. That's their fault. Uh,
sort of referential I guess um
The toy store the nightmare toy store I worked at. Uh, I was late
One day by 15 minutes because the train I got to work
Uh, someone committed suicide on it
So obviously like it was a huge delay. Um, I got in and
The manager that's one of the worst people I've ever met in my entire life was like why are you late?
And I was like the train got delayed that somebody just and he cut in front of me and he went if you're late again
You'll be fired
It's the kind of thing where as much as
This is what I mean
Life sucks and these a lot of people do not care what the the pieces of information are he even tells his boss
He's like that's what happened. It's just like why would anyone want to steal a sign?
You're like what you like you just don't you don't just believe me
Doesn't matter if I believe you the head's got a roll
You know the buck stops somewhere. So
You know, it's just sorry. That's just how it works
Um, I did ever eventually walk out of that job
Yeah, I that's that's kind of the point where I walked out of my last job was I got one of those talks
And it was super unfair and I was like, you know what? This is this this is the last draw. I'm fuck you people
This is my two week notice and maybe that's our bias right now
It's like we've had lives where we've experienced partially at least what what arthur goes through. We're just like, you know what this happens
I haven't like jenny. We have had real jobs. I'm sure she's had them. Maybe she just hasn't had experiences
You know, like well one of the first things we talked about was arthur's reaction to the boss telling him
He's gonna have to lose money because he was beaten up
And it's such a like this is happening. Not only this is actually happening
And it all makes sense. That's what that's what bosses do like they they don't care about the context
I mean shitty bosses more so but you know what I mean? Yeah, I mean, I mean like they're you know
Cruelty and unfairness is one thing but
Yeah, money
I remember there was this time
There's this time
Three I want to say about three years ago back when I worked at domino's
There was this point where the district manager came in the district manager is why everyone at that store ended up quitting
He was just the most vile human being i've ever met in my life
Oh, yeah people people for the most part. They quit managers. They don't quit jobs
Yeah, people are much more willing to stick with bad jobs if there's a really good manager
I mean hell i'd still be there now
I'm pretty sure most of us would still be there now just because it was an easy job
It paid well, and I loved most of my co-workers. It was how the manager treated us that
uh
That made us all quit
But the thing that I remember about this guy the most is just how he treated people and there was this time
where
He came up to me and he started screaming his ass off about how
I wasn't cleaning the dishes correctly. This is because
There was a point two months earlier
Where I had just begun working you weren't I hadn't been pizza
Well, yeah, I was uh, that's where it all began
Yeah, that's where it all began. Yeah, it's all the game
and uh
I wasn't cleaning out the pans the correct way
And I was informed about what I was doing wrong and I rectified the issue two months later. He comes and starts screaming and
uh
raising hell about me not cleaning the pans the right way even the the
The store manager had to tell him like that hasn't been an issue for months
I
stopped yelling
and then
People will just bitch the fuck out about
Really stupid shit
And yeah, I was gonna say the the final store the toy store wasn't actually from the bad manager
It was the only good manager leaving. That's when I was done
Yeah, the the good manager leaving our store because of what the uh, the district manager did to him because he was a manager not making
I know and that was why he left and when he left all the rest of us left
Yeah, I know when we had with most of the managers I had were really good nice people
And when a good manager that you really like and respect and who likes you and you get along with when they say
I'm leaving to go somewhere else
There is that you know, not only oh, no
I'm losing, you know a friend that could be going somewhere else and i'll never see him at work and stuff like that
There's also the dread of oh, what if the replacement is shit? Yeah
Yeah, well, I wasn't gonna play the odds. There's four managers on rotation. Two useless one horrible one good good ones out. It's like
Yeah, it got bad as well because I'd look at the um
The timetables and be like please be at the same time as this manager's rotation and every time it wasn't it'd be like
Like it's gonna be a fun night
Yeah, I had a situation like that with my current job like uh
There was this girl. I really like to close with because she was really good at her job
Everyone else sucked and whenever she wasn't there I was like, man this sucks
Then she just left a couple weeks ago
And it's no torture working there
Not torture obviously what you know
I mean honestly retail can be like it's infuriating a lot of people make jokes. Like hell would just be working one of the worst retail jobs
With the worst customers the worst manager
And pay enough to simply buy food and carry on
Anyway, there's a video
everyone ready to
Okay, that's how everyone has their own personal experiences that managed to prove jenny wrong because she just hasn't had like a single bad thing
Happened to her
She used to work in disney land or world or whatever and i'm just like it must have been she must have like
That must have been a place where bad things can happen
Either she's unbelievably lucky or she just really doesn't understand film or storytelling or very strange real life
Her criticisms are have so far been very odd
Haven't even been legitimate criticisms. Yeah, they haven't been correct
But they've been odd and they're not even just major. I think they're just obviously wrong that it's just
The chat's pointing out
It actually seems really kind of ironic that she worked at disney
And here she is shilling for disney
With all the disney paraphernalia and well, she she ripped into rogue one. So
Whoa, you ripped into one of the bad movies
I'm just saying like we get that criticism every once in a while, right? It's like oh marble fab boy
It's like I ripped into captain bar. It's like oh one movie. I ripped into black panther two movies
like okay, then
Like I don't want to say that she's a fucking shill though it is
interesting because i'm pretty sure she's one of the um
The selection of youtube reviewers that like had packages in relation to disney and it's like getting shipped out to to see
x y and z or tickets to go to certain things as
a vip or
Special guest. I can't remember what I saw on twitter, but I remember thinking like oh
It gets difficult when you start getting involved directly
because then it's like
man
If I say things that are too bad, maybe I won't get that shot again, you know, and that's you know, so many human I guess. Um
It's like there's like reviewers that I followed
Um, I mean I just you know, people probably know what i'm talking about in chat already
Um when I i'm trying to remain vague, but it's not like this is not like this is a shot at him
Everyone's allowed an opinion
but um
A guy I absolutely adored for reviewing game of thrones episodes
like
The first time he got to interact with the cast after becoming like super popular
Uh, there's really like wholesome videos. No cool
And um, there are episodes he's reviewed in the past where he's been scolding like there was season five ones in season
I think I want to say season six or seven as well
And it was just the kind of thing I was like nice and real
And he has all these like interactions with directly with
Game of thrones casts and different organizations and holidays and stuff that they probably paid for
And then like all of his reviews of season eight were positive. It's like
All right, I'm sure he just really enjoyed it it's fine
Um, but yeah, you know
If if anybody watches game of thrones reviews, you probably know who i'm talking about from just that but it doesn't matter
Anyway, is everyone good to carry on with this?
You know, I you know, we have 29 minutes left to go we do we're doing good. Can we just we're over a movie
I'm sure because we'll probably get through it faster. Yeah statistically
She's gonna say something correct eventually
So let's press on I don't know i'm looking into these eyes and I think
Correctness comes from her mouth. She's gonna say something really great. I'm sure of it
I'm not auditioning for cinema sins here
And i'm not counting that as like a real big strike against the movie. I just thought it was kind of hilarious
My beef is very unsurprising. It's the same as it always is. I don't like when movies carry themselves
Like they're very clever and like they have big themes and then fail to follow through and oh, you mean like tlj
Yeah, so you're gonna so the big thing it's actually a very simple theme that we can all relate to I think that's why
Audiences adore this film so much this scene lasted for like less than three minutes
Probably less than two minutes. How are we not really sure what she just said matches tlj one-to-one. It's like amazing
No, tlj's themes were amazing. I just
I just
It is the film for having big
Lofty themes that are not followed through by the film whatsoever
Also, this seems like a statement that you would put at the end of the video
Because this almost seems and now maybe she'll elaborate it
It just seems like this is something you'd say after you explain the point
Well, and then say, you know in conclusion. I don't like a film that doesn't carry through for its themes. It's like
Now you now you're gonna have to explain how it doesn't carry through for its themes because you haven't done that yet
I am okay with somebody coming home from watching a film and just recording their thoughts
But this is this would be one of the things that gets curbed by structure
Should I talk about the theme as a whole section rather than mentioning it here and possibly never saying anything again or dotting things through?
And it's just like this is her style. That's fine. But it is a little bit like oh, we're talking about the theme now
Oh now we're back to a specific scene and how whether or not they should have hired a clown for the sign holding like, okay
Anyway
Actually have well-developed themes
I was really pretty disappointed because I was actually pretty excited going in the premise. I was here for the trailers
I really liked the trailers were very good. Can we just acknowledge that? Sure
Yeah, the guilty trailer was great. Honestly, once the film is out trailers can go fuck off
I don't really care anymore
The Godzilla king of the monster trailers were legit amazing
And then the trailer for every single three four three halo game is great trailer for age of old
We all know how three four three games trailer for age of old trump got me so hyped
Um, it didn't work out
Unfortunately, but there we are. What the hell does a trailer have to do with anything?
I don't know
She's talked for 34 minutes. She could she could yeah, she's got the time to mention the trailer
Yeah, she got plenty of time a worthless thing to praise
The trailer is good really solid trailer fortunately. I'm able to compartmentalize. See this is the thing
I'm not i'm not going to make this claim about her
But certainly movie bob when you've really got you don't know what you're supposed to say about the movie
They've she's resorted so far to talking about the fucking side being operated by a cloud from an agency
the theme not
Working or or trying to be more than it is and then just the trailer was good
Yeah, I mean
It seems like an odd thing to bring out. I know there's a lot a lot more to this video
Hopefully odd thing to bring up at the beginning. Yeah, i'm not saying that that's the whole video. I'm sure what a gun for the big stuff
But all right. Sure. What else you got?
Guys and when this happens, I can still go back and just enjoy a good trailer even if I like know that
Okay
Does anyone actually watch trailers for entertainment after the films have been seen that's strange to me?
But all right
Yeah, the only time I go back to watch a trailer is before the movie came out or if I need it for like a video
or something
I don't know how to reference something to a friend
I'm such a strange thing
I don't i'm trying to think of the time where i've gone back to watch old trailers
It would it would usually be for a specific context like proving a point about something
Like that trailers aren't necessarily reflective of the movie like the lord of the rings trailers or
Uh to show how styles have changed over time for trailers because um, or how we we can reference like a good trailer and a good movie
that
Don't hate this trailer was so bad
I I would argue that the uh, the trailer for the gray is many people do
Is that true? It's still good
What I want to be specific because uh kekastani vicar said many people do I want to be specific now
Do you watch old trailers for entertainment?
Press press one in chat for no two in chat for yes
And i'm talking films have been out. You've watched them. It's all over you're looking forward to the new stuff
You go back to old trailers. Like I don't know that that's anything
Trailers can they're often like so because they're from another time. So they're so bad
they're kind of charming and
Funny in that kind of way almost like in a b movie kind of way
Like the like I mentioned the trailer for terminator two is
Awful
Oh, yeah, you can like watch it was there was some twos in there mostly one
We watched a bunch when we were on drunken peasants
Oh, yeah that they were from like the fucking 70s and 80s weren't they?
Uh, yeah, if not before
Yeah, like my specific requirements were like the film has been out for like let's say a year i'm talking like that
It's mainly ones
I thought for a second I was going crazy there because I was just like I just don't know anybody
I don't think i've met anybody who watches old trailers as a sort of entertainment thing
Um, but even like consistently not like a drunken peasants where they clearly designed that because we talk about movies all the time
Which is fine with me. I think it was fun
But even then like what does that have to do with the movie?
Like why are you talking about the trailer unless the trailer was misleading in which case?
Yeah, you can talk about that
Because I think her point is that it was almost misleading that that she thought the trailers were great and the film wasn't great
so
Um
I meant more like misleading in terms of like it led you to believe it was going to be a different movie than it actually
Was not just in terms of quality because yeah, if I said the Joker trailers were lying i'd be like what?
Yeah, I mean if someone came up to me and said like yeah, the the trailer for the gray was very bleeding
It's like yes, yeah
I was because a lot of the the deeper parts of the gray you can't really convey it through a trailer anyway
um
But even then the movie's still good
So it's not really a criticism of the film. It's more of a criticism of the marketing
Right, which is what's in this subject is encompassed and that's why it's like why are we on this topic?
Marketing, I don't know if you want to it's just such a stupid thing to even
talk about
Because what what was the marketing?
How did the market detract from the actual film? I aside from watching the first trailer
I I didn't look into anything about the Joker movie before watching the film
I saw the Joker trailer once
When it first dropped the very first trailer and that was it
So I don't know what point she's trying to make with this. It's
so strange
Turn out being that good I could just go back and watch the trailer and like remember how excited it made me feel
It's like an anime music video like anime own art. You're just like hmm. Nice trailer
That's very sad if you haven't seen it and for some reason you're watching this video. I assume everyone that clicked it
Well, no statistically statistically
Almost everybody really liked the film. So yeah, most people who saw it really liked it
And I think a lot of people would be curious if anything why you didn't because this this should have been like a slam dunk easy
mode
But you fucked up why I mean i'm i'm getting all cynical. I just like I think that they're having trouble
Getting it, you know in the same way that chris stuckman said he couldn't get blade runner
And like this happens this this some movies you might watch and you might be like
I don't have anything wrong with this, but i'm not getting what everyone else is getting you know, I mean in a civil war for me
Yeah, I adore that film
That's the thing like you could explain it all day in both
The maybe the floors or the pros and the person can be like I still don't get it
I
Like I just think that's happening on a little bit of a wider scale with with joker. I mean
The first question for anybody who liked joker is did you like tlj?
Just out of curiosity. I'm not saying it means anything. I'm just like I just
I just want to know it definitely means something
It's just interesting
Like let's let's not beat around the bush. It means something
I mean to a degree every comment about whatever film you like can mean something right? It's indicative
You know clj fantasy encompasses a certain kind of person
Well, that was kind of what I was trying to say at the end of my video of the three critiques
I was like if this is something you think is well written
Then how are you going to start like saying? Oh, this other film is poorly written
For whatever standard like logical inconsistency because tlj has them all
So what are you gonna do like go? Well, it was good in tlj
I say this like it's a really harsh straw man, but this exists. It's like oh, well, yeah
But the the message the memes the the themes I mean
They they they elevate the script. So this other film and you know i'm referencing right? It's like, um
Suicide squad that film's terrible. It's like what about the themes like oh, it doesn't have themes like no, no
Everything has themes my friend even the room
The room has the best themes movie trailers are like anime music videos
All right
Feel anger for some reason anyway, we'll have to find you a good uh, anime music video to you
I don't like it. I'll be right on gedel
As long as it's under seven seconds find you know, it works differently for music music can get clipped at like three seconds
Really annoying break this down play a blood on the dance floor video. No one will ever copyright that shit
Some people copyright it. Yeah people copyright fucking doom
They're like nope, that's mine. That's mine
That belongs to me and they didn't they didn't they could have gone the way of monetizing it
But no, they block it every time like no one is allowed to see you doing this. You're like, all right
Okay
Yeah, I guess people did like actually try to claim the alpha in omega movies and say yeah, I made this
We worked like oh you were the one responsible were you and with the writer for alpha and omega
It's a masterpiece
Trailer they had all these compelling shots of like the joker
Dancing in a grandiose fashion and they're playing like a bing Crosby song or something. I'm 90 sure it's not bing Crosby
Don't don't get on my case about this
Anyway, you see those in the trailer and you get kind of hype because it feels like this kind of bombastic scene
maybe a
emotional height for the joker
Which it is? Yeah, it is
I'm gonna let her continue, but I just want to clarify it was all right. We're moving forward
Or even if it wasn't though, even if it wasn't like, okay, it's a trailer. It's not in context
You have to watch the movie to understand the full context
It's that's not a full offer the film
Yeah, we're really the only thing she can conclude is poor marketing or at least misleading marketing
And again, that would be like, all right, so
What's the film like against the film though?
Yeah
A lot of things that lead to him
Being on this staircase or backstage of this show and doing a grand little dance you kind of assume
It's not like triumphant given the overall tone of the movie
But then it's at least going like in the trailer one of the stairs is definitely triumphant triumphant
Absolutely, or at least maybe not triumphant, but like gleeful
Yeah, there's a lot of ways you can describe that and it depends on whether you're looking at the audience or arthur or both
there's a lot of
what I would call
Emotions that are veering on the the what people would call positive side, uh for sure
There's a sense of freedom. I would go as far as saying
It's right after he's brutally bearded somebody and put on his full costume. He's going to see rob deniro. It's great
But the truth is the joker isn't dancing in like an interesting moment as part of a bigger scene
He dances at several points in the movie actually in various settings and each time he does it there is a movie of build-up to it
There's an unrelated
No, okay. No, the dancing is always relating to something intrinsically plot related
It's a character moment that always comes at the either beginning or end of a scene that
Something big happens or is going to happen
That is an interesting thing to say. How did how did you miss that? I'm I'm not sure how to tackle this i'm like, yeah
All right. Let's take let's take the bathroom dance, right? He dances in the public bathroom now
What did he do moments before he began dancing in the bathroom brutally murdered three people
Murdered lies three people shot him dead after being attacked sort of quasi-attacked
They started beat the shit out of him. So killed three people
He runs and runs and when he finally feels like he's safe
In a space of his own he begins to dance. He feels free and uplifted
It feels good to him and maybe he can't even explain quite why but being able to get back at those people
It gives him some kind of emotional catharsis
It didn't come from nowhere
And if you thought it came from nowhere, maybe you're paying attention. Maybe you needed to watch the film a second time
I haven't watched the film the second time
But I remember for the most part what happened in the film
If i'm wrong wolf, but the dance scene where he's applying his makeup toward the end of the film is after he's killed his mom
after he killed his mom and when he is uh
Beginning the transformation into his joker look. Yes. Yes. It's before
then the dance right after that is after he kills randall
and the dance after that is just before he
enters the murray franklin show and the one right after bent is after he kills murray it's always plot related what about always
Related the when he's dancing with the gun in his room
Let's see that is that that's a different uh circumstance because he's like imagining like
A different like a conversation is about or our point is the character moment
You have he he has someone say to him in his fantasy. You're a very good dancer
And it's important for us to hear him say that is what I would argue as well
There's a lot that's being achieved with that scene, but so yeah, um
Rudimentarily i'd say way more than that. I'm trying to be generous to it right now
We've come up with something important for each of these dances and she's trying to argue
That the dance is made very important in the trailer while in the film. It's just something he does
I I can't remember but in his um daydream where he's on the murray show
Does he say that he likes to dance?
No, no, I don't remember him talking about dancing. He talks about his mom living with her
um
Yeah, I don't think dancing is ever mentioned there. No, I don't believe so
I
Quite like, uh escara scari. I'd have to watch the film again, but they said he dances in moments of feeling power and control
Definitely, yeah, I think the only one that contradicts that is the uh
The one where he's imagining dancing with somebody but there's a specific context where it works with the character then he is holding a gun
Yeah, so you'd picture that's gotta be he's gotta be feeling kind of powerful with it. Um gun on your hand makes you feel powerful
Maybe case. Yeah. All right. Good stuff. Jenny. All right
It's seen
That somehow indicates his descent into madness and then cut away to a different scene wherein he is dancing
In front of a mirror or on a staircase or backstage of the talk show and you're like
Oh, and it's it's slow motion
It doesn't have fun like show tuney music the way it why the fuck would have fun show tuney music
Like the whole point is he he's like
When he's backstage at least
He's like slowly building himself up to that point where he knows what he's gonna do
you guys remember
A long time ago. It was brought out. I think it's might have been the patrick williams plot hole thing
He mentioned that people say it's a plot hole because they don't show the journey between one cut to the next
right, right and
Jenny
Treats it as like an issue here that it cuts to him dancing
Like you you showed him walking into the bathroom
You showed him getting ready to travel to the place and this is on the way
like
Yeah, the cut won't show every step along the way, but when
It's like what an odd thing to say like it just cuts to him somewhere
It's like yeah, we saw him sort of go there. He was on his way there. He was traveling
It wasn't one long take his entire journey. It was very strange to put in there
I'm not even sure what she was trying to say specifically because she said like cuts to him dancing
I'm like you saying it was too harsh of a cut you saying that it doesn't inform the dance
Like how it's not even a harsh cut I don't know well, this is kind of what i'm gonna like it
She doesn't really she just said that happens and it's like, right
Wait
There's a lot of waiting for the problem
Besides we see him on the bus
We see him walking
I mean he travels
You know, well, yeah, and a lot of there's a movie between the scenes. Yeah
With a lot of details to help support the world building for fuck it. I'm sure they'd see that as boring or whatever
Like how's trailer?
It just has very somber strings and each of these scenes is really sort of interchangeable with the other ones like it
I'm very here for like slow boring character studies
But it didn't feel slow and boring because it was intimate or because it was taking its time to really develop the character
I don't care about it. I find it boring. Go ahead feel whatever you want. Sure
Fucking wolf watched it three times wasn't even bold. So yeah
And we know that's a ringing endorsement
It felt like it was slow and boring because tod phillips had like a couple ideas for good scenes and then just repeated them
No, oh my god
Was she dropped on her head as a baby what's wrong with her
If if there was a wasted scene in joker one that you could
Take out one that you would call padding and unnecessary. What what scene do you think would it would be?
I'd have to watch it again
Because I think I would too because nothing really was padding and unnecessary
Yeah, if there's anything you could remove
If you had to I think you get away with shaving some scenes, but even then i'd be like, I don't know
I don't even think i'd want to shave down any scenes
Again i'd have to watch it if anything I wish the movie was a little more of it
Yeah, i'd have to say that that's a flaw that it was too short it definitely was not too short
Yeah, I know it's subjective but when I was watching it I was
I was on board the whole time. I was watching I was paying attention. Oh my eyes were glued to the screen
Man, I never I never felt bored. I never felt like they were wasting time or plotting along too slowly
No, it's subjective but
I mean
All right
To walk home from the theater with head neighbor
The scene where it definitely shows the girl friend flashbacks that last like three seconds people say girlfriend flashbacks are important
We have to keep the girlfriend. I hate people who keep saying we shouldn't have them
Like so many prominent reviewers have said that they're unnecessary and i'm like god damn it
Like someone's saying you're just wrong. You're just wrong
Someone here is saying you could leave out the wanes death
um
Oh, I like that. I guess it really likes the best day
Yeah, I really really like it. That is my favorite depiction of the way in family being killed
Um someone saying we should remove canto bite. I agree
We should just remove all of disney's star wars
Same as someone saying kicking the trash after he's fired
Maybe no, no, no
I mean look look look. I don't think there's gonna be a good answer
But you've got to pick one is like
baby
Okay, if I had to pick what I might shave down when he goes to visit the wane manner
Somehow i'm not sure what I would do. I need to see the scene again
I think the only part I would shave maybe cut is um
Him putting his fingers in bruce's mouth and making him smile
Um, I think there's something to draw from that. Uh, I hate to say it thematically
A couple people have said the girlfriend flashbacks
Here's the thing about the flashbacks and the reason that everyone who says they weren't needed is completely fucking wrong
If they were not in there
Do you understand how many retarded people are actually in the world that would be like I don't fucking get it
That's not even
My argument actually have them in there to make sure that like people actually understand because you know
The criticisms would be just flipped. It's not a valid criticism. Stop pretending that it is
So it's such a fucking worthless thing to complain about how how dare they put four seconds of a scene in there
The reason why I needed the flashbacks
Personally more so than being it's not about figuring out. She's not real. I got that the second
She said like aren't you the guy from the other place or whatever? Like yeah, okay. She's not real
um
When you play out those scenes that he has
Uh, you need to know whether or not?
Um, he imagined it all in his head whether or not he went to these places and he just imagined her being there
um
And and then what was being
Done whether or not she was there. There's a lot to this being done in those scenes. Um
I mean, I always reference the fact that her dialogue is is very interesting when you give a film a rewatch knowing that she's not real
um
I think it's all based around comfort a lot of it and uh trying to
I just know exactly how people would respond to this if it was the other way around and it's exactly the same fucking thing
Like don't pretend like people wouldn't get pissy if they didn't
Well, like I could see that I think there would be a fair amount of people especially with how realistically the scenes were portrayed with her
in them
How if all of a sudden she just acted like she didn't know him that would confuse people
I do think that would confuse people. I think I think
Yeah, I think I might even be among them
uh
Because the the because I certainly wouldn't my first impression wouldn't be
Oh, he's been hallucinating the whole time
Uh, and it might while I try to figure that out in the theater as the movie's playing
I might be focusing too much on thinking about that. Um, like that's where we're at though
Okay, not to interrupt and take a step back but going mattress like that's where we're at for joker criticism right now, really
Yeah, um, it's a fucking
A few people I guess that's great. That's the only real
criticism and quotations but
Um, I I someone uh someone I think the person who mentioned the trash, uh cutting out him kicking the trash in the scene before that
They say we could see how angry he was because like the time clock and everything
So maybe that was after the fact that was after he was fired though
Is what that's what they're saying in chat so
The guy singing to him could be cut. I don't know about that
Someone's saying I feel like just talking here to the bank. We have more to go on the train
Someone's saying cut out him climbing in the fridge
Which might
I think the film doesn't suffer without it
I don't think taking that out would really necessarily ruin anything. It doesn't exactly add much either
Someone's saying when he shoots the gun on accident
Well, no a lot of things are going on in that scene I think that we need to keep
Yeah
Because he is plus I've seen a lot of people say that like uh shooting the gun and having no response shows
It further shows how shitty the neighborhood is. Yeah
also, I mean about a lot of things being achieved like it I just
I will settle like the I will settle for the fridge scene because I think that only achieves one thing specifically unless there's probably more takes
I need to listen to about it, but
From my experience. I was just like
Right now he's like a very physical representation of complete isolation
I hope someone brings up good point. I think the flashbacks are partly important because it's show it's showing that he is realizing she was
And accepting that that too kind of like accepting the reality of the situation like yeah, which is a good point
I think that's a good point that you make
um
Uh, but killing his mother wasn't that important
answer
um
Not of interesting a lot of interesting answers here, but
There's not like we're at the point where we're desperately struggling to cut something
And you were being told the film is like brought out boring and stuff so yeah, I wouldn't cut anything at all
We're kind of struggling to start out stalking her to the bank
But you if you cut that out
We lose that which leads to the next scene which leads to everything. It's like the beginning of her plot line almost
you know the imagine a
Him imagining her plot line the reason she comes to him. So it's kind of good that we saw it
Anyway
Doomcock apparently did a whole video about the fridge and i'm not I didn't know that
That might be something we check out later. Yeah, i'll be interested. That's interesting. I didn't know that
Thank you for bringing up the movie sad thing happens to arthur shot of arthur in a dim room
Smoking and looking seriously at a wall shot of arthur dancing slow mo, but you play violin music
All right. Yeah, I mean this is really fun. Let's play this game star wars is like a bunch of people talking
stuff in space
Just a guy sitting on a chair in a spaceship
Yeah, uh a couple people in a different the old rooms look basically the same. Oh look a new planet
Just an old dude sitting on a rock. Is it fucking arthur is just in a place doing a thing
People with laser swords just standing around staring at each other and talking rather than fighting now
Let's go even more vague characters doing stuff
That's like the whole movie
All right
I hate this shit young moisture farmer staring at two sons
Yeah, that's what I mean characters are just doing shit a waste of time
What's happening?
Also a scene of a man dancing doesn't automatically become poignant just because you slow it down and put spooky violins over it
Especially when you do it more than once and by the themes insulting to their really good
Seriously when she loves tlj that film is filled with pretentious shit
Yeah, this is rough
Fans their opinions don't this is what i'm
This is the whole point of the end of my video i'm like if I know
That you think tlj is a masterpiece i'm going to struggle to reconcile a lot of your future takes because i'm like but
but you said but
Okay, and this will be like but molar everyone's allowed to have an opinion i'm like the store it's not what i'm discussing right now
but okay
Let me look at the metacritic for joker this we get update. This is just for
funsies this isn't obviously prescriptive so
Metascore is at a 59
The user score is at a 9.2
good
which is
stellar
exceptional
Well, you said over 9.2 or 99.2 out of 10. We should oh and ironically we should
Well, it's because they they do the meta because metacritic's dumb they do metascore out of 100
And they do user score out of 10, but there's a picture there
Well, why does it like that? That would come the way the way you said that made me think wait
Oh, yeah, it does come around. Yeah
Yeah
Also, that makes it look like it's so much worse. Yeah, essentially 59 metascore 92
We should um, I think I don't know how how to do it
Um, but i'm pretty sure you can stream the oscars, right if me you that's three
Make sure we watch all of the films that are nominated
Because joker is just to see what happens. We could totally do an efap mini for the oscars
Like uh, you can't do it live, but you can definitely make super cuts
Just to see yeah
I'm doing that
We can all relish in the disappointments
Because I actually tried to watch all of the oscar winners from last year just to see because that's why we watched green book
I was like, okay
Let's see what it was
And uh, it gets too much walking phoenix gets snubbed. I'm sure
I have a feeling the joker is a hulb. I guess we'll have to see what happens
But um, yeah, I think that could be fun
I met john connor the terminator. It doesn't matter the only thing that got me a killer robots is now gone
Oh, no
Oh, no
Oh, that's so sad
They are killing everything that got me hooked into thriller sci-fi shit aliens terminator predator at least the
Previous terminator movies are tied to skynet. That's true. They completely dropped skynet. What do you mean?
They are called legion now. That's the only oh, no
But genesis is skynet
What i'm getting what he's talking about is like the new movie says skynet is gone dead deleted done. You killed them. Good job
Okay, cool. So what's the threat now? Legion? What's the difference between legion and skynet? Literally nothing
Okay, it's like the good job guys. We did it. Um, we made remember what
I don't remember what they're called in gears four and five, but they changed like the locust to some other name even though they're
Name is the locust of the locust. Yeah, the locusts were fighting
the lambent
And now you have the swarm in addition
Mr. Best part is I don't I don't know if you played gears four, but they
No, I get sucked. I heard it was just out of out of absolutely nowhere
One of the characters goes we call them the swarm and it's like when did you decide on that name?
Well, i'm like, how long are you going to live on this planet before an alien civilization?
Stops popping up every five minutes and is the new bad guy of the game
My favorite part is like it's all predicated on the fact that gears three is like we killed all of the locusts
And then out of nowhere, it's like never mind there
They went into hibernation and now they're super locusts now. Well, it was just it will be locust
Uh, we're by the way, we're talking about gears of war right now is where we've where we've gone
But yeah, I
I I am very very glad that in gears five they have like a five minute cinematic that explains like the world
Because I was honestly like who were we fighting and where the fuck did they come from?
Trust me in context gears doesn't make any more sense
It is what gears it actually has a really interesting war hammer like universe to it
That's they don't have to read in like external material
Yeah, but the games give a very it's
It's like like a worse for it like space marine gives you a better
Work like a view into the war hammer universe then gears five kind of gives for the gears universe in a way
Oh, no, but it's like how many times does that?
Pretty good. They've docked fate an eight out of ten
He did why wait?
Critical who he he well, he didn't necessarily shout me out once
But he actually like said that it was my game of thrones videos. I think that he watched or something
Critical drinker. No, no, no, not critical drinker. Oh
Thank god. Oh, okay. All right. I was like, whoa. Whoa. No, no
Critical drinker. Okay for clarification critical drinker hated it
Cranker hated oh, no
It's probably true because i'm seeing it's got 87. It's a yellow rating. It's the only video he's got up. That's got a bad rate
No
It's critical
Charlie is the one guy who liked it
He was
I'll have to check it out. I hope we don't end up covering it. Please. No
The moist meter
Wait, really this is in the yeah, it's not penguin zero, is it? Yeah, that's not critical is it it is
Yeah
Because this moist meter dark fate just shows it at seven point two to one point one, which is
Yeah, yeah, that's bad in the yellow. That's bad
That's indicative that something's gone wrong because when you're delivering videos to your own fan base
Most of the time you'll get 95 plus it would be weird to get anything lower than that if everything's fine
Um
So to get 87 to be that's why they've colored it yellow green and red, you know, red is
It up on gray for me
Oh, well, the reason why they've colored it that the way they have on the um, the app or whatever it is
is to try and tell you that uh
That's essentially how youtuber, you know, like uh extra credit's getting essentially like two percent
The the color doesn't change from two percent all the way up to like 70 something because it's just yeah
You're in bad territory at that point
Yeah, uh 100 to 90 is green
And then it goes orange down to 70 and then it's red from there
Um, but those are the dark fate metacritics
It is 54 from the metascore
And from the user score is a 3.8 out of 10
Also, I want to clarify you can have videos that are like disliked to hell. They're actually good. Um,
Because those different things can be the reason
But I will check that video out. I hope it's not like weird
but
That movie was bad
Oh angry joe fell about someone said someone said in chat he gave ukulele about
He did angry joe gave it an eight out of ten. What you see this is why angry joe's of the opinions
No, I gotta check. I gotta check. I gotta check. It could be a meme
I I honestly believe it 100 percent because angry joe when it comes to anything other than video games
He doesn't know what the hell he's talking about. He's got 82 percent. He probably did give it that
He's only predict is three out of ten
Eight out of ten
And then it shows three out of ten after that wait it does
Yeah
Oh, who was the one that who was the one that gave it an eight out of ten?
Do we have to do we have to efap the last two minutes of the fucking angry joe terminator dark fake because
We have a it says eight out of ten and three out of ten and I don't have audio because we're
Strim and book it up. You could watch it online. I think so. Well, there's one of two
Two things that might have happened either angry joe gave it a three and his retarded friend alex gave him out of ten
An eight out of ten. So who gave the three? So it was the other way around
I don't know. I haven't so from what I just saw joe. Oh, no, he said terminator genesis if I turn off
Rain was an eight ten
Did again, sorry mister. I know I know it is it is it is mind-boggling
I believe that angry joe said that terminator genesis if I turn off my brain was that eight out of ten what?
No, no
Do we have to do we have to take a detour from jenny's shitty video to watch the last three minutes of an angry joe movie?
Review joe why are we being intercepted by the dynamic hispanic?
To clarify he gave the new one a three in fairness in fairness
He's saying you have to turn off your brain and not think about anything about
Because if that's the case then
For the blinking lights in the fights, I guess
Uh, even then
Even then that's like a like don't you care about why?
Anything is the way it is because then there's a three out of ten yet that I haven't listened to
So the three out of ten was for dark fate, yeah
I don't know yet. I I haven't listened to it
I just scrolled because there's a final verdict that says eight out of ten and I scroll a little further
There's a final verdict three out of ten
And i'm so confused right now. I don't know what's real
We gotta give jenny a time surely we can put this on the we will we will we will look into this
Yeah, but jenny's shit. I know
Jenny's video is really bad
Yeah, but this is really unfair. We've covered less than a quarter
We'll do we'll do a break for an angry joe
Hey, hey joe for an angry joe
Angry I that was legitimately a slip of the tongue. I'm sorry. I apologize
I didn't mean to call him. I didn't mean to call him angry joe
All right
I didn't need to
Angry to you is a slip of the tongue. I swear
Hold on. I'm not implying that angry
I don't i'm not saying that I joe vargas is jewish
All right
He's obvious hispanic. He's obviously catholic
So what we're gonna need to do is we're gonna need to watch the last three minutes of angry joe as in joseph's
review of terminator dark thing
No, no, no, no, all right. I've made a note of where we were
We'll get back to jenny. I swear
All right
Listen you can clip it. It doesn't matter because there's nothing wrong with jews being angry
I you're you're you're anti-semitic if you think the jews don't have anything to be angry for
There how about that flip that right back on you? Yeah, oh how the tables have turned. Oh, hey
That's a quote for the ages like why is the context of that needed to be set no problem with the jewish people
Oh my god, all right
This is the same joy. I
Didn't like it at the at first. We'll talk about it in spoilers and then then it was okay
Well, this was spoilers towards the end that i didn't mind it as much
So when I wasn't thinking about the implications in the universe when I wasn't thinking about like the interesting writing decisions
Just to make sure that I really wanted the movie to go in a different direction, too
And so like the brain off score of this movie's like it shouldn't have been a terminator film
It should have been a different so it is his retarded friend
Then you wouldn't have the best parts arnold and minda
Yeah, but and so like that that is it's difficult if i'm thinking about this movie this movie is like dead average
But if i'm just sitting down and I want to be a mass audience person i'm gonna lie that um much
That blue and black plaid shirt with the yellow underneath
Man I I admire a man who takes risks like that. Yeah, those colors are not working together
What do I know? I bet he's got a really great dad bod underneath there. What do you think wolf?
Uh
I don't know i'd have to
It maybe if he stands up
Because he might be hiding like some horrible gut under there. All right, that's fair enough
Because I do care this could easily be like a seven or an eight, but it's hard you have to kind of decide where you fit
Alex gave gives this one an eight. No gives it a five. Yes. I know I know you
He said
That's okay. That's what the with the stipulation if you turn your brain off
It's an eight because that's my rating. It's an eight out of ten. Oh, no. So it's about
I tried to give you the benefit of the oh wait that
Well, i'm so confused. What are they talking about?
He just said that if you consider this movie without the terminator franchise it like goes up
And he says like the best parts are lindor and arnold. So it's like this has to be dark figure can't be genesis
Now I want to ask you joe before I uh go deep into my rating here
You saw genesis. Yes with you. You saw salvation. No, I have not
What it didn't look good y'all. Yeah, like is it like did you see t3?
But it's been so long. Yeah
Okay, did you I like it better than genesis?
It's better than genesis this one terminator genesis. Did you like this one better than terminator genesis?
Oh, and i'm undecided on whether or not I think genesis is worse actually is complicated. It's really tough to figure out. Honestly
I don't want to make that decision for me. I refuse to watch dark
The the the question i've actually been thinking about myself is what's worse
To let john carner win the war and lead people to victory for him to then be killed and converted into a terminator and lead
Skynet so that's pretty insulting
or
After t2 he shotgunned to bits
Hmm well at least if you shotgun the bits he can't be a friend but
But
At least he saved humanity and the other one before he got turned into a terminator
He gets turned into a terminator though. That's so fucked
We have to argue which one is worse dying or
We're asked to fuck it. We're asked to just be like ruin terminator disrespect the franchise and the fans like all right
How about we turn john carner into a terminator or we just kill him when he's a kid?
They're like the two top choices. It's like they did both of them unironically in different continuities. It's insane
Or turning I think that it's interesting that we have dark fate killing off john carner like this so we can't save humanity
And at the almost at the same time we have episode nine where darth vader didn't kill palpatine
He's still alive. We have to have ray do it like what why are these new franchises?
So focused on taking away the achievements of old beloved characters and giving them to the shitty new ones
It's like it's kind of like a pattern now
Predators were always just hunting for autism
Like why do you hate the old things so much and at the same time want to make money off of it
It reminds me of that clip from the the it movie
Uh tv series or whatever where she's like, why does it hate?
We're referring to hollywood at this point. Why does it hate?
It's like they grudgingly accept that these old things can make money and they don't actually give a shit
So, yeah, I think we can clearly then joe and critical gave dark fate eight out of ten
Not bad
Well, there's a three out of ten
They still have to see what let's see what that is. Yeah
You did yeah, we're gonna go somebody gonna look up your rating for the first one and find consistency
All right, so here and and honestly I have some inconsistency too because I rated genesis an eight
Terminator genesis the acting is worse. The acting is much better in this in termin
You rated terminator genesis an eight eight out of ten joe you make it so hard for me to understand
How you manage to review games one way and movies you cannot review
Yeah, I
If you ever wanted more evidence as to why joe's opinion on film doesn't matter
He reviewed terminator genesis an eight like we've talked about this, right?
They're all so bad all of these new movies
But genesis is one of the ones that like it has the trophy of being the worst because it it deletes
It deletes two minute one and two
It's
Like oh my goodness
It's like if ray did actually go back in time and just murder luke layer han
Anakin all in their sleep while they were babies. That's like what genesis does to t1 and 2 and it's just like whoa
Damn
Someone hey google googly-eyed phoenix and chat made a good comment. He says is joe
Targaryen a coin is flipped every time he does a review
Targaryen every time he does a review. I don't even think he does a movie review of coins flipped
I guess yeah, he's probably been on point with some movie reviews, right? I haven't seen all of it. Sure. I mean, yeah
That's just a statistical, you know
Yeah, I mean i've seen a few videos where he's like come to the correct conclusion and had good argumentation for it
But i'm pretty sure it's only because he's incidentally correct
It's not like angry joe batman first superman
Jay Longbone said john connor died a hero and lived long enough to see himself become a villain
He achieved
That's only including one continuity if you slap the other one he was also fucking
Obliterated as a child before he got to do anything
Looks like the final verdict for batman v superman
Is a seven out of ten
But joe so stupid
Aqua, let me look up his aquaman one. Oh, no. Oh, i'm pretty sure he loved it
angry joe aquaman
uh
He's given this a seven out of ten
Aquaman seven aquaman seven out of ten. All right. All right, joe
Friend normie we get a better. Yeah, it's like, okay
Angry joe, what's what's another movie i need to check suicide squad just look just look at suicide squad
It tells you justice league. What did he give justice league? Well, let me i'll do suicide squad
I actually know that he did welcome to the jenny nickels stream everybody
He actually did genuinely not like, uh justice league. Okay, so suicide squad he gave an eight out of ten
Yeah
Oh, dude, eight out of ten
The predator and I know this is bad because I remember watching his video and he says in the predator review
Hey, I was wrong about suicide squad, but i'm not wrong on this one. This is a good film
Well, he gave the predator a six out of ten
This is the thing. It's like a zero
Yeah, that video didn't do too well, yeah, but for angry joe the distance from eight to seven is like it depends
Between a nine to a two for the rest of us. Let's get a um
What do they call it like what did he give justice league if he didn't like justice league whatever he gave that we should consider
Is his low marks, right?
Angry joe justice league
All right, he gave justice league a
I'm scrolling we're scrolling
I can't see it. Does he not have a graphic for the final review score?
Oh, maybe he didn't put it on screen at that point
justice league
I I can't see it on the timeline. He doesn't have a graphic pop-up. I don't think I thought he gave it a bad review
I might be thinking of a
Of a different movie, but i'm pretty sure there was like one dc movie at least that he like actually despised
um
Granted I don't know how many angry joe movie reviews i've sat the whole way through but yeah, I don't know
We'd have to listen to it. Um, but we still have the three out of ten to listen to for this apparently he apparently he comes around
To saying it's not great in the spoiler justice league. Uh, well for dark fate
Oh, which it says watch joe's spoiler review. He comes around and stop saying joker is anything but a mess of a movie
um
I want to lie to you guys
Yeah, that would be that would be bad. Yeah, we we we you know gotta be consistent
If he thinks the predator is with six out of ten, I couldn't care less for anything else to say about movies
Well, this is the thing. I don't know what's going on with him in movies. He's a weird man
I think he goes quickly real quick. I would like to hear the three out of ten. All right
The action is worse
except
It it has got future war scenes and I think that's what hyped me up so much because I love the future war
Honestly, I just want a future war film. I went I want t2 3d
If you know t2 3d, it was an it was a real life experience in orlando studios florida
And that is the real t3
It is the real continuation of the story john connor and and arnold
All right now in the future and they're fighting and they go into the future and they take on skynet
Look it up. You could watch it online. I think so. But anyways, so
I'd say terminator genesis
In realistic turn off my brain was that eight out of ten, right?
But really in retrospect, it's like a six out of ten six this one here. It's like a two at best fate
Turn off my brain. It's an eight out of ten or a turn off my brain was six out of ten for genesis
This is an eight out of ten turn off your brain
Turn off your brain. You want to talk about to this is like the saying this thing's like saying well
If you don't count the bad stuff, the movie's great. That's what I mean about turn off your brain
Isn't everything a 10 at that point or what are you judging at that point? I have bad news
Uh, he gave justice league an eight out of ten
Oh, oh, maybe I was thinking at the 10. Yeah chat. Let me know. Um dirt master flex he at 10 minutes in
He flashes the graphic for eight out of ten. Oh, man
Justice league is an eight out of ten. He's so bad
Oh man a faithful adaption of the lore and a continuation you're looking at a three
You know
Because the anger then comes back from from that that beginning scene and then the all right. That's that's better
I mean, it's something i'm okay with this
Yeah, sure. I'm I'm downright surprised considering everything else you've been saying about his scores
He's given this one a three when considering everything and turning your brain on. All right, that's he's still wrong about genesis, but
Hideously wrong. Yeah justice league out of ten
The implication of where do we go next you you've you've ruined it there you go thinking again you've ruined it
I don't I mean my criticism of docfait isn't that you can't see where it can go next
They basically say that the war is about to start at the end of the film. So he did mention the first scene
Being something that made him angry. So no no true, but he's saying among the criticisms. Like where do you go next?
like oh
They can do whatever they want. They want to make a trilogy
By the way, i'm going back to his man of steel review back in 2013
Joe's gained a lot of weight
Yeah, yeah
Just just just just something I noticed
I mean you look back. Let me I look back out of here. Let me post this picture and you're like man
this dude
Needs to take it easy on the tacos, you know, I remember him from the channel awesome days. He was like a twig
Don't like it. I don't like the the future war here
And I don't like that you gave me so literal of the future war at the beginning and I don't like
So talking about future wars, it's not it's not like
So we had the future war movie and it was really bad
I mean i'm not gonna happily say that salvation is just bad
It's not great
Like there's a lot of problems. Well, it's but the movie completely lost me when they had the terminator that didn't realize he was a term
Yeah, no, I know, um, the I guess the justification is that
Softly prevents him from realizing it or some shit, but I don't really care. It's like
Ooh
Terminator bombs against dark fate and abs apocalyptic 11 million on friday is over one day
I guess that's this friday
um, all right, that's
Pretty bad pretty bad. I'm pretty sure the film probably cost more than 100 million, right? That's probably a safe bet
I mean, it's got Arnold in it. It's got linda hamilton. They go to a lot of places lotus special effects explosions
Visits and it was certainly certainly advertised quite a bit. Yeah, uh, so
Google's saying that the film's budget was between 185 to 196
So they wanted to fail miserably I want them to I do too in the fucking cradle and we'll do it again
We'll try again guys. We've deleted cannon before
Let's just do it again. Don't don't try it again. Don't try it again. Please don't try it again
Okay, fine. Yeah, I'd settle for that but i'd also settle for deleting this one from cannon
Well, yeah delete everything from cannon and then don't try again
They release a movie and all it has is led to howlton and rubes say it like man
Nothing else happened after t2 and that's it. Hey credits
She just comes down to the screen and she's like, yeah everything after t2 fuck that shit and she walks off and that's the end
It's like yeah, i'll do it. Let's do it
I'm at the point if I was if I was a hollywood if I became a hollywood star like, you know rich evans
And I was in a I was in an action film and I played the hero
And we made two amazing movies and I was great and I was iconic and filmed for the rest of always and they said hey
I know it's been 20 years 30 years. Whatever. We're gonna make another one you in i'm like fuck. No
Fuck no
Uh, uh, do you guys are we carrying on with this? We're gonna go back and visit jenny
Um, oh, yeah, jenny. I tell you what you discuss amongst yourselves. Um,
the
Stuff and I will go use the loo and grab alcatisms and i'll be right back. Hey wolf. How about that stuff?
Who's that?
What stuff that stuff arthur?
Oh
that stuff
Uh
Okay
I guess I can mention that stuff. Oh man, we're only at three hours. That's weak
Yeah
How long are you gonna be available for just so I didn't actually ask you that
uh
Well with how long you've been
Going lately
I don't know if i'll be able to make it through the whole
Stream because I gotta open the store tomorrow
Well granted that it's six hours before midnight. So there's still quite a while a while left
I'll probably like I can probably like jump off and like grab something to eat in like a couple like an hour or two
You know, it could probably stay a while. Yeah, but uh
I imagine we'll need another
I'm not even gonna make a guess every time I make a guess there's a talk about it about it
Like oh this time several is like it'll take another hour. It's like five hours later. It's like yeah, I don't know
I just guess stuff
I mean, we're only three hours in and we got slept
We made it seven minutes into jenny's video
I don't know if we can finish this video. I mean, well, this is the thing
I was hoping to cover cinnamorroberto today, but don't think we'll be able to we're gonna have to struggle to get through jenny's alone
Christ she's really bad. We're we are falling behind on efap
We've got so many videos to cover and the reason why i'm like stressed about it
It's like episode nine's gonna come out and we're gonna get like a think of my like 20 terrible video essays within a week
I should probably mention I won't be here for the initial episode nine stream because i'll be out of state
Four days after it comes out. We will have so many streams about episode nine. I'm sure of it
Dude just writes video on episode nine. I can't wait to see what he's gonna say
Like I wonder what his arguments will be
And I say this swap his name out with cinnamorroberto with patrick. Jackson eric taxon reviews
It's gonna be so great everything it's like it's like the encore for tlj
It's like here it comes guys
Let's get ready for the next roller coaster because we know what it's like this time. We went on it brand new before but this time
Oh
You know, we've only literally got two months less than two months
Oh, yeah shawn as well
Man
That's that's not even mentioning i'm probably going to be infuriated by doctor sleep. I know you won't really have any
Well, I want to I want to watch it so we can at least talk about it
But you there is a good chance that I end up being like either that it's fine or that I like it
And I just have no reference for the book
Uh, I mean from what i've seen from the trailers i'm like 99 positive they're gonna fuck it up. Mm-hmm
I can't wait to watch the the videos that say episode 9 ruin tlj. Honestly, that's like
So much that is pure brain juice
Pumped right in just like hilarity and critical thinking
Obliterated into fireworks. It'll just what if what if just right makes that video. I hope he makes that video
Somebody's got to make that video like jj ruined ryan's vision
It's gonna happen
I guess I should I guess I should talk about the thing
Okay
The thing do you know which thing in particular you're talking about?
But what I don't type what you mean. I don't know what you're actually referring to
What you were the one that brought it up
What tlj
The thing you keep saying just type it type what the thing is
Uh
Because i've told you you can't talk about porn live like they get all thingy about it
Yeah, if you want it's completely up to you, man
Okay
so
I made a channel
I don't
Know I don't have any do I gotta plan for doing a thing fucking hell. Can I not undo that shit?
I'm sorry chaos zig. I accidentally hid your comments on the
Fucking chat. I gotta figure out how to undo that. It won't it literally won't fucking let me literally the best
Because I tried to do the the spam guy
Well, here's thing
Yeah, because you have to go all the way to the right of the screen to bring the drop down menu
You know where the words in the text aren't and I guess I was up a little bit. So
What it's like this is ui shit that a multi gajillion dollar company shouldn't do
I got to figure out how to get chaos back here
So wolf uh you I think you may have been saying something of some kind I don't know what it was
Would you like to say again?
Uh, okay, so I made a couple videos
On a new channel
I don't have any plans for
future stuff
And I should mention as well
I'm not going to be back on youtube to the same capacity that I was before I left
uh
Like I won't be on efap for every episode
And it's like I could go like another year before caring enough to make another video for that matter
Uh, so don't expect that i'm i'm back back. It's like i'm
I'm around that's the the best way I can put it. Uh,
It's just like I yeah, I made a couple things you could
See them channels called of writing and rage
Made a video on joker. I just uploaded a video on
Watchmen
So it's that it's a thing
So there you go. But like I said, don't don't expect like me to be like uploading
A ton of stuff like constantly or to be on the show here constantly
just
hanging around mostly
Well then if you want to like what so
What made you want to make that first video about joker?
I really really really loved the
And I hated the media bullshit around it
Mm-hmm
Um, I very much that I really really really hate
And I hate it all the good things that media says about it
Watchmen is awful. I mean I the the video I made on it is only about the first episode
the second episode
I'd say it's probably better than the first only in the sense that it doesn't destroy as much as the first one did
but uh
Yeah
That's uh, that's a thing. That's that's there
Um, yeah, there's there's that it is now in the description and yeah, you can catch obviously a link in the uh
In the channel or just type of writing and rage. I think writing and rage just those two words put together actually pull up the channel
so
Well, there you go and um
I guess
There's there's there's over an hour's worth of content already on there. So you guys
Just just go have fun and uh, just don't don't make any expectations or rush of any kind
I guess you can expect a doctor's sleep video if it's as bad as I positive it's going to be but
Oh, yeah, I will definitely not be around next week because i'm going to a tool concert. So there you go
And then yeah, um
I think you'll want to you'll you'll definitely want to be jumping on an ef for at least talk about star wars episode nine
At least once yeah, like I said, i'll be out of i'll be out west
um
For the week before christmas. I won't be getting back until late christmas eve
so
At the absolute earliest
I can probably watch it christmas day
But more likely the day after that
So I won't be on for that initial stream. So don't expect that
Yeah, we'll try and let everyone know what the plans are for the first episode nine stream, but we don't even know yet because there's lots of
Rig a mole with who to have guessed and when everyone's seeing it
I just want to make sure that people know like don't don't set your expectations that it's like i'm
Back and going to be super active and all that shit. That's
Just want to make that clear
Apparently we're congratulating you on passing 500 subs wolf. Congratulations
Well, yeah either way, uh, you'll have plenty to watch and um
Both now and after the the the episode is completely up to you folks
But is everyone happy to go back to jenny talking about how joker is kind of a kind of a not so great film
when you say
happy
Uh, I mean happy in the uh, the lift tresnik definition you probably not heard of them. They define it as sad
Lift tresnik i've made that up. I didn't it's not from anything
No, i'm i'm aware i'm just trying to think of how you even came up with it it's inspired by thinking about
several fictional
Monsters like species or place names and then trying to combine them
Well, yeah, you say lift tresnik, which almost sounds like something that might exist
And if I was to come up with something like some random word that doesn't exist i'd probably go like in which case
Uh use the scourge of mount
Yeah, i'm not quite good with thinking on the fly that's such a strange name for mountain
We are going to mount
across the plains of
I mean i'd watch it
We need that version of the lord of the race all the badass names are just replaced with guttural sounds
the minds of
I was gonna say balrog off of that change there. I was like, oh, it'd be both
Of
These names aren't as intimidating and he's like shut up
Someone's gonna clip this specific part of the stream and post it and be like see these people are retarded and they said jenny
And I wouldn't correct them on that. I'd be like
Yeah
I'm proud
Anyway, here's your channel name and of beauty and rage album reference. I'm so far I
Okay, evan kowalski. I'm so happy that you actually got that reference
It's my favorite red album. Damn. I actually thought that it was more of a reference of mice of men
No, no, it's uh when I when I was trying to think of it
um
Trying to think of a channel name. I was like, what would because I wanted writing to be a part of it
As like, well, what do I do? And then I was just listening to red one day and I was like, oh
A beauty and rage of writing and rage there writing in red. Yeah
Yeah, sure, is that your favorite color
Red. Yeah. No. Okay. What is your favorite color everyone?
blue
um
Let's say olive
I like a couple
No, beige probably blue weird grape
weird gray bluish green color
I'm uh, I like
duller tones beige's because you are dull rags. Oh
Safe round children
All right. Yeah, fair enough
Anyway, can we finally let the female speak you disgusting people?
Smoking and looking seriously out of a wall shot of arthur dancing in slo-mo
But you play violin music over it also a scene of a man dancing doesn't automatically become poignant
Just because you slow it down and put spooky violins over it
Especially when you do it more than once and by the third or fourth time it starts to just feel tiresome
like this could have been a half hour movie for how
But what if the theme was sad violin music then you'd shut the fuck up, wouldn't you?
All those stupid moments with like traveling around in stalls. If you just cut them the movie would be like fucking half an hour long
fuck
If you actually cut out every scene in which there is dancing
How much do you think you lose from the film four minutes?
Uh, you'd lose that beautiful shot at the end of the movie
Well with that really great scoring it's not thematically good. All right, so it's not good
The theme is both doesn't matter
This is this is unhappy time
What did I call it again? I forgot
No, it's it's
Uh, for some reason my brain's going to lethargy which is not what you've said
Lethargy someone in chat or about but
How you can do it remind me of my tisms I would probably say lethargy if I saw it
All right, this is Dan
Left-tresnick left-tresnick. That's it. I can't pull out. Did someone even remember that?
They probably very invested in the idea of the left-tresnick race. They remembered
Oh my god, there's gonna be a left-tresnick meme soon
I hope so
Okay, hold up before I go farther
Let me just like break down what I liked really quickly. I have a couple nods to the famous joker story
I think this was all in the killing joke where he says that anyone can go crazy if they just have one
Comically exaggeratedly monumentally bad day. They even have arthur say at one point i'm having a bad day
So, you know, that's all there. I know is that a reference to the comic?
Because most of the time most of the time when I say i'm having a bad day
It just means my day was shitty. I'm fine with it being a reference to the comic. I don't think it matters either way
Well, I will say I have a friend that I went to see the movie with who is
Bigger into comics than I am and he said that there were a few references to the killing joke that you thought were pretty good
I he didn't really elaborate. I didn't ask because I I don't know anything about the killing joke
So as far as i'm aware, I think there
There are some references in there. I just can't really name them off the top of my head because I don't know anything about it
Yeah, maybe I I certainly even if I read the comics, I probably would have been like, oh, yeah
He said that because he's having a bad day
I
Don't know if I liked it. I noticed it
I liked this one sequence where arthur goes to a movie house and they're watching this old charlie chaplin movie
I think it's the famous one that's like set in the great depression and he's like a downtrodden factory worker
And there's like this major plot point where he keeps accidentally inciting these riots or uprisings
I think there's a major part where he says that he'd rather be in jail
Like it's a comedic thing where he's trying to get thrown back in jail
Because the living conditions there are better than they are outside
So as you've probably noticed there are enough overt big plot echoes between the two stories that that's kind of cool
Unfortunately, if you want to look to that charlie chaplin movie as like an actual indicator of theme
It doesn't really work because like it is a comedy. It has a happy ending. Oh, does that mean it doesn't work for my sake jenny?
Is that what are your rules for themes exactly?
Oh lord, well even though this can be directly compared to the events in the film
It doesn't really work thematically because that's a comedy
Do you remember how rags we were talking about?
Um, which is weird because joker says I realized my life's a comedy which makes it work doubly
Well, but oh big brain jenny did oh, no, it just doesn't work
So remember how you you noted that um, there was a reference to the fly in emperor's new groove
Yeah, and I noted that there's a there's a huge reference to the fly in the simpsons
uh emperors new groove and the simpsons are
Comedic and they are intended for children the fly
Uh, not so much not so much. So the the reference doesn't really work in those
It just doesn't really work because that's how that works
It doesn't match them thematically and it's a tonal difference. Therefore. That's just how that works. Sorry folks
I like how she's explained how relevant it is and then she says but it's a comedy so can't work
Like what are you the film is still making a point whether it's a comedy or not
This is there's so much to unpack with that statement and she's so sure of herself
I'm still waiting for jeb bush to poke his head out of the porch. We need jeb at this point
Sure about that. We need jeb. I don't even want to say anything
I just want him to like slowly poke his head out and stare at her with a very concerned expression
Can someone photoshop that please let's just just take this image on the screen right now
And just just photoshop the porg's mouth
Open with jeb's head coming out staring at her
Every time there's a poor take on joker. He slowly slips out looking concerned
You just see the little glint and the and the barely open mouth of the porg
Anyone is like a super talented editor. Please please make that a video
Oh
Oh, and uh, someone's asking what is the reference in emperor's new groove?
I i'm not sure about myself because i haven't seen the movie recently but rags. What did you say it was?
it was when um
He first became a llama and he fell in the woods
And there was the fly
That was flying around and it got stuck in the web and it goes help me help me and then the spider eats it
Yeah, that would be it. Um, that's referencing. Sorry not
Necessarily the fly of 1958. Uh, the it's referencing the old one not the
The jeff goldblum one, but the old one is still I wouldn't say suitable for children. Um
But yeah, uh, it's just interesting stuff I like it when they do it simpsons reference fucking everything
I think it's just him like getting a girlfriend and going to make things work in the real world
So, um, it's it's not like a one one correlation. I just think it's kind of cool to reference an old movie
Um, but I don't think it necessarily
Tied the whole thing together. I don't know that it was what is the point of this
She's delving into the mechanics of a movie that he watches in the movie that shares similarities
But not 100 and totally doesn't match. Okay. I like that. They had an old movie, but it okay
All right, then I guess sure she's a strange person
From this
I don't know. I call it like a little half baked which isn't to say that it doesn't get points
It gets like exactly half points. It's half baked. You know a half baked chocolate chip cookie
Is I don't know what it means to get half points from you jenny
Half baked chocolate chip cookie. Yeah, you you like tlj
What is half points from you now with full points for tlj? So what you want is no points from here
That's what you're aiming for
Still pretty good. I really like the color scheme of the joker's outfit
I'm, sorry everyone in the chats go putting jeb in front of famous people
Jeb
bridges jeb connor
Jeb porgstein
Jeb skywalker
jebry abstain jeb goldbloom
jebry abstain
Jeb christ
jadea, I still like jeb nee dickelson
Jeb named jeb wallburn
Jeb wallburn jeb hitler
Jeb stellone kick jeb
Jeb of the rings jeb moussellini
Jeb
two jeb two jebrias
We got kylo. We got kylo jeb. That's a good one. Jeb phoenix jebo jaggons jeb baker jeb jennesis
jeb
angry jeb
Jeb stellan jebifer jebber jebzella the great jeb
Okay, we we need a we need a bail when drawing jeb rr
Yeah, we got let's see what else we got jeb three jeb thu mcconaughey jeb fk
Yeah, jeb clinton
Jeb zadong jebz is christ
Jeb jeb abrams
jebler
Jeb snow, there we go
Just take all these piss out. He's like becomes extremely lame
Obie jeb can obie jeb is christ
Jeb goldbloom jeb shapiro jeb trump jeb xe
Jebbie nickelson jim jeb oh, oh no jeb alt of rivia
Oh god
Jj, jeb jeb sama bin laden
Is the best of all this the idea jebaka after he's retired from all the shit that happened
He just goes on youtube one day. He's like, oh they're talking about joker. Okay, i'll check this out like randomly
cease this
alternative alternatively ossama jeb laden
Jeb jeb banks jib laden jubla the jeb
Jeb ker. Oh, no
Um, this is your fault jenny. Yeah jeb-a-bo lector
Of writing and of writing and jeb
Uh, she changed my channel
No, jebadiah smith. Oh, this is great. Uh
Jeb muff tarkin do you schwartz inward jeb rogan?
Jeb jones
Jeb genesis the last jebby
Just she had the ripper of mice and jeb
Buffy the jeb
The jeb
Slayer out of that too. They're just puffing the jeb. I like fuck it
He's just the jeb
Oh unbridled jeb
Stark
This is the tale of captain jeb sparrow
angry jeb
Aljebone the jeb awakens count jebula
Uh, jeb pokerson jeb palpatine every frame of jeb
Uh jebolian jeb
Adolph jebler jebolian jebo jeb is a mess
The big jeblowski jebariz
Jeb-terrian
Jeb off jitler jebwick the lie of the witch and the jeb
Oh my god jeb and jenny
Jebawalkie some of them were gum like fallout new jeb
No, oh my god. I think I just saw no country for old jeb
Oh citizen jeb
Two jeb one bush jebawalkie
jabron
You guys know about the flies I found an apple right steve jeb's
The jeb in the stone, oh, you know the alpha motorings jebalis
Infinity jeb detroit become jeb
Jeb
12 angry jeb's
Oh my goodness spongebob jeb a wrinkle in jeb
Jeb and the giant peach
I would watch that so much
Oh
Avengers age of jeb the hateful
Tommy jebzo the jeb element 12 years of
Oh god 2000 gems under the sea
Full metal jeb
Jeb below the britain man
So when he films his wicks with oh gi jeb
Jeb and the chocolate fact for 50 shades of jeb
Jurassic jeb the father the son in the jeb
2001 a jeb odyssey. What is jeb short for something? It's such a bad name the fellowship of the
Once upon a time in jebby wood
Oh movie jeb conspiracy, that's a great jeb man for cert terminator dark shit
Oh, no, jeb jeb's bizarre adventure jeb father
Uh, oh my goodness
Metal gear solid three jeb eater jeb eat
Who's gonna win jeb unchained jeb almighty
the matrix jeb loaded
Jeb loaded
alien versus jeb
crouching tiger hidden jeb
Oh
In jeb we trust oh my good terminator jeb is shawn of the jeb
Oh, it's not even jeb of the dead it's just showing the jeb
A song of jeb and jeb
Oh, no shindler's jeb
Oh
Jeb's league the red jeb redemption. Oh, this one's great the italian jeb
The walking jeb jump the drum mission impossible jeb protocol a few good jeb's
Harry potter is the jeb. This is the jenny jenny nickleson episode
Is this the jeb episode million dollar jeb on the cover
Replace all the pictures with us being jeb
Jeb demic
The jeb the jeb mile
The jeb in the trifle i like how chat is getting faster with these
No, it's hard to actually read them. I have to stop it. Yeah t python in the holy jeb
The league of extraordinary jebes
Uh inter jebler inter
A fistful of jeb's curse of the black jeb
Oh my god
Oh mundane jeb
Oh my goodness, oh my jeb finger
Oh, um the jeb shank redemption rise son of jeb
Oh raiders of the lost jeb i've got some um slum jeb millionaire
I've collected some episode relevant memes
Okay, all right
Okay, no more jeb's
No more jeb's. No more. We're gonna we're gonna die if we get jeb's
I appreciate the last temptation of jeb
I appreciate 28 jeb later
I I appreciate reservoir jeb's oh god and the nightmare before jeb they're all amazing
the nightmare before jeb's
So time immemorial until jeb was no no
Listen we can't have any more godzilla king of the jeb's. Okay angry jew
Oh, no, it's not a channel I wouldn't subscribe to oh the jack saint one is sad
Is this transformers is it transformers 2
I don't know why transformers no
I think so. Yeah. Oh, um
That's megatron, isn't it? Yeah
Yeah
We had a scary jeb's to tell in the dark more than one attempt at angry jew
Angry jew that was a legit slip-up and it's become something
Are you sure about
Epstein didn't kill himself
Uh
What is in the porg's eyes I don't know I can't tell but I know there's that they're not right like the bottom part of it
Okay, that's yeah, it's jeb in the middle. Are you sure about that?
um
Epstein didn't kill himself. No. Trump is coming out of the eye at the bottom
Oh, it's trump
Yeah, I don't know what's going on in the eye on the top though. Yeah, I don't know either
Is that like a rally? It looks like hands up like it's a celebration
Uh, I can't tell this is the uh, there's a couple of these we'll be having for the meme stream
This guy which is like animated memes that are drawn like in some kind of program. He like draws these out
Jeb for president like jetties
Get one
Guess who's back rags
Man look at you
I got some spindly ass arms
I'm sure they're pretty strong
I like that though
That's I like it's good. It's awesome. We are not a furry podcast
The only reason i'm using this icon is because I don't know it's great. It's great
And this was sent to me as well, which is pretty awesome
Oh my goodness, did someone actually holy shit that's amazing. It's amazing. That's great
Oh my goodness
Is three
Oh someone carved pumpkins of us
Someone scooped out a bunch of pumpkin guts just for us
Mm-hmm
I like this
He told me that this was gonna happen. I know right like this is insanity
Wow
Someone carved so no one's ever carved a pumpkin for me before i've always been the one who got elected to carve out the fucking pumpkin
You're the artist he's like no i'm not here i'll do it that makes you the artist
And then oh, that's great. I love that. Let me pick up the Pikachu art on there. I think this is wonderful
My art will be in a certain booth in a certain anime convention in new york. Do you like certain arts? I don't know what that means
I think let's not skip over the fact that the first thing he said was my art will be in a certain booth at a certain anime
convention
It just works so well because he's like I like certain art
Like whoa, slow down there buddy
Yeah, he deleted that video. So I guess he's he's erased it from memory
I wish I'd had it downloaded such a great video. The uh, I can't remember what it was called like his art subjective or whatever
roundtables take
Good times good times anyway back to jenny
I was hoping there could be more memes. No, it's just episode relevant memes. We've got about a thousand memes
To come. Oh, holy shit. How many episodes did you go? Did you go without doing memes many like four?
Really many why'd you go that long without seeing them? Well, it wasn't me. Do you know
Yeah, we just had guests who just like would be sitting there doing nothing while looking at these insane memes and but we're
It's we'll take care of it. It's gonna be fine. We'll take care of it. We're all good. Things are great
Everything is great. We're gonna listen to jenny talking about the audience. How dare you? Oh, they will be
Trade they will be untrade soon enough
untrade that sounds
Look it up. I don't know. I want to be fine. There's the opposite of betrayed
I don't know about that 110 000
This particular color scheme is lifted from some already existing incarnation of the joker, but it's not
Familiar to me. I don't think i'm used to like purple and green
So I thought it was good. Also i'm going to praise the thing that everybody is praising that walking phoenix's performance is really good
It was really good. There's not a lot to say about that. No, did movie bob say it was good or bad
The film was a whole was he half and half? Can you say something to the effect of like he works well with the material he has
Something like that something really condescending like that. I don't think i've heard anybody say that. Um
He did badly yet because he'd have to be retarded to have that position
trying to think if anyone actually has
I don't think i've heard that yet. I mean, yeah, it's just not the position
Surely there are there are definitely people who say it. I just can't put a name to him at the moment. That's the thing
I think that's why we assumed it was movie bob. Like it's an insane take. Who was it? It's like might have been movie bob
Oh, yeah, who?
That's the thing. They're all nuts
Kind of social disorder and not just like a weird character. Someone in the chat actually pointed out his performance was really good
What's up with all this boring dancing?
I guess she means the spoken portion of his performance everything else. I guess he danced well, but the dancing I guess
Didn't fit
Where it was
Just their opinion guys jesus christ. Yeah
Is there opinions like eddie redmane in the fantastic beast movies?
Sorry, I can't stop coming for the fantastic beast movies and to give credit you can't stop
For the fantastic. I'm, sorry. You must I guess you heard it too. Just
All right, if I listen, I i'm well if you really feel that way I get hard
To man, I I totally get it. I just making sure I heard what I heard
Yeah
It's a strange thing to uh to admit
Yeah, man, go ahead whack it to the fantastic beast. Do do your thing
Do your thing everybody's entitled like eddie redmane. Yeah, man. Doesn't doesn't hurt me
I can't stop coming for the fantastic beast movies. Oh, she did say it. That's so strange. I mean, all right
Listen, listen, you know
I said angry you who knows what she meant. Maybe I don't know
Yeah
But she had well, here's the thing you said it live in an uh in an unscripted stream
Yeah, I guess that it had to edit this and upload it
I guess hey, man. Uh
All right. Now. I know what makes jenny come I guess fantastic beasts
She can't stop coming to fantastic
That might be a medical thing I don't know I feel you
Yeah
uh
raising
It's a book script as written
I actually also liked a lot of the character details you see of arthur at the beginning
Like the fact that he has a little laminated card that he hands to people about his condition
And the scenes of him at the comedy club where he's trying to like sit at the back
And write physical notes about what topic of joke is getting laughs because he just can't understand like the nuances of comedy
And can't figure out how to relate to people. It's like your heart
She probably meant coming at
Yet, I know what she forgot the at
Yeah, i'm pretty sure that her intention wasn't that I just my I can't stop receiving intense sexual
Satisfaction from the idea of harry potter's magical beasts
Oh
Lord besides we all know that i'm the i'm the fantastic
So yeah, yeah
Well, then again, that would just make what I thought she said make all more sense
Totally agree with her in those scenes. I thought those were really good
I would relate not related to coming to fantastic beasts what she says about how she likes this scene is like
So how do you differentiate between why couldn't use all the things that she didn't like in these other scenes?
How couldn't you apply those to this scene that she does like?
I mean can we I think agree the the structure and standard those two words are just out the window with videos like this
I have no idea. It's like why why does your criticism of the dancing scenes and the other scenes you didn't?
You didn't like how come that doesn't
Also work with this scene in the comedy club
Like i'm sure maybe she could come up with a reason maybe she elaborates on it
But if you were to ask me based on what i've heard so far
I wouldn't be able to tell you because every scene just seems to there doesn't seem to be a standard
Here there doesn't seem to be criteria to judge scenes or films on not a whole lot
No, certainly not consistent scenes later that I think are going to be looked at as like his acting moments that I don't think
Indicate good acting. I think it's all in the subtle stuff at the beginning
But i'm sure everybody's going to be like oh that scene where he's
Smoking and staring at the wall or that scene where he's like contorting his body in a weird way. What do you think dancing is?
I uh, so jenny, uh, most people probably reference just the the entire performance
Um, that's what I seem to be seeing from most people
I've not seen anyone saying oh man
He admitted his best was that scene where he was smoking while staring at a wall
And I would reference
Obviously the the scene standing on the car dancing with all the people riding on them
Or uh that scene after he killed randall and he was just like
smiling like sadistically at gary
Such a great scene. I remember my first time watching that
When gary can't open the door he goes over and I was like, oh man
I definitely gotta kill him here and then he unlocks it opens it and he's like gary and he closes it and I was like
Oh, no, and he I thought he was going to say something to the effect of like, you know
I can't let you leave and then he didn't and then I I felt so relieved for that
It was different for me. Um, I was like, is he gonna kill him?
Is he gonna kill him but then he says you could go and I was like, oh no, of course
He wouldn't kill him. Why would he kill him? There's no reason you would kill him
Yeah, and then when he gets up to close the door, I was like i'm sure this is just he still let him go
I'm sure let me ask you this question mauler and wolf
Dude, did you feel more emotional attachment to gary?
In that one scene
Than you did for tyrian lannister in season eight
Which midget did you have a bigger emotional?
Tyrion hasn't exactly been a good character since
Like before the last episode of season four. We're playing the game of best midget
And I need to I heard more interesting
Interesting tidbit the midget from joker is in game of thrones for a couple of episodes
Really? Where was he? He's the one in the uh, the play where they're playing out the
Where he plays as tyrian. Yep. He's playing tyrian in it
I wonder how he got that role. I don't know they needed another midget
Oh, is that is that it just picked out the first one they phoned I guess. Oh, okay. I guess. Okay
That's a racializing moment right there. You can't say that midgets are a race. Yes
They're from planning the back way. This is just rags. It's like no, I have no this there is nothing unfair about my question
And it's like contorting your body and doing
Exhausting does not equal good acting
Doing exhausting things does not equal good acting. All right
So what does equal good acting jenny?
Okay, so we're just she's the advocate for all of the reverend willing to hear it out
I find that fascinating like he needs to come across as unhinged and uh
relatively like his body is I don't know I wouldn't go as far as saying crippled but
um altered due to a life of having been beaten when he was much younger that that scene pretty early on when he's like
uh
Messing with the shoe at the the clown agency and you get that shot from his back where he just looks twisted and long
It's a great shot
It's almost like beneath the surface
You could kind of see how and then and then of course there's the dancing and she's just like doing all that doesn't mean you're a good
Actor and i'm just saying you're like, what does it mean then tell me or
Oh, this is right. I'm just like it's like it's one of those things by itself. I'd agree with it's like
Yeah, sure trying hard doesn't necessarily mean you did good
But what does that have to do with in relation to what you're saying? Can you like tie that to something?
Someone said good acting is having your shirt off while you're talking to ray
Oh, that's true. Oh, no
And I think people conflate the two a lot it's like that scene in mama mia where meryl streep is doing the winner takes it all
the winner takes it
Um
What I don't see how these are connected
That's bad. I guess it's strange. It's like she doesn't know what to do
It's like the scene kept going on way longer than she anticipated and she has like I got to do something with my hands
It's weird sure it's like a whole different parameter for a judgment
little odd
She seems like a hand sort of so just as like how the fuck do you compare these two?
Yeah, I guess she's trying to make the comparison that meryl streep's really trying in this scene
But that doesn't mean she does a good job. Like let's let's assume she's saying you see these awkward movements
It's like joker does that too. I'd be like you do get these two on the same characters, right?
in the same experiences I I just
Okay, that's where i'm at right now i'm just like, okay
The winner
Looks like the
Okay, I mean
I like thanks for referencing mamma mia a film that many of us is deaf have definitely seen
Have either of you guys seen it?
No, I think i've heard of it, but I just watched it. All I hear is this a sequel
I don't know why there's the abbas song. I know I just know there's an abbas song called mamma mia and then like mario
says it or something
That's all of your files on that in total
This little guy in your head who opens up the fucking folder and he's like I got uh, it's abba
mario
Mamma mia
This is a full revenue back in the folder
She's just flailing her arms and her scarf everywhere. How the fuck is having to do a joker like
Wailing out the song and that was a well received performance. Everybody's like wow
She really went for it on that song and it's like, okay
Man merrill running up those stairs. That was me. I'm missing something
What I guess has been getting from this
I used to think that my life was a tragedy. What?
This is weird. I guess this is a joke these I guess because these don't match
Chat, what do you think? I'm left confused
All right now I realize
It's a comedy
This is bizarre so yeah, is it supposed is is her point that it's supposed to fit
Is this because it doesn't supposed to be absolutely nothing like the movie
Just a weird joke based on passing. Yeah, because I feel that it
it only
If anything it only matches up coincidentally at times
Well, she's done. She's cut this deliberately like
Whenever there's a thump this character does something it's like you can do this with every trailer ever
But I don't like I think i'm maybe i'm reading too much into this just supposed to be laughed at in which case i'm like, oh
Yeah
I guess my comedy level doesn't work
Maybe we've become too cynical. I guess our hearts have crusted over
I'm sorry, but the the shot of her and the the overalls it reminds me of uh
That that scene right at the very beginning
Tropic thunder where they're playing like the the trailers and there's the simple jack trailer
What a reference
I don't know why it made me think of that, but we were talking about tropics yesterday. It's weird that you'd bring that up
That is actually really weird. Yeah, we did mention it strange
And then didn't you and metal watch tropic like five days ago?
We should watch tropic thunder together. I love that movie. That film is so fucking good
It's honestly underrated. I'm gonna go that far like I don't think enough people have seen and loved that film
A lot of people reference that don't never go full retard
But it's like that's like not even a lot of people don't even know that that's where it's from
I imagine a lot of people like they know the reference. They don't know the actual film. How many people do you think?
Really think that character is black
How many people do you think don't understand that that's actually
Didn't he make iron man one and tropic thunder in the same year?
He he made iron man one first
I believe and then he made it like made tropic thunder really soon like or at least it released soon afterward
He was like how awesome was it? Did we check 2008 for how good that was as a year?
Yeah, we I mean we went through every year from now until was that one of the stronger ones?
I don't even remember if that was on the list from google
Better than but I don't remember off the top of my head, but I mean
That's such a Tom cruise's best role. Tom cruise is amazing in that film
I genuinely didn't know it was tom cruise. I watched that movie like 30 times and it wasn't until you told me it was
Remember he's like once we are framing dragon. Okay flaming dragon. Fuck face
Yeah, i'll watch that again, it's great. All right framing dragon
Just
So what i'm saying is this was a similar performance, but no I thought he was really good
That was that was justify that claim whatsoever. Yeah, also you spent you did all of that to be like nah, but it was great
Okay, all right, I guess
Or even the end when I stopped liking the way arthur was written and didn't think it was very consistent
You could feel Joaquin Phoenix trying to like keep it together and feel like the same character like the fact
That as he's giving his big grandiose speech on the talk show Joaquin Phoenix is still doing kind of a childish inflection
I thought that was really good. So
Thumbs up. What was that?
His character was written inconsistently
But Joaquin Phoenix was attempting to deliver it as though he's kind of like a child, which is good
Ah
So i'm stuck all the way back at so he's supposed to be delivering lines like a child
And the inconsistency is that he's delivering
Adult lines is that I don't agree with the premise or the conclusion there
Um, I got nothing
Yeah, i'm actually a little
I don't really
I
Don't know
All right, let's listen again
I don't know
James is recommended be listening and let's feel Joaquin Phoenix trying to like keep it together and feel like the same character like the fact
That as he's giving his big grandiose speech on the talk show Joaquin Phoenix is still doing kind of a childish
Inflection I thought that was really good. So
Thumbs up. No, I got nothing. I'm just gonna carry on
I don't really know what she's trying to say with that one
It was good
But to go back to criticism as I kind of just hinted at I didn't think there was enough of a through line
For his character the way it was written and also interesting. This is a character study
So this question should be important, but
What are arthur's motivations they go ahead and give arthur lines where he doesn't want to be treated like shit
Yeah, i'm curious what she means by motivation for what to to attempt to revolt
His motivation to kill
The very essentially it is so much his motivation
It's just that he doesn't want bad stuff to be constantly done to him. He doesn't want to be treated unfairly
It's not like he wants a lot of stuff
He's like he just doesn't he just doesn't want to be abused and mistreated
He's not political
Not trying to make a statement, etc
So if he's to be believed which I understand is conditional
What does he want? Our best glimpse is what he wants. He wants satisfaction
He wants like personal satisfaction. The big part of that is just not having other people mistreat you
Yeah
To be living to live in peace essentially to be acknowledged
recognized and left in
Something less than pain. He just wants like a normal person life as far as I know
He wants to make people happy and smile. He wants to make people happy
That's his motivation. He says it many times in the film
This is the thing. I think that it's so
rock bottom simplistic as a natural motivation that we all have
That like people are struggling with it. That's why people relate to it. So well, that's why normies love this movie
Well, yeah, when I say people I meant some critics seem to be like unable to scratch at what it is. It was so yeah
almost fundamental
It is it is something we've noticed pretty obvious they're in all of the delusions the fantasy sequences he has
We can glean from the praise other characters give him what he would like to be or to be perceived as yeah comforted appreciated
You answered your question again. Yeah
Okay, what do you what do you want us to say as he wants the talk show host he looks up to to validate him
Or almost be like a surrogate father. He wants people to say that he's funny obviously, but there's one that's a little weird
This is the standout
It's something that his love interest says on one of the dates that he's imagining between them
She looks at the news stand and sees the headlines about all the riots that arthur's been inspiring by shooting the wall street guys
And she's like I think that guy is a hero
So that leads us to believe that arthur wants to be seen as a hero
Why for himself there's a lot of there's a lot of ways you can discuss what's happening there
Yeah, I think my initial take is that um, he's justifying what happened?
He's he's gonna work. He's not concerning him. It's not gonna weigh on his conscience
He's got an imaginary thing
Can the footage be more bright fuck um
It's a style. It's a style
But yeah having her tell him that this person that's providing him loads of comfort to reassure him
That he hasn't actually done that necessarily done anything wrong. That's um, that's big for him
So that suggests that he does want to start a movement he's happy that no
Did you miss the line? Do I look like the kind of one to start a movement? She's damn it the video's blocked again
Which one?
Oh the watchman one
No, no, no, no, no, not the movie
I know
uh, she's saying that because in hood in in
Arthur's
Delusion of the girlfriend being there and describing the killer as a hero that technically
He's describing himself that way and thus he wants to start a movement. I think that's a jump in logic on that last bit
I've always seen that as him attempting to rationalize that he didn't actually do anything wrong
Not that he wants to start here and become a symbol for the people or anything
What the hell kind of claim type is impact on the video
What does that mean impact on the video what is any other content used claim type impact on the video
There's no
What let me see. Oh, no way
Okay
So you got to look down claim type is the audio god damn it. I hate you disney
You always make things so much more difficult than they have to be
All right, anyway
All right. Well, I mean wolf you you saw the film yesterday. I figured you'd want to you'd want to chime in so
Oh, what are we talking about? So she's saying
That uh in his in his delusion when he's discussed
He's looking at the the paper that's saying like the the killer clown is partially inspiring whatever
that the
The girlfriend describes the person is kind of like a hero
She sees him that way or whatever so we can infer
That the joker thinks of himself at that point potentially as a hero and thus that's proof that he wants to start a movement
No
That's him using
Her imagination or his imagination to justify his actions. That's what I thought justified because
Jenny why are you why are you like this?
also
I I I know I shouldn't but I I can't help but do it
I didn't even go jenny here
That happened even if it wasn't his initial goal and he wants to be like a hero or
Influential and i'm not saying it's bad that he contradicts this later. I get that he's crazy
That wasn't subtle. So sure. Maybe he's not sure what he wants or he's being dishonest on the talk show. It's not a
This is the you know, you could see you know, you could see your if he's talking to himself
He's calling himself a hero and heroism isn't necessarily done for other people
He sees himself as a hero because he defended himself and he's he's justifying to himself that he did the right thing
Despite his nervousness
And she's jumped to it meaning that he he wants to be seen as a hero by the people
Which is not necessarily like that through line is just not
Uh definitive at all
I mean if especially if it's a delusion when people say i'm a hero, they're like yeah to me to me
Someone said she has a porg sex doll. What do you expect?
Isn't it literally called like a hero complex or is it something else? No, it's just a porg
plush I guess
I don't think he was talking about the poor gregs hero syndrome
Well
Yeah, anyway, so all of the dude bros who defend the movie and they're like he said he's not political dude
God dude bros. Yeah, dude bros
There's an in-text contradiction because my crazy ass interpretation that i've instantly leapt with to the end of the fucking rails
Hey, dude rags rags, bro. Did you see that joker movie?
Because that's weird dude, bros can love it dude, bros can love this this uh drama this
Mostly actionless drama about a single person struggling with mental illness
Dude, bros can love star wars dude, bros like superhero movies dude, bros love called dude, dude, bros can just be everything
No, dude, bro. I don't want tlj because that's an intelligent movie. Oh, I guess. Yeah
Yeah, there's not a shit ton of explosions all over that film opinion jenny. What an absolutely shit opinion
Isn't the implication of calling someone a dude bro that they're unintelligent. So they would like tlj
I'd like to highlight this an inherently sexist statement
Yeah, what do you mean dude bros?
What do you mean people jenny?
You call us a bunch of sexist
Someone said the the the picture i'm using for my icon is the face. She when she comes over fantastic
Yes
Also, i've been made aware of savior complex is probably what I was referencing my bad. Yeah, maybe um, and yeah
Sorry chat
But I don't really want to take your opinion seriously a bunch of dude bros pointing out that contradiction
So all of the dude bros who defend the movie and they're like he said he's not political
Well, there are in-text contradictions for that
I love how that directly counters what you just said as well wolf when you fist counted you like he says in the thing
You're a dude bro. She counted you with in-text references. How do you feel?
I guess i'm a dude, bro
Get fucked dude, bro. So
There in his fantasy actually then you should go
I'm, sorry. Someone in the chat said dude bros can have vaginas
I'm totally doing dude. Oh, no. No, he's back. He's back. No
Oh
No, no
No, no, no, no, no, no in the months that i've been gone
Halo 4 did not suddenly become a good game
The prequels did not suddenly become good movies and nickel pack could not possibly be a good band
Even if you tried to judge it by the way, even if you judged it by angry joe standards of judging media
But
No, watch master and commander instead that's I agree I agree but
Wait, it's so odd
No, it's just what anomaly said here
In the super chat. I was just reading it. I was at pacify. I was like, yeah dark fate was an abomination watch master and commander instead
Like oh, yeah, sure. I agree. I yeah, I agree an odd example, but it's certainly a good film
Instead it I don't know if that'll give you
But it's definitely good dark fate, but yeah, okay. Yeah, it's definitely better than dark fate from what I hear
When his girlfriend says he's a hero he even like smiles to himself
It's very obvious and like he's telling himself that for christ's sake. Why are you so narrow minded?
How does the hallucination of his own mind is telling him something?
He is talking to himself
How do you
The whole point because like right right after this
Because he kills his mom then he goes to her, right? That's the the chronology of events. So
He when he kills his mom, he's like no, this is just me. My life. Uh
Isn't a tragedy. It's a comedy
so when he
accepts that yeah, it's the voice in his head. He's just materializing it as a
uh, or
I don't think materializing it is the correct word
I can't think of the ones imagine manifesting it. Sure. Yeah, he's it his uh
His justification manifest is that?
uh, is that is his girlfriend or
fake girlfriend
And when after killing his mom, he's like yeah
You're not real, but this is how I feel. This is it. This is what I am
Um
Yeah, certainly there's something to be said about the fact that he uses her as a way to essentially be supportive of himself
Like that's the part of his head that wants support and it does manifest as a
I wonder if she's just being deliberately obtuse about this. I don't know how she could possibly
I don't know. Can I point out she's focusing hardcore on what we call a contradiction
And yet those are just fucking irrelevant when it comes to tlj
Yeah, you have to reach pretty hard you have to reach how does this work hard to make the it it is at best
Extremely ambiguous and we're not talking about how oh, she didn't acknowledge like one contradiction in tlj or something
It's like no that film is riddled
Like we haven't forgotten
Just how terrible it is. I haven't seen in a while now, thankfully, but i'll be rewatching it before I see episode nine
Which will be fun
We should watch all of the
We should just watch all of the star wars movies. I mean i'm gonna do that
Get my nice like all right get to get through the
Of the prequels and then go. Oh, yeah the the originals and then go. Oh no with everything else
Mola review her tlj video rather than making cowardly side swipes at it
I don't think you know what those words mean
Yeah, how many we've covered a lot of tlj?
Like try again, you'll get there one day
We know he won't he's got a fucking dude. You have to let them think like they have a chance. Otherwise
No, not me. He's got like an xbox avatars
They're all fucking me. Yeah
If that is what he is, I can't tell if it's an xbox avatar. Oh shit, you're right. Yeah. Sorry. That might be um
Yeah, the xbox ones. Yeah, the xbox ones called just avatars. They look they look pretty similar, but
Yeah, that's what it looks like he's a pro gamer he's he has a pro gamer right there
You'll dunk
Did it all in his actions like he engaged with the mob in some other way than just
Breaking out of the cop car seemingly by coincidence in the middle of the mob
I just wish there was a straighter line between like i'm sorry. Wait. No, I need to go back. Well
Can you go back but it was reflected at all in his actions
Like he engaged with the mob in some other way than just breaking out of the cop car seemingly
Breaking out of the cop car. They didn't break out of the car. They pulled him out
It was sloppy, but it was a rescue they they smashed a
Rammed a truck into the cop car killing the cop driving it and severely injuring
uh
Like I don't know the arthur
And then they drag him out of the broken window and put him on the trunk in hopes that he'll get up
Yeah, they want to celebrate him and this is what I mean about the whole like you watch the movie
She's trying to argue
It's like the leader starting a movement all this other stuff and it's like you do get the the other thing that he wants
Is being achieved in that moment these people are worshiping him appreciating him. He dances in front of them
like come on
She she's like she's doing her best to shove this into like one perspective
and it's been like she's just
This is so
What are you doing? Jenny?
You're not even correctly referencing the film
Because it's like it's one thing if you get something wrong every once in a while like you just misremember it but it's like
How could you possibly misremember that scene?
The whole reason he has blood on his face to be able to paint that smile is because the truck crashed into the car
It was reflected in all of his actions
Like he engaged with the mob in some other way than just
Breaking out of the cop car seemingly by coincidence in the middle of the mob. I just seemingly by coincidence
I can't believe she said that like I cannot I cannot believe this
I'm how do you fucking watch the film woman? I don't
I don't even know what to say
seemingly by coincidence it did
I am just
I am at a loss
It's her opinion for fuck's sake. Actually insane
Someone said the messages and joker too obvious proceeds to misinterpret everything and then literally forget moments of the film
I'm just like with movie bob. I am almost certain he didn't see it with jenny
We're getting to the point where i'm like, did you actually watch it or did maybe that's why you talk about the trailer?
Because that's all you saw
I how how it is a chat's right. It's a jib incidence
It is a jib incidence that he jib escaped from the car
And then he proceeded to jibance on the hood
Oh my god. Oh my good. And then he asked the crowd please clap and they did
It's a complete jib incidence. You're right
It's a straighter line between like his actions and his motivations
debate her
You know like some kind of character study. I get that the joker is some kind of crazy super villain. So he's not a super villain
Unless maybe he referring to like the typical character joker
Maybe she's not referring to this joker because this joker ain't a super villain. I mean
it's the the
Progression turning into the villain he becomes the joker at the end of the movie. Yeah
But he's not a super villain in the movie. I mean he he's definitely he's killed people and but he's killed. Yeah one two
Three all right one two three four five people
Mom randal and the three guys in the subway
So
It's like yeah killing five people's bad. Don't get me wrong
You're gonna it's gonna take a holocaust or something to get you up to super villain levels
Because the holocaust was bad in your business also a lie
I don't know in your
Things that like make sense. You forgot murray. How could you forget murray? Yeah, that's true
Oh
Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Are you saying that murray and the black woman at the end?
Oh and the nurse well the nurse lady's a maybe a jeb, of course
Nurse lady's a sheb
Sheb masturbate jeb fellas. No, no, no, let's not start
Can't go down
You can't go down this kind of internal sense
And if they don't then he's not a good character to base the movie around like if you're gonna write this thing where the thing
He wants us to be an entertainer or get public approval
It's not that hard to write a through line from that with apparently it is because you didn't fucking notice it
Yeah, like where were you?
Like did you just go to a bathroom break for 90 minutes? I what happened?
Him being a clown to him being a crazy murderer because murderers do get attention
You could make it this whole media metacommentary like he kills those as if there wasn't media metacommentary
Did you miss the long pan out showing all means had them talking about what happened?
Did she miss all the papers sensationalizing his killings?
did she miss the
Movie, did she miss the the report genuinely beginning to wonder if she actually watched the movie or if someone just told her about it
It's like homecoming all over again people just forget scenes exist in that film
They're just like this doesn't happen and you're like, well, what about the scene where that expressly happens and like oh well
The awkward silence like oh, it's weird
It's it's like with the joker the people who don't like it just it's like they didn't watch it
Guys on the subway in self-defense, but then he sees that that's the first thing he's done
That's gotten him positive attention and then he's like, well, maybe that's what I should do. No, not kill everybody
That's not at all. Why he does it. No, it doesn't kill everybody
specifically
He kills the people in the subway. He explicitly says because they were awful to mary because they awful
He kills his mom because his mom wronged him. He killed ronald or randal because randal. I i'm thinking ronald because ronald's a clown
He kills randal because randal was was a dick to him and betrayed him he let gary go
Because why do you think he let gary go?
He doesn't he doesn't she's describing this hypothetical alternate route and it's like you've turned him into a different character when you did this
This isn't him
He's not into killing everybody. That's not his point never was not his desire. It's like he can
explicitly say
I killed them because they were awful
Specifically to him
And you're like he's just going on killing people he's like no
Why why do you think he didn't just start indiscriminately shooting into the audience?
Or into the other people as they fled or or into the two people that were on the couch right next to him
Exactly. We didn't give a shit about them. They hadn't done anything to him
Sigh because I can't sigh anymore
They even have this shot
Where he like kills the talk show host and then it shows all the tv monitors picking up the story of what he just did
It's like omg. He's famous and fine. You know, it's some kind of heavy handed
Suddenly it's heavy handed when that's what she was requesting. This doesn't make any sense
Is it where how do you your your line?
It is a knife's edge between too casual and too heavy-handed for you. I guess
She's like why not have x y and z we had x which was too heavy-handed like oh
Oh
No, right also raw sang in the chat no rags
He killed them because they couldn't carry a tune to save their lives. That was a joke that he made about it. It wasn't real
That was a joke. I think I think he's making a joke. I think he would have shot a little faster
But I do enjoy that comment raw golden as ever media
But the rest of the movie wasn't about that at all. This is the kind of bitch to thank froydian for her food at night
Froydian part of arthur's motivation. So what's the point of that?
So anyway, that's not a thing like arthur notices the media coverage and he like smiles about it
But it doesn't drive any of his later actions. What are you?
Okay, so
so becoming like fully
Immersing himself into the role of the clown outfit
Despite loving because he loved all the clown shit going on that totally didn't inform
Anything right? I wasn't informed by his actions
Yeah
It was the idea of the clown is one of laughter and joy
Which is his dare. I say it his motivation that he explicitly states multiple times in the video
in the movie
The coverage absolutely has an influence on what he does preceding the events
He's literally hallucinating to himself about it
Remember his face when he sees the person with the clown mask after the subway event?
You mean uh, you know driving past him in the car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was pretty happy seeing that
yep
Get entire in because
You listen to enough of these takes and then you're like what?
What was the movie? I watched I can't remember which scenes which of the made-up scenes from the reviewer has been mentioning all the ones
I actually saw even were
Yeah, man
Each subsequent time he kills people it's for reasons totally unrelated to that
Usually just because they wronged him in some way only because she
because they wronged him in some way
Not usually only only because they wronged him in some way
explicitly
Oh my god, Jenny we doing
Stop it
And until the final kill he's not trying to get attention for it usually it happens
Somewhere in private and then he tries to hide that he's done it
That's what's frustrating about arthur's descent into madness is it doesn't really feel like a descent. It's more like a point a
Oh, it's clever. You're retarded poignant dancing in the middle
I can't show chat, but this is like my face after she did that you guys can see it
Oh
Yeah, that's
it's
You you clearly put more work into writing that than like your review
Like maybe I know being a movie reviewer like a casual webcam movie reviewer
That must be the easiest fucking job in the universe. Well, remember what chris tuckman said about those people
Including himself
Like you got to respect these films because what do we do? We just fucking work for like 90 minutes and that's it
It's like oh my god. I was the last break I took to
To pee and all that got a little snack and I was as I was having my snack
I was thinking because you know, we were talking about jenny and everything. I was thinking man
When you think about it reviewing games is way harder
Because let's just think about the time investment you could watch a 90 minute movie
four times
And it would be both cheaper and quicker than playing a video game
Yeah
And it's all and it's all going to play out the exact same way
You don't have to try out all the modes
You don't have to make sure that you play it enough to get a feel of everything
you don't have to make sure all the mechanics gel is like man like this is the
This is just the epitome of
lazy
unsubstantive
Heartless soulless movie review again. I reference the just thought you got all your star wars plushies in the background
I'm cool too. Everybody. I like the star wars. I'm gonna review a movie that doesn't fucking exist
Um
the just right debate where I
Try to walk into saying
When you're fucking lazy and you get all these things wrong
You're either incompetent or lying and I don't like it
Like I get it everyone can make mistakes. That's fine. I'm totally okay with that
But holy shit when you get to this level and it's all because you watch the movie come home sit recording the move on
When you're this influential, it's like man
Because they you know, a lot of people say that cinema sins is um, not only ruining criticism but uh
Hearing like filmmakers to a degree and influencing how films will be made going forward like by making them focus heavily on logical consistency
Which is amusing, but he didn't even do his job right for the most part
Oh
Well, I say who cares what I guess i'm getting at is just
accuracy
Is better than this
Um, this is like what movie is this?
Yeah, I give you because cinema sins actually has the the movie playing
So a lot of the times he has to play the quotes and then criticize them
So he's usually tied further to the actual content
But uh, yeah, you know jenny is one of the bigger
Tube, I mean if sort of approach if if cinema sins is right half the time he's better than jenny nickels
Well, yeah, what does she said in this video? That's um
There's been strong in terms of takes
That
The uh that the the immersion of the time period was really good that the sets and
Performance was good outside of doing physical things because that's not good acting but everything else was fine. I guess which
I'll give her a a tacit thumbs up on that statement. I don't really know what else to do with it
Yeah, it's but man
Hmm
That's where we're at, but yeah, let's I mean what is efap four right? That's what is efap four?
That's kind of why we got started the first episode. I wanted to look at how bad down with thrust was because he was kind of like
A pinnacle of what represents everything that's wrong with
review content on youtube
And and how it's like turned to sludge
Yeah, I still love how that began and we were like really trying to be aggressive toward him
Now we like worship him. He's a fucking god now
I saw that episode where he was like, I love pirates
He's like I I agree pirates are fucking cool
uh
I went to citrus channel typed in toad old fuck
Down would
How was he doing these days? What does he put out?
Five reasons why people are excited for world of warcraft classic. Oh, no, that was two months ago. Is he stopped?
No
No
Is it made of pot hold on we need to do we need to put the show on hold to find out is he
If he's made a post about this
Shit that's this name
Oh
He hasn't he hasn't left has he
Oh, let me check the patreon
I love it. One of the top comments on the newest video is our lord. Total blesses us with a heavenly video. Praise be
Patreon
Um, the last official tweet he made was in late august he's replied to people since then but
All right, oh, oh no his last patreon update patreon update was on september 11th. Oh, no
Oh
Uh, what a disaster. Oh, man. Did it mention anything about not making videos? I don't know. It reminds me of that tragedy
Oh, no
Okay, it says. Um, hi guys. How are you?
I've decided to take down the discord as there isn't as much activity on it these days
You guys can always reach me here or discord directly if you want to chat or have questions
As you can tell from the channel page i've been taking a break from video making i'll be back
Shortly with some new styles of videos once i'm ready
Thanks for your support means a lot to me
signed tone
I'll be ready tonaled guys. We're ready. Okay go to at downward thrust on twitter
and just
Tweet him saying he loved him in one and back can't wait for the next video super ready for the next
Do the same thing with his thrust?
Ready for your next thrust daddy. Well, I don't know if you say that but
Yeah, I think that might scare him off
We want to be careful. I tend to put a tweet but I was like, I better. No, I don't want to yeah say
You know is like hey just make just checking in making sure you're doing all right
I i'm gonna follow him and i'm gonna tweet at him right now
I gotta
Fucking do it
Please tonal don't
Okay, don't tone. I love your videos
they've
Genuinely made my life happier
I hope you come back soon heart
And I should do it send it send him some love do it on twitter do it on
Patreon if you're a patron of him
Do it on his latest video
Please I have now retweeted that tweet. Please do i'm going to paste it into
um
The chat guys. He is one of the greatest creators we've ever covered
Con I don't like the idea that he's gonna be gone. We need him back and
And to for those in chat asking
No, sadly
I never got my monthly thrust. I never got a monthly thrust from tonal bloke. Is there a bigger tragedy than that?
I don't think so. Oh, yeah
I know that's
Worse than 9 11. We'll have to go look at old videos if you want to cover him again. That's not fair
I'm thinking of it. I'm actually subscribing to him. I need to know i've been subscribed for a long time
I'm a five dollar patron man
Every
instant every year I that means at the end of the year, I will have given him 60 bucks
He's a fucking legend
What hey that is that is a charitable that is a charitable donation for taxes
All right. I'm considering donating. I just want I want him to make more things
I want him to be around and so then when he said when mario falls off the things like he's fucking dead
He's fucking dead
Next time next time you cover a video
From him you need to tell me
Of course so that so that I can be here because I was I gotta be honest. I was
kind of like
When I was covering him, I was like
He was the total proto efap
Was he yeah, he he
He was efap before he was he was like tone loke guys. He's subject zero
There are pillars of efap and he is one of them. So is patrick williams. It's all built on. Yeah, man
He was the one who kind of he was the one he's he's subject zero
Like if he leaves like who knows who's imagine patrick williams left before giving us more awful takes that'd be horrible
Yeah, no, that would actually be the best thing ever tonaled stay patrick. You can leave
Okay, yeah
Sorry, jenny, we keep getting distracted
You go ahead. What were you saying?
Reaction to different catalysts often feels arbitrary and not like it's a gradual progression at all
Like one bad thing will happen and he'll respond violently and then another equally bad thing will happen and he won't it's
What okay, so an equally bad thing will happen and then it won't he's
Let's just go through the movie because she's wrong
He's assaulted by several people when he has no weapons and he's he's a cheap shot right to his head
And he falls to the ground. So that opening abuse scene. It's like yeah, there wasn't much he was going to be able to do
Yeah ambushed hit by the sign instantly then if we fast forward to the next time he's abused it's on the subway
He has a pistol at that point and he's lost his job. Everything's going terribly. It makes sense that he is now in a position
Desperation and he has emotionally compromised more so than ever at this point
Then when's the next time he takes abuse from there?
I'm, sorry, which scene were we so after he shoots the guys on the subway. When's the next time the author takes physical abuse from people
Chronologic physical abuse. Um, I don't think they're I mean
Uh, he gets tackled at the studio after he shoots murray. Yeah
He's not really the one getting abused unless you count him like
Kind of getting right over my car and how the progression works there. Just listen to what she said again point a point b
And poignant dancing in the middle
The joker would like that his reaction to different catalysts often feels arbitrary and not like it's a gradual progression at all
Like one bad thing will happen and he'll respond violently and then another equally bad thing will happen and he won't it's
Okay, so let's start at the the biggest thing that he does is he kills the three people on the subway because they were attacking him
Beating him up. So that is that is the point that he will have if she's correct
Then he will return to that point for a lesser slight
so
Um
He kills oh he is punched by thomas wayne, but I think it's fair to assume
That he wasn't gonna fucking
Assault thomas wayne after that he's on the floor. Anyways, by the time he gets to him thomas wayne would be within
Yeah out and thomas wayne's a bigger guy and I don't know
Maybe there was pretty pragmatic reason why he didn't try to fit to assume
Emotionally you've just been punched by the guy you can you're pretty sure is your dad after being revealed that you're adopted by your mother
Yeah, um, he's he's dealing with some stuff
Let me see. Um, so where?
Um, i'm trying to think where
Is his how does he inconsistently respond to violence or wrongness done to him?
Well, this is where i'm at right now
She's saying that like now sometimes he's violent sometimes he's not i'm just thinking like what do you mean way when it's kind of
Yeah, and also he has to have the capability
Right to do it like in the subway. He had the capability
Element of surprise with the gun they attacked him first. He had the ability to exercise lethal force
So in comparisons that are made to that scene he has to be justified in doing it in his perspective certainly
But also he has to have the means to do it
and I
I don't know
I I don't like if I was trying if she was on my team in like a debate and she had said that
And she was like, come on rags. You back me up. I'd be like, okay. Um, uh
Uh, you know, um, i'm legitimately trying to think here
So
Yeah, no, no, no there's gotta be there's gotta be something right? Um
Like jenny's not like stupid. I mean surely there's something no she's not she's just delusional. Come on now. All right, so
It's not that she's stupid
His mom had abused him and allowed abuse to come to him which caused psychological damage for the
Life potentially and she used him as you know
It's a tool and he killed her for that which is consistent with what he's been doing
He kills ronald mcdonald when he comes to the apartment
Because you know, he set him up. He got him in trouble. He's indirectly and directly caused for a lot of suffering that he has
um
I
Guess all we've got left is letting her go on see if she has any kind of detail maybe yeah
Frustrating to even try to articulate this because there's such an easy fallback for anyone trying to defend this movie against any criticism
They can just be like he's not supposed to make sense. No, it's not what we said
He definitely does make sense
Supposed to me we're not fucking talking about godzilla
I mean making sense and being justified and justifying things to yourself. Those are those are different things
I love how she can't even articulate the issue and she's already anticipated
The people will disagree for arbitrary reasons when it's not arbitrary at all
Like come on jenny
I mean if anything the joker is like a lawful evil character in this movie
He's not just indiscriminately killing things or doing evil without a purpose or a function
You know there there is a system to what he's doing. He's evaluating, you know
Who lives and dies and he can give a reason why he killed everyone that he did
um
I assume that would be lawful evil back me up chat. I'm not big onto the alignment thing. Uh, let me know if that's right or not
but I don't
Yeah, I don't know. It just seems like
Everything in the film makes sense. It all makes sense. It all fits together
We just argued with progression and she's like you're just gonna argue. It doesn't make sense. So like no
No, it does. I guess now it's on you to argue how it doesn't make sense. Someone's saying chaotic good
To a degree. Yes
Someone's saying lawful jeb. I agree
Hey, i'll chill. I'm a lesser jeb chaotic. Jeb is he's lawful. He is lawful evil, but he he's
Lawful good. That's the thing
Laugh chaotic neutral. He's the joker
He's crazy and it's like well, yeah, but in a character study movie
It's only interesting if you're willing to actually study the character. We did what did you do?
You know what this is so frustrating she is so convinced by the angle she's going from that she's arguing against somebody that like agrees
That those issues exist but the justification is that he's crazy
She's like taking it like it's like that is the case
Has she seen anyone say this?
Like come on
You know like how we we would we would we would slap back at godzilla
We were actually like referencing several comments. We were being given and tweets
It wasn't just invented out of thin air because we don't like people who like godzilla or something like they didn't come out of nowhere
But she's she's just doing this thing. She's like everyone's gonna say she's crazy. You're like, are you are you okay?
like what
If you just articulate your points a little bit better that won't need to happen now will it
Yeah, okay. I'm gonna turn off my she says that the joker was responding inconsistently
Just give me two examples and tell me how they come there can't be an argument for progression
Well, give me several examples. That would be pretty great. It's all we try to do
Because all we have to get is some girl just let's just hire a girl from a clown agency put her on a bed
Get a get a video recording to get a big old porg in the background with a jeb inside it
And then have her do the exact same thing. She's doing just in reverse
It was amazingly consistent
Everything was and there's gonna be people out there be like oh, it's not consistent because he's supposed to be crazy
And well, yeah, you can say that but this is a character study. And so we have to understand him. Oh, look at that
You know, if you don't have any references, what the hell are you just talking past each other?
I don't know people love this content still so they're learning something from it
I don't want to leave the room you went to do something. No. No, I meant to watch together. Oh
I don't know because his name is not green anymore. It hasn't been green for a while though. So I I think it's just a glitch
Battery just hasn't been watching the video and he's just responding to what we responded to
The alien versus jeb ata requiem batman the killing jeb jeb jellien jeb fiction
We're doing this again. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no
Kind of emotional core or sense to what they're doing
If you want to design a character who just kind of does stuff that doesn't make sense
That's fine, but not if they're the focal point of a character. Why is that fine?
I'm glad I why is it that i'm happy movie reviewers?
Be the opposite
I was saying I shouldn't be glad that movie reviewers aren't making movies
I should want movie reviewers to make movies. I see what you mean, right?
And there's like I wouldn't ever like if like, would you let jenna jenny nicolson make the next joker movie?
I'm like, fuck no keep her far away from this film. I want it to be good
Imagine everyone said she's like it's okay to have a character that just does stuff
But he can't be the focal point and you're looking at her like what the fuck are you go away?
She's like, okay
Character study because then you just don't have that much of a movie this motivation issue for me really came to a head
He literally says
multiple times
I want to pay make people laugh. I want to make people smile. I want to bring joy to the world
I just
This is he explicitly says this multiple times. That's what he wants and you're like, I just don't know his motivation
like I
I don't know. I just what more do you want? What more do you want jenny? What what what is it that you would like?
For the the film to do
What what would you like it to present to you to answer these questions that you have?
Which I feel like is the scene that everybody's going to be talking about
I'm already irritated by this scene because suddenly arthur is like cool and confident and doesn't know he's definitely nervous
You can see it on his performance
And uh, I love that scene so much the fact that I know we've talked about this before but just
He's gearing himself up to kill himself
And he can't do it because he keeps getting interrupted or told not to do
The joke or they're all still trying to laugh at him and she's like oh the tension
The clock is ticking
this person
and uh
The committal and it's I don't know it's good shit and I and and and
Let's hear why it doesn't work
Really display his nervous laughter tick for much of it and sure that's supposed to convey that he's transformed or whatever
But an earlier scene goes out of its way to imply that arthur
Isn't really mentally ill in like a brain chemistry kind of sense and all of his psychological problems are
Implied to be strongly linked to this head trauma. He received as a child when he was all right
so
All right, jenny. We're gonna do uh, we're gonna play uh
play play a
Game here. All right, so
What is inside if you have head trauma?
Right, what is inside of your head?
Go and ask you that question. It's a skull skull skull skull. Yeah. All right. Good. Yeah, your skull is in your head
Yeah, what is what is that skull protecting? What's that? What's that? Why is that skull shaped the way it is?
Wheel inside the skull well, jenny jenny here's got a hamster wheel in her skull
Except the hamster died quite a while ago. You're if you experience head trauma
Right you you're gonna have uh, you're gonna you have a brain in there, right?
so people can experience brain issues and
People can get fucked up in the head if they experience head trauma repeatedly
I didn't follow that doesn't make sense to me. I'm sorry. It all right. Well, you gotta start over from the beginning
Let's go back. What is inside of a head? Wait, you said something about a skull too. What is that again?
I know I said it too, but I don't really know
What about I I guess I'll I guess i'll just skip to the end
Just so that the slowest can chipster, you know catch up is just that if you have
God, what if it what what if there's just a little jeb bush running on a wheel inside of her head and he like broke his leg
And he's just spinning along with
Someone needs to have like a side view of jenny nicholson and then in the next panel
You have like a zoom in on her head
Except you can see inside and it says jeb bush jogging in his suit and everything just like pantsing thing. Please clap
Oh
Bail when like I never like the the idea that it's a criticism of the movie
That it isn't quite consistent that he has mental issues due to his repeated head trauma
i'm like
Maybe that's not what she I maybe well
Let's go again. I know it's tough guys, but let's go again
Isn't really mentally ill in like a brain chemistry kind of sense and all what else is there?
Like no, like actually what else is there in a foot chemistry kind of way? It's like what?
In an anal cavity kind of way you're a purely physical being
What do you think mental illness is? It's when she not understand what mental means
How did she make this video? How did she upload this?
Does she not think does she think that there's a difference between?
She doesn't have a mental illness in the mental illness kind of what like she like in a brain chemistry sense
It's like what do you think your emotions are?
Jesus come from the heart
Suddenly arthur is like cool and confident and doesn't really display
Said the amount of psychic damage she can inflict
Pick for much of it and sure that's supposed to convey that he's transformed or whatever
But an earlier scene goes out of its way to imply that arthur
Isn't really mentally ill in like a brain chemistry kind of sense and all of his psychological problems are these weird
Weird jump cuts. Yeah, I know these bafflingly strange jump cuts are very strange
Like you can't say a couple words in a take
Just do the sentence. It's a sentence some of these. I think she's just cutting out
Like breaths, I guess
May I know some people do it where like like I know when i've covered riley
Riley will leave more space in between the words of the sentence than in between each sentence
And that takes a lot of minute
Editing to do for every sentence and it's super annoying and it's extremely
It's frustrating to listen to because people don't speak like that
I don't know why she's making these weird jump cuts
And then again, that's all secondary to the point of what do you think mental illness is also
What scene are you referring to? Also, how did you edit this video?
And not realize how often you contradict yourself
Am I if yeah, that's a good question for sure I mean
I I would be curious to know what scene she's referring to that implies
That his mental illness isn't mental illness in a brain chemistry sense. It's like as opposed to what other sense?
Just like sheer physical
trauma
Because he definitely we we know that happens. He was beaten as a child pretty bad
Add to the radiator he was he was raped in the mouth
That's a reference that's a reference kiddos. That's a deep reference. I don't even know how many people
Audience will understand that reference. I'm sure a lot of people know about the rapist but uh,
Implied to be strongly linked to this head trauma
He received as a child when he was abused by his mother's abusive boyfriend
Which by the way is framed as his mother's fault. So if this is she enabled it to happen
In a in a sense. Yeah, she is responsible because she allowed it to happen and do anything
It's awesome. She also wasn't quite all there herself
She was exactly the most friendly to um to him when she's like she's like you can't pursue your dream because you're not funny
yeah
and
She's not very supportive of him in that sense, you know
This thing is an interesting relationship
Yeah, she
Very definitely not a healthy one
A result of some kind of physical lesion in his brain
I don't understand how some kind of aha moment where he decides to be a murderer is going to suddenly cure
His inability to present as normal in social settings
Why do you think it's just like this or that? There are plenty of people who are autistic or who have other social, you know
impairments or
What or other conditions where they can present perfectly normally in most most uh in most social scenarios
I'm very like he's clearly he's capable enough to hold down a job and to make a paycheck
I'm very concerned that she sees what he did in the talk show as him like being normal
I guess maybe she doesn't realize that after all of this time
Like this is the end result of all the things that's happened to him. He wasn't like this
as shown by the scenes of the film
He's fucking not normal, um at the end by any stretch of what people would probably define as normal
mentally fully healthy
But just to clarify when he was abused by his mother's abusive boyfriend
Which by the way is framed as his mother's fault
So if this is all the result of some kind of physical lesion in his brain
I don't understand how some kind of aha moment where he decides to be a murderer is going to suddenly cure
His inability to he's also stopped taking his pills his seven different medications
Yes, he doesn't get his medicine on him
He even says that he feels better without the medicine. He feels
More real he feels better. He feels healed when he isn't taking his medicine
Gary and randall even like look at him weird when he says like yeah, i'm not taking my meds anymore. I feel great and they're like, oh
Yeah, that's odd. I mean that's if somebody told you that you would feel unusual too
And then the murray show is like right after that
It's just so weird and also tell me how mental illness is supposed to work jenny
To present as normal in social settings
But anyway, this scene is where arthur is basically saying his thesis to the audience and it's a mess
It's all over the tell you better justify that claim. Yeah
The place right out of the gate arthur. It's very heavy-handed
He comes out and sits on the couch and tells an inappropriate joke
It's like a mean-spirited knock-knock joke about someone's son dying in a drunk driving accident and they've written in this pearl clutching
Okay. All right. All right. So
So a moment ago you were saying that it was bad that he presented himself as most mostly
socially normal in many situations
And that was like a problem a contention you had and now you've just like almost back to back
Completely flipped and now when it's the other way it's heavy-handed. He told it. Well, yeah, this is the thing she's saying
How is he so socially competent? It's like he told a joke that she's also made a mistake here
I already see where she's going with this. She's got the pearl clutching old woman criticism
I've got like three things to say at once. This is difficult to choose
um first of all the whole audience is upset you remember they're like
And then and then even murray is like, you know, that's a
That kind of he says that's not uh, the kind of joke we do on this show
Yeah, it's not just a pill clutching old woman. That's upset
Secondly, I i'm going to reference uh, monty python and the holy grail. Uh, I believe it was the holy grail
It could have been um
Life of brian as well, but I think it was life of brian actually
But they they got in a lot of trouble on talk show they would bring them on a talk show
And they would be like another person being like your comedy's disgusting and it like that was that was life of brian
For the most part because it had to deal with christianity sort of
Well, not specific people exist. They do it. Um, especially when murray's intention was to like
He's a laughing stock this guy
And so like having someone who doesn't even is a very
Prude person when it comes to comedy it makes enough sense
But also the fact that yeah, these people exist. I don't know
She's saying like it's a convenience that that person is there
What do you think us youtubers have to deal with all the time people clutching their pearls at our offensive humor?
And then just on top of that, it's just like I thought he was supposed to be non inept now
But apparently he's still not able to detect social cues and you know
It's like a complete strikeout jenny try again
Joke, it's like a mean-spirited knock-knock joke about someone's son dying in a drunk driving accident
And they've written in this pearl clutching old lady character to sit next to arthur and it's so heavy-handed
She goes you can't joke about that
Is she unaware of how many times that is said today?
You cannot joke about x like what do you think fucking contour points got her panties in a wad because of dave shapelle
It happens to this day
Especially when you go to back then television
Absolutely. Yeah, this is just throughout time
The line gets pushed all the time of it's like oh, that's the thing you can't make a joke about and it's like, oh can't we
It's like it's heavy-handed at this point i'm like define heavy-handed, please
What when you say heavy-handed?
What are you referring to exactly a person saying you can't joke about x that's heavy-handed because that's like on what level
On what level of thematic subjective?
Metanarrative do you have to be on before it isn't heavy-handed anymore?
Like he's on a talk show
He told he's he's a guy who wants to be funny who doesn't really understand humor
Tells a joke that is offensive that people don't like it's so straightforward to me
Mean offensive thing to tell jokes about and this was the worst moment. Yeah, I mean it wasn't appropriate. It was offensive
That wasn't appropriate
Especially for that what apparently especially that show like what you think they're do you think they just let people on say whatever they want?
like there's there's an
Before had they're like don't do x y and z like they give him rules and then as he's saying this
Shit, the producer's like get him off get him off
FCC is 1934. Yeah, the fcc existed there are inner
There are broadcasting standards that one did adhere to and when the further back you go for the most part the more stringent they are
A
Viewing experience this was the moment. I had my own arthur styled illusion in which tod phillips was sitting next to me
And like nudging me with his elbow and being like do you understand?
See writer director tod phillips has been going on every interview because it's definitely not subtle when yoda said
failure the greatest teacher is
That's not heavy-handed
They literally told you what the theme of the movie is
Like they don't grab you in your seat and hit you on the head with a hammer until you got it
And people call it genius
This film has a perfectly reasonable set of pieces of dialogue in a setting
That it would be delivered feasibly by this character and these are how this is how the audience would react
And you couldn't find a joke distasteful it's totally okay
There's nothing wrong with saying that you you're made uncomfortable by a joke
It's not the point
The fact is that like yeah tod phillips has said publicly that he can't he doesn't want to make comedy movies anymore
Because there's just too many limitations you'll get you'll get booed out by the quote unquote woke crowd
I think is what words he used
And um, I don't like
People like jenny to not like joker
Like that's enough. That's the thing that kind of that kind of attitude is so
Ever present in these kind of reviewers, especially on this side of youtube that
But she's not being very objective
Yeah, a director saying that kind of thing in an interview is enough to get these people to be like, how can we make this movie?
bad
After all we how many times like I was saying to them before we started and as I told mauler yesterday when we were talking about critical
drinker
Not liking a movie is the criteria for you being a nazi now
Yeah
These are the people who perpetuate that thing
You know what I just noticed
She has a plush of the new droid right over her right shoulder from episode nine. Oh, yeah. Wow
Oh, no, you've already have the fucking merchandise for the movie and it hasn't come out yet. Dude. She's she's fully in she loves the lj
Wait to see the sequel I imagine I bet it'll be great. I hope to god. That's not spiro
I bet her i'll put 10 bucks on she loves it
You for the last several months and like complaining about how
He can't make another hangover ask a movie because people are too easily offended by his jokes these this is the thing that's true
Scripts get rejected because they're inappropriate
Funnily enough chris duckman actually commented on this recently. He said that uh,
His scripts are often declined unless he puts in social commentary
um
There's a thing that happens comedians are constantly getting articles written about them that say this kid this person can't do
This person can't do that count dankula had his documentary come out. That's exactly what they did there
You can't you can't be here because your jokes like these people just act like that's not a thing
It's insane. It boggles the mind what universe these people live in where they're just like, no, no
No, they just they stick their head in the sand they cover their eyes and say no, no, this stuff doesn't happen
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, but no not literally everybody gets canceled. You guys are being really crazy
It's insane. Thank you. It has a documentary. Yeah, vbc did one. It's good shit. Well, it was entertaining. Yes
Yeah, it certainly was he so he was involved. It wasn't like some piece on him or anything
Well, it was well
It's it's watch dankula's video on the documentary that also he so he didn't make it
No, no. Yeah, it was like a bbc thing or a channel whatever thing, but he also did a video about it
And it's pretty darn good
um, but I also think it's interesting that I went into my little dare I say diatribe about these people and
Sure enough. Here she is about to go into exactly that and her view
Are okay. Sure thing. I ain't saying I can see into the future. I'm just saying I just noticed pattern
I mean how closely are spiders related to dogs? I don't know. I'm just I don't know. I don't know
We that's think dogs can sense the nature of people, you know, like in all the movies, you know, they know when things aren't quite right
Days as if there aren't a million movies getting made every day that are equally as trashy as his hangover movies and the thing
Yeah, this isn't every movie. This is a mainstream movie. This is
something that you have to get several people to sign off on all of dc's industry and
Goal, they have to be like, yeah, this is okay
And we're talking about like one of the most iconic villains in superhero history. So
How do I want her to explain the red pill?
This isn't some movie the guy made in his like backyard with a bunch of friends like an indie movie or something
goes through a shit ton of checks and
The approvals and stuff like just to say like there's a movie out there that exists that's anti-sjw
It's like someone else can't even mention bill. It's like I don't know
I don't know how many times this can happen and these people until these people say yo, you know what?
Yeah, maybe some people are a little bit too a little bit too trigger happy on this cancel culture stuff
maybe we should stop banning movies from theaters and banning comedians from
campuses and banning presenters from stages and even fucking obamas talking about
Yeah, even yeah, we're at the point where obama is fucking saying y'all need to chill
Oh
There isn't a huge thriving audience for them. I'm sorry. I have no strong feelings about the hangover
I haven't seen any of them. They might be funny. They probably are right. You have no strong feelings on the hangover
You haven't seen them
She said they're probably not funny
Okay, how could he said they're probably he she said they're probably funny. They made a lot of money
Well, okay, wait, wait, let me hear that again. I could have
And that there isn't a huge thriving audience for them. I'm sorry. I have no strong feelings about the hangover
I haven't seen any of them. They might be funny. They probably are they made a lot
Oh, I thought she said probably aren't not uh, yeah, they they probably are they made a lot of money of money
That's a weird metric for funny
Like I don't know. That's not one I would follow. Yeah
I look like Bilbo Baggins
No, you don't know you don't like any you don't like anything like don't smidge the good narrative Bilbo Baggins
Like in her mind, I wonder what feature that she had I guess she's like i've got two eyes just
It's it's gotta be the red coat
That must be it. May
Maybe maybe she's a small person. I feel like a hugging Bilbo away from here like hey
Stay away from you. Yeah, how dare you you don't deserve fucking see how
Unbelievably ironic is it that she would reference one of the deepest memes of this show?
Like uh
The subreddit's gonna be blown up about this
It's just when I hear a comedian say nobody likes my jokes because they're offended my brain just filters that so all I hear
Is nobody likes my jokes, which is a good warning to receive from a comedian. I already thought it was
Yeah, I want I want you and contra points to have a discussion about this topic and settle your differences as to which one of you's
Correct. I'd also like to say if a comedian tells me no one likes my jokes because they're too edgy or something
I'd be like, all right. Let's hear them
I'm curious if this doesn't really tell me much i'm like, she's right. She filters things. She certainly's got a filter
As in like she ignores the reality of what's happened. Oh, sure. Yeah
Like why do you think the ones why do you think the ones that get through are so popular what's the other ones that got through?
Someone said, oh, well, I'm such a nerd. I know who Bilbo Baggins is ooh
Likes my jokes because they're offended my brain just filters that so all I hear is
Nobody likes my jokes, which is a good one
No, she means like it enters the wheel and Jeb will either allow it to pass through the wheel or you'll pick it up and
Put it in his pocket. Yeah as Jeb is running. He's reading the paper
And he either files it to the yes or the no. Yeah, he filters her brain. He's a very generous Jeb
He's a running Jeb. It's great
But he puts it right in the consume product folder the shape of Jeb
The shape of Jeb
received from a comedian
I already thought it was weird that he was complaining about that so much because like what does that have to do with?
Joker the film why why are you talking about it stupid idiots fucking hell?
It's like what I don't know what this has to do with then. Why are you talking about it?
Wait anything you're proving him, right?
What was your question? Why is he talking about that in relation to joke? Yeah
He's like, why is he talking about that in relation to the Joker is like this is your Joker review and you're talking about it
That's true. But the reason was the people were curious why he went to drama from comedy
That was why
There's context for it
Nobody likes my jokes, which is a good warning to receive from a comedian. Did he say did he say and first off?
I doubt he said nobody likes my jokes
Yeah, I doubt that too. Yeah, I I'm not gonna take you at your word because you're changing gonna press x on that one
Yeah, definitely mashing that x button
Gonna reload my doubt
Heard that he was complaining about that so much because like what does that have to do with joker the film that he's I mean
Yeah, maybe you could fucking read the article. I was gonna say it's pretty
Korea to now be
Recognized as the guy who made joker would be like plenty of people are going to be interested in like where did you come from?
What did you do previously? It's like oh he made the hangover movies
Yeah, why didn't I it's a bizarre. I know a little
I know google is like dumb and everything
But if it was my video before I sat my ass on the bed and worked really hard on this extremely intellectual commentary on the joker
I would have been like I wonder what the context is of him saying that but just did a quick little google search and then
Slapped enter and there's your answer. Well, that's too much work too much work
What is effort
Promoting and the answer is it has nothing to do with the joker
There's nothing at all to do with that. Arthur's comedy career is not failing because his jokes are too
Why the fuck do you think it should be is that why she's tying this together that how
So now she's concluding that the movie needed to represent that message because he's talking about it in interviews
As opposed to the reason he was actually mentioning in interviews. That is fascinating
I I don't we can see how the lights got there how they connected in her brain how jeb rolled that wheel
Can I fucking call him at this point jesus
Oh wow, I can oh I can spot that shit a mile away printing on that wheel right now
He's just he's getting sweaty. He's just like
We've nailed it we've connected all the dots
He's failing because he has brain damage a few clips we see of his comedy performances
He's bombing because he has an uncontrollable laughter tick that happens when he's nervous. His jokes aren't inappropriate
They're like you just highlighted. What are the ones that was inappropriate? Yeah
Hold on. It's it's not when he's nervous either. That's my time
The disease happened like it will happen regardless of whatever you're feeling
Yeah, did people not look this stuff up? No, she didn't she didn't give a fuck
She spent more time on her stupid fucking makeup
After she got home after maybe watching this movie sat down on her bed arranged her plushies and that was her research
I mean, I I can't remember what exactly is said on the
But I know that when I looked up what is it pseudo bullbar?
I can't remember exactly how it's pronounced but the the mental illness that he has
It happens regardless of how he's feeling. I think the card he gave the woman on the train
Uh, they mentioned being uncontrollable, right?
Yeah, I can't remember off the top of my head what exactly the card said, but it happens regardless of how you're feeling
It's not just a nervous tick. Let me see if I can see the picture of it. Um, whatever
Oh, we got the scene here. Is there a screenshot of the card?
Um
Uh, I guess the scene is here. Let me I could probably find it in just a second. Um,
Pseudo bullbar effect. Okay, sounds right
Yeah, um a harsh indictment of neoliberalism in gangst
Um, let's see joker, uh
Uh joker 2019 card on bus automatically fills out
Um, what did joker's card say?
Let me see I I want to
Can you show me what the fucking card says?
I'm scrolling scrolling scrolling
Now I can carry on while I
Look to this. I am doing another thing at the same time. We're doing things
Okay, um
Uh for it it reads forgive my laughter
I have a condition more on back and she turns the card over and it says it's a medical condition causing sudden frequent
Uncontrollable laughter that doesn't match how you feel
It can happen in people with a brain injury or certain neurological conditions. There we go. It doesn't match how you feel
Doesn't match how you feel
Which means it can be nervousness. It can be sadness. It can be fear all that stuff
Um, yeah, here's a walking jab
Because he has an uncontrollable laughter tick that happens when he's nervous his jokes aren't inappropriate
They're like baby joke book jokes
They're almost except for the inappropriate joke that you said that he did was heavy-handed. You said I
It's it went from they're not inappropriate. So they're inappropriate and heavy-handed. Which one is it? Which one? Yeah
In in my favorite baby joke books. It says I just hope my death makes more sense than my life
I mean fascinating, honestly, it's amazing
Bob couldn't have been he couldn't have said it stupider himself. I'm kind of at the point where actually he probably could have
with this video
Oh, I don't know how y'all feel but i'm starting to get to that point
Wasn't at that point like two hours. Yeah, just
We're we're almost 20 minutes in we still have 14 minutes to go. Um
I gotta get a drink. Anyway, so i'll be right back real quick. All right
I
Earnest and childish they are but no
They have the old lady say that and then in his speech arthur is even like you decide what's right and wrong
Just like you decide what's funny and what's not and it's like, uh
Having this weird
You can't joke about that grandmother sitting next to arthur on the talk show and having that be the thing that kicks off this
Confrontation is just the it's not just that it's all of it
The whole set of why did you keep looking at this like no one else reacted to the joke
It was just the pale cluttering old lady that's all it was
The moment that writer director todd phillips comes out of the screen like a 3d movie to complain to you about his career
The whole speech is just you just said that it has nothing in the film to do with it
Um
Like I said, I baffled that she managed to edit this video
And at the same time doesn't understand how much she's contradicting herself
This is insanity
Remember how you said you like this kill you regret it now
amen
people can
Make more than like it's not like it has to be terrible in fairness
I mean felt the same way about just right he like one of my face
Some point and then the last jedi happened
And then I realized he's not really a good you. Well, he's a good youtuber when he wants to use his brain
Which isn't often anymore
Just a hot mess you can't have it both ways
You can't make a movie about a mentally ill man's tragic descent into further madness
And then also have an ending where he gives a big coherent speech where he's a mouthpiece for you
The writer director about how nobody wanted a fourth hangover movie and
What are you talking about
She's just pulling this out of her ass
You've materialized this from nothing like
He made a comment in an interview based on questions about why he's moved his career around
And you've concluded
That the final speech in the film is supposed to be representative of him being frustrated that he couldn't make another hangover movie
and even if that was
in part projection of
His frustration at the industry
What does it matter? It's fine as long as it matches the narrative and it does it's still built up throughout the film
Just tiring
Then in this very same scene where you have the joker parodying the exact thoughts and feelings of the director as expressed every interview
Every interview you also have a line where he says so what do you get when you cross a mentally ill?
I gotta wait because it's like super laggy for me, I guess
Because I and in fact, let me see if I can even pause it or play it
Someone in the chat said cancel women here. Let me reload
For 20 33
But while that loads I I tried to stop it to make the point
that
She's gone from not even knowing the context of that quote at all to saying that's in every joker interview. He does
Bailin has created her level of knowledge about this quote is interesting. What meme is it?
It is a wholesome meme
The islay of man
Taking away my pizza
Oh, it's an ori toy. There's a there's an ori toy. Is that a what is what's that ball that gun?
Is that the uh plant here
Yes, you'll get I imagine the plan
Oh, I love the e-family right there, yeah, that's that's uh, that is that's a fucking wholesome ass meme
That is a very that's a that is a very wholesome meme the glasses are even
Making sure to protect the evidence of rags his eyes looking in different directions
Excellent, I do not have a tism this video is going to give me a tism though
Oh my goodness, I like this drawing a lot. I like this drawing. This is the first not fat me drawing
All right, i'm at 20 32
Oh, right. Yeah, there's a video, right?
All right. I I I love how rag does portrayed as an actual thought i'm an actual
I don't know why that would be the proper way to maybe like it's inside my balls. This is i'm a dog, right?
Do I have like a human?
Sona like a person person persona rags is down with the syndrome
Down
Syndrome of it down
All right
Geniled here we go
You also have a line where he says what do you get when you cross a mentally ill loner?
With a society that ignores him and treats him like trash
You get what you deserve and then he shoots the talk show host in the head and it's like well
Does the writer director also believe this for christ's sake? What for christ's sake?
Yes, yes, he Todd phillips
Ted is it ted or tod?
Ted tod Ted
Jeb in the morning phillips double t in the p
He definitely is absolutely down with the murder of people who don't like his comedy. It's it's
He clearly has an issue with Robert DeNiro
clearly hates
Robert DeNiro
I don't know if you guys know this is a complete non-sequit but
apparently
Robert DeNiro did not get along or Joaquin Phoenix didn't get along with Robert DeNiro that at all
Really? I wonder why apparently there's a bunch of like hostility between them. Really?
Huh, that wasn't a non-sequitur that was almost there
There was some right. I I just thought it was kind of standard. That was on topic. Yep. That was absolutely on topic
Super topical
Yeah, like there's no reason for us to argue against this really I just
That's something she said in a video
All right
With a society that ignores him and treats him like trash
You get what you deserve and then he shoots the talk show host in the head and it's like well
Does the writer director also believe this?
Is this yeah, he supports murder. Is it yeah in support of the joker shooting?
Okay, she's definitely just being deliberately up to so I refuse to believe she's actually retarded and let's believe this
There's no way like she's got to be doing something because no like this is just intellectual dishonesty
This isn't you're stupid. I mean you are stupid
What can you expect from someone with a jab inside their head running a mouse wheel?
Like I think that that makes sense now
This is the point that the jab collapsed his foot got stuck in the hamster wheel and he was like he's going around and around
a couple times before it
Said he settles at the bottom and that's his head keeps banging against all the rungs and it's just turning into a bloody pulpy mess
I have I've just
What are you doing with you don't don't project that onto someone that's just ridiculous
You know when when luke nearly killed his innocent nephew in his sleep was ryan jones trying to say that that's something we should do
Is he trying to say that we should we should do that?
I don't know. Well, I think jj abrams wants us to blow up not only one planet, but all of the planets just
explode them all end it media media meteorite 2020 asteroid 2020
Wait, was ryan jones saying slaves are good?
Oh my goodness
Oh, wow
Oh, ryan johnson thinks animals are more important than humans
Wait, and wait chenny has some mitch from tlj. Does she think slave was good?
Does she support him supporting that or the cooking of porgs?
That is an animal abuse
Look at evil bb8 does she support
The empire does she support evil?
In general just evilness
I don't think we can oh my goodness. This is are we supporting him watching the video? Oh, no
Oh, I can't believe that we gave her a platform
Hold on if she believes that she looks like billbo does that mean that she's appropriating hobbit culture?
Yeah, and she supports stealing jewelry
What like a dragon
Oh
Well, we don't we don't know if she stole the the ring yet, okay
But she's just appropriate. She probably has a fake ring just to fit in
I don't have a ring
No, well i'm available ladies
And because
contextually
It kind of seems that way. So yeah to a crazy person. Sure
This is why the film is going over her head. She's like too crazy to get it
She's lost her fucking mind. So yeah, that's the thing. It's so simple
It's so simple and they're like she's like there must be a deeper theme. There must be deeper theme
But maybe maybe the maybe the
But yeah, that kind of matches up right good fellas like we saw movie bob give up
He was just like nah, there is no theme. There's nothing in this
Here is is i'm so desperate to find what it turns out. Todd phillips supports mid
Addicted to themes
We just said you're like, I don't know. It's just like be kind to your fellow man. They're like, no that can't be it
No, no, no, that's it. I also just don't like that line. I think it's messy and I will explain
I just think it feels clumsy and unrealistic. You didn't explain you said it's not explaining. You're just restating
I think your thought processes are clumsy and idiotic
one of the most frustrating things to listen to back before like a lot of
Any of my interactions or youtube style would be reviewers being like this scene does not work
You want to know why it is boring and it's boring because it's it just doesn't work. Well
It seriously feels wrong. You know what I mean? Like the whole thing does not come together. It is utterly
It's just complete. It's it's terrible
You know, like you didn't say anything throughout the whole you said nothing
I just love the idea that you'd be like i'm going to explain myself and then you do that
You're like this not anything but it's not an explanation. You haven't you haven't explained it again. You just said it again
Just don't like that line. I think it's messy and I will explain
I just think it feels clumsy and unrealistic for a mentally ill movie character
To outright state that they are mentally ill in order to give some kind of movie thesis statement. I also think it's weird
what
This is the problem that I see with a lot of people like
Reviewing this movie like the conflation between mental illness and violence
Like it's just not there. You have to pull
Shit completely out of your ass and something I completely forgot to mention that uh southpaw
uh, uh reminded me of after I uploaded my video on it, um
when arthur goes to
Arkham hospital and he talks to the guy who works with the files. He asks, um something to the effect of
What is uh, how does how do people get in here?
And he gives him a few reasons one of which being uh, some people are a danger to themselves and others
Uh, and some people just don't have anywhere else to go
Like the film goes out of its way to and on top of that there's uh penny flex. She's not violent. She's just delusional
The film goes out of its way to show
That yeah, not everyone that's mentally ill
Resorts to violence. It's just him multiple times we've seen in this video
This is how mentally ill people act but not this
This is how she's just like what people say. This isn't what a mentally ill person does
People have said that and i'm not an expert on mental illness. Then again
I'm not the one making the positive claim that this is not something mentally ill people do
Or this isn't something that a mentally ill person would do or this isn't something that you would expect to see from a mentally ill person
I like I didn't know we had so many experts on mental illness who reviewed movies who could just be so confident in saying
That oh, yeah, because of that it definitely doesn't work his mental that wouldn't let him know it wouldn't do and similarly
None of us have ever met anybody who with any kind of mental illness has actually told people about it, right? Nobody ever says
Yeah, i'm very depressed or i've actually been diagnosed with it or i have ADHD or autism any kind of
Yeah
Nobody ever talks about how they have it. Nobody ever does she think mentally ill people like they're literally incapable of understanding. They're mentally ill
That's ridiculous. That's like saying we can't tell we can't prove to a colorblind person that they're colorblind
I just assume she's saying that people will keep it to themselves, but that's just not true
That's just not true as he has he has a card that's specifically designed to hand to people
That explains to them because if he's laughing he won't be able to speak clearly
He has he has a carries around a laminated. I think card with him for this purpose
I I don't what do you want jenny? What do you people want?
Tell me what it is that you want from this film that would fix it
Exactly. Some of his chances. How do you think people get diagnosed exactly?
You think a lot of people don't
Is like I said there how do you think we can prove to people who are colorblind that they are colorblind and they accept?
And can justify that they are colorblind. I mean we we know colorblindness exists because we can diagnose it
Yeah, we we can prove it to the people who are colorblind even though they only have
They're like bars in the
Specific small part here because I remember one of my friends was colorblind. He said he was missing
Like a filter or a bar in his eye that uh prevents him from seeing certain colors
This is different kinds of colorblind, but there's like there are definitive biological things we can look at
absolutely
It doesn't color blindness to some extent I guess it depends on
What kind you have I'm not in any any kind of expert on colorblindness like you can't differentiate between certain colors
Pretty much. Yeah, so yeah, you can't see certain colors or you don't you essentially don't see certain colors or you
Some colors look like other colors. Um
Catch all term for it for the most part
But it's just the the the rods and cones and stuff and their brain don't quite work the way everyone else does and
We can use dare. I say it the science to show people
Everyone else can see this you can't if we can you know
We can prove to people they're colorblind the idea that we can't show mentally ill people that they're mentally ill is I mean it's
I don't know how she thinks that it works. Apparently they're called cones. Yeah, I couldn't remember
I'm talking literally like over 10 years ago. He told me this
cones
And they have like those dot tests and stuff too
Hmm
They will movie thesis statement. I also think it's weird that
Even though he's like in full joker mode and shooting people
He says mentally ill instead of crazy as though not wanting to offend anybody
What what what an insane reach
What an absolutely insane reach first off he's not shooting people
He specifically he specifically shot specific people specifically
Like he's not a bad says people he shot one person in that scene
Yes, he shot several times, but there's still one person
He shot one person and he said mentally ill because
I don't which one is they're both correct. I don't think he would like to refer to himself as crazy
Necessarily
Like in a genuine sense. It's like that's probably it's
Like I probably say mentally ill more than crazy myself
Not because of any political or social reason. It's just what the reason I would use it
To inform what i'm discussing like because when you say jenny's acting crazy in this whole video
It's like oh, she's mentally ill and i'm like well
Not that I know of and then if I say she is mentally ill
You'll be like, oh does she actually have some kind of you know, I mean she's acting crazy
Like there there are connotations to these words
Yeah, people don't generally conflate the two
Unless you're jenny
Because you're an idiot
Yeah, what a strain what an what an interesting criticism
That he said like you're criticizing the fact he said mentally ill instead of crazy
It reminds me after shooting people when he only shot one person specifically it reminds me of it's in the same like bullpuck as um
They have a giant midget sjw. What would be like? What do you what?
Yeah
Like it seems so obvious to them you said like your references i'm not matching up
I want a sitcom where no bullshit and jenny nickels are like roomate
Every time you call her jenny nickels. I just think of josh from isn't is nickelson, right?
It's jenny nickels. And we should call her jeb nickels from now on. I think jeff
Yep nickels the father of josh nickels. I'm absolutely down with calling her jeb nickels
I have to come up with jeb nickels
For jeb nickels
Anyway, for me the only redeeming quality of that scene is that the joker uses werewolf as a verb. I love that
I feel like I say this about so many movies, but like what was the theme?
Oh for god's sake
I can't wait. What was the theme?
The theme was you should take care of the
Downtrodden society and be nice to people before we even do that like i'm sorry a film isn't a film without a theme, huh?
Like we have to stop all the way back so we have to have a theme we've established this cool
Just just fyi everyone you're not allowed to not have a theme
What is the theme of the blair witch?
Never be alone alone bad
Don't screw with people
I
The more they do this the more we create a community that hates themes
Don't even want that
It's like we don't want to hate
We've we have ended up hating them
It's just they're directly associated with garbage arguments and you're like, oh
The whole theme bad and you're like, no, no, no, no just dale and tucker had a more consistent theme
than the last jedi
A theme about the perils of jumping to conclusions. Yeah prejudice
prejudices
Like I we saw for those of you who weren't here earlier. I mean dale and tucker, uh verse evil
Yesterday and I loved it. It was hilarious
I don't know why you keep flipping it's tucker and dale just in case they want to tucker and dale and tucker tucker and dale
Chip and dale tom and jerry whatever
In fairness baller we were calling
Hill house house hill. Yeah, we had to stop doing it because we're fucking it up. You call it house hill. No, no, no
Wait
Yeah, yeah. No. Yeah, but okay. So the context for that is I thought it was
The haunting of house hill as in the name of the house
Was it belonged to the hills? So it was the house hill
Like that's how I fucked it up in my head
Well, but i'm admitting that I fucked it up and you'll be like, oh it doesn't matter
It doesn't matter it's all shit everything shit
Because the tlj is the movie to end all movies. Yeah, uh, tucker and dale versus evil is very good movie
I'm going to check it out right now. This is fun. It has more it has more consistent writing set up pay off and
Its themes are more well expressed in the film
Than most movies that i've seen ever and if you have watched plenty of slashes, you'll love it even more
Or at least enough to understand some tropes, which you probably don't even need to watch any to know that but still
Probably not it it does kind of stand on its own silliness
What was it about it sure presents itself as though it has something to say and it half says many things
Many of them is it about the unfairness of class disparity thomas wayne definitely seems pretty generically evil
I mean not evil evil
Yeah, I don't know about evil
He's in like he's just in the same way that the mob is
Well, i'd say the mob is worse, but and similarly to the mob and the other side
They they talk past each other. They don't understand each other. They have their bubbles
They don't they don't want to understand the other side
They assume that all the problems are because the other people
Which no, yeah, there's no relevance of that these days, huh?
Nope god, she's so vapid
I mean honestly, is there even a functioning gem in her head? The jab has a jab in his
It was just dead on the wheel
It's like a matryoshka doll but with jab bush
Oh
Wasn't she complaining about everything being too on the nose and now everything's half
Yeah, I that's the thing if I listening to this I have no idea what she would do to improve this movie
Can you imagine if she applied improvements to it?
Can we get a make it terrible? It's like I said, I don't want her to get anywhere near a movie ever
Please don't make a movie jenny. We should jenny, please
I mean at the very least we can rest assured she won't make a movie because do you honestly think someone this stupid will
Actually know how to write a script or direct a film or
Ryan's a dnd
Oh
In fairness they didn't direct
Ryan can direct he just can't write. I wonder what jenny's opinion about
I'm sure she thought it was all right. It had a message. The theme is clear. I
I struggle to believe that she knows how to tie her own shoes much less make a movie. She wears ugg boots
She doesn't have to tie her shoes
Do you think she's the kind of person that wears crocs with socks?
Oh, she probably wears shoes too. She she might she she would view that as a fashion abomination
I don't know. I feel like she would do it. I don't think she would I think it should be like this isn't right
On violent mentally ill man
And he punches him in the face and he calls poor people clowns on the news that's what insight is not unmovated
The problem is the lack of understanding
What you think i'd say that every person in that mob was evil like of course not
There was only one guy that shot thomas wayne not all of them
Was only uh, I mean there were people like rioting and shit, but it's not
You can't you can't remove nuance jenny very very very odd and now there's a very odd moral
From jenny nickle. I must
It's all those riots which are in the end. It doesn't even jab
The focal point of the movie, but if you call someone a clown and that insights a riot you are not an evil person
Yeah
Yeah
Evil that's such a what a word to describe thomas wayne with the events in that film interesting. Yeah, he's a dick
Absolutely. He's a he's a dick
But he ain't evil
Well, I mean he's confronted by a seemingly non-violent
Mentally ill man and he punches him in the face. So let's go over why thomas wayne might have punched
Arthur fleck
Can anyone think of any reasons why might that might have happened?
Confronted alone creepily in a bathroom. Hmm. Let's start off there. Let's start with a setting
Let's start off a day earlier
I was gonna say this man laid hands on his son
And choked out alfred
Well, yeah, he tried to choke alfred seemingly to death
This man is incredibly mentally unstable is the adopted son of someone who is incredibly mentally unstable
thomas wayne to me seems like the kind of guy who would imagine muscle sends a message
He outright says and i'm I think i'm quoting this almost verbatim
If you lay hands on my son again, i'll fucking kill you
I mean his motive his his tactics are certainly
You say but you will his motivation isn't evil
I mean, that's like the natural response of any responsible parent
I can imagine hitler saying if you touch my germany
Um, but yeah, no, he's just like wow you you hit this poor mentally ill man
That's what that scene was. There was nothing else to it. It's all it was nothing else
No misunderstanding job
Thomas wayne definitely seems pretty generically evil. I mean he's confronted by maybe maybe these people
Mentally ill man and he punches him fair
It's it's pretty typical of this crowd to assign evil to some oh, yeah, you know pretty pretty reasonable things
How many times have we been called?
Evil for not like a fucking star wars movie. We've said the no-no. Oh, yeah, we said a word that makes us evil
It's pretty generically evil. I mean he's confronted by a seemingly non-violent
Mentally ill seemingly seemingly nonviolent man who strangled his butler
Yeah, he strangled the butler man and who jabbed his fingers into his son's mouth to make him smile after handing him a bokeh
Did you watch that is a jenny
He said in that very scene
Stay away from my son or i'll fucking kill you
He gives his explanation for his violent outburst and he was pretty restrained for a good chunk of that
And the fact that he didn't report him to the police shows
really insane
Restrained from thomas wayne he peacefully straggled him
I mean here's the thing like thomas wayne punches him
Then makes the threat and walks away
He didn't call the cops or call security
He was I mean, he's a guy who clearly likes to take care of things on his own
But arthur didn't have a weapon he can't be a threat what do you mean? Oh, yeah, that's right
Do you so I mean i've got a few ideas on how you can deal damage to somebody when you just have your fists
Punch him, especially when you're alone with that somebody in a bathroom
Um, yeah, like i'm okay i'm moving on
And he punches him in the face and he calls poor people clowns. Oh, no, he called people and that's evil
He calls poor people clowns. He specifies
It's the kind of people who take like a horrible vengeance upon classes. They think of victimizing them
That's his and then almost immediately after saying that he says I want to help these people and get them out of poverty
She's like a member of the mob
She's like this guy is evil. He called everyone clowns
She's like here's a problem thomas wayne. Exactly. You're the kind of person who shoots
people in alleyways
Because you're the one who assigns moral evil to these people without even thinking about it
It's like you're the kind of people the movie says are bad
Maybe that's why you don't like the movie. Maybe it's some small. I know i'm armchair
psychologicalist here
Someone said he called him. He called him a boy
I love that we both notice that maybe the movie's trying to say that she's maybe part of the issue
I am actually doesn't like that in a joker
Fanatical vc universe he called him a boy
Congratulations
Jeb nickels. You're now on par with the not so great debate guy
Iets which are kind of a focal point of the movie
But arthur has that whole bit on the talk show where he insists that at least according to him
He's not political didn't mean to become a symbol for that movement
Doesn't have strong feelings about it one way or the other but then he contradicts that by getting mad at thomas wayne for not caring
No, it's personal with him he thinks the guys
God damn man. What movie did she watch? What was it called? What movie did you watch?
I think I might need to go get food
Right. It's some pizza. Yeah
That might be a good idea
You're gonna buy the blu-ray for this right in this case, yes
Oh my goodness. Yeah
Actually will be in the jeb fanatical republican primary universe
In the jeb fanatical won the white house universe
It's terrible jenny, so I guess he does support that movement, but then why not just say he's because he doesn't
Jenny please I can only take so much. This is like
please
Brain jenny platform to say it and why not kill thomas wayne when he had the chance if he's
Thought he was his dad
And once again he did what's wrong with him also how
How would he kill him?
How like tell me the means by which he would kill him
I mean he could definitely well. No, I don't think he's strong enough. Yeah, he could try he could try to like do some harm, but
But
Yeah, okay, oh yeah, that's what a mentally ill person would do I know because
well
No, that's an interesting thought
Maybe she's criticizing the film because she is mentally ill and she knows that he's acting inconsistent
In regards to how she feels mentally ill person should be acting which is like, you know shitting on good films
That's that's that's what you know, it makes sense. I can believe it
He's violent now he kills the talk show host instead for being mean to him
Which is a pretty feeble reason. He just kills me
He humiliated him on public television that spread to thousands. In fact, it's probably the whole city
Just didn't make it into the paper as well
It wouldn't be surprised. I'm not sure I would ask wolf, but he's he's he's fooding
Calling up his dealer. I just like this is rough
It feels like um, like like you're a math teacher
And she keeps submitting her paper and it keeps saying two plus two is five and you're like, no you stamp a red cross
push it back
Pushes it again at seven. You're like
No
And when it finally comes up with a four, you know, I'll say be like show your workings
How did you get here?
Yeah, it's like
Fought was two plus two is supposed to be four and they keep saying seven
It was like well, but four and three were seven. How come two and two can't be what?
Everything is everything
Leave arthur that he doesn't stand for anything, which I think is kind of a big if
Is that what the movie's about? Is it about how violent criminals are just unhinged?
Shouldn't be looked to as as heroes or symbols
But then why does he get to have a big speech at the end of the movie about how the world has wronged him?
Why suddenly make him capable of delivering? I've got the the dash. You always been able to articulate
I think like uh, she's killed me pretty much. I'm just um
I'm kind i'm i'm well, I was I I gave you the warning a while ago
I'm partially exhausted by her terrible takes after terrible takes after everything she says is wrong every fucking sentence that comes out of this
Oh
Don't say it raw
You keep that rooftop ready, it's you it's in your pocket, okay
It's like everything she says is wrong
That's what's exhausting about it at the moment in the film that he's supposed to be the craziest
Is it literally just a deconstruction of batman? They have this line at the beginning where this christ
How is this the deconstruction of batman?
I was like at this point i'm like sure jenny. It's a deconstruction of batman. You've you've figured it out
You got the secret message. She submits that in the math class when it's like 9 p.m
And you're like, yeah, sure fine. I can't go
I just need to go fucking home to my wife and kids
Hopefully I want to see them again the deconstruction of batman. Sure go for it
The news stations are talking about this epidemic of giant super rats because like no one's been cleaning up the garbage
The city keeps getting worse
The rats are getting bigger and meaner and scarier and then one of the hosts jokes
That the way to take care of the super rats is now they're going to bring in super cats and it's like a meta commentary
On batman like no, he's a talk show host. He tells jokes on tv
Well, this is the thing. I I don't even actually have
um
If she was to say you could interpret that as he's a new class of bad guy
And we're gonna need a new class of good guy to be able to stop him or something. I'd be like, okay
Okay, that's what that line could be interpreted as I don't give it fine
But no, she's she's trying to make an argument that that is evidence for the film being a deconstruction of batman
This is happening. She made that point
One line that was a joke for it converted into a meaning converted into the whole point of the film
This is your brain on subjectivity
This is your brain
Uh, how did we get here mauler?
How did we arrive at this location? How did we get to this place?
What was in between those jump cuts of our lives that led us to dance in this bathroom? That is
Oh flush it flush it
He's a band-aid solution. He doesn't actually fix what's wrong
You bring in a batman to beat up the criminals. You don't address why there's so much crime
You don't address the class disparity in gotham city. Whatever. This is not a new concept if anything
She's literally yeah, this is yeah guys. This is baby's first batman commentary. She's criticizing the narrative. She's just invented
Oh, yeah, she yeah, she fucked that up she fucked it up man. She showed that it showed it what for
I just
I don't know
And critique it's been talked to death and it's like yeah
That's what happens when you try to make serious movies out of like a thing made for kids
What?
What?
Does she think kids movies can't have serious lessons slash themes slash messages?
Dude little foot's parents died. I don't know. What do you want? I just don't I don't get it. I don't
How are you pulling this stuff from?
No, i'm just no
A broken doggo. No, and I know it would be a woman. I knew it
This is oh, isn't the dark knight celebrated for its thematic relevance like everything it says about society
Just like it was made from a dumb kids thing lol
How did how did her fans enjoy that comment?
Like yeah, although these are the same people who say yes do superhero movies dumb
Hmm tlj is great superhero movies are dumb. They're just stupid dude pro movies dude pro movie
God damn man
80 years ago or whatever so maybe that's part of the theme because like arthur is she's desperately searching for a theme
It's so obvious be nice to people take care of your mentally ill
It's just so it's so fucking simple and there's other other stuff in there. Absolutely, but those are basically the thing
I'm picturing like this big sort of pen with all of the subjective
Obsessed theme critics waddling around like blindfolded and we're all just looking at them in shock and horror like oh, no
They can't find the theme
Oh, no
It's like it's like a it's like a a pig or a cow can't reach the trough or whatever. They're like, oh, no
They might they might just like cancel this
Reaching for those grapes
And we're like here's the theme and we go to hand them the food and they're like, no, that's not food you're like, oh
Oh, no, I swear it is. It's actually clearly food. I know you don't trust it but
Use it and it'll prove itself. I promise it's circular. Please just do it
How does the pen work just right with the fucking pen and you could find out if the pen works
Gentle
Any treatment that he needs gentle when he's sick
Color gentled till he manifests as like violently crazy and then he's just arrested and taken away like the cat solution
But why give arthur that? Where would you want him to go?
I don't know. I need to like have a sign that I can hold up. It just says no
No
Sign for each of us
Yeah, and then he's just arrested and taken away like the cat solution
But why give arthur that line where he says he found things easier when he was still locked up
As if he's in favor of that solution
Why allude to the charlie chaplin movie with the same kind of plot element?
Like is him being locked up bad or good?
Why don't I get to watch a scene where arthur has to ward off see what's happening?
They like draw a moral out of the film because they cannot think about it themselves
Yeah, it's almost becoming a case study for the theme critics
We're in lab coats watching his struggle. We're like, wow
So they when when receiving an obvious and very fundamental relatable theme they go nuts
This is like a day of Attenborough narration
We provided a theme to these creatures and now we see them in a frenzy
They even start to attack each other
The ants cannot see so despite the fact the theme is right in front of their faces
They cannot smell it. So they desperately search
And now you see the ground they attack one another they turn violent
They are now
Pooping on the theme. Pooping on the theme. Pooping all over. They think that they think the theme is a bathroom
How hideous taking a shit
on the theme
Like a like a poorly trained house cat and now we introduce
The last jedi into the habitat and they all calm down
Wonderful incredible you might say
Despite all evidence to the contrary. They believe it to be the greatest film ever
Despite it being a literal poop cactus
It is prickly with its poop
They begin
to fold it
And hug it
wonderful
I don't know man like it's just fascinating and
I'm really only pressing play at this point to just see if there's anything else with commenting on with the video
Yeah, my my investment in this video is
By the moment it wanes. Yes. Oh wane
Super rat with a baseball bat you promised me super rats
Bring me the super rat is the movie really about the underfunding of mental health care because even when arthur was in treatment
His doctors seemed apathetic. It didn't appear to be helping and they even suggest holy shit. Jenny
It's almost like you're cracking it, but she sees it as contradictions. I know
It's like yeah. Yeah, that's part of the problem
It's like if you go forward twice you reach the food jenny and she goes forward twice forward plus forward equals backwards
No, no, no, no, no jenny. No
So when he's off meds he's healthier and more coherent and more in control of himself
No, he believes this but he's definitely got some uh issues because of that. I was gonna let it walk into your own grave
No, no, no, no, no man needs his meds
So is the message nobody should be on meds are holy fuck what the message is no it should be on
what
Yes, that's the message todd phillips believes that conventional medicine is a lie
And it's all aroma therapy
Just prayer prayer will solve all ills
bleeding and leeches
I'm writing that shit down a character was happy without his meds is the theme that no one should be on meds
Are you real you're a real person right now, come on
Oh my goodness
I'm laughing because i'm depressed
That's the theme of this episode intellect 100 000 fucking galaxy brain takes here
Are they always a negative and why make a point to clarify that arthur has physical brain damage?
Is that to also support the idea that he shouldn't be on meds and meds are bad?
Why would where are you going need meds if they have physical brain trauma, how does one even arrive at that?
She's fired all psyllid this man
The jenny nickels where are you doing gem nickels no
Oh
You see and I know for a fucking fact that most people would have put this on while doing something and concluded
Yeah, that video was all right. It was fair
It's insane
It's like she's trying to find the theme she's trying to catch that magic dragon
He's a
I
I'm laughing because i'm sad this unreal like I feel bad that we haven't covered it sooner at this point
Oh my goodness, yeah that stalls girl this must be the first one of the videos they've ever watched they're all like this
No
Jeff nickels
Oh
I have to catch up. I guess I don't know if you know her name is jeff nickels now for reasons
I'm not fully prepared to elaborate on but that's
It's impossible to share the lore and how that's explained. Okay. Oh my goodness gracious
Someone's the guy with the efap website and then he's gonna have to explain how jeff
Because
It's like well, you see we've already got two video beeps apparently that i'm gonna have to watch from this episode
Oh
It's the same guy, but I mean that could be that could be gentled jaboki
We're almost there and I say that knowing that we're not gonna pause as much okay, we're almost do are we not
Have that whole theme of arthur trying to present as normal
We have that line in his notebook that these she literally has gone to the point where she sees that just anything that happens is a theme
Like arthur walks through a door she's like it's the theme that doors are supposed to be opened like dude, yeah
This is where we have a final cylinder this just doesn't know what's happening anymore
I just see those zoom in on where it says the worst part about having a mental illness like man jeb's inside of there
He sees all that hamster wheel
Oh god, oh god, I can do it. What are you doing? At first at first there was no themes another everywhere
They're just coming out of the woodwork. He slipped and he's just spinning her
No control
Oh my goodness
Is people expect you to behave as if you don't so is the message
To embrace the idea of people having strange tics or social disorders and not expect a degree of normalcy because that's fine
But that can't be the theme because for
Arthur accepting himself and liking who he is
Directly correlates to him all this trouble
She's having with like she presents a theme and then she finds someone that contradicts it in the film and says this can't be the theme
Did she even try this with tlj? Is she on her meds? Did she try this with tlj?
Of course, fuck also the idea that we don't let like mentally ill people don't get to decide their own treatment
Like this idea that that's a thing the movie's trying to put across
is
Fascinating you remember? Um major lee when he when he is his justification finally someone sensible
Is just so I was thinking like how would I explain to jenny?
Jeb nickels that um, she's wrong about the theme in tlj
Like it's inconsistent with itself and obviously the major reference everyone has is the poe learns through his failure how to blah blah blah blah
And i'd be like, uh-huh
So what makes what he does in the opening a failure and you remember major lee's biggest reference was lea slapping him
Like the act of her slapping him confirms that it was a mistake
No, it just shows that lea thinks that well then the film proves that lea is wrong the film shows lea is wrong
That's why the the movie shit because the film is actively trying to tell us this thing
But the what happens in the film is completely counter to that because i'm pretty sure you say that and then he's like
You're like does the activist slapping a person mean they've done wrong? He was like, no
He was like, right. So that's irrelevant. Let's actually look at what happened
He was like, I know what the film was trying to say
But what actually happens is a completely different story. That's why the film's thematically
It's funny because it's the complete opposite
He does the right thing in the beginning and he's punished for it and then does the wrong thing in the end
His success
Had him learn failure like it's the weirdest fucking thing ever
It's okay for men to fail
murdering people and conforming I personally would kind of prefer that arthur conform
Maybe i'm alone in this the movie gives so many of its characters
Statements that sound like they're the theme about like what's wrong with society what needs to be fixed?
Yeah, just as normal people almost like everybody has a take on what is wrong with society
It's almost like the class divides they're blaming each other
If you think that everything is at what point does at what point do you are you like, you know, maybe
Maybe there isn't a theme and i'm just
Maybe i'm just seeing everything as a theme and it's not really maybe some lines of dialogue are just like people talking
I'm seeing like that same experimental room thing like you walk in with your lab coat and your little clipboard
She's got like frizzy hair and mascara going down her eyes because she's been crying
You're like, maybe there is no theme and she just looks you like
I think i've figured it out. There is no she's they find her weeks later locked in a room scrawled in blood
There is no theme. There's no theme over and over and over on the walls
It's broken her
I'm, sorry, jeb nickels. Like this is just the reality you have to you have to deal with
Easily back away from someone losing their religion
Well, I just I wonder if i'd like to know what she thinks of a film without a theme what happens then is the film meaningless
And i'm curious if somebody legitimately makes a film that has no theme
Will one be created post-hoc?
I think so out of the view. I even think that we would happily have a shot at it
We'd like to look at all the components see what lines up and it can be a really fun experience
But um some films as far as i'm concerned
Like leave them alone. They don't have to have a theme. Why are you attacking them for lacking a theme?
It frustrates me. And the funny thing is in this one. I don't think this is an example of a film that does not have a theme
And yes, they struggle
Well, that wasn't the good guy or that character's crazy and it's like well then say
Something there was so much talk around this movie about how it's going to encourage mass murderers or incel murderers or whatever
Same thing I got
Incel murderers and what are the same thing mass murderers and incel murderers?
How are those every incel that mood is mood is on a mass scale apparently or is every incel a mass murderer
I don't yeah, I don't get the weird state. How are they the same?
Even i'm like one describes
The state of somebody I guess and then the other one describes the about of people you killed
Okay
Definitely, uh, and I don't know time will tell I guess but honestly this movie is so devoid of a message and such a blank
devoid of a message
If you say so devoid of a message
The jab inside her head is dead on the rails. Like we said this he's he's out of
All the themes killed him
But now if she's concluded there is no theme
Yeah, I guess people could just make it be about whatever they want it to be and it doesn't really mean it's guilty of that
It just means that it's irresponsibly vague and like irresponsibly vague
This movie is irresponsibly vague. That one's going in the vague to the point
to the point where it's irresponsible
What responsibility does a movie have to have a?
message
Irresponsibly vague that's where we're at folks. If you lack a theme you're irresponsibly vague
Oh
My goodness
So when I saw the movie I didn't get to hear any kind of audience reactions because I saw it
Enclosed in my car at a drive-in movie theater because I didn't want to get shot. But then in order to what?
So you actually believe that
So you believed all those ridiculous fucking insane articles that there would be mass shootings committed by incels because of a joker movie
I feel like an alien. I didn't even think about that when I went to see it
Like it was just we went to the cinema walked in watched it came out. I didn't thought about it
I think at one point I was like I don't see how this would radicalize anybody though
Like I think that was a comment I had at one point. I know that's what I thought
And what's interesting too is that?
The movie doesn't have a clear meaning that's irresponsible
But all of those articles hyping up the idea that this movie would cause mass shootings not irresponsible at all
So how many people pointed out in the chat already?
Those articles got her to change her actual behavior
That's how impactful it was to her. She changed the things that she did in her life
Because of these things that maybe it's had an effect on her enjoyment, too
And her perception her ability to even absorb the events of the film
and yeah, finally, uh
Cars aren't immune to bullets. I don't know why she thinks that oh, oh, yeah cars are not at all
bulletproof
I mean, maybe the engine block is probably the engine block is probably bulletproof for the most part
But yeah doors are absolutely not bulletproof windows. Obviously not not your trunk not the wheels not the greatest offense
bullets
It is to it is concealment. It is not cover
What uh, what a video
This is this is a high ranking for bad. Honestly, this is very bad
I felt like I had to look it up and like
rewatch certain scenes
Primarily the talk show scene because it's so dialogue heavy and because it feels like it's given a lot of importance
So anyway, I looked up a lot of like fan cams of it and you can hear the audience reactions in that and I was a bit
Surprised there were like three different uploads of varying quality and in every single one at the moment that he shoots the talk show host
You literally hear dudes like clapping dudes
Because clapping is indicative of your gender
Okay
How did you know that? Yeah, how did you know it was dude clapping? I don't even know what to say to that
Okay. Also my theater was fucking silent as the grave because we were all on the edge of our seats because we were nervous as fuck
Yeah, my well, I was gonna say mine was silent, but the only time my cinema's ever even made a noise
It's very rare. But when when milne was picked up by cap my son. It was the first time they went
Yeah, yeah, yeah in the movies. Definitely people did that. Also, let's let's be fair and consistent here
There are people out there. There are fucking
there are
Neanderthals who clap whenever a plane lands successfully
What does that have to say about the nature of aircraft jenny? Do tell me
Oh
Yeah, no one I I
I would be curious if we could find these because i'm actually not gonna believe her
I don't believe her at this point males clap others jazz hands. All right
So we know it's the true
I don't even care though. Like who cares if people did or didn't clap. How the hell do you know?
And why did they clap?
Well, yeah, there's there's so many different
uh
Brain hair teachers at the moment that he shoots the talk show host
You literally hear dudes like clapping and in one of them the guy behind the camera is even like that was great
Haha, that was so great. And it's like why it was a great scene
Oh, here we go. All right, here we go
Oh
Yeah, so when you describe something as great, uh, it could be for a lot of reasons the scene is fantastic
I have no idea why that's great
Or why or why he was referring to it is great. Like does he like I'm just gonna put it out there jenny
Yeah, the scene is great
Like I agree. The scene is amazing. So
So does describing so I mean, let's just extend this out like, you know anything that's tragic in a movie describing the scene is great
Are you just like endorsing it? Is that how that works?
I don't know. Let's ask this guy guy who was recorded in this video. You probably watch efap. I'm sure of it
What about the people?
What about the people who clapped?
When luke destroyed the death star
They're happy that millions of people would killed clearly i'm saying disgusting
Great
Okay
We don't know why he's saying that we need to know why i'm not trying to say that makes you a murderer because it definitely doesn't
What?
I wasn't assuming that I definitely wasn't okay. I'm glad he cleared that up
She's special but it does kind of suggest that you can't follow the emotional cues of any story more complex than like
iron man like
Wow
Iron man. Yeah, superhero movies are dumb. And if you laugh at them you also the tlj praise it
I've got a lot to unpack in that small sentence. Wow
That's something else. Where do I begin with that one? So describing any scene is great
So for example something horrifying in the cinema a really well made
Scene like that and it crescendos until you are fucking scared out of your mind
Then the credits hit and you're you if you go
Holy shit, that was amazing
You're insane basically
Because you've just you've gotten the word isn't typically associated with the feeling of being scared. Therefore wrong
To describe the scene with mare as great
Is wrong because you should be
Tell us how we're supposed to feel jenny because i'm clearly a
Yeah at a loss and I just us cavemen. We need to be told how we're supposed to feel
I love the condescension towards iron man as well. Oh, yeah great film man. I guess it's awesome
And she's just like oh go and enjoy your iron man. I'll stay over here with my masterpieces like tlj. She's like, what are you?
I don't uh, it's a struggle this this thing that we do rags
It is a struggle
Fucking dude bros messing up everything
You sat through that whole walking phoenix performance and you made it to like the
110 minute mark still thinking this was some kind of feel-good underdog story. In a way it is
I mean, that's certainly how arthur feels. Yeah arthur's reached that degree of freedom
He's become who he believes himself to be he's getting
attention and appreciation for his actions like
Also, also let's not forget this isn't an actual murder
No, no
Film scene how she said that if you call the scene great, that doesn't make you a murderer
As if that was the logical conclusion and then we need to separate that because people assume
For letting me know that about my I appreciate the kindness
My jeez
Do you process that as a triumphant scene
Do you think things are gonna go well for arthur from here? What were those people as far as he was concerned?
It did even when he was in arkham
It's honestly like she talks so much about how this is a character study and then completely ignores
That we're supposed to see the events from arthur's eyes and a lot of it
It's fascinating to me
falls like
What we're action scene when joker fight batman?
Oh, I also don't like that scene at the end where it cuts to him in a bright hospital
Yeah, dump their stupid dude bros. They think of all the stuff that she has pulled from these people based on that
extremely
Random dumbass dude bros go enjoy iron man while she invents he said
I mean that's kind of like the breaking point where that scene turns to another scene essentially
And they're like wow
That whole scene was oh, it was a great scene. I agree. I do agree. That's the
I mean, you know in the cinema, I didn't have time to announce that I thought it was great. I was just staring
Oh, yeah, I was like whoa
I was
Therapist and it's ambiguous as to whether or not the whole movie happened. Aha
I bet like at least 20 of you thought I wasn't going to mention that and you're typing fingers
Were warming up you were going to mention. I wasn't the fact of the whole in the studio
It cuts to him in a bright hospital and he's like talking to a therapist and it's ambiguous as to whether or not the whole movie happened
Aha, I bet like at least 20 of you thought I wasn't going to mention that and you're typing fingers were warming up
Yeah, wow 20 of you that's fucking nothing
So I don't think that we've actually made that argument once and we have talked
For a shit ton longer than they probably oh, yeah, man on a video in the span of a day
When I heard doomcock talk about it. I was like
What?
Okay, that was the first time I'd even considered it. Yeah, i'm not too
The idea that it's all on the head is just kind of I don't know what that means as a whole really it's like
Is it an exploration of what he would feel?
Is how he would become the man he thinks he is from the safety of the hospital or at least the the
Area of the hospital. I don't know like um
And I as far as i'm aware i'm a wolf mentioning this that um
Todd phillips or at least the people behind the script have announced that it's not supposed to fucking mean that the whole film
Is in his head?
Um, i'd have to check on that though
I wouldn't be surprised. I mean it's all yeah, then I didn't even consider it. I guess other people did
I wasn't I certainly wasn't among them. I just like the idea that she's like, ah got you
It's like man. We didn't even use that argument. We've made like I want to say over a hundred at this point
We don't need that
Oh, no. No, no, it doesn't have to make sense
Because the story you haven't demonstrated how it doesn't make sense sister. Try again
Of course his story was maudlin or lacked internal consistency or didn't have a point don't talk about internal consistency when you fucking
Adore tlj. It makes no sense to me. Also. This video is
Inconsistent as fuck
I know
Uh, this is like uh people and the people watching this however many of you there are don't become this
Don't become you should avoid
This is the thing. Don't be jenny jenny is the thing
You ever
Don't become jeb nickels
Jeff nickels is bad. Jeff nickels is a warding very bad at what she does
Wait, it's a story invented by a madman
Or depending upon my preference as a commenter maybe part of the story happened and other parts didn't happen and I can just selectively decide
And keep the ones I like to hear the ones that she isn't half
concerned about people fighting back on her on this isn't she
She couldn't just say what she thought about everything. She'd be like, hey, don't you dare don't you go there?
I didn't and that's how movies work now
But no and this is what i'm talking about
This is the same thing as having the joker outright say he's not political and then making a movie with many implied political themes
And then also having him do a mission. We've been over how those little bullshit. So, sorry
Statement at the end you're doing like a cop-out thing and you're affording yourself enough deniability
That if any part of the movie doesn't make sense, you can be like well, it wasn't supposed to but then why did you make your movie?
It's disingenuous to claim that it doesn't have any point because you made it you find against arguments you invented
This is like literal stool manning
She she she is so convinced
That the movie doesn't have a point it is not it's not just that the movie doesn't have a point
But she has determined that
Todd ted phillips
Knows that it doesn't have a point
therefore a thing she says
Like that's how that's that's how quick she is to just leap to certainty
I just love this. Who the fuck said that this didn't have a message if anything so far with the other people
At least other people are like, oh it tried to do something but it failed and she's like, oh no, it doesn't even have a message
Like it's confirmed that it doesn't have a message and it wasn't supposed to have a message
Like where are you? What planet are you from?
You crazy person she keeps battling these like theoretical defenses against arguments that aren't even fair
And the arguments against the arguments that aren't fair are stupid and then she defeats the stupid argument and you're just sitting there like
Do you have any idea this is like you're so far up your own ass
The degrees at which
You see a film you convert it into nonsense in your head
You generate arguments based on the nonsense you project them out
You anticipate arguments against the nonsense arguments, and then you defeat those nonsense arguments
It's it's like the film's about her. She's generating like all this insanity, you know
You know at the end of the first incredibles where syndrome has that robot that he controls can defeat
So everyone thinks that he destroyed the badman. Yeah
That's what this is. That's what this is
I'm back
For some reason but like you're just
Before we can go forward. Uh
Just a quick thing to say I tismed and
So
I took down one of the videos. It's gonna go back up. It'll be up probably before the show's done at the rate has been going
but uh
Actually, how far are we into the video? We're not actually gonna
29 minutes 12 seconds. I think we're gonna go to two chats after this because we're at six and a half
I'm wondering well, anyway, uh, it'll be going back up later tonight
uh, so
I I made an amendment to the video a few days ago because of something I left out
And then I didn't go back to
Recheck the rest of the video and left in an inaccuracy. So I just clipped out the inaccuracy
It's rendering now should be up hopefully within the next five or so hours and there you go
Just so people know
Afraid to commit to what it is
What's the point of the framing narrative and the unreliable narrator thing?
Even if we assume this whole movie was a delusion or like willfully made up by the joker
Does that inform us of something in his world view whether or not you no, no, no
Give us new
Sorry, whether or not it kind of works either way
Okay
He's not exactly secretive about how he feels or how he thinks the world is
Like that wouldn't actually change anything
My mind is like a putty right now. Like i'm struggling
I do feel you know you never see gumby
I don't think so. Yeah
Insight into the story that might have even been an interesting framing narrative
They set it up earlier or like did cutaways to it where he's talking to the therapist
Princess bride style and then maybe through the telling of the story you can get some kind of hints
The joker to make it up
You know, like like I don't even want to question how she would
I don't even she's coming up with a theoretical movie. So I don't even care
What are the arguments gonna be because it's about a theoretical movie has she seen the princess bride?
I'm, as we can assume. No, I don't think she's seen films. I'm not sure about that
I think she's only read about films
Up like what his motives are what what emotional impact he's trying to have
Or like maybe even the therapist could start noticing
Inconsistencies in the story or like commenting on them to make the audience start to doubt themselves and doubt the truth of what they're seeing
Like how cool would it be if you have this love interest character?
Everybody's calling her cheryl and like you notice or like the therapist notice and it's like I thought her name was sophie
What did you make that person up? What's going on? I don't know. I feel like that happened
She was made up the film did the thing you wanted. What was wrong with what happened?
no, I
Why is that better than what we got explain why that's better than what we got because she said it
Okay
You already decide that you want your framing narrative to be crazy guy telling a story
There are ways to own it and have it improve the story in some way
But saving it for the very end like it's supposed to be some kind of big shocking twist reveal
It just falls flat because it's just not a good twist. Like the story is about oh my god doomcaw could yeah
Doomcaw can be so upset by this. I think
I I love this part. I love the fact that then you look back on it and you're like, oh
Is your favorite part rex what this is your favorite part my favorite part
a
Mentally ill character. He's already had delusions in the rest of the story
So like you can see it coming from a mile away and also like that's been done so many times
Shut the fuck these arguments. It's been done before you can't do it
Like that's that's that's what she's brought me down to i'm just like you suck
Like you can't argue his like I already have like five hours
Just go back to your old hat is that mixing my metaphors to say old hat now
It's like an old hat that you can see from miles away
The biggest I didn't see I well, here's the thing. I didn't see it coming
Yeah, well, you're you're dude prize of course
You didn't see it coming you like I guess because when he went to her room and sat down and she was like, who are you?
I was like, oh shit
Also, that was that was my that was my oh shit moment. Well, you know, it was great. I loved it
While you were gone
She alluded to the idea that the people the kind of people who would enjoy joker a dude bros that enjoy stuff like iron man
Because because superhero movies are shit
She got me
Yeah, she's actually I do enjoy iron man. So yeah, I'd rather do enjoy iron man
Too bad. I'm not like jenny. No, sorry
Jeff Nichols, Jeff Nichols. Also, there's a couple of people who've asked in chat
There is a link in the description for wolf's new channel. Uh, you can expect a video there
And the other video will be re-uploaded
Within the next five six hours depends on how long it takes for the thing to render
Don't think it should be that long though
Just a mistake in the video. He'll be up again. Don't worry
It will be up
Yes
Oh
Bigger cop out than it would be in any other movie if the narrative had served to convince you of some very specific theme
Or some very oh she went on the themes for like 10 minutes wolf. It was horrible
I laughed what you say at one point she asked if the theme unironically she asked if the theme was
People shouldn't be taking their medicine
Are you
No, no way hey chat hey chat press what in chat if that's something she says
She is she was there there was a stretch where she was desperately like a fucking coke addict on withdrawal
What the theme was she was desperately searching for a theme. She was trying lord. So
So hard to find a theme look at them ones
There's never been a more universal agreement in chat
Gah
1.2 billion
I
Wolf it's true
floored
How could you possibly think that was the theme of the movie you and sip it retard?
I'm genuinely like I
When I
Agreed to come back on today
It was like, you know what?
I'm gonna be i'm gonna try and be civil and try to be nice
It's too hard with her she's too stupid
I mean we I mean just discuss like this is one of the worst we've covered this is up there top five
She is so dumb
There is not a single intelligent word that came out of her worthless mouth. Everything really is
Just worthless like every cent is like basically every statement that she makes is wrong
Speaking of which
Very specific characterization of the joker to get attached to
It might have kind of worked as like a slap in the face to find out
He's either malicious or crazy and it's not true
But instead the rest of it's so unfocused
You're just kind of like, okay
Like for example if the joker's actions
Had followed some kind of internal logic and they had been presented in a way where they seemed to us to make sense in
His very specific situation like oh he was a victim of circumstance. Oh, he's just misunderstood
He had no choice. He is a victim of circumstance for sure
Yeah, he's he's the first two things. Certainly
There's always certainly he had a choice
What his choices were influenced by the things that happened is that his mental illness causes him to laugh which is misunderstood dramatically by people
Yeah
He has a card to help with the fact that it's misunderstood. No mentally ill people don't know they're mentally ill
I think she's I like it when she suggests things the movie should do with it. You're like it did do the
Yeah
Hey rags, remember when you called that like fucking four hours ago in relation to fight about homecoming
Oh my god. Well, hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Someone just said something in the chat
Is this true? She wrote
You cut out. What's that?
Sorry, I had to push to talk as I was eating. What where's the comment? She related
What are the toppings that you get got got today?
Oh, I got a burger
Oh hamburger pizza. Very good
So yeah, she related incels to something retarded. She said yes
She says murderers incel murderers saying oh, yeah incels to mass shooters
So the mass murder was she said
She was like, yeah, like how this this film is probably going to inspire incel murderers or mass murderers, which are the same thing
but
Come on that's a really weird comment
Well
If you want to if you hate incels
You're gonna have to understand what they are
just from a purely pragmatic
Perspective here
You got to know what they are
If you if you want to make them go away and if they're terrible horrible, no good very bad
You're gonna have to know what they are
Sure, if you're racist, right? Yeah, that would be your own perspective. You hateful bigoted secret
nazi, yeah, you know
then she's like the
I want to call her a dumb blonde. She's not exactly blonde but man dirty blonde. Yeah, so she's like
Dirty blonde. I mean everything about this video is perfect. She's a shilford disney
She has makeup lathered on her face to the point. She doesn't even look like a real human being anymore
She managed to get literally every single point she's made about joker wrong
I mean
I i'm it is impressive. It is impressive
Man, I came I was hoping people might have got smarter over the past couple months. I was horribly wrong. Nope
It's totally taking you in like you're really feeling for the joker. Then at the end you're like, oh
He really pulled the wool over our eyes, but instead it's just
A story told by a crazy man. Why did you say crazy?
I
Crazy man look doc this may shock you because i'm in an asylum for the criminally insane
But my origin story is I was insane and then I became a criminal you're like, all right
I guess yep, that's all it was
At this point i'm just trying to get it to the end
Come on
Come on jab nickles. You need to go back to the to the solitary confide anna anna. You have a photo with her without the intense lighting
Tweet it at me
I'd like to know if she looks human
It's uh at what is it actually?
I don't even know my fucking twitter handle
at written rage
Yeah
I want I want to know does she look
Plastic in real life too
I doubt it
She's uh something special though for sure yeah morbid curiosity
You do believe that everything the joker is saying is true
You have just been convinced that the joker is crazy
And if you don't believe that the story is true, then the story has just informed you that the joker
Is crazy why give the story a framing narrative is like a twist and just stop saying words and end this fucking video, please
Please last line. I mean I can't begrudge it that it was a cool last line
This movie actually had a lot of cool lines like just good one-liners, but also most of them were in the trailer
Music too, I guess that's my review is like if you saw the trailers and you were oh, shut up
Then like just rewatch the trailers. It's a better
Literally, how dare you rewatch whatever her last name is
It's a better experience
Okay, I don't know how to say her last name because it's like icelandic and impossible to pronounce in the nickels
No, you mean the composer the composer for the movie
I know her first name is hilder
I'm probably mispronouncing that too, but
Hilder something or other icelandic lady
She made a wonderful soundtrack
Don't don't tell me that the soundtrack in joker is bad. It's really really good. She said that
Did she she just said that that she thinks the music in the trailers is better than the music in the movie?
Wow
One of the things I walked out of the movie comes saying is like oh wow, that's some great music
Especially uh, the the track called me joker at the end the one where he like paints the smile on his face
Great track good one wonderful score
But also most of them were in the trailer the trailers had better music too
I guess that's my review is like if you saw the trailers and you were intrigued then like just rewatch the trailers
It's a better experience than watching the whole movie doesn't take as long it's free
It's fine
But if you're like me and you just like to sit in the safety of your own car and eat movie theater popcorn
And then like knock yourself out
Oh my god
Oh, that's it that's how the video ends there's no ending thank you to the super rats
It's a reference. Don't you get it?
Is this how many patrons she has?
Um, oh my god all the people who funded this should feel fucking ashamed of yourself
Hold on there cannot be that many patrons how many subs does she have she's got a lot
This is this is why people wanted us to cover it for so long she's very uh, she's she's got a lot of fans
This is very this is fucking garbage like everything she said was just flat out wrong
I'm not going to be too hard on it because I don't think it was meant to be that shocking in the twist
But they have that reveal midway through where they find out that all of the joker's dates with sovi
Have been like delusions or daydreams or something and like dude
I promise you every woman in the theater knew it was fake as soon as she agreed to a first date where she
Went to watch him do stand-up comedy at an open mic night
Do you know how many years of goodwill you have to build up for me to go watch you do stand-up comedy at an open mic night?
Oh, sorry, we were supposed to laugh
Oh, that's how it oh, that's funny
Chat, please laugh
Please laugh for jab nickels
Please laugh
Um, uh, okay
So if a guy asked me out on a date and said i'm actually an amateur comedian
And I i'm doing a show on friday, you know this this friday night
And i'd like you to be there. I went I went I want to see in the audience
I'd be absolutely game for that
Absolutely
What I know i'm not a gal but
What's wrong with that?
I mean don't even know where to begin the sense of humor. That's the thing man. It's like that's one of my biggest things
I'm disappointed. What I was hoping she was gonna look like really hideous
She just looks like normal but without
with
She actually kind of has jowls, which is funny
Very odd
Um, so this is this is like I guess a meme that was made I have i've not vetted this so who knows what's about to happen
Oh is this in watch together or i'm already irritated by this scene because suddenly arthur is like
Cool and confident and doesn't really display his nervous laughter tick for much of it
And sure that's supposed to convey that he's transformed or whatever
But an earlier scene goes out of its way to imply that arthur isn't really mentally ill
My chowals in like a green chemistry kind of sense
Oh he tripped over because there's too many
Poor cheb, oh, no, I love that it zoomed in on his counter face
Oh
Yeah, that makes sense to me yeah, oh god look at the video it recommends yeah, I was gonna say there are two
Any of these weird sad incidents on their own you'd kind of be like, okay
But they pile up so much that it just becomes absurd
Okay
Okay
You need to be a lot quieter you'll be a lot quieter
Oh, that's yeah the hero of efad
Yeah
Oh, I got this someone means i'm gonna collect but uh, that was that was jeb nickels, uh, we
People wanted us to cover jeb nickels for a long time
Um, was it everything you hoped for efad community?
Oh, are you proud? Are you happy now?
Oh
That was something else man mauler, did you get like a dm or something from hannah?
I will look in a sec
Oh, no, wait, I did. I just didn't get any notification of it stupid twitter. Oh, there you go
She didn't know who I was which was the only
Way these were taken
Oh, oh lord. Yeah, because you're an alt right nazi fascist
Sexist misogynist pronounced for she's
she's
All right, well
I'm sad because I used to like her. Oh
Don't worry that means that you that's okay
That means your standards are so much better now she might have a good take at some point
Again, yeah, eventually sure some other century. Maybe statistically not all of your takes can be bad
You say that but uh
You know, I mean it's you know efab
Oh as it's known eff up that is another you know
So, um
All right, I guess
Let's let's check out
This will this will cheer us right up. I'm sure of it. Oh
Oh boy
Oh, wait, I fucked it up
Well, I mean not for the people watching they get to see a lovely shot of good old jeb
One sec
All right, she took it out of me, okay
And I don't appreciate uh such
A horrible experience. I don't deserve it
That was uh
That was rough
Okay, very rough. Yeah back to jeb
Back to jeb
Beautiful beautiful
You're about that
You're sure about that. Are you sure about that?
Please clap. This is this is wonderful and wholesome
Maybe
Like sweet rain
It's there's so many tabs
Yeah, I keep all the memes in the tabs and then at the end of the stream
I deposit them all into efap memes channel so everyone can see them themselves
Gotta make sure the memes are collected, you know, the last thing we need is to fuck that up memes are important
versus jab boy
I mean jab got the same treatment as bidet I would when it was all mentioned so
You know, I think this is depicting the original idea for jab being he burst out in anger whenever she says something wrong
I think that's is that supposed to be like stuffing coming out or is that just part of the picture? That was nothing
He's just part of the picture
Is this detroit become human we shall see when it loads yeah, I don't know
Yes, yes it is there you go she's even got this stupid little circle on her head cold aggressive defensive neutral
All right
General everything she says channel jabok jabok
This is a representation of many of the people we've covered I quite enjoy this iteration if you will
My
This poor woman she couldn't find her themes you need to take pity on her
You know you have your fun and games making fun, but imagine you couldn't find your themes
Yeah, how would you feel don't let your memes be themes?
I like that
My theme there is no theme the theme we're my theme there is no theme
I like this one
Look how happy
There's a picture I don't know I can't tell
It's got to be shopped. Well, that's all that is a fucking way. Oh, yeah. Yes. There wasn't a real picture of
No, no, no, I meant just a picture of him running I didn't know there's an actual picture of him running
He doesn't seem the type does he no he was going to the polls
This is another one of those ones where it's like have you seen efap would you get this it's like what
And into the spider first meme
You
Happen to choke her
Okay, I mean it makes sense logistically yeah, yeah
I get it
Well, hey and a reference to uh, I think it's a reference to the doom video that is still trying to get released
really
Question for reg is this chicken pre-killed or post-kill?
If it's alive, I guess it's pre-killed
I guess that's the question. Is it alive? We need to know well, I guess if it's standing up it's alive
If it's standing it must be alive. Well, it's standing of its own accord. This one was made by jay long bone
Oh
We slap dim cheeks
Oh man
Thank you jay long bone
I want jeb bush to be a permanent meme big and beautiful
You'll live you'll live in harmony here. Jeb. Don't worry. Okay. There's a place for even you jeb. Yeah
even you
Even you have a place here
Ah
All right, yeah, there was more pumpkins somebody else did this
Oh, wow, look at that wait, is what is that in a pumpkin? What is that? Oh, well, actually it was a good point
I'm assuming it's carved regardless
That is that is impressive. I wonder what that's carved out of
Is it maybe like a like a gourd or something? That's very interesting, but that looks really cool
These pumpkin things are very seasonal. I know I like it even though it's christmas now wonderful
It's just a relevant meme in general
A ragged bowen means and then um another bayouin original
Oh
The the stark lack of features on her face is exactly how she gets so eerily accurate
Oh, she's got the voldemort nose going
or lack of
I just like that that's actually added in deliberately just all of the lines to accentuate features are all gone because it's just so exposed
Um
Yeah, that will put us right up to reading some super shorts
Oh boy
Get ready for another six hours. I know people
What about movies like you
We need to regenerate our ability to take bad takes about joker, okay
Yeah, we can only go through so many hours of bad takes it's
Oh, there was one more meme I guess
Oh, yeah, that's where I got the the picture
I saw this on twitter like a week or two ago
I can't believe that somebody snapped that original picture when he I wonder what he was doing
When they snapped that picture
It is such a moment of like what was happening?
Oh
There is a picture, uh, anna did send us a picture of her for uh over twitter
She's wearing some weird purple frog
I'm gonna pull that up for
Maybe if you want to
That big thing it makes me look more embarrassing than already. I just figured you just wanted to see it
Just to see what you look like. Is she carrying a giant?
dildo
What is that wrong wolf? Is that wrong?
It's not that it's wrong. It's just that it's strange
Why do you have this that's europe bad yet?
Why do you have a dildo?
I got those I guess I shouldn't need to ask that it is uh,
They're kind of meant for wait. She's dressed as jar jar. Oh
That's okay, it's even more embarrassing
Oh, hey, you know everyone they can everyone can you know do the thing the things can be do
Do I don't know wolf why I hear a clown
That was oh my god, that was the same video holy shit
Wow
Um
Anyway, yeah, okay. So um first super chat of the night poop. Oh boy
Good starting off good
Uh wolf you're back wolf
Yes, there's gonna be a couple of those love you wolf
Thanks, hi rags, hello wolf
Wow
person
Hi rugs
Hello
Hello my christmas words
Hello my christmas words
The c word hi rags
Mm-hmm and more hello. Hello and wolf
Hi, great to see you back man. How's it going?
Good better
Hello all my n words wolf great to have you back
Hello my n word
Welcome back wolf. We missed you
I wish I could say I missed me, but I I am me so I can't miss me
Well, you missed covering videos on ephabosh only like the one we covered today that was
Wolf the spiders have foretold of this
Well, I suppose the spiders can't lie
I don't know if that's in the war. How would you objectively judge a comedy? Would you ignore the jokes?
Well, uh, you can't just you can't say that something's objectively funny. You can definitely look at the mechanics of a joke
Yeah
I mean you could look at if you wanted to take the movie
And just completely judge it on those objective criteria like every movie could you absolutely could?
Kind of similarly to horror
Yeah, as long as you understood that
um
It was a comedy whose primary purpose was to that sort of thing
And yeah, like if someone was like well, you know
Uh is something objectively scary he'd be like can't really say that but you can talk about the horror's construction
Uh wolf's back that is all but anyways guys kick j also. Hi rags
Hello
Welcome back wolf
Thank you it is
I wish I could say it's welcome to be back but
Jenny was what I returned to I can already see another four five of these
Oh god, you know
When he told me like we're we're gonna be covering jenny nicholson and movie bob. I was like, oh god
Am I gonna make it through movie bob?
Welcome back wolf. Hi wags. Good afternoon. Hello. Hello
Welcome back wolf rhino milk
Whoo-hoo my boa is back hot fucking damn it's a good day. Oh, that's supposed to be boy
Boy I was about to say what's the context of boa? I was gonna say I assumed they'd be talking about snake for a second
They're all like wait, that's yeah, that's the only time I've ever heard of it. Oh boy
Uh, the toxic trinity is finally reunited
We simply create the brood we are not the brood itself
No, actually we're both it and created one does not simply become the toxic brood
Uh, what's metals origin story? I feel like he just showed up on efap one day. Like he was a gay childhood friend of mollus
You know, he kind of kind of is that's it. Yeah. Yeah
Why is gay childhood friend?
What other kind of friend is there exactly?
Yeah, that's pretty much it
Um
Who's your
Might sab gay ball a big bag of bag of cream
Yes, what's the kittiest bagel cream what
I should save that for a bagel cream big hideous bagel cream
It is bagel cream. Just
Just cream cheese then well, obviously a bag of bagel kittiest. Maybe he made cream cheese
Uh, this is for wolf
High wags
Hello
Respond to one of jenny's the last jedi vids before wise of sky raker comes out
Rolka, I guess
Big idiots. Um, I don't know if we'll have time to respond to that before it comes out. But I mean
You know a lot of videos about tlj will be funnier after riser skywalker because they make a couple of like
Inferences that are just like to them and natural for example
You know major leeza was convinced that riser skywalker will be about the romantic relationship developing between ray and kylo and it's just like, uh
That's like
I can't believe people would even think that's the thing that's going to happen
Then again who knows what could happen it's so it makes no sense which means it might be in
My brains will melt and then that's the thing like seeing these videos after um
Um, you know that movie comes out. Could he be even better?
And yeah, jenny niggleson has a lot of people that I follow blocked apparently so
Not a surprise
Oh god, you know what? I haven't checked. I don't know why I didn't check
Have I been blocked by steve shives yet
I
I'm not blocked by steve shives. Wow. No way. Have you followed me? Yeah, like just say just tweet to him and say hello
And see if that does it okay like legit just tweet him and say hello, okay
Hello, ooh
Hello gentlemen, I missed you so much wolf. I hope you're doing better
I am doing better
Uh, there we go. We'll see if he blocks me because of the you will
Broke raise lightsaber joke luke's lightsaber woke anakin's lightsaber bespoke
Childrist the youngling cleaver also high rags and youngling cleaver. Hello
Hello
Wolf convinced me to super chat because he came to efap again. Welcome back
All right
I came up with this. What if ray redeemed palpatine and he helped kill helped her kill kylo
Hong kong heck it all mood play clowns theme also. Hi mom
Well, I don't think that's gonna happen, but it would make as much sense as what's probably going to happen
Welcome back wolf we missed you
Thank you
Hi wolf
Hi also, hi wags
Hello
Hello all my n words. Welcome back wolf. Hope you're feeling better
I am feeling a bit better. Also cooling it now beast stars will be an anime of the year 2019
It may be I don't know from who do you think they'll ever have an oscar for best anime?
They should uh expand
Does anime just mean animation and well, yeah, that's the problem with the oscars. It's just like
Animation is this enormous category
Well, I mean theoretically an anime could
Win an oscar. Oh, yeah, i'm saying a category specifically for anime
uh, that wouldn't really make sense since anime is
Just animation in japanese at least as far as i'm aware
Anime so there you go. Then that's the requirement. I could be wrong about that. I don't speak japanese
Japanese like what what's your what is our word for animation me? Let's just take off the chun
And then
It'll make sense. Yes, it's very efficient
Oh, hi. I missed you
Hello, this is for wolf introducing me to orry
Good to hear you wolf
All right, oh god, she does wear crocs
Uh-oh, oh no
No, she's not wearing them with socks, but she's wearing them in a sonic costume
Oh, hold on i'll save the picture
Uh, oh you can actually like just right click and save them. It's nice twitter. You actually did something not retarded for once
Where'd it go? Did I do it wrong? This is a funny ass picture. Where did you go?
Apparently there's a comment on her video that says
As an actual cloud for hire I feel it's necessary to say I am indeed working for a clown agency
Not only is there such a call for a service that the economy can support it
I actively tried not to be a party clown for years
But I accidentally did one gig and keep picking up gigs because the pay is so ridiculously good
Apparently it's totally a thing. It's like of course. Yeah
Uh
Oh jenny jeb
Jeb nicolson
Yeah, here we go
Feast your eyes and crocs sonic jowls
I don't know what to say. Is there really anything to be said?
Um
They're cars crocs, dude
No
Oh, they are
Oh
You gotta scroll up or put push the picture up a bit so they can see the crocs
Feast your eyes gentlemen
Rock car crocs. Oh no. Oh no
Well, I don't know that's just you know, some sometimes I got nothing
Also, there's another he hasn't blocked me uh, he's he's not doing it
Come on steve. You got to get on your game. Another 3d drooling meme
Another one, let's see
Got another one, let's see. Oh, no, is it gonna go into red?
Oh god, what does it say about epstein on earth skull I could not take it
Stabbed in the back
Oh
My goodness
It was already funny and then it zooms in to look yeah
As soon as it started zooming in on her head. I knew what it was gonna be
Ah
I love it
Uh wolf you can't fap but you can't escape the efap
Do they mean so you can fap but you can't escape the efap? Well, no, it's november. You can't know it's nut in the butt november
That doesn't sound so bad. Well, the the problem is that I can't get that so
Yeah, you got you got a butt
Well, I can't so go outside and yeah, yeah, he caught up your ass. Yeah, they're nuts
I I take off take off the little cap thingy because it's
It's
Yeah, that's a good point then when you get to the end of the month and you have like 30
Just like on your back let's just fire them out like a machine gun
You're gonna it don't feel great but you're gonna give all the squirrels in the neighborhood
What the hell rags
What's wrong with you
That's right, it's called the reverse chipmunk
Uh wolf how do I get your book? I really want to read it it's not available unavailable
You have a gotta make a grinder pro
Well, you see i'm not attractive enough so it's all good well then just find something ugly dude
I have standards drags. I can't
Can't do that. Oh
Wolf oh my gosh, you beautiful massive. I missed you
Sweet also. Hi, right? Well, hello
Good to see you again wolf. Let's get some rhino milk and toast your return
All right
Eat that i'm gonna miss this live. Love you three. No, that was from kibakins the uh, the the efap.me
Um
Caretaker if you will. Does he have a new job?
I'm, not sure
I hope you have a new job
Uh, nice to see you wolf. Hope things are going better for you
Yeah
Younglings are incelialings because the jedi are incels
I
Guess that makes some sense
No, but they voluntarily sell a bit though
Yeah, well
Yeah, this is why I hate wolf the violence in most big cities like chicago and baltimore is isolated in small areas
People aren't dying left and right wolf is racist trash
What?
I'm glad that warren is still around
And i'm glad that rath he's taking
First off I didn't even mention race when I was talking about violence in cities. I didn't either
Like I literally didn't mention race once
And then on top of that I didn't even mention where in big cities
I just said that from and I even specified it was anecdotal when I lived in the detroit area
And I even specified it was the area not downtown
That there was violence
my god
That's like saying you live around euston fuck where's that there'd be any that's half the state
All right, it wouldn't even necessarily matter because gotham isn't a real place but they've given us
Their actual like no, it's real the state of affairs in gotham
You know what I mean?
So if you said unless you can find a city in real life that is representative of gotham then gotham isn't
Just he's unrealistic. That's what that point i'd be like. It doesn't have to be realistic
There's
There is a on the efap.me website built. There's a graph that shows
Every episode and how long it is
Why is this man so dedicated to this he's amazing I like the episode 50 is 29 hours
24 hours show that lasted far longer than 24 hours
Uh glad to see you three back together
Glad to be here
Yes
Hi wolf, john reese davies autographed my book uniquely since it became a trend to draw in it
I can send it to southpaw to show you if you're curious
Ooh, that'd be cool
I would be curious to see that
Oh john reese davies is gonna be in something
What's it gonna be in john
davies
What's he gonna be in because I know I saw him. He's gonna be in something like
coming up I think
That or he was in something that I was disappointed by is he coming from fantastic
Uh, what am I thinking of someone's gotta wait there's three people in chat who've given different answers for what gotham is
Gotham is new jersey
Gotham is jersey city
It's clearly chicago if you mention the batwoman new jersey and is based on camden and bridgeton
New jersey
Yeah, maybe yeah. Well what i'm saying it can be based. That's fine. I'm saying that it's it doesn't it doesn't have to be
One-to-one with anything. Oh, right. He's gonna be in uh, he's gonna be in that game that will never come out star citizen
All right
like mark camel
Yeah, oh, yeah gotham. Yeah, sorry gotham is chicago according to batwoman. So
Uh, he he small gay weenus. You have rags yoda
Freudegias Freud Freud giddi
god damn it
Freud
giddias
Freud giddias baguins. There we go
Freudegidias baguins
Wolf you beautiful man. Glad to see you
Woohoo, I was just gonna watch this on moolah, but then I saw wolf in the thumbnail now i'm here. Missed you man
I'm so gad to see ball. Sorry. I'm so gad to see you again wolf
so
Gad yep, dad. That's like glad times too
That's true
I was gonna ask if that means like i'm so glad to see you or if you meant to say i'm so gay to see you
Nah, less letters mean each letter's worth more
Mm-hmm. Hmm. He knew that wolf. That's true
Um
Um, i'm gonna i'm gonna quickly go through all of the streamlabs ones so I don't miss them
uh
So you tell me wolf comes back after long hiatus which just so happens to correspond with a canine hero taking out
bagdaddy likely story
um
Well, you know, you know, maybe maybe I was the one that killed
Who are we talking about? Are we talking about the isis guy? Yes
Yeah, uh, yeah, that was me trump gave me the medal. Yeah
All right, that's how I read the full things okay
I guess i'm missed one
My god, this is so confusing
Fucking streamlabs the way they format all of this. Um
on a side note, um
When we got to the end where the t-800 was telling john that he needs to go for his
Uh john's safety I was immediately crushed inside and I realized that due to dark fate john dies because he destroys himself
he said his mission was
Complete but he was so wrong. Oh, yeah, so
The t-800 killing himself at the end of t2 is now negated entirely like it's almost a really dumb ass decision
Just just for you two to know like the narrative goes that skynet sent way more than just the t-1000
They sent like several t-800s as well as the t-1000 and one of them gets lucky basically
oh
So when on he is like I need to be destroyed too because you know, that's when the threat is over
It's like but dude, there's like a whole bunch of okay. No, it's just wrong. He was wrong
They should have kept him alive so he could keep defending him
Uh, this one I can't read out
Because they just spoil a really significant thing in buffy while saying it's a really good thing. I agree
Very good thing the season seven thing
So it's good shit
Um
I remember more saying he had a problem with bloodborne story and now i'm wondering if it's the same problem I have which is how
Vague and insubstantial everything is even compared to dark souls or what I remember about it. Anyway
I'd have to replay it. I can't remember what specific issues I had with the story
I don't know if I remember tackling the story that much as other stuff, but yeah
What is you guys's favorite b-movie horror flick? Mine's a tie between evil dead 2 and dog soldiers
B-movie horror
Yeah, um, I mean those two is 20 is
28 days later is too
It's too good for b right? Or is i'm not actually sure I'd have that one's probably straddling the line. I think it's pretty low budget
If I can use that as an answer I will um, if not my favorite
Sorry, you go ahead
Yeah, I'd have to think key. Yeah, you go ahead i'm i'm thinking teeth
The movie's hilarious
Uh, yeah, i'd be movie horror i'd happily go with dark soldiers. It's good shit
Uh, poor jenny consistently has the weakest takes on just about everything
It makes me rage like nothing else would rather watch 10 hours of cinema Roberto, which is saying a lot
Good to see you back wolf. Also, hi wags
Hello
Oh the bat I completely that's the one where the dude turns into a giant bat
That's an idiot
No, no, there's a movie called the bat
It's been a long time since I saw I think the plot was something to the effect of like some dude and his wife
Are like on a cave tour and then they go off
Away from the tour down another cave to have sex and then he gets bit by a bat
And then he turns into a bat person and starts killing people
Movie, I think I know about that movie. Oh, that's been a long
I take it back. The bat is my favorite. Do we need to remember laughing so hard? Is this a movie that should be efap?
Only if i'm there
I'm, i'm, okay with that. Uh
I wanted to show this because I think it's amusing
I used to think these videos were a tragedy now. I realized they were going
to be a tragedy
And yeah, obviously the standard applies she could talk about this with us here
But there's just no fucking way she'll ever do that
That's that's the only reason why we probably haven't mentioned it up to this point. Jenny, you're welcome to come on here
But you're not going to so it's it's fine
Besides we're we're dude bros. Don't waste your time on dude bros
Uh talked with a lift engineer. Remember the lift scene in batwoman episode three?
It's obviously very unrealistic if all wires are cut off a pulley will start spinning
And activate the braking system on the car unless the lift was designed in the 19th century
The only thing you can conclude is that someone designed it for him
And for some reason they were okay with designing an app for him too that activates them
This person must be paid a lot something that they aren't for it to be the thing it needs to be
Um, i'm getting some irresponsibly vague amateur allure vibes from the lighting on this video
There's no cock like horse cock. Hello waggers. Hello. Oh god. So as far as I know that's true
Yeah, I wouldn't i'm not going to deny that one. I think that yeah
I think that's uh, I think it's true. Yeah
Uh
How is wolf not blocked by steve shives I don't even post on twitter and i'm blocked I know i'm disappointed
Give it time for me because for me maybe because he's maybe maybe doing something
I had to take a nap but that I woke up from the nap. I checked and blocked so for sure that the people I followed
Would have gotten me blocked, but probably I don't know
Maybe they he removed those people for his block list
I don't know because I used to be the last time I was on twitter. I was definitely blocked from him, but now
Give it time
He realized it's like a it's like a rite of passage to be blocked by steve shives
If you aren't blocked by steve shives, you fucked up
The act man is blocked by steve shives and he's like one of the most apolitical youtubers i've ever seen
But nothing you mean he's a nazi
I guess so i'm pretty sure that's how it works. If you don't take a stance, that means you've taken a stance
Am I blocked by star wars explained? That's star wars. Oh, that'll be a good one to check actually. Yeah, we'll see
No, woof gotta change that
I don't like the last jedi
You're gonna do at star wars explained. Yeah, I just sent it to him. Yeah
I need to be blocked by all the by all the people I need to be blocked by I guess
Wolf deserves a pizza with extra pineapple after reminding me about guardians of ghoul
Also shout out to evan munro. Art is not subjective. We need more youtubers like mr. Munro and less like jeb nickels
Um, yeah, I agreed. Um, i've seen that video. It's quite good. Uh,
I will i'm thinking about finding a way to possibly feature it i'm not sure yet
But um, it'll be possibly the first video
We just watch right the way through and then recommend the channel so that it gets some traction in some way shape or form but um
The way i'm going to line it up is with other videos that are thematically relevant
Yeah, I went there
I went there
I mentioned themes
By the way, that woman is whiter than anne colter
Say what?
What's that?
Uh, it ended with saying that woman is whiter than anne colter
That's pretty white
All right. She is very pale though. I want how much of that how I don't know
Scanning how much is freaking it's not at this point. It's not it's not makeup. It's icing
Icing
Uh, do you hate women? Is that is that what's happening right now? That's it. Yeah
Um, well i've been discovered
Welcome back wolf. Your fellow twisted shells of men have missed you
twisted
twisted shells of men
He's twisted. Well, what about twisted shelves of women? No, no
Twisted shells of dude bros
Uh wolf, did you hear about peter jackson releasing a third cut of lord of the rings for the 20th anniversary of the first film?
Ooh, yeah. Well, yeah, there there's a there's infamously a lot of that even more that was cut from the extended editions that
uh
I mean there was one scene. I don't think it was ever finished though with um
What's her name?
aowin aowin aowin. Yeah, she was in the caves of uh
Beneath helms deep fighting some orcs glittering caves. Yeah. Yeah
Okay
Yeah, I I don't I don't know too much about the other stuff, but that'd be that'd be interesting to check out
I'm, not sure how
How uh good it would be or how much it would really add?
But I mean just because I love the movie so much i'd probably check it out. Anyway
Yeah, I mean i'll definitely check that out if that happens
Uh, howdy everybody. I hope everybody's doing great today
Yeah, things are going pretty well. It's going good. I mean, you know
Do jeb nichols tried and failed to defeat us
You know, I can say that 100%
Um more I love buffy also recently been rewatching my favorite episodes favorite villain by the way and buffy mine is the mayor
He's so great
um
Mine's a toss-up
But I typically end up going with the mayor because there's a lot to say about the other candidate
Which i'm gonna try and remain vague on but season two
uh evil
Which I assume would be wolf's favorite as well
Uh, he's too good. He's
He is pretty good. The ending of season two is like one of the best endings to a season i've ever seen
That is really good. It is really good. Yeah
I love it
Watching that season again or at least the the few episodes we choose chose to see from that season was
Oh, that was good. It's good
That's my favorite
Hey, what would you guys plan to tackle the mandalorian the same way as batwoman with efap minis?
So assuming mandalorian is good or at least okay
There's a good chance that doesn't function in the efap mini format of us
Essentially reacting and super cutting all these fun little things and then talking about the thing
however
It might
There's a chance we'll give it a shot
Uh, no guarantees though
And obviously if anyone was like hey if batwoman was fun to do that with try and then we're like, I don't know
I don't know if we're gonna like
Make a whole thing where we have to watch another tv show the second we run out of batwoman or anything that that just evolved
It was the trailer and then episode one and then we're like episode two's out and it was just a schism
We're like, oh my god
And it's just turned into this thing. I don't understand it really myself
Batwoman is amazing. Everyone should watch it. That's that's my conclusion
Batwoman is magical
Good to hear from you wolf. I heard some of what happened. I hope you recover. Thank you for the stream mauler
um
Batwoman is awful for a better joker like character watch psychopath season one
Do you mean better than the joker film or
I
Could just watch joker again. Yeah, I was gonna say watch both. I don't know. I've heard good things about psychopaths, but I don't uh
Haven't seen it. That's an animu
Wolf you're back peter parker voice pizza time
It's peter time not until you fix this goddamn door
Great to see wolf. Have a great show you massives. Thank you
Stream oh wow, it's even worse than the leaks. We're implying it would be would be fun to go for it
Also, hi wogs and ralph
Hello
wogs and ralph
Why do they spell
It's it's an a instead of an oh, it'd be ralph. But all right
Uh, i'm sorry, but buffy is a lame name for a vampire
And um, yeah, I agree with that statement
Welcome back wolf. I hope you're doing well
Yeah, good to see you wolf maul a quick suggestion slash request the dragon demands is a game of thrones youtuber
Who does long man bads has given you a shout out before you two should stream together
He was early to the dan and dave criticism
Uh, it's not out of the cards. Honestly, uh, uh
It's tough to figure out where and when to get it like we were gonna have a guest today
But I decided that I mean it's funny how we've gone this long on one video with just the three of us. So
It's it's always difficult to figure out what's best in terms of balance and when to bring people on but um
perhaps in the future
Uh, did you hear about jon boyega's tweet about how anakin skywalker is a better powerful jedi than ray and kylo ren
Oh, I gotta look this up now I was gonna say what's the context there is it playful
How long ago was that made
Oh, oh I see it
Okay, so there's this tweet that says rise of skywalker prequel proves ray is a better jedi than anakin or luke and he responded saying
I'm, sorry guys, but anakin slapping all of us in a pit of lava including kylo with a bunch of laughing faces
Oh, he actually did
Like he's saying that anakin would destroy all of them
Jay even responded to it. Oh
What do you say?
Thank you. John. You're a treasure
Yeah, he's literally saying that yeah, anakin would defeat all of them
John boyega's woke or woke based woke
Well
That's the whole complicated thing. Yeah
Didn't even say he's gonna say some stuff once all the films are over and done with the people were like hoping it would reveal
He's also said other things that are retarded as well. So I don't know like we'll have to see I don't know
I kind of want to follow him now just because he said this
I have respect for you. I didn't have before john
Um, here's another bs take on joker check out the youtube channel. What is antilogic?
Um, I think someone sent that one to me i'll have to have a look what is antilogic
Yeah, that's like the guy well the that's the channel I think that made the video
Okay, um wolf my wife and I effed aquaman over three days and loved it like the room of superhero movies glad you're back
Hi rags
Why didn't you mention you had such a special guest the one and only rags also. Hi wolf. Oh
Hi
Morley your love for simpsons confirms you're a man of high intellect. What's your favorite trios of horror episode and wolf? Welcome back
so, uh
Probably the one where homo time travels with the toaster
The three stories in that one are fantastic. I also love the um, the trilogy of episodes where willie keeps getting killed
um
The nightmare on elm street one
Uh is a is another episode that I love with obviously willie again being
That I mean, but i'm just thinking about one particular joke
I was just trying to find a way to get in there
But um, I don't know if you guys did you guys watch old simpsons episodes much at all or no ones?
so
um
Willy the um, the janitor he's scottish. He uh
He's he's in the boiler room
and um
He put up there's a thermostat and he put up a sign saying do not touch and then dash
And then willie because he wrote it and homa sees it goes do not touch willie good advice
These tids the thermologist
They've sat all the way up to follow it burns willie alive. It's
It's a great joke and the fact that you don't appreciate it is uh makes you bad people. Just saying
Before the next super chat. I saw ra ask if
The tweet meant more like was meant more to insult anakin than the others and I looked in the comments
Of the tweet and he responds to another person saying deliberately mate. He will look
Dat ass
So he's he's clearly
Siding with anakin over ray
Good
Even though the film's probably won't but good
Yeah, at least someone on the sets like yeah. Yeah
She's not very good
thoughts on avatar
Yeah, it was fine. Which avatar are we talking about? Well, i'm assuming you saw it about the james camerawans. It's just avatar
meh
I think some people get a little hyperbolic and calling it like a really horrible awful and granted. I haven't seen it in years
Maybe i'm forgetting parts of it. I just remember it being mediocre
It's like a bad knockoff of dances with wolves
Definitely extremely overrated
Mm-hmm
The deleted scenes make the humans seem in the right. It was already hard to support a human to encode who prefers extinction
Fair enough. I never saw the deleted scenes. Yeah, I didn't um
Hi wolf, hope you're feeling better dude and hi wags
Hello
Howdy partner. I'm a like what you do the fairy and the froofy mutter doing here
Yeah
Okay, oh, sorry i'm a like what you the fairy and the froofy mutter doing here rather than yeah, all right
Um not who I am underneath but what I woke defines me
I'm assuming that's for batwoman
Uh, have y'all heard about how dnd admitted?
They didn't really have any plans for game of thrones and were completely inexperienced about making a show and they banked on hbo's ignorance
They're such massive
I heard about that. Yeah, yeah the comment where they're likely trying to make it more accessible for mothers and
NFL players or something. It was like we really weird or nfl fans ever be like what?
Okay
And that they wanted to downplay all the fantasy elements for that reason
This is a whole slew of quotes that are just like what are you guys doing?
Saying this stuff is oh, no
Um
Welcome back wolf
Thank you glad to see you back wolf. Have you guys seen the george lucas reacts to rise of skywalker deep fake?
If not, i'd love to see a reaction video
I have not seen that
I've heard of it, but I haven't seen it
Uh, in the meantime if you haven't seen our reaction
then
Don't let's cancer wolf. So happy you're here
Welcome back wallof started watching the last airbender again. It's been a great day. Thoughts on joker
Well, I mean throw this whole video basically loved it
Uh, also high ragalds and molesbury. Hello. I bought berry. I recently bought all of the neil brean films
I can't recommend them enough
agreed
top quality cinema
Uh, young. Yeah said death stranding is amazing. It's not
Is he played it well when it comes out to p.c. I will review it. Oh, is it actually out now?
I think so
Wow
All right. I I have absolutely no interest in it whatsoever. I look forward to once everyone's completed it and they still say
I don't know what this is
Still don't understand what the hell just happened
But now it's like what three years ago and people still don't get what it's even supposed to be
well
Uh, jordan peterson to debate jake skywalker
I'd watch it
Use this to plant some trees
Sure, plant some efap trees
Finally the efap council is complete
Yes
Welcome back wolf. Hi to all you toxic brood
Hello
Hello
I'm sick and wolf's return has made me feel better. No
Sweet good to see you back wolf
Mm-hmm glad to see you wolf. Are you back for good?
Uh
Around
It's around. Yeah, and for those I guess because uh hours past the audience cycles there is a link
To the channel wolf is currently, uh running in the description. There is a video there and there will be another one
Once he's able to sort out uh
An upload. Yeah, it will be up tonight
The render is almost complete
Um, I saw wolf and I smashed my phone hitting the live
All right. Oh
Break her phones hearing wolf's voice has made my weekend significantly better. Missed you my man
Thank you misa thinking wese being friends. I love listening to you beautiful guys
By the way, can we have the spider come back to the chat for christmas?
Um, what's the spider?
No, wouldn't it be fast on the chat at that point?
What if we have like one of the spiders from uh, the song of ice and fire where the santa had an ice spider
Yeah
Um, I don't know maybe I don't know it has to be christmas themed a spider's christmas themed
I don't know. I know spiders the efap themed but
You know, are you saying that spiders can't celebrate christmas?
No, I would never ever say that are you are you culturally insensitive? Are you are you?
Pretty sure that's not what he's trying to say. Yeah, man. Geez. Well clearly clearly they can't celebrate
Shouldn't take their medication
Is that the theme of the movie?
Sometimes spiders can be good christians too or they could be jews
Angry jews? No, they can't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no spiders can be angry jews
Look judaism does not judaitism doesn't exist in the spider
cinematic universe
Judaism yeah, I agree
Whoa, hope you're doing well my dude
Better at least
Allegedly. Uh, this one just says everyone disliked that so I can only assume this is the point where we'd started the video
Probably it could be that could be appropriate for many many points of the video
Unironically, there is a character who can see the future in spider-man. I think her name was madam webb or spider or something
Also, hi wolf. Mr. Man. I hope you're doing better. Her name was spider or something
Uh, hi wolf
Hi
Have some money my fellow irredeemable twisted shells of bed
Well
Fucking at this point
Irredeemable irredeemable. What are you gonna do?
It's actually not so bad being a twisted shell because you couldn't store stuff inside yourself. There's lots of space. That's true
It's handy. Yes, the shell is twisted. That doesn't mean you can't put anything in there
I mean twist ties
Mm-hmm croissants. We like those because they're like twisted wolf thoughts on netflix. What's on the dark crystal series
I haven't watched it yet
I rewatched the dark crystal movie in preparation for it and then promptly forgot to actually pay attention to that's actually on our
to-do list
We're we're getting bring me it bring me in on it. Well, that's that's our to-do list
We we're currently going through the encore. That'll be done very soon now because you know, i'm not oh, you mean
Oh, okay. I did. I thought you might like
It's in the specific
No, no pueden pants up por eso no saben ks malo
american please
In the future wait is the future streaming or female also hi y'all
Hello, I think the future is obviously female and streaming
Greetings massives pleased to see wolf. That was from darth maul
I don't know you watched the show. That's pretty cool
Yeah, and i'm sorry for saying that you're a worthless character and that you aren't actually as cool as you
seem to
Yeah, your lightsaber is really the only good part about you, but yeah
Uh, what is your dream halloween costume time money time and money aren't factors
A fully-functioning halloween costume. Yeah
Fully functioning iron man suit done
Um
At that point is it a costume if it's fully functioning man, no time will buddy restraints
I think it has to be restrained to the definition of costume
Um
I mean, what about my cosplayers who goes like to the furthest edges that but iron man
Huh well obviously because i'm a dog, um
You're gonna there are not as many there are not as many uh dog costumes because we are perfect as we are
um
I would like um, I like the outfit that d dog has in middle gear solid five
Or he's got like the visor and the carry handle on him
Yeah, that sort of thing I think that's cool
But I like those like tactical
Things that they give to dogs that have a handle up top and the pouches and stuff and I think those are
I want to be apa bend for halloween
I want to be apa bend
What with your blue blue hat? I don't know. I was just looking at twitter and he was the one at the top of my feed
So I was like, okay
I mean i'd like to see it
Wow, we could do the thing we that they didn't face off
To just swap her faces and
paint the rest of her bodies the
respective skin tones
I can do my terrible impression of his accent
It'll work
Oh
There's a subreddit for batwoman
Do they like it?
Oh my goodness. Is there a subreddit for batwoman?
I cannot wait to see what it is that they say about this
I'm googling immediately
Here's here's a link for you folks
What if they say something about
These hateful men, all right, uh last episode discussion
Crows are lousy bodyguards. So the lipstick comes off with the mask
Uh, these aren't looking too too nice
If you look at the discussion for the episodes they're quite positive
I like I can't this was what this is one of the top. It's only got 12 points made five days ago
I like seeing her make mistakes. There is definitely room to grow
The the plot confirmed she can't fuck up. Just tell me what mistake she made i'm curious
Um
Oh my god, you can't force people to work for you
there's a
There's a meme on the on your subreddit
It's called the the girl with the jeb tattoo
What a top comment top top posts on the subreddit for episode four. I like their chemistry. I really do
Okay, well
I mean good work mary
It's fine lol mary thought she was going to execute him
Uh, damn this show really does like to reveal things right away, doesn't
Apparently they shat on anna there they do get that they're enjoying batwoman and ironically, right?
Are they aware of that?
I don't know like one of that one. He's like, oh no, she planted the skull fragments exclamation mark
Like people people are like invested in this
Like and I I am because it's terrible and I never wanted to end and I never went terrible things
It's not this bad to go away because I want to be able to laugh at them forever
Um
It's a good comment plot twist. The phone call was bruce wayne asking jacob how gotham city is
That actually is funny
I just
I was just a little bit floored by the fact that there's a community like of course there is there's got to be but wow
You poor reagan, I hope we see her again if we don't see her again we riot oh my god
I hope she comes back. I liked her me too. They were cute together
Like
Kate got busted with a bold face lie like fucking hell
These people have the lowest standards in the world these people would these people probably take a shit
And then stare at the flush toilet like it's alien space technology from the future
By the way next time you take a shit turn around and give it a look that's how big of a dick you can take
at least
at least
I'm curious that people
Yeah, now next time you're gonna be like oh man
You want me to find like um the thread on that star wars gill from that subreddit?
Um, if one of you guys want to link me on twitter, I'll have a look at it
But I can't seem to find it with like basic google searches
I'm so sorry for that community
But they're happy with however, I would be curious what they didn't like and why
Just being able to hear their justification would just be wild to me
All right, yeah, uh
I'll be i'm on i'm seeing twitter notifications. So if someone finds it, let me know i'm curious to see if
like if they're like
Knit picking something like that. I don't know
All right wolf you're here I hate that I can't follow live I have to work on sunday
Hope you're doing well. Uh, when could I grab a copy of your book?
Don't know rag still pooping with my door open waiting for you to hold my hand
I don't know how to react. Thank me
I don't know. I
Why why are you people the way you are?
I have discussion with someone and maybe you guys can chime in i'll get your opinion here
Maybe chak can help out too. I'd be curious what people think. All right
Would you rather have someone walk in walk in on you mid shit or while you are masturbating?
That depends on who it is
I think mid shit every scenario for me
Is
Am I related to the person
Because then it's definitely mid shit
I don't I don't know
I don't know. Um, I guess who it is. Um, I guess who it is. Okay, let's do three tiers
Let's do your parents
Let's do significant other and let's do friends
And parents okay
Okay, let's yeah, we'll do one at a time i'll add another one of your parents should be included as well
Yeah, and president trump. So parents would you rather have your parents walk in?
Why so ross says he's eating dinner. He's like, well, this is relevant to that. Yeah, this is relevant
So yeah, that's relevant to that. So your parents which one?
mid shit
I'd say pooping. Yeah
I'd say i'd rather have my parents walk in
Joaquin then again, I do want to make them proud but
mid poo
For my parents. I assume maulers the same way
Oh, well I said in every scenario, I don't know the scenario where i'd want to be every all right. All right. All right. Um
So next up is your significant other
Either your spouse boyfriend girlfriend, whatever it is
Hmm that one that i'm not bothered by either either
I mean I i'm assuming i'm with this person because they're aware that I take poops and then I also masturbate
So i'm okay with it either way
I'm jerking it
Me too
I would rather them walk into me jerking because we fuck anyway
So if they see me jerking it that might be like, oh so you're like i'm here, you know, then we get into it
I'm like does that might lead to something nice? But yeah, absolutely. It's not like oh,
Let me help you. Let me help you squeeze that one out. It could be stuck in trudways
Um, so third just friends just like rent like a friend you have over at your house. Just company guests
Oh, that's definitely the poopins
I think it'll be pooping for that one, too
I think that'd be out here for pooping because then they'd be like, oh he jerks off while we're over here. That's
Um, yeah pooping for that one
Um
and fourth total strangers
Oh, I thought it was supposed to be trump. Oh, we'll get to trump
total
Total strangers. Yeah poopins
Yeah pooping. All right
And uh president trump if he walked in on you know, jerking it
What about you mauler?
I wanted to see the kind of load I could drop
I I just want him to know that's how I feel about him
You'd come to him. Yeah
I feel very deeply about our presence guys i'd be getting closer and closer and then trump walks in we lock eyes and then
And the magic happens boom fantastic beasts
So hashtag fat for trump
Let's make it happen. I like this collapse in the in the chat
And then trump just gives me this like he just fucking stepped off of air force
Uh, no, no, he gives the double thumbs up. Yeah, he's gotta give the double thumbs up. Yeah
He needs to make like three or four tweets about how tremendous it was tremendous and it was
The fight is you you wouldn't believe it. We have the fight here America. We have the fight is peters
Um, yeah, the second half of this was also how do you refer to yourself?
How often do you refer to yourself in your dog persona persona?
How often yeah, I don't know once I will say this once or twice in real life I will almost say it
I'll almost say rags instead of
My real name every once in a while just because i'm used to referring it so much
I think it's reasonable. Uh, I like the nest I was gil says this is the total boys being boys called. I was like, yes
pooping in front of president trump
Work for women hashtag
You guys you could ask this to any lady be like, all right
You just want to be shoving your fingers up there and digging for gold or you want to be just dropping a big old
Drop in the gold pickle. I have to do the silence of the lamb scene on trump
Oh no
Anyway miggens, I guess someone apparently sent the thread to your twitter. I've got nothing on twitter yet
Must be the other other molar unless they send it to you wolf. Um, I don't know
Uh
Yeah, I didn't get anything unless they sent it to me in which case I must say dm that no. No didn't get anything
Uh wolf, I just started shaving my head and I found a dent. What should I do?
Hold on a dent
Uh
I found
Jabbing that where's the fence located that tweet you said to dad with thrusts
219 likes right out
All the comments on it is total the different variations of total
If you mean there's like a kind of divot at the back of your skull
And as far as i'm aware, that's pretty normal in which case
I don't know
Unless you mean a different dent
Uh, because I mean I know at the back of my head. There's like a little divot, but i'm pretty sure that's just
Normal skull shit with this podcast get political
It's because I want the commander and fucking chief to watch me ejaculate
Totally different also salutations rag is
Oh, hello salutations to you. Hey guys
Hello
Also mola, what are your plans for batwoman when it joins the crossover with the other cwdc shows seeing as the story is spread out
over five shows
Me and rags discuss this we're gonna go in blind as hell with just batwoman is our bay
She's our girl
We're gonna follow we're gonna root for batwoman
Sort of kind of coming. We don't want anything bad to happen because if something bad happens to her then that
We're gonna watch it without knowing fuck all about all the other people and it'll be a disaster and i'll love it
We want to see which among them is the most perfect
Mm-hmm
Also, hi rags
Hello
uh
Tisms in the net say the joker glorifies violence. How can a show or a movie glorify violence?
Does the thing do it die hard? What movie does it?
That's complicated
Glorifies it though
Well, this is the thing joker certainly doesn't uh, is there a film that glorifies violence?
I guess the argument would be like portraying the violence to be a good and cool slash honorable right thing
Honorable and good sure
Glorious glorify it. I mean there are plenty movies about well when you say glorify
There's definitely movies that like make it look kind of badass like the first john wick but
I don't think
Glorifies the correct word
It's a very complicated generally. Yeah
And there's always a context for that sort of thing, you know
Because when I think glorify I think more like
This is great. This is something you should do like this is awesome, right?
Kind of like saving private ryan
Doesn't glorify violence. Yeah, it more glorifies like the the surfing your country, you know
Yeah, it's not really the it doesn't really glorify the killing other people part though
yeah, I mean there's there's many many examples of
you know how it's a very noble thing to
You know to to have a just cause to fight for
And to make sacrifices and to do tough stuff for you know for the
idea of good
Yeah, it's usually not like the violence itself. That's portrayed as like
The the righteous thing it's more like the the reason behind the violence
Yeah, I mean
Normally when there's like a bad person doing violence
It's pretty clearly bad and normally in something when a good person does violence. There's a reason for it
I'm sure there's examples
but none really come to mind
It's something you hear more in video games now
Um, probably because there's a someone said maybe gladiator
Sure, but again
But there's like the context of like yeah, I mean gladiator. He was forced to uh, I mean he was enslaved and
Thrust into that position and he used that position to get closer. You know, like we don't have they still make it as far as I know
It depends on your yeah, i'm not denying. It's cool
I mean like I don't know about the glorifying the violence. I mean glorifying it in the context of that culture
I yeah, I guess but I mean, it's obvious that the colosseum. Well, that's the thing you you got that's a question
You're like, what do you mean glorify?
In ancient roman culture then? Yeah, it was definitely glorified but
nowadays no
Yeah, um, um
maybe maybe the beginning
I mean they they certainly
portrayed in the film the glorification but only in the context of
That culture they weren't the film itself wasn't like saying oh violence good. Yeah
Um, that was more just the feeling of the actual well
Yeah, because when you talk about movies like like patriot, for example, you know, we're we're suck
We're sucks a lot, but there are noble causes to fight for and well, how about this one?
Uh loaf said captain marvel cheerfully killing hundreds of thousands of kree glorifies violence. Oh
Yeah, it actually oh that's right. We were thinking about good movies
Oh, that was that's that's where we fucked up
Um, I mean
batwoman
Glorifies violence kate assaults luke the first two times that she sees him unprovoked
Oh my goodness, it's all the shitty things that they say we are amazing for wamans that are the ones that glorify violence
Captain like captain marvel assaulting the dawn
Dad, that's glorifying violence
Yeah, people people like fuck. Yeah. Oh my goodness we found oh
You know when it comes to like the glorifying violence part
I feel like her opinion also might be color just because media is like this film glorifies violence and they say it in a fashion of like
Trying to say that the film is trying to say we should
Be violent in our society or we should like kill people. We don't like there are
Moments with violence will be something you need to commit to. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Well need
as
Like it pertains to defending yourself or someone, you know, that's different from like
Going out and trying to kill somebody because you feel like it. Yeah
It depends on how you define it
We got to talk about like what you mean by glorified
Does it are you talking about in the context of the film's narrative and world and characters or are we talking about?
The film's message to the audience
so there's because the media definitely tries to push it as like the message of the film is to kill people you don't like or to
uh
The insult or whatever
Some chat suggestions here. We'll go down the couple that I see does tom and jerry glorify violence
Um
A lot of the time jerry's violence upon
Tom is defensive, right? Well, that's the thing. It's it's it's slapstick comedic violence with no permanent repercussions
So
violence in a in a way
But not I don't think not in the spirit that it was asked, but that's an interesting question. I don't think
I think by technicality but not in the principle of the question. Sure
um next time we have um
uh lay a slapping poe
We deserved it because he got everybody killed right
Yeah, black panther glorifies violence given they are a society that governs through trial by combat certainly interesting
Not that's actually not a not a bad point
yeah, um
Lefty here
Yeah, I think that's interesting black hawk down
But they were fighting. I don't think so. I don't think that was a glorifying violence
And that's horrific in that film
Yeah
Let's see, um, just looking through
uh
Let's see that the judge dread the newest one
Well, those are those are very clearly evil drug a drug cartel essentially terrorizing people under in a world
We're breaking the law. You can he's judge jury and execution all in one, isn't he?
Yeah, um
That I would like to watch that movie again, actually
Predators their society glorifies violence, uh sure
Against the artistic someone said Wakanda is pacifist is like
I said don't pacifist across your fucking face
uh, but I
Yeah, their society's leader is governed. Uh, it is chosen through trial by combat and
They that's the thing they're pacifist up until the point before that where they weren't
Let's see, what do we got? Um, oh what about pokemon?
Oh
That's that's the whole thing backops. The line does not glorify violence
Caddyshack glorifies violence against gophers
Expect ops is like
That game tries to fuck with your head with morality and shit. That's
That's really not glorifying the violence. That's trying to use it in such a way that
Like actually makes the violence
matter
Some people are saying like hostile and saw he's like no, no, no, no
Does raw glorify roof violence
Oh wait raw can answer that death wish
Um
Like you know that it's bad what they're doing, but you also accept that it's a it's a movie and I think that
if it's accepted that what they're doing is bad, it's like
Flesh and blood or mad max and a lot of stuff like that where
um
They glorify all violence, of course, you know what a dragon ball z
Postal one two and four. Oh, does paul blurt mall cop for glory?
Uh, I'm gonna say yes just for the mean value a couple people have said 300
It's been a while since i've seen it
They are defending their country from foreign invaders who are bad men
Um, let me see we have
That's that there was one
Let's see rain of fire was a glorification of dragons or dragon killing rather
Okay, this is actually interesting the deadliest warrior tv show
That is completely yeah because that removes itself entirely from
You know, there's no context to it. It's just purely the combat aspect. Isn't the justification just to see
Which of these, you know classes
Yeah
Which of these warriors would win and they're they do a lot of effect of ancient weapons on bodies and what wounds it would cause
And how deadly they are
So I could see the argument though if anything it tells us that these weapons are gonna fuck you up
Oh, someone said water shit down
Uh, I if you mean the book or the
movie
I haven't read or watched it. So I can't say anything. I've read the book. I have I haven't watched the movie but i've seen
I I get I get what it's about
Yeah, I know what it's about I just haven't seen it's in other context some say that the war the warriors glorifies gang violence
Um
Someone's saying ufc, but I don't agree. That's definitely a sport and there's there's sportsmanship involved in that
I'm gonna be right back. I'm gonna go pee. Yeah
It glorifies combat arts
I agree with that
The rebels and the brutality and is biased in favor of the greeks. Uh, well that battle was biased in the favor of the greeks
but
I I see I I could see what you mean by saying it it it makes it really
Stylish and cool if that's the criteria we use for
Whether it glorifies it or not
Um, sure, but then again a realistic depiction of violence might be cool to a lot of people cool is subjective
Um, you could use an attempt to make it cool
This is a good question
Um clockwork orange. No, I don't think clockwork orange glorifies violence
Um red dawn
Uh, yeah sort of but like, you know communist invaders
Yeah, I mean they're fighting back to free their country not like
Killing for the sake of like, yeah, this is awesome
Uh
Starship troopers already got fingered does
I don't know if starship troopers glorifies violence sort of I mean if anything it mocks the idea that violence is glorified
um
Because yeah, it's pretty grisly
That movie certainly
Someone points out like uh, what kind of violence are we talking about?
Like is it sadistic or is it patriotic or defensive because then the question changes
expendables I think uh
I think expendables would fit the bill because it's just that movie is just for old actors to get together to be violent
I'm fine with that, but I got a lot of uh
Because violence is fucking cool
Oh shit, like the hateful a jango unchained
Yeah, probably you could probably the final destination definitely
Let me see something further input on clockwork orange. No, I don't think clockwork orange glorifies violence at all
Um, so Alex the large is is very much depicted as
A bad person when he does those things
um
It's presented and it I don't know if you think that that kind of violence is portrayed as being cool or stylish
I don't think it is
He's clearly bad
Um
In no, I everyone's on board with him getting what he does
Um in that show he's the protagonist he's not the hero
Uh, let me see
I'm, just looking through someone's name fight club
Um, the fight club's an odd one because they have rules for fight club
This is probably heresy I actually haven't seen fight club
Yeah, it's it's been a long time since i've seen it, but I don't think they
Glorify it. I think the reason that they have it isn't to glorify violence, but like to use it as an outlet for
raw aggression and
Stuff like that. I I I haven't seen it in a while. I may be wrong
um
Let's see
Um home alone, uh kind of
Uh, he is defending himself against home invaders
Um, and there are no realistic consequences for the the comedic violence that happened to him or them. So
I'm, sorry. What uh, one word we were talking about
Which uh home alone
Oh
Can we ever really?
Count well, you know, it is violent
It's kind of comedic
You know, I think I think maybe the difference between when they say it glorifies violence
Maybe it's like violence for the sake of itself is good
um
Or that because here's the thing if people say well, it's trying to make violence cool is like first off violence can be cool
um
Also, there's nothing really it
It's no less violent whether or not it's stylized or more grounded. I guess. Um
Give or take, you know both can be both can be very
You know grisly or whatever
um
So I but
Generally, as I said before when bad people do violence in movies and games and stuff
It's portrayed as bad when good people do it, you know, they do it for noble reasons
But if you have like multiplayer games, then they just use violence as a context for competition
Uh, it wants to play your video games, especially
so
In that sense, I don't know again. It depends on how you would
um
Define violence
Yeah
glorification of violence. Oh vids from isis
um
well
Yeah
Yeah, they use they use violence as a spectacle in order to you know, they're terrorists. I mean that that's not quite the same thing is like
Yeah, I think yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I definitely think it's interesting. But I I do think that they glorify violence
Oh, definitely. I mean oh the indiana jones movies. That's a good one eagle. Um
indiana jones
To a degree. I mean the same degree that a lot of them do a hero fights against bad people to do a good thing
And he's cool. He's a cool action hero while he does it
So, um, should I move on oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think we had talked that was a good question there a lot
Oh, yeah, there was an interesting thing to talk about. Um, look guys
I just like ray as a character as much as the next sexist bigot, but luke let ray win
No, he was defeated she pulled the lightsaber before he could do anything about it and gave up
Yeah, I don't I definitely don't think think of it as me and rags wrestling like trying to fucking kill each other and then
uh
like I I grab a gun that's on the floor before he can
And and I fucking shoot if I shot him dead and you wouldn't be like well rags let mauler win
I don't know if that is a charitable fucking interpretation of that event
I would never let mauler
um
you could argue
the
I don't know luke saw the lightsaber and thought well I give up but like there's still not any better really
Um
The okay maps are much better than the last few cards
I wouldn't know. I haven't played the last say what so when we were talking about call of duty
This is uh, the okay maps are much better than the last few cards
Uh, I can't speak for world at war world at war world war two
Uh, because I didn't play it and I refused I I oh I played the beta it was
Fine as far as call of duty games go. I thought it was fine
Uh, but in terms of like black ops three black ops four, uh infinite warfare
Uh advanced warfare ghosts. Yeah
Yeah, even the worst. Well, no, no piccadilly is still worse than most of them. Uh
Yeah, i'd say for the most part most of the maps are better than the last
five or six cards, but
I ain't saying much
Um, and yeah, like I said, I don't really have a reference for it at a halloween party
So I can't watch live sadly, but I saw wolf was back on ephab
So I can't wait to see this go up on moolah. Glad to see you back my n-word. Also. Hi rags. Hello
Hello
Bless the dawn wolf has come
hmm
Then typical statement
Hey guys, just want to recommend a manga slash anime called beer beast stars kind of like zootopia
But very adult in its character betrayal
This is the second time that's been mentioned now. Is that a new thing that everyone likes?
it's um
It seemed it might be a pattern
Hi rags, how about a review of deep rock galactic?
I have heard a lot of good stuff about that game and I do own it
um, I just haven't really played it but I I would be I'd be interested in uh
I'd be interested in that
Just finished streaming my podcast and saw an ephab where the original trio was on what is this 2018?
Yes, it is blessed southpaw who has now been running a I think he's done three episodes of the south podcast
um
I guess you could call it
a sister
Podcast in a way to ephab. I think the the guest he's had on including obviously the host himself
They're all they all watch ephab for what I understand the boob
They even had um, he even had ren's reviews on the mission impossible fallout heathen if you remember. All right
Oh, did we j him?
Uh, I don't know about that
But um, yeah, uh good stuff yay wolf is back also hi rags
Hey
Uh, you guys are handed a blank check and an unlimited time period to write slash create an r-rated star wars movie
What director would each of you choose and what would the story be about take place in?
Huh
What are the questions one more time just so I remember which director what I choose and what would your story be about i'll go first
um
either
Blank slate completely new thing which is not something I can really specify here because I probably want to go through like a whole story
And then I might go as far as saying a horror star wars film and choose mike flanigan as my director slash writing
helper
And then if I was going with something more specific
I wouldn't mind doing a story between the prequels and the ot
About vader hunting down jedi because that seems like it would be fun, especially if it's r-rated
And explore more of the empire and how it ruled and take very lots of much
Huge more care with everything if i'm allowed infinite
Uh time period i'm gonna take a long time writing that thing
I think
I would choose
Alejandro and yurritu
For the director and I would probably
Go either telling a story
Completely centered around a sith and not like force a force unleashed sith that turns into a jedi
But like he stays the bad guy the whole film
Or maybe telling a story of like who was the first sith?
And how did he get to that point
All right rex i'm i'm not particularly, um
Knowledgeable on a lot of directors, but what I would do
is
Let's let's keep it topical I would have tod phillips directed
And I would have my story set
um in the years I would say
Two or so years after
Um two or so years after episode six
Um
There a power vacuum is created in the galaxy
And you have multiple factions who are
Vying for control for influence
um
Zones would be created of you know political power
Uh borders would be drawn
um, the reformation of power and the re potential re-centralization of power after
Uh, the empire is destroyed or at least severely weakened like that. I think would be very interesting
um, the story would follow
two characters
from
No, no, no, no, I would have it follow. There wouldn't be like a protagonist
the story would essentially swap between
a multitude of characters probably
Three or four maybe each in their respective faction
And each one would be concerned about their own factions well-being their planets well-being their people and their culture how it would
Essentially find its place in this new
Coalition potentially but there wouldn't be like, you know, it'd be like in real life. There's not like evil countries per se
Everyone's looking out for their own, you know stuff and
It gives their perspective on why they think the other factions might be bad or why they might be
um
exploitative and why they're doing what they are for their group and their people and
That's probably what I would make that's probably what I would make
That was me. Sorry if that was a long answer
But that was fair. That's what the question asked and obviously these things would change dramatically if they were actually given any kind of
Production I would need months to come up with a solid idea of a story. Yeah. Yeah
Certainly there but that's that's kind of the area because I I lament the fact that there's just no world building at all
Done there's a 30 year gap that I think would be incredibly interesting from a political perspective
Especially when because I i'm a big fan of uh, isaac asimov's foundation books
um, i've read quite a few of them
And I I love the idea of like galactic politics and the scale of it all and how it all works together and the balance of
Power that thing really appeals to me and it would work. I think perfectly in a star wars kind of setting
I just want like a really visceral
Story surrounding like a like an evil person like most of star wars focuses around
like either good guys or
Bad guys that turn into good guys or anti-heroes that are still more toward the hero end of the spectrum
I'd like to see a story that's like
completely bad guy focused
Something that's really violent and I think like a sith focused story would be
Really awesome. I'd love to do that
Yeah, that'd be cool. There's a lot of stuff. That's a big universe and there's a lot of time periods
And there's a lot of stuff that you can do with it
Uh wolf you're back now it's a true efap classic
All right
Sadly, this is still the best caught in years
It's potentially true again. I wouldn't know
I mean better than infinite warfare better than ghosts
I'd say
I don't think I don't even think it's better than modern warfare 3 though
Modern warfare 3 was tisn me, but there was like a couple nice things about it
Black ops 2 definitely not better than that
Better than advanced warfare better than black ops 3 better than black ops 4. I liked advanced warfare better than modern warfare
You like it's did you like it's multiplayer though advanced warfare. Yeah. Yeah, I I like it
I did
I couldn't stand it
The maps were not made for that kind of movement. They didn't bother trying to make maps surrounding that movement ability
No, like titanfall or crisis where the maps are made specifically with their abilities in mind. It was so stupid. I loved it
Okay, I couldn't stand it. It was it was broken
Uh, hey maul are currently studying accounting slash auditing in college and I found it interesting our process for investigating business seems very similar to how you make
your videos
All right
That's not interesting. I'm guessing it's just accounting for
Old variables sort of thing. Is that kind of what i'm going for? Also. Hey rags and wolf. Love y'all. Hey
Hello
Great to have you back wolf any thoughts on his dark materials the books
Oh, I really liked them
Really really liked them. I'm interested to see the show
Because the golden compass movie was just awful awful awful film
and uh
Since my friend is like making me watch the watchman show with him
So that he doesn't have to suffer alone
I'm gonna make him watch that show when it comes out. So then we could be like, hey, maybe it'll be good
Maybe it'll be bad. I guess i'll figure it out
I think it has potential to be good as long as they're like faithful and not tis me but no
Who knows?
Anyone seen the lighthouse? I have not seen it yet
I haven't seen it lots. I have not
It's beaten out joker for my movie of the year
All right. Oh
Also, hi maula. Hello
Oh neat a new efap. I'll watch it later. Who does rags and maula have on today's guest? Oh wolf's back
Well, i've just creamed myself. Oh
Oh dear, oh
Uh, which are netflix trailer opinions?
I don't really I haven't watched it. I don't even think I want to watch i'm afraid to watch it
I mean if you like 99
Watch the whole show then I won't but if you guys end up watching i'm gonna watch it just so I can fucking be aware of
the memes
Uh, well when it comes out if you guys want to want to watch it i'm down for watching the first episode with y'all
Like a maybe an efap miniseries
Could be it could be or just for funsies whichever one maybe maybe it would turn out to be a good efap
Maybe not we could watch we could treat it like one and watch it like one
Sure, who's uh, who would be our fourth? Who's into which is fringy into which or at all? Uh, I think I was about to say fringy
um
Let me see, let me click my steam and see
Who's into a dawicha?
By the way can't say i'm i'm mostly okay with a new library
except
um
I want game new I want to be able to have it to where game for those of you who have
Not updated steam yet. There's a new library layout for it
And i'm mostly fine with it. I just wish that the news would be
The most prominently displayed thing not just latest activity and there was a view latest news button
But you have to click it and then you have to click back. So I like the uh
The function where you can make your own playlists for games. You want to make? Uh, yeah
Like that's really really nice
I like on the left if one of your friends is playing a game
It has a little green person indicator next to that game. Oh it does. Yeah
Here i'll show you what it looks like. That's fucking cool
Yeah, uh, I only have like four friends on steam. So I probably won't show up for me. Anyway, so like that
Oh, that's kind of neat
Yeah, when I first saw it I was like what'd you do steam and then I looked at it more and I was
Because I I I legitimately really
Think it's fine so far
But again, one of the good things is being able to click on a game and know instantly if it's been updated
Oh, dude, I didn't I didn't realize this when I when I look at my collection like my little uh playlist collections
It actually shows the covers of the games I have
In uh specifically in those selections
I haven't done the collection stuff yet. I'll have to uh, i'll show you
But oh, I see the button up here at the top. I haven't done any yet, but they got advanced filtering
To be fair the epic game store has um
Borderlands three, I guess
so
This is sort by recent activity
Oh, wow recent so I got eight games recently
Oh, wow, it goes it goes by month
So the games you play that month
Well, that's actually not bad at all and you can
Show only ready to play games when you already have the only ones you haven't only the ones you have installed. That's useful
Wow, this is I now that I look at some of these buttons. Oh, you can add a game to your favorites list
I'm sure jimster. This is actually a bitch about this actually who cares about chungus
I really like this. This is actually really sweet
That ready to play games one is really nice
How rare is it for a piece of software to update in a way that changes the ui for the better these days?
It's like oh my goodness
You guys yeah, I
I actually really like this. I I just wish I could turn instead of activity being the default
I wish it was news
I like to be able to click on something and see if there's news for it a new update a new developer note a new
beta release a new
Season thing releasing. That's what I like to see
But this isn't bad. It's just a button click away and a button click back. So it's not like a big deal
Um
Rags please talk jeremy from geeks and gamers into getting titanfall 2 on pc
We're getting streams going and I really don't want to play fps games on ps4
Oh, dude. Yeah titanfall 2 especially with how quick it is
Um, you definitely want to dude playing that on
I will say gorgeous on pc. First off titanfall 2 arguably best shooter game of all time. I think an argument can be made
Um, I I don't I don't know if i'd say that
I love it, but you i'd have to play a lot of shooters and really go in depth on all of them
Uh, titanfall 2 was one of the games that gave me like
Not vertigo, but you know like that dizzy kind of like in a good way
You know like where I know yeah. Yeah, it gave me that
vertigo-ish feeling
remember that map, uh
kind of around the halfway point of the campaign where
You're thrown across the map and you have to go around all those towers and shit. Yes
Oh, that's such a cool. Um for me that the biggest moment for that was at the the city building plant
Oh, oh, yeah where you're like jumping around all the
Yeah, the little houses that are being made yeah, they're turned sideways and the other ways and then
Look, we're gonna start we better stop because we're fucking gushing titanfall 2's amazing play it
Um
You've not died for your country until you've thrown all of your grenades battle orders for the nazis and call of duty world of war
Yeah, like I said, it's so grenade heavy
Boo it up on veteran go play any of the levels
You'll be seeing some grenades heading toward you. I wonder if that game's alive like on pc and stuff
I'm curious the last time I tried was like maybe a year ago and that didn't have too many players
I'm looking at the steam charts for it real quick rag. I will join your effort on titanfall 2
All right, uh 1200 people were playing call of duty world at war today wow
Oh
Genuinely surprised. That's a lot more. Yeah, that's way more than I would have expected. What about cod4?
I'm looking up right now because I I honestly would rather play cod4 than the alright call of duty
modern warfare
It says there there's only 300 people playing today
Huh interesting
Well, wait, but if I come out, maybe they will move to that there
Is there like a tracker for titanfall 2? No more people are playing the original than the remaster. Damn
Let me search. Well, the remaster is garbage
absolute terrible
So unfilf on pc right now. The most popular call of duty is black ops 3
Follow and and it's got a pretty substantial lead. There's 1900 people playing it right now
Uh call of duty world war 2 multiplayer
There is 1026 people playing
interestingly though
call of duty world war 2
740
World at war has got as many as world war 2 so
Uh, please tell me wolf has seen bat lamin. Uh, I don't think you've seen the show at all, right?
We've seen some of the I i've seen your coverage of the first four episodes. I haven't watched the episodes themselves
Yeah
There you go. He's seen what you've possibly seen
Uh, thank you maula for always reading my superchats cosmonaut variety hour allows superchats on his live streams
But refuses to interact with the chat and instructs his guests to ignore them
What?
Is that true?
What's the point of having superchats then that's from sam. Il
He's often said some weird stuff in chat. So I don't know if that's i'm not gonna
That sucks if true
I'll say if he does that
Fuck that guy
Yeah, that's lame. Where's rags getting these numbers. Oh, yeah, uh steam charts
Uh is the site that I use it's very um useful. It's just steamcharts.com
Is there an origin equivalent because i'd like to see how many people are on like titanfall 2 or?
Maybe I don't know four three or whatever
Um, but yeah steam charts tells you all-time peak for the game how many were playing?
Uh, the how many playing are playing currently?
And how many people played at most the the peak for the day and it also shows you the changes every single month
Shows you the changes in player count which can be quite interesting
So like if an update comes out you can see, you know, how many people join or how many drop off
It's interesting for data and for curiosity
For instance right now there are three hundred and four thousand people playing counter strike go
So, you know stuff like that
um
Yeah, uh
I think a lot of people might if if someone's a brand new viewer of efap and then they do a super chat
And they see there's not read out and none of them being read out
They might have that concern but
The idea is that we're always going to try and read every single one that came for that stream out in the stream
Oh my god seven days to die
I just I I looked
It just got its alpha 18 update
That's first. This game came out in
January 2014
It is currently today was its all-time peak at thirty five thousand five hundred fifty two put
Very interesting. Um, yeah, I was just curious if you play that
Um
Uh, yeah, yeah, I always think it's just that it kind of just suck does he does he let people know that well
I was about to I was about to say like does he let people know that you know
Don't super chat if you're only doing it to get a message read
But I doubt he would because at that point you'd be like why don't you just turn them off if you're not going to read them
at all
which
I'm guessing you know
Who wants to keep them on? I wouldn't I wouldn't do that. We wouldn't do that to you
We want to know what you have to say
We care about you
Uh that feel when I want to watch this later because i'm seeing joker tomorrow, but I would miss out on live wolf
Also, when does dark souls 3 get good?
I thought I feel like the whole game is pretty good, but I don't know maybe i'm wrong
Uh, I liked it from the get-go
Also, hi rags. Hello
Ask wolf the brie larson wizard question
What the what?
Rags what was the brie larson wizard question?
Oh, was it the re-roll thing?
The brie larson wizard
If i'm right, I think this is the one where so wolf would you sleep with brie larson or would you re-roll a random girl?
From anywhere in the planet to be the person you sleep with instead. Oh, yeah
Would you would you rather fuck brie larson or you have to fuck instead a a random female on the planet earth?
Oh brie larson. Oh, I know right
Yes, I mean come on i'm like, I know it's hard with mama june
Brie larson right come on
I mean, yeah, she's like
The question of the fat ugly old five and a six she's like
She's reasonable. Nothing you would ever go out of your way. I know that's what I said
That's what I mean chat thought. I was crazy like you compare that to like
To like I said like mama june. Do you do you really want to take that risk? No, no, I mean
Okay. Oh, oh, oh wait. Wait change change up change up
Someone said the question was you get transformed into a woman. Do you choose brie larson or get a random roll?
Oh
Wait, I get wait, I get transformed into a
Whole wait, I would still use the same logic to conclude on that question. Yeah, I would still use the same logic
Yeah, so so you you basically get transformed to the appearance of a woman, I guess
Do you choose brie's appearance or a random roll?
And i'm definitely going with brie on that one way. So I get transformed into a woman
To be with another woman. Do you get transformed into a woman?
Period I would you take her appearance?
Would you take her appearance for your own or would you randomly appear as a random woman?
I
Take her appearances
The question boils down to do you think that she's better looking than 50 percent of the world or
Less than 50 percent. Uh, I don't know if I want to put a number to that. She's definitely not like
Startlingly attractive. Well, you get what i'm saying, right? The whole reason you would reroll is about the odds
And so if you know, yeah, I mean if if we were talking about like some land whale like 600 pounds has warts all over
It's like yeah, reroll. Yeah, that's a potential. Yeah
But like brie larson's like look here. She's tolerable. It's nothing. I would want to be
You don't have to have a personality. So, you know and plus she's physically fit
She's healthy
She's not which like which is something that you should
Well, I mean it's this is just appearances this is appearances so yeah
I mean think of all the fat overweight people or stuff like that
Even if you're kind of meh on the appearance
She's healthy. She ain't disabled. She's
fit
Yeah, I'd still choose brie larson in the like
Not so it's not something i'd want but it's better than the alternative
Yeah, and people like potential alternative. Yeah, um, there's a lot of a lot of ugly bitches
out
So that's that's why you know, that's why um, hey wolf glad to see you back
You got any favorite movies minor aliens and ghosts in the shell the anime one?
Hmm, I mean if you've watched the show how we know a lot of his favorite movies are ready
Uh lord of the rings in the grade. I don't even think I need to mention those
alien aliens terminator two
It's just gonna go through the list. It's gonna reflect all of them already
I'd add do you say terminator two?
Who's the alien? Yeah, I just did. Sorry. I've started my brain slow. Okay. Um, also prestige
Maybe ones that aren't there that are lesser known. I mean the gray probably
Uh, there's a shit ton
Yeah, there's there's a
Absolutely ridiculous amount but I mean
I always go with like if the lord of the rings didn't exist then the gray would be my favorite
Grace great
Who would win wings of redemption or movie bob
In a what in a fight in what kind of fight though, I guess we did
You know what i'm gonna make the rules because the super chat doesn't they uh locked in a room
They're standing there and they both have to go at it to the death
To the death. Yep. Uh, oh movie bob would win. Really?
Here's my reasoning. Here's my reasoning. I think that movie bob
Would fucking kill a guy
I also I don't know what wings of redemption would actually I don't think he has that emotional
I don't think I don't think he'd be able to do it
You know, I I don't even think it's necessarily like the emotional part
I think wings of redemption is just too fat and too useless to be able to actually
You're implying all of them wouldn't be cowardly
Like I don't actually think he would personally enact this shit that he would want someone to do it on his behalf
Oh, well, yeah, that's the same thing with wings of redemption too. They're both cowards
but
I unfortunately have to go with movie bobs because wings of redemption is
He's a baby
That weighs yeah, 500 pounds. I think film roberts more vicious
I think he's not nearly he's fat, but he's not wings of redemption fat
Wings is gonna lose stamina very quickly. I could see him as an actual killer
Uh
Opinions on Sweeney Todd Broadway and film I have not seen the Broadway vision. I liked the film the Tim Burton one
Haven't seen either
Rages
The Sweeney Todd
Sweeney Todd is yeah, it's the name. I haven't seen it. I haven't seen it
Wolf, please. Tell us your favorite anime and manga
Oh
Favorite anime I haven't watched too many anime to be honest. I've read more manga
um
if I had to
It's this I I mean, it's not as
Structurally sound as others, but violet evergarden's still probably my favorite anime
my favorite manga
Uh
Yeah
Just going with berserk
I've I've made it to volume four
Nobody told me the kinds of things that happened in the beginning of volume four. There's some crazy stuff in there
Hey, it's all great
Like uh all the like violent stuff. It's awesome
man
But yeah, that's my favorite manga and anime
Uh
Fellas hate more warfare because it ain't the lowest common denominator twitch shooter. You can't run around like a chicken with its head cut off
It's silly to complain. I get shot when I stand out in the open
I know what because because one of the things I said was I don't know if I said this on stream or to wolf
But you can kind of like choose when you do well
Um, if you play really slow paced if you play
Um, and you know listen for footsteps. I mean the first game I ever played in it. I was 15 and three
Um, if if you if you just accept the mechanics for what they are and play like a bitch you will do very well
Uh, but the thing is that's just not all that fun or interesting or entertaining
Um and trying to with claymores get uh, the stuff that takes you off the radar
And then yeah, and stay quiet and it's one of those. Oh, you can't run around and get killed
So you're bad. It's like no, no, this is a game where there's a million lines of sight and you die if somebody looks at you
Um, i'm very good like games like battlefield. Um, i'm very good at battlefield
um
Very good at like dirty bomb is extremely good at that
um
I mean there i've played a lot of shooters and i'm quite good at them generally
um
but
Like in even in previous call of duties i've been pretty darn good too
so
I don't know man. Uh
I don't know what to say
And ain't me being bad
But that's the typical. Oh, you you don't think it's good. You must be bad if you're better at the game
And then you'll have fun, uh, the wolf has returned
Which would you rather john carpenter's superman starring wesley snipes or quentin tarantino's pop eye the sailor man starring danny devito
Say that say what was the first one? No, there's no point right the second one is just the easy win
No, what were they john carpenter's superman starring wesley snipes is the first
Okay, the second is quentin tarantino's pop eye the sailor man starring danny devito
Excuse me easily the second one. Yeah, there's no competition not even close
Uh, hello mauler. Hello wags. Hello
Take this for the therapy that I swear is needed after that years and debate
I had to watch it over multiple days because his arguments were that bad
Well, i'm glad you got through it if you did. That was yeah, it was a tough one
Um, also hello wolf. Hope all is well and the dawn continues to bless
Yep, absolutely bless the dawn wolf are you a fan of tj kirk and deep fat fried?
uh, i'm
You know tj's
He hasn't made many good videos in quite a while. I still like his personality
And I like the personalities on dff. I don't really like dff's format though
There you go, uh wolf comes back to us now at the turn of the tide
Welcome back bad. We missed you
What a plot contrivance
The wolf is back. Hey mauler. Will you ever do more game analysis or you're only doing movies now?
I miss you gaming videos. Also. Hello there ragas
Hey, um, I absolutely want to do more gaming stuff before I die
But I can't promise when any any of these projects are going to be happening. I'm working
on the next thing
I don't even really want to talk about what it is anymore because I upset people with how long it takes or where it's delivered and stuff
but um
There are so many things I want to make and I do want to cover games
I know i've said this for like more than a year and a half now, but it's true
That's what i'd like to do, but I can't do everything
Um, i'm working on cloning myself
As soon as i've sorted I will put one on tv shows one on games one on movies
We'll be fine in 69 for an hour is what i'd do
Then get down to business then after that we'd get down to bid. Hmm
Uh, i'm politically left but fuck true doe and who the hell is jeb
Jeb you don't know
Jeb is the true president of the united states
Oh
Reggs, do you remember that that picture? I think he showed it to me in walleye or maybe no it was a video
Of god of god emperor trump in like the big battle armor the giant statue or yeah or whatever it was
Imagine that but with jeb
You know what's funny about it is if he saw it jeb probably be upset by it he's like no
I'm not supposed to be scared
That that's what makes it even better
Yeah
Um
Hey wolf's back good to see you on efep
Wolf i've missed you glad to see you back. Were you talking about ben from play the game? He's awesome
And you guys should have him in sometime
Who I don't know when they mentioned a ben at one point that we weren't oh, yeah, someone
Said sound uh, I think might have been oof oof
Who said that sounds like something ben would say and I was like who's ben he's like ben dover
Oh, did you
Don't know what bend him bend him over do it was there any bending
By any parties involved look this is a
This is a confidential thing. You fucking bend. Oh you fucking slut
You wanted that you wanted that dude
I would love to see molar in a dnd game where he plays as a bod that critiques everything
But I would also love to see molar in some sort of dnd game with rags. Also. Hi cigar
Cigar scar, I guess I should say scar
Oh, that's my name backwards scar hello
Oh, yeah, I mean
I don't know fuck all about dnd. So
I'd probably be a little bit awkward with something like that and my schedule is tight as it is stuffed if you will
Uh, if you nut right before daylight savings this weekend, that hour is technically erased. Would that count as losing?
No nut november
I don't know if technically erased you see that's like saying yeah to somebody in the last
Well, the thing is is we've already had two days the deed was already done
Yeah, um, yeah, you still did it. You still did it. You have to live with your I've already failed
No fap november because that's stupid. I haven't failed i'm persistent
I'm i'm just i'm gonna be fucking and sucking and jerking and twerking and all that stuff
I i'm gonna succeed at failing it again. I gotta get ready for jesus's birthday month
Jesus is a cool guy. Why does jenny look like an olivian npc? Oh, no
Have you heard of my themes?
Have you heard of the high elves?
Stop her
Thoughts on gladiator my number two movie also. Hi rags. Oh, I love that. Hello. I'm a very good movie. It's great stuff
Uh speaking of wings you guys should go on the pka podcast sometime. They were friends of wings give you great insight into him
kick j. Hi rags
Hello, um, I don't really care too much to get insight into wings of redemption
Yeah, I think I watched the frederick knitson video and I feel like yeah, just uh
Got the documentary
I'm like a wings historian. I've been i've been getting fricking into wings and we every time there's a new
Uh leaner pizza than wings. It's our sean ranklin video, by the way. Shout out sean ranklin
Uh, we we make sure to get into a watch together together and uh, wash it
We're we're huge wings fans or wings screaming fans. I love my way
Um, but yeah, I mean, you know if if say they wanted to invite us on it's not like we'd say absolute no or anything
I think the pka guys are pretty cool. They're probably fine dudes. Sure
Uh, what if you could have supernatural perfection in objective critique?
But whenever you hear someone make a false claim you experience a physical manifestation of smelling their thoughts. Is it worth it?
No, no
nah
Because there goes efap also. Yeah, we wouldn't be able to run efap. We'd die. It would just be oh no
Besides if you knew you were perfect at doing something
There's no way to improve on it and you can't grow or
As nice as it be to you know
Can be able to know you're an authority on it at the same time. There's a point where you're like, yeah
There's a level of emptiness to it
Yeah
And you wouldn't be fun to talk to you honestly because every time you try and discuss anything you'd be like well
Let's just ask him. He'll know the answer
You'd be like googled here friends at that point
Rather than a person which would probably man
How much would your personality change if you were fully aware of the truth in almost every aspect?
You'd be the you'd be the youth and fro critiquer
Who'd change everything my favorite wolf is back 20 to wolf. Oh
Oh very nice
That was made a long time ago
As you can see we're really getting there
Oh no
Uh announced my engagement on an efap a few weeks ago now need advice
How do I convince fiance to add i7 processor and 1080 ti card to gift registry? I'm running with a 960 here
Daddy needs enough credit
gift registry
Oh, yeah, you can do that, right?
I don't I don't know gift registry. It's like a suggestion for wedding gifts for people I guess
Let's just put it on there. Let's see what else just throw it on there. Well
Yeah, fuck it and they're like, what is it? Oh, it's a computer component. I need it for work
Which wouldn't be a lie
Yeah, you need it for way
I mean and what might be but
It also might not be but at least it's a worthy lie even if you're like a gardener
Just say you need it. Yeah, it's it's a lie, but no one's getting hurt. You need it for your timetables and your calendars
All right. Yeah
Are you kidding me?
It's one of the most consistent and cohesive movies in years. See we can use buzzwords too
Oh, well, yeah, there's a thing half of what she said could have been reverted like inverted. Sorry like reversed
Anyway have as much meaning because she lacked references
Um at wolf be patient jenny has the tism. Oh and welcome back
Yeah that
She certainly does glad to have you back wolf mauler. Have you shown wolf the isle of man flag?
Oh, I already saw yeah, I i'm well versed in the islay of man is
Hey wolf you back have you seen the children
The children I guess it's a movie the children or something
Are just like have you seen the children have you seen the children? Yeah, just in general
The children some children around children. Yeah. Yeah those kids crazy kids
2008 mystery thriller
Oh, I haven't seen it wedding gift registry. No, i've i've never actually heard of no
Oh, it's one of those hour and a half. I've only been to i've only been to one wedding and i'm going to one in
december, so i've
There's only been one wedding before
Um
Also rags finger flick my boy button until I slo-mo quick silver climax do me x-men apocalypse style
Oh
Oh my
Love you. Well, I don't get the offer. No, no, it's just for rags. No, no, you can't uh, yeah
You gotta keep up with us
stud muffins over here
Love you wolf glad to see you
Yeah, uh, hey wolf remember that part of that book series where an older female owl drunkenly hits on him and they insinuate that
She wants to sleep with him
And guardians of ghoul, I guess I
It has been a very long time since those books well remember and I don't even think I finished the series
I think I got to like book nine or ten and then I just never finished it
I remember really liking the beginning books, but then they stopped getting away from soarin and I stopped really caring
That reminds me of
It doesn't completely surprise me because there is some weird things in those books at times
but
Yeah, I don't remember that
But I don't doubt that it's there
I mean we were talking about that movie and like alijah wood was voice of one of the
He was also the voice of the happy feet guy another movie. He was in voicing a protagonist
That movie was kind of there are some pretty sexual vibes in that one too for a kids movie
Thank you. Yeah, it says it was weird. I know I was watching it with somebody one time and we're like, man
They were just oh, all right
I'm talking about fucking
So you got mark hamill joker heath ledger joker and walking phoenix joker shag mary kill
Okay, uh, so this is phoenix joker and joker hamill joker and hamill okay hamill's dying
What why really?
Well, hmm, I don't know if i'm supposed I don't know if I can like heath ledger
dies
What's the reasoning? I'm actually really not sure who to pick for any of them. I think he's my my reasoning
He's more deadly down to the joker
Thinking of like that really scum fuck tweet that mark hamill posted. Oh, right
I I think that the ledger joker would be the most deadly and dangerous and unpredictable
The thing is like if this involves danger to us then there's not much point in the question because shag and mary involve our deaths
no
Well, then what are you talking about? I could I I guess I guess uh
if we're talking
I think joker seems to be like the less blemished by horrible things on his face
So he's like the best one to look at so yeah, I guess I'd fuck him
I guess i'd fuck the hamill one and i'd marry
Like normal joker because I mean, you know his rules just be nice to him. Yeah. No, actually that's true. I'd marry phoenix
Yeah, that's actually pretty good. Yeah, be nice to him support him be there for him and he'll he'll love you long time
Give him give him some burgers since he's yeah, man dire need for him
So we're remaining with shag and kill but choosing isn't hamill much older than ledger though?
Do you guys go in strictly on the fact that he's got face scars the car won't fuck him
Is that really what you're doing? Wait, we're ledger. Mm-hmm. No, I think he's a freaking unpredictable psychopath
Yeah, but we we've got a promise you want to kill us, right?
So I don't want to be around. No, I don't want to be around him cut me or something
I want to go with the what if we have a guarantee that they're not going to hurt us
How do you know that that won't happen with hamels? Hamels is insane as well. I don't know
But i'm certainly more confident in hamels
What are you basing your understanding of hamels from on what have you seen hamels in the fact what have I seen him in?
I not really much at all. I just make sense
No, no, no clips here and there but I I
At least you'd have like a little gun
As like the stick that comes out of it with a little flag. This is bam in this in which case i'd be like, oh you
I mean does he fuck does he fuck joker would just like slam my face into a pencil and kill me
Well, I mean if you're trying to kill him
But he doesn't have henchmen
No, he does also just kill
Again he kills a henchman. This is a strange question. It's important
I I I stand I stand by what I what I reasoned out originally
You're gonna shag mark hamel and kill he fledger. Yeah
Yeah, i'm not sure i'm undecided upon those two, but I agree that phoenix joker would be married
I say kill ledger
I know you guys are horrible. You already died. No, this is why i'm glad wolf's back wolf's a smartman
Which means that he will statistically agree with me a lot
Unless you're
Ha ha
Wolf boy, you sound like you're not dying heart milk heart milk heart milk
Heart milk heart milk. Love milk. I was from dr. Martin luther pepe. I thought he knew better than
Every time you say his name I can't dr. Martin
I love the name. It's my favorite one
Uh, jeb bush has three children. That means he's had sex
That means he's had sex at least three times
That's three more times than me. Oh
They you don't know that there is
One more time than me, I guess
None of this would have happened to arthur if jeb had won gotham would have been a paradise under the leadership
His leadership jeb for gotham also a high wags
Hello
I would say the only part that's kind of unbelievable is when he got his sign stolen at the beginning not impossible
Just unrealistic because the kids don't have a motive to go to the lengths that they did
Yes, they do that much. They knock it out of his hands then pick it up and run with it
They say kids don't have a motive. They want to have fun their kids
They're they do. I mean, that's what kids tell you some stories about some of the stuff kids did
I mean, you know those uh videos of kids going into department stores and just like knocking shit over
Like that that's what kids do
They just they post on like rage subreddits because it's just like what are you doing this? Oh
Yeah, it's like why you just you guys you guys remember the like the the trend that was happening where people would like
Open the lids to ice cream and like lick them. Yeah
And like that sort of that started dying now
Fucking drop them
People like jenny nicholson give way more credit to kids than they deserve
If you're under the age of like 21, you're really stupid
Offered dives. Yes
Stop it wags. Don't you know crime statistics are racist?
That's what I have been told
Grew up near detroit explains a lot metro metropolitan areas of shite. I live in ca
california, right
It's not great. We're now we should both move it would probably help
Despite making 13 of the population bottom text
I'm on my way to making content. I will do all I can to escape this time loop where star wars 9 comes out over and over
again efap 146 guest is me
Okay
146
Despite being only 13 of the population. Is this a how many of these am I gonna get?
Um lol, my country's in the middle of mass riots over the top my ass. Very happy seeing you three together again. Hello
Hello in um in twitter riots
Uh, not just a gun a gun in a children's hospital. Well, yeah, that's that's kind of what we're getting at these events
Tied together. They're not random
I find it annoying the implication is like oh, he just had a couple of random bad things happen all at once. It's not
Ain't random
Long time watcher the trio together again is a good reason for a first super chat say rags
Do those really old deleted streams on your channel of playing bad indie games still exist? I love those
I don't know if they still exist. Honestly. I don't think they do
I remember them though
Uh, that is that is among the deepest of lore my god
Gotham has always been a facsimile of new york and joker
It is based on new york city in the 70s and 80s during the crime spike. The subway scene is literally the bernie gotts
shooting
Um
Yeah, i've i've heard the comparison I uh the story about that as well
Uh bring sargon on you cowards also watch the watchman tv show
I don't
Don't
I was gonna say I don't plan to watch it
I have watched a review of episode one from a certain someone it was entertaining and enlightening as to why I should never see that
tv show
And yeah, um one day sargon may enter this very realm one day
I'd count on it. Hail my massives. Hope you've had a good mexican halloween
Wolf, thank you for making me want to start writing also. Hi ragged rock to ton john
Hello
You can't say ginger that's our word, but you can say jinga
You can't say moolah, that's our word you can say moolah
Moolah
No, it's relax. You have to be gender. Oh shit. Yeah
form something
Sorry, i'm jumping ahead by two but i'll go back stop bringing up fbi crime statistics. That's a quote from dig bow baguins
Oh
I just found nig bow baguins
Um
Oh, no, nig bow
If sargon comes out i'll up the sub just like if the old woman e-fab happens. All right. Bye. Okay
Okay
What do you think about that new trailer for the witcher series on netflix? It looks too much like game of thrones instead of the witcher
I haven't oh, I think I haven't seen it yet, but I didn't absorb it. I was just like that stuff. Anyway moving on
Yeah, we can take a we can take a look
When is that coming out now? Do we know? I don't know
Well, if you should know right time
I'm positive. It's not gonna be good. I haven't cared enough to look. Yeah, I just i'd rather just hear it
I'd rather not involve myself
With it in any way even it's just reviewing it. I feel like I it would taint me
Uh, the events that led to the cutting of the program for disabled people actually happened in real life around the same time
The movie was set in
Yeah
Yeah, that's something you mentioned. I think the last I want to say last e-fab it might have been before that
um, yeah
But yeah, uh, it's a very relevant time frame and also
Well, there'll be something we can talk about with because I think someone else
I think it was actually movie bob that says there's no reason for it to have been in the 80s
And we didn't get to cover that today. Unfortunately
Oh, that's always three hours. Yeah, there's no reason for a clown to be holding that sign. So yeah
Stop it my brain
Hello my messes. I've listened to y'all since episode 15 and it's past time for me to throw some money at you
Thank you all for the great times
Thank you
The overwatch 2 reveal reaffirms that blizzard has no idea what to do with the game no regrets quitting years ago
Also, welcome back wolf. They're making an overwatch 2
Yeah, they announced that diablo 4 and uh
Some new world of warcraft crap all like I think the same day are very close. All right. Well, yeah
It looks
Like overwatch but more maps, I guess
Spend another 40 bucks for the same game. Whoa
Uh c's uncompetitive raw get the roof
It's this thing that you can just carry around apparently
I'm stupid. Haha mola get fracked also. Hi wolf
Hmm
Yeah, all right, i'm hunting a waggot ragged
Uh rags need to stop being such a massive ragged
I can't help it. It's just my nature wolf favorite slash least favorite buffy slash angel episodes
Oh
Favorite well season two finale obviously is one of your favorites
One of my favorites. Yeah, i'd have to really
Uh, I I don't know the names of too many of the episodes and me describing them will have spoilers spoilers
Uh, i'll go with yeah just to be safe. I'll go season two finale of buffy is my favorite of that show
uh, my favorite of
Angel would be i'm assuming hole in the world slash the finale slash
Uh, oh hole hole in the world hole in the world. Definitely. Yeah, uh least favorite
Any given one from season four of angel
least favorite of buffy
um
Huh
What was the worst one in season one
It was the one in season seven that we really hated but it was like a joke episode
The one where they all fall in love with the stupid jacket if you remember
Oh, that one was bad. Um, there's a handful of ads
I think i'll go with that one tacitly choosing that one there you go. Yeah
I'm not reading that out. I'm gonna
I'm not gonna read this out. I'm just gonna
Well, do you remember smile time from angel wolf that episode
Smile time. Which one was that the one?
I'll just say with the puppets
Oh, yeah
Oh actually
It's a fantastic episode hole in the world is still probably
The best but man smile time was great
Yeah, and uh thrown except that's his his favorite or at least best and I agree
For obvious reasons. Well, it's it's in and among the best. I fucking love season five of angels. So
Uh that quote from spike when he walks in he's like look at you
Oh, it's gotta be one of the best scenes in the entire show. Oh, yeah
Oh, man. Hey wolf rags. Our love will be greater than alexander and hefestian than achilles and petricless
Oh
Okay, all right, yeah, all right
Wolf you're back to efap and I only have time to watch live when you're muted while getting pizza
Well, I love you. Regardless you lovable. Hey, I was getting a burger. No, I'm getting a burger
You don't I don't get the facts right man. Jeez
Your facts straight, man
Uh, i'd still for uwu cuck
Okay
I guess that's supposed to be fuck
you'd for uwu cucker. Yeah, um
Fair enough. I guess that's in reference
to
Jeb nickels
Um, jeb nickels
I think i smelled nickels is in like the five cent piece
I don't even think she's worthy of that
Worthy I declare a holy crusade upon her womb. All right. Oh
Oh goodness
As a person who works in hospital hospitality services temp workers are common and I confirm rags is telling the truth when it comes to expenses
Yep
The only intelligent thing she's ever come had come out of her mouth was due to the fact that she oh my goodness wouldn't swallow
Wow
Oh shit, I done made a sexism
Oh, no
Why'd you do that? You're making us look bad. We're gonna be what's eating gilbert and jeb
That's gonna be funny because they know the name of the film
I know weird fucking name for a film like what I found out that was real. I was like what?
Yeah, good film though
Uh, are like when he's got that stupid name
Oh beds of prey. Yeah
Uh, oh my god, we're on the concept of a missing sign of a closing store in the fucking joker movie
It makes sense. She doesn't know business. We're moving on
We didn't move on for a while with that one
No
To be the devil's advocate for a moment
I've wondered why the pianist for the store never vouched for the sign being stolen. He said penis
I mean, how do we know that the the store owner knew?
Oh, you mean so the guy playing the piano should have vouched for the fact that the the thing was stolen
Again, the what I was trying to highlight was it wouldn't have mattered
because
It's still his fault
Ultimately, it's still the buck stops with him because the sign was taken from him
There's no like I don't think there's gonna be an insurance system there
Who knows if the piano player actually saw what happened rather than just playing the music?
The piano player could be deaf and he didn't hear it. I mean, I'm not gonna go that far
I'm just saying that like that's the case
I'll have to watch that that might be uh, it's interesting
Oh, but the thing is it's implied that even if it was stolen it wouldn't fucking matter
It's kind of what I was trying to get at with the
whether or not someone did jump in front of my train just to
Make me late for work. It doesn't even matter. I was late for work. I get punished. Oh, oh lord the passion of the chap
Passion of the chap. I don't think I want to know about the passion of the chap
When I languished at target my manager left early twice on busy Saturdays wants to go to a football game wants to watch it
at home with his family
Yeah, it's it's it can be rough
um
She's a woman
She's a woman people were probably nicer to her
I mean it can happen
Uh, I don't think we're allowed to talk about that though. We're only about well, the hills have
the vast majority
The vast majority of violence does happen to men men are the victims of assault far more than women so
The silence of the gem varsity gem purple gem
My best gems wedding interstellar space gems at joseph adders in the story
Hulk, Jeb the wizard of jeb jeb back mountain. Oh, no
Sleeping with the jeb
Uh, i've been looking enough to never have a bad manager across five jobs
And even I understand how lucky and rare that is. Oh, yeah
yeah, one of I mean one of the reasons I
Well did a lot of things I did was because the manager was always there always working put in a crazy amount of hours
You know and
If the manager was always lazy and never showed up and always left early and stuff like that
Then tell me we'd feel less motivated to do our jobs, too
Um
It's a
Whenever these get made I really do picture
Like so cosby jeb he's just in bill cosby's outfit doing like the faces and stuff. I just imagine
Yeah, I just imagined
Jeb doing the bill cosby the creepy bill cosby face
Ready player jeb pirates of the caribbean dead man's jeb
Mass jeb
Jebton marvel scent of a jeb. I think i think jeb effect would be better
20 yeah 30 face of jeb beverly hill's jeb attack the jeb's
Children of the
Jeb
No country for all jeb eight million ways to jeb
Fresh jeb of bella fresh
Let's just replace will smith joshank jedemption
Jeb l4 jeb kinds
Tinker taylor soldier jeb
The jebening stranger jabs
Children of our lesser jeb
Jeb got fingered on with just children of jeb
Join a trade the building trades need good intelligent workers to hell with having to put up with managers in your path
I mean sometimes options are very limited but fair enough
Uh, lovely to hear you three together again. Praise the dawn. Hi wags. Hi wall full. Hi molar. Hello
Hello. Hey
Hello
Do you guys plan on doing an episode nine leaks efap?
I'm not against it. I just not against it. I'd be fine with it
We'll have to see how things line up. We're running out of time and there's lots of other things planned
But um, it's a it's a solid maybe
Um
Hi rags, welcome back from syria
Hey, it's good to be back. I uh had to do some stuff. Uh, just a little vacation out that way
And didn't do uh, nothing at all
Great job on the bagdaddy raid. Thank you for your service. Absolutely. This is why we train. Thanks much
Make pay off watching good trailers can satisfy nostalgia
Sure, it can I don't really it fills our mind with the best possible version that we think that film could be
I just find it so fucking weird that she's like the trailers are a better experience than the movie. It's like wow
All right. Yeah
Um, our distress signals have been received at multiple points, but no response
They've heard us but no one's coming because I guess the director didn't trust us
Um, it'll be interesting to see how they rectify that in episode nine as well
Like why do people actually want to fight with the resistance?
And I like I said, the only thing I can imagine them doing is they heard the story of luke
And
We're all sitting there like oh, yeah when he like, you know defeated like helped defeat the empire and the emperor and it's like
Oh, no, that guy's still alive. We're talking about the story where he like took on a bunch of 80 80s as a ghost
I was like, oh well, yeah
Um, I saw terminator genesis last week. I thought it was okay. Can I be saved?
No
No, also hi wolf glad you're doing better. I love you long time kick jay
Yes, kick jay
um
The only bad part of the gray was when they found the logging area and didn't find the logging road
That would always be there and follow it
Well in fairness there was a bunch of snow so they didn't really know where they were going
Uh, they only found like the marker they didn't really know where the trail was
Hmm
What do christmas lights and jeffrey eppstein have in common they don't hang themselves
Hi wolf hi rags
Hello
Jared is the efap. Voldemort don't mention his name
jab the builder
The next super chat says buddy just did
Oh, no
Uh, you guys are spending a long time on this character creation screen the background texture pack is good
But the character is feeling very oblivion. I get it
Kick jay. Hello all my n-words. You're all massives bilbo said beginning is said so hi rags quick play akbar's theme
Those are all things that have episodes behind them. You know that right?
Your episodes behind them so much work the flashback killed the psych aspect of the movie
Why
The flashback killed the psych aspect
Why?
It's in his head, right? He's gonna he's obviously having cognitive dissonance if she doesn't remember anybody remembers her as
The perfect girlfriend so he's home to reconcile it and relive those moments
Understanding what they actually were. I don't have any problem with those at all
That would only be true
If he genuinely believed that the the meeting with like say murray when his like imagining of them
actually happened
Uh to address something from earlier I work at an amazon warehouse honestly a great place pay is amazing and the work isn't that hard
Fair enough. Like I said, I'd only heard uh
That article i'm you know, it's natural to assume that if we only hear
One bad thing for them. It doesn't necessarily mean that every amazon worker is in hell or anything
Yeah, um in my opinion the girlfriend flashbacks need to be there to show arthur's official break with reality
His imaginary relationship with her is sort of him holding on to hope he'll connect with somebody
Yeah, I agree with that. I I think that it makes it very clear to the audience that he's now reconciled that he's been alone this
whole time
Um
I realized j from rlm thinks that star wars episode seven is better than joker
Yeah
It's jay. He has tismy takes every once in a while. I'm sorry
He's a bit of a weird man
And they they totally acknowledge that on red letter media. They're like
My favorite example is when in the end game review
jay says
That his favorite part of the film was when they were all miserable because everyone had died
And mike was like, of course, that was your favorite part
He's such a fucking like he just loves despair
and uh
Yeah, he's you know, he's he he's got a taste of sorts not entirely sure what it is
Uh cut the stairs dancing scene to stop racism
All right cut out j
If you haven't do an image search sometime for the 13th station of the cross with the joker cop car scene in mind
Okay, uh, I don't know I said do an image search sometime for the 13th station of the cross with the joker cop car scene in mind
Joker the 13th station is jesus lowered from the crucifix. So that would mean that
Um
Okay, I that's probably coincidental but I I don't know I don't that seems a little
I doubt that's I mean maybe
I don't know
I didn't really get that. I doubt it. There's not there's not any like religious imagery in the film for what I remember
Yeah
Joker's jesus
Uh, if the flashbacks were removed and dumb people complained wolf would jump down their throats at how dense they are dumb audience is not an excuse
Okay
So, uh, let's pretend for a second that they weren't in the film and then her complaint was that she had no idea that that's
What was happening or I wouldn't necessarily have to call it dumb. I would just be like, well, we've got the references
I mean, I think it would have to be presented in a different way for it to have worked fully
If we weren't to have those flashbacks in there, I mean, this is the thing if someone argued to me
I wish there were flashbacks because I didn't quite catch it. You might have had me saying like, I don't know
I think that's a bit too obvious
Um just because that's not how I'd experienced that scene first time around but I could if someone made the argument
Yes, but it would have made it more definitive about how he was understanding it. I'd be like, oh
Sure
I like it the way they did it. I mean if they
If they did it exactly the same like let's pretend it's the exact same movie
Just taking out the flashback scenes and he just has him put a gun to his head and then leaving
Like
I don't feel like it would have had the same effect
You'd have to redo that entire scene in order for it to yeah
The best that I could then say is that he's clearly thinking about the fact that she never existed and then they're like
How do you know that and I'm like, uh
Well
I'd be like, well, I'm assuming that's what he's thinking about because of the fact that he went there looking for support
But she immediately was like who the hell are you?
And then they'd be like, how do you know that he wasn't just assuming she wasn't real this whole time
Just want to fuck with her, you know, there's a lot of leeway
But while showing it's such a it's such a worthless nitpick. Honestly, they're not long
What what what what does it take away from the film? It doesn't take anything away from the film. Absolutely. Nothing
It's like literally seven seconds of footage
Uh give off the ad very short maula also watch the dragon prince
I don't know what that is
Oh, that's the that's the that's the show made by the writer or at least the writer of
Avatar the last airbender was on there
Uh, it it has that you know that low fps style animation
Which I I watched like a couple episodes. I wasn't super impressed
It didn't seem bad from what I seen just really wasn't my thing
But I didn't watch the whole thing. So maybe it is good. I don't know
Uh, thanks for making john conner pointless cameron
People people are saying he's often responsible. He did approve of the film. I'm pretty sure he didn't write it
He's got a story credit
meaning like it comes from his ip and stuff or at least
What he would have created from the original stuff. A lot of people get credited for stuff like that. Like, um, I'm pretty sure the
Guys who wrote toy story one accredited as part of the writing team for toy story four
But I don't think they actually had anything to do with it. It's just the fact that it's a continuation of their story
That's how it started
Um
But then again, he gave ukulele a bad review
I think they're talking about critical at that point, but yeah, I still want to see his video on dark fate
Welcome back wolf. Love you guys more batwoman. Oh, it's coming
Every week
Hi rags, who's a good boy? I am. Yes you are. That's me. Also. Hello
Great to see wolf. Love you, man. Hi rags
Hey
Uh, ask blasted jose have it an eight out of ten
Yes
But when you turn your brain off
I love the old names. They give them
So glad to see you wolf. Praise be the dawn
Yeah, is it just me or does sarah connor look like hilary clinton?
That's a little insulting to her
Yeah, I don't know if I I don't know if I go that far
Angry jew literally slippy your tongue, right?
It literally was I don't know what to say man. It's called a freudian slip rag is oh, yeah, it's freudian. Yeah. Yeah
What's up my j words?
What up it looks stupid change your bad attire
Uh, I guess they're referring to uh jab nickels at that point
Hi rags. Let's watch
Angry jew taken out of cont. Oh, so let's watch angry jew get taken out of context by taxon
Took me three days to watch the full video long man bad
Oh, yeah
If you want to
Obviously we're not talking about it just yet, but
The eric taxon video on rags if you ever wanted to like have definitive proof that you can
judge music objectively
The the song that plays at the beginning of that video is
Like possibly the worst thing i've ever listened to in my entire life
like nickelback
icp
They they both the the super scary animation doesn't help either
Oh
that was
Disgusting animation awful hideous artwork the llama like face where that's that one shot
Oh, yeah, the one where it looks like the first new groove
Uh
Super happy to see the wolf's back
But now I must go spend time with all my j long bone words one of whom's even an angry jew damn
Well, I hope you have fun
Because the new things are done by wam and rags
I'm, not sure what that's referencing since it was possibly seven hours ago
Yeah, it was actually yeah
Why do future humans bother sending anyone back now the diabetic lesbian isn't fathering the future and the humans win the war
They they actually never mentioned that by the way, uh, whether or not the humans even win the war because they don't know
When it comes to kind of was destroyed was there even a war
So the way it works is kind of is destroyed but legion rises
We don't know how they actually have a line in the film where they're like, nobody knows how it just happened
It's fucking pathetic is actually pathetic I hate it
It's terrible
You see this is the reason why I I refuse to watch this game
Watch this game watch this movie
Uh, once again can't stay to watch live, but so happy wolf is back the super chat is for you wolf. Love you, dude
Woohoo, I shall make a note
Put jenny back on at least she's hotter to look at than joe what?
That's messed up man joe joe is
Joe's a handsome man. Absolutely. I would
I would hang out with him while watching
Terrible terminator movies i'm sure of it
I would be curious as to what he would have to say
Uh
Both f over john connor, but dark fate isn't sufferably woke so I consider df to be worse than genesis
Plus arnold has a bigger role in genesis
Does he though like in terms of screen time? I think you're right, but it's still not a lot in genesis either
Um, you have to deal with amelia clark's terrible take on sarah. Yeah, sarah connor
Oh, man. Yeah, that was amelia clark
Don't you mean alivia clark?
No
I that
That's that's some that's that's some lore. He tried to watch the game
It's supposed to be episode rags, but you can imagine he couldn't last very long on that
I I said I said alivia clark instead of alia clark and nobody in the call corrected me
chat corrected
Like oh, okay, jeb melia
chameleon
Jeb of war. Um
Oh my god, can someone can someone photoshop jeb's face onto denarius?
Someone said the butt jebly martians is like what?
What?
Is that an actual
sort of thing mad jeb fury bush
I
Got a p
Just jumped in to say hi rags. We'll say hi on his behalf
Um, hi wasn't gonna watch the full stream till i'd seen joker, but wolf is back. Love you, man
Hope you've been well you handsome devil
Thank you
Joe did a recent video ranking the dcu films
He gave justice league a four out of ten and he has the film on the very bottom
All right
Thank goodness
Um, have you told wolf oh
Okay, so
Do you know what the name of aunty is in the new film?
No
It's call
What his name is call
I'm sorry. I I don't even want to watch movies anymore
Uh wolf I missed you and your ads. Thank you guys for so many hours of efap
I try to take your criticism to heart and write it tight. I really believe i've become a better writer because of it. Thank you
Uh, well, thank you for saying that it's very kind
Are you telling me that I know i'm sorry. Okay. I just you're telling me that
I can reasonably make a rick grimes meme
With him saying corral
And he'd be saying it to the t-800. Yes
Wait
I I don't even know how to
How to respond to nobody does how do you respond to that? Nobody knows how
We were never trained for this when we saw too many one and two. They didn't prepare us for this
They didn't let us know this was gonna happen
Can't be seared carl
Carl and there's one of the only lines I like in the film is at one point he tells them that's his name and linda hamilton's
Sarah conna says i'm not fucking cold you call
So if I type in terminator dark fate cast and I type and I click on arnie
I don't know. Wait, let me terminate her dark
fate
I returned what have you done? I just had some berries if you did
Put on some different what?
I um, I just told him rags you I don't know if you're aware of this, but you know the t-800 being oni
That's his uh, his t-series and then model 101. He does appear
in uh in dark fate
Do you know what his name is?
Uh
cleveland
carl
Oh, I was gonna say that as a joke because I always say carl is a joke. No way. That's why I was actually kind of hoping
you'd guess that
I had like just
Half a minute of silence trying to process the fact that there's a terminator named carl in this movie
How did he get who gave him that name not the factory?
I don't remember if they actually tell us who gave him the name. I think we're supposed to assume he just got it
Is that I i'm carl balgrif
Of white thread. I can't I genuinely can't even think of what you could possibly do to make that more insulting
Um, you could have him kill john connell by shooting him several times in the chest with a shotgun. Yeah
Could do that could do that
I don't madically. I don't think
I don't retardedly that makes sense
Okay, okay, my brain hurts yeah, that's all right
Um, also I didn't see japoski
I didn't see darkfaire. I just read the wikipedia article on it at first. You don't succeed
Do not try again unless you know, you can't succeed
Fair enough
Head pads for wolf butt scratches for rags. Oh, yeah. I love it right up. You're right up top
I'll give darkfate a 13 out of 50
I get it
Her unsettling face that's 26 percent. Oh, no
The unsettling facial features are due to fecal alcohol syndrome would still smash. Did you say fecal alcohol?
That's what it says
Facal alcohol are we talking about jeb nickels? I think jeb nickels. Yeah
jeb nickels
I mean it goes on to say I would still
I would still smash that like soilless hulk smash that prius
No, no
No, no, no, no, no
I'd fuck her
Why?
She has
She's not bad looking and she
She's like plastic
Well, I without I don't know. I she's fine. She looks fine
If she needs to wear that much makeup to cover her jowls, what else do you think she needs to cover up?
Need to
I've only seen her with that. So I don't I don't know
I don't think you could possibly get me high enough
Here's some money since i've been listening to efap while driving to work the last couple of weeks
I expect footage of the three of you fighting over it. Oh my
Wait fighting over what the the super chat. Um, oh, what does it say?
What I just said, that's what it was
So say that one more time
It says here's some money since i've been listening to efap while driving to work the last couple of weeks
I expect footage of the three of you fighting over it
Over the super how much is it?
Oh
Mine. All right. I call it rags. He's he's cold shocking. I'm sorry. Listen, you can't you can't sleep in this business
Um
I fap you fap we fap efap. No. Yeah boy
my fappas brothers
Fun fact a bag of blood can cost around
400. I once saw a gunshot victim require 40 bags to save their life
So rags is not exaggerating about the hospital cost
Oh, yeah, um, that's gonna be so horrible to like wake up finally recovered from a horrible tragedy
And then be like by the way, you owe us like tens of thousands of dollars
You're like, yeah, that's that's like that's what I said. It's like kind of wishy just died instead
Uh orange is my favorite color purple objectively is the best color. Hello wagsie poo
Hello
Lovely to see you back wolf in whatever capacity now advice, please
I have some spare cash for once. Should I invest in a new sword or a knight of the mind-blowing pleasure?
continue to next post
a knight of the
blowing pleasure, um, so
Hate to be a stickler, but
a sword's not an investment
Unless you like plan on going to like a tournament and fighting for money with it or something
Or if you're gonna go retake jerusalem
Uh, but a sword you at least get to keep if it's only for a knight
Keep looking at it. Have have you if it's your first I guess if you're hiring a prostitute
Is that or is like are you attempting to woo a girl and that does take money?
Well, so he goes on to say the new blade would be about a six to eight over a longer period of time
And the knight with a professional would be about a nine to ten out of ten. Hopefully
So it like you're saying it's it's a it's a higher grade but over a shorter period so
What do you choose?
So just so we're clear he's talking about buying a sword versus a prostitute. I think so. Yeah
all right, um
Do let us know if we misinterpreted that an odd comparison
i've never never slept with a prostitute myself, but um
Sex is fucking great
so I would
You see maybe maybe i'm a little biased on this because I wouldn't want to
Unless it was with someone I cared about
So if it was like a prostitute and be like no the sword's more way more worth it
Uh, surely the sword would cost way more than
I guess it depends on who you're going. I don't actually know how much prostitutes cost prostitution
Here has been I don't know how much here, let me google how much a prostitute
How much does a prostitute cost?
Well, all right, uh apparent there's an article called sex keeps getting cheaper around the globe the average this is oh god
this is a
2014
um
Article that says the average rate is down to 260 for an hour
So that's an hour. Oh god
Look you can cram you could cram a lot of cramming into an hour
Yeah
Oh no, oh my god
I'm looking at something chat. That's amazing. It's totally unrelated
world
oh
Uh, okay back to the
back to the question
um, I mean for
Yeah, so a good swords can cost anywhere between
yuck, uh a couple hundred for something decent
To a thousand mines mine's about a thousand. It's a really good albion blade
so
hmm
How I guess it would depend on how often you have sex
If sex for you isn't a common thing either
Coincidentally or by design or I mean, maybe if he's like he never had oh, yeah
Are you a person? Yeah, and how old are you? Yeah, I that would factor into it, too
Like if you're in your 40s and you're still an incel, it's like oh, okay
That sword isn't gonna help you in that regard
Yeah, I think the sword might actually
Make issues worse
Yeah, I I don't know. Um, we need more variables
We need to understand the context more because this is an incredibly important decision
Yeah, I would need more information because I I don't have enough info
To say for certain and neither is necessarily unreasonable
I'd never slept with a prostitute. I don't know. Maybe I would just for the experience
Ah, I wouldn't no, you know, thanks. You don't think you would no because I I think I i'm like legit curious
It would have to be like a 100 out of 10 for me to consider that
I don't know
Hmm, maybe
But I I would be curious I I might
Yeah, I might do that because I would be curious about the whole hiring thing and the extra you know the personal
Business thing of it. It's uh, I think i'm curious about that
but
Here's the thing. I have I've had sex. I do not yet have a sword. My sword is still on the way
So it's tough for me to decide maybe after I get my sword
I'll be like man. This isn't all it's banged up to be I'd be like, yeah, just fuck some broad. I don't know
I would need more information to make sure that isn't that is an odd pairing of a question
There you go
Yeah
Uh me high cheek sent me high wolf
Uh, I don't know what that means, but i'm sorry someone said thoughts are temporary swords are eternal it is true
Oh
You blonde earhead it's all it all is one bad day not what you said dolt
Oh my all right
I think it's a reference to what he says in
Killing joke. Oh, I guess she got the quote wrong. I'm assuming she did
Uh new blade would be about oh, sorry. I read that speaking of metal bands wolf. I recommend avatar
Apparently that's a metal band
Well last air shredder
Jebel Oren
Yeah, Jebel Oren
Molo wolf and rags have any of you ever listened to coheed and cambria?
No
Nope coheed and cambria
I'll take that as a no
No
Oh man, I gotta take care of some stuff later and I already slept through three hours of this
We started horse-faced femoid dipshit. Wow. Whoa
Probably for the better though. I would have gotten pimmer band ps watch parasite
I'm guessing that's an anime
Jebel Baggins
wonderful
Quickly ducking in to say welcome back wolf. Hope you're feeling better. I'd stick around but I gotta get ready for a stream. See ya
Later
Jebidious
This one just says job
Job
All gems go to heaven too this says big jebious
Big gibious, uh jeban is uh screwed jebedeeza screwed
Yeah, veneezers
Veneezer screwed. Yeah, so these are all super chaso jeb the impaler saving private jeb
Brotherhood of jeb jeb of brothers jeb topia jeb fee the clapslayer
Quick play jeba's theme jeba the jepsons
Dragonball jeb the passion of the jab jeb moses jones jebzilla
Oh, you've been listing jeb names for like eight minutes
Oh my goodness the disorder jab the men who stare at jab pirates the carby in case of the black jab
Big jab in little china super bad for a quest for jab snakes
Alternatively jeb on a
Play it's just jeba flying on like united air lines
Jeb sitting in coach next to some annoying person and it's just him staring forwards for two hour fly
Awkwardly wants to complain but never does
Yeah, but he doesn't have the time to complain
And he's the whole time. He's just like hugging his briefcase in his lap
Staring at the seat in front of him like jeb syllabus is mccain cogs
Uh, it's when I was a child I used to like when we were all young
We used to look up to adults and idolize them and now that I'm older. I look at people like jeb
Kids are
Uh
Attack on jeb ideally dislocated by jaw during the jab movie titles. Thank you massive bundles of sticks
He's like remember be a man as long as that man isn't jeb
The good the bad of the jab
Do you remember back in the the old dp days like the the at least you're not brett keene me
At least you're not at least you're not jeb
Yeah, you can never have that little of a spine
What brett keene is more respectable than you
planet of the jabs
Save some efap time such resources for the global backlash frozen 2's ending is going to cause
I frozen
I don't know. I don't know. Oh is it is it supposed to have like a super controversial ending? I don't know. I honestly don't know
I guess let me google that. I didn't even finish the first movie. I made it like halfway through before quit
Do you want a higher up prostitute?
Jeb christ super star
Timinate it to jebment day jebment day jeb king of the monsters
That was ten full minutes of pure jeb
Question for wolf before you left you said you had a metro review and review for shad's book in the work
So those projects scrapped?
Uh, I didn't actually start a review for shad's book
Uh, I people asked me if I would do it and I said I wasn't opposed to doing it
But I hadn't actually finished the book at the time. So I finished it now
Uh, but I never actually started anything
As to the metro review i'm not opposed to doing it
I would probably want to just wait for the rest of the dlc to come out to
Factor that in rather than making reviews on all of them
Fair enough
Oh and it doesn't once frozen too spoiled. Oh, I guess now metro last light isn't too far from steam at this point, right?
Metro last light's been on steam for years now
Oh
The the new exit exodus exodus. That's the one. Yeah exodus should be coming out
I think next year on steam
That's not too far
You can get it with xbox game pass. I know fringy has it. Oh, really?
Yeah, I don't think he's actually played it but he said he has it
I I pre-ordered it on steam. So I still have it
Uh
12 angry jabs
Hello, i'm the jeb critic. I jeb so you don't have to
Hi, jeb. So you don't have to legend of jebla
No country for old jabs
Jeffrey jeb steve jeb lives matter
I'm glad to see wolf is jeb. I mean back. Oh
A wrinkly jeb jeb jebulous jeb have a 40k
Jeb hammer. Oh shit. It's wolf. Welcome back wolf also in
Ingeption that's from raw
Hey
Glad to know that raw approves of the uh of the the gibbery
Efap has not been the same without wolf it really showed during the game of thrones debate by comparisons and not so great debate
You were important to us wolf a lot of people
Wanted you to kill the man
Believe me. I mean I couldn't finish that because as soon as he I mean I was telling mauler about it
Like once I got to the part of the debate where he said
Uh, like why would catlin trust littlefinger? I think I would have just left the call
I don't think I would have been able to handle it at this point like that is a level of stupid
My brain cannot take
Yeah, we were he even said that we were we were too nice. I was like well
It's just you weren't where if if we if we're too mean and we considered bullies who never like bring people on to actually defend
Themselves, we just we just attack them. But then if we're too nice
We've also failed to probe our guests or something. So it's like you're trying to do your best and yeah
We got some choice highlights
Yeah, that got to balance your attitude for the guests on
razor's edge. I mean
We got him saying some stuff that
Like I don't know I always if the if the goal is to not actually have any of the members of the debate
Necessarily decide to agree or disagree on every particular thing that is about the audience
I mean, I think you guys heard it out and you can make your own decisions
on
What arguments you thought were um fruitful, you know
Just just wolf never heard the part with the the denarius
Defense I told him about it though
Oh, he did that was that was rough. That was rough
That was hoping my perspective of game of thrones. I would be like that
All right. So if I don't know much about game of thrones convince me
I'm like, oh no, that's not no not like that
Uh
First super chat. Thanks for all the great and entertaining content. Love all of you rags, especially from bringing me here. So hi rags
Thanks wolf. Oh, hello
Yeah, the cosmic jab what makes good jab
Kingdom jab deliverance the big jabowski
jab battle bush
How could you do this to me? I actually had sunday off this week. Also. Hey wolf
All right. I'm so sorry. Here's some money for wall of
jab
Jebidescent a legend of the jeblands by jeb bleach
Jebel
Hi regs legend of the jeb. Hello. Hey there, uh wrath of jeb jeb and morty
um
Mauler to answer your question question weeks ago on efap facebook page
You've had I think they mean subreddit maybe no i'm
Uh hux and finna leading the charge for predictions of most inconsistent characters for episode nine
I thought it was um
Look
Uh fin and po
Yeah, ray and hux have the same votes. Oh unless he's talking unless this is about like a poll that was ran on a facebook page
But yeah fair enough
We're we're more than ready and excited to see. Yeah, that right. Just what the results are gonna be
Uh, hi rags
Hey
Fantastic beasts and we're to jab them
Jebman begins
Jebman begins
Rags is a new stripper name fantastic beast
fantastic beast
Thanks to wolf. I watched all three lord the rings films got a bunch of friends together and did it all in one day. Hey
It better have been the extended editions. I'm sure they wouldn't make that mistake. I'm sure i'm sure it was
They wouldn't make the mistake of telling me that
Jenny is a retard and with a woman. Wow
Oh, no
Shut up lid to cook get married and lid some decency fair boys
Oh my goodness
Joker isn't meant for your pea brain
I I would agree with the last part
I mean, I don't know if she saw the film. Can we be sure she saw joker? I don't know
I think that's the thing. It's odd that you would
Once again, we are asking ourselves with these bad joker takes
Did you see joker?
Choose rose is a major character in rise of skywalker or she's only in a throwaway line saying she's pregnant with finn's babies
What think about how powerful that super minority will be super minority
Um, I guess I would vote for the single line
And it just
Yeah, I'll accept the single line. She's a general
Wow, I don't know what is
Like it takes it took three years to be a general people work normally work on that shit for their whole fucking life
Well in fairness, there was a whole bunch of them left
Yeah, I guess she's one of the old guard one of the 20 that survived or whatever and she did kill a bunch of people
Like that's the fast track right there
Oh, I mean, you know they were on his side but still general not fighting what we hate
Um, hi jeb
The smoking scene bitch which one
That's a fair point actually hello wolf my enniest n-word
Enniest
Enniest the most enniest of all the n-words
Good thing I have someone going for me. Yeah, boy
uh
Mollie you wonderful welshman tell us the tale of blodouette, uh
I'm unfamiliar with that. I'm
Is that like a it's probably like a welsh folktale or something then tell us the tale of captain jack sparrow
Captain jack jeb
captain jeb sparrow
Oh god, have you guys ever seen the moon moon?
Sounds familiar actually
It's like a
Well, it's a wolf. It's like the someone's name
On a uh, like what's your werewolf name? It's
And they just happened to get moon moon for their name
And the person was like man, my name's moon moon. I must be like the most retarded wolf
So that's what that comes from yeah, I know
It spawned a bunch of people making names of like wolves like pictures of wolves doing really stupid shit and then
They're like god damn it moon moon. You're such a retard. I'm just thinking of jeb jeb instead
Jeb jeb jeb
Uh, also a high rag mola kick j off a roof
well
Sometimes you just gotta go
Sometimes it's just you know
I'm not saying I would choke her well past the point if you're not enjoying it
But I would choke it well past the point of her not enjoying it
All right
precious crystal jeb boys
Broke my leg in a motorcycle accident spent the last couple of weeks in recovery watching all of efap from the beginning
Well done my head. Wow
Wow, that is
That's that is impressive
I was about to say what's the counter up to right now?
How long does it take to watch it all?
It takes 15 days and 20 hours to watch all of efap right now
My god, jesus christ
He's asleep
15 days
And by the time oh that means by the if you started watching efap then by the time you finished watching efap
At least two more efaps would have been made. Yep. Oh even more because of the batwoman stuff and yeah
And if the movies finally get released
Eventually, yes
Uh, here's a few bucks for some rhino milk all hail the dawn and high rags. I'll hail the dawn and hello
Meryl Streep sings great if you turn your ears off
uh
To people who unironically watch jenny nicholson
Jeb nickels
You probably know exactly where I think you should go the same place to which jenny should go. I think he's referring to a rooftop
Oh east side of the roof
What's your favorite soup? Mine is run cut. I don't know what that is. What is what is what is that?
Run cut could you spell it, please? Are you n-k-u-t? I'm in
Wait, what?
Are you in k-u-t? Uh, just run cut. Are you in k-u-t? I'm gonna i'm gonna like all right. I just
run cut
uh
Soup maybe i'm reading it wrong best soups of all time. Uh
Did run are are you in g-k-u-t?
Run cut. Well, I just had a look. I couldn't find results. He just says what's your favorite soup?
I think this is run cut. Are you in g-k-u-t?
Um
Uh
I just like
I don't know any soups really
Yeah
Kind of shit you just buy at the store
Yeah, i'm not a big soup guy
But i've got i've always got chicken noodle if I need just like a quick snack or something
Chicken noodle or there's this one I try. I was really really good. Oh my god
Yeah, I I don't
Uh, it was like steak and potatoes
Really good
I'm not i'm not really too picky with it. Mm-hmm
But I can't say i've tried any like gourmet soups by any stretch
Uh
No, I don't want to sign up fuck no, let me just go to the website fuck you
I got it
Thrill list, how do I make you go away?
I
Can't wow, this is why adblock exists. Wow. No, this is a part of the site. It's not. Oh, there's the exit find it
Uh run
Right, I don't know what kind of soup that is
I don't I don't know what run cut soup is just chicken noodle for me. Just simple
I'm not a big soup guy looks like suzy from game chumps, but even worst
I remember here
Um, I thought rgj was rdj was black for years
Really?
I was trying to think thunder. I like that there would be a bunch of people who would think that naturally
But at the end of yeah, but what if they thought that was like the reverse if you know what I mean
Yeah, they thought he was black but it but at the end of the movie he
again
takes off
Well, it's natural that there would at least be some people who still think it
Is
I I love the idea. I love the idea that there is someone out there who watched all of tropic thunder and he came away
He was white at the beginning of the movie though
That was just makeup. It shows him the first time you see him. He's black
No, the first time you see him is when it's getting like oh the movie
Well, yeah, there's the movie trailer
the
The the footage I'm getting the surgery is after you see him
Uh in the first like filming moment where they're doing the thing
It's like the intro and then
Uh, it's it's tug watching it on tv that he sees that that whole bit
No, but I agree with you it would be hard for them to conclude that but hey some people did
Some people like batwoman so
Yeah, there you go
I think it is pretty funny that someone actually thought he was black
I can see why they thought that
Uh rags tell us a fairy convention slash hotel horror story
well, um
I don't I don't there's not much crossover there. I know that um
Let me see a horror story
I'd have to think
But it's not necessarily a lot of big stuff. It's a lot of little stuff that adds up. Let me think though. Um
We had an anime convention at our hotel once and there were furries there
And a lot of people like all the people I worked with thought it was really weird
Um normies think that shit is weird just just to all of you guys just
Put that out there
Normies think fursuits are weird. I think fursuits are weird
Um
but I guess um
hmm
I don't know about horror stories. I guess just there'd be a lot of typical
It was really busy and stuff like that. And so things got hectic. I'd have to think um
Oh, yeah, I'd have to think you have to give me some time to think there's a lot just a lot of stuff to pull from
I like that one good but short one, you know
Um
Why you know what scratch sending her to a rooftop boys we're giving her the randal treatment instead that's a joke youtube
Like the guy in the movie the joker
All right, samurai jeb gallons of fantastic beast glop
Darn it you massive. No, I have to see joker brb and much love to you wolf glad he's doing well
Yeah, jeb des jeb disney, okay
oh, um
I uh, I guess a really quick story
I
Was working late there one day
Uh, because I was a lot younger wanted to make a lot of money and it was a fun job
uh
And we would often and I was a valet at the time
But because of this hotel valet would often get pulled to do a lot of other stuff bus driver
Um pick people take people to the airport concierge stuff like that
One time it was really late like midnight ish
and I was asked to
take a bottle of wine and wine glasses up to a room
and
the
And and I went up to the road like I said midnight or so bottle of wine with me
a couple wine glasses
um
Knock on the door say hey i'm such and such
You know bringing some stuff up to you
Woman opens the door
Just all she's wearing is just some all she's wearing is just some like black lacy panties and that's it
Boobs hanging out. Um
There's a naked guy on the bed in the back
and she says
I think they've been clearly already been drinking because she was very super cash about just opening the door
Like that to just some person delivering it
And I was I was obviously kind of taken aback, especially you know then
uh
At the at the surprise boobage and she's pretty good looking
And she was like, oh wow, basically, uh, she said like oh wow
Uh, thanks so much for bringing all this stuff up. Like we really really need that we ran out of booze
Sort of thing and she asked if I wanted to come in and join them
and I declined
I was on the clock and everything at the time and plus we're two strangers
Clearly been drinking a whole bunch
But I was that was one of the weird things that happens to you if you work at a really big hotel
That does conventions and parties and stuff and when you work especially at the night shift crazy shit happens
Just crazy stuff can happen like that. And
It's just weird. It's a weird job
Uh definitely contest your comfort zone at times, but it helped me out
It is one of those weird things that happened at all. I'll never forget
Someone said her jibs were showing her jibs were showing
I love how the jeb means a thing now. I enjoy that
It's all just because
all because I
I I stumbled upon the the jeb photoshop of joker and was like, oh
We're gonna be doing a joker episode. I need to use that as my pfp
So now it's a beam wonderful will be living that that was possible
Jeb's no jab at the seven cloud
Give us cinema roberto, please and hi wolf and rags. He will come one day. Hey
Oh another story real quick. Sorry. Um, I could just because I thought of it. It's really quick. Um, it was late one night
late one night, um, it was
probably
10 11 or so doing the night shift like I did my first essentially whole year there
Really slow in the lobby just talking with the buddy at the front desk
and then
The loudest sound i'd probably ever heard in my life
Rings across the entire lobby and it's a big lobby and we've got mar really well done marble floors
Really kind of nice looking place
It's like an actual gunshot ring out loudest sign i've ever heard in my life
I I cannot state how loud this was scared the shit out of everybody
Someone had taken a bell cart
And brought it up to like the 15th or something floor and threw it off the side
And it fell all the way down
and smacked
into the marble of the lobby
Um, and it landed with jet like I cannot overstate how loud it was
Um smashed some of the tiles it busted apart wheels flew off
one of the most insane things ever that
Were they punished for that?
Absolutely, as far as I know. Um
because security was called
Um, they could have killed somebody. Absolutely. Absolutely. They could have called so they could have killed someone if someone was down there
I mean if somebody was hit by like one of the pieces of metal that flew off that that could have killed someone
But it was just the most crazy thing to do because it was just someone now
I I don't know why they did it probably drunk and stupid
but it was just
It's it was insane. Absolutely insane, but that's the kind of thing that happens. This is another another hotel story
um
It was insane
On another note, there's a guy
In the chat who's who's penning the word uh the term jeb posting for
For all the jeb memes
Uh, oh and um, I guess as a side note apparently those those
Cart those luggage carts apparently they're quite expensive
Um, apparently they can be like a grand each they can be for whatever reason
Expensive they don't look that expensive. Yeah, but I guess they're built at least these ones were I guess they're built to be really sturdy
So you could use them basically forever
But um there they could be quite expensive. That's what I'm told
so
Yeah
Uh, bro, this one's going into my reasons famoids shouldn't vote collection who takes actually worse than black pills efap to your take
But what is apparent black pills?
Uh, I don't know. He has a take on the same level as us is the I didn't realize that I would take on
Joker was bad
I didn't either
I thought we I thought we
Were pretty clear about why we think the things that we think about this film
Oh, wow, um
So, okay someone said rags has stories about drunk couples inviting him to bang but he's never heard the wedding registry
How do those mix in any way how how would one those aren't related in any possible way
How many times have you even been to a wedding
Just once i've just i've only been to one wedding. Yeah
I'm going to another in december, but
Just never been doing I wanted to clarify. That means it deserves to be on efap. Yeah
Oh, okay. I gotcha. I got you. We got you raw. We got you
Side note mila's got a solid take on joker and obviously nick. Fuentes has the best take of all
Okay
Milo, you know assuming. You know, please. Yeah
Yeah, I mean i've i've never known
either of them to be like stupid
And I disagree with them both on numerous things
But they're not stupid. I mean, well, let's just assume they actually watch the film. That'll be a good start to put them
Oh, yeah
A low bar for us here at efap wolf. Oh, this is the one
I guess i'll read it out again
Remember to get your daily dose of halo for the prequels of nickelback also high rag zebala tyminate dark
Whoa, it was an abomination watch master and commander instead. It's good shit. Oh, yeah, that's anomaly ink, isn't it?
I remember when he said that and I was like, it's an odd movie to bring up though. I do agree
Master and commander is not is a movie that I wouldn't mind rewatching and wolf will
Eventually give up on those and admit they're good i'm sure right wolf
What the halo for nickelback and the prequels he will admit they're good at some point
Oh wait, but the prequels are good they're amazing incredible even
Frank do you know what a hero is? 99 times out of 100
He's somebody who's tired enough and cold enough and hungry enough not to give a damn. I don't give a damn
And that's a quote from hawkeye apparently
Hawkeye that seems like a thing that he'd say
Jeb call back
Jeb call back
Jeb call back, uh got a razor work this past week. I wanted to celebrate with a super chat to my favorite podcast on the internet
It's great to see you again wolf. Also. Hi rags. Oh, hello. Uh, thank you much and
Congratulations on the raise always good to get one of those
Always good to get one of those
I wouldn't know i've never had a no way. I did have one raise
My first job was at a burger king and I got a 10 cent raise
I went from 7 25 to 7 35. Yay. Hey, that's an extra 15 cents an hour, which every day is like
After taxes, you know a dollar every week. That's five extra bucks. So at the end of the month you're making
20 bucks
extra a month
and at the end of the year, that's that's like
240
And I only worked there for like eight months before I quit. That's like
2,000 four two thousand four hundred dollars. Well, that's nothing to scoff at, you know
If yeah, if you worked there for a hundred years, I mean that adds up
Cinema jabs
Dude bro, dude, bro is our witch she's even using the hard o dude bra I could excuse
but the hard oh
Yeah, I know
She just can't just keep doing that. We'll be back that it will. Yeah, sure
Critical said he liked dark fate
I like the concern that is in that super chat
Like no, please. No, like I said, i'll check out his take i'll see what he's see what he's his his uh
What he felt what he saw what he reports. It'll be interesting
Jeb dolf the gray
Hi rags wolf mauler glad to hear your voice wolf. Hope you're doing well
I decided to rewatch the lord of the rings and the hobbit films
What character is your favorite and least favorite my favorite's aragorn and least is frodo. I think he's answered this before
sam's my favorite
But we will sam's my favorite character. I will save that. I love the second he goes as a question for
Put a tab on it. Uh, hey wolf. All right, i'm gonna save this one too
Why did this just happen
It's always so very inconvenient see if someone was watching this as a film they'd be like, oh, yeah, okay
Yeah, the question two questions come up for him the second he leaves. Okay
Jeb lakoste
Jebifah gana
Jeb lakoste
If jenny ever showed up on efap i'd
Oh my i'd brick her tiny femoid brain by telling her i'm a dude bro who ran a frat
And also an afghan person of color immigrant her woke processor would short circuit as I flicked metaphorical french fries at her
Oh, no. Okay, not french flies french fries
French french fries
Uh jab in the sky with diamonds
Jeb's bonus
And zack with break their legs raw. Oh my oh, oh my fucking god. Is that wolf? Yes from russia with jeb
Don't read this oh and hi rags
Hey
The tism is strong with this one
Star jeb two the wrath of trump
You could have gone with the wrath of bush there as well. I would have accepted that both good
Do you share this with rags you'd better? Um, yes
Uh downward downward dollops
Downward delaps dollops will collapse
When will we get another unbridled praise?
It's like the gaming thing
Even if someone someone could say when's the next been bridled rage and i'd be like, yeah
I don't 100 know exactly timelines for everything and it's all going to be stuff. I want to make it's all on the way
No, no promise zero i've got until august of next year to make tfa part three still. I remember that was the thing. So
Just gotta make sure make sure I get that done. Um
Also, hi rags. Hey, hope the boost didn't cause any trouble
The boost yeah, it just says the boost who who said that uh, this year the hyland
I think he's the one who boosted my server and got us to 30 which made us a level three server a discord server
And that caused no problems at all. No, if that's the case then no, no problems. That's good
I need to oh, uh, one of that means that one of my chat rooms can be at 384
Kilobits per second kilobytes per second
So I need to test it out and see if people can hear the difference
Are you saying tonaled is out of thrusts like an oldman?
Well, I mean what else can we assume at this point? I don't know man
Apparently you can say
The mind of tonaled is he's not thrusting like he used to could I say that I think so
Well, that's true. He isn't
Uh, fuck notifications really screwed me. Hi wolf
You would say hi back
He would say hi back in his heart. He's saying hi right now. I bet jenny
This is my one and final warning delete your channel and live a humble christian life or else the grippers will come for you
The grippers what?
Jenny has an imbalanced milk carton in his skull. No jeb's in there
Jeb longbone won't stop saying the n-word
Jeb longbone
Uh arthur isn't mentally ill in an
Sri guzzling birth control addicted come down by a dozen strangers every weekend childless and disowned by family kind of way
No, he's just a toxic man
All right
And critics like her will deadass call the last jedi deep and thought out and well meaning until it's a space wizard movie for children
Like I said, it's really hard to keep track of the rules
No consistency no criteria
A baseline
Arthur's arthur's fits seem to be tied to his attempts at socializing. He doesn't have them when he's alone
Joker does not care for society. He's always alone
Oh, I mean they definitely seem to be brought on by interactions of some kind. Um
I think he wants to be able to be social. Yeah
Um, but then again, you know, maybe we're not shown the times he's laughing when he's alone
Um
But I I can agree with that take could someone deep fake hair onto robert deniro clip. Oh my
Oh no
Uh alternate ending joker. What does a funny man do and people?
Only when he's in pain you commit to the bit arthur then kills himself on live tv
uh
I mean they could have gone with him actually killing himself in that film and the um another joker comes as a result of
What he did but yeah
It instantly swaps to the
Someone watching the television broadcast of it some
Young guy similar to him in a lot of ways and it story picks up from there who knows
Could have worked. I like the way that they did it though
Uh, can we chunk her off the empire state building yet?
No, no, not at that point. She wasn't done yet
Uh, it's framed as his mother's fault. Oh my god
She adopted a little baby to get wayne to marry her you hollow skulled manatee. I actually hate this bitch
We got the same thing about um
the same thing with
Movie bob saying that all of your problems can just be traced back to a woman or a woman's fault essentially
He's like no, she did a really shitty thing and she's definitely culpable
Yeah for the stuff that she did to him
I
Mean not saying she should have been you know killed
I hope everyone's having a good weekend was wondering if y'all have ever heard of it's a gundam
I think you'd make a great efap guest also a high rag part of him. Yeah. Yeah. I've heard of him
I uh, but I don't yeah, I don't know much about him while you were gone. There's been two things for you off
who
uh, the first one says
Uh
I decided to rewatch lord of the rings in the hobbit films
What character is your least favorite and most favorite and they said their picks were aragorn for most and frodo for least?
Oh across both
Uh, I guess yeah, which means you may as well just discount the hobbit film
Oh, then again no for least favorite I suppose yeah
Okay, well if we're if we're doing them both
then uh
Favorite is aragorn
I I can't even say least favorite because least favorite doesn't do enough justice to how much I hate this character
um
I think I know who you're gonna choose. Yeah, it's the guy from the hobbit that alfred alfred worst character ever introduced
He's the guy who dresses up as a woman. You haven't seen the movies here, right? Right? So have you yeah, I have
Okay, I know who you're talking about now that you mention it. Yeah, she's the absolute worst character
He's pretty terrible. That's true
Does he ever have like an arc in the end or something?
He dresses up as a woman puts a bunch of change in his bra and then gets killed by a troll
Yeah, he's just he's proven to be an annoying coward's
asshole and yeah
Wow that moment when grim a worm tongue has
quasi semi-redemption than you do
Uh, and the second one says hey wolf say damn it. He's getting gayer as he fights like you're in a struggle
Oh, wait what I will this is acting wolf
This is the big leagues. This is what you this is what you signed up for
Okay
Damn it. He's getting gayer as he fights
Now this time like it's not an anime
Oh
Damn rags. What am I exercising your acting? I'm fucking with you. That was great
What else I don't know how else to say that was beautiful. Just like that. I have to say it in an anime way because otherwise
Anime is the only thing that's bad enough to allow that
Well anime and ryan johnson
Um
Biggittiest just super john says biggittiest. Yeah joker is almost one
Wow
Yeah, I kind of hope it gets there man. Like it it has recently crossed batman v superman
Like I said, like I was so surprised when I went to go see the movie yesterday and saw so many people in the theater still
There was a good at least half of the theater was
Really?
Yeah
I mean I got there and I was like, oh wow
Watch the lore into this movie
Uh great to see you back wolf. It's nice to see you fine and to hear see you there
We'll be seeing you from time to time. Hi mauler. Hi rags. Hello. Hey
Wolf, is it bad that my favorite scene in the hobbit is seeing Frodo back in the first scene?
Not at all
Um, I want to send griper death squads after the people who fund this woman go to scraper not sure
I have no idea what that means. Holy shit wolf. Glad you're back. Dude. Have you been how's your kitten?
Oh, uh, I've been doing better. Uh
Kitten's doing pretty good
He's uh
He's just running around and stuff. He's not sick anymore, which is nice
He's doing good
Unsick kittens are better than sick kittens. Yeah, he was uh, what's your
What is your feline's name? His name is hugh catman hugh catman. Yes
Call him hui for short hui. I can post a picture if you guys want go for sure
All right
That that dad
Yeah, here's a good one
There we go. Oh
Beth he's older than I thought you said kitten. I was
Well, he's like six months or no seven months now. Oh, okay
So oh he's eating a little boat
No, he's just a basket
Oh, okay. Okay with the table. I was the table was like wait
Yeah, I know the the table is uh, it's like glass top with a painting beneath it
But he's just sitting in a basket that was just set on the table cat basket
So you can carry your cat wherever you go
I want to see the cat. It's right there. It's okay. Yeah, it's a nice cat. Good looking cat
Yeah, he climbed on my shoulder when I took him out of the gate and I was like, yeah your your mind now
That's all I get you
It was really difficult because there's like
Something like 80 or 90 cats there really
Yeah, the the people at the humane society were telling me like they get so many animals
Like they have trouble like accommodating space for all of them
Yeah, and there were so many like like there were a couple
uh
Couple like two that were like two there was a two-year-old and a three-year-old
uh right next to each other and they were both like reaching their paws out of the cage trying to get like
Tap at me and I was like, oh I kind of want to take you both home
And I saw him and I heard him like sniffling and then you look kind of
Sad in his crate and I was like, uh, let me like pet you a little bit and as soon as I took him out
He climbed up on my shoulder
And just sat there and I was like, you know, you're such a such a sweetheart
I
Guess the I guess the move from zero cats to one cat is much greater than the move from one cat to two cat
I'm guessing but I don't know
So well, I cannot see who knows
Who can say yeah, he's a he's a good boy. He's a good hugh catman
excellent
Hi rags
Hello, it was nice to meet you at the top hats and champagne meetup last week
How was the tram or thing at the space chocolate factory?
It was pretty nifty. We went to the space center
Houston and the tram tour took us around a lot of the administration and test facilities they have over there
that they use for the space centers
but they do a lot of studies on humans and microgravity and
a lot of tech stuff like that a lot of sciencey things and we went to the original mission control where the uh
Apollo missions were headed up and they had it all restored and
Just as it was back during the moon landings and it was really cool to go up in the building and see all that stuff
Also, it was a lovely day for it there
Also glad to see wolf is back
Uh
Jenny Nicholson speaks her mind smash cuts me repeatedly slamming my head on a door
Oh, no ras dying
Poor guy i'm totally convinced that we have this all this post-modernist stuff is because McCarthy never got rid of all the communists in hollywood
Could we could you be certain that that's what led to something like the last jedi is there a causal link?
Hey molar remember when you said you like this girl you regret it now someone pour water on her and make her realize she's made
An ass out of herself. I mean like I said, she's made she's made some videos
I thought were good. Maybe I need to rewash them
I don't know
I don't know, man
Jeb through the hills
Jeb for your
It's gonna be a musical uh covers with jeb this is definitely a possibility
Then this one just says are you question mark?
Ah, uh
Are you I don't know. I I mean are you
Wow, just realized joker's theme was please clap
What's the theme of the movie? Oh
Uh, finally called a live stream have been wanting to donate for a while one question for you all if you could be any
bird, what bird would you be?
hmm
Why some like bad-ass bird?
I don't know
Some kind of some kind of like a falcon or an eagle or a
Secretary bird or something. I don't know something that's why it's hairy bird. Yeah a secretary bird. You ever seen one of those?
No
Yeah, let me get you a picture they're fucking badass
Secretary bird. Yeah, dude. Here's a here's a picture. No idea what that what's that supposed to be
Really copy image copy image and i'll paste it here for you
Yeah
That's a secretary bird, huh they fuck up like snakes and stuff
You know when you when you say secretary bird I think of like a bird wearing a secretary
Just sitting at a desk a reasonable thing to assume
Can you count owls?
Um, there are owls birds
Yeah, all right. All right. So in your mind, why do you think we would say no?
Well, I don't know
All right, then we are that all right, but to answer your question, yes owls are a a viable candidate on the topic of birds
What kind of owls are there?
Are there any owls that are not birds? I don't know
Well, no, I just don't know the names of many owls
Yeah, like barn owls and snow owls
What are the ones that look like giant ass horns on their head cave the great horned owl cave owls
No, I think they're just called horned owls, what about bats? Yeah, just horned owls bats
I'm, sorry. I'm, sorry wolf. Um bats aren't birds. This isn't the bible
bats are mammals
All right
Welcome to epaf everyone. I can't believe you. Well, i'm trying to think of birds that I
Actually, he's trying to force
Into another category. Why do you want to be a bat so much anyway?
I like what bird would you like to be do owls count? Obviously. Yes, and then he had the follow-up. All right, do bats
He doesn't even ask if they already just said bats
No, I just said what about bats. What about bats? They're not birds
Yeah
What did you think they were?
I'm, just trying to think of anything that flies that isn't like
I don't know
Something yet that I would even want to care about being
Oh
Oh, i'll go with eagle. I'll just go i'll go with something generic and say falcon
Yeah, that would be fine. I would want to eat like critters not bugs so much
Like i'd fuck up a rattlesnake if I was a secretary bird
Fuck up snakes with my long-ass talons and my big legs
I just eat that bitch
I bet snake tastes good. I don't think i've ever had a rattlesnake. I haven't or I always say rattlesnake
That's probably just the american in me. But yeah, i'd fuck up a snake, man
If you're a snake man
Look out watch out watch out man
Shadow and rex are coming for you
Hmm now, I actually think snakes are really cool. Hey guys, keep up the great work and welcome back wolf
Yeah, no, it's abandoned and you get what you fucking deserve
I'm, not sure that's referencing. Uh the second part I get it, but it's abandoned
Um mullah, what do you say?
Is the best adult cartoon show future armor south park bowjack horseman or any adult cartoon show you can think of?
I mean is future armor an adult cartoon show?
I would say so. Yeah, what are we classifying as adult?
Adult swim, um
maybe
Adult humor stuff that kids generally wouldn't be allowed to watch
Yeah, if you come up with an example, we can probably decide but probably no strict criteria per se but um
You know, I saw it. I was watching future armor when I was a kid
Like I don't remember that being yeah, I I would still classify it as an adult cartoon
But like south park is way more adult than future armor correct
So if we're gonna have a classification that separates those two
Well, there are adult things around a spectrum
I mean hardcore anal porn is adult but so are race cars
Her race cars is like because you have to be you have to have like a driver's
Futurama is pretty tame honestly thinking about it
You know, i'm trying to think about it but the
Well, i've the only time i've ever really seen futurama is when i'm really high. So by the time it's over
I remember liking it, but I don't actually
Yeah
Um, well, yeah, I mean anyway out of the out of the suggestions my favorite I prefer futurama to south park. Um,
um, uh
I do too. I think it's it's you know
well, I
What about king of the hill?
I'm not a fan of king of the hill
No
There's a couple episodes. I watched that. I really like uh, that's fun
I
Mean i'd say it's probably adults because like what kid would watch king of the hill and come away
Yeah, that's true
It's not made with kids in mind. I don't think
No, not at all. Yeah, they're not trying to appeal to kids. I guess i'm sure it would be for consideration as well
I suppose. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Archer would be an adult one. Yeah
Because there's like, you know adult stuff
God damn it jebby
God damn it jeb
Um, i'm going to bill cozby here. Oh my
I wanted to say this for a dark fate stream. The terminator as a dad was a robot chicken sketch. What you're gonna deliver her
baby
I don't know what you mean
Yeah
Uploaded to youtube on may 1st, 2014 hollywood isn't even original in their own horrible plot points
I mean they did it pretty rushed. Anyway, the whole dad terminator
Uh, bill cozby was a joke just fyi. I I know I know I yes
It's like she reaches some conclusion in her head about what the movie's going for then spins the things that happen around that idea rather
Than watching the movie and using the context to get the message. It's actually going for
I agree
Well, like I said, I I think that there's a point there. I was like, I think she's kind of working backwards here
Um
Hi massives, would you please document and categorize all the jeb related jeb-ments? I need this for my jeb-boards. Thank you
Jeb-boards, I guess
I don't know how to categorize such jeb jeblings
Jeblings your beauty for jeblings
Because this is tears up tears up night and no one's gonna save jeb from the jerry about the strike
Michael jebson
Did j from red letter media change his mind on joker yet not from what i've heard
They haven't talked about it again. So themes is unironically this community's n-word
I'm a writer and i'm starting to hate themes
They're ruining them
I'm moist jeb tannic episode nine should have been memphis bell in space
This is the kind of efap where the guys are just mad at a bad video instead of losing their minds over a hilarious video
Where memes are born every minute
We had quite a few memes. Yeah, this this video was pretty thick with the jeb thing really took off
It was just bleeding memes everywhere. Yeah, it was jeb absolutely
Dominated the field of all the candidates tonight jeb jess. He took it to a new level. I didn't know that
Actually, i'm proud of jeb for the first time the first time jeb's a winner
Congratulations, jeb. Yeah, I think I just felt a tear
Nice work
uh, I would have never thought we would have managed to turn jeb bush into a meme, but
I mean granted he was already a meme, but
You know, you guys are getting themes and moral of the story mixed up
uh
That's not necessarily applicable
the thing about theme that a lot of people seem to miss is that uh
Everyone thinks is one definition when it comes to storytelling theme can apply to a lot of different things a moral a message an idea
Literally a color
This this it depends on what you're talking about specifically
um as you saw with jenny she was gunning for um
What is the message of the film when she said theme and that's fine with me
If someone said there was a clear theme of blue on red throughout many of the different scenes in the movie trying to
Say something about contrast if someone said that again i'd be fine with it. I really don't mind
I'm not as much of an asshole when it comes to the word theme. I just want to know
What you're using it for and then work from that because everyone was um
Saying that I was misunderstanding it when I was talking about it in the tlj critique and I was like i'm really not
If you look at how people use this word when discussing
A lot of different things in storytelling it can be applicable to a lot of different things and that's fine with me
If you want to say that no you're talking about a moral
I'd be like a moral can be encompassed within the umbrella term theme depending on what you're discussing. So it's fine
Themes to joker are mental illness or violence in society not a concluding message. I don't even agree with that
I think there is a message in joker and it's thematically relevant in that a lot of the scenes
Would go very different ways if people were a lot kinder to each other
Um, some things are a little bit more out of hand than that
Uh, but I still think that it it's pretty intrinsic to a lot of the events in the film
um
So yeah
Yeah, and it ends with hi maula. Hello
She looks like a loy from the robot mammoth game
Oh, yeah event not our event horizon something horizon
Horizon zero dawn
Zero dawn aloy. I love the idea that it's like a loy from the robot mammoth game event horizon. I'm like what?
Event horizon, you know the robot mammoth game
um
This woman is prolonging my migraine. Fortunately sans is in smash brothers. Also you guys are inspiring real talk
Why thank you and i'm still glad that sans is in smash brothers. That's every fab he says that
But
It's it's good. It's an overall it's it's a little good
Um
Jenny heard there was a secret chord that phillips played and it pleased the lord, but you don't really care for movies. Do you?
Uh, well, it goes like this the wolf's deep dish the roller skull and the sheep swish the baffle chat composing
jebaluia
Maluia praise the lord
Uh, hello massives manga slash anime recommendation for wolf beast stars
Yes again
Which i'm writing an unbridled
PSK breakdown of all right
Should it be a video and i'm gonna look it up beast stars and that's it's like beast
beast
ours beast beast
Okay, okay, yeah
Uh, oh oh i've seen animations for this on youtube
I mean it's all in chinese, so I can't actually understand any of it, but i've definitely heard of this
Or at least seen it around
Um, and yeah, should it be a video podcast or blog post he's asking about his breakdown of this thing
Go with your heart. I guess I wouldn't want to say do a video if it means you have to do a lot of stuff
You don't necessarily want to do whatever format really works for you. I would say
Yeah
Um, that's japanese. Oh
I'm a huge movie talker
I talk and make jokes during every movie that I see in theaters all three times. I saw joker in theaters
I was silent absolutely captivating
It's ironic in fairness chat. I heard I I was told not told
I just saw someone in like a comment or a video or whatever that said it was chinese and I didn't know
Looked into it free han kong like I literally know nothing about this
existence
Uh, why is it that in order to be a reviewer you have to be some lovable tub with no self thought by consume, etc
Someone throw her off raza rooftop
Nothing can lie
Okay, so that guy who said are you has now the next one says are you on question mark?
And I think I can see that there's another one coming the extent so I have to see where this is what this becomes
Are you on yeah? Oh
What will the message say at the end?
I think the next one I can see where it might be going when we get there
This thing can vote in elections. Think about that
raw
Uh $50 for the wolf it's nice to see you back online and I wish you the best
All right
Um
I'm guessing she never saw the american tail up monster's ink the secret of nim willy wonker the chocolate factory
I could keep going but you get my point
Oh, we do that. Fucking scorpion in the hole and final goes west scared the shit
Uh maula attenborough is exactly what I needed today. Oh shit. Yeah, remember that like six hours ago. I do remember that
That was was that yesterday? Yeah, definitely yesterday. Well, actually it might ought to be for me. I'm at five and up
I nearly said five and a half a.m.
That works five and a half. I mean sure
No joke. I actually have bloodied and bandaged knuckles from last night and listening to this thing has made me want to do a repeat
Oh my
Bloody and bandaged knuckles. I don't know what he's been doing punching stuff. Oh my goodness. Raw
I just raw part of the club that I can't talk about possibly the punching the cool kids club
But
Arthur is more lucid and competent and clear-headed when he's off his meds
The problem is he also thinks murder is funny and he should do it
Well, I mean, I don't understand that comment. Isn't the movie trying to say medicine is bad for everyone. I thought that was oh, yeah
my bad
Meds are bad. Mm. Okay. Jevy nickels
Welcome back wolf your rants got me through many a work day
Sweet
Glad to see wolf return unless he was already back before give him my best and tell him i'm glad to see he's on efap again
Hey wolf. This guy is uh, he's really glad to see you on efap again
So i've heard
Uh me thinks jebby nickels is mentally defective
No, honestly, the problem is she just didn't watch the movie. All right, that's probably what it was
She read a synopsis
And she decided to review it from that
All right, so this is like does she ever refer to any she a couple times she's like there's a scene where dah dah dah and
almost like
I was I was really hoping she would mention what scene she's actually referring to, you know
But she never does so i'm like, oh, I guess am I gonna see we recognize but then she just gets several details wrong
We're like hang on
Um
Was it six hours into the stream for those who missed it
They can't reach that now it's too far gone
Uh, so yeah, so continuing from are you to are you on it is now are you on your
But I think we could probably guess where that's going
I don't not have no idea. All right. All right. I couldn't even hazard a guess
so this one says
Ah, I wish you a happy halloween too
Hope that's close. I hope that you are. I don't speak not american. Yeah, I don't speak moon language
Moon moon. Sure. That's what we speak
Imagine raising the white balance on your camera so high. Is she onision?
Oh, no, i've never seen them in the same room. He was bail. That is true though. Hmm. The mass media needs to die
No, it'll just change. I don't think it'll die
It'll keep on changing the last jedi was responsibly specific
Irresponsibly vague you remember that bit
You're oh, yeah, that's right
That was that was something else mass shootings and incel shootings are the same thing
I guess actually jenny blacks commit almost all mass shootings and over half of all
Rape. Oh, right. So no mass shootings and incel shootings are not the same thing. It was a weird
Insoles not a race thing you're gonna be an incel and black or an incel and white true
Uh, me and my friends found joker hilarious. Are we incels?
Yep. Well, if you've watched the film you're an incel. I mean if you watched and enjoyed the film you're an incel
Uh describing he didn't see it. She's not an incel. No, of course, she didn't see it
But she didn't enjoy it anyway, or she wouldn't have so
She's immune to such things. She would never become an incel
Couldn't even hazard I guess describing things as great is bad now
I guess like I said, she just automatically concludes that the person saying that was great is someone saying murder is good
I don't know why that's weird
Um, my biggest gripe with the talk show scene is how many times a network exec might have intervened long before murray was shot
Also, hi rags. I've yeah, I don't know. I felt it was natural because uh deniro is
clearly overruling the producer
Yeah, I I can understand why that would be a uh, that might draw people out of it a little bit
I can see why people say that
Um, but I like when I was watching it
I was like, oh the producer was clearly trying to stop it
But deniro is clearly taking this opportunity to sort of yeah, it's taken charge. He's yeah
Like he's like what you did was horrible getting him to sort of
He's almost addressing it with him live on tv in front of all these people
Like it's I I imagine that deniro wanted it until it obviously got out of hand
And toward the end he actually was motioning for security
Um jebby confirmed surprise villain of efap season four villain
I don't know. I think jebby a villain. No, no, not our jebby
I think jeb is against his will been forced to run on that wheel inside awful good. Yeah, jebby nickels his head
Yeah, this is it's a complicated law behind behind jebby. We've yet to unravel
complicated sort he's he's one of the
He's the strangest of bushes. Also, I realize we're um, we're just
over an hour away from the actual cap so
Oh really how long have we been going 10 hours and 43 minutes?
Oh my goodness mauler and it actually cuts at 11 55 of my timer
So that means you know just five minutes less than that too. So oh my goodness
I'm gonna pick up the pace a little bit to make sure I don't miss these so
This is coming from the girl who jizzes over porgs. I mean she sleeps with porgs
We don't know that she does anything with not well. Yeah. Well a porg is a fantastic beast. Oh shit. You're right
Um
This thing deserves to be locked up and forced to watch the final bloodbath from once upon a time in hollywood on loop forever
a clockwork orange style
Perhaps I am not at liberty to decide what she deserves
um, i'm not one to usually bandy about the tim's stupid or insane but
Oh, I get it. I'm very happy you're back wolf and i'm assuming based off you posting again that you're feeling better and i'm glad
Hi skull on wheels and dog
Hello. Hello. I am dog
I'd like to see her explain the themes of efap
We have we have clear themes very clear themes we are responsibly specific
He's literally got it all caps this thing could vote ah
Oh a tlj supporter criticizing consistency ironic
ironic
The joker acts as a hybrid reality like requiem for a dream the old mother's tv speed induced dementia
Arthur is making an augmented reality
Um, I mean, okay
It's an interpretation maula
Can you tell your discord mod misha bouquet who stopped deleting memes and images from the epap epap podcast talk channel?
I'm not in charge of how the rules work for that one. I I would say that during during an epap
While there's actually an epap happening. I think the rules should be much more lenient if not temporarily lowered
I think they're actually that's what I say
I I think that if there's an epap going on and everyone
Fat podcast talk and they're putting memes in there that are relevant and posting them
Let the people enjoy their memes during the epap
Come on mods. I'm with the people
You're gonna cause an uprising
Hi. Yeah
Are you the kind of doggo to start a movement?
Um, i've had a yeah
All right, then. All right. Yeah. Yeah, I think so
Uh, will you ever get?
Seth sin tach or seth sin tach? I remember you talking about this. Seth zinch. Seth zintach
On as a guest. I'm not against it. We'd love to have him on epap
Never heard of him
Also, hi legs
Um, hello. Yeah, Seth
zintach zint zint tach
He makes the best game reviews
Ever
Uh, jenny, fuck your hats. You're not funny. Also, you're ugly. Oh
I mean rags didn't think so. I don't think she's ugly
She's dumb
ugly
They go hand in hand
Duh, yeah, it can it can be an unattractive element for sure. Uh
Can't believe i've actually caught up with you massive
Rhino milk, are you I mean
I know I read that point. I mean, yeah, good stuff
Miss jeb what you said is just one of the most insanely idiotic things i've ever heard
I award you no points and may god have mercy on your soul
That's my review just watch the trailers yeah, that was a great part to this video for sure
Uh, hey wolf glad to see you back question. I've been wanting to read your book, but physical visions are no longer available
Would you know if there are any pdfs or something floating around?
Uh, no, there isn't
At least if there is then I didn't sanction it nor did I
Nor do I know who or where to find? Uh find it, but it's not available right now
Uh, this woman makes me want to die he has extra money for putting up with this cnt so
Knit
Welcome back wolf. Now you can answer all of my twang kind's questions two kinds questions. Sorry
Uh, who is the best character and if you say anyone but keith you're wrong
He's definitely up there
Thanks, er
Yeah, all right. Yeah, I I don't know. I don't know who i'd consider to be my the best
I I I mean instinctively. I want to say he's not but
Why because you're always
Butting heads with our chat their audience. You just can't don't think they could take it
All right, yeah, that's that's the reason
What show is this
Two kinds. It's a it's not a show. It's a webcomic. Oh like gone with the blast wave
I have no idea what that is. Oh
That's an old reference. You thought you thought the rapist was an old
It is an old reference those videos are in like 240p
Have you seen the current war any thoughts on it
The current war
It's capitalized. I assume it's like a a thing. I don't know. I don't know. I I I haven't seen that now
I haven't heard of it. I hope it's going well for america. Mm-hmm
We usually are on their team so i'm okay with that too. I mean sometimes
I can't believe I used to admire jenny. She's an insufferable obnoxious intellectually dishonest and moronic
I
Just like the way that's done. She's an insufferable obnoxious intellectually dishonest and moronic. You're like wait
The way that was weirded but uh, fair enough
Uh, is jeb nickle's good rat?
Hmm
Good bush
Good bush. Yeah
Jenny you've never turned any heads and you never will oh
I clapped on wearing crocs like that. I don't know man
I clapped when her face got mangled. Are they talking about the meme video? I think
If jenny was a superhero her power would be turning every man gay
No, rags was on board he was on board
Yeah, she's not like ugly or anything she's just dumb
Uh, it's just the different kind of ugly. You all sound totally deflated after that. Hi rags
Hello. Yeah
It was tough it was honestly tough it takes a bit it takes a bit out of you i'm not gonna lie
Apologies for the ironically moronic misuse of anne between shes and and insufferable. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, there you go. You call it. It's all right
Uh wolf has a new channel youtube enables super chats me. I must only use this power to annoy. Welcome back
Rebed I think that's supposed to be friend
Rebed also, yeah
Well on that note, I I do gotta go to work in like eight hours, so
I gotta leave streaming for half a day. What the fuck? Yeah, that's it. That's all you could pull off. Really
Really? All right. Wait. Oh, we can cut him some slack
All right, i'll be rusty rusty. Yeah, wait
Um, well before you go then because i'm sure we've cycled out into a whole set of new viewers at this point
Reveal the amazing news as if no one's welcome to welcome to chat b team
Yeah, okay. So I have a couple videos up. The second one is back up now
One is on joker one is on the watchman show
Um, the channel's called of writing and rage
Uh, don't expect me to upload regularly don't expect me to be on nefap regularly either. I'm not really
I'm like around
That's not anything like
Major you're around you're around
like
It's like one of those things where you don't even it shouldn't even be a surprise if I don't upload for another year
It's like it's it's not something i'm taking seriously in this latest. It's
Just a couple things. I wanted to do and
You know, I was offered the chance to come on. It's been a while. So
I'm going to talk about joker
Yeah, so that's that's a thing
Uh, I guess I should say that uh, they're the old videos. I don't have any of them
I don't really like any of them either. So they're not coming back
I
Yeah
That's it
All right. And yeah, the link is in the description as well as the chat and um
I'm sure wolf will want to pop in to talk a little bit about episode nine when that comes around but um
Yeah, similarly with my videos no promises about anything and uh, it was wonderful to have you here
So it's been it's been very very massive
Yeah, it was it was nice
So, uh, i'll see you guys later. Absolutely. We will catch you later
What a gay
And deed the gayest as they could ever possibly be
A monument of gayness for the rest of us who aspired but yeah, seriously check out his videos
The two that he's put up. They're actually really good and uh
Like it's just a good take on on joker and then um letting everyone know about the horrors of the first episode of washman
I'm sure you will all enjoy
Me and ranks are gonna kick on so kick on once again
Well, it's always like it's always it always ends and it's you and I yeah together
forever
Fucking tucker dale thing where he's like
Uh me and tuck you would make tucker tuck and I had tuck
Like he fucks up the the prom ring. There's like a million times in a row
Everyone should watch that movie. Anyway. Yeah, somebody needs to make a collection clips of jab nickels making comments on joker followed up
By luke saying everything you just said was wrong
I mean you could do it though. It is a tlj meme and there's a there's a there's a nastiness to that
You know like using it for good like oof
But it's it's all right. I'll forgive it because it's funny
She searched for a theme harder than taxon and his gender
I guess that would be her gender at this point
I don't know. I'm not actually 100 clear on that one. I
I haven't checked the twitters and the and the recent updates and videos and stuff
um
Big brain time. Yes, indeed. I'm back and drunk. So good night all welcome back wolf. Love you
I'd rather be in Chewbacca's mouth. That's a giant porg that said that yeah, I could see that being preferable than
Listening to all of those reviews from jabby nickelson
The dawn of the planet of the jabs
It's like I said, i'd watch all of these say give them a shot. Yeah
Uh maula voice of reason wolf voice of passion rags voice of oddity
Altogether they make perfect harmony in the perfect podcast
I mean
I wouldn't i'm not saying the podcast is perfect. Is that something you'd say rags? I don't know. What do you what do we think?
Perfect. No, but hopefully one day we'll get there. Yeah, we're aiming. We're aiming there. We're getting there. I think yeah, man regression
Wolf you massive. Welcome back. I missed your tisms
Uh, so happy to see you back wolf. Hi rags. You are cute
Oh, thank you. I agree
Uh, what are your thoughts on chris hansen looking into onision right now?
Chris hansen's looking into onision. That's that's interesting
Honestly, I don't know anything about that, but
I'll happily see how that's actually kind of interesting
uh
Glad to see you wolf back wishing you pleasant days
Thank you, man
Great to see wolf back. Hope you're doing well. Also hi rags and maula. May the don bless you all
Oh
And may don bless you as well
Yoho hehe she can find no theme jebo baggins
Yeah, that was a famous quote. Um
Very applicable to this situation
Hey wolf, sorry to hear about your uh suicide attempt better luck next time. Wow. It's wow
If you're having trouble with therapists try reading the works of freudian
It could help. Uh, the the works of freudian. He was taught by the incredible bagidius
Or at least start the other way around. I can never remember the law's hard, but um
Uh, hi wolf been keeping up with bat wahmen. He has been
He's uh, I believe he's just watching hour takes a bit because I would never want him to actually watch the show on his own
You know that
Oh, no, he'll go he'd rip his hair out
Davey would be tough wolf now that you're back. I wanted to say I watched violet ever garden after you said it was great
In the game of thrones rant apart from it tuning me into a massive. I really liked it. Thank you
also, hi wags
hello
If the leaks are true
The end of kylo's story and the rise of skywalker may actually piss off the ralo crowd too
The rise of skywalker may actually alienate its only remaining fans
We'll see. I I think it's this is a good chance. It'll literally piss off everyone
Oh, yeah, I mean
What side are they gonna I think?
I was about to like what team are they gonna go with you know, but at this point I think they're just
like legit
Incapable of making a good star wars movie and as i've said before
Even if they could do it would they be able to recognize it if they did and I don't think that they can
I think it's gonna be a wild ride man
2019 is gonna be over with possibly like one or two efaps about that film and then 2020
Oh littered with tlj and rise of skywalker takes
Efap is that will be our life everything that happened with tlj
It's gonna happen again
And everyone's gonna try to explain how amazing episode nine is and we'll just be baffled
We'll have to seek comfort in batwoman every week. Please respond to dusty's captain marvel video. It's bad
Dusty's dust. I can't video is still apparently
Yeah, is he still begging for super chat
Dusty's dusty's captain marvel video. Yeah, I uh, let me take a look. He really is still going, huh?
Dave rubin blames california wildfires on gays and black
People
That's the name of his latest video dave rubin blames california wildfires on gays and black people
Okay
Um
Yeah, I I don't know if it's like a recent thing or if it's like an older one
But uh, yeah dusty's an interesting character to say the least. Um
Um, welcome back wolf. Nice to see you again. Also. Hi rags. Hello
So in dark fate enhancing humans makes them aryan blonde the humans of the new future must be the fourth right who knew
Yeah, there are drawbacks yeah, there was right all along
um
I'm sorry here
Super chat in solidarity for the retail horror stories been in retail hell for years and you guys have been inspiring me to get the
Fuck out asap. Stay awesome guys
It's rough. Yeah, we all it seems to be that most people have stories for that at some point
Everyone's been through rough jobs at some point
Seeing wolf gone mad made me sad glad he's here again. Welcome back. Never stop guys
Which is worse california or new jersey?
Um, I don't know I hear they're both pretty
I would say california is better because there's it's so big that you can go to the non crappy
New jersey's a lot smaller. So maybe your choices are a lot fewer. I just asked jeb, you know
Yeah, but my like california is massive. There must be a lot of really nice suburbs away from the cities
You know
Out near the desert where there's pleasant communities and modestly sized towns and stuff that you can hang out in
If I was going to live in california, that's where i'd be
I'd have been far away from those cities as I could possibly be
Fuck that noise
Uh had strap a few weeks ago and now it's the fucking flu
It's my year of the illness, but at least I have efap to keep me company in plague town
Yeah, absolutely the best chinese new year to be uh born on
During the one year anniversary of sargon's channel. He refused to call me a faggot money goes to whomever calls me a faggot
What a faggot. There you go three
All right
Uh, hey, you can tell that's a principled position because I called him a faggot before I was gonna say like
we
How many times has that been said on this podcast gotta be over like 50 by now, right?
How many times have we have people paid us to call them faggots? No, how many times we said faggot?
Oh
I don't know many times
Both massively and not massively yeah both the masses are not massive and you know hard f and soft f
Oh, yeah an f or a ph
faggot
faggot
Uh, hey efap squad if maula got genetically fused to a fly and started turning into a giant man fly maula fly
What would rags and wolf do?
Say that one more time just so if I became maula fly by genetically using myself to one
What would you guys do about that?
Hmm get you to the hospital as soon as possible to see if there is a way to
Oh, I would contact all the scientists who made all the parts
Right and see if well
And see if you have to hurry
Well, I mean, yeah, you could spend a day a day phone calling them
uh
Just getting everybody. Hey
You know you did the parts for what and then we get everybody together and they all make the
And they all you know say oh, this is what happened
And so if they if we put all of our brains together, then I have no doubt in my mind
Then we could turn you back into maulman or at least you know
We just start kidnapping orphans and feeding them into the
Uh the telepod to keep you human. Yep to keep my purity levels up. I I can get that. Yeah, there we go
Yeah
Orphans finally used for him wolf my n-word may the dawn grant you good rat
Oh, hey been praying for you wolf glad to see you back
Do black pills video guys. It's really bad. Also. Nice to see you again wolf ps. Also. Hi rags
Oh, hey there. You've got so many joker videos to cover. I'm or I believe there's six
I've got prepped. I thought we'd get two done today, but this is efap. So no
When was the last time we were gonna cover?
This these efaps will be cover like
Several things because they're like clips and stuff and it's like man. Yeah
Those are the days. I mean we but we covered angry joe
As well. Yeah, we did cover a bit of that. So that's like two videos guys
That's in a way in a way. Also, this was a long video. This is a 33 minute one
This was a 30. That's yeah
So for us that translates to half a day. It's almost three videos that are normally 10 minutes. So
There you go. We did three videos today
kind of
um
Youtuber heavy spoilers reads some trs leaks where he said that finn tricks the first order fleet into firing on itself and destroying itself
What the fuck?
What's how are you that retarded? I've heard a lot of
A lot of things a lot of different things
Like I said, we'll we'll consider doing a leak read for an efap if you guys want
But that means that's another set of videos we don't cover, you know
And we'll have to get guests that have not read the leaks who are interested in it. I guess
I mean unless it was just unless it would just be a casual conversation of you and I talking about them one day
Yeah, we can do that
Yeah, like one or two guys and be like, hey we're gonna
Yeah, this will be like an efap mini
We're just gonna talk about the leaks and then release it like that. Yeah, that might be a plan could work
Yeah, uh roses are red violets of blue last jedi sucks. Epstein didn't kill himself
Didn't rhyme at all
Uh any interest in seeing the irishman?
Yeah
Not not rushing my way there, but yeah
Yeah, I don't really I don't really care. I mean if if you see it and you say it's great then maybe you know, maybe yeah
I can be swayed
Like a shoe
Rag some military doggos have titanium teeth so they can bite anything. Would you have those?
I don't know why i'd make my teeth softer
Is titanium softer than bone oh well teeth
I listen i'm i'm a milk drinking doggo
My bones are as hard as adamantium. I could shoot through a building. I don't do it. I could if I was really hungry
But you know, it just takes a while and I got better things. I want to do it's very monotonous in the property damage
But that that but legitimately that's really cool that dog's gonna be given titanium that's actually really that's actually fucking cool as shit
Uh
Super glad you're around wolf while molar is the voice and rags is the super good off the cuff
You're like a smart and relatable normie. If episode is best when you're here
I'm sure you'd appreciate that
I think so and I agree
Wolf's a good man. Oh, yeah, I mean etha ethap ethap was created with with the three of us
I think it'll always be peak when he's around
Uh, well apparently youtube is participating in nofap november because expletive youtube didn't notify. Hi rags. Hi molar. Hi wolf
Hey
And uh, hello. Yeah, and i'm sorry about that
Uh, just want to point out that in batwoman the stepmother that nearly killed alice and destroyed all evidence relevant
Relative to her in the second episode got completely overtaken by alice in terms of danger in episode four writing problems galore
Yeah, um, i'll bring this up when we record for the fifth one, but isn't it weird, right?
the
Evil mum wants to blow up alice like essentially trying to kill her and then she has like the police men there
To shoot at and explode her to death
And then later she wants to send thugs with guns to
I assume shoot and kill alice and possibly extra henchmen
And then she sees the one of her heads but lost his piggy finger and she's like, oh my god
Oh, so like this is the worst thing that could possibly ever be like holy shit. You're lucky
You gotta like just the last thing you made it out with eight fingers in his life. Hey, man, just fucking take the win
Yes, it's beyond such a stupid show. Yes. I can't wait for the next episode
Uh, if a stranger walks in I want him to know where
Sorry, if a stranger walks in I want him to know fear fap
No fear fap i'm not sure about what that is, but yes
uh first stupid chat
Will like one maybe this funny when this guy jerks off is it like scary?
I've never had a fear fap myself, but you know new experiences and everything fear fap
Yeah, I don't get off on like
You don't get off on fear faps
um
First super chat. We'll watch the re-upload later. Hey rag hail ra hello my w word
Wolf rags and sw girl. What do you think of star wars girl? What do you think of ohio?
I'm I don't think i've ever been to ohio
But I haven't heard bad stuff. I'm I I bet if I win it'd probably be a fine place
I've never just ever been to ohio
Um, sorry will be one day though. I don't know who's worst quinton or papa. Jeb nickels here
Also, hi wags wolf maula do more of here. I love the pain. Happy no nut november
Oh, I think you love the pain. I think we need a break from
I need a break
Nichols, I think it'll be nice to just get away for a bit
Uh tips versus faps. This is the quality content. I want. Oh, look at that
This one we were talking about the uh getting caught pooping or fapping that's where we're at getting there
How do I get a girl I like out of her relationship?
um
I mean
There's an ethics issue there of sorts. Uh, what are we supposed to suggest with this rags? What are we supposed to do ethically?
when it comes to
Suggesting how to rid a female of her companion in order to date her
Red a female of her companion in order to date her. Yes
You don't have to say that one more time. I don't think I quite follow. How do I get a girl I like out of her relationship?
Oh, um
If she's happy in the relationship and if you really want that's uh, I said it's an ethics issue
Yeah, man, I wouldn't do it. I wouldn't do it man
I wouldn't do it. Was it yep. Shoot him. Oh, no
Aliens glorifies violence against monsters
Yeah, those pesky aliens. Are you going to watch last?
Years cw elsewhere's crossover it introduced batwoman and the batwoman show is now caught up to it
Uh, hi rags wolf and mauler. Uh, we're not too concerned
Maybe there'll be some kind of thing we could do at some point in some way, but I don't know
I'm kind of happy where we're at with uh
with batwoman
Uh wolf great to have you back media glorifies violence but doesn't encourage it
Uh wolf, would you let shad narrate your book also high rags?
Hey, i'm sure you would but I don't even know that does shad is shad interested in doing book narrations
I'm not certain
Rags i've thought of something similar good man
Yeah, i'm not sure what that's in reference to
Ah
Should have an item after episode nine on who was the most accurate with the episode nine plot leaks?
Um
Do you mean like which of the leaks were accurate or do you mean which of us were most accurate on the bet according to the
plot leaks
Even though it's not really a bet but kind of still
Uh, but yeah, no, it's it's gonna be a possibility wolf
Did you know that j is over halfway to beating your efap time if he does beat it
He will use his powers to become a permanent recurring guest
I don't think that was a permanent recurring guest. Yeah, I was gonna say I don't think he has the power of rags
He's asking a lot
Uh looking at his fearing was
Look at his furrowing of the brow as his tiny brain struggles to actually make an argument for this wolf on legal eagle
You've been missed. Hi rags
Hey there good. Ah the legal eagle one. That was fun
He was crazy those ages ago now as well
Someone asked me if a sword is it if a prostitute was a sword like weapon
Uh, my last donation was about lord of the rings
So I was wondering if you guys saw the hilly wood show parody of lord the rings. They do music parodies
I've seen their one for supernatural. I haven't seen any of the others but um
I'm gonna go ahead and assume wolf hasn't seen their um
Lord the rings ones, but uh, yeah, they do good stuff. I would say production value-wise
They try their asses off especially for like a youtube channel
Uh, well screw cosmo. I didn't even like his clickbaity spider-man bs. Anyway, what an anti-social freak er is better
Anyway, he has a brain unlike that zombie
Yeah, uh, I want to cover cosmo more as we go on because
Man have I been disappointed with almost every video I see from him
Really even recently? Um whenever I jump in
If he's talking about how good a thing is or how bad a thing is he'll never get the arguments, right?
What would be a recent example if you can think of any on the top of your head or recall them. Let's have a look
What has he done lately
Oh, I watched his video on spider-man far from home
I think he was trying to argue that it was
very good and um
I think I watched it with fringy and he just makes terrible arguments
Why it's good?
uh
I think his joker video was okay. I can't remember what what I ended up. He's got a video for shrek 2, I guess
I don't know shrek tober
shrek 2
Now he's got a video for the lighthouse
Let's see why daredevil is the worst superhero movie ever made I doubt that
Oh, yeah, um
maybe
I mean it's always worse than captain marvel. It's always gonna be my take
but uh, yeah, I don't know, um
It's not like you can't make good stuff, I don't I don't think it's impossible. I just uh haven't been impressed. Um
Um, we shall see as time goes on what he what he gets up to
We shall see
um
With the 40k show eisenhorn being in the works. Are there any plans to watch it and or read the books?
Uh, I have none
I I don't know. I know there you go. I might have screwed up my super chat rag samola. What are your favorite movies?
Uh masquerade
Directed by chu cheng min
Mango's back and forth between prestige and t2. It'll be james cameron and nolan
Uh, yay wolf berserk is also my favorite manga. I believe that's alex's favorite as well a lot of people like berserk
Uh wolf I love your honesty and cynicism your blunt and unapologetic way of communicating has been an inspiration for me. We love you, man
We do indeed
And again link to his channel is in the description for anybody who didn't know that was a thing
Uh wolf, please read one piece hunter x hunter and one punch man
He'll probably make it eventually to these things. He's got a lot of uh different pieces of media to consume at this point
Uh, yay wolf's back. What's your opinion on the book of the road?
I will save that the mccormack book and
Now I I know of the book. I haven't read the book. I saw that I saw the movie and I really like
so
There you go
Uh, you should do an efap mini on the witcher trailer
I I honestly I don't really have any much to say like I remember watching and just being like hmm
I'll probably more to say if I get a show out of it
Yeah, i've seen it, but like i've already forgotten most of it. I just don't like i've got no connection to witcher right now
So it's just like it's just stuff to me
Um, but i'd be willing to watch the show with you guys as the in this case
I would be the you for game of thrones if you know what I mean
Okay. Yeah, it could be interesting
Uh first time catching you guys live and i'm eight hours late. Oh, well, the middle's the best part. Love you wolf
Long man good. Oh and hyrax
Hey
Have you guys seen the new thumb wars movie?
I
I saw one thumb wars movie along
What what is how is there a movie for thumb wars?
How does that work thumb wars was always a movie?
What is thumb wars?
It's like parodies of stuff, but they use like thumbs. Oh, is it like a youtube thing?
I don't know. I remember renting thumb wars the phantom cuticle from block buster years and years ago
I must have missed all that
I'm a kid. So or I was a kid. So who knows what the fuck I really thought was, you know hilarious or not
Uh big fan of you bros. Have you considered having chris o'neill on as a guest?
I'd be up for that. I don't know if he would be
uh oni engie chris o'neill
He's like an animator from uh older age of youtube i'm not sure he's doing these days, but again, yeah, i'd be on board with that
Yeah, absolutely
Um maula, please put on please put on a voice as you say this
Hey you you're finally awake. You were trying to cross the border, right?
Walked right into that imperial ambush same as us and that thief over there
Oh, is there is there any I didn't realize that's the end of it
Same as us and that thief over there
Hopefully that works. I don't know if that's what you're after
Yay wolf. I need to catch up on you faps
We've got another 12 hour one coming at you. I best I should speed up a bit again
Rags wolf. What are your thoughts on monster hunter world and or code vein? Those are my favorites
Um haven't played either
I've played monster. The code vein is on my list sort of and I really like it
Not played code vein, but I kind of want to I think wolf hasn't played code vein and he has played a bit of monster hunter world
I can't remember but
Monster the world's mostly approved of as far as I can tell I don't I haven't actually looked into the code vein
Yeah, I'm not sure what people are saying about it
My friends, uh
Certainly seem to like it whenever they talk about it
Uh jab is the key to all of this bilbo wagon
Wolf i'm curious. What are your thoughts on zelda breath of the wild? I liked everything but the final boss
I'm pretty sure he liked it a lot. He did a stream it. Um
Either once or twice he had a lot of hours into it. So, uh
I can't remember if he finished it or not, but i'm almost certain he liked it a lot
Thoughts on the godzilla franchise seen a film or not
Well
I've seen um the matthew brojek one the 2014 one king of the monsters
Certainly seen king of the monsters and i've seen shin godzilla as well
I've never been impressed by the godzilla franchise. I like the monster fights
Uh, the monster fights are good. It's a shame that they're only
What seven percent of the film that was the conclusion? Yeah, which
It's still gonna be ages before they see that because of how stupid copyright has been with those efap movies, but we're getting there folks
We've got there's like seven
They're all fully edited and waiting to go
Some good stuff seven you got it goes
Uh doom. Oh doom isn't even out of the rings lord the rings lord the rings
then
What am I forgetting?
Toy story godzilla
Come over if there's another one
Maybe there isn't oh well torchwood camps, I guess as well
All these things are on the way torchwood. It's kind of crazy
There's a lot of content with a lot of editing time and as far as everyone's aware, they don't even exist
They're gonna come out eventually youtube can't stop them forever
It's been insane two towers has been re-rendered by me like more than a hundred times at this point
Just utterly insane and it keeps picking up on things that are just like this isn't something you should be able to pick up on
I'm just waiting for the day where it just stops. We're getting there though. I'm sure of it
Um, and i'm really looking forward to everyone seeing the fellowship of the ring one. Oh, it's so good
Oh man, when I like guys when I was rewatching that
Our comment, oh it was so good so good
um
I appreciate your stamina endurance and fortitude mauler rags and wolf hail guys
Hey, and thank you
Always ready to have my stamina come all the accidental streaming things and stuff
It's like yep, me and rags are just we've nearly made a half day stream on accident. It happens
It happens. That's how we beat it
Thanks, jenny. Thanks. Jeb. Thanks. Yeah, jebby. Hey rags. What do you think of the current state of imitide 2?
I didn't really care for the last update at all. In fact, I kind of stopped playing
Um, not a fan of a lot of the new skill reworks
Not a fan at all of the new meta changes
um
progression is still kind of
um
I just not not really a fan not really fan of it. Uh beastmen are okay in concept, but they're
cheap bullshit
I think the changes to the difficulty are
really strange
I I if I could take back the latest update, I think I would haven't played it in a while since though
um
They said I feel winds of magic dlc was a mistake in that it needed more time for feedback and development
Yeah, winds of magic was the last update that i'm talking to and they don't seem to there was a lot of feedback that they got
um
With the vermintide community and putting out polls and stuff. Most people disapprove of it and are dissatisfied with it
They've had they've done a crap ton of patches afterwards trying to make things better
But I just don't I honestly don't know really what they were thinking all they had to do was give us new maps
And maybe some new weapons new cosmetics to earn and play with
Um new maps are the big thing though
We got one new map big massive expansion winds of magic one map and it's a shitty one
So they kind of fucked up. All they had to do is just new maps new weapons new cosmetics
Don't fuck around with the gameplay at all
But they just like they did the reverse of what they needed to do
Right over
And mike tessa said he was referring to the guy in joe's video, uh,
Uh, it's fair enough
When you call a fedora tipper who's hit by a car
linkara
I know who linkara is but it's spelled with a k not a c
I don't know who linkara is. He's a comic book reviewer from the channel awesome days
Oh
Chubby chickles
Chubby chickles. All right. Good on your wolf. Never date a lady made of light
Yeah, it can end badly. It can honestly do it
Honestly, she looked better in the sonic onesie with little to no makeup than she did in the coat of makeup and would
would bang her in the sonic onesie
All right. Yeah, and a lot of that's because obviously uh sonic onesie very sexy attire
But man i'm when I see chicks who have just makeup all over their face. Like I said icing
Um, it it's really it comes across as fake and it's almost like a mask at that point. It just doesn't seem real
Is it a pork sword he's considering buying I think it was a regular one
Jesus christ, I left to hang out with my j long bone weird seven hours ago and you masters are still going never change efap
Never change. I know
Get there. She won the pork from an exclusive target giveaway
I won one too. No one would buy it. So I tried donating it to a toy drive and they refused to take it. Oh
Oh
You could always uh
Chewbacca it if you know what I mean put it on our own open fire
It would give you some decent heat for a while. I think
you backy
uh
the sure jab
the sure jab rejection
Reception jab story
the not so jab debate
Rags you need to spend like five minutes to look at all the games on game pass
There's some really good ones on there and some really bad ones
Oh, yeah, man
Yeah, it makes sense
Xbox game pass is like legit excellent stuff
Oh my lord wolf is back happy to see you again, mate. Hi rags. Good day muesli. Hello
Uh glad I can count on efap to cheer me up after a crap 20th birthday waking up to your room being flooded
Is hardly fun split this super chat three ways geode
Oh, thank you. I enjoy it. First off. I enjoy three ways. Thank you, but also
If there'll be a birthday, you never forget
Yeah, sorry about the flooding, but hopefully it's everything goes well from there. You know, it's only up now. It's only goods
Um, yeah, hopefully that doesn't have any super permanent repercussions
Uh, hi rags. Can I ask you for date?
You may
And what if they did would you say yes?
Oh no, odd depends where they were
Mm-hmm
Honey, I shrunk the jibs
Jeb jeb binks courage the cowardly jeb
avatar the last jeb bender
Jeb heart jablantis the lost empire
jablantis
Hello there. Hello there sebastian
Just read hobbit and now reading lord of the rings. Thank you
Yeah, man, it's a journey. Those books are those books are really great. You just get absorbed in those books
He's get lost in them
Uh
Hi wolf, i'm so happy you're back and excited to watch this episode while I work you guys always help me get through my job
And I am forever grateful for that. Hi mauler and rags kick j and jab with an exclamation point
um, yeah, man, that's good stuff glad to hear it and uh,
I mean we got another 12 hour one for anybody who's got some long journeys ahead
We'll we'll keep you company while we're answering questions and responding to joker takes
And uh, yeah
Majeba
Wolf, what happened to your watchman video? It's gone. It is back up
He said he had a an error in it. He wanted to slow out before um,
Putting it back up and he forgot to do it. So it's done now
Jeb are 15 or ar jab teen. I think that's the age ratings with a combination of jab
That's good. Shit wolf. What happened to your watchman video? It's gone
Two of them it'll be back. It should be back. It should be back
Yeah, I fell asleep an hour ago and got woken up by rags yelling
Oh another story to tell the loudest noise story fitting I guess
Yeah, oh, yeah
a jab's life
All kinds of all kinds of stories and jab in the striped pajamas
Hi jab
Why does it show man of madon as the game being played?
Oh, I might not have switched that back to just entertainment. Uh, don't worry about it though. That won't be the case on mooler
It'll make sense
Uh, jeb shank redemption bilbo jebins tomorrow. Never jebs. Why are we talking about spider-man? Jeb bush is coming out
The spider who jabbed me sorry the spider jabbed me this oh, I thought that was like a double. Yeah
Uh, hello all my jab words
casino jabail
A jabman versus super jab angry jew man versus jabman dawn of justice
I mean all these are strong takes for movies. Hey rags noticed a lot of poker music in your vids
What's your favorite song? Would you just use his music off chance?
Uh, no, I I definitely really really enjoy
Uh, I got favorites. Um
I guess if I was gonna go
Favorites, I really like be kind to your donkey
Big tree, um cry face data and Picard
um
I really like
in my chair, uh the milky mix
Um prop my sky
rise and glide soul shine
There you are
happy
Trumpular is a good one wings for dreamers and wishery are also really good ones
Now wolf now you need to get a second animal named lewis and a third animal named the news you can have hui lewis and the news
Oh, yeah, that's a good plan
Wolf missed your buddy glad to hear from you
Well, if you could go on a date with hui lewis and you'd have hui lewis and the nudes the nudes. Ah
Definitely a strong idea. Hi rags molar and wolf glad to see you back rags
I was wondering if you'd seen the video eric taxon made on you
hmm something else in that
Did you see the whole thing or you've just seen parts I haven't I just
Yeah
What is the third best tip for content creation?
The third best tip I guess. Oh, I can't remember what our first two would have been
Oh, I guess it would be um
Make stuff that you feel motivated to make
Uh that you're interested in try and be as accurate as possible
Yeah, be as accurate and honest as possible. Yeah, be as accurate as possible be honest, uh with your
Subscribers and your your audience don't let any fame go to your head
You know stuff like that. I mean nothing that's like revolutionary just stuff that you should yeah, they're more like principles
We're arguing for rather than like uh technical things. Oh, yeah
I mean the one thing you've said before and I agree is just like if you can get your hands on a decent microphone
That's all you actually need the rest should be pretty simple
Yeah, you can get simple video software for cheap
If you're gonna splurge maybe splurging on a mic is the way to go
The jab before time what makes good owl the secret i'd say i'd say the jab that time forgot
Oh, yeah
Jeb of the hill which will be which will be jab bush by the way. He will be in it
Rags, what about a cassowary bird?
I would want something that flies
There's no way i'm gonna burn it. Go for flights. Yeah. Yeah
Jaby, are you okay? Are you okay? Jaby?
Lovely fmk george bush senior george w bush jab bush
Oh, fuck mary kill right. Yep
Um
I'm i'm fuck. Jeb. He can probably handle it. Oh, that's it. Here's that i'm just being pragmatic here
He probably handle it
He's probably the only one who could still get hard
yes, um
I would
Marry bush senior because he'll be dead soon
And I would kill george w bush kill george w bush. All right, that's the way it went
I don't really disagree with that. I think that the logic is sound
Nailed it. Uh, jeb titans an american. Jeb
On american. Jeb in paris, maybe yeah
Yeah, please spread butter jabo bush ins jabo bush ins
Jabo bush ins you need to shout at v. He liked dark fate. He's wrong
Oh, no, he didn't he's very wrong. No
V i'll make a video on dark fate
in
Possibly a half year from now once I get the hd thing on my hands
I've got a lot to say about how terrible that movie is. We'll be fine. We'll just give him that once he's
Come on, you know, it's just I think people just need some time with this one
Maybe maybe we're at that point. I don't know
Dark fate was really bad. Uh
Really bad. Well, we'll get there. It's fine. V's fine the jebedial hunter
Yeah
Long stream good. Hi wolf
What do you think about the show piggy blinders? I really recommend it cillian murphy is the lead really good writing acting directing soundtrack
I need to check it out. I've heard of it a lot. I believe isn't it? It's in its files to there
It's in its final season now. I've heard I don't know if that's true or not
But I know that it's up to like five or six. So it's a good
Shout to probably check it out soon
Which I very well may do
Jenny pre-tlj was near rlm levels of awesome
TLJ breaking people like this is more of a crime than star wars, which has been lame since the prequels. Hi j
That's how that ends
Yeah, TLJ did something
It it ruffled some feathers it made some waves and some brains got zapped along the way and something went wrong
I don't know what else to say
Um, did rags ever reach out to razorfist after I sent him his discord also hi rags
Hi, um, I don't think I did no
Uh
Welcome back wolf
What would y'all do if you thought you saw a ufo asking for a friend i'm questioning my sanity?
Uh, one of the first things I would conclude is that no one would believe me and i'm not even sure I believe it
um
well
I imagine if you saw well if
You have to ask if it's a ufo
Then doesn't that make it a ufo?
Oh, right because well unidentified by you
Yeah, an unidentified flying object. Yeah, if you're asking us then it is a
If the spirit of the question is if I saw what I thought was an alien object of some kind and it was gone
The next second I would assume some form of a trick of the light illusion or
If I was convinced
Then i'd be like i'll probably tell close friends that I saw something really fucking weird like a close friend
And I wouldn't be like man aliens are real. I believe it. I should be like something weird
I don't know. I don't know what it was. I'll probably forget about it eventually, but it was weird
Uh, maybe like maybe reach out to a close friend, you know
Maraisu commits identity theft in episode nine. I heard
No, I don't know what's gonna i'm almost excited just like with batwoman I can't wait
Uh, could a timer or a clock be added to the display
So for like the countdown of how much time we have left
I mean
Most of the time it's not going to be relevant or at least I'd hope so
Like say for example, we had plans to do a whole bunch of things more today
I'd be like right so we're gonna end now and you know start a new one or whatever and then
It should be rare that we ever come close to the finish line. You know what I mean?
Unless you just mean you want a time of a count up like once we start streaming the timer begins
Just to see how long I mean
I'm not against it. I just don't know where i'd put it in the um
In the design if you know what I mean
Huh
I guess it could go under the top right efap logo
Just it would take a chunk of chatter, but not too much
Could put it there
Maybe uh collided george lucas deepfake riser skywalker trailer reaction is well worth watching only about four to five minutes long
Fair enough collided it sounds pretty that sounds pretty funny actually
Yeah, maybe we can check that out. Uh
Jordan peterson deepfake reactions to star wars. No george lucas. Oh george luke. Oh, I thought you said george
I might have I don't know i'm getting tired
Oh, man, that would be great. Uh frozen 2's ending will make tlj look like endgame
That is a confusing statement
But uh, what what is this frozen 2 ending thing is is something horrible happened?
I don't know. That's the second comment. We've gotten about it. I don't know if that was the same account. I just yeah, like all right
Uh roses are gay
Okay
Rags, what are your thoughts on the war hero dog ghost?
I don't know about him
Yeah, I don't know if he is a war hero doggo
He is among the best of boys
Chat how many of you guys are in the legion of ra?
I suppose we'll see answers on that soon. Uh, dear efap. I'm turning 30 in a few days
Thanks for an early birthday stream and all the fun. Thanks rags for always giving great answer to my
Great answer to my silly. Would you rather questions sincerely mr. Massive?
No problem. Oh
Absolutely, you bet man. There are this is the thing about the would you rather questions
There's often things you can break down and then you can start to actually sort of level them and weigh them against each other
As ridiculous as all of them. Maybe that's that's usually something you can do
Yeah, um, you also owe us amazing spider-man 1 and 2 vid
From cosmo
Because did we ever say we wanted to do videos on amazing spider-man 1 and 2 I don't think we
What do you mean? I haven't even seen him
I can't remember what I may have said about that. I don't remember saying
Uh, because we definitely covered his videos on the rainy
Spider-man films was really bad video
but uh
Yeah, um
Yeah, i'm not sure about that one. Uh, do you think there's a good guy at the end of prestige?
Do you think there's a good guy at the end of prestige cuz it seems to be the film's conscious and sides with borden
But do you think borden understood the true sacrifice would have been avoiding marriage?
Um, it's been so long since i've seen it
When you say borden, are you talking about which of the two?
And the one that did or did not get
You think there's a good guy so you're asking do I think any of the characters are morally?
Good at the end of the film. Uh, that's a tough question. They all do very
Dodgy things throughout for different reasons that would take a long time to really rationalize entirely. I think cutter
Is the closest you'll probably get he tries everything
He does is usually informed by what he thinks is right and he gets arguably betrayed
um and used so
Yeah, that's a tough one. Um
Rags is tails dead. What replaces it?
Is tails dead tails stand for something like tails of something or
Oh tails for my wife's son. Yes
It is dead, but something will replace it. Do not you worry
All right
That was the pathfinder that I did with. Um, okay
If you notice my tuesdays had been freed up because that recently stopped but a something something will replace it soon
So do not you worry?
Uh rags, please translate this text from my left-wing brother. I have no idea
All right, so it goes mitch mcconnell is the efialtis of trachis of neville
chamberlains
I have no fucking idea what that means
Um
No, I got nothing for that either. I recognize some of the dames are there but i'll just paste that to you
I don't know mitch mcconnell's name, but
I
Recognize the name of neville chamberlains. He's the efialtis of trachis of neville
Chamberlains, I know who neville chamberlain is
I recognize the name efialtis as well
Well, you got some googling ahead of you for that one
Yeah
But you don't want to be you generally don't want to be compared to neville chamberlain
I
Don't even yeah, I was gonna say I don't know what those other things in that mean as a result for that last bit
Uh, you almost yeah for those of you don't know he was a british prime minister before. Um
churchill
You almost but detoured detoured I think I supposed to be got detoured
Almost but not what the fuck I got here four hours late and thought that i'd have to watch this after work
But I just got home and you're still going also. Hi wolf
Would have said hi with that. He would have said hi in his heart. He would have said hi in his heart
He's saying hello as we speak
and that
with
and
What are you doing? Yeah 15 minutes to go
We reached the end. Oh my god, I just now looked at the clock
I need to walk around
Differently so walk around jesus christ. Uh
Thank you all very much for watching for the kind donations and the the um the awesome artwork
There was plans right to do an efap
tomorrow meaning today for me which is in
This is gonna be just over 10 hours for me from now and I haven't slept or eaten yet
I don't know if um
I don't know if that's wise for me right now
I don't know it's just because like i'm gonna literally go to sleep
I have to do it a couple of things and set this all up and then literally start a stream free efap again
Um, I guess that'll be the same for you as well rags
What do you think i'm gonna go eat i'm gonna eat take a nap play a game maybe
Have go take a walk out mood. I'll probably just walk to the store
Get a drink or something walk back. I don't know
Maybe if we can start a little bit later just so I have some more time to you know
Yeah, how long
This is this the other the other thing by the way is it so the idea of chat because I know that you're like
What's going on? Um, the idea is to do the meme stream
That's just all of the memes and I don't think that should take probably like three hours. I imagine maybe four
It won't be like too intense compared to this. We're not gonna cover a video. We're just gonna watch some memes look some memes
Um, oh wait daylight savings is over today. I think I get an extra hour. Oh, I don't
America
So there's a good chance that'll happen let me say
8 pm to 9 pm bst and it'll like I said, it wouldn't be it'll be like, um
I keep i'm like a shorty fap at three to four hours
Uh, that's where we're at now. That's that's that's life for us. But yeah, uh,
So that that'll be kind of the plan if I don't manage to sort that out. Uh,
You know, it'll happen eventually, but that was gonna be the plan
I did not expect this to go to the 12-hour mark today
You never know what's gonna happen life is a weird man
um
But yeah, thank you all for for for coming and of course, like I said
Wolf did come back on this uh this episode
It doesn't mean he's back for like every episode is going to be the ones that he would like to come in for and um
I guess for the stuff that he uh
He's got a very special interest in and he does have a channel on youtube now
You can find a link to the his video in the description. I think that's a link to his channel either way subscribe watch the videos and
I mean
I would leave encouraging comments. I think I have
Because I want to see more stuff from him because he makes really good stuff. So, um, yeah, check them out. They're good and
Oh, i've got a couple more to read. Uh, can I ask you out on a date rags you have an email or something?
Yeah, my channel email is the one I check the most
but
Like this I yeah, uh, you can ask you can email me. Sure
uh farty poop butt lol
And then a heart wonderful good night men subscribe to king eon
All right
Wags, hello. There is no point to this. I just want to keep you guys going also. Hello maula. Hello
Oh, well, hello to you
And well, thanks. And yeah with that i'm gonna call it. Uh, thank you for watching episode 59
We shall return
and uh
This last one says I just woke up. Whoa glad to see I have another pretty chunky
You have to look at the end of this fine weekend. Yes, you do like I said near 12
And yes with that, thank you everyone and good night
All right, so i'm gonna say good night
I'm gonna say
at at
It's night. It's not even night. It's almost one might even say it's morning
And because of that small delay I didn't hit end stream and now I get to read that last one
Thoughts on dragon demands if you want any very heavily informed game of thrones behind the scenes the story
But I didn't cite he's your man. I believe i've seen
Several of his videos the one I usually references is stannis video. I don't know much beyond that
But yeah good channel from what I know
With that for realsies. Good night and goodbye. Good night. Thanks for coming
