Someone sent me something on Twitter and I put it as our temporary cover.
I think you guys will like it.
Oh man.
I had that stupid song stuck in my head all day yesterday.
Now you're going to get it stuck in my head for the rest of today.
That's your fault for existing.
If you didn't exist, that wouldn't have happened.
Well if that song didn't exist, that also would not have happened.
Oh so it's the song's fault rather than your brain.
Yes it is.
Okay look, that song is awful and it's also unbelievably catchy.
I hate it.
I hate it and I love it.
Can you see the funny?
The funny what?
The what our front of the thing looks like.
Well it's not popped up yet so no.
I'm sorry.
Wait why does it?
It's got the wrong thumbnail.
Fucking YouTube.
It was supposed to update.
I'm going to change it again.
Hopefully it works this time.
Sorry Appa Ben.
Everyone's going to think you're geeks and gamers and will cast bullshits now.
You'll get over it I'm sure.
Well it's not even popping up in the subscription feed yet so.
I've got it.
Oh I will be right back.
Alright then.
And that leaves just us.
Somebody sent me on Twitter.
Somebody sent me something on Twitter.
Something along the lines of Epic Games stealing designs from people.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Um.
Here's.
Such as?
Let me show you this.
I know they've been doing weird things with Steam files.
What is this?
Check that out.
That's.
That's a big ooh for me.
Ooh yeah ooh ooh.
That's a little bit too close.
Ooh.
Just ooh ooh ooh.
I'll show the people's.
First off who looks at the one on the right and is like this should be copied at all.
But.
Damn.
Rags with a brutal attack.
That thumbnail crap happened last time.
Yeah apparently it just always happens.
I blame rags.
He's he's often using his mind powers to fuck up my thumbnails.
That's a purely rags move.
No lo puede esto car you dare.
No no no.
I want.
I want American rags.
No Spanish rags.
I hate for American rags.
Blood.
I climb that fence.
I'm American now.
Um.
Ay caramba.
Ay caramba.
So yeah.
How you doing Appa Ben.
Welcome back.
It's been a while.
You're on episode what?
Six seven something.
Siete.
Yeah.
That was that was that was the episode where rags miscalculated the schedule.
Yeah.
That's true.
Or was it you.
Oh it was always always.
No.
Use my mind powers and I'd change the clock.
I literally can't get time wrong because I'm right in some way shape or form.
One of the time zones will help me out.
But up.
But up.
But up.
And I can just I can just edit the discord message.
You know and be like oh that's what it always said.
It's fine.
If.
30.
30 is like a milestone if you're married for.
Going to be.
It's like an anniversary.
That's your opinion.
It's like going to be the best episode ever.
I'm calling it right here.
Nothing's going to be 30.
You said that several times pine cones.
No.
This time I mean it.
And I also have the pizza to prove it.
Oh you got a pizza.
Is it just pizza is like really good for you.
Why don't you eat them all the time instead of just with you.
Look.
I eat pizza once a week.
And it is always for this show because I'm going to be here for five hours.
So I need something.
She was very very very quick.
Like it's usually like half an hour is usually the max we usually get out.
Yeah.
I'm putting out an amazing tweet.
I'm constructing it in my head.
It's going to be the most blandest tweet I've ever put out.
Other than the part where I say app events here because that's that's the part
where it's good.
Oh by the way there's a super chat mentioning me.
App about what is the government hiding from us.
Eric Stewart 10 bucks.
Hmm.
Hmm.
I don't know.
I don't know where to start.
I don't know where to start.
Government's hiding everything from us.
I think they're hiding the aliens too.
I think they're hiding tonaled.
I think that he lives in a in a small box in like area 51.
Like it's not a real house.
He's just an experiment.
He just they just let him believe that he's in a real house.
Are you saying that he lives in Nuketown all alone?
No.
No.
I'm saying I'm saying that his bedroom is his entire world.
It's kind of like the movie Room only with tonaled in it.
They haven't seen that.
They're not cultured.
You know that movie has Captain Marvel in it.
That I'm sorry about that.
Nothing I can do about that.
Yeah.
Man.
Why did she have to be good in one movie and then have to ruin my impression of it?
Yeah.
I'm going to get rid of the toxic brood title now.
But it was it was a fun run while it lasted.
The toxic brood will never be defeated.
Blah blah blah.
All the good stuff.
Sad news.
Wow.
What a bland tweet.
He's a good sweet.
He's best with.
OK.
So if up twenty eight it got it got taken down on both my channel the unlisted one and
on Moolah the reuploaded one.
The interesting thing is it got hit for pieces of copyright that were in not only.
It was the part we were looking at the mask.
That's one of them.
So you'd be like oh we must have gone over a timer.
It was arbitrary.
Whoops.
But it also got hit for stuff that was in Ren's video.
There was three instances I got hit on the second video.
And they were all from Ren's video.
And I was like oh I guess his video has gone down.
It's like nope.
His is still up.
It's very strange considering how he was like saying the film was bad.
We were saying it was good.
It's like if you're going to take one of them down maybe.
I don't know.
So yeah that's being disputed for now.
We'll we'll we'll hopefully see how it goes.
If it gets declined I'm just going to edit it and reupload it with the majority of it
covered up I guess.
I'll have to like rewatch it and make sure I uncover it on parts that actually need to
be.
I just oh fucking hell that is an awesome tweet.
I love it.
I'm going to retweet that.
They saved this for when Efap went live.
I know it.
All right yeah so we got a lot of things to actually gun through in a positive light.
Efap got a small redesign as you can probably tell.
If you're a ridiculously attentive superfan.
The watch together thing is changed.
I don't know why they changed it but it's like weird and shaped and different for aspect
ratio so I have to change us our thing for it.
But while I was doing it.
I didn't have to change mine.
You didn't.
It looks the same for me.
When projecting onto onto the OBS it like it crushed it.
If you watch the Geeks and Gamers podcast we did you can tell it like the screen looks
all funky because you know you can you can like you can stretch it and everything like
that right.
You just make it bigger or smaller if you need to.
Is it really different.
How much different is it because when I did my stream I don't think I changed really anything.
I think I just changed the position of the capture window because we had the size of
the rectangle had to change.
Obviously the Efap rectangle is stative.
So if you have a source that changes like a wish upon is stretched a little bit when
we finally get that to be released.
That's something worth mentioning.
We've experimented with Efap movies.
That's maybe going to happen if I can get that video edited up.
The first one we did was wish upon.
Has anyone ever seen that.
It's really awesome.
Oh my god.
It's the best movie I've ever seen.
Oh my experience.
I don't deny that.
I felt such a range of emotions as I was watching that movie.
You wouldn't believe it.
They were mostly positive.
Very positive.
I had a smile on my face the whole time.
Which is good.
Which is good for your horror film.
Yeah.
There's a couple of people mentioning Godelb as well.
Yes.
Godelb is coming out tomorrow.
Episode two.
It's going to be incredibly insightful for any of those who've seen the original.
It's going to smash that one.
Because that one wasn't even that insightful honestly.
It didn't even go into depth on a lot of the topics.
So this one's going to nail it.
And yeah.
Am I the only one out of the three or four of us that's seen us?
The Jordan Peele movie.
Yeah.
Probably.
Yep.
Oh well.
Suck it.
I haven't seen us.
But I've seen Get Out.
And I've read us the synopsis of it.
Because everybody thought the plot was freaking stupid.
And I'm reading the synopsis and I'm like.
Oh my god.
That's the stupidest thing I've ever read.
Did you see my tweet about it?
I tried to summarize it in two tweets.
And I was just like this is not going to work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've seen that.
I've seen that.
Oh my god.
And people are just like well.
There have been arguments that are like the themes do kind of transcend the plot.
And it's like no.
The most common thing that keeps.
The theme is that black people good white people bad.
Yay.
Oh the quartering thought that Get Out was a 10 out of 10.
He needs to see ER's video.
Get Out was okay.
Get Out was okay.
Um I kind of think it was similar for me.
I enjoyed both of them.
But both of them fall apart when you actually try to make sense of what they're telling you.
I think us was probably worse.
Uh.
I gotta be fair to Get Out.
It has more structure than us does.
Because us is like a wide scale Earth event from what they imply.
But you know.
Where's the goddamn Captain Marvel video you got beat by ER.
Why does everyone keep saying he beat me to it.
His video is like 20 percent the size of mine.
And he covered two movies at the same time.
We're doing different things.
Different thing.
But it's on the way.
I like Jurassic Park.
Okay.
Oh wait wait a second.
Somebody in the chat.
Somebody in the chat mentioned me again.
Mark Bagell.
Canadian dollars 2099.
Ababan teach the others how to get a consistent frame rate in Sekiro.
Racks to follow up the other day.
Your video was called console exclusives are good for gaming grid arguments in there.
Um how to get a consistent frame rate in Sekiro?
Um I don't really change much in the settings in Sekiro.
I got to AVP high.
Uh.
My turn.
If anybody's having low frame rate on it.
Turn off Intel Turbo Boost.
Or whatever the program is.
A lot of people will have it if you have an Intel processor.
Um I went from 10 FPS to uncapped.
Um.
That's.
For some reason.
That's not as high as 60.
Uh you can uncap it.
Yeah you can you can uncap the frame rate on Sekiro.
You can't do it on console.
Because console can only make it to 30 at most.
Because console sucks.
Well.
I think it would have been better if they'd made it exclusive on PS4.
Don't you guys?
Do you guys not share that perspective?
Uh.
Wow.
Because then we'd all have it on that.
Sure.
Thank you.
Play a different game.
Because you know.
Games never go irrelevant on consoles.
Um.
We uh.
If anybody follows me on Twitter I figure I should probably acknowledge uh.
I mean Joseph Anderson had like a weird meltdown where he became the joke police.
You can like see the whole thing.
You just look at my last tweets by about a couple of hours.
Probably.
Or scroll down a couple of them.
Whatever.
Um.
It started out the the thing got brought up.
I got like tagged in a conversation about how I'm a monster for calling him a massive.
You guys remember that was extremely controversial.
And uh.
He.
Uh.
I said they were like oh he was just so upset because he couldn't get Joseph to come on
his show.
I was like I don't even actually it's not that at all.
It's that I hate the lie that got propagated that I took back an apology that was never
that was never the case and the fact that um.
I insulted him.
And the whole point.
Did we ever even invite him to come on the show in the first place?
I said I'd be interested in having to talk about objectivity versus subjectivity those
back when he first put the video out and that's when he said maybe I would if you didn't
call me a massive.
Oh right.
A massive.
Oh that's like our code language.
Because.
What Mueller is saying.
Well no you could say it Mueller I've given you the F word pass.
You know what you should remember keep that in mind because there's a funny meme that's
been posted I can't wait to show you about that but yes.
Um clinically speaking as a as like a news presenter you know it's a quotation I'm sure
Joseph will allow me to say it in that he actually said it in a tweet so I'm pretty
sure I'm fine on this from his perspective.
I called him a massive fool.
Oh yeah because apparently being called a big gay person is a bad thing.
A large.
And so yeah he said that it wasn't a joke because you can't take that like has a joke
unless you can explain to me how it's a joke.
So does anyone here have any problem understanding that calling someone that is a joke or at least
can be a joke.
No no no objections.
I mean of course it can be taken as a joke.
No no prove it.
Why faggot.
So he was like you got to prove it's a joke that I was like I was trying to have to be a joke.
Why can't it be something endearing.
That's actually that would go into the idea of like he's he's being a big admin.
But I was just like yeah what if I find that a compliment.
Big admin that sounds like a superhero name.
Big man big.
What is the criteria for a joke anyway.
What is joke.
Well it doesn't matter what I think apparently Joseph's the the arbiter of what things are
and are not joke a thing that someone says to cause amusement or laughter.
That could literally be ever you can't say you can't say it.
No you can't say the word faggot to cause laughter.
Oh wow.
It's not.
It cannot be done.
That is an incorrect.
What you just said.
That is a naughty as they say.
So yeah.
So he moved on saying prove that it like functions as a joke.
No it's just like people laugh at it and it's absurd to call someone that in response to game critique and prove it prove it's absurd.
Like prove it's absurd to call someone that in response to them getting something wrong in game criticism.
How would that not be absurd.
And like he went on to the point of saying like by your logic anything could be absurd and then I was like OK a chair is not absurd on its own.
But if I said Rags is wrong because he's a chair that would be an absurd statement.
Like do you want to get it.
And he got all like after like a good two hours he got to the point of saying fine.
It counts as a joke.
But what word did you mean it to mean.
What definition were you running with when you said that.
Like oh bundle sticks.
Well this is the thing I said I'm happy for anybody to interpret any of the definitions whichever one makes them laugh is my goal.
And his response is like but which one were you going with.
I was like literally any of them is fine.
But which one were you going.
Basically the this if you had to get the reader's digest of this entire conversation it's that Joseph Anderson in an attempt to prove that he is not a massive faggot acted like a massive faggot.
And yeah so you guys got to see this.
It was just posted on Twitter and it's absolutely gorgeous.
Not to worry I have a word pass and word pass and word pass G word pass.
What's that one.
See you Jay.
Oh second effort.
Rags up a band Wolf Ringy.
The second F word pass granted to more by the universe.
It's beautiful.
Yeah I got all the freaking passes dude like.
That's my wallet right there.
What's the M word.
Oh massive.
Massive passes the most important one.
I like how I'm the one that granted you that one.
It was important that you did.
All right.
Then there's there's just a couple of memes I think that were delivered between perhaps I thought you guys would like to see.
Oh man.
That's freakishly detailed and you see the body.
Oh I see it.
I like that he's always smiling.
He's such a happy boy.
Yeah Rags what do you think Rags is blind.
It's covering up those.
I guess it's the close retires again those times you know.
We know the lore behind the reason why he really covers up his eyes.
Rags.
What.
Why.
Do you see this.
No it's not because I have the system.
I did.
Do you like.
Do you like picture.
I'm just glad I'm not a.
I'm just glad I'm not the fucking.
We've been this picture.
Someone says dog goes die twice.
I mean I think that I never thematically.
Now you guys have seen this.
People who don't want to struggle for context but since Appa band
hopefully hasn't seen the episode we can see what it's like for someone
who doesn't know the context to see this picture.
What is it.
Oh yeah yeah.
That one.
That one is artistry.
That is artistry.
So yeah you lost I think you'd probably be lost.
Yep I'm lost but still that one's got that one's got a lot going on
that one's got a lot going on.
A video we covered has was in was very responding to the toxic hatred
of the fan base of Star Wars towards Star Wars.
Specifically the hate mongers of the toxic brood.
Yes those guys specifically.
And it was it was very amusing because he said that they get to the point
of like so so much of aggression that they're the kind of people who
if you were provided the wrong utensil in it like a diner you'd probably
chase the waitress down an alley with a knife.
And he said that they're like verbal terrorists.
So.
We get some galaxy brain takes man.
Beautiful.
It just creates beautiful means.
Then actually I guess a fan of CJ's and the fab and
well a whole bunch of creators actually if you look at this one.
But it was pretty cool.
I saw that actually on the UFAP.
No.
Not yet.
But there's Arch Sargon Voxus.
Mahler myself CJ Wolf.
And who was that on the right.
Yeah I'm not sure who the the knight is.
And who's the guy with the hood.
I don't I don't know that arch war hammer.
I don't know that guy.
Wow.
Oh yeah.
That is.
Yeah.
Someone in chat.
Who is that on the right.
I don't recognize that person.
It's like the suit of armor with red on it.
It must be.
That is surely I would know if that's a very distinctive.
I'm waiting on chat.
There's nothing.
Nothing.
We got nothing in my.
Don't cock.
Not doing cock.
No it's not doing cock.
Yeah.
It could just be a big mouth thing.
He does not have mouth.
Major kill people have seen a lot of major kills.
I don't know what it is.
I'm going.
To kill.
Yeah.
Major kill.
Never.
I don't even know who that is.
Interesting.
And there's this one that got lost in translation I meant to put it on a
translation. I meant to put it on a while ago, but I never did, and I got reminded.
Tell me, Mr. Johnson. Oh, oh, I can't. I can't do that voice, though.
Tell me, Mr. No, I can't do that. Well, I was going to say, you just have to
box his voice. Tell me, Mr. Johnson, tell me, Mr. Johnson,
do you fear critique? We'll have to get him to read that.
Oh, if only one of us could actually do the Davy Jones voice, though. That'd be great.
Just like the obvious choice of doing this with just the pipe. That's the whole reason
this happened. Do you fear death?
Do you fear death? Why couldn't the third movie be good? Because
now it's like, I want to watch the second movie because I like it. And it's like, no,
you can't have the second movie without the third. Where they ruined that kid.
The arbitrary wolf. Well, it leaves off on like the cliffhanger
of all cliffhangers. And then they completely ruined Davy Jones.
No, much worse than Halo 2. It's far worse cliffhangers than Halo 2.
No, that one. What about Halo 1?
Halo 1 didn't really have much of a cliffhanger. That was a good cliffhanger.
There literally was not a cliffhanger. Yeah, there is.
No, there's not. Yeah, there was the one at the end.
What? There wasn't a cliffhanger in reach. Yeah, there was. It was the.
They literally wasn't. Yeah, because you don't know if you're going
to like if because that's how you get Spartans is you plant a helmet.
No grows into a Spartan. No, no. You need a helmet at the end. You see the
seat at the end. That's there on the ground. That's been playing with this wolf.
And the cliffhanger is that, oh, is the helmet going to grow into another Spartan?
And that's the master chief. And then he goes literally not goes to.
He wasn't even his helmet. It was the aliens there.
I don't know. Maybe we just played different games and I don't know what's going on.
I think you need apparently we do play different games because I don't think you're talking
about the game. Apparently, I mean, I read all the books and
the comics and the manga. You have absolutely not.
Yeah, I saw there is no manga. Yeah, there is.
No, you're a fan. You'd know that there is.
There's not a halo manga. No, there isn't.
There literally is. They only made 500.
Oh, I can hear it, though.
I mean, that's not fun. It's not good.
You know, we can hear it. It's not this doesn't count.
There was a couple of people ruined it.
Who who who were referencing that I went on a cinema sin sin stream.
He because because he challenged my assertion that cinema sins was always terrible.
That the cinema sins started out like better.
I don't think he said they were good.
He just said that they were better than they are now.
I was like, no, they're always shit.
And so we watched the the coverage of Avengers, which was the second video ever.
And holy shit, I noticed a thing.
What did he notice?
In his old work, like compared to the new stuff is he would literally do like.
So do you guys remember when Hawkeye fires an arrow into like a computer in Avengers?
When he's evil.
There are so many scenes in Avengers.
That is the one that is least to be remembered.
So he fires the arrow and it like slots in a USB thing and it deactivates one of the engines.
But like that scene, there's a lot to talk about.
There's like the idea that he had that arrow the whole time.
Like how would it take a construction?
It's kind of silly in general, just the idea of an arrow.
And it's like if he came in at an angle, surely that would never plug in.
There's little things and his coverage of it is USB arrow.
And then he moves on and you're like, it was so watching it.
You're like, wait, wait, is there any problem?
Or how do we?
Well, the problem is that he shot it in and it was the right way up the first time.
You shoot arrows, not fire them.
You can fire arrows if fire could be.
Technically, no, not really.
That's a sort of a contemporary thing that we say.
Like they went back in the day, they'd never say fire your arrow.
They probably scream like you like me, like burn it.
Like, why don't I understand?
Why would I burn my arrow?
Fire, dude.
Discharge a gun or other weapon in order to propel a bullet or other projectile.
Contemporary.
It's a contemporary definition.
Well, guess who's been using it?
Contemporaries.
Who?
Me.
Not the arrow, not arrowman.
Fucking who cares about arrowman anyway?
Archerman.
Archerman.
Nobody listens to arrowman.
But anyway, the point was that he did that a couple of times.
Like you'd be like, people are walking here.
Or there's one, you know, like the opening of the film, there's that base.
He says, secret base is open and brightly lit.
And it's like, why wouldn't it be lit?
And you saying you should be underground?
Half of it is.
I'm confused.
You sit there wondering what the problem is.
But then I was like, this was really successful.
Like from the moment it was made.
People really liked it.
I was like, why?
And it's like, why don't if you apply the inverse of what we learned about,
like, you know, when someone says this game has good game feel,
it's tactile.
And you just staple on what you think they mean by it.
And then you go with it.
When he says USB arrow, someone goes, it's dumb
because of how it never would have been shot that way.
Someone else goes, it's dumb because like, what a silly device to have.
Someone else goes, it's dumb because it comes at a long angle.
People in chat are going arrow milk.
The milk arrow.
So it's like the, I guess you could call the difference between the negative
and positive coverage.
But the idea that you just say a nebulous statement
and then your audience will fill it in for you.
It's almost clever, you know?
Like, because it really worked for him, I guess.
It wouldn't work for everybody.
How about people who said Quentin's here?
Who's Quentin?
Quentin?
I'm assuming they don't mean Quentin.
There's no way he would be here.
Yeah, I doubt that.
Unless someone's talking now.
I did see someone take Quentin, though.
Not Quentin, no check mark.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Someone said that's not the real Quentin, you massives.
So the conclusion was, by the way, that, yeah, his videos were always terrible.
And it was interesting just because they used to be shorter.
His Avengers one is like five minutes or something.
Holy shit.
I used to speed it up.
Another thing, did you guys see?
And I got some reading for you to do, Rags.
I'm so sorry.
I want you to post to you.
Very seriously.
Read it without trying to try not to react until you at least get to the second sentence.
But read it out genuinely.
This is the context is friend of mine made a video on the Buffy HD remaster being awful
because it is awful in many ways.
And he called the video the great tragedy of the Buffy remaster, which funnily enough,
because I'm pretty connected to Buffy.
I didn't actually see that it's clickbait, but I could see the argument.
Someone could make for it.
It's not a great tragedy.
It's like, well, it is in terms of TV.
I don't know.
Contextually, you could sort of argue that.
But either way, he shared with me an amusing comment with someone who was very unhappy
with him.
And I figure you could you could read it for us.
OK.
OK.
Dude, for real, fuck off.
The 1994 Rwandan genocide was a great tragedy.
The assassination of X, MLK, and John Bobby Kennedy were great tragedies.
The murder of Marvin Gaye by his own fucking dad was amazing.
Marvin Gaye by his own fucking dad was a great tragedy.
Or fuck it.
If you want to get smaller, the bastardization and significant
ruination of the first two Star Wars movies was a great tragedy.
But some shitty, cheap remaster of a campy cult hit TV show?
Well, I won't ever tell people what they should and should not feel sad about.
But I might suggest to open your fucking eyes just a little bit
and maybe reconsider what you call tragedies.
There will be more HD remasters of your stupid show.
There will not be another Marvin Gaye, Big Bopper,
Lynyrd Skynyrd, or John Fucking Denver.
Grow up.
But what if there is another Marvin Gaye, Big Bopper, Lynyrd Skynyrd, or John Fucking Denver?
I think that went well.
I collapsed.
I feel the emotion in it.
This guy's doing God's work.
Do you guys like that it says Potentially Inappropriate?
Potentially Inappropriate.
He said the Big Gay.
But yeah, can you picture the context?
You're just chilling out, looking at some comments on your video
where you've managed to summarize in 20 minutes what's wrong with the
remaster of seven season TV show.
And then some guy, it just begins with the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
Like, what the fuck?
Just like, well, all right then.
This is where we're going.
You got some intense comments through life.
So, I mean, the funnies keep on coming.
So this one's actually like not a blue hate us or people we like thing.
But again, it's something fun to read.
So I have a subreddit that's a fan subreddit, I guess.
And I checked it out.
And it was a post that said, I had a weird dream about Efap Gang last night.
And he describes it.
Efap Gang.
He describes the dream.
And I mean, I guess Rags, if you want to give it the old.
Yeah, sure.
Let's give it a look.
All right.
I had a weird dream about the Efap Gang last night.
So in the dream, Lucasfilm was shooting episode nine in my city,
which is weird, seeing as how I live in northern Minnesota,
not exactly the most alien of landscapes.
They were filming an action scene in a suburb,
and the crew was pretty close to where I live.
I walked up to see them filming, as did a lot of people.
And the scene they were shooting is as follows.
Luke, who apparently didn't die, kills Han Solo,
who also didn't die with a lightsaber to the neck.
In true Disney fashion, the lightsaber didn't act like a real lightsaber
and left only a neat surgical incision.
Luke then fought a bunch of monsters that looked like that stupid monster
from The Force Awakens that I'm too lazy to look up.
And as he sliced through those creatures,
he collected gold coins from the corpses like a video.
It was very confusing.
Halfway through the shoot, I heard familiar voices,
and I looked across the scene to see Mauler, Rags, and Wolf.
However, they weren't their avatars imagined as physical beings,
or even people with their profile pictures on their faces.
They were like the Discord.
Complete with a green ring to signify speech.
They didn't say anything of note, only meme lines.
Who wrote this?
Who wrote this?
And I'm Rags.
Hello, all my n-words, et cetera.
Even though they were essentially algorithms,
it was a wild surprise that they came to my neck of the woods
to watch Disney make a Star Wars movie.
After the shoot, I ran over to them,
but by the time I got there, Wolf and Mauler had already left.
I told Rags that I really appreciated his work on eFap
and his Fallout 76 video,
and he critiqued literally every word of my compliment
while bragging about being a paper merchant
at his town's Renaissance Fair.
Also alluded to his home in Michigan,
even though he's mentioned several times that he lives.
Also, subconscious me needs to catch up on his lore
because Dream Rags alluded to his home in Michigan,
even though he's mentioned several times
that he lives in Arkansas and Wolf is from Michigan.
Then without transition, I was walking through a forest with Rags
at this point, he resembled the Sheev Avatar,
and we stopped at a laptop just laying there.
He turned it on and we watched a movie about the Crystal Foxes
from The Last Jedi that he and Wolf had made
with Mauler narrating it like Morgan Freeman
and either Kingie or Appa been playing the fox.
When I woke up, I kept thinking about how objectively good
the movie was.
I could see how from a dream perspective though,
how he would just see the discord icon.
I love the idea of just three levitating discord icons,
glowing green whenever we talk and only saying memes.
Now I'm picturing March of the Penguins,
but with the Crystal Foxes.
Oh, by the way, guys, I want to share you something.
It's a little not safe for work, but it's a tweet.
Okay.
Oh, try not to show it on screen first before
because there's a not safe for work image at the bottom
because I don't know why.
If someone's response to accessibility
slash difficulty changes is,
but that would change the game fundamentally.
The response is and should just be the screenshot.
Oh, wait, do you want to talk about this?
Or do you want to talk about the actual not safe for work thing?
No, no, I want to talk about that.
No, we used to call this cheats.
Now we call this assist mode.
Oh, I see what you mean.
Once upon a time, putting on guard mode was like a jokey thing
you could do once you've actually,
but it meant you're not playing the game.
You know, but now it's like, can we have that mode, please?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, people just want to be given.
They just want to be given the game to be.
It's not even about playing it.
It's about, oh, yeah, I beat it.
Yeah, put on easy mode.
Like this guy's literally saying,
you need to have a mode where you literally can't die in the platformer.
Like, oh, why not just watch a movie problem?
I think a lot of the time is the game is like,
oh, it's just a medium like music, like books,
like movies, like TV shows, and all of them don't have a difficulty.
And you're like, huh?
Uh-huh, but like, how do they?
Someone said it's game journalist mode, basically.
Pretty much.
I suppose you could write a book that has difficulty
based on the kind of language it uses or how long it is
or how dense the book is.
That could be like changes for what people could.
But again, still, games are like the only medium
that prevent you from consuming them completely
based on your abilities.
Outside of books preventing you unless you have eyes.
Like, I guess you could use Braille.
Or unless it's a David Cage game.
That's probably offensive to somebody.
Unless.
What are you talking about?
David Cage fans and me.
Wait, hold on.
Hold on, full stop.
Are there David Cage fans at all?
I mean, we'll find out.
Someone in chat's gonna be like,
I unironically love it.
And then we'll be like, you're a fucking liar.
Come on.
There's no David Cage fans.
I mean, no unironically.
OK, that's not David Cage, though.
Well, it's Nicholas Cage.
It's his brother.
Yeah.
Wait, seriously?
You have the same last name makes it.
No, I well, I didn't I didn't put two and two together.
I. Wow.
No, I never thought that David Cage was Nicholas Cage.
I don't know what he looks like.
So I didn't I just I just made it up a moment ago.
Mm hmm.
Oh, really?
Oh, he's just disappointed.
So the other thing I was about to make a joke like, man,
two acts of talents.
We saw your games acting.
We do it all.
We saw the the the the E.R.
Referenced.
Jackson and Eric tax and it was hilarious, by the way.
I know chat.
We're going to ask about it.
It was amazing.
You should watch that part again and again.
I'm not sure how he knows about them.
It makes us wonder if.
Yeah.
Maybe he watches.
It's a fairly secure sort of reference, I guess.
You hear that?
Yeah, we're on to you.
You you racialize it.
So before we get into meme videos,
we're going to read something that will be more relevant
as the stream goes on.
But down with thrust and I think you guys know about this already,
but he has experienced hate.
OK, hey.
Oh, God, is this what I showed you that fucking.
So he's provided us
on hate.
May I have reading this?
You you you may.
Oh, I because I love totaled.
I'm as big as a fan.
This is a PSA from Tonald and it refers to hate.
This is a PSA from Tonald.
Oh, this is funny.
All right.
PSA.
So so this is a this is a PSA from our Lord and Savior
and the president of the intellectual gaming community.
Tonald Loke called hate on the Internet.
Being on the Internet is a crime easy to find.
No matter the outlet.
Someone has something crime easy to say about someone.
It's bullying behind the safety of anonymity and invisible walls
with no recourse from Taylor Swift to.
Oh, my God.
He's making more.
All right.
Is it going to go from Bilbo Baggins to Taylor Swift?
No, anyway.
Well, do you want people to be anonymous on the Internet?
Taylor Swift.
Basically, you know, OK.
OK.
So from Taylor Swift to LeBron James to me or any YouTuber
who has something to share or say, hate speech will always exist.
Why do people do it?
Why do people choose to be spiteful, malicious and hateful?
Even in the presence of some sort of a civil opinion.
Why do they have to be so mean?
Well, is it it's so pathetic?
How dare you?
Is it because they simply want to express opinions,
have their voices heard by trying to be the loudest or the most obnoxious?
Dot dot dot hoping to.
Oh, my God.
He's putting pauses in himself.
He writes the way he talks.
That's amazing.
Hoping to stir up something.
Which came first?
True.
No, it's not.
Bringing people down is the opposite of cool.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Donald Mike is the king of cool.
Bringing people down is the opposite of cool.
I'm I'm taking that one.
That's my name.
There's a difference between being critical and being attacking, being attacking, attacking,
being critical invites discussion while still allowing opinions to be shared.
Attacking someone is an exercise in focusing harm or emotional damage
onto someone else.
Some people cross that line easily all the time.
Why, why, why, why, why I've always been under the school of thought that those who want
to bring about pain in people through hurt simply don't love them.
You want to bring pain through it.
He was killed by death.
I've always been.
Oh, wait, being rude to someone.
That's not that's not a sentence.
Tonal.
No, that's hurt.
It hurts like it's through pain.
OK, OK, OK.
Being rude to someone, judging someone by their color, insulting someone for sharing
a different religion, value or opinion than this have to do with wishing harm on them,
telling them to tell them to jump off a bridge.
Do you think that someone do you think someone might have told Tonal to jump off a bridge
at some point because that seems like a very specific.
He'd make a video.
Why why I was wrong about jumping off that bridge.
It has got to stem from one's inability to love who they are.
What?
Oh, my God.
Appa, can you damaged?
Can you cue to the stars from the Dragonheart soundtrack?
Because this sounds like something that needs like something inspirational to go along with it.
Will we get copyright for that?
Oh, I was about to say that.
I was about to say that.
OK, does hate make them feel better?
Is it fun?
Do these people get some sick high by opening wounds in people?
I highly doubt that.
I truly believe they go to sleep at night and think about the things they have said to hurt people.
And it makes them feel worse.
It's like this is psycho analyzed by total.
Right.
Do you know the quote I'm thinking of in it's part two or anybody who's seen that?
I don't know if Wolf do you did you see the original TV movie one?
Yeah, I do.
Like when fuck is it Beth?
The older Beth?
She's like, why does it have to hate?
Why is it so cruel?
Why is it so mean?
Yeah.
OK, so.
This is the side to hurtful people they don't want you to know or see.
Deep down hurting people hurts them more than those they hurt.
What a character.
What a character.
My stance on hate on the Internet has it always will be to ignore it at all costs.
What a straight.
What is this?
I choose never to respond to any of it because there's really no point,
no spotlight, attention or recognition is deserved by these people.
Not an ounce of energy should be exerted into communicating or
highlighting the hurtful things these people say.
It's hard sometimes watching people say
bad things about you when they've never met you to have people throw insults at you.
At you at will.
That's that's very redundant tonal.
Like like you're that's the wrong.
We're not doing it at will.
We're doing it at tonal.
Like you're an actor on stage and you are getting pegged with tomatoes and
rotten cabbages and to have to sit there and take the ball.
To make.
Oh, total total.
No, let's not make that a name.
Let's just knock up.
Bailin bailin.
Why would you have to do that?
No.
Why would I not have bail and do that?
Do you have to you have to specify for it?
Maybe we can specify two different versions of it.
Why does there have to be the not safe for work version?
Why can't the word research purposes?
I love the specifies tomatoes and rotten cabbages like oh, the tomatoes are fresh.
Tomatoes are fine.
I just put those on my salad.
It's a hard situation to deal with, but to avoid the bullying, you have to deflect it.
Feeding the trolls, you shouldn't have capitalized to the and fighting back will
only result in more hate speech.
These people love the attention and they are craving for a response.
More hate speech.
I never give it to them by not giving two fucks about it.
Hey, you're supposed to censor that tonal.
Don't fucking swear.
I quite literally dodging the bloat.
Wait, I quite literally.
I quite literally dodging the bloat.
I quite literally dodging the bloat.
Is this like a there?
There's been a bad thing said about me in the past and I always get the same questions
for most people.
What? Well, that's one question, not questions.
You did say question.
Okay. Oh, okay.
What do I have to say about it?
You're just assuming at this point is grammar is wrong.
And I have to provide a response that will always remain nothing.
Well, this is definitely nothing.
Every single time anything hateful said about me has ever happened.
I've put it out of my mind.
I'm numb to it.
Oh, that's what this sounds like.
This that's what this sounds like.
So much like many celebrities are are are wait.
What in the okay.
Look at that.
Much like most celebrities are though.
I'm hardly in that position at all.
I just make YouTube videos for a small audience.
There's nothing beyond the you don't put quotation marks or parentheses after.
Tonal that that much like celebrities are you're supposed to pick up that sentence after.
Much like celebrities are.
Yeah, it's like the inflation is much like.
I think he forgot to write the rest of that.
He was too stricken with grief and he lost his place.
Much like celebrities are you can't engage with hate because it will eat you alive.
All my energy goes into the good souls of the world.
Wow, what a massive faggot.
To share my love and my attention with those that would rather bring others up
than slam them into the dirt.
Energy is limited, especially as we get older.
Focus on what's important to you.
And I promise you'll learn to accept the best way to deal with hate on the internet
is to show those people that they mean nothing to you.
They won't get one second of my writing this manifesto.
Writing all of this probably took longer than one second.
What a strange thing to write.
Oh, total.
That was.
That was just one one big.
Bitch, that's all it was.
It was just one long, big.
I don't know about the timeline.
I'm pretty sure that's before his DMC five video came out,
but he had, you know, there's lots of other things that would have caused it.
That poor man.
You guys just leave him alone.
So, yeah, we're almost into meme videos now.
I just want to show you guys that the creator of one of the memes we're going to see
is this the 3D one, the fabled 3D one.
And this is the model for me.
And this is the model for what Wolf and Rags are in the good word thing.
So, yo, pretty cool.
You got a good hologram.
That's amazing.
That art, by the way, with the lightsaber, is that something you had in one of your
videos or did he put that together with other things?
I do not have a lightsaber.
No, that's never been something I've had commissioned or worked on.
Yes, he customized it.
Oh, I didn't know you could like move the thing around.
Yes.
Left mouse, right mouse and middle mouse will get you all your options.
Oh, Rags, is that like a picture that was just like Photoshop?
Oh, you must have been holding something.
Were you holding your glasses in that one?
Oh, that could be it.
Let me take a look.
It could be you like because that looks like unless they got like someone else to
perfectly replicate a picture of you.
All right.
So what that is, it looks like one of my just a basic standing pose that I had
done or sitting.
Yeah, it looks like what he did was I had the glasses and the cloth on my hand,
but he took off the glasses and cloth and then he took off the right arm and then just
readjusted it a bit.
That's what I think you did.
Yeah.
If you zoom into the bottle for my character's hand,
the actual like little imprint of a rhino face on it.
Oh, hold on.
Okay, hold on.
Let's see this.
Oh, how do you zoom in on that part specific?
Oh, okay.
Here we go.
You got to use the right.
Yes, lots of things.
Well, I mean, we'll probably.
That's incredible.
Is this going to be the meme to end all memes?
He said I photoshopped his glasses off his hand and added a cartoon saver with new glasses.
It looks very good.
Yeah.
Yes, a new class of meme.
And so what's together?
Yes, let's jump into the watch together.
Because it would sense to show that one first.
I believe it's called the Knights of the map.
Is everybody in?
Let me get my watch together.
I guess I closed it probably because I was fucking sick that panda shit.
How dare you insult the pandas?
Oh, are you in there?
Okay, there we go.
Epic laughs.
Okay, so this is the Knights of
I believe.
Fucking used to have more information with the old watch together.
But now I have to like do other things.
So the YouTube channel is spook.
And it's yeah, it's called the Knights of the people to find it out.
S.O.O.K.
S.P.
I was supposed to say zero zero.
Oh, okay.
And here we go.
So is the always everybody good for sound stuff.
Yeah, that's good.
Someone paused.
Oh, whoops.
Whoops.
Wait.
I think it's echoing in my end.
Okay, try that.
They did.
That didn't help.
Okay.
All right.
I can't specifically confirm, but I'm assuming everything is custom,
unless there may be some answers before he's probably gonna be able to
confirm that.
Also, yeah, that that theme song was from the Clone Wars.
I don't think it played long enough for it to be claimed.
Let's just hope we make it past.
What the hell is a cherry tomato?
Oh, bloody hell.
I don't know what a cherry tomato is.
So I can't.
I love how that's so it's fantastic.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, when I said that I didn't know what you were talking about,
all you just had to say was, well, they're little tomatoes.
Oh, fuck.
Let's get this over with.
Oh, no, it's not.
Olives are not the same range.
Okay.
I just need to see this because you have to look.
Oh,
Oh,
I'm quitting reviews.
And this is a copy.
Oh my God.
Mullen rags.
What are objective values?
How's that?
Oh, burning your expectation.
Just fuck off.
You tool.
Jesus.
And that wolf guy.
That wolf guy.
Oh my God.
That was amazing.
The lightsaber with a hologram was so funny.
How do you click on the video?
Oh my God.
That's okay.
Here.
No, just scroll down and it'll pop up in the top right.
Oh, cool.
I got to click the like button.
Okay.
Here's the link everybody so that you can all like this video too.
It's called the Knights of Efap for those of you who are not watching this.
Yeah.
And he did say all the assets were from scratch, by the way.
Pretty awesome.
Wow.
Which means I imagine he may want to make more stuff with it.
Otherwise, you know, he's fine.
I'm not saying I would love to see more 3D Efap memes.
I'm not saying that.
I'm just saying.
I cannot believe that we have got to a point where someone took the time out of his day
to animate 3D models of us arguing about cherry tomatoes in Quentin in a 3D format.
That is amazing.
This is the best community ever.
This is the future.
It's what the future is.
The future.
Yes.
Yeah, this was Creamy Sheev.
Pushed this out quite quickly after the newer trailer for...
It's...
Oh, wait.
That's actually a good point.
I don't know how much you'll mind this, Rags, because you don't want to see anything to do with
Avengers trailers.
But it's like an 18 second meme.
And it's just the only thing it confirms is the Captain Marvel has met Thor.
That's going to happen.
But we already knew that anyway.
Okay.
We should be fine.
Why not?
Why not?
Oh.
Hello there.
I like this one.
Watch him all his follows.
Why am I always a woman?
I don't know.
Because of Aliens Colonial Marines.
That's where it all goes back to.
You were the woman for most of it.
Because it swapped our characters, because the game is so bad,
it completely flipped our characters.
Wait, I thought that was the girl, though.
Yeah, I started out as the girl.
And you were going to shine your flashlight at me, and you blew yourself up instead.
Those are the good times.
You were the chick for the vast majority of it.
I feel slighted.
I feel like I'm being misgendered on a daily basis.
It's like a weekly basis at most.
That's traumatic.
Trauma is necessary.
As the great tonal said, people cause pain with hurt.
Oh, and Spook said it took around five weeks to make that.
Well, thank you.
Good lord.
Lord.
I love it, though.
We all loved it.
It was great.
So the next one is from Understanding or Trying To.
That's actually the name of the channel.
Understanding or Trying To.
It's a Terminator 2 meme.
Already.
I like the Disney.
Disney is its own thing.
Oh, god.
We haven't even got into like one frame yet and already.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm going to have to do posing for this shit as well.
Grow from understanding the difference between facts and feelings.
Down on the floor now.
You're watching movies wrong.
You're watching movies wrong.
Okay, drop it.
So let's try another example.
I love that there's a board there, too.
Yeah.
Jedi has no inconsistencies in either its characters or its plot.
Right.
Wrong.
To be inconsistent is qualifying.
You're the first simplistic it gets sometimes.
These will just be good guys, bad guys.
Okay.
Outside of invention.
It is simple.
You present the objective criteria, then you satisfy the objective criteria and reach a conclusion.
In my subjective opinion.
Do you understand that in the land of subject-
No, I'm not murdering them.
Just shooting them in the knee.
That's true, actually.
Because John said, I don't want you to kill anybody.
But stop a suit.
The robot is very consistent.
Think that it is logically written when it is proven not to be by any logical standard.
The facts exist.
I just killed Disney with The Last Jedi.
And you can feel as you do in support of them or regardless of them.
Just don't be so stubborn as to-
He's just shooting the gas canisters, then.
Okay, okay.
Actually happened.
Rewatch.
God, I thought you were a fan of this movie.
I haven't seen it before.
What is this one?
Toraminator.
Just how you felt.
Turtle.
Turtle Gator.
Oh yeah.
Unlike the bit at the end, he actually shows some goofs.
There's a crew member over there.
And another one there as well, who's just sitting down with earphones on or something.
Yeah.
Wait, what?
You see that?
It's on my screen.
Yeah, there's on the right-hand side.
Next to the mess.
Oh, this is like, this is a good movie.
I've never noticed that before.
I'm going to be a star.
Subscribe.
Some memers.
They're all working together to create memehood.
And that's funny.
Just one more.
This one is from No Consistency.
We got us a brand new-
Oh boy.
I'm moving.
We have-
Oh god.
He's probably with us twice, to be honest.
We have a token green person here, and you won't even represent him.
Isn't token the guy who wrote the Lord of the Rings movies?
Yes.
George R.R. Token.
Game of the Rings is what it was.
He wrote Game of the Rings.
Isn't there like, there's nine rings, and you've got to beat a boss to earn a ring.
Once you get nine, you win.
Well, the key is to get to nine rings and put them on your hands at the same time.
So that only one of your fingers doesn't have a ring on it.
It's got to be the left pinky, too.
And it becomes like the powerful finger.
You hold up the pinky, and then everyone bends to your will.
That's my opinion.
That's the guy who started lore.
I invented lore.
I can't believe people pay us for this.
I love these.
I love how the recommended video is just the back of a black dude's head.
We have, I just love the fucking Russian wolf.
I was wondering what this was going to be.
You never know what they're going to pick.
I was like, I completely forgot we even did that.
I think it's perfectly highlighted.
Yeah, I was like, who's the girl?
Like, I didn't even realize it first.
There's the big three every week.
Man, yeah.
Wonderful.
All right.
So we got a starter, and then we got the main event.
We got good old Hello Greedo has put out a video.
It's only four minutes long.
Explaining to us that the resistance bombers do actually make sense.
Oh, before we do that, though, I got a quick thing to say.
Go for it.
Um, I have talked to Jack and it.
You don't don't don't yeah, I know.
So we haven't set up any debate yet.
But it went civilly.
We plan on talking again.
So yeah, that happened.
There we go.
He frightened.
It was also a bad movie.
I want to give him a bit of like, you know, what did you talk about?
You know how to go.
Yeah, you talk about.
Oh, well, well, yes, of course we did.
Um, well, we if you've seen Jack video, it it went about as the conversation
went pretty much like any Jack video would, which you guys can fill in the blanks there.
It's it went as you would expect it to go.
But it was civil.
We were nice to each other and we still talk planning on talking again.
He's going to hook up again, huh?
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, good.
Yeah, good.
Also, Willem is a bad movie.
I'm glad you're putting yourself out there, Wolf.
Yes, I am glad.
I'm glad you're really on that.
I'm really I'm glad you're getting on the getting out and about,
getting in the scene of things.
Glad you're on the market again.
Yeah, I just I do think it's sweet that Jack is quoting you.
That you're you're responding to it, you know, so it's a relationship
to be bloomed.
You know, that's that's the take.
I think it's the correct one to bloom the balloons.
Mahler back me up here.
Willow is a bad movie.
I don't know what you mean.
I'm going to leave you hanging.
Well, we were just talking about that.
No, we look.
Okay, here's the thing with Willow.
It is a very bad knockoff of the Lord of the Rings,
because George Lucas tried to get the rights to the Lord of the Rings,
but he couldn't get them.
So he spitefully made Willow instead.
And it's really terrible.
And you only like it because of nostalgia purposes.
Like you have to take off those glasses.
It's bad.
Yeah, I'm doing an audio commentary for it soon.
And I did a rewatch of it.
And it's it's just funny how threadbare all of the beats are.
But yet all of the beats are there as in like,
very similar to Lord of the Rings to the point where I was like, man,
I could literally a rip off of it.
I could have believed this came out after Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings.
Like I would have been like, yeah, that makes sense with how much
his copy is like, oh, got the books.
You're like, oh, yeah.
But even like, congratulations, even the fellowship part of it
where they like leave his hometown with like seven guys or whatever.
Then like, they barely have any development.
And then like all of them go home and he's on his own.
And then he meets another dude who's supposed to be the standard
for what I assume is Aragorn.
And then there's the romance where it's like, I love you.
And she's like, oh, so bad.
Do you have money?
Do you have the nine rings on your fingers?
They didn't even do the nine rings, man.
Didn't even do the nine instead.
It was like this really annoying baby that you're just like,
can it just die already?
Can we can we?
Well, that's just any baby.
I just I read that I feel that apparently the filming took long enough
that the baby outgrew like the holder thing.
So they had to get a new baby.
They were like desperately like, get us a new baby.
Do you know what that's what it is?
Yeah, well, luckily, all babies look the same, so it's no big deal.
Willow is better because it hired actual little people
instead of forced perspective.
Wouldn't know it's a win for inclusion.
I was going to say, wouldn't the latter be more impressive as a technical feat?
Not to mention, no one was really a particularly good actor in that film.
Whereas Lord of the Rings had excellent acting.
Well, yeah, that's it's height appropriate.
Not to mention that we're I don't think the people in Willow were hobbits.
They were just little people who were called Elwins.
I believe that was their race.
That's not the same thing.
They've replaced all the races like that sounds like some OC bullshit.
Like Nagini is what they call humans.
I think that's what it was.
I watched it recently.
I should remember this completely.
Oh, what did I tell you?
Yeah, the name for the film originally was going to be Munchkins.
Munchkins.
Yeah, really?
Which is super fucking awkward, but luckily it got changed because good God.
But they changed it to Willow.
It lost to Willow.
Well, yeah, not to mention, not to mention the Lord of the Rings did have little people
for certain shots where it wasn't focusing in on the characters faces.
There you go.
Or forced perspective literally was not possible.
So there we go.
You're already right.
So, yeah, is everyone ready to jump into this resistance bombers video?
Let's jump right into this.
I haven't seen that Star Wars thing of you.
What?
That Star Wars movie, TLJ.
I think it's the last.
Yeah, I think I saw it on the TV somewhere.
Oh, sweet.
Okay.
You'll know the context.
I saw it on a screen somewhere.
Big trouble in little Tybee.
I don't get the whole reference, but I get where it's coming from.
You guys seem big trouble in little China.
No, man.
That was years ago.
I saw munchkins though.
It was like decades ago.
So much that was little trouble on the big screen.
Yeah.
Yeah, but Lord of the Rings.
I want to know when it came out.
One second.
1986.
Wow.
My brain is trusty today.
Trust.
We're the trust.
All the way to the tunnel.
Anyway, let's just kick on, shall we?
Do not trust your mind.
It lies to you or your eyes.
They lied to you too.
The whole body is sent against you.
Those traitors around every corner.
Watch out, Anakin.
I didn't even want to ask who that was supposed to be.
There's actually an official explanation about the resistance bombs,
but I personally don't think that the official explanation is really necessary.
According to the last year, I visual dictionary.
The bombs are magnetic, which is so fucking dumb.
Okay, so two things in microgravity, but are impelled.
I didn't even know the word impelled.
They're impelled.
It's like compelled, but impelled.
Impelled from their rocks, impelled from their racks.
Sorry.
By sequenced electromagnetic plates in the clip.
The bombs are then killed by magnetically to their unfortunate targets.
If the unfortunate targets, the bombs could then,
I guess they have something to prevent them from being drawn from each other
because that would be awkward, wouldn't it?
Well, anything that sticks to other things will almost inherently stick to itself.
But is it wet?
Hey, Greedo, maybe if this was explained in the movie,
I could all forgive it, but it's not.
So I don't care about your stupid book that nobody read.
He infin, he ditches this immediately.
He's not a fan of it anyway.
Well, it's like, why defend this at all?
Why make this a video?
Why defend this of all the things?
Because of all things to defend.
Why this thing?
I'm pretty sure he's going to make that argument in reverse.
Like, of all the things to attack, why this?
Well, it's just one of the many, many things to attack.
It's just on our big list.
It's on our scroll that we unfurl at parties.
Does that mean you just need a copper star destroyer to be immune to the bombs?
You just need the right metal and you'll be fine.
Magnetic, which, you know, that makes sense,
but it's not really a necessary explanation.
I think magnets kind of complicates things.
Look, obviously there's artificial gravity on all of these spaceships.
There's an up bend a down inside of the crafts.
If you drop a lollipop, it'll fall to the floor at the bottom of the bomber.
That doesn't make sense, though.
Let's see where he goes with it.
And then release the bombs on their vertical track.
They will fall down and continue their trajectory based off of their momentum.
This requires no magnet.
So like this.
All right.
So when logic was on, when we had logic, we were talking about these bombers for a long time.
And we understood that this this doesn't work.
You can't use that.
You can't use momentum to bring these things out of the ship.
The reason why you can't do that is because you only are going to be gathering the momentum
while you're inside the microgravity of the ship.
You're not going to gain it once you enter no atmosphere,
which means the bombs at the very bottom have much less time to gather all that momentum,
which means that the bombs at the top are going to have a lot more time to gather momentum
and go much faster like a like a bullet or even leaving a rifle.
Like his visualization here is extremely charitable.
That's the bombs at the top will make they'll be held up by the bombs at the bottom.
And if anything, they will speed fast and hit the bombs below them
because they've had more time to gain momentum.
And if you argued, well, they cannot be detonated by themselves or the other bombs.
There's a thing that makes that happen.
You'd be like, OK, but it would just knock them around.
You start to see them clump just below the fucking bomber itself.
You know, what would have fixed all of this if they used missiles like every other Star Wars.
It's like once you realize how inefficient this is, you're like, why don't you just have a missile?
That would make a lot more sense.
Because Ryan Johnson just had to have his stupid World War Two moment that nobody cares about.
If they I was about to say if they dropped one at a time from the biggest height
for me to rack one, one, one, I could see some form, but then I'd just be like,
that's so inefficient compared to using it in any other way.
Yeah, because you'd still have to fly on top of whatever you're trying to shoot at
instead of just shooting missiles from a distance and zooming away.
Like, it's a really, really, really, really, really fucking stupid design.
You need to get over that and accept the fact that Ryan Johnson made a terrible decision.
But my will fucking movie.
Yes.
Kinetic technology, no technological explanation.
You have a payload.
You have a payload door.
And if you drop the bombs from a place with Earth like gravity to a place with no gravity,
the bombs will continue their path at the speed of freefall
until they hit something or something hits them.
It's Newton's first law of motion.
Oh, so you don't understand it.
Okay.
I was like, oh, so you don't understand it.
Okay.
There's actually kind of a scientifically accurate way of explaining the bombs using
the same gravity that people claim makes the bombs unbelievable.
One of the strangest complaints I've heard about the last Jedi and look,
I have problems with the last Jedi.
No, you don't.
I can't believe I have to keep fucking saying that.
Because you always cuck yourself for this stupid movie.
Hey, man.
You always passive aggressively.
I mean, he always passive aggressively defends this film
and then pretends like he doesn't like it as much as he obviously does.
I don't know.
I think I think he's like, you guys are hating it too much.
It should have some hate, but not as much as like people who hate.
Oh, good.
Yeah, which is why he's defending the bombers.
Mm hmm.
Strange.
Yeah, this is the same guy who maybe he's made a lot of points about a lot of different
elements.
I just know that he made this one.
But I mean, we also watched the other video where he was like,
does it really matter if raisin do it's like, yes, I hate this hack.
And one of the things that people seem to have a problem with is gravity.
Like I've seen countless videos and comments and posts about how people have a problem
that there are bombers that drop bombs in Star Wars.
And then it doesn't make sense with how gravity works in the real world.
Hey, hey, this is Star Wars.
You're gonna have a problem with the loss.
If it's as basic as gravity, then yes.
If you fuck up gravity, I'll be like, yeah, that's just kind of weird.
I want to know how far I can push this weird principle.
It's like that you can't see anything throughout the whole movie.
And I'm like, yeah, light, light isn't realistic in Star Wars.
So it's all dark.
Okay, like what if you just have characters randomly jumping 30 feet in the air and
landing without a problem and jumping off the cliffs?
And if you're just going to ignore, if you're just going to ignore basic physics for everything,
then what's the danger?
What's this?
What's that?
And the fact that he uses a Star Wars helmet is like, okay.
They take a lot of, they work with the fact that there's no gravity in space in a lot of other
elements.
So it's like, is that dumb?
Are you saying like it's unnecessary that they do like the fact that they would have
a blue holographic sort of like lining against the hanger to the outside of space to imply
that it's not a vacuum because they have this technological field.
Would he be watching that and being like, it doesn't matter.
Star Wars.
You need to put that there.
Yeah, it's just space.
Okay.
In real life, you'll be a vacuum.
You don't need to do that.
It's a Star Wars.
I don't need that.
I just be sitting there like, Oh, would you mind if I have it?
We should just go by Jimmy Neutron rules where they don't need to have helmets in space.
He's a kid with a knack for adventure.
Yeah.
Now?
With his fat friend and his retarded friend.
In a franchise that has taken more liberties when it comes to the laws of physics than
any other franchise.
Now.
More liberties.
What is this music in the background?
It's generic background track for video essay.
You guys think that Star Wars is the franchise that's taken the most liberties with physics?
What about Treasure Planet?
That's a far better.
That's a way better example.
I'm trying to think of like, even a ventures, maybe,
like there's a lot of crazy fucking shit that happens to that.
I don't know.
I'd love to just hear examples.
If he said you can hear sounds in space, I would just like to hear the diagetic versus
non-diagetic thing, but also get out that it's a consistent ruling as opposed to this being
fucking strange.
Because, you know, you feel like wouldn't there be a redesign for a lot of things if
this was the case, but references.
Um, if someone said lightsabers, they're not real.
I should be like, hmm.
Our argument isn't that it's unrealistic.
Inconsistent.
Is inconsistent.
It makes no fucking sense.
Intimidate a liquid metal time travel.
Come on.
No, that makes more sense than Star Wars.
Is when you're going to have a problem with it.
Interesting.
The explanation.
Like when example.
Oh, okay.
Is when you're going to have a problem with it.
Interesting.
The explanations for things in Star Wars are always fun, right?
But if you're looking for scientific accuracy in the wars,
you're looking at the wrong franchise.
Are bombs in space kind of a stupid weapon in space?
Yeah, well, like all of this is a non-argument.
This isn't an argument.
Well, it's dumb.
We can suspend our disbelief to an extent.
Like sounds in space, explosions in space.
Like that's just so it does not.
It's not actually boring, you know.
Yeah, I mean, if it was plot or anything.
Yeah, but once you start saying, okay, um, bombs can fall through space like nothing
or Leia can survive through space like nothing.
That's when you've broken that immersion.
Can destroy trees with lightning.
What?
I suppose it is in real life.
If the Air Force was designing some kind of space to space weapon,
they probably wouldn't use bombs or torpedoes or bullets or lasers.
They'd probably come up with something new, right?
But this is Star Wars where things are very World War II.
Where space mentions a laser.
Why don't I don't.
Why are things World War II, World War II is.
Well, there's plenty.
A lot of the original inspirations for the vehicle spacecraft are taken from World War II designs.
That's why people try and justify Ryan Johnson's one as being like, it's also like from World War II.
But it's just like if I had, you know, fucking a Panzer tank in space, just floating there.
And I'm like, see, World War II.
It's just imagery.
Why can't it have the aesthetic of something from World War II,
but also be functional and practical?
And that makes sense in its own world.
Like when he said lasers, that was like, see, World War II.
Do you guys remember what that laser smells like?
Yeah, secret Nazi moon base space program.
Yeah.
Maybe he's referencing CAP, like Captain America Fist Avengers,
where they have the laser weapons.
Maybe he thinks that's like history or documentary or whatever.
It is history.
That's how we got the first Avenger.
They should bank as if they're in Earth's atmosphere.
Sorry.
Did you say the first event?
I'm pretty sure the first Avenger was Captain Marvel, dude.
Sorry.
Sorry about that.
You probably didn't know.
You probably thought he made that mistake.
He's the second Avenger.
She's the original.
In fact, the team actually adopted her name for their team name because she's so awesome.
I can't believe that's a thing.
In this sphere, where the Empire chooses to send giant slow ass mechanical elephants
to the snow coming from one direction instead of deploying units on all flanks.
Yeah, I guess those look like elephants.
Most people say camels, but more elephants.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah, I just want to remark on the idea
that he's criticizing these things in a battle that they dominated.
Like, yeah, I get it.
They're not as good as they could potentially be.
There's criticisms to be had there.
But I mean, Hoth was defeated with ease with these things.
Seem to have no problem with that.
Yeah.
And I suppose you could say, well, the bomber did was successful.
And it's like, yeah, for some reason that they just don't shoot it somehow.
Basically because of a fluke.
It was just the last one to explode.
I mean, they they had to give it plot armor.
A half a tie fighter destroyed three of them.
And it wasn't even aiming while the red bite.
Yeah, completely.
Yeah, it was wreckage.
The last record unmanned wreckage.
The last the last one just doesn't get shot at,
or at least if it does, it doesn't do anything.
You know, and it's just like, yeah, it's just random.
It just gets plot armor.
They gave the last bomber plot armor so we could get to where it needed to be.
The other ones, yeah, they got fucked up.
Like the 8080s, you know, this is there was like a full on fucking fleet of them.
I don't know what you would say for 8080s.
But how many of them destroyed?
I want to say like four at most.
I can't remember there'd be much more than that.
Face from the sky.
There's a lot of silly tactics in Star Wars.
A lot of silly.
When it's dumb, it's fine because other things are dumb.
Oh, man.
Again, I'm curious where his line would be.
How dumb does it have to be before you go?
Okay, this is too dumb.
Tech that doesn't really.
Also, yeah, well, someone's highlighting the empire couldn't use aircraft
because they get shot down by the nipple gun.
The problem is that I guess he's saying the 8080s design is dumb.
They'd have a better land vehicle than that.
One that could actually account for the fact that if it was attacked from behind,
think how long an 8080 would take to actually attack something behind it.
Like, oh, fuck, give me a second.
Like an hour later.
That's why it was deployed against a stationary base target.
That's fair.
Again, again, I think that the argument is less that they were effective
and more that they were poorly designed compared to what they could have been.
But they still achieve the goal really well.
So I mostly like to say that it was a dumb decision by the empire.
I'd be like, how not in this case, aren't the 8080s essentially?
Thanks.
Like, they're supposed to take damage from the.
I think that's fair, yeah, it just means lasers don't really affect them.
You got to trip them.
Well, they shoot it after tripping it and it blows up.
I always found that weird.
Remember that?
Yeah, that's true.
I don't know if it meant that when they were tripped over,
they lose shielding or something.
It's been a few years since I actually watched the original trilogy.
We should do that.
They need movies.
I like those Star Wars movies.
Do you guys like them?
Yeah.
I like the first three.
I've heard they're pretty decent.
They're neat.
I heard that every single one after ROTJ just, you know, stop being good.
Getting better.
Star Wars.
A lot of silly title that doesn't really make sense.
If you're looking through the lens of scientific accuracy or the way things
work in the real world.
The Phantom Menace.
Two armies squaring off across from one another.
Oh my God.
He realizes nobody defends the Phantom Menace, right?
Yeah.
Also, he's implying that people defend that.
We're not looking for scientific realism.
We're just looking for a reasonable level intelligence from the people
who design and use the things in this series.
The Clockwork Gent said all terrain armored transport.
It's literally in the name what they do.
Yeah.
And there's this criticism to be made.
I think it's fine as transport, but if not a bit slow compared to other options.
Armored, certainly armored.
All terrain.
I'm not sure it works in all terrain.
Like an AT-AT.
How does an AT-AT deal with, I don't know, a mountain?
Fucking shoots it down and walks over things.
Probably.
Because it was sliced and diced.
Unless it means like all reasonable terrain.
I don't know.
What about a deep small?
Art.
Art at.
Well, I believe, funnily enough, the AT-ATs in Rogue One are called AT-AT RTs.
I believe that's what their names are.
Someone's going to correct me on that.
And they stand for like something slightly different.
But yeah, sliced and diced brothers.
Well, I've even heard the opinion bombers.
That's old technology, which is an opinion held by a lot of people
about way more in the sequel trilogy than just the resistance bombers.
And what's really interesting to me.
Wait, hang on.
I need to go back.
I'm lost on context.
Bombers are old technology.
Two arms squaring off across from one another in a giant AT-AT.
In the Civil War, the Empire Strikes Back had bombers as well.
I'm confused.
The difference there is important, though, because those were like balls of light
that were getting dropped out of the ships.
So we could assume they were projected and they shoot.
Not to mention they were far smaller and far faster.
Yeah, like they're very different.
We're fine with it being the idea is that they need to shoot below them
without heading below them.
You know what I mean?
Because it's like if they would.
Yeah.
How are these people so stupid that they just they keep bringing up
these false equivalences and they just don't even get it?
Like a Y-Wing and the Thai bombers are way more effective.
Like how is that that difficult to understand?
Especially because Rogue One came out before this.
And we see recently the Y-Wings doing stuff.
Even Rogue One is a better Star Wars movie.
Rogue One wasn't even good.
That was the one from Rogue One is this old terrain armored cargo transport.
That's act.
You even heard the opinion bombers.
That's old technology, which is an opinion held by a lot of people
about way more in the sequel trilogy than just the resistance bombers.
And what's really interesting to me is this is the exact same argument
that we heard about the prequels and the original trilogy in the late 90s and the early 2000s.
Like they're bad.
I was going to say just because people made the argument before doesn't invalidate the argument.
In fact, that might be a good argument then keep using it.
People were like why does the older stuff seem newer than the newer movies in the timeline?
It's very funny how a lot of these arguments are cyclical.
Wait, wait, hang on.
Is that an actual criticism?
Why is it that the technology in the prequel seems better than the ones in the OT?
There is an answer for that.
Being that the Republic is at its height in the prequels
and then the resistance or the rebels, sorry, are like threadbare resources in the OT.
I'm definitely a power shift.
What about the Empire?
Because they've been in demand for like 20.
What is what does the Empire have in the prequels that outclass is what they have in the OT?
Well, the Empire doesn't exist in the prequels.
Well, you know what I mean?
The Republic at the end of Revenge of the Sith.
I mean, they seem to have way better and more effective technology than
Yeah, I have.
I mean, it's definitely the Death Star sure.
Well, like what, though?
I don't remember what the name of it was like on Geonosis.
In the second one, there was those no, no, it was like the AT-AT, but it was smaller and faster.
And you couldn't exactly the little walkers with the six legs on them.
Yeah.
Oh, I think I know what you're talking about.
They're like a little spider.
I know that they had a bit.
Yeah, they had them in like Battlefront 2 or something.
The CIS had that vehicle, wasn't it?
I can't remember if that was the Republic or not.
No, no, that was definitely the Republic.
They had like AT-T.
Oh, I know what you're talking about.
Yeah, though.
Yeah.
It was like that big thing on the Geonosis map that everyone tried to get to me.
I know what you mean.
I'll post it.
This is the one.
Oh, fuck.
Yeah, it's so bad that how come everyone in the Battlefront game
tried to get it as quick as they could?
It's not bad.
I'm saying it's better.
That's the one you're talking about, right?
Oh, a lot.
Gotta pull up Discord.
Yeah, that's the one.
So like, I don't know for sure, but I'm assuming an AT-AT blast would destroy one of those.
The AT-ATs are way bigger than those.
Yeah, but you'd think that they would try to make it a little bit more like that.
Like more, like not able to be tripped up like the AT-ATs are.
Uh, yeah.
Well, this is the thing.
If the argument is the AT-ATs could be better constructed, I agree with that.
It just seems weird that they would go from that, which looks more effective as a transport.
I think I agree with that.
For its purpose, that thing seems more effective than an AT-AT.
In fact, it could, for all I know, the AT-AT and that could disable each other.
I don't fucking know.
There's only one way to find out in the arena.
What should be mentioned is that the AT-AT is a transport vehicle.
It's in the name.
Well, that isn't so like, is it completely fair to compare them?
I don't know.
I don't know why they sent AT-ATs on Hoth if they were transport vehicles primarily, though.
And how many people can you transport in an AT-AT?
Oh, well, quite a few.
I don't know.
They have a very inefficient design.
Well, I genuinely don't know, so.
Probably a decent amount.
I don't know.
Luke gets inside one of its bodies, right?
At one point, it doesn't seem that big.
Well, he like goes up to the bottom of it.
Yeah.
These are questions for the Star Wars superfans.
But people in chat are probably going to be able to answer while we're just like...
Well, if you're going to compare the real world physics of gravity,
well, then we might as well talk about the New Republic basically being demilitarized
after the Galactic Civil War.
Yeah, that's kind of weird.
You want a little bit of non-film canon.
So you would expect a lot of the same type of equipment to be used 30 years later.
Or what about the fact that in the real world,
we still fly Seahawk helicopters that are 30 years old.
Okay.
Do we have any new technology?
Just curious.
Tons.
No, no, right.
New tech.
No.
New tech is always being developed.
Like, that's just how it works.
Like, there's a...
Star Wars, like other science fiction stuff, like Dune is a slightly worse example,
but Warhammer is an excellent example of like technological stagnation.
Or you just get to a point and it kind of needs to stay where it is
for like the story and everything, you know?
And I think Star Wars...
Because the Star Wars timeline spans like thousands of years
and everyone's still using blasters and spaceships and stuff like that.
I mean, it's not like this...
Those are we still use swords, ballers.
Like, I don't think many people are using swords in combat.
Maybe...
I'll give knives for sure, but that's usually a backup weapon.
Yeah, but swords are obsolete.
Yeah, you see, we can still stab someone, but no one uses them.
I like the idea of someone going into war with a sword these days.
We have this movie called The Last Samurai,
which kind of explains why swords against guns don't exactly work very well.
Unless it's a lightsaber, in which case you can deflect.
Well, sure, but you can't do that with like a literal sword.
Yeah, you can.
If you're skilled enough, you can, Wolf.
Jesus.
What did a bullet break a sword?
I guess it would depend on the sword.
Depends on the bullet and the sword.
Yeah.
I think you actually can, though.
The problem is the timing is really tough and the accuracy.
Yeah, unless it was like in a controlled environment,
like you had a like a stationary position.
Haven't you seen anime swords better than guns?
I frequently bring my trusted kodachi into combat.
I have killed Betty and Bad on its blade.
Oh, beautiful.
All right, let's draw him back a little bit.
We still fly Seahawk helicopters that are 30 years old
and planes that are 50 plus years old and sail on ships that are even older than that.
And the United States military.
We don't use those in open combat, though.
And yet the First Order updated the Star Destroyers for some reason.
Like they changed them to the double deckers.
If you look at the actual designs, I'm not even sure why they did, but they did.
So they can slice and dice better.
Molly, you see why your point regarding laser execution weapons is weak in Star Wars?
No, it is super retarded to have an axe laser as an execution weapon on call on a ship.
I can't I don't know why I have to explain all the degrees in which that's so fucking stupid.
Why would they have that?
Why would they have two blades?
Why would it have two blades?
You'll just get a little weird neck piece that comes up.
I don't understand.
Dude, I'm waiting for them to put someone in a laser guillotine.
They have to put their head down.
It's just a laser that comes down.
But guys, it's like World War Two where they had guillotines.
I don't know.
Ah, Star Wars.
Hell of a budget.
Look, I like complaining about stuff too in Star Wars.
Sometimes arguments and complaints relative to the rest of the saga,
relative to some of the movies and moments that individual.
I'm confused.
This is an argument that you make when you don't have an argument.
But he opened this video with two counter arguments.
One being the one from the book, one being his own assumption on how it works.
And then he spends the rest of the video saying you don't need to argue this.
Yeah, it's like if you don't have an answer, then just give up.
Don't make this video.
Like if this if I was scripting this out and this is what I came up with,
I'm like, I'm not making this video because I can't actually defend the design of this bomber.
Akos Kovacs said, how about a laser rope for hagging?
Ben Mosta said World War Two had laser guillotines.
What you guys didn't know.
You heard of World's My Hog Galaxy.
Kinda goofy.
Oh, that's it?
Oh, you didn't.
Yeah, that's it.
You didn't present an argument, really.
You just sort of gave up and like, yeah, it doesn't matter.
He's like, I don't know.
Hell of a group of strange.
He doesn't make very good videos, does he?
He makes these pretty quickly.
I think this is sort of like a very low.
Someone asked him a question.
He was like, all right, the bombers.
Are they dumb?
Well, the in-house gravity for the ship would have pushed him out.
That makes sense.
And he doesn't even need to make it done.
Well, it's the thing.
Someone said laser poison.
Laser poison.
Drink this plasma hemlock.
That's how we kill our space philosopher.
Can anyone top laser poison?
That's probably the top tier.
Laser poison's really good.
Here, drink this laser.
No.
Yeah, so he does have a family.
He does have like, lots of commitments that are outside of video making.
So I think that this isn't supposed to be like a slight.
I just don't think that he would even say that he spent a huge amount of time on this.
He seems to have recorded it in one go.
And it's mainly just about whether or not the bombers make sense.
Just like, hmm.
Oh, by the way, Mueller, I want you to check out his channel.
Check his views.
Well, I know.
Because he like, 200k subscribers and his views are like 7,000.
Well, I'm shocked it's that high.
It's weird that he's made that video.
The one we just watched was a day ago he released that.
Like, that would have been a little bit out of date a year ago.
Laser ends.
Someone said laser vaccinations.
Oh, those give you laser autism.
Oh, God.
Greg is a wet laser.
Wet lasers.
And so laser mill laser mace.
Laser cyanide capsule.
Laser chairs.
Laser ad devax.
Laser brew.
Laser tits.
Laser chairs.
I like that.
So laser pants.
It's the new IKEA line laser strap on.
Sounds interesting.
So this next one's going to be weird because.
Good old Devil May Cry 5 came out and it's hated.
Nobody likes the game.
Everyone's been saying it's terrible.
It's clunky.
It was a quick release.
There's loads of microtransactions and loot boxes.
And it doesn't even boot up on launch.
You have to get a bunch of hacks.
It's the worst thing ever.
And so our good friend Tony Bloke made a review of it.
And of course, you know, he just offers his innocent opinion.
And the hate came to deal pain to him through hurt.
And the hate mongers of the toxic rude came for him.
And so he ended up taking a lot of flack for his review.
Have you seen his review at all?
App a banjo?
No.
Nope.
I haven't.
I've only heard the legends.
Yes.
So this video got taken down by Tonald himself.
Apparently he did not like the response he got from his audience.
Even though I'm pretty sure he specified.
It's just his opinion.
But apparently that did not work.
I've said before it's a shield.
The shield will not work.
If you say something like, I don't know,
Tony Stark is a woman in my opinion.
People will just be like, that doesn't.
That is not.
And it's like, it's my opinion.
It's like, that's where you get in this.
It's like, it's my opinion.
It's subjective.
It doesn't always work.
It doesn't always protect you.
Sometimes you say a thing and people will just,
they will hurt you with pain.
What was the quote?
I keep fucking it up.
They'll attack you.
They'll hurt you with pain.
They'll pain you with.
They'll inflict pain on you by hurting you.
You get to look at Tony Stark.
So it got re-uploaded or at least found.
And we're going to check it out.
So we want to make it known.
He did get rid of this.
He wanted to.
So I guess I'm not sure if that means that he disagrees with it now
or that he just didn't want to.
You have it be a lightning rod for hate.
Oh, well, you know, tonal.
He always ends up disagreeing with something he said.
So let's be nice.
All right.
10 minutes.
Treats a lot shorter than I thought.
Treat our lord tonal with respect.
And yeah, so the way this will work is
the new rags and wolf will just enjoy the argumentation
while Appa Bend is going to be our fact checker.
Okay.
It's going to be wonderfully interesting.
Well, here we go.
Here we go.
Here we go, guys.
Tonal's low.
Yeah, we're prepared now.
Well, after the mixed reactions of DMC in 2013,
Devil May Cry is back with its fifth mainline entry,
releasing on the 8th of March.
I've had a chance to beat the game this past week.
And this is my review.
I'm sorry.
This means a lot to me because I do this in the April Fool's video.
Oh, yeah, tomorrow's April Fool.
Oh, yes, it's coming.
And I just get down the cut to just a clip of the game.
It's always so like, what?
Oh, oh, okay.
It's always so like dramatic too.
Like you're not expecting it.
Just boom.
So let's say, let's say spoiler.
I'm so sorry.
What was, hold up, hold up.
Zoom in.
Is that auto mode that I saw right there on the top right?
You need to put that in your pocket, Appa Bend.
You're going to need that at a moment.
Okay.
So many thoughts.
I've had a chance to beat the game this past week.
And this is my review.
Is it awesome?
Hold on.
Before we go on further, I've never played Devil May Cry.
So I know nothing about it.
What is auto mode?
All right.
So in Devil May Cry, there are two difficulties.
There's the human mode.
There's the devil hunter mode.
Now you can have an assist mode where you can just press,
basically press one button and it will do the combos for you.
Whereas in the game, normally you have to pull off a combination
of buttons to help.
So assist mode is just one button.
So hold on.
It's literally just taking the combos and making it.
Oh, you don't have to do the combos.
The game just does it for you.
That's retarded.
As a lot of people refer to it, it's generalist mode.
Wonderful.
So yeah, you know, it might change your experience.
The campaign to cheese the blood.
Why is it?
Spoiler free.
A great and terrible.
Devil May Cry is a franchise that was an issue.
Written by Tone Loke.
Twitter dot com slash downward thrust.
Come on.
Make sure you follow written by Tone Loke.
He's fucking huffing his farts with this shit.
Such an awesome game, though.
Just accept that your name is tonaled from now on.
Come on.
You can do it.
I'm waiting for that to pop up in a top comment on one of his videos.
I really want someone to say, like, hey, don't love the video.
Really appreciate your work.
Yeah, for him to, like, press the love button on it.
May Cry is a franchise that was initially supposed to be Resident Evil 4,
a game that came out nearly 15 years ago.
But somewhere in development, it took a life of its own.
It became one of Capcom's most adored and quirky franchises.
In Devil May Cry 5, players control a cast of three characters.
Nero from Devil May Cry 4.
V, a new character.
And of course, series veteran Dante.
Devil May Cry has always been well known for its over-the-top gameplay.
Cringy one-liners in a good way.
And it's extremely detailed hair.
Who brought the marshmallows?
Because I'm bringing the fire.
Five is no exception.
Throwing us into a story of familiar demon hunting beset by nonstop action.
Cutscenes in extremely linear story sections.
Tonaled.
That's a really weird...
Really, really...
His editing is so strange.
Cut.
Really, really abrupt cut.
I'm still triggered with the autumn.
What'd you say, Riggs?
Has he never watched a video himself?
I don't think he's seen it.
Like, he doesn't know what they are.
He's just, like, an alien pretending to make a human video or something.
So it's kind of like Tommy Wiseau.
It's a movie that, you know...
It seems like it's made by someone that is human,
but has a vague understanding of what a movie is supposed to be.
Yeah.
It's not like that.
I just love the right of it to cut the...
Who... I think...
I could've sworn it might have been Joseph Anderson.
I'm not sure who it was I watched who started doing intercutting of, like, the clips.
And then they stopped doing it because they realized it was dumb.
It was a creator I was following who was doing it,
and I just remember it just, like, makes me laugh.
The Tonal just decided to commit, and he's doing it even more.
Hmm.
I don't know what that gameplay is supposed to highlight.
You know what? Hold on.
He said story sections.
He said story sections and then went on to show just random gameplay that has no story at all.
We gotta break down the sentences because Tonal is special in this way.
I need to listen to this, like, because I'm wondering if that clip was for evidence.
For demon hunting beset by non-stop action.
Cutscenes in extremely linear story sections.
Non-stop action.
Cutscenes in extremely...
Is that supposed to be action cutscenes?
Or are they separations?
Is he supposed to be...
There are separations.
I never really know.
There are separations.
There are no action cutscenes or quick time events.
But what if he means action cutscenes by a cutscene where action takes place?
There... well, there are actions in the cutscenes, but you...
You know what I mean, right?
Like, there's just a battle in a cutscene.
Well, there is, but there isn't an action that you as a player do in the cutscene.
But this is Tonal look.
Like, just listen to the way he delivers the sentence and we can figure this out.
I'm sure we can crack this.
Five is no exception, throwing us into a story of familiar demon hunting beset by non-stop action.
Cutscenes in extremely linear story sections.
How bizarre of a statement that is.
Wait, wait, wait. Non-stop action cutscenes.
In extremely linear fashion.
Do you know what I mean?
Non-stop action cutscenes.
My brain's turn is spaghetti trying to figure this sentence out.
What have you guys got?
Non-stop action cutscenes.
It's the same thing he does in all of his videos and in that tie raid that we read earlier.
He doesn't understand, like, English the way that anyone else understands it.
But then also that this is...
Why didn't he play a cutscene here as well?
Why did he go with gameplay?
What did it make sense?
Yeah, I know.
That's the thing.
It's like he doesn't understand, like, how to speak in any cogent way.
Sorry, I'm so...
I'm actually invested in understanding that.
Hunting beset by non-stop action.
Cutscenes in extremely linear...
So it's supposed to be non-stop action cutscenes and extreme blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's what the sentence is supposed to be, but he's delivered it in such a bizarre way.
This is classic tonaled.
I get it. I get it now.
All right.
He always tricks me with this stuff.
He keeps me on my toes.
Near story sections.
I'm still triggered with the ultimatum.
The noise changes are weird.
The noise changes.
It's like I'm just talking and then...
Okay, all right.
That's gameplay.
I can hear it now.
Tell me about it.
Oh, Baller, is there an option to, like, play this video on 0.5 speed?
So that I can...
Probably, yeah.
Oh, yes, there is.
We'll play it at 0.75, I guess.
I don't want to go too far.
I don't know how this does for syncing issues.
This will be interesting.
All right, put it at 0.5 now.
Let's see.
Okay.
Fuck.
The format here is pretty simple.
The player is following me.
He sounds like he's got the tizzle.
He's so sleepy.
Sleepy total.
The format here is pretty simple.
The player is following and completes 15 to 20 minute missions with high quality cutscenes provided
before and after each with the boss battle upon the finale.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Roll back.
All right, this is what he was actually saying.
Boss battle upon the finale.
Rinse and repeat.
The best part about...
Roll back.
Roll back way before that.
Okay.
The format here is pretty simple.
Players follow and complete 15 to 20 minute missions with high quality cutscenes provided
before and after each with the boss battle upon the finale.
Rinse and repeat.
The best part about Devil May Cry 5 that will go a long way to make fans happy is that it never
takes itself too seriously.
Often dialogue is extremely cheesy, overly confident, or just...
Do you hear that?
He's supposed to say often dialogue can be, but he said often dialogue can be very...
It's a running sentence.
It's like a power he has.
It's amazing.
The way he emphasizes words is just...
Yeah, he just fucks it over.
Total superpower is the lack of glamour in his sentences.
Too seriously.
Total look is the Pablo Picasso of Oratory.
Yes.
Yes to all of that.
A long way to make fans happy is that it never takes itself too seriously.
Often dialogue is extremely cheesy, overly confident, or just plain weird.
Cool trick.
Hey.
What's that ironic?
The ironic...
Why is Kylo Ren in this move?
Yeah, that's that same.
Cutscenes.
Wait, that's actually him?
No.
No, no, no, that's not Edo Driver, but people call him...
Okay.
Devil May Cry 5's story is incredibly fun to watch play out in the game's various cutscenes.
It's incredibly fun to watch play out in...
See that?
He fucked it up because he's reading his own work and he thinks it's incredibly fun to watch.
Okay.
So he reads...
Let's watch that in zero, in half speed again.
That needs a slow motion.
Do this to full total.
No, not that part.
Fuck it.
Just let him go.
Oh, trash.
Hey.
Do you do parties?
While Aerosaur's more enthusiastic in half speed...
Is it actually worse?
Yes, I do as a metro effect.
Devil May Cry 5's story is incredibly fun to watch play...
Oh, God.
Incredibly fun to watch play out.
Play out.
Devil May Cry 5 actually works.
Devil May Cry 5's story is incredibly fun to watch play out in the game's various cutscenes.
And all the characters...
All the play out?
That inflection upwards that he takes.
What's with the play out?
It is actually a superpower.
He nails it.
Oh, my God.
This boy's a total down roller coaster.
Slodal bloke.
Downward syndrome right here.
I will put him back to normal speed.
Don't worry, Tonal, we got you back, bud.
The ironic part is it actually works.
Devil May Cry 5's story is incredibly fun to watch play out in the game's various cutscenes.
And all the characters are extremely well done.
Especially Niko, this lunatic hillbilly sidekick who drives this bus.
Excuse me, sidekick.
That ain't right.
Sidekick.
I don't recall Niko being a sidekick.
A scientist, yes, but a sidekick.
Right.
Can we get that line in slow motion?
Yes.
Yes, please.
That line, just especially with the long pregnant pauses, would be perfect.
Oh, sidekick.
My bad.
I misheard.
It's incredibly fun to watch play out in the game's various cutscenes.
And all the characters are extremely well done.
Especially Niko, this lunatic, especially Niko, hillbilly sidekick who drives this bus.
She's absolutely hilarious.
It sounds like he's so much more entertaining in slow motion.
I kind of want to call you Niko's sidekick.
A narrative-er to Devil May Cry 5.
He almost sounded excited there.
Yeah, he like went up.
He went up.
He was into this.
He went up.
The narrative-er to Devil May Cry 5 is pretty solid.
Moves forward at a good pace, and the missions are what you'd expect from the franchise.
Okay, can you roll back for a bit?
It's a little hard for me to, when he's talking slow, it's kind of hard for me to stick with
the whole thought because it takes so long to get through it.
Yeah, we'll go back to that.
They're short, they're action-packed, and there's even a seamless co-op option for those
connected to the internet during certain missions.
Though, I was playing on a review copy.
You guys heard of the internet?
You all heard of the internet?
Nice one, Tonal.
He gets review copies.
Good stuff.
There's even a seamless co-op option for those connected to the internet during certain missions.
Though, I was playing on a review copy, so I didn't get the chance to experience this.
Wait, wait, wait.
Can you roll back, roll back for a bit?
What did he say?
A seamless co-op?
Did he just say a seamless co-op?
He said a seamless co-op option.
I'm assuming he means that you can drop in, drop out or something.
There isn't a way for you, well, there is a way for you to know this other player,
but there isn't a way for you to literally play the game and beat the monsters together.
It's co-op.
It's co-op in the same way you invading someone's Twitch is co-op.
Wait, the player...
What is the co-op exactly then?
Okay, so let me explain you.
So, you see his player, the main character, he's playing right there.
So, usually in that area where you see the containers,
that's where the other character V is playing when the other player pops in.
So, when you were crushing monsters here,
the other character V that was played by another player,
he will pop in right on the container area.
There's no interaction between players?
No, there's no interaction between player.
Oh, they're just like in the background also fighting.
Yeah, they're just in the background fighting.
Do they earn anything or do they help out the other player in any way?
Do they get them things or...
There is...
Well, there is one mission, but not all missions have co-op.
Some level...
So, there is some co-op in some way, right?
Some level in co-op, but not in all missions.
Well, if I was playing a co-op, if I was reviewing a co-op game
and it said, hey, we have co-op, but you don't actually co-operate with the other players?
I would make a...
No.
That...
I'd make a pretty big note of that.
Wait, I thought you said that there was, it was like,
is there any time where you can fight alongside a player against them?
Yes, but not all of them, not all the time.
In fairness, as long as he didn't say all missions or anything,
that would still mean he's accurate, I think.
Expect from the franchise.
They're fun, they're short, they're action-packed,
and there's even a seamless co-op option for those connected to the internet during certain missions.
I think that deserves some qualification,
because when people say, seamless co-op, all right, I'll play with my friends.
You did say during certain missions, but it's weird that...
Yeah, I don't know why you wouldn't talk a bit more about that.
I guess it's because you said he didn't get to play it, so...
Yeah, it needs to be clarified, because the co-op in Devil May Cry 5 is very, it's very loose.
It's very loosely defined.
Oh, I was...
Two missions have co-op, apparently, okay.
Playing on a review copy, so I didn't get the chance to experience this very much.
Though I had a great time for the most part of the campaign,
Devil May Cry 5 does something...
Why even have it?
Well, like, co-op in general, if there's only two missions.
Yeah, that's what I said, like, co-op, the co-op is very loosely defined.
Oh, right.
If it's Devil May Cry 5.
Telling someone it's co-op is like, you really need to say more,
because that's not really a great amount of information.
Yeah, two out of 20 missions are co-op.
Yeah, two out of 20 is not really co-op.
Very difficult to notice.
I agree with that statement.
Great time for the most part of the campaign.
Devil May Cry 5 does something I don't like, particularly in games,
which is interrupt you quite a bit during gameplay,
especially within the first few hours.
Kinda stop me.
Whatever.
That's all I do.
Oh, you annoyed the level.
Oh, it's just a key hunting mission.
It's just a key hunting mission, like, you've seen that in...
In a lot of ways, the level design of Devil May Cry...
Oh, wait, let's...
Devil May Cry 5 is very much like...
It's just key hunting, and then fighting monsters, and then that's it.
Okay, yeah, I was just gonna say, let's see how he qualifies it.
I think he's about to.
The game just loves to pause itself and throw up a tutorial box with every opportunity it gets,
be it introducing a new mechanic, a new item,
and why would you not want a tool tip when you get a new mechanic?
I would like that, please.
That's good.
How can he bitch about too many tool tips, and he's playing on...
Roll back, roll back, roll back for a bit, roll back for a bit.
I'm missing a lot of context.
Loves to pause itself and throw up a tutorial box with every opportunity it gets,
be it introducing a new mechanic, a new item, a new ability, a new system.
I don't know why you wouldn't want that for a new item or a new system.
That's fine.
Why...
Okay, I have no idea, but I would be glad.
You can tilt tutorials off, and you can skip...
Apparently you can skip...
Someone said you can skip all of that.
I don't know if they mean the video and the cutscene and the tool tip.
You can skip the cutscene where, you know,
you see that if you're back, there's something that's blocking off the way.
You can skip that cutscene.
Someone brought up a good point.
Did he just say that a non-stop action game interrupts him?
I think he did say it's the part he doesn't like,
so kind of...
You can't call it non-stop action then.
I just want to know why is he complaining about tutorials when he has easy mode turned on
that does the work for him?
He's playing easy mode.
He doesn't play easy mode early on in the game.
He plays auto mode like late when he's playing as Dante.
He's playing auto because he couldn't figure out the combos.
You can tell when he turned on auto.
That's interesting.
Yeah, I can tell where he turned on auto.
Unless not all of this is his gameplay.
Oh yeah, that's actually possible with a good old tonaled.
System you can interact with.
It even pauses the game after most fights or when you interact with certain terrain features
via kind of a segue transition cutscene,
showing you that the area is now clear and directing you which way to go.
You can skip that.
You can skip it?
Yeah, you can skip that.
Yeah, then I don't know.
He says that's kind of strange.
This isn't new.
Okay.
Yeah, keep playing.
Keep playing.
This is something that increasingly got on my nerves as time.
Increasingly?
Increasingly.
That's the old, old up, old up, old up, old up, old up.
Arguably.
Increasingly.
Tax returns.
Only got on my nerves as time went on.
Thankfully though, you can skip past them.
Excuse me.
Did he say thankfully you can skip that?
He actually acknowledges you can skip past them.
What's the problem?
Is it the fact that they exist?
That increased.
Like this is in review.
This is what I would call like a token, like point against it.
Like if you never say anything bad, like you have to,
it almost feels like, well, I got to say something bad about it.
Oh, I'm pretty sure he is going to say mean things about this game.
Inconsequential tiny little thing.
Don't you mean it?
Why bring it out?
I'm just kidding.
It's like it annoys me, but I can skip them whenever I want.
I'm like, okay.
Good to know.
I guess.
I'm okay.
Let's see if he qualifies the fact that it's time went on like it's a good.
Thankfully though, you can skip past them.
But considering the player doesn't know if the interruption is one of these segue moments
or an actual cutscene, it's often dangerous to skip them
because you don't want to skip out on stuff.
Oh, so he's saying that you don't want to skip them in case the cutscenes is at his point.
He's saying don't skip cutscenes because they might have
important information like no fucking shit.
Well, he's so the ones that's like, hey, player, go over here next.
He's saying he wants to be able to skip those ones and he can,
but he needs to make sure first that they're not important.
Do you know what I mean?
It's complaint.
I know what he's saying.
Yeah, it's like don't skip cutscenes or you will miss the relevant information contained
within the cutscene.
My advice to him would be those cutscenes interrupt the gameplay.
The second the game's wasting your time, skip the cutscene.
If you feel it's actually new information, don't skip it.
Simple as that.
Yeah.
I've never actually.
I usually don't.
Against having choice.
It's very strange.
Games like do whatever you want.
And he's like, no.
I usually don't skip a cutscene unless I played the game to death already.
And I'm just playing it like for fun, like mindlessly.
Otherwise, like I kind of want to like listen to the story.
This is a really pointless mood and pointless point in general.
Like these things take up much time.
Pointless point.
What a what a redundancy.
The ones he's complaining about seem to be like between three and five seconds at most.
Like it's not that bad.
If that's important to the story.
Skip them.
Oh, okay.
I guess we're done with the gameplay, the upgrades, the good and bad.
Sorry.
What was the first part talking again?
All right.
We were on 324.
Let's remember that.
And I want to know what the first part was talking about.
All right.
Oh, fuck.
We was seconds in.
So the campaign is the blood.
What's the blood blood?
I don't remember him talking about the blood.
I don't remember.
We came to cheese the blood.
What a strange way to separate your parts.
The campaign cheese blood.
Okay.
Part two.
Whatever the fuck that was.
The good, bad gameplay combat.
What exactly did you say about the campaign?
Other than it was, um, it was quirky.
It exists.
He said there were 15 levels that were about 20 minutes and they have a, he didn't even say how
long.
Well, 15 missions, about 20 minutes each with a boss at the end.
I was let down.
He didn't even talk about real cheese.
All right.
Well, Gorgonzola can be found on every map.
Let's, let's have a look at this.
So gameplay upgrades, the good and bad.
So the good and bad of those things or the good and bad of the whole thing.
The good and bad.
Oh, the whole thing.
Yeah.
Well, let's see.
Why was this part exactly?
Maybe sections.
Good music, dude.
Double Make Cry 5 is almost exclusively a linear experience and that's not a bad thing.
And players should expect no freedom at all during play throughs.
Players should expect no freedom at all during play throughs.
Is that a fair statement?
I'm sorry.
I need to roll back.
Roll back because that auto mode is, I'm still triggered by the auto.
How do you, oh, it has auto in the top right.
Oh yeah.
I was, I was just interested by the fact that Appa Ben could tell where in the game he was
at the time sort of thing.
So you can figure out how much he's using.
It's very easy.
In the first half you play as Nero, in the second half you play as Dante.
He's playing as Dante now.
Oh, sweet.
Okay.
We can figure out a timeline.
Yeah.
I feel like he must have gotten some of the non-auto gameplay from somewhere else at least.
Because why would he just put it on auto later?
Wouldn't he have enough time to get a handle of the controls?
It's because Dante's gameplay is a lot harder than Nero's.
Dante used a lot of weapons and he has like four stands, if you can see on the top left of it.
He has four different sorts of modes.
You can say the gunslinger, et cetera, et cetera.
Well, let's just say that, to put it simply, Dante's gameplay is a lot more
complicating than Nero's.
That's why it was an auto.
He just couldn't manage to make it.
He needs to get good.
He just couldn't get good, yeah.
Yeah, couldn't get good.
But it says that he's a badass.
A badass.
All right, let me draw it back a bit.
Into the story.
Devil May Cry 5 is almost exclusively a linear experience, and that's not a bad thing.
And players should expect no freedom at all during playthroughs.
There's something exciting to me about playing a linear game these days,
as everything today seems like it's been.
The fucking poor.
I know he was breathing.
It's just funny.
He's like.
His eye.
No freedom at all during playthroughs.
There's something exciting to me about playing a linear game these days,
as everything today seems like it's been.
He was siving.
You see, total, this is when you when you read.
You redo the he's halfway through the line like you can't.
Like that's when you'd be like, all right, I got to dial it back.
And then you got to take a deep breath before you go into the line.
And then you do the line again.
Yeah, just like just a couple of sentences at a time.
Or at the very least, if you're too lazy to do that, just snip out the breath part.
You couldn't do that either.
Well, if recording, if he actually got a good example,
I think that's what he usually well, he might usually do that.
So if he had cut the breath out, it would have been a really awkward like, hang on.
If we can get it played again, just fucking stop lagging.
Pretty played for you guys, isn't it?
He about playing a linear game these days as everything today seems like.
So have been like, is everything today would have been.
That's what it would have sounded like if he'd cut the breath.
So leaving it in actually makes the sentence understandable from our
perspectives.
We're like, oh, you took a breath and then he fucked up the pronunciation.
We should have done.
I think it would have sounded fine without the breath.
Well, it would never mind.
He uses auto in earlier parts.
Oh boy.
So yeah.
Can you plot it?
Is it like 30% into the game?
He does it.
That's very early.
That's very early in the game.
Because I'd be like, do you like, of course not.
The whole point is for me to play the game.
Do we remember what tonal's steam ID was?
Why?
I want to see if he's actually played the game at all.
He must have privated it by now because he can't let that shit get out.
You know?
That writer or maybe he's playing in consoles.
Could be.
Yeah, I don't know.
But if he's playing on the consoles, we could find like his PSN ID or Xbox ID or whatever.
I think we'd have to get someone who knows all that stuff.
I don't think he's stupid enough to do that ever again.
The whole not actually play a game thing.
I don't know.
I mean, the fact that yeah, the fact that he did it once
kind of shows that he's not against not playing a game and then making a review on.
That's the guy who complains about getting hate.
The guy literally lies about fucking stuff he's reviewing.
Like, come on.
I mean, what am I doing?
Come on, hate mongers of the toxic brood.
Find his theme account.
He has everything today.
Seems like it's been converted to an open world template, but not here.
Devil May Cry 5's levels are to the point.
Easy to navigate.
Painless.
Painless.
When you're not.
Painless.
Bombarded by interruptions.
Like you are in open world games.
Come on.
Getting bombarded by interruptions.
Most-
Wait, didn't he say that you kept getting interrupted in the campaign?
By the cutscenes?
Well, he said bombarded by interruptions.
We said not-
He's saying that you don't get bombarded by interruptions
as if to imply you do in open world games?
Because this is linear.
No, he-
But he says you do.
Wait, let's-
No, here, let me roll it back.
Let me scoot it back.
Don't dox him.
That's not what I meant.
Don't dox him.
Obviously not.
Don't do that.
No, I mean, find his theme.
Don't find his address.
Template.
But not here.
Yeah, don't do that.
I don't care about his address.
I don't want anything bad to happen to him.
Because then he would stop making videos.
And I don't want that to happen because these are funny.
Devil May Cry 5's levels are to the point.
Easy to navigate.
Painless.
Painless when you're not getting-
It's painless when you're not getting bombarded by interruptions.
Like, it's painless when it's not.
Well, at least-
That's what he's saying.
At least it's consistent with the previous comment about the interruptions.
Eh.
Time.
It's arenas for enemies that spawn in or corridors in close quarters for navigation.
Someone called him Ton Ton.
What?
Ouch.
Someone called him Ton Ton.
Oh, just slow Ton Ton.
That spawn in or corridors in close quarters for navigation.
The game does have some mild platforming and some traversal mechanics, but they are-
Do you say traversal mechanics?
I'm fine with that.
Eh, I'm fine with that too.
It's traversal mechanics.
Yeah, traversal.
It does work.
Yeah, doors are designed for the traversal to walls.
Hmm, I don't think I've ever used that that way, but okay.
First of all, yeah.
Barely here.
Personally, I'm under the school of thought that we should try to review and analyze games based off what they try to do and not what we want them to do.
Okay.
Thus, as someone who's not-
What they try to do, not what they-
Like, every-
We should judge, we should-
Judge gameplays of what they try to do, not what they want them to do.
Should we do it in slow motion?
Slow motion.
0.5 speed, come on.
Yeah.
Thanks, but they're barely here.
Personally, I'm under the school of thought that we should try to review and analyze games based off what they try to do and not what we want them to do.
This galaxy-
Do you disagree with that?
I disagree with that.
Absolutely, I disagree with that.
You should judge a game off of what it does, not what it's trying to do.
Like, well, it's trying to be good.
Yeah, it's trying to be good, but it's not.
I'm confused of what he means by that.
It's trying to do this, yeah, and it fails.
Exactly.
Like-
Judge a game by what it tries to do, not what we want it to do.
Does that mean that the criteria changes based on what the game was trying to achieve in the first place?
Like, that's how you judge it, is that what you're saying?
I don't fucking know, I'm curious.
I do want to see what he's about to say next.
Yeah, let's see if he qualifies.
Based off what they try to do and not what we want them to do.
Thus, as someone who's not familiar with past Devil May Cry games and expected larger levels in-
Oh, whoa.
Wait, wait, what did you expect on Devil May Cry?
What did you actually expect on Devil May Cry?
You expected it to be something if you're not familiar with entry.
Like, I'm confused, I'm really confused.
Roll back, roll back, roll back.
I'm not familiar with past Devil May Cry games and expected larger levels and more freedom,
more openness.
I quickly-
You're not familiar with the previous Devil May Cry games and yet you expect that freedom
and openness based on what?
I guess just games in general.
I don't know what else you based that on.
Based on what?
Devil May Cry games have always been pretty linear.
I don't-
Well, he's certainly been planning on this.
He's basing this off of something.
I don't know why.
It's something.
Yeah, something, I guess.
I think that's the reason I'm going to say though is he's like,
I had to change my mind on that quickly because I didn't want to judge it by what I wanted, I guess.
More freedom, more openness.
I quickly realized that Devil May Cry is all about two things.
Killing bad dudes and watching-
Yeah, how else are you going to judge it?
Like a freaking open game?
It's a weird freaking point.
Oh my god.
It is pretty a strange point.
But, god judge a thing by what it's trying to do, Apo Jesus.
Devil May Cry is all about two things.
Killing bad dudes and watching quirky cutscenes and that's how I'm going to judge it.
Combat in Devil May Cry 5 is an absolute blast at-
Yeah, especially when you play on auto, it feels great.
Oh well.
I already know what he's, he's one of his comments about this.
I'm waiting for you to enjoy it, Apo Jesus.
It's coming.
What is going on?
It's really cool.
Really makes the flow of combat go effortless.
It's a damn-
Makes the flow of combat go effortless.
It feels good because you play on auto.
Dude, auto's skilled in a way.
Why can't it play all the time?
It keeps de-syncing for me.
Punching feels great, especially with Nero's ability to pull enemies to him.
It's really cool.
Really makes the flow of combat go effortless.
It's a dance of brutality and it feels good.
And the game ranks you for your-
Avic.
To groups of enemies with his-
What a very forced accent there.
What very-
Just what a very strange inflection.
Reek absolute havoc.
Very strange.
It's getting a bit laggy for me on my end.
He also has a great toolkit allowing him to reek absolute havoc.
Oh God, that was weird.
Yeah.
That's a very strange effect.
Absolute havoc.
How can you say something that should be-
I mean, how do you say that feels so bored?
He went to 0.5 speed naturally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Absolute havoc.
I'm going to write it out.
It's like he's very tired when he's recording this.
Yeah.
Sounds like it.
I'll know what that means.
I'm going to put dashes between it when I one day have to pronounce this.
That'll make sense.
Slice and damage.
Perfect.
Perfect.
Geez.
To groups of enemies with his weapon swapping mechanic and raw DPS.
He's very fun to play too.
Raw DPS.
Oh geez, we're in noisy cuts.
He's not got the bouncing right for one.
Like it's so jarring.
Yeah, level your audio mate.
Jesus.
V on the other hand,
it just cuts back and he continues to-
Kick me.
I'm not so sure about.
With V, it seems like it's all about mashing buttons.
As you repeatedly have to slam buttons for your bird,
cat, and big giant golem dude friend all at the same time.
While locking on and while executing with another.
Bayouin, Bayouin, I know you're in the chat.
You know what to do.
You know what to do.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna grab that.
I'm gonna zoom in and get the controller away.
Draw bug eyed tonal for me, please.
Why is he wearing a hood?
What screen?
What is that frozen out for you guys?
For me, it's funny as hell.
It looks like he's fapping with his controller.
You look so angry.
Come on, Bayouin.
I know you can do it.
What were you thinking?
Human, human put self in video.
Yes, human be more human.
The problem is that for the whole video,
he's dull and boring and it's like he's half asleep and he doesn't give a shit.
And then this comes out of nowhere.
I love that he makes that face even when he's playing one auto.
I'm pissed that I can't do more on auto.
What's it, Bayouin?
Draw bug eyed tonals.
And he's wearing a hood.
Why are you wearing a hood indoors while you're sitting down playing video games?
What is the request?
Oh, well, because is it based on the screen I've got right now or is it something else?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Bug eyed angry tonal.
What should he be loving?
Do you want it to be a controller or something else?
What?
These damn cutscenes.
A little bit here.
Cuning your knees with another.
That should be in slow motion.
We're out of sync.
You're gonna have to screenshot if you want to send it to Bayouin.
Okay, hold on.
No, and I'm good.
Bayouin's house is flooding.
That sounds bad.
Okay.
Oh, Cadby Gamer just highlighted that the controller he's holding is off.
Is that true?
The light looks like it's on today.
Why does he- he has a- he has a light on facing his face.
To the right.
Scroll back, scroll back, scroll back.
I need to see that.
Uh, do you want to do-
I need to see the controller.
Oh, okay.
We'll just, uh-
On slow motion too.
That'll be good.
Tonal.
We're trying to see a controller.
It looks like it's on.
Giant golem dude friend all at the same time while locking on
and while executing enemies with another.
I think it's off.
Yeah, that's off.
It's kind of hard to tell.
Would it be a blue light we should expect, right?
Or is it a red light?
This looks more like a-
This looks more like a skit in an actual-
Oh no, I know.
It's just fine though.
Yeah, I think it's a skit.
Yeah.
We know- we know why it's off.
What is this light on the right hand side?
We know why it's off.
It's a skit, but still.
Someone said Tonal does a fake gamer girl confirmed.
Oh wait, so-
Oh no.
Wait, Tonal has to care for another living thing.
How are you?
Dog gets skit.
By the way, by the way, uh, you can- you can turn it off
if you're on the PS4.
Or dim the lights, at least.
Maybe we don't- we didn't actually notice-
Oh, you know what?
There you go.
Maybe the controller was just dimmed.
It's dimmed.
Yeah.
Tonal equals fake gamer girl.
Look at the poor keyboard on the left.
Why does he have a keyboard on the floor?
Who is that?
Who's the dog in the background?
I don't know.
Do you mean the prisoner?
He's clearly holding a dog hostage in his house.
Ouch.
This picture's kind of funny that the screen I'm going to-
Poor, poor dog.
He looks so lifeless.
He's dead and lifeless.
Yeah, that looks like the face.
That looks like his speaking face.
Like whenever he talks to people where-
The picture he has in a lot of his, like, thumbnails
that he started doing, he stopped doing it,
but he just has the weirdest fucking picture of himself.
Isn't it, like, almost exactly the picture
that Beowyn drew that I'm using right now?
I think that, yeah, it might be.
Let me have a look.
Yeah, it's this weird, smirky, smile, neutral kind of expression.
It's like he didn't decide what expression he wanted to show,
so he just did all of them at once.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure he stopped doing it.
I'm trying to- I'm going to try and find an example.
Oh, while it's on my mind, actually,
Jake Armorsmith, who did the picture from earlier,
discord me that picture without the watermark on it.
I really, really like it.
Oh, yeah, I found it.
There we go.
This one, you can see it on my screen,
but he took the weirdest photo of himself to put on a video.
Um, yeah, if you can't see it.
Uh, he's just like, and then you skip over to the next video
called the industry is the same picture.
Why did you keep using that one?
It's not going to be like his, his, his thumbnail, uh,
like template or something that he, his overlay that he always
put on his videos and his fucking face.
I mean, gamers aren't happy Microsoft.
I think he still ain't happy Microsoft.
There should be a comma.
I like that his chin just weirdly doesn't grow any hair on it.
So it looks like some horrible tumor growing out of his face.
All right, let's try and watch this sequence without pausing.
Because as you repeatedly have to slam, bird, cat, and big giant
golem dude friend all at the same time while locking on and while executing
enemies with another most of your attacks.
Look at that.
You know what?
I can see why you deleted the video now.
Do you think this was like the first time he's ever shown like any expression
is it too late to ask to do like a super Saiyan vision of totaled with the goofy face.
Wait, yeah.
Screenshot this and then I don't, I haven't seen Baywood in the chat.
I wonder if he left.
They owe an easy way saying super Saiyan bug eyed angry total.
Most of your attacks have no cooldown.
So everything is kind of like unlimited Spanish.
I cannot believe how much mashing went down when I played this guy and I had to check.
Hold back, hold back, roll back, roll back for a bit.
What?
He said something about cooldowns that I just noticed.
Most of your attacks have no cooldowns.
So everything is kind of like unlimited Spanish.
I don't, I don't recall any of the characters having any cooldowns at all.
Wait, wait, let me think.
Um, who has a cooldown?
Um, I can't think of one.
All the characters have all the attacks.
Why V in particular, it's the point of criticism.
That's weird.
Outside of devil trigger abilities bound to a meter.
Yeah, that's it.
Let's see if he says any additional comments then.
Attacks have no cooldown.
So everything is kind of like unlimited Spanish.
I could not believe how much mashing went down when I played this guy and I damn near
had to check myself into the hospital for carpal tunnel.
Wait, what achievement was that?
Not too shabby.
No, no, no, no.
Is it a steam achievement or is it a steam achievement?
So he's playing on PC.
Yes, we can confirm that.
Yes, that or the person who got this footage.
It is perform a stylish rank s combo.
Well, there you go.
Mashing went down when I played this guy and I damn near had to check myself into
the hospital for carpal tunnel.
Interesting concept, but it just doesn't translate into fun gameplay.
Doesn't translate into fun gameplay.
Okay.
Sadly, you are required to play either Nero or V for specific missions for about half
the game, at which points you have the ability thereafter to select who you want to,
depending on the mission.
And frankly, I much prefer the merciless slaughtering of Nero and Dante.
Oh, Jesus.
Everyone's house is like literally flooding like a pipe burst.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Oh, wow.
That's horrible.
Well, that's bad.
I hope he's okay.
Wow.
Press F Jesus Christ.
No, don't press F.
Everyone pray or pray for bail and hashtag pray for bail.
And yeah, if we use when we don't actually care.
Hopefully he knows how to swim.
Hopefully knows how to swim.
You see, now they're all pressing F.
Got some prayers in there.
Look what you did.
Yay.
Called the pipe with the charge.
Is it F for flood?
F for flood.
Oof.
Oh, two different.
Pray for Bowen.
Well, they had to be inclusive for the yellow people.
Yep.
The yellows.
Oh, wait.
When we get into part three of this video?
I'm excited to depending on the mission.
And frankly, I much preferred the merciless slaughtering of Nero and Dante.
After completing a mission, you'll be able to spend red orbs.
You've collected on upgrades and Niko's pimped out van.
Upgrades in Devil May Cry 5 come in all varieties of forms, depending on the character to each
of the three characters has a forms.
I was about to say they come in all variety.
One there.
Actually, I'm going to pick.
Yeah, that's a good one.
Mine varieties of forms.
Beautiful.
Sweets of abilities unique to them.
Although there is some crossover among Nero and Dante's toolkit like dashes,
launchers, et cetera.
The upgrades, though, they do feel good, et cetera, et cetera.
Uh, use a Nazi grammar is unique to them.
Although there is some crossover among Nero and Dante's toolkit like dashes,
launchers, et cetera.
The upgrades, though, they do feel good, allowing you to choose how you want to build your
character and who you want to focus on.
You can upgrade a new skills, weapons, boost health, increase mobility.
He did it again.
Okay, you could upgrade skills, weapons, and it's like, no, no, no, no,
you're supposed to reflect differently.
Total.
You got to sound like a human who you want to focus on.
You can upgrade a new skills, weapons, boost health, increase mobility,
weapons, boost health, and increase mobility.
That's what it sounds like.
He said, because he didn't reflect properly.
I didn't know weapons boost health.
Maybe they do.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Do they, do the weapons boost your health?
Focus.
Oh, God.
It's on.
You can upgrade with a rhino.
Fine.
Everyone is just a boost pipe.
I mean, I hope it's easily fixed, obviously.
Skills, weapons, boost health, increase mobility,
purchase new abilities for certain members as well.
Nero, for example, has devil breakers, which are a prosthetic arm attachments
that give him various special abilities.
Picking and choosing which abilities to acquire.
It's a real choice here, and it's entirely possible.
This picking and choosing different.
I mean, I can let that go.
A lot of people say that.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Which abilities to acquire.
It's a real choice here, and it's entirely possible to save up
all your orbs for some of the game's more extravagant abilities.
I like the choice.
I like the freedom.
It's a good system.
What struck me immediately about Devil May Cry 5 is that the attention.
Character models and epic cinematography.
You'll spend a lot of time in Niko's van, upgrading your character,
watching cutscenes.
It's extremely detailed and incredibly welcoming to the eye.
All the voice acting is great, though, as I said earlier,
the cheese factor is at an all-time high.
If you like it, you like it.
If you don't, then you won't.
Getting the band back together, huh?
Technically speaking, the graphics look amazing during cutscenes.
It's got that very Capcom flavor.
Technically speaking, they look amazing.
Technically speaking, they look amazing.
It's a very interesting statement.
Epic man cutscenes.
What does he mean by they have a Capcom look to them?
Someone pointed out something kind of interesting.
Steve achievements, PlayStation controller in the skit,
and an Xbox controller in the tryout area.
Well, to be fair, he could use a renaissance.
He could use a PS4 controller.
That's true.
He could use it.
He could use a PS4 controller for his PC.
It is just very strange how inconsistent it all is.
He's a renaissance man wolf.
We're on to you.
He does it all.
Tonaled.
Getting the band back together, huh?
Technically speaking, the graphics look amazing during cutscenes.
Yeah, so to clarify, it's weird to say technically it looks amazing.
It's like, you just mean it looks amazing.
If you want to talk technically about the graphics,
you probably mentioned resolution or actual textures, right?
I mean, it's almost like saying objectively, subjectively, they look amazing.
Like what?
It's got that very Capcom flavor to it.
Thanks to what does that mean?
What's the Capcom flavor?
You know, this cap tastes like bubble gum.
Please speaking, the graphics look amazing during cutscenes.
It's got that very Capcom flavor to it.
Thanks to a bevy of special effects and extremely high polygon count models.
Everything has a purpose and compositions of that.
That's a weird point.
All right.
I guess you must have.
Yeah, you just high, high polygons, I guess.
All right.
Say it looks nice, man.
To say it looks really good.
The hair looks good.
The textures are great.
People move realistically.
Capcom tastes like a weird grape.
Yeah.
So again, to clarify, so like if you're going to make a technical statement versus a
it looks amazing is what I'm getting at.
It's weird to put those two together.
Because, you know, like if you said the game was upscaled, that's like a technical
critical point.
You wouldn't then you wouldn't say technically it looks bad to me.
You'd be like, why did you just throw technically in there?
That's weird.
Devil May Cry 5 are just beautiful.
The game in action also looks great, but slightly less impressive next to the narrative pieces.
The visuals in Devil May Cry 5 are good.
Don't get me wrong, though.
The colors of the game tend to stay in the ballpark of brown, gray, red, basically for
the entire the inflection.
Brown, gray, red.
You think he's going down and he tricks you.
Brown, gray, red.
I'm still here.
I'm still here.
I'm still here.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh, yeah.
He's like that fucking parent in Citizen Kane.
Dog, green, red.
That's really asleep.
If I were good, don't get me wrong, though.
The colors of the game tend to stay in the ballpark of brown, gray, red, basically for
the entire game.
I wish there was more variety, to be honest.
He really wanted to trust that.
Red.
There was lots of red on the screen at the time, too suitable.
Red.
There's also red.
Basically for the entire game.
I wish there was more variety, to be honest, to the overall experience in terms of color
and scale and locale, as mostly you'll be trekking through city streets, underground
environments, and of course, places of demonic hell.
While the underworld elements.
Places of demonic hell.
Places of demonic hell.
Places of demonic hell.
It's the kind of thing where you have to repeat the back and then you go, oh yeah,
that is tismic.
Places of red rum.
Places of demonic hell.
I just say hell.
It's interesting.
He's like, you know, building streets and hell.
I'm like, oh, this seems to be a decent chunk of things in there.
I don't know.
Someone said, as opposed to lovely hell.
Yeah.
Hail and locale, as mostly you'll be trekking through city streets, underground environments,
and of course, he said city streets when he was in a building.
That's strange.
Places of demonic hell.
Cities, streets, or streets, I guess.
While the underworld elements do look fantastic, much like the rest of the game,
the scale at which they are presented, though, is quite narrow.
Levels are small, very self-contained, and some of them repeat textures or even bosses.
Though this is for narrative purposes, it still happens.
Many levels are-
Wait, what?
You already meant to say-
It still happens.
Though it's for narrative purposes, it still happens.
That's how you deliver that line.
Listen to the way you deliver.
It still happens.
So confusing.
The scale at which they are presented, though, is quite narrow.
Levels are small, very self-contained, and some of them repeat textures or even bosses.
Though this is for narrative purposes, it still happens.
Many levels are also-
Yeah, that's really weird.
The way he transitions between the last sentence and dough, that's really weird.
I think inflection's the key word.
He keeps fucking it up.
Like, he keeps highlighting the wrong parts of sentence.
Okay, we need to go back and play it at 0.5.
Okay.
Yes, yes, yes.
Why narrow?
Levels are small, very self-contained, and some of them repeat textures or even bosses.
Though this is for narrative purposes, it still happens.
It's still a new sentence.
It still happens.
And then it's the new sentence.
You're like, what?
Oh, it's fascinating.
And actually, I want to be a totaled scholar.
It's like he becomes enhanced when he's at 0.5 speed.
Like, he realized what he's trying to do and failing at completely.
Though this is for narrative purposes, it still happens.
Many levels are also quite outstanding with artificial barriers of blockage,
invisible walls, which require you to find items-
Artificial Barriers.
Dude, artificial barriers of blockage.
They're not natural barriers.
Artificial barriers of blockage.
That's amazing.
Hard official barriers.
I missed that.
I missed that group.
Play that, please.
Yeah, well, I might be wrong.
Let's roll it back.
Yeah, go back.
It still happens.
Many levels are also quite boxed in with artificial barriers of blockage.
Okay, thanks for confirming what barriers are.
Barriers of blockage.
I hate those barriers of blockage.
They're worse than those barriers of acid.
Dude, areas are boxed in with artificial barriers of blockage.
I love that statement.
That's amazing.
Barriers of blockage.
The official barriers of blockage.
How do you say that?
How do you say that and not think to yourself, there's something wrong here.
I need to know that.
He wrote that.
He wrote that out.
And then he went back after he wrote it.
He thought of it.
First he thought of it.
Then he wrote it down and then he spoke it.
And at none of those three stages did he say,
that sounds fucking retarded.
I'm not putting this.
I'm not showing this on stream, but Wolf, you did mention it.
I feel like I have to show you because you've requested this, but I'm not.
I'm not going to.
Oh, no.
Did someone actually on a?
No.
Oh, no.
That's so much worse than I could have ever.
Oh, God.
That's what he was.
The sword.
He's going to have it.
It looks like he's a cherry tomato.
Oh, my God.
Sorry.
I can't believe someone.
Don't show it that way.
You can find it on my Twitter.
We can't show it.
Everyone's saying you can't you have to go.
You can find not safe from work.
The stream will literally be taken down.
If you go on my Twitter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just go to my Twitter.
It's like one of the recent posts.
You'll know what isn't it in isn't it in the description?
Your Twitter or just read it.
All are not retweeted.
Okay.
What's the link so I can spam it in the chat for?
Oh, no, don't link to porn.
Do not link to porn on YouTube.
Oh, right.
Yeah, be right.
Anyway, let's listen to that incredible sentence one more time.
Repeat textures or even bosses.
Though this is for narrative purposes.
It still happens.
Many levels are also quite boxed in.
Visible walls, which require you to find items to bypass them,
which I guess is to be expected for a Devil May Cry game.
But it does make.
How would you know?
How would you know?
You didn't play.
They're not familiar with.
He didn't play any of them, did they?
Yeah.
Well, you know, there's certain things that he knows about Devil May Cry.
He doesn't know that it isn't open world,
but he knows that there's going to be artificial barriers of blockage.
Of course, Devil May Cry has artificial barriers of blockage.
A couple of people saying I'll find it on my Twitter.
Two people have liked it.
Could I link the profile that uploaded it?
Would that be evil?
I don't know.
No, that's not as evil, I guess.
You should be like, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it.
Like in the search bar, you can search for people who've posted at Mola.
Like, that's what I'm referring to.
You won't find it on my feed.
You'll find it on people who are acting me.
I'm pretty sure you can do that on Twitter.
But honestly, I'm not giving you guys any more clues than that.
Okay, that's a leap.
Bypass them, which I guess is to be expected for a Devil May Cry game,
but it does make the game feel a little bit boxy.
Overall, I was impressed with the world in terms of playability yet.
I thought there could be a little bit more variety,
but the gameplay definitely more than makes up for it.
The good news is you're playing on auto,
so of course you're expecting more variety.
Jesus.
How can you ask for variety when you play on auto?
That doesn't make sense.
Yeah, if you're playing on auto, you just play one button.
That game, but it does make the game feel a little bit boxy.
Overall, I was impressed with the world in terms of playability yet.
I thought there could be a little bit more variety,
but the gameplay definitely more than makes up for it.
The good news is I experienced absolutely no problems,
no frame rate issues, no crashing, no bugs.
In the PC version of the game, it ran basically like a dream,
and you can see my specs in the pinned comment.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another-
I do want to see his specs.
Well, we can't see that anymore, we don't know.
Yeah, we can't see that anymore, I know, but-
I'm so sorry.
I'm sure he has high-end specs, I don't know why he wouldn't-
You can see my specs in the pinned comment.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices,
huge branching dialogue never seems to exist.
Devil May Cry 5 tosses all of that to the-
I need to hear that again.
What an odd sentence.
That, yeah.
I'm confused.
I was a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices,
huge branching dialogue never seems fucking hell-tonaled.
Like-
Wow, every single element of those have existed in old games.
Not only that, but the inflection again threw me off completely.
Oh, the sentence doesn't make sense.
Yeah.
God damn, do we need to write this one out?
I'm late.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices, huge branching dialogue never-
This is a clear choice.
This is a clear thing.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That sentence makes sense.
Write that.
Write that.
Player choice is huge branching dialogue.
Maybe we need to play it in slow-mo again.
Yeah, yeah.
Please do it.
Please do.
We'll play it in slow-mo and I'll try and write it out as well.
I'm gonna play this in-
Yeah, point five should be enough.
In the pinned comment.
Okay, don't laugh, don't laugh.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices, huge branching dialogue never-
He's already- give me a second.
I'm trying to write that.
Okay, I've got it.
I've got it.
I've got it.
That is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices, huge branching dialogue never seems to exist.
Devil May Cry 5 tosses all that stuff.
Okay, okay.
I've got it.
I've got it written down.
He says, this is what he says.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choice, is huge branching dialogue never seems to exist.
I think I have a bank of what he was actually trying to say was choices,
but it did sound like he said choice.
Yeah, he choices.
I think he thinks player choices.
But he still fucked it up.
One in which open-world games, player choices, huge branching dialogue- Christ.
No, no, no, I think he does say player choice is.
Let me explain.
Okay.
He says, a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choice is huge branching dialogue never seems to exist.
Oh my god, I think you're right.
I think that's what he's saying.
Yeah, that could be.
It could be.
Let's say it again.
Okay.
All right.
Ran.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choice is huge branching dialogue never seems to exist.
So put a comma after huge.
Player choice is huge, comma, branching dialogue never seems to- we shouldn't have to do this.
Is it one in which, comma, open-world games, semi-colon, player choice is huge,
branching dialogue never seems to exist.
Is that what it's going for?
There wouldn't be a comma after which, in which open-world games, comma, player choice is huge,
comma, branching dialogue never seems to exist.
We're starting from a fundamentally flawed premise, which is that this sentence is retarded.
I'm so confused.
But we're trying to kind of- I think we've got it here.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choice is huge, branching dialogue never seems to exist.
There's a really weird slip of sentence of player choice.
Yeah.
So if going in, understanding that that's what he's trying to say, let's listen to how he says it.
The good news is, I experienced absolutely no problems, no frame rate issues, no crashing,
no bugs.
In the PC version of the game, it ran basically like a dream and you can see my specs in the pinned
comment.
Devil May Cry 5 is a throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choice is huge, branching dialogue never seems to exist.
He just goes up and down with different ways.
Wow.
I just-
He doesn't understand basic English.
It's an open-world game.
It's an open-world game.
Player choices and huge branching dialogue are things that don't exist.
That's what he wants to say.
Shrug.
That's what he wants to achieve with that sentence.
It's just the way he splits it up makes it so weird to understand.
Last time I saw him-
Throwback action game from another generation, it seems.
One in which open-world games, player choices, huge branching dialogue never-
Yeah, I think the big fuck up is that he says player choice is instead of player choice is.
Like the gap fucks everything up.
Yeah.
...never seems to exist.
Devil May Cry 5 tosses all of that to the side while giving players a style of game that
mostly has been forgotten in time.
And for the most part, it does a great job.
The enemy design, especially the bosses, are amazing and detailed to a disturbingly
demonic level.
Moment-to-moment comboing is almost always satisfying,
and there's a great amount of mechanical feedback that makes the combat feel really nice.
Really nice.
It makes it feel-
Okay.
Really nice.
Did you guys ever have it in school where they'd-
if ever you used nice to describe something, they'd be like,
you have to change that, never use nice?
Yeah.
They'd be like, nice is the lazy person's way of being like, it's a thing.
It's nice.
A lot of people get offended when you describe their thing as nice,
because they'll just be like, are you-
Do you not care?
But it's okay, Tonal.
It's like-
I forgive you.
Yeah, it's like, fill in a blank word.
You guys are putting more effort in figuring out only one sentence that you put-
You should hire eFap as his writing team.
We'll get on it.
We'll nail it.
A great amount of mechanical feedback that makes the combat feel really nice.
You can even hone your craft in the game's training and skill testing arena called The Void.
And the music is just downright great, which is mostly bumping metal tunes that perfectly
harmonize into the game's demonic setting.
But like most games, it also has flaws.
There's too many interruptions.
The game-
Whoa.
The interruptions is still freaking strange.
What a strange audio change.
Do you hear that?
He sounds really different.
Yeah, I'll also play it again.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, I'll play it again.
There's too many interrupt-
Okay, wait.
I gotta go feel the back.
Okay, okay, good.
Roll back.
Games demonic setting.
But like most games, it also has flaws.
There's too many interruptions.
The game is often extremely button-mashy.
It sounds like he added it in post.
I think so, yeah.
I think he added it in post.
Sorry, let's make sure we hear him now for reals.
Most games, it also has flaws.
There's too many interruptions.
The gameplay is often extremely button-mashy and sometimes repetitive.
The level design, for the most part, is predictable and uninspired.
And the game-
See, I just gotta highlight the fact that he says he's criticized for being button-mashy
and he's playing on auto, which is the big problem everyone nowadays.
Well, to be fair, he showed V's gameplay, which does a lot of button-mashy.
Oh yeah, I think the criticism was that he got the impression in addition.
I mean, the fact is he took this down, so I'm assuming he didn't realize-
What's wrong with button-mashing, though?
Because if it's like only one, if it's only like one button, it doesn't-
Yeah, boring.
It's just keep this one button.
Is it just one button?
Yeah.
Petitive.
But then again, he's playing on auto, too, so-
The level design, for the most part, is predictable and uninspired.
And the game is quite short, but outside of those qualms,
I definitely enjoyed my time with it from a moment-to-moment basis.
Devil May Cry 5-
About 11 hours.
That's pretty good.
11 hours for a single-player game is pretty decent.
I needed a single day, but yeah.
Normal people won't.
Yeah.
You're a nerd.
Time with it from a moment-to-moment basis.
Devil May Cry 5 will cost you 60 bucks at launch,
and it ran me a total playtime of about 12 to 13 hours.
You can extend that length by about five hours if you search out secret missions,
but in terms of replayability, there's not too much here.
I wasn't blown away with-
A lot of people are very upset by that comment.
Anything to say, AppaBand?
Replayability?
About-
What?
About the replayability.
What about?
I don't know.
No replayability?
Well, you said little replayability, I think.
Little replayability?
Well, if you don't want to play the hard difficulty, yeah, there isn't one.
Well, I suppose there is the DLC.
Was it the palace DLC?
The bloody palace DLC?
That's going to be much better.
Wouldn't replayability just mean like how often you want to keep playing it again?
Like how much you liked it?
Well, a lot of people will refer-
Like, so replayability is like in Dark Souls,
it'd be like, oh, I can fight all of the enemies but boosted health bars,
but with now my new kit, that's great for replayability.
Some people might argue that's boring.
It's different with every game, right?
But yeah, imagine that if you can choose different difficulties,
then there's a bit of replayability there for sure.
Free!
I don't know.
Yeah, I just-
There's a lot of new difficulty modes in Devil May Cry.
Like, there's one where-
Yeah, there is one where you can-
I bet-
Sorry, what?
I was just going to say quickly that-
Is it what he's probably referencing is like there wasn't-
Since it's so linear, there's no choices you can make that'll change-
You know what, let's roll back.
Let's roll back.
Let's roll back for a bit.
12 to 13 hours.
You can extend that length by about five hours if you search out secret missions,
but in terms of replayability, there's not too much here.
I wasn't blown away with this game, but I generally had-
I mean, that's the point.
Okay, so in terms of replayability, there's not too much here.
No, that's not right.
There's a lot of replayability,
especially if you want to get all the S ranks in all the levels,
and if you play to other difficulties.
There are so many other difficulties.
I think it was that Heaven or Hell mode,
where you basically one-hit kill all the enemies,
but you also get one-hit kill.
And then there's also Hell in Hell mode,
where enemy one-hit kills you, but you need to defeat them normally.
So yeah, there's a lot of difficulties.
New difficulties, loads of skills you can't unlock on a first playthrough,
branching character paths, secret missions, no replayability.
Okay, yeah, sounds like he was unaware of these things,
because there's no way he would have mentioned all of those.
Loads of skills you can- I'm interested in that one.
So there's skills that you can unlock on future playthroughs.
Is that because of a lack of like currency or-
Yes, lack of currency.
There's a new taunt- there's a taunt mode that costs like-
I forgot it costs like 100,000 orbs or something,
but it costs much, basically.
That's cool.
Yeah, you kind of fucked that up.
A good time.
The narrative was good once it got going.
I loved the characters.
It was charming.
The dialogue was superb and the gameplay was solid.
When the game stopped and erupted- Fans go ahead and buy it on the fencers.
Wait for a small sale.
Uh, I'd say- I'd say buy it anyway.
What a terrible way to type that out.
What a- fans go ahead and buy it on the fencers, wait for-
On the fencers, wait for a small sale.
If you read that as one sentence, and buy it on the fencers.
I thought it was one sentence.
It wasn't like a period or a dash or a comma or anything.
Oh, it's really not bad.
Fans go ahead and buy it on the fencers.
Like it should be- it should be fans comma, go ahead and buy it, period.
On the fencers, comma, wait for a small sale, period.
I would put dashes on the fencers.
On dash, the dash fencers.
Yeah, that would work too.
And I would put like little dots or something, or little dashes
before each of the two lines too.
It's like fans, like dash, space, fans.
Well, hey, at least he said small sale.
Equal or semicolon or colon.
Wait for a small sale.
Dash space, on dash, the dash fencers.
What about a large sale?
He's like, no.
Like like 10% off or 20%, what with small sale.
And even then your fans and on the fencers.
What a strange way to-
What about the-
On the fencers.
Wouldn't there be one more category by definition of those two categories?
Like, do you mean DMC fans, or fans of action games, or fans of fan,
like specifically Devil May Cry fans, or fans of the genre?
Buy it and sit on a fence.
I don't remember.
We've covered a couple of his videos.
I don't remember him saying the vid.
Have we covered his reviews before?
Does he usually do this?
I think he wants to do this essays.
Remember he did this at the end of the Grand Theft Auto V video,
and he asked that like chick-tracked style question about if it failed or not.
It sounds like he-
Have you accepted Jesus in your heart?
It sounds like he's using terrible grammar to tell you to buy a stolen copy from a fence.
I can-
Buy it on my-
Buy it on the fencers.
I recommend this game to fans who know that they love this franchise.
So there it is, guys.
There's my very high-level review of-
My high-level review of Jesus.
This is my very high-level intellectual gaming community galaxy group.
Did he really say that?
I gotta- I gotta listen to that again.
Guys, listen for the joke.
Is it a joke?
I need to know this.
I can recommend this game to fans who know that they love this franchise.
So there it is, guys.
There's my very high-level review of Devil May Cry 5.
Wow.
It's not even 11 minutes long.
Oh my god.
I love he says his high-level review when the game plays.
How can I actually-
How can I in 2020 say this is my high-level review and it'll be a quote?
This is my high-level review.
Holy shit.
Every week I make a review of a game for exclusively games.
Are they high-level?
And it's 10 to 15 minutes long.
And I actually went a little bit over my Seven Days to Die review that he put out yesterday.
I would never consider a high-level review that's not even 11 minutes long.
High-level.
Like, let me put it this way.
If you watch this review, this game is all about combat.
What have you learned about the combat from this review?
I haven't learned much about the game.
Like, legitimate question.
Really, think about it for just a few moments.
After this video that we've watched, what have you learned about the combat
from this game that focuses almost entirely on combat?
Well, there are upgrades.
You know, I knew nothing about Devil May Cry going in and still nothing coming out of this video.
I don't understand.
Well, this is a high-level review.
It's a high-level review.
He uses auto-mode and he says it's a high-level review.
Oh, high-level.
What we know, he didn't even mention Devil Triggers.
What's that?
He did say the word at one point.
It's the super mode, essentially.
Oh, maybe he did.
So he said, like, your attacks don't have cooldowns.
Like, the only reason that we mentioned it is because someone in chat,
it was Daspotion in chat, said,
they have a cooldown that you have to earn.
But you don't know anything about the actual combat in this game, really.
Especially when you're playing on auto, you don't know the combat, how the combat works.
You just tap one button and then you complain about button mashing and then you play on auto.
Anyway, it is six o'clock and I do have a dinner I need to go to.
So I will need to be departing.
So in other words, your owner is going to feed you.
Do you want to see the video?
Someone's going to feed me.
And if they want to own me later, we'll see where the night leads it.
Do you want to try to make it to the end?
Because there's only half a minute or do you want to?
Yeah, sure. Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
All right.
40 seconds.
But as always, guys, let me know what you think down below in the comment section.
And if you wait a second, please give me a like.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
What's the achievement on the bottom right here?
That's not a steam achievement, is it a steam achievement?
No, that's a steam.
No, that's a steam achievement.
That's in steam big picture mode.
Big picture.
Oh, OK.
Oh, OK.
OK, so some because the other achievement was a regular steam one.
So it.
Oh, my God.
He uses three different controllers and uses two different versions of steam.
Yeah, boy.
Know what you think down below in the comment section.
And if you would, please give me a like if you enjoyed the video.
I try to approach this video as objectively as I could
as a non-DMC fan.
So I was hoping this would be a helpful video to those who might not be
well, not really like I was.
But OK.
You guys have a lovely day.
I don't think this was helpful after his fans was very unhelpful video.
Uh, yeah, it was the newest video.
Another cool video.
All right.
I'm like, I would put that in mind as like a joke and it wouldn't be serious.
Like another cool video.
All of my videos are super cool.
Well, I'm toenled.
Um, there's just a few.
If I hurry, I can let you see these memes as well.
Rags has been just a few while we play.
OK, I'll be quick.
Memes.
You're used to this app event.
Do you meme streams?
You know about this insanity.
Um, this is these.
These are all just a mix of different kinds of odd styles and stuff.
Do you guys know this meme?
Oh, yeah.
Deep down hurting people hurts them more than those.
They are hurting people.
It hurts them more than it hurts those.
That's a good name.
That's a good one.
I like that.
That's the first.
Hive Fleet Brood.
Brood is the most toxic, tyrannid Hive Fleet to invade the Star Wars fandom.
It is a swarm of verbal terrorists bringing logical destruction to countless video essays.
Their insatiable hunger for terrible arguments drive the intellectual gaming hive mind to
devour all straw men.
Unless a solution is found soon, Brood may yet prove the end of the TLJ defenders.
I love that alien mauler photo.
Damn.
That looked good.
The laser guillotine.
Hey, Quinta gets to be a giant in that scenario.
He's a massive toxic Brood, verbal terrorists.
And then the icing on the cake.
Come on.
Discord load that one.
Nice.
I like it.
I like the fact that it's a costume.
I like the fact that it looks so natural.
It blends so well.
It blends so well.
I love it.
But yeah, Rags, you may depart my good suit.
Yeah, I will.
I'll be back later tonight.
I don't know if you'll be up, but I will see you guys later.
Always a pleasure to be a guest on eFap.
No, I'll be back.
I'll be back.
Have an old loc video.
Classic talk.
Yes.
Um, been fun, Mr. Rags.
Brood.
See ya.
Yeah, we'll, um, we'll be.
So glad he's gone.
How could you do this?
Oh, I just.
Well, Rag is, uh, I'm going to do this.
This will be, we do the super chats and then, um, we'll probably close out
because, uh, we've gone over the three hour mark.
I'm pretty sure that's what everybody, everybody.
Oh, really?
Really?
That's, that's, that's fucking quick.
I don't, right?
Low energy.
Well, I've heard people hate him when we go for long.
They way prefer super short ones.
So we'll be fine.
All right.
All right.
I'm pretty sure they definitely say that by Raggos.
Yeah, don't worry.
It usually takes us over an hour to get through super chats.
So, uh, like it's not over yet.
Uh, how does one get a massive card?
Um, Rags did tell me that he was the only one that was giving those out,
but apparently in the meme, I got one from Wolf.
So I guess he gives them out too.
Um, a lot of people were asking if you had to vote twice in order to get a massive card.
Wolf, have you got the, uh, the bylaws on there?
I don't know.
I, I don't know.
I guess I, I only a half massive.
So, you know, I'm going to have to confirm that as time goes on.
Comic variable fools video tomorrow.
More like, can you say how long it is?
20 minutes.
And, uh, I'm excited for everyone to see it because it's so tismic.
It's just so good.
It's going to be great.
Wolf, real quick.
What is the best Metro game?
Um, um, objectively, I'd say, I don't know.
Cause they all got flaws, but they all got really good ones.
I think Metro Exodus is the best, but Metro 2033 story.
I mean, I might have a bias because it's my favorite book, but yeah, there we go.
Fair enough.
I wish Rags was able to have seen this, but, uh, he's gone.
It's too late.
Damn.
Give me a second.
I'll show you.
Remember that, uh, that thing we were talking about the guy who had
the dream, uh, like Efap related dream.
Oh yeah.
Someone drew out his dream.
Oh my God.
That's the way he dropped the coin.
I just love the idea that the three of us are the discord icons.
That's beautiful.
Um, that's amazing.
Yeah.
I'll make sure to send that to rag is, um, all hail the toxic brood this
weekend, stupid and Efap in one day.
I guess you are in luck.
Apple bend.
What is the government hiding from us?
You did mention that I regret that, uh, thoughts of style of celebration.
I've never even really understood what style of celebration is other than,
isn't it just like, is it just like a star wars because it says, because
it says made the fourth.
Well, or is it that way?
They're not even running it on the 4th of May this time around.
I'm pretty sure it's like this month.
Um, so I'm guessing.
Oh wow.
Just hit April fools for me technically five minutes ago.
I could totally at least get to help here.
Bro, they just found out yesterday.
You can do an uninterrupted 24 hour stream.
I, I talked to geeks and gamers after the stream we did with him and he said is
still limited or at least it was at the beginning of this year.
So how recently did that happen?
If anyone can find an article, um, send it to me on Twitter that like says it and
it's recent and we can, you know, that'll be awesome.
I just, I don't know if that's the thing yet.
The stream started the moment I woke up.
A surprise to be sure, but a welcome one.
Excellent.
Watching your Twitter and some of the JPH stuff.
Apparently no one likes you slash thinks your petty also literally does
mean xylophone can confirm.
I mean, towards the end of the conversation, people were much warmer to me than they
were to him.
A lot of people were like confused as to how he justifies defining something isn't
a joke definitively, like not even to be interpreted.
He was really awkward from him this time watching live.
Give the good stuff.
Cool.
Cool.
Appa P five sucked, but P three and P four are amazing.
Oh, persona.
Uh, I would, I wouldn't say persona five is the best.
So kind of
P five.
I don't know anything about it.
So I've never played them.
Yeah.
You said love you though.
So very friendly.
Okay.
That's all great to see you on here again.
Appa Ben love your channel and love having you on my favorite stream.
Long live the toxic brood.
Yeah.
You're a member of the toxic brood.
No, sorry about that.
It happens.
Do more drunk streams with a monk on Twitch.
I mean, we did one recently with, I did one on metal streams.
So you got to, you got to get into all their streams and you'll, you'll find the drunkenness.
Um, glad to see Appa Ben back.
He is the entire reason I found this stream and by extension, the other three of you.
Yay.
Oh, how about that?
Hey, come on.
More.
Let even ER got his captain model video out.
Mine is coming.
It's going to be a bit different from his, but it's coming.
The captain model was really good, right?
Appa Ben, it was really good.
So I need to explain in detail how good it was and how well it fit in with the MCU and
how excited I am to see her interact with my fellow Avengers.
You know, that's going to be so cool.
I cannot wait.
If you could only say one thing for the rest of your life, like Groot, what would you say?
Um, it's difficult.
I must fab.
That's three things.
You can't do that.
Oh wait, accounts the same as Groot.
Yeah.
I must fab.
I don't think I don't know if people are going to be around you if that's all you can say.
Maybe I'll just say hello there over and over again.
Yeah, I suppose that works.
Or would you choose Wolf?
Wait, what?
If you can only say one thing for the rest of your life, similar to I am Groot, what would it be?
Um, Jesus Christ, I don't know.
That's pretty good.
That's pretty good.
That's pretty good.
Every single response.
Jesus Christ, I don't know.
Yeah, we'll go with that, I guess.
So I bought Sekiro on Friday and instead of being a normal person and playing the game,
I've spent the last three days fighting the boss you're supposed to lose to and I finally just beat him.
Yay.
Excellent work, James.
I'm playing that as soon as I'm done with my Captain Marvel video.
It's happening.
Rags, I kept getting caught in my zipper.
Thoughts?
I'm sure you'd approve of that, if anything.
But just get it.
No, trust me, you can't knock it till you try it.
I don't want to try it.
This sounds extremely painful.
Hey, in all seriousness, are you guys worried about Article 13 and it recently been approved?
I mean, Wolf won't be affected by it.
You will, Willer.
I will.
It depends on how it's implemented, what's going to happen.
Yes, we're very concerned.
Yeah.
Don't exactly know what's going to happen.
So we're concerned, but we're still waiting for how it actually implements it.
Cautiously pessimistic.
There you go.
Causing to teach the others how to get it consistent.
Oh, yeah, we did respond to that one.
Yeah, we did respond to that.
I finished Game of Thrones season six.
Is season seven that bad?
Yeah.
Watch season seven.
You may as well, you know, like, get it done.
It's just the...
If you're this far into it, you may as well stick around.
You watch season five.
So, yeah, watch season seven.
Season five is embarrassing.
It's just bad.
It's a fucking stupid sand snake.
Can't stay for long as I need sleep.
Just wanted to pop in and throw some rhino milk at you
and say hi to Rag and look at women.
Oh, thank you, Dr. Martin Luther Pepe.
Make sure to run it on your dedicated GPU.
For some reason, it defaulted to my Intel integrated graphics.
Yeah, that was the first thing everyone assumed it was wrong on my end.
I was like, nope.
And then the second solution was unplug monitors.
And then the third solution was unplug monitors
and plug them back in and then boot the game immediately.
That didn't work either.
And then they said disable turbo boost on Intel,
which for some reason worked,
which is embarrassing and from software should be ashamed in a good way.
Yeah, that's weird.
That's weird.
I'm working out of the box.
Yep.
Is Efap genuine or Kfabe?
Um, I don't think you could fake all the stuff we have on here.
Like some of it is too ridiculous and random to have been written.
Nah, I can certainly say for sure.
That's on a low.
I mean, like if someone said, like, you know, where the hell,
like if you watch Kadel tomorrow, well, in,
I want to release in 16 hours from now.
So if you watch that without the context of Efap,
you might be like, how did you come up with some of these lines?
Like they're too stupid,
but also they sort of sound like things some people might say.
We're like, yeah, that's, that's how we get them.
I mean, you see it all for yourself.
I'm assuming you're not, you know,
taking everything these people say straight face that we cover.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's a crazy shit.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fair enough.
Yeah, fair enough.
Alone we're like a single twig, but as the toxic broom,
we form a mighty faggot.
Yes.
And that's the thing.
In that context, you mean a bundle of sticks
and that is completely genuine and fair.
And you're allowed to use the word that way
unless the word police come after you.
Best time catching this live.
Thanks for all the content.
No idea what you talk about,
but I'd love to see Metacron sometime.
There's no way he'd come on here.
No.
And Rags would not like that.
No.
Rags would be very unhappy.
Yeah.
Everyone actually just got on a debate with Joseph Anderson on Twitter,
stemming from his convo with Mauler.
I hope it went well.
He is a fun man.
Mauler has a swearing license.
How fucking British, of course.
Hope you have Louis LaVey.
Louis LaVey, Louis LaVoe.
I have no idea which one of those is correct, but yes.
Hope you have him on.
Love is black.
Pilled honest approach to Western gaming,
which I agree with.
Will be fun to see him and Rags clash.
Sure.
Oh, he was, he was potentially going to come on.
He, he, he was clashing with Rags at one part, at one part.
I was on.
Hard with.
Wait, what?
Beautiful.
You're, you're breaking up.
Oh, sorry.
He was arguing so much with Rags in one stream that he did.
He was arguing so much.
No, it was years ago.
Oh, Jesus.
It was years ago.
It was years ago.
He was arguing so much with Rags.
About, uh, I think it was about Mass Effect Andromeda.
They were arguing of whether or not Mass Effect Andromeda is
their own Bioware's next game is going to be good.
And they were arguing so much.
Like I'm just sitting in there, like waiting until, you know,
I'm just going to find a stream because it's.
Who was arguing that it was going to be good?
Uh, no, I wouldn't say he would, I wouldn't say that Rags was arguing that it's good.
He was saying something along the lines of he's, he's hopeful.
He's still basically, basically more optimistic while.
Oh, how'd that turn out for him?
Well, pretty bad.
Let's just say.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I, I like, uh, my Mass Effect Andromeda video was like the first one I made to break
100 K.
So I know how it turned out.
Oh, I got, I got it.
Link over here.
This is, this is beautiful.
Yeah, it was that, it was that stream.
It was like the end parts.
It was like the end parts of the stream is this boy.
They were arguing really bad in there.
I will check that out.
It'll be interesting to see what, what the context is.
Um, imagine all the studios trying to insert political BS in 40 K.
The fandom would go ballistic.
Just wait, just wait.
They'll get to you too.
They got to everything else.
It ends with the, it ended with Jay saying I'd understand his perspective
about subjectivity.
If I gave it enough consideration, he was pretty condescending.
It would, it ended with Jay saying I'd understand his perspective about subjectivity.
If I gave enough consideration, he's referring to me, I guess.
And I love that he said he was pretty condescending.
It's like, yeah, that's Joseph Anderson.
The man who said he's listened to more than anyone is in their normal lives.
That's just as a reminder, Joseph Anderson literally looks like exactly the same as
tale from, uh, Harry Potter.
You look out at the halfway.
He said, we're tail.
This sounded like you said, okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Joseph Anderson looks exactly the same as wormtail from Harry Potter.
If you, if you were wondering.
Wait, a couple of people have mentioned some things about Jim and then someone said,
apparently he enjoys your approach to media analysis.
Is this real or are you fucking with me chat?
I wouldn't know.
He does what he does what?
Who cares that apparently he enjoys your approach to media analysis.
Like, is that, are they talking about Jim?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Big fan, but one question.
Objectivity goes by a standard, right?
You guys say when talking about movies that you go by the standard of good one
to writing fireman correctly.
Could you specify what this exactly means?
Does it go by what the majority thinks or something else?
I mean, so the idea of like progression,
like a story progresses and the things, as long as it's able to progress, then nothing.
So like, uh, it would, it would be a standard created by the craft itself.
It wouldn't, this is just an example.
It wouldn't include, uh, a personal preference.
If the idea is that you have ABCDE, but then as soon as you counter something
that prevents the progression or counters it,
which would just be the contradictions we usually highlight in a lot of.
Objective criticism.
It's just things that go counter to trying to make it what it is, if that makes some sense.
So you could be like, well, isn't the definition of story subjective?
And I'd be like, again, uh, I don't know that you couldn't make that argument
for literally everything in the universe.
So it's really about worldview at that point, but hopefully that answers it in a,
as a sort of example, rags triggering wolf about halo reach had me dying.
I love you too.
Arguing so much as priceless, priceless and never change you guys.
Well, if you had him in that argument, you annihilated him in that argument.
Do you guys watch Godzilla two beautiful trailer right now?
It's so good.
I have no interest in it whatsoever.
I, I think I'm going to go see it, but I'm not too like obsessed with going to see it.
You're going to go see it.
Oh, there you go.
We're all just like there.
Uh, sadly I can't watch live, but we'll certainly get back to this tomorrow.
Have fun guys.
By the way, Wolf bought your, bought your buck and am three chapters.
Oh, book.
And I'm three chapters in enjoying it thus far.
Coolio.
I know this is random, but can we use rags as a measurement for film quality example?
TLJ was terrible.
I'd give it maybe half a rag for a sense of scale.
One rag, one rag is Ted Willems.
One Willem is a thousand quintons.
Makes sense to me.
Uh, yeah, I get to catch a live efap.
Hey, more.
Did you hear about the video?
Media criticism is garbage and here's why by manga common.
I know it exists.
I watched a bit of it and I'm a little bit confused about the structure.
I think he's going to, because he says he's going to talk about my video, I think,
but then not until part two.
He talks a bit about, um, Sarah Z's video on the one we covered actually on, um,
what's your name?
The one that a lot of people don't like that covered Steven Universe.
Fuck what's your name?
Someone in chat's going to know.
Give it a sec.
They're going to fill it in for me.
You can do it, chat.
Come on, you can do it.
Nothing.
Nothing.
Is it the annoying one that everyone hates?
Lily Orchard.
Lily Orchard.
So, uh, there was a couple of flaws in, in Sarah Z's arguments in relation to Lily
Orchard that were quite interesting to watch.
Um, but yeah, uh, I dunno, if, if his part two is going to be about me,
I'll probably check it out out of, uh, interest.
I like how someone said Mahler's wife.
Like I forgot about that meme.
I just remember the fly girl part.
I want to thank all of you for great content you make and also inspire me to think more
critically about the content I consume.
Keep being awesome.
I mean, as long as you get a healthy dose of memes to, to, to buffer with the critical thinking,
I think it's a very healthy.
Yes.
Excellent.
Ever dream of milk?
Ever once in a while.
You guys, uh, do you guys, do you guys dream of milk?
Totally.
There you go.
Shut up and take my money.
Scratch the first part.
Keep up the good work, guys.
Thank you, Jake.
Jack and Eric made their own retarded anti-efab going over your
refab of their video.
Have you seen it?
I could barely stomach 15 minutes.
We watched like what?
The first 30 minutes as it was happening live.
And then we, what were we doing?
We watched a movie out.
Yeah, we got bored of it.
They kept, they were like talking over it and deliberately taking, uh,
the worst approach with everything that was said and fucking hell.
Jack couldn't concede like a single thing.
And it was just like, all right, we see what we're in for.
I'm good.
Um, his audience, by the way,
I remember seeing a comment that was like, oh my God,
the people on eFap, they'll like watch the same segment,
like fucking 10 times, like move on.
It's like, there's always a purpose behind that.
First of all, we like to make sure we've got the quote correct from the person.
You'll notice that that's really important when you actually want to criticize somebody.
It's like our whole thing is about accuracy, but, um, yeah.
And then, and then like, for example, today we're tonaled.
Like we wanted to look for inflection and then grammar, pronunciation,
and then actually what the words even mean and why he would say them.
And then sometimes there's sync issues.
It's just like, yeah, it takes as long as it takes.
Um, but rather than talking over them and then trying to respond because that's embarrassing.
Sorry, tunnel.
They don't call us the toxic brood for nothing.
Toxic milk.
Excellent.
Movies are not literally made by corporations.
They're made by people, even though corporations will fund it and definitely have a say.
Jack saying, I don't, did he say all of that?
Like, I don't know.
Uh, I don't know the context, but interesting comment.
Generalization.
I've been, I've been seriously considering buying an anime body pillow.
Am I irredeemable?
Should I just kill myself?
Yes.
Yeah.
There you go.
Yes.
Yes.
And now I will kill you until you die from it.
You know, literally just a tomato fucking emoji.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
What if it's a molar body?
What if it's a what?
What if it's a molar body pillow?
Oh, um, they can pick that up, but they probably still need to die after it.
Let's be fair.
It's a bit weird.
You know, you gotta, you just gotta, you just gotta take the L and just be like, yeah.
Insulting someone around your different opinions.
So I can't offend Nazis.
Yeah.
You shouldn't insult people for different opinions, even if their opinions are like,
you know, the most horrific ever and wrong ones.
You shouldn't insult them just to have a different opinion.
Jesus.
Poor Tonald.
As the founder of the intellectual gaming community,
I hoped you would be the one to tell us the secret of Mario's jump.
But now, and then crying face.
We'll never know the secret of Mario's jump.
Is Tonald a fanfic writer?
He has terrible grammar and ability to make shit up to prove it.
Um, I don't know, man.
Could you imagine if Tonald actually wrote fanfiction?
Like, it feels sometimes like we're aliens sometimes.
Cause he has like a full on, not only current audience,
but new people come in to watch his videos and they watch them.
And they're just like, this is great.
And do you see how many, like every time we watch him,
we're like, that sentence, what the fuck you trying to say?
Like, we get caught on so much.
Do you just, do you have a wonder?
It's like, are people listening to him or, or no?
Well, that's how this all started, right?
Is like you and me, we met and then like at some point we talked about
Tonald and we both hated him.
And then we responded to one of his videos.
And now Efap is a thing.
He's almost like, he's almost like the top Efap subject at this point.
You know, good old Tonald look.
Yeah, we may have lost Jared, but we still have Tonald.
I think it'd be peak Efap to have Tonald come on like that.
That's just unachievable, but it'd be so cool.
Well, you're the one with the Twitter account.
So you can probably reach out to him, get him on here.
If I tried and he's like,
Oh, well, what kind of show do you run?
I'd be like, Oh God, well total.
Just, just don't explain anything to him.
Just get him on here.
He'd have a fan who'd be like, they rip into you all the time.
They're bullies.
They're toxic to ignore him.
And you saw the fucking hate post.
He's not going to want anything to do with this, but, uh, it would be so much fun to watch.
But it's worth a try.
Because there's like three or four videos that break him down.
It'd be cool to watch one of those with him in the Efap.
Be like fucking defend yourself.
Total quad.
These guys are wrong, right?
You get your founder of the intellectual community.
I would rather throw a peach,
a small payment to celebrate this meeting of the toxic brood.
I am not owned.
I am not owned tonaled cob.
Is that a reference I'm not getting?
Is that a, uh, fairy road reference?
Like the, we are not things or something.
I don't know.
I'm grasping at straws here.
Someone in chat is probably going to be able to clarify.
Wolf looks like it was ripped from Skyrim werewolves.
Looks fantastic in 3d.
Oh, right.
The, uh, the 3d one.
That's such a good meme.
Have you invited?
Well enough considering what we were just talking about,
because this, this was sent a decent chunk back,
but it says, uh, have you invited tonal download thrust before?
I've never tried, but I just, I would never have expected him to say yes.
So we could try.
Yeah.
As we'll throw it out, I guess.
How should I put it?
Should I be like, we're a big fan of your work?
Well, you can't just outright lie to him.
But we are big fans of his work.
You can be a fanatic.
That is true.
We, we just were interested by your content and we would love to talk to you about video games.
I'll try at some point.
I swear.
I just, someone's trying to draw the, uh, Agri total.
How long have you been covering?
Um, I want to say we've covered him four times.
I think there should be like people who are like, who at least tag him on Twitter or any social
media is like, Hey, these people are, you know, talking about you.
I think he's aware of us.
I'm pretty sure he is.
Yes.
He should, he should at least be aware of you guys.
He should not like us.
He should not like you.
And he's dead pool to video might be fat material.
We've always planned to do nostalgic critics video on van Helsing.
We're going to watch the movie and I'm going to watch that so we can talk about a weird,
obscure old movie at this point sort of thing.
Going to cover him eventually.
Hey guys, opinion on VTM bloodlines too.
I was happy until I found the Rudy gay Muslim antifa member vampire who fights
against depression in the new clan books.
What the fuck?
Excuse me.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Oh, you haven't heard of that.
Yeah.
I don't know what this is.
So yeah, essentially vampire, the masquerades to well, to put it simply got woke.
Is this a video game or yes.
A video game vampire, the masquerades.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But the best ones quite beloved from what I know.
Yeah.
It's a lot.
Everybody loved the first one.
But the second one, well, it got a lot of flag because one of the characters is like,
like, well, as the super chat described it, very woke.
A Muslim gay antifa vampire that, that literally does not make sense in any context ever.
And apparently there are statements from the developers about wanting to go political.
I yeah, I don't know anything.
Yeah.
Whenever someone says I want to go political, they weren't previously political.
Rip your career.
Hi, hi.
I love you guys.
Here's a bit of cash.
Thank you very much.
Wolf.
I finally rewatched Alita last night.
I have to agree with your assessment on the film's world building.
Also, everything involving Hugo sucked.
I was from Blessed South.
Oh, well.
Oh, Blessed South.
I love you.
I knew that there was a reason I liked you, buddy.
Jack's wife's boyfriend enjoyed your debate, Wolf.
Lord of the Rigs didn't have magic acorns.
This is back when we were talking about Willow, I think.
You know the magic, correct me if I'm wrong, because I did recently rewatch it,
but maybe I fucking forgot.
You would've used like one acorn and it didn't work.
Like you threw it at the evil queen and she just neutered it immediately.
She was like, he was like, oh.
Yeah, man.
When I was a kid, I was, I remember thinking of that as like one of my favorite movies.
And then I watched it again a few years ago.
And I was like, this is kind of really bad.
It's really clunky.
It's really horrible.
Like, I was gonna say it hasn't aged well.
But I was like, yeah, but there are films that are that old that aren't clunky.
I don't think it's aged.
I think it's just the way that it's almost cheesy, campy.
I'm not sure.
But yeah, it's awkward.
Hey, guys.
I'm curious what your thoughts are on a video game sequel being too similar
or too different from previous games.
People criticize games for both sides, even though they are opposite.
Depends on the game.
That's a complicated thing, yeah.
Depends on the game.
Because I mean, you got like the new God of War game.
Not anything like gameplay wise.
That is the previous God of War games.
But the story is still really good.
And the gameplay is not bad in the new one either.
I guess it really depends on the game we're talking about.
Yeah, depends on game of game.
Tough question.
Is this bomb drop animation from the Atari game?
It did seem like a, I'm not sure where you got it, Rob.
Newton's Fist Lord didn't exist a long time ago.
Duh, yeah.
Makes sense.
Those bombs would descend at maybe 10 meters per second, which is nothing.
Your target would have to be completely stationary and have no guns at all to work.
Yeah, that's the other thing.
They're not gonna fall fast.
And if they did, even if they did fall faster than what we saw in the film,
all a TIE fighter had to do was shoot one of them.
And then they all blow up.
Because they horribly designed ships.
If it's time to catch this live in a while,
I have to say as Wolf, shut the fuck up.
Elite of Battle Angels is a good movie, although not perfect or a masterpiece.
Uh.
He thought both of you disagree.
How many times do I need to clarify this statement before people...
Like, is the Alina fanbase a cult?
Is that what this is?
Because I don't know how many times I have to literally say,
I don't think it's an awful movie.
I think it's very disappointing.
Mahler, what are you doing after this stream is done?
Mmm, are you suggesting we watch it?
I'm suggesting we find a rip of it and watch it, yes.
Uh, could do, could do.
I was actually...
Well, I was always planning to watch it with you once a good, you know, version was out.
Yeah.
Yeah, well.
Oh, well.
If we can find, like, a stop...
Like, one that's, like, got a relatively okay quality rip,
then we may as well just do it.
More liberties with physicals.
May I introduce you to Warhammer 40k?
Do they, do they screw with that in Warhammer 40k?
Do you, either of you know?
I've never played Warhammer, so I don't know.
Happy, you're supposed to be all nerd.
You're supposed to know these things.
I'm not.
God damn it.
It just takes one tweak.
If you turn the payload on its side,
instead of dropping hundreds of bombs at, like, six at a time,
it could drop 70-ish at a time without clogging as badly carpet bombing style.
I would just redesign the whole thing.
I feel like maybe, maybe we should scrap this.
Watch TLJ versus KOTOR 2, a video you'll like for once.
Well, we, we don't really typically watch videos we like
because we don't want to do the whole, we just play it and then don't say anything.
And then, yay, amazing.
And we did it.
Like, remember when we watched Sarah Z?
Like, I almost felt like I was supposed to hate it.
Yeah, like, we weren't finding much to disagree with
because she was like, yeah, that's a fair point.
Here's kind of why we feel that way.
Moving on.
She's like, hmm.
Yeah.
On my day off, too.
You just made my weekend.
I'm so proud of this toxic brood.
It's the best of the broods.
Let's be fair.
Hey, Wolf, just joining in.
Did you see that movie, Us?
I thought it was stupid.
It made no sense.
I'd love to hear your thoughts.
I'm not going to watch it.
Mauler, you answered that question since you did.
The film is funny when they explain what's happening in it.
Like, my barometer for it was that even my dad,
who literally likes every movie ever,
was like, this doesn't make a lot of sense.
I was like, not really, no.
No, it doesn't.
Is there an unbridled rage Captain Marvel on the way?
Yes, there is.
I'm not going to estimate delivery.
It's on the way.
It's going to be good.
I mean, I'm putting a lot of effort into it.
So I'll be tearing into the plot extensively.
Everything is wrong.
Oh, my God.
Someone made safe Georgie art on Twitter.
It's at Gavin Monroe seven.
Okay.
I don't have Twitter.
Someone find it for me.
Post it.
Seven.
Have you asked me with it?
Like, I have mostly picked them up.
Oh, my.
I'll post it.
Post that shit.
It's coming.
It's coming.
I got to set up so that everyone can see it.
When I didn't even know you could make a save Georgie art.
It's actually pretty awesome as a reference.
Honestly, I think even Eric would even like this.
Oh, I'm excited then.
Oh, my God.
It's perfect.
Little raincoat.
I was like, where are they going to do an it reference?
I was like, well, no, how do you do that?
This is how you do it.
It's amazing.
I love it.
Someone in the chat said perfect.
Perfect.
Star fortress has anti gravity plating on ceiling.
Uh, okay.
Our fortress.
I mean, they use it's the dreadnought, right?
Is was if if I mean, even if it did, we'd have to be know.
Can you imagine if they didn't tell us any of this?
And then the bombs get demagnetized, like repelled from the fucking dreadnought
and they fling into like random thing.
We would just be like, what the fuck's happening?
Movies like we'd start to explain everything.
Jeez.
What's your theory on how Thanos is defeated in Endgame?
You know, besides the obvious answer of Ant-Man exploding in his ass.
I would imagine that wouldn't work actually.
I mean, you see someone made like a video of that.
Like someone animated it in 3D.
It made it to the top of Reddit at one point.
It was funny.
Yeah.
But I imagine that I imagine that because Thanos is so strong.
When Ant-Man tries to enlarge himself, he would be crushed.
Yeah.
Just a bunch of flash would pop out of Thanos's butt and he'd be like, what?
But, um, yeah, no, I'm probably just considering the really small quick shots of what looks to be
like all of the heroes on like a battlefield of some kind.
That's like, you know, horrible.
I'm like, is it, is that when they fight Thanos early in the film before they time travel?
I don't know.
I imagine he's going to be undone by the time traveling specifically, not necessarily like
one of the heroes doing a thing, but who knows?
Captain Marvel could defeat him single handedly.
I really want that to happen.
I really want that to happen.
I wanted to tell the heroes to sit at home while she takes care of everything.
That would be like a perfect ending for the MCU.
Just make people go, oh, come on.
No.
They're like, all of your characters will return to the next movie.
Are you happy?
You're like, oh, no, I'm watching that shit again, fam.
Oh, shit.
Um, original Star Wars had World War II tactics.
Prequels have 18th century style tactics.
What's stopping the new trilogy from having modern or at least Vietnam War tactics?
I don't know.
88.
No idea.
8080s are pretty super armored on all sides, which is why the only way to blew it up.
And which is why the only way they blew it up and shooting in the neck after it was tripped
are able to walk over most rain outside of oceans.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
It's just that they're pretty stiff is all.
So it's just not helpful if someone attacks them from behind.
And again, you could be like, well, they can't do anything.
Like, still, you know, you think you'd think they'd have something on the back,
maybe just a little turret.
And he's like, um, Hello Greedo is a US Navy veteran.
How the hell is he so dumb?
How is he so ignorant on the topics he tries to defend?
That's interesting, actually.
I wonder if well, he did say that he was like, you know, it shouldn't be realistic.
I was one of his main points.
So as far as he's concerned, you know, doesn't matter.
And this also depends on like, what position in the Navy he had.
That's true.
8080 was shot in the neck.
Also, AT-ST cover flank.
I could have sworn they shoot in the body as well.
Like, I'd have to watch it again.
I remember the body like exploding.
But I don't remember where they shot it.
It's been a few years since I last watched it.
Yeah, it's been a while.
The more people try to defend TLJ, the worse reaching for argument points seems to get
the harder they try to prove this movie is good to me with poor argumentation.
The bigger my hate bonerate for it grows.
Keep it up.
Beautiful.
They did have access to the A6 Juggernaut over the AT-AT for transport.
Basically, death on wheels of personnel.
Anti-personnel and anti-rocket weaponry.
Ouch.
Fair enough.
From my understanding, the excuses that the Empire's vehicles
are made to be more intimidating than in the Clone Wars.
I can be wrong.
So that's a weird thing, though.
Like, if they were like...
Intimidation over effectiveness?
Yeah, I think this Death Star takes care of intimidation.
They should be fine.
Yeah, what about the rest of their vehicles, though?
Even like the ARC-170 seemed like a more effective fighter than a TIE fighter.
Then again, the TIE fighter is really small.
There's lots to say on that subject, I guess.
Um, people keep bringing up the World War II inspiration for aerial combat.
They're mostly correct, but for ground attack, the tech is fairly similar
to tech present in the 70s, targeting computers and guided munitions.
Ignoring harpoons.
Yeah.
Lucas's explanation was that the OT Empire military was a counter-insurgence military
versus the prequels, which were a large-scale conventional war army.
Counter-insurgence?
I mean, you know, again, there's loads to talk about for all that stuff.
If the idea is, if one is unrealistic compared to real militaries,
then as long as any of the other ones are even remotely unrealistic, then it's all fine.
It's like, that's the annoying part where it's like, oh, there's still different degrees.
You see, I have a solution to all of this.
Don't make prequels.
There are good prequels.
Yeah, but not many.
So then why you won't get those good ones if you don't make prequels?
I would rather not have any prequels.
You know, you could argue that too many a genesis is a prequel.
That doesn't help.
That literally just supports my argument more.
Well, wait, are you saying you shouldn't make sequels then?
Okay, what is a good prequel?
No, I thought the same thing.
Oh, I didn't have an example.
I'm just saying, theoretically, it's possible.
There probably is one that I'm struggling to figure out.
If you can't even name one, I think that's-
It's theoretically possible, Appa Ben.
That's all I need.
I win.
Yeah, actually, what is a good one?
Yeah, I mean, I'm drawing blanks here.
I don't, I can't think of any really good prequels.
Godfather 2, yay!
Promethean.
I'll give you that, Godfather 2.
I never actually saw Godfather 2.
I saw the first one.
Godfather 2 is fucking amazing.
Why is it called Godfather 2 if it's prequel?
I don't think Timminator 2 counts as a prequel.
No, it's half sequel, half prequel.
That doesn't make sense.
It does.
Timminator 2 doesn't necessarily count as a prequel.
I don't think all of it takes place-
How does Timminator 2-
Well, because they could argue that you see the war-
Temple of Doom.
It's not a prequel.
Temple of Doom.
New spring, the book.
Oh, Wheel of Time.
I haven't read that one yet.
Oh, we're not allowed to use books as cheating.
Yeah.
Because we all know books are bad.
The Hobbit.
You just-
Yeah, I mean, I'm just looking at my-
It's amazing.
Because you guys laughed that much,
now I have to show it on stream.
Otherwise people will be upset.
Yeah.
Red Dead 2, Devil May Cry 3, X-Men First Class.
I mean-
It was okay.
Okay.
Yeah, I suppose that counts because it's not horrible.
Is that our criteria?
Yeah.
Yakuza 0 is pretty good too, so okay.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes.
Hmm.
Wait, wasn't that more of like a reboot, if anything?
I don't know if that counts as a reboot, to be honest.
Yeah, that's weird.
Not to mention the Planet of the Apes trilogy,
it kind of got worse with like every movie.
Like the first one was like,
okay, this is interesting.
Then the second one was like,
and the third one was bad.
Oh, I haven't seen it because people tell me
that it's really damn good.
So I'm prepared for it.
Good if you don't think about a lot of it.
All right.
All right.
Like I-
And I'll take your word for it for now.
I'll take your word for now.
I was like on the fence with the second
because there's some dumb shit in that movie,
but it was like, okay, it's fine.
But the third one I just did not like at all.
Oh yeah, Metal Gear Solid 3, Metal Gear Solid 5.
No, Metal Gear Solid 5.
But-
Yeah, I've never played MGS, so.
All right.
That's what your Republic 1 and 2 is also.
Goddamn, the freaking sequel.
Halo Reach.
Movies only.
Movies only.
No.
No.
Mad Jack Churchill fought in World War II
with a claymore and a bow and arrow.
I mean, I'm sure somebody did it.
Okay, again, we're talking like this is 100 years ago.
And things are-
Things have changed.
Swords are still relevant.
Otherwise, we wouldn't have the Highlander movies.
What are they gonna do?
Shoot off each other's heads?
Oh, I get that.
But yeah, I mean, it's tough to make swords cool
and usable compared to good old guns.
Stars go through cycles of dark ages and rediscovery.
No joke, the class rings from my college
have two confirmed kills.
One in Vietnam and one in Afghanistan.
Huh?
Don't piss them off.
So after it being mentioned in a few past livestreams,
mainly on Rags channel, I Googled what Bad Dragon is
and I now have several questions,
but I'll stick with just two.
What the fuck did I just see?
And do any of you know of clinics
that specialize in Bad Dragon induced PTSD?
Yeah, a good clinic to go to is Home Depot.
Buy some rope and you know what to do with it.
Laser rope?
Yes.
I don't know.
I actually don't know what Bad Dragon is.
I actually did, you know.
Well, with that description, I want to not find out now.
They're dildos.
Yeah, yeah, I saw that.
And I'm like, oh.
AT-ATs aren't even bad ground armored transport units.
Their only weak point is where their heads connect
to the body, which isn't normally targetable.
Yeah, again, it's just, it's more about their maneuverability.
They're very limited.
And it feels like they probably didn't have to be.
Like something could be done design wise.
Have any of you read any of the expanded universe
and which books in it do you recommend if you have?
That's like wolf only.
Yeah, I've read a good chunk of the EU.
Some of it's really bad, but there are some good ones.
The Thrawn trilogy is pretty good.
Man, I don't remember the name of it.
It was, I think it's like Fate of the Jedi or something.
I've kind of dropped off halfway through
because I was like, this is getting kind of bad.
But like the first three or so books,
I remember really liking.
But the Thrawn trilogy is probably the best
from what I've read.
Helipathic lasers.
So hyped for Gedel too.
But anyways, guys, I'll catch the stream on Moolah tomorrow.
But anyways, guys, I'll catch the stream on Moolah tomorrow.
But anyways, guys, have a lovely night in my opinion.
Let's go to the table.
He's saying it's Ray mode.
What was that a reference to?
Oh yeah, the gaming journalism thing.
Hello, you massive antisons.
I'm looking forward to catching the rest of the street
when I get back home eight hours from now.
Peace and love and happiness.
I've been through so many things.
Lociano, Lociano Tonaldo.
Tonaled Gump.
Y'all too wrong for this.
Laugh my ass off.
I'm not even sure what I was referencing.
Tonaled should get drunk every video.
Yes.
Oh, could you imagine if we had him on
and he agreed to get drunk with us too?
So good.
Do you think he might, like his English might improve
if he's drunk?
Just a bit.
You can get plus one revive
if they vote for you at the end of a mission.
You can do the same, only benefit to co-op at all.
Okay.
Did he say the nonstop action game interrupts him?
He did say...
Yeah, kind.
I mean, he took the video down.
I think he may have realized some of the mistakes.
With the cutscenes a second highlight
right after the nonstop action scenes,
those cutscenes are interrupting.
It seemed to be that he was saying
that it was great nonstop outside of when it interrupts.
I'm not sure.
I'd have to watch it again.
At least a battle angel has amazing world building.
Wolf 2019.
I don't think he said that.
No.
I did not say that.
Lord of the Rings is objectively bad.
Word of Wolf 2019.
I don't know that he said that.
I definitely did not say that.
Auto mode.
That's why he probably uses Royal Guard to block.
That probably isn't something.
Lolan, enjoying Tonal's DMC5 video.
Yes.
Cappy Gamer was the one
that actually managed to get it to me,
so he's probably happy we're covering it.
He was just...
Make sure to send it to Friggy.
Send it to who?
Yeah.
Yeah, Friggy also played DMC5.
Get Froggled to do the thing.
You'll get super fucking pissed, I think.
Friggy's been taking photos of that one.
We could totally like...
I know.
Get him to make...
It'll make him make a video.
I hope.
Send it to him.
Tell him like...
Guys, go on Twitter.
And at him, saying...
Friggy, you should totally make a video on Tonal Bloke's DMC5 video.
Be like...
Just flood his Twitter with,
we want you back, Froggled.
We need you.
We need your videos.
You make great videos.
We'll get him one day, guys.
Get him one day.
On vacation in Florida,
but I'm glad I can catch some fappage
while I wait at the bar.
Beautiful.
Judge by what it tries to do,
not what you expected to do.
By that logic, the Predator was perfect.
It tried to be a movie where a space race
just wants those ass-biggers,
and boy, did it succeed.
That's true.
Yeah, I don't think...
I'm not sure if that's what he meant.
I think he meant the criteria is determined
by what they were trying to achieve,
and then you judge how well they achieved that thing.
I think?
I don't know, though.
This is weird.
We'd have to ask Tonal.
Tonal in that photo looks like someone
whose waitress gave him a salad fork for his steak,
so he followed her into an alleyway.
He would never do that.
Tonal's a good one.
It took Tonal years of intense training
at 4,000 calories a day to achieve
that level of emotion and facial expression.
Hashtag Tonal'd Law.
I didn't know that.
Pretty cool.
Intense training at 4,000 calories per day.
Flooded Pipeman, Steam Achievements, and Xbox Tutorial.
Would that be answered by the fact
that he would have had an Xbox controller plugged in?
Yeah.
He just made it very confusing
with using multiple different controllers,
and multiple different versions of Steam.
Heartfelt shoutout to all the meme video
and art creatives for making Efab
actually have the most real genuine community.
Creamy sheave.
Artificial barriers of blockage
are the opposite of impenetrable forests.
What does he mean by artificial barriers?
I don't need to go back to that.
High level artificial artre-
You know what?
Just combine the memes.
Just combine the memes.
I feel bad for missing most of this Efab,
but I promise to watch it later on, Mula.
All hail the toxic brood.
Question for Wolf.
Would you be interested in doing a Korra critique
or at least book one?
I would really rather do literally anything
other than watch Korra again.
Not to mention this E.R.
Why would you watch Korra again?
Like, just watch E.R.'s videos on Korra and that's-
Yeah, E.R. already did a good job on it.
I will never watch that series again.
You couldn't pay-
Well, maybe you could pay me enough to watch it,
but I would really rather not do that.
One in which open will get-
Yeah, that was hilarious.
Lost phrases.
Dumb doo doo, dumb dumb dumb doo doo, dumb dumb dumb.
Hear that?
That's the marching song of my brain cells
are humming as they walk off a cliff one by one
with big tonal grin on their faces.
Fair enough.
What does a total grin look like?
I don't know.
That's fanfic.
That's never happened.
Efab scholars of the first totaled.
That is a reference to DS2.
I enjoy the tomato pegging tonaled.
Very nice.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Don't know what you're talking about.
Here's a super chat on YouTube's dime.
Great stream.
That's Psy.
I believe he is hoping to collaborate with Jay in the future.
He's another YouTuber.
So that is the extension of my knowledge there,
but thank you Psy.
New difficulties.
Loads of skills you can't unlock in the face.
Play through branching character paths.
Secret missions.
Oh yeah, I did read that out.
Nero's kit opens up a lot more once the game ends.
Nero gets two mechanics in the last mission.
How does that not incentivize you to replay the game?
It's so cool.
Yeah, it looks like you just stood up wrong on that.
There's missions where you get to pick a character.
Most of these missions have a character
that's going completely different.
Unique path.
Again.
Tomato one, tonaled zero.
Rages I enjoyed the book.
Very moist.
Oh, rags I enjoyed the book.
Very moist.
I get it.
Wolf TFA part two is spot on.
Mauler fallout 76 review is really good.
Work Bilbo bagging.
Punctuation and grammar is implied.
Fans have his permission to buy it.
All the feds should wait for a sale.
Well, I'm sure they're glad they have his permission.
Mauler you are a massive and so is rags.
Sorry, Wolf.
You're not a massive.
Get fucked.
Yeah, what do I get?
Here's my high level donate.
Short man bad, short man bad, short man bad.
That's from three different people at the same time.
Somebody must have said.
Shout out to Anna the best waifu.
Anna as in the Metro's Anna.
Oh, maybe.
Star Wars circus with all toxic clowns.
Wolf, I've been trying to find your book all day.
No luck.
I'm in the UK.
Where can I buy it?
How is everybody?
Oh, is it maybe not in the UK store?
No, I checked it is.
Oh, it's just called iridescent.
Just put it into the book section in the search tab.
And it's the one with the white cover.
If you want to grab a link for it while we're doing this and just
Oh, yeah, I put a link into it.
Like shortly.
It's a question.
I don't know if he saw it, but.
Last year is the guide, which I will never abandon.
Bilbo Washington source expanded universe of America.
Casu number 51 air to the big empire.
Yeah, I've read that.
Love you.
TFA.
Bill this off.
Good job.
You have the good work.
I like to take part two as well.
I worked very hard on it.
Love you guys.
Have a picture made for the stream.
And if that means of your shit, every dollar helps.
Thank you.
I can't wait for April Fool's Day video tomorrow.
I'm hope everybody watches.
If we'll have fun with it, I swear.
I don't watch Game of Thrones show creators get near Star Wars
because there'll be a lot.
It'll be a lot massive.
I'd rather Sam Raimi or big deal.
Oh, and brothers.
And yeah, I'm concerned as well.
Who knows what they're going to do?
The writing.
They could make a visually impressive Star Wars, but well, we know how that goes.
Wait, Baywood did actually make something by the way.
Really?
I thought he was dealing with a.
It's from last week, apparently.
Well, what is it?
I'm trying to figure it out.
Maybe I'm.
Show me.
Let me interpret.
I'll pop it up.
We can look at it for a while and ponder on its musings or musical.
Yeah.
Here's upon the ponders.
Is this racism?
Oh, that's that's that's what's his name.
Jurassic World.
Yeah.
Shinobi.
Rhino milk is his faces.
I get it.
Beautiful.
Thank you, Bayland.
It's wonderful.
All of these will go in my Discord as well.
By the end of the stream, I'll collect them all up.
So don't worry about that.
Less than seven hours.
Sorry.
I give this a zero rags to him.
Find a P Great Sekiro YouTuber and check out his stream.
Enjoy it and fall asleep.
Watching it wake up.
He's banning guys ranting about Nazis and Trump or calling conservatives monsters.
Just another day on YouTube.
Wait, what repeat?
Can you repeat that?
So I guess this guy found a pretty good Sekiro YouTuber
and then decided to check out his stream was enjoying it and then fell asleep
and then woke up to him banning people ranting about Nazis and Trump
and calling conservatives monsters.
The hell happened?
Was it Quinton reviews that you're watching?
He has two dollars.
Sorry for tweeting you the wrong pic.
No problem, dude.
What's the difference between great powers come with great responsibility
from Spider-Man 1 and the greatest teacher's failure from TLJ?
Explain please, thanks.
I think that it's fair to draw a difference between those two.
Like the best way to learn is through failure, I think is what he's trying to say.
And then with great power comes great responsibilities
about how you how you use your power for what reason and what ends and be careful.
You know, I think there's a difference between them.
Technically, you guys are amazing.
Long live the toxic brood and it's got toxic skull wolf.
Looks like picture of female sad face toxic.
I'm not sure.
Wait, did Mueller and Anderson debate?
You can find it on Twitter somewhere.
It was embarrassing for someone.
But yes, it happened.
Still copycat for Sigourney Weaver and the negotiator of Samuel Jackson.
Never seen these guys.
Wish they make thrillers as good as the past.
There are some some probably good ones out there.
You just gotta this is the thing.
I always want to fight against the idea that, you know,
there are only bad movies or anything.
Like Wolf, what do you think of whiplash?
Oh, I loved that.
Yeah.
Was it 20?
Yeah, that was great.
Was it 24?
2014.
Yeah.
You know, the pleasure is awesome.
I get that that's not as five years old now, but still went that I saw that when it came out
and I was blown away.
I thought it was amazing.
Yeah, it was fucking amazing.
I love it.
What's what's the newest good film you guys can think of that you really,
really, really enjoyed?
And don't say Mission Impossible for that.
I saw Hexro bridge.
I thought it was.
You know, are we what's what's the what's the newest
film you've seen that you thought was really good?
Oh, let me look at 2018 films because I know I like that.
Yeah, because that could be just newest.
Well, I don't like any of the movies from 2019 so far.
All right.
2018.
Mission Impossible Fallout was fucking amazing.
Yes.
Oh, I accidentally put in 2008.
I was like, why is it showing up the dark night in Iron Man?
Oh, hold on.
Let me let me look through this.
Oh, kind of kind of a strange one.
But what do we just watch?
Spider-Verse.
Yeah, Spider-Verse was pretty bad to mention.
Oh, yeah, I really liked that one.
I really liked the green book.
I really liked Deadpool 2.
I feel like there was another one that I'm forgetting it.
I mean, obviously, Mission Impossible Fallout.
Oh, yeah, Searching was really good.
I loved that too.
Oh, Bohemian Rhapsody was fun.
Wasn't like some spectacular film, but I had fun with it.
A lot of people like when I was trying to bring you about it,
he was like, but the editing and I was like, all the worst parts of
editing of one of Bohemian Rhapsody.
There's loads of bad editing in Bohemian Rhapsody for sure.
But I think that the meme has gone a little bit too far.
The film isn't like incomprehensible for his editing.
Yeah.
Because I get it.
It shouldn't have won the Oscar for it.
I totally agree.
But it's not like I can't watch the film.
Yeah.
Then again, Black Panther shouldn't be in anything Oscar, but...
It should have won all the Oscars, dude.
You racist.
Yeah.
No, I'm not.
I'm not, though.
The vampire might make sense if they're a part of the
Borussia clan who have anarchism and anti-authoritarianism in their blood.
I wouldn't know.
Because I just don't know that universe.
Futaba is best waifu.
Anyway, here's a tip.
Thank you.
Only all the British nerds you should know about Warhammer, you massive.
I don't.
I'm a bad British nerd.
I am a massive.
It's okay.
Why don't you make Game of Thrones Unbridled Rages?
Now is the perfect time to rant about that since Season 8 premieres in April.
Um.
Damn.
No.
That's like one episode.
It's like 40 minutes.
If.
And every season it's like eight episodes round it.
If I had the outlet I have right now, which I didn't even have the rages until the end of 2017.
And I would have made one for the end of Season 4 if that had come out when I had that.
But if Season 8 fucks things up miserably, which I have a feeling it might do,
then I'll totally make a video ranting about that.
Because Game of Thrones is an upsetting franchise, or at least TV show.
The book isn't exactly doing amazing right now, but Jesus Christ,
that show goes up and down and up and down and up and down.
As someone that read the manga since I was the age of seven,
the movie wasn't that amazing.
It was okay at best.
I'm assuming that's to do with.
Alita.
Alita, yeah.
I was just talking about Alita.
Yeah.
Bango was much better for the record.
I'd like to announce that you can watch Episode 3 without one and two.
As a first time, you can do that.
Cinematography fine.
Mostly rest is great.
What are the side of reference to you?
Um, I don't know.
Is that the prequels it might be talking about?
Revenge of the Sith or...
Could you watch Revenge of the Sith without the first one?
I don't think you can watch Revenge of the Sith.
No.
No, no, no.
I mean, you...
Well, because there's references to the previous movies.
I mean, because a lot of you could watch Empire Without a New Hope.
No.
No.
But didn't you?
I think you can follow along.
I'm not saying you should.
But you wouldn't have the context of Obi-Wan, of how Darth Vader's got resentment toward Luke for, you know...
But then, wouldn't you also not have the context of like who Count Dooku is or why there's a war, how it started?
Yeah, I still don't think that you can watch Revenge of the Sith with watching the first two.
Watching the first two.
Thoughts on Denise Filmneuve's Dune remake in 2020?
Good luck.
I'm excited.
I'm cautiously optimistic.
Because the problems I have with the first Dune movie is that it was really made at a time where
the technology wasn't good enough to accomplish a lot of the things that they tried to do.
Like, if they stay faithful to the book in the new movie, I think they really kick ass film, but
I don't want to get my hopes up.
So I looked at Eric Tax and Twitter, I'm blind now.
Yep, I...
Oh no, guys, don't ever look at Eric Tax on Twitter.
It's the whole, it's the, you know, it's the arc of the covenant sort of situation.
Don't be doing that.
Ant-Man gay?
Just add in the chat so I have to efap forever.
Oh, well, we're nearly there.
Watch Lorerunner reviews on Star Wars, bring him in as a guest.
I mean, if he would like to, I don't know.
Red Dead Redemption 2 and Better Call Soul are great prequels.
How so good movies are.
Truly, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Movies.
Actually, both are true.
If you can sit through anime, Fate slash Zero is a great prequel series to Fate slash Stay Night.
Yeah, yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
If you guys want to talk Star Wars, you should bring on Lorerunner.
I'm pretty sure he likes the sequels.
I remember a lot of theme arguments.
Oh, he'd do great out here if he was.
Good is a point of view prequels and originals are almost similar in every day.
Also, MGS 3, MGS 5 are prequels.
Movies, guys, I was talking about it.
Total Bloke is the worst.
I want to put a straw all the way up his...
Oh, oh.
An Inflate is Bladder like a balloon until it pops.
No.
Then we won't get more tonal videos.
We need more tonal videos.
Rogue One let me down as a galactic battlegrounds.
It made it canon that 8080s were invented in the time between four and five.
Ripped the EU, I suppose.
Did it?
I thought they just had them.
I don't know.
I don't know that they meant...
What do you guys think of the one guy on the escapist people don't watch ironically?
Any contentions you have with any of his reviews?
Wait, who?
Yahtzee?
I'm assuming they mean Yahtzee.
Movie Bob?
He says the Yahtzee is kind of...
Yahtzee is a tard though.
I own a Yahtzee for his comedy.
I don't particularly like him for his information.
I mean, we're talking about a guy who is confused by Halo 1, 2 and 3.
You would have to be brain dead to be confused by those games.
Confused? How?
What was he confused by?
Like he said he didn't understand anything that was happening.
And they have like some of the most simplistic stories I've seen in any video game.
Like the dude's an idiot.
I have not seen him say an intelligent thing before.
Yeah, he's occasionally funny in the...
Otherwise, he's just a dumbass.
I was gonna say I find him...
I like this one.
Let me just get...
I like the whole thing.
But there's something specific on his couch is why I like this one.
What is this?
Oh my god.
No, no.
Rags.
Rags, what are you doing?
Get out of there.
Rags, no.
That was the dog that was there anyway.
I don't fucking know.
No, no, no.
Look what's on top of the dog.
What?
What do you mean?
I'm not...
Hold on.
This is...
Oh, that's his chair.
You see, you see, I thought that was a tail and a leg standing on top of the dog in a suggestive position.
Oh no, that's just a chair.
The funny thing is that they drew the tomato on the cat.
Okay, that makes sense.
Okay, that makes...
Wolf finally goes to creepy places confirmed.
What do you guys think of the one...
Oh wait, yeah, sorry.
Revenge of the Sith is 10 out of 10.
Word of Wolf 1945.
Shit, you said that in 1945?
I guess so.
I would have to be like out of this world to say that it's a 10 out of 10.
Love y'all stuff, my Edwards.
F-word, sorry.
Wolf, who do you think they're going to ruin the most when Wheels of Time comes out?
I'm assuming WOT.
Oh yeah.
I'm thinking Matt or Land due to their respective womanizing and stoicism.
Definitely.
Any of the male characters, they're already gonna fuck it up because they were like,
all right, let's take all of the main perspective characters,
push them to the side and make the side character,
the woman, the protagonist, and it's like,
there's already two female protagonists, Gwen and Nyniv,
but they're just...
It's gonna be bad.
They're probably really gonna mess up Rand.
That's who I'm most concerned for.
And Perrin.
I like Perrin.
If you could open one of JJ's boxes, which one would it be?
Assuming they mean like, get an actual answer for one of the setups,
installers, sequels, which one would it be?
Hmm.
How did Rey get her power?
I suppose would be the cool one.
How did Snoke manage to fuck up the world entirely?
That's probably the two I'd probably want the most.
Why did JJ think he's a good writer is the one?
What's your opinion on the creator of Earthwim Jim saying
that game devs should stop trying to make good stories because Fortnite was successful?
Well.
From a money standpoint, maybe he's right, but I mean, good stories sell.
In games.
A lot of people said that they're like, the selling point for the new God of War
was the story because a lot of people didn't like the gameplay.
So.
Judo.
But yeah, Fortnite was successful.
That's true.
I'm writing a sequel to my own novel and I'm concerned that I might screw it up in so many ways.
Any advice, Wolf?
Oh, plan, plan, plan.
Like you look at Pirates of the Caribbean, any of the sequels after the first movie,
and you see that they really have no idea what they were doing because they took all these things
because like, remember when we were watching it, like there were some things
from the first movie that they tried to expand upon that were there like his tattoo
or the compass and all that shit.
But once they ran out of the things to expand upon, they lost their minds.
And did a bunch of shit.
Yeah, you have to plan everything out like well beforehand.
And we're not talking to make sure it makes sense.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
We had Calypso is the God of the sea in our head back in the first movie.
We were tooling around with it.
It's like, no, no, no, no, not that kind of planning.
Planning where you actually have it out.
Nice big plan.
People say things and do things and go places and resources are set.
Why is you're going to start jumping problems?
Preferably, if you're like writing a series, you should like have a rough
line of like the whole thing, or at least like the main beats you want to hit.
But yeah, you got to plan that out a lot.
And it's tough because I'm pretty sure George RR Martin
argues for that too.
And yet he still did the whole Miranese knot thing.
The what?
Is it Miranese?
It's something not someone in chats going to know that might be it.
But the idea that his whole issue, it took him ages to try and write out a character
was at two places at once or needed to be in a place that they couldn't get to.
And that's what stalled him for ages on trying to figure out how to continue the story.
Come on chat.
Someone will know.
Gordonian.
Not quite.
A rough outline.
No, there's gotta be a Game of Thrones nerd in the chat.
I'd be disappointed if they weren't.
We mentioned it on a previous beef app actually.
Someone said what was going on in the writers?
So we just scream incoherently and become crabs to exit the movie.
That's a that's a great question.
Like that's you guys may think that that's for those of you who haven't seen the third
Pirates of the Caribbean.
You may think that that's just something that commenter made up.
That is literally what happens.
A giant Calypso starts screaming.
Autistically.
And then she turns into like a thousand crabs.
And then the crabs jump in the water and the water makes a what would you call that
a whirlpool?
Oh, there you go.
King Edward Longshanks has explained it.
The Miranese knot is George realizing that Danny's plot is so hopelessly convoluted
that she can't resolve the issues there successfully before she returns to Westeros,
which she must do.
And that's why we're never going to get book six.
You guys going to see Shazam?
I agree with 100 percent of the criticism of the DC movies, but Shazam looks like it'll be fun.
Yeah, I'll see Shazam.
I'm fine with seeing.
I've got no rush to see it in the cinemas, but I'll see it eventually because a lot of people
said it's good.
Yeah, I don't I don't think I'm going to watch it in theaters, but the trailers were like,
all right, it looks decent.
A legend.
Go ahead.
No, go ahead.
Okay.
A Legend of Ashlands.
Is that it?
Is that Wolf's book?
No, his book is Interstellar Marines.
No, no, no, no, no.
You were you were right.
You were right.
It is is not Interstellar Marines.
Don't listen to Mauler.
He's a bad person.
Wait, I thought a Legend of Ashlands and Iridescent are the two books.
No, it's the same thing.
Okay, cool.
Yes, that is the correct one, then.
Okay, Mauler.
I'm kind of re-tared.
I wanted to tell you why my uncle I wanted you to tell me
why Uncle Bane line from SM1 works and Uncle Yoda's line from TLJ doesn't work.
Well, the Yoda's line from TLJ doesn't necessarily work because the narrative
goes against his advice.
Like people don't people are learning lessons from failures that didn't happen as in like
Poe learns to do the wrong thing by having done the right thing and being punished for it.
Does that make sense?
Like, so the theme is like, you see Poe did the process and it's like, no,
Poe Poe was scolded for doing the correct thing.
And then at the end, he did something stupid as a result.
So what Yoda said is like reversed.
Yoda's statement is fine.
It's the execution in the narrative.
That's the important part of a theme, right?
How it spreads through the film, how the film shows you all the story, how it works.
And then the reason it works in Spider-Man is, I mean,
nobody's disagreeing with the Raimi Spider-Man's
exploring with great power comes great responsibility, right?
Hello?
I think so.
He was a boy.
She was a girl.
Can I make it?
Oh, this is this is the lyrics for what is it?
It's Avril Lavigne.
Why do you know an Avril Lavigne?
My sisters would listen to it constantly when I was growing up.
That makes sense.
Skated something.
Skated boy.
Is that the song?
One chat will know that too, because everyone here is sad.
Fate is a massive.
It's so confusing.
There are three female characters that all pretty much have the same design
and the relationship the characters have with each other is massively confusing.
Yeah, that's why you need just to play the visual novel.
Stick to the visual novel and the expanded universe.
Leave it alone.
Stick to the visual novel.
Hey, Wolf, is there any chance you'll still make that Cloverfield video,
like the series, not TCP though,
but still want your take on it?
I was going to make a Cloverfield video.
I was going to say it was a fist dive video.
I don't remember ever saying maybe I did.
I don't remember.
They're like, don't do the Cloverfield paradox.
Like, oh, yeah, everyone knows that's terrible.
Yeah, Cloverfield paradox.
Yeah, I mean, I don't really like any of the Cloverfield movies.
But I don't care enough.
Quinton Reviews is planning on making a B-movie review twice as long as the movie
for April Fools.
Take a guess at who he's probably going to make fun of.
Really?
Oh.
I thought he learned his lesson the first time he tried to parody me.
Oh.
Oh, Quinton.
Why would you want to talk about the B-movie for that long?
Well, he's trying to prove a point, right?
Why would you want to watch the B-movie in the first place?
Because it's a fucking amazing movie.
Just just watch the memes on YouTube.
It's good enough.
He doesn't learn lessons.
The awkward thing for Quinton in terms of our rogues gallery is like,
he had the like blatant misuse of lip for rags.
He's just like permanently a liar.
And then Tiaro confirmed that via relinquishing the idea of the script and everything.
He's just like, I just like the idea that he's going to try to make fun of me through that.
It's like, good for you, buddy.
Can you do an efap every page of Paul's reading of Interstellar Marines?
Well, I think we'd like kill ourselves halfway through the book.
Yes.
Wolf, I believe you've mentioned that you're reading through Lord of the Rings.
What edition do you have?
Oh, well, I'm not reading it right now.
I have read it.
Um, I have the I think it's the 50th anniversary edition.
It's like it's like black and leather bound.
It has the I think it's the Eye of Sauron on one side.
And then I don't know what it has on the other side.
And it's got like this big black case.
And it's got the Tower of Barad-
like an illustration of the Tower of Baradur on the other side of the case.
I really like it.
No pages are gold.
And it's got a nice little bookmark there.
It's a nice book.
You said I have the Millennium Edition, which has the original six books.
Tolkien wanted them to be split into before being forced into three books.
Let me see.
I don't know what the Millennium Edition is.
So LOTR Millennium Edition.
I do not have that edition.
Well, I don't know if you're going to get on that shit, dude.
I guess I do.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
Shut up, Appa.
I played the Fate Day Knight.
Yeah, I still forget the Rose Tico levels of Autistic.
Oh, well, if you put it on all caps, I guess I can see.
I guess I can see why.
I find it best to outline the entire plot.
Branch into multiple potentials as you do.
Plan it all loosely, then flesh it out and choose the final solution.
Wait, that came out wrong.
Wait, what do you do?
Oh, oh, I get it.
I see.
My mind is so clean.
I didn't even go there.
But yeah, that's actually it.
That's the last Super Chat.
So we did it.
It's been how long?
Four, I was an 18.
I knew it would take an hour to do these.
So you've always got to make sure we give full, chunky answers.
I suppose, first of all, Appa Band, would you like to maybe talk a bit about your channel
and why people in the chat should subscribe to you?
No, you shouldn't.
It's shit.
But this is great stream anyway.
So, goddamn, that's very low volume.
Don't subscribe to Appa Band, guys.
Yes.
I mean, you know, you could try and make them feel like babies.
We're not going to sell it to you, this guy.
No, no, I ain't selling my channel.
I'm just fucking shit.
You do do the kind of stream that people may be interested in, though, considering this one.
Okay.
You could go ahead.
Okay, fine.
I do weekly streams where I talk about memes and cringy stuff.
You should go watch it.
It sounds like a terrible chat.
Oh, thanks for the reminder of Vladimir.
Hey, Appa, who do you think is going to be the most inconsistent character of episode nine?
That's a very tough question.
I think every...
You cannot choose Lando or Kylo.
I cannot choose Lando or Kylo.
Oh, goddamn it.
They're disqualified because we already know the answer to that.
Goddamn it.
I'm betting on Rose, but that's too easy.
You can go with Rose.
Nobody's actually gone with Rose yet.
I'm betting on Rose, so that's too easy.
Is that because people...
I could also bet on R2-D2.
You could.
No one's gone for that either.
Yeah, I'll say that.
You want to go with R2-D2?
I really hope that there is a scene with C-3PO with a bowcaster because...
Would that not just be poetry if it turned out to be C-3PO of all the characters that
turned out to be the most inconsistent?
Guys, how did you fuck up this bet?
Oh my god, I'm getting Attack of the Clones flashbacks
when his head was literally screwed onto a battle droid.
Oh, yes.
Those are the good times, dude.
Yeah, that pretty much brings us to the end.
So, anything you guys want to say?
Happy April Fool's Day.
That hurt.
I suppose, are there other upcoming videos from either of you guys that you want to mention
that people should look out for?
Nothing upcoming.
Nope, April Fool's.
Damn, it's dead.
It's dead.
I got my April Fool's.
Coming out in time very soon.
You guys are going to love it, I'm pretty sure.
And then Captain Marvel video is coming out soon after, as soon as I get it done.
Other than that, thank you all very much.
What was the title of Wolf's Book?
Also, Great Stream.
I feel like the troll.
Iridescent.
The one with the white cover, just look it up.
There you go.
Thank you all for watching.
Thank you for the insane creativity to the level.
We have a 3D efap meme and plenty more to come of all sorts.
I'm going to watch that again.
I'm sure.
Thank you very much for the kind donations.
And like I said, for watching.
It's very good of you.
This will be uploaded for you.
Second channel, Moolah, if you didn't catch it.
And yeah, we'll be back next time whenever that might be.
Goodbye, everybody.
Farewell.
Dad.
I always spend that timing.
