I'm doing it
Episode 3
I Can't believe we've been so I need to get this timer in the top right of my screen to
Exactly seven hours at least and then me and Rags will have completed this journey. Wonderful
I'm just waiting for stream health to go green then I can knock this for some reason like I wasn't kidding
stream dashboard I can't keep the page open for longer than like 10 minutes
before it just like tisms my computer I don't know what's going on your tisms
not fair because I like this particular page it tells me things about my stream
okay so now that we're live let's address the elephant in the room go for
it where's my picture in the thumbnail I'm offended oh you're not in the
thumbnail rip feels bad but there's a couple people who did make it in I
actually tried to go through each of the the episodes and grab all I knew I'd
forgotten people's my bad I'm fucking it was hard to stuff the ones I had there
into like a semi comprehensible look at how bad I've got geeks and gamers in
there I chopped his I caught in half to try to show that he's like yeah he's
there no it's all good welcome back okay go ahead sorry no I was looking go
ahead died things taking time is probably good for this show considering
okay I'm stalling for time I see I don't know what you mean are we live no yes oh
good thank God I know Jesus Christ we've got a brand new cast for part three we
said our goodbyes to the previous guests and now we've got this frying
beige Pepe a pizza and Jay who's actually in the initial stream he's come
back for revenge just like I'm hoping fringy well I kind of like the idea that
they get a little little thing of magic return he's not picked up the fucking
phone yet because our manager is extremely unprofessional so he might have
been enjoying the ringtone oh yeah that's a good reason not to pick up I'd
say well he called me a lot he called me a large gay and he didn't pick up the
phone I can't believe it I'm actually almost some would say yeah so we got we
got memes to do and I figure this is a good lineup for memes cynic snacks is in
a lot of the memes thanks to his involvement with the creation of Goliath
and I've I've been around for probably less than 1% of efap I tend to make into
quite a few memes I like that I love the face people use of your
terrified face is fantastic yeah that's not even cannon someone's just made that
of me really I thought that was something that was taken from your video
is it not no someone's drawn that Wow adaptation of a face that I do have
but it's okay all right yeah so Jay's probably gonna jump in whenever he
feels like it you never know with that creature guy so have a look at this just
gonna line some things up and we've also gotten a couple submissions for the
bingo cards I'm gonna show like the length of the one that I don't know I
think works sort of the best right now especially because I was saying it would
be useful if he was interactive and so let us look at the remaining picture
memes I'm hoping to stay above these so they don't picture means fucking picture
memes everyone enjoy the picture means if we're fucking ready picture me oh my
goodness you know it's great the great thing about picture memes is that even
like deaf people can enjoy them mm-hmm so they're inclusive they're not like
privilege goggles seen that shit right yeah so you see that fucking I hope that
picture of rags pops up in more beams it came from him demanding to be more
handsome in the drawings I don't know the reference
like the other three pictures reasons why yeah I think so it's either that
one of those like schlocky Netflix teen bullshit thing oh so CJ will know which
one it is yeah he will I think it's 13 reasons why this is this I just want to
show this was one of the bingo things with this is cool right it's cool the
other one's gonna be a little bit cooler though because it has to be
interactive let's see we've got assertions with no evidence lots of big
transition cards with too long for pause genius or garbage Bilbo Baggins oh I
don't know about Bilbo Baggins yeah for that to come up they don't know Trump
that can happen this is really complex extra stylized animations weird fonts on
text stretching to point an awkward transition into sponsor reference a
random philosopher loud annoying music thanks to all my patrons these are
great I was gonna say this is a very good one but I was good the other ones
that eat cooler what are you doing cynic snacks fucking plate of beans are you
scraping hey I already told you I have to eat an apex great thing to bottom so
this fan art is fucking awesome look at this shit this is not happening on the
stream what do you mean oh this one is so good I love this so much this is
great I love it just to clarify this is happening on streams yeah people are
reacting to the 13 reasons why nobody's saying oh the streamers life
this is legit one of my favorites it's funny in the stream when I can hate all
of you so the dawn is the Sun it's wonderful you got me with like a the
outfit of trying to stay cooler while in the desert you're by the dawn we will
finish the 24 hours for all the guests co-host of you fat fucking wolf pizza
box is the cosmic chicken rhino milk rags looking exhausted and poor rhino as
well it's just fucking great is what I'm trying to get at is that some kind of
insect and andesite as well in a second rags no it's a spider in the no it's a
spider spider oracle spider oracle yeah you know of this
oh yeah there it is yeah Jay knows of it I really like your alternate leather
guys you say and aside is it what's it in the site oh I don't know what's an
embersite gravelly Minecraft and I know that's why I don't play games for
children I don't play space wizard games hey Minecraft is for autists of all
ages I'm I've never the how dearest this fan art is that person aware of the
19-hour stream you did or is that just a random mix up oh that so it's got a
speech bubble from saying 19 hours the interesting thing is the yeah does the
person who made this know about the fact that there's a meme running around with
my my initial fan base that I only made it to 19 hours in the first attempt at
doing a 24-hour stream I then went on to do a 26-hour one that was successful
them yeah I went two hours ahead of it but it'll be an interesting landmark to
get over 19 hours so 9 plus 8 leads us to that means I got to get past two
hours on this livestream to beat it so we're getting there oh yeah good
reference if that's what they were intending to do yes we got we got a we
got a meme here you check it out rags
ironic everything everything beautiful it's a good meme and in relation to
pouring so when a child is to pour milk in the cereal it's ironic I love the
idea just right just sees irony everywhere how could a child pouring
milk become ironic Oh couldn't it one if the child needed the milk to survive but
they're lactose intolerant oh the eye already run so Biggittiest Baggins and
if I thought elk fast I drink therefore I fart
Biggittiest Baggins and if I like how they got their breakfast guy in there
Biggittiest is a fucking wonderful philosopher and I want to see more of
him so much to learn from so context for this one is the Jim Sterling said he's
tired of oculus Evangel evangelists coming up to him and saying how
incredibly amazing it is that I guess someone did a rendition oculus privilege
goggles oh like he must does he get pissed off you know blind people can't
play video rags stop that thing he doesn't actually hold fast to a
principle it's just selective outrage Oh dude there's a part you'll fucking love
in his videos just because he has a small home and he's a large man that is
true for clarification right the video came out I want to say three years ago
two years maybe I really can't remember exactly but obviously before the epic
store stuff happened and Jim says in his video that another thing that VR is
gonna do is like splinter games into exclusives and what you'll have is
developers getting bought out into exclusive areas and like he basically
advocates for how bad of a thing that is like how games will be spread across
different areas and how we should not let that happen all right so he
understands that if there becomes a shortage of games and game developers
making traditional games that the system is sort of like designed to fill
that gap in like people will see people will see oh wait there's a shortage of
this boom we can make that thing you should honestly just just watch when you
get an opportunity the video is fucking terrible there's a reason we covered it
buddy game development software is available to basically anyone so if
there is any kind of gap or niche in the market that isn't filled some independent
developers gonna provide yeah something I mean look at you have most of the
games that I play now are like double A's and indies yeah same it's such a
there's no principle behind it it's so selective this is adorable I have no
problem going after Jim last time it worked out in my favor and he didn't he's
fucking folded on epic already people people in chat was saying you because we
will point out the hypocrisy but we were covering him in the beginning of
part one and people like infamous he did a video recently saying epic a terrible
it's like yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I know he was fucking wrong when he made
this grew steam video he just Jim still it doesn't matter point being this is
cute and I appreciate it's great fan is that video still up where he says screw
steam as far as I know check someone said a blind man took a decade or so to
beat Legend of Zelda time nice well video games are so very inclusive what
we've noticed by the way and a lot of the fan art with the 50th stream is I
canonically now have white gloves I've this been added into separate fan arts
separately like these fan arts I don't know if they were necessarily influenced
by each other but it seems to be that I have white gloves as a definite thing
this is the 1920s Disney character mm-hmm yeah this is the rags and rags is
one is in his PFP but we got one as well go I just little little mules lee and so
alright so this is the the thing I was talking about I guess this is like an
actual service that runs or whatever and you can edit this but I just thought
it was really cool so you can actually process on this
good shit that's really cool yeah that could come in handy don't cry in your
diapers I'm not 100% sure the condescending opinion there's gonna be
opening sorry you don't cry in your diapers pulling a theme or motif from a
tiny detail yeah Bilbo how is bill people don't typically use Bilbo Bay he's
ours but I think I understand what it means like a reference to the thing that
doesn't make any fuck it says skill share square pit space etc so you
audible could probably go in there video clip taken out of context yeah I
think that's fair transition cards with too long of a pause you know extra
stylized animations so like Mark Brown stuff I'm gonna guess without redrafted
this X times we don't typically find that with a lot of videos they don't tend
to share that's because they don't do you remember the guy we covered fucking
ages ago rags who said like I've redrafted this like 11 times also like
yeah he did he did the plot holes thing mm-hmm yeah he was in the snow and one
of his animations didn't have the arm colored in yeah I remember weird fonts
on text assertions with no evidence yep lots of big complex weird fonts on text
then we would never have beginning thanks to all my patrons reference a
random philosopher click baity video title MCU reference when it's not the
MCU yeah I think that's actually fair these days you'll find it MCU reference
is pretty common random rant about Trump themes it's really complex love
doesn't run about Trump actually occur often I feel like that's just turn that
into a Trump jab or an political rant of some kind you could probably say yeah I
think that should be more I would I wouldn't I'd say you could get even more
specific and say it's like it's directly against Trump or anti-fash yeah
like a like a an anti anything that isn't far left yeah because we know
that there's either anti moderate left plus yes you're a Nazi basically and
then you got reference a random piece of meteor and I assume that's like
inappropriate reference rather than cuz like everyone references meteor in a
meteor analysis for I imagine but no video footage contradicting the current
point that was one of those fucking common ones that exists honestly it's so
amazing how much that happens controversial hot take random video
footage in there well that one too yeah look in unsuitable slash contradictive
because I love it what is contradictive it's like my favorite fucking thing
that ever happens because it's usually like trailer looped footage that they
say something into the background the opposites happening they're like oh fuck
be a controversial hot take is that supposed to be in quotations or are
they suggesting like a really fucking bad hot take like Infinity War was pro
Trump like okay genius or garbage yes like the highest and most and fluff
sentence that doesn't say anything pardon my ignorance but is the president
of the US ever depicted in the MCU yes and what do they look like Iron Man 3
oh wait sorry you were asking if the if the president is ever in the MCU yeah
Iron Man 3 as the president yeah I thought you're actually asking if Trump
was no no but how is the president depicted in the MCU what kind are they
what do they look like oh just average build 50 ish year-old guy okay white
yeah okay he's the only one we've ever been shown I think but yeah this could
totally be used I probably want to tweak it here and there and I think I can with
this site but yeah good stuff like it um and with that should be able to take us
finally to video memes of which we have a truckload and I've made a new watch
together I'll send you folks the linkaroo right there this last meme in
the eFap memes is the one we've shown before I don't know I don't have to
check that show my phone now oh yeah that's right I'll be fucking up the
screen for you funny pandas epic laughs no that's not really an epic love
how ironic how ironic of you to say ironic rain on your wedding day or a
free ride when you've already paid yeah she cry so I'm gonna use to collect you
kidding me oh my goodness I got a bail in me okay give me a sack guys I gotta
collect more shit consciousness and June and you'd think this one screen and I
hate it
I will click the German things that he has limited power
Oh
Rags is actually German that would be a plus that is German for clench your sleep
there oh so tight I could not fit the tiniest of strud did you just say the
tiniest of strudels I might be having that Star Wars kill jump in I'm not 100%
sure right now hey Rags why would you randomly shout a number that way oh he
said nine one two three four five six seven oh I didn't I said I said I said not
I did not say nine what did you say Rags clarify for the audience I said say no
okay I'm gonna wait until I get pinged a bit more I suppose that's the past tense
of ping is pong pong but if you're currently pinging that's called pong to
have been pong yeah like when you've been awake for as long as Rags has you
start to lose your mind all right it's totally wrong I can still form
coherent thoughts and sentences and ideas I can understand concepts sounds
pretty ironic as they come big go hey hey don't you me I'm sorry I got four four
new off the presses memes I got it we gotta explore them or else what if they
start to you know all cup and stuff explore them explore them you heard me
mine better so that's this first one all right what's our meme that we have
beholds big idiots I like the idea that one day someone's gonna be like you mean
big ideas no companion testicles interview someday and someone's gonna so
what was that about big idiots oh he's an ancient Greek philosopher don't worry
about it no make me beautiful you're too talented to not make me beautiful and
then I guess Baywood wanted to throw the interpretation in as well Rags do you
consider this beautiful oh yeah look at me I'm so beautiful with my
eight teeth he's just a flippin and floppin now that that is um that is the
sweet nectar of life straight from the tap drinking while on the job metal
really look at me I'm so fucking beautiful dear Christ now this is good
rat first off this is good right yeah this is good rat this is why this is why
I'm always portrayed as a woman there's a rumor out there that says I'm not
trans you know I want to stamp that shot I want to stamp that out that shot what
I want to stamp that shit out right now like a like a brush fire all right
who's who's not in the watch together we're missing a human I'm in one for a
funny pandas epic laughs I don't know if that's the right one well there's five
of us and I only see four names so I'm someone's fucking up I blame one of you
I'm just saying I believe that Bayouin has succeeded where others could not is
okay I just think I just want to make that clear so five people in there for me
by the objective standard of quantity of titties Bayouins art always wins so we
got a lot of videos to get through I'm gonna link them all once the stream is
over in the efap meme section just big ol big ol Irish family just sucking on
those couldn't you human breasts well they look they look far too well they're
sort of here they're sort of human I was just gonna ask what kind of genitalia do
you have your dog genitalia or a human genitalia I mean look that's a very
personal question I mean it's I mean answer the yeah first off that is
extremely you can't just ask a trans person whether genitals kind of fucked
up Jay what nothing I know we sailed the same it's kind of true
to try to sound like Jay no oh no I said he did I didn't say succeeded I said he
was trying that's why I was asking if I if I agreed with it then I would have
just ran with it I wouldn't have questioned it but I did question it okay
like so wait is there a video that's set up for everybody here right now it's not
and as because like I said for me it's only four people in the thing but if all
of you can see it then fuck it I guess watch together just to me but anyway so
this was played in the intro and I just want to play it now to appreciate how
cool it is there's gonna be three of these ones but hey fuck it
and I can play it with no worries about copyright it's wonderful
Wow so good so fucking cool that that is amazing then it just legit amazing and
it just combos up like look how many memes there are it's like doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo
machine gun beams you've got Bilbo Baggins first machine which you have
built upon which we stand bringing into the Senate to their cherished fleet
hello there ladies and gentlemen welcome to a critique of styles the last Jedi
that's my quote but there's no reason not to farm writers because they produce
you learn just because it is better that's actually impressive I want to
know how they got that so great but you remember that one the Captain America's
the parachute we said what if it just awkwardly fell the crowd you have the
efap lady there it's it's too fucking cool and then you know not to let's
take away from it the two of these were made simultaneously without being aware
of each other I believe and so this was the second one well they're both the
same one
hello all my inwards the reason to not start my nose oh they're using the thing
okay
oh man this is wild epic as shit wild again the amount of work that would have
gone into these oh my god amazing stuff three hours of dude just ask me I'll
give you the if you're good if you want to you send me a message on discord or
email I'll give it to you man that's crazy give what given more sorry like
it like because I asked how long it's because he had the pho's amorous's
intro there the the dancing dog and it had no background to it and I know he
must have pulled it from the video and then spent time with each frame
animating out the background or keyframing it or something or masking it
and I was like holy shit like that must have taken a lot of time to do because
no one actually out there except for me and pho's amorous have the original files
that are transparent backgrounds so I was like man that's crazy yeah just um
message me if you ever want anything and I'll give you the originals if just use
them for want to use them for memes see that's crazy oh it's just fucking
wonderful it's both of these were wonderful like I said it feels like a
stroke from fucking Jesus himself that allowed it so that we did have any
copyright issues for this like I don't even I didn't know that was possible but
it is we just play these because it sucks how much these would be affected
if they were to be broken up you know I mean yeah good shit like a thing where
you had like a discord channel or something with all of like the
transparent on it for meme makers yeah well if you go through the the the all
of the stuff we have access to is posted into a fat memes essentially that
everyone is created outside of like are we Commission I suppose and though as
far as the only I've technically Commission would be from all like the
fap logos and stuff which I think people already have access to as in they're no
different than what you see on screen so yeah the fap see you I guess is what you
could call yeah looking wonderful work and then so this one me and Rags I've
seen this like a bazillion times because we love it this is also played in the
intro this is the last from the intro of part one anyway
the budget Marimba cover yeah hello hello there hi how are you you spot the
fucking we've got a quid to the background with a target practice shot
hello hi I was laying down as one does getting a little getting a little
horizontal you know yeah just lounging reclining and I got kind of tired and I
fell asleep and there was light outside and it was time for efap oh anyway fuck
you there's so much here look at the background of that one there's a book
with a picture Patrick Willems on it that just says cunt no no we're gonna go
we'll go over those last bit yeah so okay we'll look at both way the frame
we got to get is we'll look at the first one right here so we can everyone can
see a good shot of the whole set right right now yeah okay yeah so top left you
got a poster for efap of course go and go going across then you go tie when the
apex homosexuals this is an up-to-date meme of course and a good old cup of
rhino milk I'd imagine the dawn who is our savior as you can see one of his
hands is fucked up because of Captain Marvel right John's and bobblehead again
just fantastic that you got wolfs rhino milk of course the cosmic chicken sitting
proudly on top of the globe and cycling down you got a little Jack St. troll doll
beautiful a book with tonaled on the front of it this is an illustrated
encyclopedia of artificial barriers of blockage
going left slice of dice obviously an important book probably written by Major
Lee that iridescent and the Tolkien books for wolf uh that is Jack I can't quite read
what's on there have you guys got it the Jared one fall of an angel ah on the right is that what
is fall of an angel I think so yeah then you got Patrick Willems book that just says cunt
um the top 10 I assume ways techniques techniques for milking right techniques
yeah and then Goliath and the cosmic chicken a book that obviously uh covers it all what I
really love is as you can see just behind me is a little Buffy doll she's even got a steak
for killing vampires and you can't see it like as soon as uh I get up fully she's not in the
whole thing so it's like a little easter egg uh then Rags bull with his rhino milk that of course
the rhino sitting at the foot of the bed almost halfway up cycling around you got Bilbo still
tied up as is become lore thanks to the Knights of Ephab too I think and wolf is sleeping with
his book of Dr Seuss's 100 Edwards notice notice that the cat in the hat is black
I don't think that's a cover if that is how it's like another character name I can't remember what
it is um because I don't know shit about Dr Seuss on the chest right yeah I can't I can't remember
what it is someone in chat um notice how you're wearing your white gloves again yes it's another
instance of the white gloves um there must just be one like the foot you need to track down the first
depiction of you with white gloves on because that will be the source of it also people have
gone to it for reference the stream is definitely up right so for me I've got 1500 viewers but chat
is extremely slow and I don't know if anything's wrong is everything fine but I mean like we just
had two comments it's like hmm it's chat scrolling by here's one there's one yeah it's going by
steadily yeah just making sure everything's okay that's all I didn't know as long as the stream's
up it's all good um yeah we're good fucking great I know I didn't get an notification for it that's
why I didn't know it was up getting a little getting a little horizontal you know yeah just
skeleton again yeah it was skeleton in this version as well um and yeah the Buffy doll is
covered up like I said reclining and I got kind of tired wolf pulls the blanket over sleep then
when I woke up everything was different it was later and we've even got a spider heading down
to rags his milk yeah there was light outside and it was like a little little
anyway wait that's got it that can't be a a coincidence spider becomes the
apartment oh yeah I guess the spider kind of looks like the apostrophe there that's got to be on
papers I think the apostrophe was there before though wasn't it oh let's just I'll suck it back
quickly no no it just came down yeah it wasn't there before the spider became the apostrophe
spider became the apostrophe and I got kind of tired and I fell asleep then when I woke up
everything was different it was later and there was light outside and it was time for efap oh
anyway fuck you such a massive I think that's fair enough
terrible people something that makes it so funny is just how tiny rags is yeah
yeah look how adorable he is this bit now it's like we're all just sleeping
this is how it's gonna be after the stream
the sound makes us so great yeah fantastic work uh we love it very good and now the the the
cavalcade of videos that half of these I haven't even watched ahead of time and they're all kinds
of different this first one is called James Moore bribes efap um I hope that none of these
have been played previously as well I hope I don't fuck that up very well it's time for your bribe
now you can either have the washer and dryer with a lovely smithers is standing
either super chat or you can trade it all in for what's in this box wow
that was me repository as well
that was like seamless yeah no they they get pretty fucking good at this shit it's shocking
why are people so talented I know it's not fair okay we don't get to be amazing at everything
yeah jay explain if anyone is new here okay so this one's called oh molly you sweet summer child
and I have seen this one is kind of funny so this is from my Outlast series check out what I'd say
if anyone is new here and would like to support what I'm doing then please check out my patreon
page I will update it without fail every two weeks to let you know what the newest project
is currently looking like the link will be in the description and for every penny added it will
increase my overall speed of production one day I might even be able to finish a series within a
month
oh hi also hi
yes uh the tfa sequence is taking a little longer than expected
my cheek sent me high my with me high chick sent me high
this is uh you're a nazi another meme for efap okay
you're a nazi but wolf there's gas in there now they're all too concerned with trying to escape
some dickhead
oh
once again this is recorded
okay if wolves call in efap loritat is I think it's confirmed to that point
um this is called uh efap meme homecoming haters homecoming is an objectively bad movie
mj isn't the same as the comics wrong man bad ree
fact that the text to speech was an australian woman australian women hate homecoming dude
but what does it mean this one's called uh they're reviewing her
yes now they're gonna review me
they're eating her
and then they're going to me
I was going to say captain bob will already go fucked up by efap
utterly legendary moment in an incredible film undeniably um this is this is from south pool
uh most people don't know what a y-wing is
most people do not know what a y-wing is
I'm gonna have to pause obviously because this shit is copyrighted
no no no no no no no no no
oh yeah spoiler alert by the way everyone oh right well I mean fucking hell
were you never gonna see endgame people fuck face everyone knows what a fucking y-wing is
anyone that's watched star wars knows what a fucking y-wing is it's been here since the first
fucking movie released 40 fucking years ago I love the idea I am not as ripping into Thanos for
saying that like don't tell me that people don't know what a fucking y-wing is you disingenuous
I like it uh this one is called what's a y-wing he said that oh no one knows what a y-wing is
yeah what is that I've never heard it's one of those aliens from the
like the the canteen or whatever in the first one yeah that's like oh yeah camp kirk it's the
emperor's theme in there it is captain kirk so yeah this one this is called Quinton's monologue
an e-fab meme and I'm not sure what game this is from someone's gonna do better than I will is it
mauler
hey they got the back of me as well
do you feel I really do but let's be honest you know in your heart
fear not Disney will not forget you
the stars you've gouged into is spell out your name for all to see
I confess I was happy to take credit for your victories did you ever stop to wonder
what that says about you but so many bought what I was selling
they called me a monster and you are hero the world expects
ryan johnson
star wars movie
the life force of this world
oh no tro
marvel movie
perhaps they will finally thank me for luring you to me
so that I may save the world from you
and once you're gone everyone will flock to my embrace he will all love me
infamous social justice warrior quinton reviews
fuck you
that was weird what's that from uh someone said guild wars 2 in shadow soul I I think
it might be from I was gonna guess that because that plays into the plot huh all right spoiler
alert yes uh this is well this guy gets wolf kills this person in go wars 2 yeah wolf kill
uh this is called short man good
I'm rags but my friends call me
oh exciting oh it's the German ass oh fuck let's get this over with
with two asses
get your nigga ass away from my white boy y'all be racist and shit
I don't remember doing that but okay I think the shining shit shut the fuck up
I don't think
I think that yeah I think that was totaled um and the pipe it was in there as well
pikeman yeah the earth is a weird grape and that's one of the other two I like it that's so good
so this would be is there oh the rhino is on the left as well
like the fallout I think a lot of a lot of effort went into making all those original
surprises I fucking love it when rags his head giving me the long man
that is impressive eight minutes my lord this is what happens when I can't bet I have no
idea what to expect it's called efab the movie prologue god speed man
hey halo yeah yeah halo which halo game is this which means I don't have to worry about copyright
beginning of halo too I think gedel the 10th age of reclamation
god halo was so good I can't wait till it's on steam
why are you sure yes they called it a pillar of autumn the dawn abides why was it not
destroyed with the rest of their feet it fled as we set fire to the planet
reach home world of total blood
come on when you first saw halo were you blinded by its majesty blinded paralyzed
dumbstruck no yet the humans were able to evade your ships land on the sacred ring wow
surely you understand that once the parasail attack
you were right to focus your attention on the flood
this demon this master chief by the time I learned the demons in death there was nothing I could do
truth this has gone on long enough make an example of this bungalow of this rhino bilka
you are one of our most treasured instruments long have you led your feet with honor and
esteem but your inability to safeguard halo was a colossal failure it was
heresy
I will continue my campaign against the humans no you will not
what's going to happen to me yeah I don't know
I'm very invested in this narrative does the weight of your heresy will stay your feet
and you shall be left behind
six months after the troi fab plating was about to fail there's viscosity here on the gel layer
optics totally fried and let's not even talk about the power supply
you know how expensive this gear is son
I can't wait to get more on that
and I remember playing this how bad is it bad we just lost contact with two of our deep space
animals there's something massive on long-range scary is this what shepherd warned us about
I'd stake my life on it
how long do we have
not long I sent word the fleets immobilizing
god help us all Fred help us all
so
massive council captain marvel
god hiding in the Philippines the gedel barbie is ready to strike the fate of the galaxy rest with it
so
Filipino
the dawn's off in it
this is a mass effect now right commander yeah you're not supposed to call me that anymore James
not supposed to salute you either we gotta go the defense committee wants to see you
sounds important
what's going on couldn't say just told me they needed you now
Anderson yeah admiral you look good
I just love the idea of a deer is like a full-on character in the universe
but it's important to the vet
we'll get it sorted out what's going on why is everyone in such a hurry
admiral hackett's mobilizing the fleets I'm guessing words made it to alliance command
something big's headed our way the reapers we don't know not to say what else could it be
if I knew that
it's the reapers and we're not ready for not by a long shot tell that to the defense committee
unless we're planning to talk the reapers to them the committee they just scared none of them have
seen what you've seen yeah lots of these cutscenes like a blast from the past man
especially hilo too man you've seen how they harvest us what they plan to do
you know more about this enemy than anyone is that why they grounded me took away my ship you know
that's not true when you blew up the batarian relay hundreds of thousands of batarians died
it was that or let the reapers walk through our back door I'd slaughter the orphans and so does
the committee it wasn't that that you'd have been court martialed and left to rot in the brig
that and your good word yeah I trust you and so does the committee I'm just a soldier Anderson
I'm no politician I don't need you to be idle I just need you to do whatever the hell it takes
to help us stop the reasons they're expecting you to admiral
good luck in there shepherd
I would fall Hitler who has recently reformed his right gains word coming invasion from the
gedel barbie and the reapers quickly he calls the council to plan how to repel the invasion
once quinted at the oh where my failure
so we're to believe that halo mass effect Hitler or like intertwined to this universe
it's like yep
this is a by the way battle is this confusing for you to read subtitles that are completely wrong
super confusing right now yeah nothing adds up right now
continue to part one because that was a prologue all right we'll have to see where that goes I guess
I just realized I let a lot of the Hitler part play this good good chance of copyright on that
one but hopefully we survive copyrighted Hitler copyrighted Hitler who owns the copyright to Hitler
is it Disney oh it's me most probably that scene's been memed quite a lot though it might
oh yeah yeah you might be okay um this is called tonaled and the dawn test who is more powerful
got uh total's got the artificial sword of stabbage
stabbage
he's got this shield proof sword
I'm definitely gonna have to pause
oh
lucky the efap crew of the orphans escaped great power collision of 2019 on the
borledium falcon and no it was here oh good play fat crew in orphans oh my god the orphans made it
oh yeah
ripped jay god but already forgotten
he's in heaven now pants yeah that's jay's look how could you say that
homeless yes
he was supposed to say no no no I'm defending my friend jay he wants to look homeless
isn't that right jay well he probably won't get robbed um oh shit this was das bullshit's meme
I meant to show this while das bullshit was still here I'll have to I mean he'll see this
of those but basically right uh fringy it's a video unavailable
lay back on other websites been disabled by video owner that's bullshit what are you doing
how are we supposed to show people this um I assumed yes I can I mean if it works
it's only 22 seconds we could just all play it at the same time on youtube yeah it's only 22
seconds we can do that yeah it should be protected copyright he's got a lot of stuff on screen
for it so okay give me one six comments are disabled no no all right uh is everybody mostly
ready on zero hang on I am I am I am three two one go boop he brought fringy's meme to life
oh my god
it's actually gary save that's all
I was 15
oh that's great excellent work das bullshit that is good that is good stuff uh so this is
another take on the um the y-wings comment from just right with a different movie reference
it's partly because most people do not know what a y-wing is and even fewer know what
is
awesome partly because most people do not know what a y-wing is
and
okay
okay first off fuck face everyone knows what a fucking y-wing is anyone that's watched star wars
knows what a fucking y-wing is here how perfect this is it's been here since the first fucking
movie released 40 fucking years ago don't tell is wolf's face supposed to be all the way down
but sometimes is it supposed to be a badge it started off as his head and now i think it's a
nipple face nipple i think he's lost his head i think it might just been a basket fuck up and
vegas can do this to you well depending on what he's using that people don't know what a fucking
y-wing is you disingenuous baggett what's the fuck oh yeah now it's definitely a badge surely
make that argument everyone knows what it is it's been in every game it's been in every movie okay
maybe not every movie maybe not every game but most games in most movies this is so stupid how could
you possibly make this argument you fucking idiot everyone knows what it is this fits up perfectly
i love it wonderful uh that's good that's a good place for it this is called
olf rants over rags leaking their secret sex tape hashtag
we traced the person who leaked the sex tape this location is determined that rags leaked
the sex tape and fucked up its distribution
what i have seen you just for me fuck me this is so confusing
no rags i'm not bad just tell me why you did it please
i linked it because you wouldn't hate fuck me i want to get revenge on you for punching me
um
i'm gonna pause one thing i actually i didn't check it i meant to it was just a
part one should have processed by now and i'm curious if uh the intros have actually worked
so just give me one second they should be there i think it's process they just need a moment
okay we still got a shit ton of videos left this is the efap life you know
oh yeah they are still there i'm also getting paid while doing this is living the dream yeah
so part one has fully processed and is available in the unlisted form i will get them up on mooler
as soon as i can but i probably will be going to sleep once we reach our designated time systems
management all right you guys it'll get so it's metal
uh
i should just put the chat for this
it was so mean
What just fucking would be resolved?
Successfully.
Huh, I can't tell you.
Stop!
Wethe shure there.
I will die.
roughly.
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
I don't know why that's referring to a
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
That's from Halo 2.
Ah.
Efaba movies on the way subbed to Efaba gang gets psyched for Efaba 50.
This is Efaba 50, dun, dun, dun.
Hashtag no sleep on the Efaba.
We are one hour in, six remaining.
Oh my god, no.
Gonna be sad when Efaba 50 comes to an end.
It's been such a journey.
Oh, I feel, oh wow.
This one's called Fat Asian Bitch, and I believe it's a reference to that podcast thing that
we showed.
So Rags and B definitely know this one.
This guy named Dishonored Wolf, you know what I mean?
He calls her Fat Asian Bitch.
Shitty point.
This review.
And it's a white dude saying it, because you can tell.
It's terrible.
It's fucking terrible.
Especially when that's copy written for your mom, you know what I mean?
If you've seen the original, this is pretty great.
This is great.
Do you remember fucking, what do they call him, Mexican Mario?
I can't remember.
Come on, dude.
You do that kind of shit to me all the time.
What fucking podcast is that?
Why am I alive, dude?
I don't even true EFAP lore beavers will fucking know the origin of that shit.
I don't know what their podcast was.
I think it was the Legal Eagle EFAP that we actually covered it.
It's brilliant, and it's too hard to explain.
I love that one.
This one's called...
Peter Meets Mysterio.
Again, didn't vet these.
I have no idea what this is.
So, here's the thing.
I fucking hate Trump.
Because he's called Quinton Beck, right?
Or Quinton Beck.
That's actually pretty well put onto his face, by the way.
Yeah, that is good.
I like the long shot, like pretty seamless.
I fucking hate Trump.
Could have improved the movie.
You know, he thinks he's a hero.
This is called Allen, EFAP meme.
Richard J Allen.
I forgot the end of middle name thing.
Allen.
It's such a garbage reference, and I love it.
They're like, was there a movie where there weren't allons?
This is called EFAP in Space.
Cable space program?
Oh, helmet, yeah.
I already have enough helmets.
No, there isn't.
Details.
I had the Welsh flag on me, I think.
Oh, helmet.
Yes, the dragon's here.
The wolf's got a pizza.
No, there is never enough helmets.
You're pathetic.
You're subhuman, honestly.
We're just carbon, dude.
We're all just things.
That's a long ass walk.
Look at that.
Beep boop bop bop.
Started up.
We're ready to kill.
What are your feelings to our success rate?
Um, cautiously optimistic.
Come on, girl.
That's great.
Let's go.
Three, two, one.
Welcome to happy, happy fun time.
What?
Thanks.
I explained later.
For now, I need to not die.
Right click on the home screen,
and then go to these playsticks.
That was fucking great.
There you go to about.
Oh my god, we really should have written it down.
Oh, I found it.
Oh.
Worthless play.
That's like all the people who are like Halo five.
I got a purple dick.
I know what that means, but I agree with it.
It's funny because Quentin's fat.
Rex is giving you the doggo gaze.
Of course.
Why not?
I'm a sassy power bottom and you know it.
Some people might think that half of the dialogue is pretty random,
but really the overarching theme here.
Life is random.
So is everything we do.
Theme.
Little things that take your movies to the next level.
The theme subtitles off.
Open the door.
Oh, yeah, I forgot.
All right, steady, slow and easy.
You're a weird man.
Here we go.
I suppose.
Oh, God is going to be a nightmare.
The giant alien cow thing that Luke Milks is one of my favorite additions to this
whole series.
This stupid shit.
Why did you just have a missile?
Prepare Uranus.
Unaltered footage.
After firing blind, reloading and readjusting the camera several times,
I finally hit the target.
That's the payoff.
It only got worse from there, so I thought I'd share my paid this way.
I completely fuck up the pacing.
Thanks, KSP.
You're doing great.
I don't want to be friends with you.
It was a fun run while it lasted.
The toxic brood will never be defeated.
Blah, blah, blah.
OK, you guys can come and pick me up now.
Guys.
I think you need a little.
Apparently we do play different games.
Apparently.
I mean, I read all the books and the comics and the manga.
You have absolutely not.
God be one for seven.
You need a ride, darling.
Though the darlin' wall of beganneth an epic journey through the galaxy to help
every space orphaned need, and maybe they foundeth the cosmic chicken and gained
infinite earth, wisdom, bilbocilius, zwackalbaggins.
Zwackalbaggins.
Zwackalbaggins.
I like Zwackalbaggins.
Ordinated by Mm.
M. Shulk, I guess.
Rocketism.
Rocketism dynamics.
Paint by Microsoft.
That's awesome, dude.
Go put that together.
It's really creative.
You've got to.
Fucking hell.
I was going to say, you've really got to appreciate the effort that's gone into
like pulling the audio clips that were relevant.
FAP three eight ten nineteen twenty twenty two twenty six twenty nine thirty
three eight forty one forty seven.
Gaming one and two one and three.
And then several individual videos.
It's been a while since we had a gaming one.
We need to sort that out.
I keep saying that.
And then we don't.
We will do it eventually.
This one is cool.
I've got a dip.
I need to go catch a train.
No problemo.
It was fun having you around.
Good luck with the rest of the memes and the rest of the streams.
Enjoy your train.
Thanks.
Bye, guys.
Goodbye.
Bye, pizza man.
All right.
This one's cool.
This one's called Ifab meme Mihai Cheek sent Mihai.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
You want to see this one or?
Well, I mean, I'm in it.
Yeah.
You probably had a few.
Go for it.
Mihai, Mihai, Mihai, Mihai.
I guess they synced all of us on that.
Mihai, Mihai.
He looks like the stock image guy.
Mihai Cheek sent Mihai.
Ah, get out your bagels and one more time.
Good shit.
Okay, bye.
All right.
Bye.
The Simpsons references are strong.
The next one is the Simpsons reference.
This one is so long critical drinking.
We have to talk about something called reader response theory.
You're watching movies wrong.
I'm guessing Jay is going to drop a pencil into my ass.
If this meme goes the way Simpsons does.
Geode.
Yes.
I'm not kidding.
We actually have to have a talk.
reader response theory you're watching movies wrong Don would never think that
way so the desolation of smaug efap meme using the Hobbit for memes now I want to
highlight how long it would take to do just what we've seen in that five
seconds to mask each of those pictures to have them follow these things are
hard to do guys I'm just destroying everything by accident I forgot this
happens in the hobbit epic escape what are these films movies yeah there were
three of them the Hobbit movies have unlimited they were something to watch
I'll tell you that money where make sure you see Lord drinks first object god
damn it aids since called Spooder Wars an efap meme spider-man homecoming was a
good movie
yep that's me you're probably wondering how I ended up in this situation well it
all started on continued in part all right there is a part two to this who
I'm excited now there's a narrative voter wars and efap meme last time on
Spooder Wars yep that's me you're probably wondering how I ended up in
this situation well it all started on part two tell me you love me I like
being bad it makes me happy God is moving oh yeah I have to pause this
little baby so hilariously out of play
just straight it's got a doopie spider-man face
it's so dead bad this whole thing is so dead but I love it oh my goodness oh what
is it just a Pokemon last time okay oh is there a part three I didn't have that in
my selections continued in part three I'll check if he's got a part three
yeah he's definitely got two version there's one important Oh Spooder Wars
part three yes
spood wars spood wars it was and then this one called the pit which was a
bit eight hours ago on spoon previous that explains anything for anyone who's
not caught up you like what
is it deflosaurus whatever the poison one he's like going through all the sounds of
the original Jurassic Park time to say fucking stop you vampires 12 seconds later pizza time
I missed the part where that's my problem
what is this fucking insanity this is a fab related by the way
we're about to say show this to a real person I was gonna say if deprivation is coming through
okay okay this is the pit from the same creators no imagine
table you said Batman is a symbol of Batman they take a lot of it out of you you know
like okay what we got a fab legend from smiling if that legends daddled defeats Goliath this
adult defeats glad we've not seen this previously this would be breaking new ground you don't know
this visual ultimate chaos before time began the same guy like I like this trend it's good
artificial what is this from by the ways I don't know is it like a dragon ball Z thing
oh yeah that would be like a dragon ball mubes believe rag off rag a little since boy but not
geode man geode man is that a canonical spelling there is literally no correct way to do it you
still keep trying every time everyone's just trying to get to the correct way this is the
history of efap 10 from our main man pre-machieve the context here is it's kept to bubble is a
torturing slash killing using the dawn to spread blue goo throughout the universe I don't know
more more context than that okay you will not gay world you have to vowels blue cream
what greater meaning can life possibly have to offer for the record I love the Guardians
of the Galaxy movies just wanna say that this is just making me think I've got to watch this
movie again I don't use objectivity to make my videos done I use my heart that was a super chat
that what if you read that out I remember oh that's what that was for Becky hanging out
with free rags wall this is already saved us from the trolls in the previous
oh my gosh oh my gosh I'm like I'm actually what it said for what he's gonna do next do it dawn
you shouldn't have killed Becky install my motorcycle now that's custom smile for me
yeah I gotta watch that fucking song I wonder what what would be voted the most like it's
probably rhino milk right the king of the memes but it's like a super artificial barrier blockages
and fucking everything the dawn though yeah the daughters of the really strong memes stay
in power to do a whole bilge because the cream is there a kind of pole that lets people out
their announces I think there is I don't know what it is cold though Oh Bragg's gonna detonate
so it's what's up with you how to do it history of efap has come a long way Wow can you believe that
what's the way that we can get a poll where we care what people in the poll can add their own
answers and then other people can vote for those answers that people have added because that's what
we need right now you might just want to gather like the top 10 maybe yeah we could probably a
crowdsource the actual options as in we just asked chat what are the most common memes in between us
we could probably create the poll here I'll actually get one started all right type question
here what is the apex in fact mean all right so we'll do let's put cosmic chicken the dawn
we'll do to life rhino milk art if artificial barriers of blockage rhino no burn own old bill
bone old tonaled spider spiders spider gold massive a tonaled and slowneld separator no yeah
we'll keep them the same person we'll keep them together all right massive so let's do oh hello my
words orphans orphans yeah midair orphans midia that's 12 we can keep going and we need to
just general racism is a meme yeah that's why it's a me oh yeah that's right rag apostrophe yes
oh long man bad oh yeah I mean bad I got massive spider-man coming on in bed how did it take us this
long to get to long man bad as well hey man it's hard to keep track of all say man is coming out
yep vote twice twice high trash what is it Oh voted twice yeah let's see Kyle Ben Kyle but yeah I
don't think we vote oh gee means yes should we put sexual harassment Oh apex homo you gotta have apex
homo we gotta throw them all in what about reader response theory oh reader response theory sort of
faded out of popularity oh the middle the middle middle anyways guys anyway that one's a dead
wood as well like Bilbo Bilbo slice and dice hello to rags hi rags yep this is a very odd
collection would you look at it together we quitted in general yeah what makes good rat
what makes good the blessed pikeman I could definitely be counted pacify you to death I
know where that's from um pizza pizza we went from top 10 Oh John Adams telling spider oh yeah well
we've had spiders right I kind of encompasses yeah well we'll put him in I'll put I'll go up
to spider oracles and I'll do slash John Adams because he's kind of attached to that yeah like
that's an e-pat meme on its own Luke looks like the middle-aged lesbian that's not much fun
narrative tripling oh wolf pizza I guess me saying who wrote this you get to look at wavin
oh that's definitely frugal we could probably cut off there just to see what the results are gonna
look yeah that's that's 30 so okay yeah okay so it's a straw poll by the way they can people
vote more than once because with that many means people should be able to yeah make it multiple
choice yeah allow multiple options it doesn't let me could you guys limit it to your top three please
no more than three is there's no way for me to double check it but um just try try to stick to
your top three well if you just because the way it'll work right because we'll have so many people
voting that if they all vote for their particular favorites it'll eventually sort into a full list
of the most chosen to these chosen they're still right I will create a poll I will give you the link
right there that is the straw poll so if you would like to put that in um well I guess I can do it
because yeah your mod you can just spam it I'm pretty sure you'll let you all right I'm gonna
do my vote as well um so well if it's the apex efap meme yeah like hmm no which ones I'll be
choosing just vote vote for your vote for the best ones uh try not to try to be you know don't
vote on all of them you know this is kind of hard to choose it's like picking between children you know
quitted is just I like I'm gonna go with the dawn you get to look at women um yeah the dawn
and goliath yeah I'm I'm picking more than three myself but not too much more I couldn't resist um
so like one or five three was it right I'll take three
oh man artificial barriers market is so massive hello oh man I like how vote twice is one of the
options yeah get get get voting people I want to see these results pour in I gotta know I gotta
know the answers uh it's tough but I'm obviously biasing the don is the most popular yeah that's
why I was the first one I put it's too good it's between yeah the dawn and rhino milk are trying
to fight each other right now all right man you get to look at whamen it's more popular than
tonal is a meme you get to look at whamen is pretty good it's a pretty strong meme I don't know
also this is like straw pill it doesn't seem to update unless you hit review results or at least
it's not for me refresh yeah I guess I should pop this on scurry
why isn't here you did
yeah it's a refreshed results button this was important that we did this by the way
yes this is the kind of high quality content stream content that you show up for the dawn
rhino milk massive long man bad goliath tonaled hello my n-words toxic brood they're the ones
that have names from from how much they've been voted for what came last it looks like we've got
froggled last spider-man is coming out slice and dice and frog will only have one vote each
I thought wolf pizza would be a lot higher than just the two votes I thought the spider-man's
coming out we get way more than one vote I'm surprised by that you know I didn't think people
people use it all the time spider-man's coming out I you know I figured yeah so why are we talking
about our favorite meme spider-man's coming in yeah I thought artificial barriers of blockage
would be higher too but it does like the top five no surprise at all the dawn I thought the
dawn move and he was my first vote the dawn is the dawn rhino milk massive oh so good I guess
it's decided the dawn was the apex meme of efap thank you we'll let it run for a bit
well in the meantime what you want to talk about yeah I thought high rags would get more that's
all right it's very specific that's the thing I mean it's it's a good meme but it's not an apex
meme yeah it's a lot of these are more specific memes but some of them they just oh they just
took of the dawn jeez it's so good it was a fire sale of a meme can only be secondary memes
such a natural meme hello my n-words I thought I think I didn't think it'd be that high
like it is pretty amusing whatever it said in toxic brood and tonaled I guess you can
cosmic chicken truly predicted less than three percent very interesting wow
the cosmic chicken would be disappointed in you efap viewers
what makes good rat what makes good
interesting this is very fact we get we got to look into the minds of our audience
you get to look at women is that high huh interesting that's more popular than tonaled
by just a vote or two you'd think yeah okay actually tonaled you'd think would get right
up there he's such a meme factory i'm surprised it's that low it's like that come maybe it's not
understood that that comes with old tonaled memes like the artificial powers of blockages are
separately though but that is just such a major meme it had to be separated out to be honest
okay you have my undivided attention oh i just stopped working
how dare you yeah if you haven't vote uh please do vote uh well you know we'll keep this running
we can uh check the results near the end of the stream yes i will i did do every once in a while
i'll put it in the uh put it in the chat you do it's incredibly important we get the answers
do you understand this is we'll get a little i voted badge if you vote on this yes um so this
next one is called republic commando effap meme i think i've seen that one maybe i don't think i
have no i haven't no i am hey you've been born into dangerous times a sharp mind can be the
key to survival i like the details that is often is not it will be your inherent physical traits
that win the day oh we didn't put me high cheeks every night
and in this regard you will be superior to you the jay is shooting cinnabasids uh
i think the other two are just shooting the standard thing whatever is there i like the
more common brethren
i like that game
for you are a commander an elite unit something truly special
your weapons your armor and most importantly your brothers
i feel that that back of my best by the way i'm pretty sure that's the same
with it was used all the way back in the kegsman meme i'm pretty sure i think it's the same one
sorry this is on steam oh i'm pretty sure it is yeah
of our world hunt and part it's a big day
to bring down much larger prey so too shall you join the three brothers
shooting captain marvel i don't see why not
yeah the volume and become fierce hunters for the republic now
join your heart and embrace your destiny as their leader join delta squad
oh no fringy was green i was the yellow orange one
the colors match wolf's red works fringy's got his new
fucking a veg is too
sexual harassment
i like that that's a spawner yeah i also i love that they're all reduced down to a
like a fucking sound bite all of these past efap villains like that's how they remembered
who wrote this
here's the thing
the giant alien cow thing that luke milks is one of my favorite additions to this whole series
nailed them all
ah thors hammer he's done a couple of them then i remember the icon uh i do too it's a memorable
icon it sure is his um the thinking behind star wars the last jedi that's what i'm just
remembering that someone got mad at you for laughing at patrick willams oh how many toys will
we be out of soul from this not many caused by ryan johnson
start over start over restart over restart
the toy department office how many toys will we be out of soul from this not many
simplest meme ever
oh
of the last jedi where the credits all say caused by
the result of inflicted by
um the blessed hyphens movie ruined by coats i believe this will be then a reference to when
he's we were watching that video from um the shazam director who was explaining how the coats
like the coat check well the person who organizes the coats would have um maybe
fucked it up if he was the director he would have like ripped into him and so that's probably what
this is it's not it's not a continuous hey the kids go from this scene to the rock of eternity
to the carnival so what they wear in this scene is what they'll wear for the rest of the movie
and most of that will be outdoors in winter well no this makes no sense you're fucking up my movie
why why you just come to me look at the back of the pikeman's head great i said they have to wear
all these outfits though who says is it because you have to design extra outfits no see what
you've done see what you've done costume department now i'm now you're sowing seeds of discontent you
fuck this movie youtube video about you you that's a cunt oh okay i'm doing a movie i'm doing
stability i'm making lots of money fuck it fuck it yeah get your coats kids get your coats on
title to the plot apparently
oh
pikeman rants are uh fucking wonderful oh i've seen fully pikeman based meme
i've seen this one before this is good shit i think one of you guys will both have seen this as well
oh no let's just use our noggins here s you flip it upside down it's still an s
what about if it's at 90 degrees all right i hear it's paint destroy an s and flip it my god it's
it it's a it's um well yeah i was right wasn't i again well it's like a backwards yes
it's it's a backwards s like like the point on the top of the s is facing the right
but if you flip it upside down like he has the keyboard it is both yeah and now it's pointing
to the left did you flip vertically or did you rotate it i flip vertically it's not actually
what kind of fucking bullshit is that what kind of bullshit is that
yeah if you flip vertically it goes like yeah okay right or better yet
but if you turn a schedule it's just a weird symbol when you make it happen flipping a
schedule what do you do do you rotate it or do you invert the physical looking physical
when you rotate at 180 it's an s when you flip it vertically it's a weird squiggle
if you flip a skittle around it's just gonna have no letter at all well yeah there's gonna
be an s on the other side yeah but you can't see but if you turn it around you know if you have a
skittle and you flip it around then you're looking at the s on the back now there is no uh aren't
aren't there at two s's i'm pretty sure there's one s isn't there an s on the front in the word
skittles it is holdo dolls this is take for free three take four
gins and it ends with an s so it makes sense that each skill would have an s on each side
doesn't though i don't know i'm pretty sure they have i'm pretty sure skills have s on one side
they're coming ends i don't know maybe that's here let me google it
what are you googling how many sides
they have an infinite amount of sides because they're fucked up
and i have a picture of skittles and many of the skittles pictured
do not have s's on them let me show you
that's the picture i was using some have s's some don't yeah the ones that don't have the s
are the ones that i can't see yes that's what i'm saying yeah they're on one side yeah they're on
the side we can't see we you said they were on both sides i said they might be well okay
i don't i'm not a skittle connoisseur are we done for m&m's uh s was here fuck it no but then it
never deals with this whole idea that like there's this weapon smuggling operation going on like
we're using alien tech too but then that's never touched upon like he never just notifies the
police and then deals with it yes he does he calls the fbi and they turn up on the ship and
that's part of why spider-man fucked up does he yes yeah this is part of why people hate this movie
and
Fl
oh my
Jesus
I'm just sending you
I don't hope my distance upsets you
but it's clearly in the film
things like mass amnesia
mass amnesia
Everything
fuck it there's no FBI in the film
There was a scene in the film that directly impressed us. How has everybody forgotten on this planet?
I didn't see that again, that was funny.
There's this weapon smuggling operation going on, like we're using alien tech to...
But then that's never touched upon. Like he never just notifies the police and then deals with it.
Yes he does. He calls the FBI and they turn up on the ship and that's part of why Spider-Man fucked up.
Does he?
Yes, this is part of why people hate this movie for no fucking reason.
Tony literally says to Peter, I did listen, I did care, he called the FBI.
Fucking piece of shit.
What the fuck?
I remember that shit.
I like how that Skittles conversation is totally organic.
What a fucking meme video.
You don't think it's funny at the time because you're like focused on the conversation about Skittles.
But then somebody animates this shit and you're like, oh my god, did we just go on and on about Skittles?
I love the little freaky hand pointing at the Skittles.
It's a very in-depth conversation.
Oh my god.
This is called Efap Endgame. We've still got another like 10 to go.
Roger, Roger.
What fucking game is this?
I'm not sure, actually. I don't know what this is.
It looks fucking awesome.
It looks like a World War II game of some kind.
I would guess it's like this totally accurate battle simulator thingy.
Oh yeah, it could be that.
We got a wolf there, Bilbo.
What are the guys in blue suits holding fish?
What is that?
I get the rhinos.
Is there a meme about that? Is that a thing?
It's hard to keep track. We need a meme encyclo meme deer so we could type in blue fish or something.
Blue suited man holding fish.
I mean, the chat might be able to answer that. I'm not sure, but hey.
Bilbo Bagan did say old games are not new games.
We got chickens in there, by the way.
It wasn't a big spiral.
They're fucking flying.
Wait, we got Thanos. This Thanos is on a team.
What the fuck are you?
Are they Yoshi's and Thomas attack chickens?
The hell did you come from?
Coopers, I really don't fuck.
What?
Thanos is?
There's so many Thanos.
Fuck him up.
Peek-a-choo.
What are these rags?
Alright folks, let's fucking check this view.
What's wrong with LA?
Spider-Man can. Surely real spiders can.
If Spider-Man can, then surely real spiders can.
It's a common thing to discuss not a crucified address but not a dinosaur. That's a thing.
You've all done it.
All in Kingdom Defender.
The fucking mess, look at this.
Jesus.
This person's computer must be a tank.
It's doing it being thrown.
That was amazing.
Oh my goodness.
I've seen this one before though, I fucking love this one.
This is Akbar still out there, eFapbeam.
I firmly believe that Akbar is still alive, floating around in space.
He uses the force to come back.
He uses the force, he just gets his direction wrong, I guess.
And he's still floating out there, still searching.
In episode 9, he'll show up just like Luke did at the end of this movie, and everyone will be like,
Akbar, we saw you fly out of the bridge, and you'll be like, it was a trap.
Dude, he holds himself into the supremacy, and he's like, I'm okay.
Oh.
It looks like, who the fuck are you?
Who are you, Fishman?
There was a trap all along.
He jumps back out at the end.
Are you seeing him?
Oh, come on.
He's like, where are you, I'm just gonna eat it.
Stop it.
What the fuck?
He uses the force.
He uses the force.
He can't be like this.
The fucking pacing on this E-Fap meme is amazing.
This stupid fucking fish.
Play that shit again.
Oh, it looks like, who the fuck are you?
Who are you, Fishman?
There was a trap all along.
He jumps back out of the airlock.
Play that shit again.
He's like, quiet, fucking...
His theme is Ocean Man.
Ocean Man.
Simple text.
The idea that he breaks into the supremacy, then jumps back out of the window and says,
quick, play my theme.
So fucking stupid.
No.
It hurts.
Ocean Man.
This has got 1,300 views.
There's a chance lots of people who have no idea what the context is have seen this.
Why would they need context?
There's no context required.
1,300 people got this without context.
I need a moment.
It hurts so much.
There's not a fucking no way Ocean Man is suddenly his theme.
Okay.
We're going to call it.
There are more memes to come, you see.
No, there aren't any more memes.
This is the apex of a lot of memes.
This is the one meme to rule them all.
Apex memes.
This is called To Infinity and the Dawn.
You fap me.
What was...
Oh my goodness, I need to...
Oh my god.
It hurts.
It hurts.
It actually hurts.
From smiling.
I want to play that one again once we reach the cycle to the end of these memes.
That one, I just love it.
It's just so fucking good.
Oh, seriously, give me a second.
Are you serious?
Honestly, there's a fucking chicken on this planet.
Can you see that?
Oh, there is.
You guys spoil us.
The fan base, we can't take it.
Okay, I think we're good.
You actually killed Rags.
No, no, no.
I just hurt in about four places.
Okay.
That's it.
I think we're good.
Only I would leave for...
Whoever...
Whoever...
Whoever made that meme...
Mark in 3D.
I firmly believe...
I don't think that I have ever laughed that hard in my life.
I'm actually kind of...
I need a moment.
That was insane.
You have created...
I can't even explain it.
Words cannot express the depths of my joy.
Okay.
All right.
I don't actually know how to handle this,
because I've never experienced this before.
At least Klamak's twice.
I think quarter century, but we have almost left to death.
All right.
Okay.
I've got...
It was like the first time...
Oh my goodness.
All right.
The potential guest-a-roos.
I gotta...
Give me a sec to...
Okay, I think we're good.
Guest-a-roos?
Yes.
Okay, I think we're good.
You don't really exist.
I'm a little sorry.
You don't think guest-a-roos exist?
No.
This is all happening inside your head, Marlin.
And that is why you fail.
It smells like...
I don't know why people fail.
Um...
If I go on...
What horror?
Oh.
Hello, CJ.
How do you do, sir?
Hello, guys.
How are you?
Wonderful.
We are...
How long is this now?
Nine plus eight plus two.
Nineteen hours.
Hey!
That was the thing I was supposed to beat.
Oh, shit.
Time to stop.
Five more hours.
Yeah.
Put a timer, like, on the screen.
Oh, fuck that.
Who wants that?
Well, some people who are watching this one, who are like,
Oh, man.
You got 22 hours left.
No, no.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Hey, everyone.
Sorry.
I couldn't come on earlier.
All right.
Has James Moore been an absolute mad lad
and just watched the whole thing?
Because I think he said he was going to.
What did he say?
I think he said he came in two hours after it started,
I think is what he said.
Yeah.
And he has to work in, like, one hour or something?
Yes.
He's dedicated to the extremities.
Yeah.
Give it a sec.
We may have another guest as well.
Yeah.
Give it a second.
Rags needs to recover.
He experienced meme overload.
We need to compose ourselves.
We need to focus on what's important,
which is the next five hours.
This is a marathon.
All right.
It ain't a sprint.
Yeah.
We've just been doing meme videos in a few pictures
and we're up to two hours already.
Twice the size of your average podcast length.
Just looking at people,
submitting videos about our stupid podcast.
Okay.
Big hotel sets.
I think I laughed so hard.
I'm sweating.
I don't know how you laugh yourself into a sweat.
Oh, it works.
When you're dealing with the meme intensity
we just had to deal with,
I think it makes sense.
I just realized everyone in here has been like
almost every meme and I haven't been in a single one.
I know that you're in one of the ones that's coming up
because I remember seeing.
You must do something that is truly.
You must have epic gamer moment.
Epic.
And look at that on the,
because previously not been on an Efap episode officially.
That's Star Wars girl.
Hello there.
Hello, how are you guys?
Wonderful.
Hello.
Half dying.
Thanks to the whole being up for so long,
but we're nailing it so far.
We've been.
We are rejuvenated.
We can feel the spirit inside of us.
I missed that last video.
I heard it was hilarious though.
Will.
Oh my God.
Will just for you guys,
once we get through the remaining ones that we have,
we'll totally repeat it.
I legit might need to step out if we're going to play that.
You don't have to laugh too hard.
It's magic.
I can't understand or explain.
Like, you know, the first person.
I'm like,
I feel like I'm the first person who found out that you could masturbate.
And I'm trying to figure out a way to explain it,
that it's a thing that can be done.
And I don't exactly know the words that I could use.
Oh my goodness.
Sounds like show, don't tell.
Oh, right.
Yeah. So anyway,
there is a link away.
I'll just repost it to get into this watch together.
We're currently on the next meme.
It looks to be a Toy Story meme.
And we're all very excited to see what we're going to see.
That Akbar one,
we will revisit it.
We will revisit it.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah. Is anybody not in the watch together?
I'm in there.
I'm not hearing any notes,
so I guess we're good to go.
Let me just pull it back.
Is everybody on zero-ish?
Yes.
Yeah, I'm a quadrant.
Good stuff. We're synced.
I think this is the Toy Story 2 was opening, right?
Yeah.
It means I'm going to have to do some pausing.
But yes, this is the birth planet of Tom Bloke.
Just wanted to make sure it's established.
We need to understand the meme.
I like the idea that there's an entire planet
and that's the only thing it's remembered for.
The birth Tom Bloke.
It's worth putting on like a trophy.
Oh gosh.
We're going to be doing a lot of pausing.
Toy Story films are awesome, by the way.
I just wanted to mention.
There's two.
I'm not a huge fan of the third one.
And then the fourth one, I've heard bad things.
Who here has seen the fourth one, by the way?
Nope.
Nope.
Explain yourself.
My stepdaughter wanted to see it.
So you can't really hear old things.
She should be lucky she's not an orphan.
Well said.
I don't think of anything. She owes you.
Well, I kind of wanted to see it too.
Toy Story is my favorite Pixar movie.
And the third one absolutely broke me.
I actually like the fourth one better than the third one.
The third one, everything that happened in the third one
is completely made pointless in the fourth one.
Yeah.
I love it when movies do that.
That's the impression I was getting.
No, it made lots of money.
The way the third one ends, it's like,
this is definitely the end of the Toy Story.
It's like, no, it's another one.
You're like, oh, okay.
They wrote both movies around the same time
because I went to Pixar right around when Toy Story...
They started pre-production on it.
So they actually were doing...
Oh my God, I'm sorry. I'm so tired.
I'm blanking on the word storyboarding.
And they said that they wrote it around the same time.
So they knew that everything was going to happen in four being made.
Yeah, it makes sense.
Toy Story is a huge money maker,
so I don't see why they wouldn't continue.
I haven't seen the fourth one,
so I don't know that it's a money grab per se.
I just...
It seemed like it ended with three.
It seemed like they had their ending. I don't know.
Think Disney's are under the money grabbing business.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
No, they would never.
Do you think a corporation would do that?
Innocent human beings.
Just sell out in order to make money.
Just ask Spider-Man.
His name is Spooderman.
Spooderman.
Isn't his name going to be like Night Monkey now?
I hope so.
Night Monkey?
We can reintroduce him into the MCU as Night Monkey.
Night Monkey.
Oh yeah, Rags, we gotta...
What was that?
We gotta fucking wait for Far From Hope to come out for you to watch it.
What was that show where there was the monkey
and it had the big M on his forehead,
the cartoon one,
and he had like this fucking gorgeous-ass sidekick lady?
Gorgeous-ass.
Yeah, she was super hot.
She had really short black hair,
is really slick.
It was like a Jenny Tartarovsky thing,
like Dexter or Justice Friends or something like that.
You know what I'm talking about?
Chat, help me out.
Dexter?
Dexter's Lab.
M for monkey.
Dial M for monkey.
Is that it?
Oh.
Yeah.
Powerpuff Girls?
Well, Dial M for monkey sounds about right.
So they would say Dial M for monkey is part of Dexter's Lab.
Yeah.
So...
Oh yeah.
Well, I mean, I guess my curiosity is satisfied.
Carry on.
Very well.
Dial M for monkey.
These are...
These are improvements.
Go away.
Oh.
Dial M wheels and tow wheels.
Brilliant.
Crater rolled.
Crater rolled.
Oh no, whole knolled.
Whole knolled.
Whole knolled.
Whole knolled.
Oh, he's even got the reflection.
It is...
That's a spin.
Amazing.
Done.
Fears.
Fears.
Gotta keep up with pausing.
As any law student will tell you, even the slightest touch...
Oh gosh.
Oh no.
Well, I love these three keep popping up as like the drones that defend Captain Marvelous
Crane.
That's what they are.
I know that is what they are.
An army of NPCs.
Dodds Innocence, an actual judge.
I actually do think that he would be fucking fired at a real court.
Legal Eagles just insane.
Absolutely.
Not going to lie when he was flying.
I'm not going to lie with the glasses.
I thought it was Patrick Willems.
The glasses?
Oh, what?
For Buzz?
When he was flying in at the start, yeah.
The newspaper.
Sexual harassment.
It's good shit so far.
I like it.
Yeah.
Green Tinted Dawn.
Nice touch.
Oh yeah, it is a good touch.
It's been so long since I've seen this.
Oh, that would be...
Yeah, that's Captain Marvel.
The expressions.
The Dawn literally has like fucking 10 seconds of screen time and yet they've got all these
expressions that work really well for this.
You know what, I need to watch Toy Story 1 and 2 again.
I have some good films.
College Fudd for Orphans.
Wait, can't he fly?
Pafe headquarters.
They're like scared in pain face for the Dawn's great.
How do you say such a thing?
Hey man.
All great, many great men.
You can't be courageous without feeling fear.
Otherwise you'd just be a robot.
That's true, but to enjoy the fear of such a...
I enjoy seeing him overcome these positions that he's thrust into because the Dawn is
an inspiration.
How dare you imply otherwise, Jay?
But you don't enjoy the pain on his face.
That's the part you don't enjoy and you want to stop.
You completely ignored my incredible counter and I am disappointed that you exist.
This amazing meme and we've paused it on a typo.
Could we please continue?
The Dawn.
This is pretty perfect.
Very good, very good.
I like to think that someone just thought, you know, to Infinity and the Dawn, that could
be a thing and then this entire thing was born out of it.
She's totally the villain.
It's very clear.
The Dawn.
What the fuck?
Who wrote this stupid shit?
None of this makes any sense and what does make sense is fucking cringe.
He could give me a smile.
He could give me a smile.
Oh, that's good.
Very well done.
Sideburn's fantastic job.
Very, very good.
Yay.
I like that.
Yeah, man.
It's quite wholesome as well.
I just like the whole thing.
Good shit.
Don't go wrong with Toy Story.
I think everyone would agree on that.
This one's called Efap Adventures of Efap, I guess.
Kung Fu Panda?
Looks like Kung Fu Panda.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which one is this?
How many are there now?
Twelve?
I think there's, is it three?
Probably 20.
Your tweets are making us look bad.
I'm sorry, but it's what I think.
I guess we consume TLJ.
I'm okay with this.
Gross.
It's natural.
And then TLJ.
Pooped out all the videos.
Stop that podcast.
Shit, man.
We got them all after us.
Master.
Again, copyright.
Just keep cinema sense.
Oh, wow. That's so racist.
Fuck.
Fuck, we haven't covered- yeah, that's efap 10, we covered them?
Haha, that's a strawman fish, he's normal.
Bowler, raggers, and wolf.
I like the frickin' one as well, that's good shit.
Oh, Jack wouldn't realize.
Yeah, yeah, ridiculous, inaccurate. How could we take this seriously?
All right, this one's called efap fighter Z.
Based on the lore of efap.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
What's that face?
That's a- is that- that's new, I think.
Is that new?
Looks new.
I think that's- yeah, that looks new.
I love all my n-words.
I think that's new as well.
For fuck's sake.
Do I feel pissed?
His hashtag R2 meets me.
Oh, South Pole, nice.
Aw, fuck off.
Hey!
Battle, you see this shit?
Wait, I didn't listen.
I was just on the phone, sorry.
It's just-
I see my face.
I love that rendition.
Yeah, so I guess it's just like a bunch of people fighting,
and they do it as one by one, and you made it in.
Can you go like a couple of seconds back?
Tag R2 meet you.
Aw, fuck off.
That's your intro.
I like that droid, it's great.
God, get a better microphone.
American business, asshole.
The dick of it.
Unless you turn that milk into a-
Gay Appa Ben.
Ayy.
Blessin' tight, man.
Wormstarch girl.
God, such a shit.
That's a deep fuckin' meme.
Eight little centrist boy.
Oh, Taxum.
Post-Goliath.
Ray.
Ma, Ray, C.
Chili man.
I fuckin' hate Trump.
Quincele.
Lee.
Quincele is great.
What the fuck was-
Wait, what was that?
What was-
Cobe?
R2 of a man.
Wait, what's that a reference to?
I'm way ahead of you guys.
Oh, uh, uh, J.
Scroll back to 50.
I'm at 57.
Yeah, just run it back.
I'm looking at-
I'm not sure what this is a reference to, but I like it.
It's funny.
Jelly man.
Cartoon of a man, Cobe.
What is that?
Oh, mom.
So in a chest that I remember, cartoon man.
I blanket on this.
Was cartoon man.
Is that like an insult you called somebody?
You cartoon of a man?
Oh, could have been.
I think that's-
It's from early E-fat.
One of your straw-
One of your straw men in your H-bomber video.
Oh, that's some deep law again.
You said, yes.
Look at women.
Let me help you.
Fearless leader.
Your response theory.
We made you all fancy.
I'm rag.
I'll just fuck off.
I mean, I'd watch this TV show.
That's great.
Yeah, that was fucking amazing.
So much work's got into that.
On the faces.
Sounds like a bowler insult.
Yeah, possibly.
But yeah, that's really good shit, honestly.
Uh, can't say it good enough.
There you go, Mel.
You've been featured now.
Yes.
There you go.
A picture you look like that as of seeing the video, by the way, in your PFP.
Finally.
This is called Efap.
Jack and Eric decide to go on Efap.
Oh, no.
I don't know what to expect with this one.
Jack.
Yeah.
I don't recognize this yet.
For the sources, because I don't know what this is.
Jack.
Every frame of force.
Jack.
Oh, God.
Man.
Hi, Mola.
Oh, this is probably Wolf and Rags, too.
I've always beaten this shit out of straw, man.
No, Mola.
It's become a meme that he beats the shit out of straw, man.
That is not a good look.
Oh, my God.
What is that?
I guess they were saying the only time they landed a punch was on a straw, man, I guess.
Even clever in that way.
I'm also going to step out of practice.
The premise of his argument is completely based on his argument.
He's wrong no matter what.
Doesn't matter if you're correct.
Logic.
This is literally beating someone with facts and logic.
Oh, yeah.
Wait, what?
Can I text?
Yeah, so you said it was a Watchman, was it?
It is Watchman.
Yeah, it's a director's car.
Ah.
Wait, what?
Very careful with this.
It's so fucking brutal.
Like, I don't know what to make of it.
I think it's hilarious how the only hits he got in.
Oh, shit.
Rags, I think you may have seen these ones ahead of time, but they're still
stuff that I don't know if Jay, if you've seen this or not, but you'll enjoy it for sure.
The Doctor Who ones.
Oh, I love these ones.
These are great.
I think massively.
Sexual harassment.
Pretty often for this, though, because the BBC.
Yeah, they once claimed my video because I had like 10 seconds of one of their shows
in like 15 minutes of other stuff that was unrelated to them.
I'll just keep pausing.
This is going to blast them to hell.
No one saw this story coming.
I'm going to kill you.
My name's Douche.
Sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment.
This is always an insane network of like consistency to each of the memes as well.
Like, they all run on like a lot of narratives that some of them create
and that others just repeat or like rules and stuff is set up.
It's actually kind of insane to keep track of.
Oh, it just turns into a flame wars and it gets out of control really quickly.
I think the faces covering them up should help with copyright as well, by the way.
Oh, detection.
So here's the thing.
The right opinion and I would not be discussing rags.
This video, if the issue at hand was just that he doesn't like the last Jedi
and other people, right?
Remember that video, right?
Oh, man, we tore that to shreds took us long enough
because it was so densely packed with bullshit.
Yeah, we had two full if apps so we could get through the whole thing.
Nightmare fuel.
Is that true?
Eric, Texas.
That's the sexual harassment.
So we're the Daleks.
I like that.
Yeah, as much as the part one is a great set, part two is the one that's like
really fucking good.
If I could just grab it.
Part two.
Part two.
I'm getting there.
I swear.
It retarded me into hiccups.
How did that quote not kick off more?
It retarded me into hiccups.
Leave these two alone.
You will kneel.
What for?
Objectivity obviously exists in art.
The last Jedi is pretty shit.
But long.
I think that's my argument for how objectivity exists.
All the discussions around this movie are just straight up malicious and overly simplified.
It's inconsistent.
Objectively, it farts on itself.
Objectively, it's bad.
Do you have to hold on to artism?
At least we have the option.
Don't let go.
I think discussing movies is a lot of fun.
Logic and reason.
So, um, here's the thing.
I fucking hate Trump.
It'd actually be hard to keep track of it.
But knowing it, I have actually remembered this episode still.
Hey, Jay, how many times have the Daleks retained in Doctor Who?
Oh, oh, I've actually done a thing on this.
It's in my critique.
Um, well, you should know the answer immediately.
Um, well, I didn't count them.
I just recited it.
It's like fucking from the end of the classic all through all through the new series.
It was like eight times they were completely destroyed and then returned and rebuilt their
empire.
It's ridiculous.
Oh, wow.
They're they're a tough bunch.
They're a moneymaker, Daleks, aren't they?
They're like, oh, shit, the Daleks.
Everything's very interesting now.
It's it's different.
They're contractually obliged to be in the series or they lose the rights if they're
not in them for a year.
Well, then stop obliterating them permanently.
You just stop doing that.
Star Wars, the last Jedi.
You have to you have to make arguments.
Eric, you're just you're so titanically ugly.
I need to replay that shit.
You're so titanically ugly.
Rags.
Investigate outside.
Mulch.
Also, you're like, I'm fucking right.
I'm head outside.
I have to go outside and I have to do things with people.
Establish visual contact.
So is everybody in the wash together?
They've got chat.
Go straight on milk for the win.
And who the hell are you?
Wait, say that again.
I'm sorry.
I'm not even following.
It's like sexual harassment.
You get to look at women.
I like realistic proportions in my inside.
Outline resembles the inferior species.
They were mostly I could almost play this fully because it's like a different sets of clips as
well.
Massive.
You have the right.
You deserve your own opinion.
Let me see.
That depends.
Are you an orphan?
Fuck a son of a bitch.
Slice and dice.
You are the dicks.
That's what you call shit combat.
So here's the thing.
They believe themselves to be warriors fighting their holy and protected police.
This is not war.
This is massive faggotry.
This video.
Created by rags is in fact paraphrasing a video made by his apparent best friend.
Mahler.
Hey, Mike.
You're my best friend.
Oh, I guess we're being best forever.
Thanks.
Thanks, dude.
Say, I didn't understand publicly for you, but hey.
Um.
I'll accept it.
I do.
So.
We were best friends.
Of course.
But, you know.
A review is nothing more than a description of an experience.
No, it's not.
Someone else want to comment on that.
Can we save that again?
No, not him.
Come on, me and the asshole side.
A review is nothing more than a description of experience.
That's not as simple as that.
No, no, no, nothing more.
Oh, God.
That is fucking faint.
Oh, my goodness.
That was.
Oh, that was so expert use of clips.
Fantabulous.
Um, this one's called Efab legends.
My FIFA in this will be to do with tunnel.
Could this be new?
I'm not sure what's happening.
I'm I'm going to have to leave after this one.
Oh, no problem, dude.
Oh, no.
Wait, anthem.
Oh, yeah.
And the rude is summer.
I forgot about that.
Almost ruined the summer.
I fucking remember there were other games.
That screenshot, where he's like, that should just be that's perfect.
That was.
Point two.
Oh, this is new.
Whoa, those the billion reference.
So quick.
Yeah, well, how long ago was that?
So many hours.
That was like 10 minutes ago.
No, that was like three hours ago.
I was like 10 minutes ago.
We did the two billion.
That's the right rise.
We've been streaming already for two and a half hours.
No, no, that's not.
No, that's not correct.
I feel like I feel like Robin Williams and Jumanji.
Or I'm like, what year is it?
What year is it?
What year is it?
Yeah, that was a fast meme.
Congrats.
That was good.
Wow.
That was wow.
That is an up to date piece of work.
Good shit.
Oh, my God.
Someone's telling me good.
Oh, my.
So he said, good morning.
And they're not wrong.
Oh, no.
Watch this one.
Epham Trovis rags.
She actually did that down.
Retreat.
Perfect.
The implication there is interesting.
I mean, that's pretty much a pretty strong summary.
Yeah.
All right.
I'm going to have to pop off because I'm in a mad rush this morning.
I'm meant to be going to a festival.
Well, wait, a mansion.
It's insomnia up in Birmingham.
That's a land, isn't it?
Don't lie to the people.
Insomnia.
Hey, that's all of us right now.
Yeah, I know.
I've been sleeping.
Yeah, I might be able to pop back on for a little bit while I'm waiting for my taxi,
but I had to go and pack and make myself semi presentable for all the neck bids.
If I don't manage to pop back on, congratulations on 50 episodes.
And I have a fun rest of the stream.
Thank you very much, CJ.
Thank you for popping in.
See you, my man.
We'll see you around.
Yeah, absolutely.
See you later.
See you.
Bye.
Here's your face in videos.
All right, we got.
This is the last one outside of rewatching a particular one.
It's called Ephab versus not Ephab.
Good start.
It's already a chicken.
I'm not sure this is in fortress.
You should be good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can just play it.
Yay.
You scoured the other one, I think, as well.
I haven't actually seen whatever this is before, like the trailer for TF2,
if this is what this is.
So I don't know what's going to happen.
There's so many incredible fan ones.
It might not even be.
Wait, was that wolf just holding a grenade that said end?
Oh, they're like robots.
Oh, my God.
Was that a mode that got brought out for TF2 then or something?
Because I'm not up to date with TF2.
I never played TF2, but wow.
Thanks for the one year of Ephabs for all the memes and all the quotes.
More rag is a mole for toxic.
Rise toxic brood.
Rise for objectivity.
Bilbo Baggins.
Thanks to spook made by O Doctor.
There we go.
I feel like I just watched the teaser trailer for your guys' next year of Ephab.
There are many more NPCs to destroy with facts.
The classic villains.
So yeah, this is the one that broke rags.
We're just going to play it from start to finish again, okay?
Wonderful shit.
I firmly believe that Akbar is still alive floating around in Spain.
He uses the force to go back.
He uses it.
He uses the force.
He just gets his direction wrong, I guess.
And he's still floating out there, still searching.
In episode nine, he'll show up just like Luke did at the end of this movie.
And everyone will be like,
Akbar, we saw you fly out of the bridge.
You'll be like, it was a trap.
Dude, he force pulled himself into the supremacy.
And he's like, I'm okay.
Oh, oh, it looks like who the fuck are you?
Who are you, a fish man?
It was a trap all along.
Jumps back out of the airlock.
Oh, come on.
Quiet, fucking.
He was ocean.
Beautiful stuff.
Still better than the last Jedi.
And that about closes it for the video memes and image memes.
I can't believe we did all the memes.
Well, for now, there's probably a whole bunch on Twitter I need to collect.
Maybe right.
How are you doing, Anna?
Things.
How long have you been up for?
I've been doing similar things involving.
Yeah, I was doing similar things.
I was at Disneyland all day,
so that was very different from what you guys were doing.
Hey, how is how is Disneyland functioning well?
It's pretty empty right now.
Oh, no.
Is that with Galaxy's Edge?
Is that in Disneyland or is that in somewhere?
I figured it is.
I went there today.
I was how's that doing?
I've heard not an operate.
Is it everything and more?
It was a ghost town.
What do you mean?
Really?
It means that she sold several ghosts.
Well, what did you do there?
I filmed videos to show how empty it was and to show that it's a giant gift shop with overpriced
plastic items, and I went on the Millennium Falcon ride,
which was the only thing that was fun there.
As long as you're the pilot, because there's six seats,
so each person gets assigned something to do since it's a virtual reality ride.
And if you're in the pilot seat and you get to control where the ship flies,
so one person goes left or right, the other person controls if it goes up or down.
And then the people behind you are the gunman.
That sucks.
On the back of the engineers, and you're supposed to be getting
energy beams for a holdo or not holdo.
Hondo.
Hondo?
Hondo?
He's from...
Sorry, I'm tired.
He's from the Clone Wars, so it doesn't make sense why he's involved with the Millennium Falcon,
which is...
They have a Han, a holdo, and a Han.
And a Lando.
Did you not watch the Clone Wars?
And they drive Hondas.
No, Hondo is a pirate.
He's one of the, like, I wouldn't say villains,
but one of the shady characters from the Clone Wars TV show.
Go on this mission to do the stuff.
But if you're in any seat, aside from the pilot seat,
fun time, and you can't really see what's going on.
But I got a pilot seat, so I had a fun time.
But my friends did not, so.
So you have your tank.
You have two DPS and two supports.
I don't know what that means.
He's referring to silly nerd things.
Gosh, Rax.
I think I thought better.
A ghost town.
Well...
Interesting.
I've heard different rumors about how they're planning on, like,
retooling it, right?
Because it's not doing well enough, what they want, whatever.
And it's just...
Because they're planning to make better films.
How dare you, Jay?
How did...
When I met you, you were like, TLJ?
Yeah, that was pretty good.
That was not bad.
I was like, it was okay.
Yeah.
That's, like, what I...
In the video I released about it as soon as it came out.
I was like, there are bad things.
There are good things.
It's a mixed bag.
How do you feel about it now?
They're telling me you're not a gamer?
Uh, no.
Mal, that is not an epic gamer moment.
Mm.
Yeah, I can attempt it, but I'll die instantly.
Oh, no.
What, like, any gamer?
Even my friends?
No, the only game I'm actually pretty good at
that I enjoy playing was, like, Diablo 3.
That's odd.
You'd be like, the only game I was good at was...
I was expecting you to check your chest or off that low.
You're like, no, Diablo 3.
Oh, I mean, we're talking...
Are we talking about board games or video games?
Um...
Oh, I don't know.
What about digital board games?
You're good at board games.
I'm not good at video games.
I'm good at Sims.
Sims is fun.
More like B-O-R-E-D games.
Am I right?
He's a little kid.
Board of those games.
Yeah, in Monopoly, I'm always the hat.
Okay.
Hey, Carlos, you're not good.
So, I'm always the figure.
I just felt the need to tell everybody that.
This is an important game in a moment.
I wanted to be in the official eFAP lore.
If we play Monopoly, I get to be the hat.
And this isn't a point of discussion.
And this is not something that we're gonna debate or discuss, right?
I'm the goddamn hat.
All right.
What if I want to be the hat?
Well, then you can go and fuck yourself with the car.
You can use what you can do.
You can be the battleship or the wheelbarrow.
I don't see how I'm able to do that.
You know what you can do?
Well, they're very, very small.
It's actually quite easy.
But what you can do is you can be the stinky shoe.
How about that, Jay?
Why am I not the dog?
It's not the right kind of...
That's right.
There is a dog.
I haven't played Monopoly in so many years.
This was before the weird trans canine thing.
Yeah.
I'll be the dog, but the hat is...
No one can be the hat because if I see the hat,
I'll think it's me, even though it's clearly a dog.
I was about to say I'm gonna start reading Super Chats.
Do you know what the first Super Chat is of this entire 50th stream?
Oh my god, no.
From X to Spooky for Me.
Literally, two euros, gay.
And we begin with a big gay.
That sums it about up.
I'm curious if that made it into the screen
from the first part.
I'd have to look back on it.
Yeah, it just says gay.
Chat says I can glue the hat to the dog.
There you go.
There you go.
I can glue the hat to the dog.
Yes.
You shouldn't glue clothing to animals.
They're not real.
According to animals, aren't real?
It's not so much...
It's not a clothing.
It's an accessory.
Like glasses.
A hat is a nice coat of clothing.
And that's an accessory.
Yeah, but okay.
It could be both.
No, it's always an accessory.
When you go shopping, you only find hats under the accessory section.
Yeah.
That doesn't mean it's not a coat of clothing.
I can fuck that, Jay.
Clothes definitely.
It's stinky shoe.
Stinky shoe is jealous.
What is considered an article?
Items worn to cover the body.
Example sentence, he stripped off his clothes.
Hey, hey.
That was an epic gamer moment.
Could you wear a suit of hats?
Yes.
Therefore, it covers your body and therefore
is an article of clothing at that point, maybe?
I don't think so.
You probably put something in the category.
Is your head part of your body?
No.
Huh?
Yes.
Okay, let's say, I don't know.
That's like saying glass.
That's like saying sunglasses are clothing.
Like you're burning and you're like,
oh, my whole body is on fire.
You don't go, oh, my whole body and also my head is on fire.
Hey, Jay.
Are contacts clothes?
Because they fit your definition.
The definition of an accessory is a thing which can be added to something else
in order to make it more useful, versatile, or attractive.
That's definitely a hat.
That is like the perfect definition.
Is the hat in that case added to the body?
That's not true.
Because for me, I get more attractive.
I was looking over the chat to see what the tip was and just said kick, Jay.
And I'm like, okay.
Wolf, back me up.
I think he'd agree.
Anyway, I'm the dog hat.
I was going to say, I'm going to start reading these
because we've got four hours expected until the end,
which is probably about as long as it'll take for us to get through these all.
So taking time with any of them that asks the questions.
So here we go, I guess.
Number two was, I hope you got your rest, long man.
I did indeed.
I believe, Rags, you got a nice chunk of rest as well, right?
We did this the correct way.
Yeah, I mean, that meme about episode L, oddly realistic.
I don't know what kind of prediction powers that person had, but it was,
oh boy, make not get to the noggin joggin.
24 hours, here we go.
Opening was beautiful.
Got me through my work day, brothers.
Thanks for all you do.
No problem.
I was hoping people would love that intro because I did.
I was just like, it's so cool.
Um, give me my wolf back.
He did make a surprise cameo.
That was not planned, by the way.
It really worked out.
It was cool that he came in for the quiz because, uh,
better test all of our knowledge on you.
Damn, I'm about to go to bed, but at least I know y'all will keep going when I wake up.
Yes, Wolfman Jack.
I don't know if you're currently in.
That is a scary thought.
Indeed, yes.
Look forward to this.
So we're going to talk about Spider-Man or what?
Did we talk about Spider-Man throughout this whole thing?
I don't know.
Spider-Man simply.
Thank you.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Happy 50th.
Can't wait to see how long I am awake.
I mean, yeah, I think there's a lot of people who actually will make it the full time.
Like I said, we won't know exactly who they were or we'll have to just check like chat
throughout all the logs to find out who made it.
But I'm sure plenty did.
Nathan, people who made it say in the chat now that you made it.
I'd be lying, Jay.
No, everyone on the internet tells the truth.
Can you trust them, Jay?
Well, you didn't believe me when I said a hat was an accessory.
Yeah.
That's because you're wrong.
Well, no, you're not wrong that a hat is an accessory,
but you're wrong that it's not also an article of clothing.
It is an accessory, but it's also an article of clothing.
You're definitely no idea what the fuck you're talking about.
You are a walking fashion disaster.
I really thought you were going to call me a fascist.
You're a fascist fashion-
I was going to say, would that be an accurate, Jay?
Would it?
Yeah, no denial, man.
It's not a very good...
It doesn't really work because the fascists are known for many things.
One of them, snazzy dressers.
That's true.
And hats.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
They killed a lot of jeans, though.
Sorry.
People are saying I made it and Glib is like, it's not over.
Yeah, it's still four hours.
That's true.
A lot of people may drop off within that four hours.
They're still four hours.
That's literally just an intro of beneath app time.
We'll be fine, Rags.
We'll nail it.
That's like 80% of a normal e-fat.
Nathan, I know you're still here watching.
Mountain Dew is trash.
Also, hi, Morla Rags Jay and whatever other masses are present.
Hello.
Hello.
Hi.
Hello.
Poor Nathan, given his Mountain Dew trash.
Mountain Dew's all right.
I'm down with Mountain Dew.
Love your content.
Love your content.
You're gayer than an X-Wing, Rags.
Oh, I don't know if that's insulting or a compliment.
That's a nice thing someone's ever said to me.
It's 11 p.m. here in Australia, and I meant to be sleeping.
So much for that.
That makes sense for me was on the opening because I guess it was perfect timing for Australia.
Oh, man.
What time is it on Australia right now?
I guess it's almost about time is when you fucking started.
Yes.
Weird how that works.
Uh, I feel like the dude crying at Star Wars episode nine trailer.
Oh, that's how I felt with that act for me.
So everyone felt with that.
Prediction.
Once the room fills up, you will all go on tangents and no videos will be covered.
How many videos did we get covered in total?
It was seven.
The Skittles disagree.
Apparently we covered seven.
We covered a shit ton of meme videos.
So that's seven videos per day.
That's that's the best way to measure how many not by hour.
Seven videos per day.
That's the rate of the five videos per day.
You know, it was really funny with that is I'm thinking about it.
I was like, well, depending on the length, that's a lot.
Like if it depends if they were like 30 minute videos and yeah, good job.
That's fast.
They weren't there.
Do we need to do like, do we need to do like a quick fire round or something like that
where we take some of the old shitty ones, blow through them.
Like speed them up two times.
And this is the thing.
All the ones that I had as potential coverage now, it'll just be,
they'll be slotted into episodes for like full content.
We got the most out of the ones we covered.
I think we got some some class entertainment out of them.
There was there was some gold in them there.
Hills.
Girl.
Blood for the blood.
God milk for the cornflakes.
Yeah.
Congrats on 50 faps being a big fan for a short while, but it's been a lot of fun.
Hope the streams run smoothly.
This is a fantastic treat for my birthday.
Yeah.
At a miracle, the streams have not been damaged beyond a couple of small hiccups
and no copyright issues as well.
It's been it's been great.
You think we'd get really sore after 50.
But I just I'm just left wanting more.
Exactly.
No one's ever threatened to see you either.
Yeah.
Yes, they have.
Tried to take down your video.
Well, not.
No one's trying to sue eFap specifically.
Well, you're the manager, Jay.
That's your problem.
Yeah, go straight to you.
We're just here to collect the paychecks.
And I was going to say, maybe maybe Jay never told us like
a bunch of emails came through about suing.
He just didn't take them seriously.
He's like, nope.
No, it's trying to sue you by people.
Also, you need to be in court on Friday.
Like, oh, no.
The Britain is suing you.
Everyone's saying.
Hey, Voxis.
If you want to if you want to join the call, you're welcome to say.
Oh, hello, Voxis.
We're currently reading super chats, but we'd happily have your company.
Voxis.
I have to put up this charade for four more hours.
Help me.
You're referring to Jay.
Not just great.
Not just gray.
Jay, how come you wear a double D hat?
Mm hmm.
What?
It's a J.
How come you wear a double D hat?
Because of my big head tits.
What what is this question?
Those aren't head tits.
Those are ears.
And everyone in chat knows exactly knows exactly what I mean when I say a double D hat.
And quite frankly, I will be somewhat disappointed if you do not hide her.
I don't know.
And a nose and metal nose.
That much is clear.
Metal explain to me.
Fucking back me up on this shit.
God damn it.
The chat knows what I'm talking about.
Chat's got this shit on lockdown.
Oh, it's from a cartoon.
Is the man I think chat is I think we found I think we just found out
who the favorite Fapper was in this assortment gaggle here.
Because man, that is sort of gaggle.
Yeah, it's what you call an army of geese.
Wait, we're geese?
Rags, you're making it very difficult for me to follow your narrative.
It's not a narrative.
It's a reflection of the truth.
And the truth is that this question hasn't been answered.
This question hasn't been answered yet.
Why are you wearing a double D hat?
I like it.
It's a nice hat.
That is a disappointing answer, but an acceptable one.
You may proceed, Mahler.
Thank you, sir.
What answer were you hoping for?
Something interesting, something entertaining, something clever, witty, fun.
It's it's to hide.
But it's always business.
That's the thing is with managers.
Manager managers are scum until you need one.
It's to hide my Patrick Willems tattoo.
You happy rags?
How how would a hat cover up the Patrick Williams tattoo above your ass crack?
Williams?
Well, no, it extends all the way up to the top of my head from my ass crack.
Oh, no.
Oh, it's all his forehead.
Oh, speaking of all forehead.
Oh, it was a good transition.
Yeah, I know.
Right.
Thanks.
I worked pretty hard on it.
Oh, my God.
Boxes.
That has quite a small forehead.
Well, it extends all the way to the back of his.
It's actually like a 12 head.
Oh, oh, my God.
Boxes is here.
Oh, oh, oh, there he is.
He made it.
Yay.
Boxes is here.
Old man.
How'd you do?
Testies one, two, three.
Oh, I am a I'm testy.
Also, my AC is not running currently.
So I'm toasty as well.
Oh, see that explains the sweating.
It wasn't the meme video.
No, it was definitely the meme video.
It's the combo.
It was.
Well, yeah, I ain't sweating out for laughing.
Yeah, we managed to get all three members of the Great British podcast to pop on
at least at one point.
Achievement unlocked.
Really?
Yeah.
During the 50s.
All separately.
Yeah, it's interesting.
You're all meeting each other today.
Yes.
Divide and conquer.
It is that you have although secretly snacks is not going to be at insomnia
because he sleeps.
Um, are you guys on later?
I assume so.
You're doing a marathon, aren't you?
Oh, my God.
No, we still have four hours.
Oh, yeah, it depends on what you mean by later.
Four hours to me is like, oh, yeah, we're not on for much longer.
But I realize the four hours is a long amount of time to a lot of people.
So yeah, we are on for another four hours.
And you're not doing another one later, not a part four.
No, we end up.
We did it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We did it in three.
I'm the manager and I say that it happens.
It went eight hours, nine hours and seven hours.
That's going to be the trilogy.
The middle being the longest, naturally.
Stay one of seven of the 50.
Blessed Piedman.
We we did a poll about the we did a poll about the the apex memes
and you are currently number and you have 18 votes and you're at 2.81 percent of the
votes is the Blessed Piedman, which puts you right above orphans, which is legitimately impressive.
Yeah, but the current have seen some of the the memes that people have put together
the very there, that's something.
Oh, we got to.
Yeah, it's a shame.
The person who came up with that means a pedophile.
Wait, what?
Yes.
So every time you you say that name, unfortunately, you are quoting a pedophile.
So so maybe give me a new nickname like Mr.
Handsome.
Yeah.
Can't we take it back?
Can't it be our name for you now?
Listen, listen, if you're going to use that logic, then that means that every time someone
drives down the Autobahn, they're supporting Hitler.
Not supporting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But you think you're just going to drive down Hitler's
and just be like, oh, yeah, I was like, this is nice.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh huh.
Yeah.
But that's not so bad.
I mean, at the end of the day, remember Hitler killed Hitler.
So that's true.
The man who killed Hitler is my hero.
Technically, he's not a hero.
I think we need to get the straight.
He's not a pedophile.
He's an advocate for pedophiles, which is definitely different.
Well, I know that's that's true.
That's actually true.
Oh, that.
Yeah, that's actually true.
Um, hmm.
He's a pedophile.
Well, he's not even advocating pedophilia pedophiles for pedophilia.
Well, yeah, he is saying no, because it wasn't that got derailed very quickly.
It's not a physical thing.
If it's like because he said it's like a squeeze.
He's fucking loony.
I assume that if you're dating someone, there is a physical element to it.
Yeah, proximity.
If anything else, it gets worse from there.
Yeah, he said something.
He said a spiritual connection.
You should date someone regardless of their age, which.
What if it's a long distance spiritual connection?
Is that pedophilia?
If you're like an astral projection,
yeah, like like an astral.
Anyway, I would like to say congratulations on 50 faps.
As people are saying, that's quite impressive.
Remember when Iraq's got that guy to accidentally save.
Oh, yeah, it was funny.
Rags got a guest to accidentally say that the Holocaust was a fictional event.
Oh, yeah.
And he's like, he does not necessarily share the views of any guest.
He immediately took it back.
It was OK.
We made it.
It was the most bizarre fucking moment ever, though.
And yeah, we don't know quite how we did it, but exactly a year before now,
50 faps ago exactly, we began with this insane podcast.
How wonderful to reach this position.
What time of day did the first fap start?
Let me check.
This may take me a bit of time, actually.
So now I've got to like, you know, say a bunch of stuff that kind of delays.
It's OK.
Like extends sort of conversation to imply that maybe I am saying something.
Wait, it's dark.
It's dark fate already out.
What? I was unaware of this.
It's dark fate out.
Is it?
Because I've just seen I've just seen a review of it pop up.
Oh, my gosh.
Dark fate review.
I can barely type.
I'm so uncoordinated right now.
They got my lips to work.
We started the first ever refab stream at eight thirty six p.m., by the way.
But we're not on the dot, unfortunately.
I guess I should have started this 24 hour one at eight thirty six p.m.
It releases November 1st, 2019.
Yeah, it's not out yet.
It's closed, though.
Fair long is asking if he can come back because his career is dead.
He's going to see it's going to come on.
He's like, why is coming on?
He probably would.
He's aching for work.
We could talk about too long now.
He's letting himself go.
Doesn't look like we used to.
Yeah, he's desperate for work to get him on.
All right.
Oh, who?
Edward Furlong.
Edward Furlong.
Oh, who's that?
The guy who played John Connor Intimidator 2.
Edward Furlong.
Oh, my goodness.
Yeah, don't work.
Google images.
Maybe put the safe search on.
It's it's.
No, no, no.
Always, always safe search.
Always safe search off.
Yeah, he doesn't he doesn't look exactly like he did in T2.
No, you're right.
Oh, my God.
He looks like Grima.
Here I'm here.
I'm going to yeah.
I'm going to copy this and I'm going to paste this into also.
Wow.
This this is a cavalcade of errors because he's wearing a shirt on backwards.
This is amazing.
All right.
He looks like Grima Wormtongue and he's wearing his Coca Cola,
his Korean Coca Cola shirt backwards.
It's inside.
That's the most famous image.
Yes, face is melting a bit weird.
Oh, my goodness.
I'm so glad that I probably won't look like that based on current.
Everyone calls him Edward Furlong now.
Oh, because he's got a big ass dick.
Uh, no.
You led us down a confusing path there, Pikeman.
And when, yeah, no, no, no, you can only take a horse to water.
I can't make him drink.
You're the ones who came to that conclusion.
I just said he did subway.
It was your water.
We drank it for sure.
But it was your water.
That's a great nickname because they're like because you're fucking massive dick,
right?
And he's like, yeah, don't Google.
No, no, it's really because I like sandwiches.
So I'm going to want to kick on with reading these Super Chats.
That's all good.
Yeah.
It's going to take a few years.
React to snow wars on YouTube.
It's the prequels memed.
You know, hit of snow is it?
It's funny.
I'm police.
They live inside of my head.
This is a super chat that says Nathan is a big idiot.
Very bad at video games.
Sorry, Nathan.
Eat that, Nathan.
Nathan get ripped to shreds.
You're worse than Derek.
An honor and a privilege to help open out the 50th episode.
Keep on fapping my massive.
That was meme repository of which, yes, I believe he was one of the three opening videos.
Pop away.
To think I live to see this day.
Gone grats, you massives for 47 streams.
May you 47 streams.
Oh my goodness.
Wait, wouldn't it be like 53?
If this is not actually 50.
If this is like 47 or something, surely we didn't like.
No, they're all labeled from one to 50.
So yeah, but did you like double one up or skip a number?
Like 39 is a really forgettable.
Like, did you ever delete it in the past?
No, they've all stayed up.
That would be like 50 something.
Yeah.
What if you show the podcast and then you just skip over it?
No, Mahler, you didn't.
I'm not falling for this jibber jabber.
I'm a.
This is serious business.
This is really this really is 50, right?
I'm a student of you deleted one.
I'm a student of the giddies and he would not allow this to foolery.
The giddies.
The giddies.
Wow, you can hear this.
Yeah, I might be losing my mind a little bit.
What on one of it?
The giddies forgives.
On Mueller, it only goes up to 48.
Oh, well, I was going to say, yeah, it'll be on Mueller eventually.
We'll get there.
49 is up.
I was watching it the other day.
Yeah, what they said it was Jay is a fucking liar.
Today's Friday.
Oh, my God.
It's a day.
What did I do all Thursday?
Yeah, we lost that day.
It's gone.
We can get back an idea.
I had an idea because the first time I came on, I read a check tingle.
If you want for the stream, I can read you a check tingle story.
If you want story time.
Rags apparently.
I've got a great one.
It's a spooky story.
It's a spooky check tingle story.
If you want, I can read you all for your chat.
And then I've got a bugger off because I've got to help out the CJ.
Get ready.
My ass is haunted by the gay unicorn colonel.
And I can read that story.
Yeah, he's also gay and and a unicorn.
I take orders from that man.
Everyone in chat is saying yes, not to.
I don't I don't know that I mean, I don't think they'd say no to anything.
But yes, go ahead.
Find something the chat would say no to.
Do you want to see Quentin's nudes?
Oh, no.
Would you do this?
Oh, no.
You're a bad man.
No, no, there's some at this.
No, people would shop on Luke's Island.
Anyway, proceed along the longman pikeman.
See, brain's melting.
Okay.
So I will tell you about what stallion.
I'm here to give you a lovely, lovely treat in the morning.
All of you are some of you at work and things.
So maybe make sure your boss doesn't hear this.
They might get aroused and give you a promotion.
Right.
I have no idea what's happening now.
I'm excited.
Okay.
Is everyone sitting comfortably?
Yeah.
Children, are you sitting comfortably?
There we'll begin.
This is My Ass is Haunted by the Gay Unicorn Colonel by Chuck Tingle.
As I approach the old plantation house,
my body fills with a strange sensation.
It's a feeling that is not entirely new to me,
but it is also one strictly reserved for occasions
of extreme tension and caution.
To call this emotion fear is flat out incorrect.
It is not fear, but something even deeper and more subliminal.
This feeling is the remnant of a long forgotten instinct,
one that taps deep into my mind and then connects itself
to some other world, some other plane of existence.
And then, just like that, the feeling disappears.
A chill runs down my spine as I look up at the windows
of the old mansion framed between two large weeping
willows here in the deep forest of northern Georgia.
For a moment, I catch a glimpse of someone standing in the window
of a second-story bedroom, a unicorn with a long white mane
and a large pearly white horn.
The majestic beast moves out of the way as soon as I see him.
Letting the curtain fall back into place.
Hello there!
The voice of an elderly woman suddenly calls from the front porch.
Welcome to Blue Bayou Bed and Breakfast.
I smile and wave as my gaze falls upon a small old lady
in her casual summer wear, hurrying down the steps to greet me.
When I booked my room, I had no idea I would be receiving
such a warm welcome, and it's a pleasant relief
from the usual indifference that I get from places like this.
Get in, pay us, get out is usually the motto,
especially when the ghost sightings have reached a level of notoriety
that turns an establishment into a less of a bed and breakfast
and more of a tourist trap.
You must be Roger, the old woman says, taking one of my bags.
I'm Melody.
It's nice to meet you.
Come along right this way.
It all happens so fast that I barely have time to protest.
Oh, come on now.
I'll carry my bags up, I tell her.
Legitimately worried that she's about to break her bones,
simply hoisting up my leather workender.
Weekender, rather.
Don't be silly, Melody creaks, in her own cheerful way.
You're my guest.
I so rarely get guests anymore.
I sigh and follow her up to the front porch and into the house.
I thought people were coming from all over the world
to catch a glimpse of Colonel Peach's ghost.
Shouldn't that be bringing in some business?
Oh, it did for a while, Melody tells me,
placing my bag in the entryway and then leading me into the dining room.
But it seems like people aren't interested in history like they used to be.
Nobody cares about an old Civil War spirit, I guess.
As I round the corner of the dining room,
I'm immediately hit with the pleasant aroma of savoury delicious food.
There are two places set at the end of the table.
One for Melody, and one for me.
And an entire assortment of roast vegetables,
grilled meats, and a cauldron of soup in the middle.
Oh my God, I guess, Winstonishment.
You can't be serious.
This looks incredible.
Well, I figured you probably had a long journey today,
so I figured I'd whip up some dinner, Melody explains.
It's just the two of us tonight, but I reckon that
if I'm going to go through the trouble of cooking, I might as well do it right.
Melody sits down in her chair and I follow suit,
smiling graciously as she dishes up some of the creamy soup into a bowl and hands it to me.
Even if I don't see any kernel ghosts on this trip,
this is still one hell of a bed and breakfast.
Can I ask, I start, if it's just the two of us here,
then who was that unicorn upstairs when I drove in?
Upstairs, Melody asks, slightly confused.
Yeah, he was staring down at me from the far left window, I explain.
Melody freezes as she hears this,
a smile slowly creeping across her wrinkled old face.
A unicorn, you say?
I nod, not quite seeing what the big deal is at this point.
Melody sits in silence for just a moment longer and then stands up.
Dinner can wait for just a moment.
I think you'll want to see this.
The elderly woman leaves the dining room and heads back across the hall
to what appears to be the main living quarters.
Two sofas, a fireplace, a mantle, and hanging above it, a massive oil painting.
I follow Melody, but the second that I lay my eyes upon the strange portrait,
I stop, gazing up in wonder at the incredible sight that suspends before me.
There, in the thick strokes of vivid color, sits a familiar face,
one that I recognize almost immediately.
It's the unicorn that I spotted in the window upstairs.
This creature looks absolutely regal, sitting atop a horse with a wind
blowing through his sparkling unicorn mane.
He's wearing a dark uniform and carrying a flag that waves in the wind behind him.
Is that the unicorn that you saw in the window, Melody asks?
I nod.
That's Colonel Peach.
He's been dead since the Civil War, the old woman informs me.
This information is almost too shocking to comprehend,
a revelation so strange that I have to silently repeat it back to myself
over and over again until finally it clicks.
I had just seen the ghost with my very own eyes.
Melody is kind enough to let me stay in the Colonel's old chambers tonight,
which is precisely the room that I saw this single horned ghost just hours earlier.
The room is slightly chilly but beautifully arranged, featuring heavy oak furniture
that has probably been here since the manor was built all those years ago.
The room itself gives me that same spooky feeling that I got upon arrival at these
haunted grounds, an eerie kind of presence that seems to be lurking within each and every shadow.
As it grows later, the silver moonlight begins to stretch longer into the room.
I'm lying in bed, reading quietly over some recently published papers on the paranormal.
Suddenly, I jump a loud knock against the hardwood floors,
drawing my attention to the closed bedroom door before me.
Hello, I call out.
Miss Melody?
This particular room has not yet been retrofitted for modern electricity,
so I have been reading by candlelight.
I glance over as the tiny flames flickers and struggle to stay alive,
fighting against some strange cold wind as it gusts through the room with supernatural speed.
There is no response to my inquisitive call, but as I listen closely,
I can frankly hear what appears to be the wild cries of a civil war battle,
the sounds echoing within my ears.
I can hear the clap of muskets firing and the shouting of battle commands.
A bugle rings out over the sound of thundering hooves as soldiers ride into battle.
It's an utterly frightening illusion in its stark realness,
and I can only perceive as false because it simply makes no sense.
My heart pounding within my chest, I watch as the door knob to my bedroom begins to turn slowly.
There is a loud metallic click, and then, moments later,
the door itself starts to open as a dark figure emerges.
You're called, comes the voice of Melody.
I let out a massive sigh of both relief and, of course, disappointment.
I'm here to see a ghost, after all.
Did you hear that?
Hear what, Melody asks.
All of the fighting, those war sounds, I continue.
Melody just shakes her head.
No, I'm afraid that I didn't, but it sounds like being in this room has spooked you quite a bit.
Are you sure you don't want me to put you up somewhere else?
Oh, no, I tell the caring elderly woman, I'm here to see the Colonel,
and this seems like the best place to do it.
Melody turns to leave, and then stops for a moment, hesitating.
She turns back around.
Roger, why is it that you're so interested in seeing these spirits for yourself?
I take a deep breath, closing my book and setting it down on the back bedside table next to me.
Long ago, when I was just a 19-year-old freshman out of school, I took a trip to Spain.
It was incredible.
The food, the men, I tell her, letting Melody in on a subtle hint about my sexuality,
in case she didn't already notice.
Anyway, I was there for a month, and during that time,
I met a beautiful white unicorn named Port Paolo.
He was so handsome, and so good to me.
I rode around the city on his back all day, and in evenings,
Paolo would take me back to his flat, and we would make love.
Melody gets a faint little twinkle in her eye.
That sounds very sweet, I nod.
It was, it was.
Back in those days, unicorns and human relationships were looked down upon,
but we didn't care.
When Paolo and me were together, it was like we could take on anything, change the world.
I don't know if you'll believe in soulmates, Miss Melody, but I can assure you they are real.
I believe, Melody says, smiling to herself.
Then I'm guessing you know what it's like to lose your soulmate as well, I say,
tearing up a bit.
You see, Paolo the unicorn was hoof-hearted, meaning his heart was the size of a hoof.
Much too small for a unicorn of his size.
I didn't know at the time, but he only had a few weeks left to live.
As I say, this Melody places her hand over her heart,
hurting for me as I remember my long-lost lover.
After Paolo passed away, I continue.
I've been obsessed with the afterlife.
I just want to know if he's still out there somewhere, my handsome Spanish unicorn.
I'm sure he's out there, Melody assures me.
Looking down on you.
We stand in silence for a moment before Melody nods and backs out into the hallway.
She closes the door quietly behind her.
I grab my book off the bedside table and start to read again.
I only make it a few sentences in before the words start to blur together in a meaningless mess.
Getting emotional about Paolo, my unicorn lover has made me tired.
And before I know it, I find myself drifting off to sleep.
I'm not sure how long I've been out when I awaken,
but I sit up abruptly and suck in a huge gasp of air.
My book, which had been resting on my luck, falls to the floor next to the bed with a light thump
as I attempt to figure out exactly what it was that startled me awake so abruptly.
Faintly, I can hear my own name drifting through the night air.
It sounds as though it's coming from right outside my window,
emanating from somewhere in the front yard of this spooky old manor.
Cautiously, I climb to my feet and tiptoe over to the window,
looking out onto the moon-soaked lawn.
My breath catches in my throat.
There, before me, in all of his majestic unicorn ghost glory is Colonel Peach.
The unicorn colonel sits atop his powerful steed in full uniform,
looking up at me as I gaze down at him.
He's just as handsome as the painting that hangs downstairs,
and despite my best efforts, I almost immediately find myself just as aroused as I am afraid.
The sound of my own name still echoes through the trees.
Roger, Roger, it's as if the unicorn colonel is begging me to run down to him
and let him pick me up in his big, strong ghost arms.
Compelled by some supernatural force, I turn away from the window,
ready to sprint down to the colonel and give myself to him.
But he's already here with me.
I stop abruptly, shocked as I discover that the ghost has somehow
instantly appeared within my room, no more than five feet away.
Now that I'm this close, I can see that the colonel's body is slightly transparent,
shimmering faintly as it sparkles with a strange unicorn magic.
I can also see now how incredibly handsome this beast is,
from his pearly horn to his heavy hooves,
which poke out from the pants of his beautiful Civil War uniform.
Roger, the unicorn colonel says, I have come here to deliver a message from beyond.
I have come to bring you a message from Paolo.
The sound of my dead lover's name causes my heart to skip a beat.
What is it, I stomach?
Tell me!
As I say the words, I can feel a slight tingling begin deep within my ass
in a place that only Paolo could reach with this massive unicorn cock.
In this moment, I realize that Paolo's spirit is inside of me, haunting my ass.
Paolo has a messy...
Wait, is this like a whole book?
No, no, no, no.
No way.
We just get to the spicy bit.
Just for clarification, how much more of the unicorn colonel
is this?
You know what, Voxus, you love reading that shit, don't you?
Um, I think I love the reactions more.
From now on, when Voxus reads these,
he puts his hands on the top of the desk, just to make sure.
Anyway, are we gonna get to the ass-banditry or not?
Oh, yes.
Paolo has a message from the great beyond, the unicorn colonel tells me.
A message of passion and fire, a message of love.
I can feel it, I admit.
I can feel him deep within my butt, the unicorn colonel nods.
Yes, but he's always been there, haunting your ass while you worked, slept, cried.
He was there all along, I repeat, the unicorn colonel nods.
Even though he's not powerful enough yet to manifest himself in the physical form,
he wanted me to pleasure you the way that he cannot.
At first, I'm not exactly sure what Colonel Peach is saying,
the strange invitation bouncing off of my brain a few times before finally sinking in.
When I realize what he's getting at, however,
I can't help being overwhelmed with a powerful arousal that immediately floods into my veins.
You mean, Paolo wants us to fuck?
I ask my voice trembling.
He wants to give you pleasure, says the colonel.
And right now, this is the best way for him to do that.
I close my eyes and try to grapple with the idea of giving myself to a lover other than Paolo.
Since Paolo's death, I hadn't slept with a single soul, unicorn or otherwise,
and the idea alone seemed daunting.
Still, just the suggestion had gotten me so worked up,
my dick rock hard within my box of wreaths and just begging to be unleashed.
Besides, this is what Paolo wants for me.
I swallow hard and then step forward so that I'm just inches away from the ghostly unicorn.
I want you, I say, letting my hand drift down lower and lower
until it reaches Colonel Peach's belt buckle, which I unclasp.
I want you too, the handsome dead unicorn says, finally giving in.
I undo his belt and then slowly unzip the colonel's pants,
which reveal no civil war era underwear underneath.
Instead, I'm greeted by the sight of these beautiful throbbing member
which springs forth from the fabric as soon as I let it.
Colonel Peach is hard as a rock and aching to be touched,
his enormous unicorn cock jutting fiercely out towards me.
I smile and slowly drop down into a squat before the beast
so that his shaft is pointed directly at my chiseled face
and then look up at him with my soulful gay eyes.
Do you want me to suck you off, I ask, playfully, for Paolo?
The unicorn colonel doesn't answer.
Silent for a moment as he takes me in with his eerie ghostly presence,
he seems just as fascinated by me as I am of him.
I said, do you want me to suck off that big fat unicorn cock of yours, I repeat.
Finally, Colonel Peach breaks his silence,
the single word barely making it out of his gently parted lips alive.
Yes, with that I open wide and engulf Colonel Peach's cock with my mouth,
pushing my head down along the length of his shaft
until I reach the edge of my gag reflex.
I close my eyes and focus, relaxing my body
until finally I feel comfortable going even deeper.
Eventually, I reach the base of his shaft with my lips,
my face pushed right up against Colonel Peach's hard unicorn abs
as he fills my throat entirely.
The creature lets out a long satisfied moon,
his entire body shaking from my masterful deep throat.
I can feel the colonel's hoof hands press gently on the back of my head,
and he holds me there, hesitating,
as if he's still not entirely sure that he wants to commit to this favor for a ghostly friend.
But the ship has already sailed,
and as I reach up and begin to play with the beast's hanging balls that rest against my chin,
the feeling is just too much for Colonel Peach to ignore.
He starts to pump me up and down his shaft slowly at first,
and then gaining speed as the waves of pleasure start to overwhelm him.
I look up at the colonel and we lock eyes,
his cock planted firmly in my throat.
I can't help but give him a playful little wink,
and suddenly he's over the edge completely,
a crazed look of sexual passion,
overwhelming his expression as he rocks his hips against me.
I slowly pull his unicorn pants farther and farther down
until he's able to step out of them, releasing Colonel Peach from my mouth.
I stand up and give him a deep kiss.
Lie down on the bed, I instruct.
The unicorn ghosts start to protest lightly,
but I'm firm with my instructions.
I grab his hoof in my hand and then force it down the front of my boxer briefs,
letting him feel the hard thickness of my massive rod.
Do you want this dick? I ask plainly.
I can't, the colonel explains.
I'm a unicorn.
I'll break it.
Me and Paolo used to fuck on our bed all the time, I tell him.
So that's what we're going to do.
The unicorn understands,
and moments later he removes his uniform completely
and climbs up into the massive oak bed,
which creeps under the weight of his massive unicorn body.
You look good, I coup, egging the beast on.
Finding his confidence, Colonel Peach sprawled out on the bed before me,
his cock hard and standing at full attention.
It's much longer and thicker than I had even realised
when it was engulfed within my mouth,
and now that I can fully inspect this translucent ghostly shaft's incredible size,
I'm even more impressed.
I slowly strut across the hardwood floors towards Colonel Peach,
enjoying the way that his eyes flicker and dance across my ripped muscular body.
At this point, he can't help but stare seductively.
I climb up onto the bed and crawl towards him,
popping my gay ass out into the air as I go,
and then eventually positioning myself directly over his huge body.
I take Colonel Peach's hooves and pull them above his head,
controlling him completely as I make my way
down to his ripped chest and abs with a series of sensual kisses.
Despite my newfound confidence, however,
I find myself trembling with anticipation and fear.
I know it's Paolo who wants this,
but I can't keep myself from imagining my lover watching over us,
analysing every move that we make.
Moments later, however, I feel that familiar tingle,
deep within my ass.
A reminder.
I close my eyes and take a deep breath,
and then let go of any reservations I had left within me.
Immediately, I reach down and take Colonel Peach's huge ward into my hand,
aligning him with the puckered tightness of my gay asshole.
Oh, fuck!
The Colonel groans instinctively as I push down onto him,
letting out a soft moan of my own as the powerful beast slides up inside of me.
My asshole, expanding to its limits in an effort to take his brutal insertion.
His presence fills me with a sensation that is familiar and warm,
a distant memory that has been locked away until this very moment.
I bite my lip instinctively and start to grind against him
with the firm deep swoops of my hips.
I'm not fully prepared for the long-forgotten sensation
of being entered by a unicorn lover,
and almost immediately I'm beside myself with pleasure,
my body trembling and quaking as I ride him.
It's as if all the sexual bliss that I've been staving myself from
has been here the whole time, hiding away in some dark corner of my being
and just waiting to be released by the white gay beast.
Oh, my God!
I pout loudly, repeating the words over and over again.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God!
Colonel Peach's hooves are on my hips,
helping to pull me up and down across him in an incredible pulsing rhythm.
I can feel all of this powerful strength of his minor touch.
He's showing restraint, his body handling me firmly but with care.
Let go, I tell him.
Just pound me like my dead unicorn lover would.
That does the trick.
Suddenly, Colonel Peach is sitting up and flipping me over
with his muscular unicorn legs, turning me around
so that I'm facing away from him.
On my hands and knees, I look back at him and smile.
There's a loud crack as Colonel Peach slaps my ass with a hoof hard.
Then he grabs me by my hips and pulls me back towards him with ease.
He takes his cock and maneuvers it into the entrance of my anal tightness.
There's a fire in Colonel Peach's eyes as he thrusts into me the massive rod,
feeling my butthole entirely as I cry out with a yelp of pleasure.
Colonel Peach wastes no time now, immediately getting to work
as he rams my body from behind.
I grip tightly onto the bedsheets in front of me,
bracing myself against the unicorn Colonel's powerful slams.
There is an animalistic nature to his thrusting now, more brazen than sensual,
but the ghostly creature still knows exactly how to hit my prostate on the inside.
Somehow, this is even more of a turn on than before,
his gentlemanly demeanor finally cracking before my very eyes,
the poker face slipping away and finally revealing the sexual beast underneath.
Harder!
I scream back at him, even more turned on in more, never turned,
more, ah, fuck, never more turned on in my entire life.
Fuck me harder like the little human twink that I am.
Colonel Peach doesn't need to be told twice, picking up speed
until he is absolutely pummeling me with everything that he's got,
slamming my asshole from behind with gay, reckless abandon.
I reach down and grab hold of my cock, beating myself off furiously.
Deep within my stomach, I can now feel the first beautiful sparks of orgasm begin to fly,
lighting that tiny fire that slowly but surely begins to creep its way across my body.
I can't help but start to tremble and quake as the sensation consumes me,
filling me with a strange warmth from head to toe.
The tremors of pleasure sensation coming in awesome waves,
the space between them drawing shorter until finally
it just becomes one giant ball of pleasure that envelops my body.
I clench my teeth tightly and let it along his,
frantically grasping at the last straws of reality
before a powerful orgasm pushes me over the edge.
I am outside myself now, looking down at my body as I come,
harder than ever, jizz erupts from the head of my cock,
splattering onto the bedsheets before me in a beautiful pattern of milky white.
It's a satisfaction that can be barely described,
a blinding fullness that consumes me perfectly.
I throw my head back and let out a howl of ecstasy,
unable to contain all of this sensation within.
In this moment, I know that Paolo is with me, haunting my ass with Colonel Peach.
I don't have long to mull on this, however,
because seconds later the Colonel is shaking as well,
his massive unicorn body preparing for an orgasm of his own.
Come all over me, I demand fiercely.
Shoot that load all over this handsome, gay face of mine.
Colonel Peach pulls out and gives his cock three final pumps with his hands,
then grips tightly against the face as a rope of hot jizz ejects out across me.
It feels nice against my skin, playful almost.
The ghostly unicorn throws his head back
and neighs, his abs held firm as several more pumps of cum eject from his shaft
and splatter across my chin.
Thank you, I tell him, when the spunk finally stops falling.
The unicorn looks down at me with a look of satisfaction plastered across his face,
then moments later evaporates into nothing.
I hope you found what you were looking for.
Melody tells me as I carry my bags out to the car.
I smile. I did, actually.
The old woman is very pleased with this answer,
and despite only knowing me for a day, gives me one final hug.
You're a very nice young man, she informs me.
Thanks, Melody, I tell her.
I hope that one day our paths will cross again,
the old woman says as she releases her grip
and I climb into the driver's seat of my car.
I look up at her.
Are you kidding me?
I'll be back within the week.
Barely, Melody asks, her eyes lighting up.
Just don't forget to put some more of that amazing soup on.
As I drive away from the old manor,
I catch a glimpse of two ghostly unicorns
standing off at the edge of a nearby field,
patiently awaiting my return.
End.
That was pretty hot, to be fair.
I have to say, that was very well read.
Voxix did a fantastic job,
considering how long that took, and you're emoting.
Have you considered a career in this?
Um, no.
Yeah, I don't know how to react to this.
Do we clap, or do we cry?
Which is the correct...
Most people usually blacklist me.
We will now take a short 10-minute break.
For a shower.
Yes, I have to go, unfortunately.
Oh, we're going to have to take a cold shower after that.
I was laughing a lot, but I was muted.
But that's my contribution to eFap, so there you go.
As if we could have it any other way.
But you, gentlemen, enjoy the rest of your day.
I can't, anymore.
It's gone now.
It's gone now.
Thanks a lot, Sirius.
It's nice to see you, and we shall see you again in the future.
Our view count didn't drop at all during...
I don't understand!
I was worried.
Well, for Tia, just PM me saying,
why am I listening to game four?
Like most of us in this call, it's actually...
It was, like I said, it was well-performed.
You cannot deny that it was well-performed.
Yeah, I think if anyone else was going to read that,
it was quite the same effect.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think the only other person who could read it is maybe Gilbert Godfrey.
Yeah, congratulations.
Congratulations on your city leave app.
I'm going to go now.
Thanks for having me on.
Sorry, I read gay porn.
Good luck to you, gentlemen.
Enjoy your Friday.
You too, sir.
Oh, yeah.
It'll be great.
It'll be great.
Thanks.
I wasn't prepared for this.
I had to turn on the AC halfway through.
Oh, that makes sense.
Oh, man, I, what a stallion.
You say, when you go from here, you know, that's the question.
Just continue with this.
It's all downhill from here.
And then, oh, man.
That was a peak that cannot be attained ever again.
Can't believe it until we reach another one.
Three and a half hours.
Oh, yeah, three and a half hours remain.
I best get going.
To think I lived to see this day.
Congrats.
Congrats, you masses, for 47 streams.
May you, Muller, be long enough to make it to the end.
And finally, adieu rags.
Adieu?
Adieu?
Did you adieu?
Adieu.
Also, yeah, it'll be 49 on Muller.
But there'll be three going up on there.
They're all going to be 50 in three parts.
Just give it a day or so.
You'll see them.
They're coming.
Also, it looks like Robot Head would like to jump in.
I guess, say hi slash hang out while we go through these.
We've spoken to a lot of people in this past 24 hours.
It's awesome.
That was the plan, wasn't it?
It was the plan.
It went relatively well.
Hey, Muller.
I loved your another life review.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Worked hard on that one.
It's a pretty bad show.
Netflix, you know.
What are you going to do with Netflix, ultimately?
What?
Hello.
Hello there.
Hi.
Can you hear me this time?
I can.
I can hear you.
Can you hear us?
Can you hear us?
Congratulations on the 50.
We did it.
And we are three and a half hours away from completing the 24 hours as well.
By going against all those videos that tell you how to get more followers on YouTube.
Well, we joined the talks.
We created and fulfilled the, let's say, the commandments of the toxic brood.
We went against all odds.
I was catching bits all day, and then I thought I'll see how the guys are going now.
And I thought I'd tune in to see if you'd hit the happy hour.
And I was hearing an old man read about sucking off a cock.
Seems like the time to join in.
Oh, they ever was what those were just as Rags pointed out.
We didn't even lose viewers.
Really?
I don't think we did.
Like how people really invested.
Yeah.
Chat is concerned about Anna.
What did you think of a Voxis's story?
I'll never look at unicorns the same way again.
I wouldn't blame you.
What was it?
A unicorn's cock.
I don't think I love unicorns any different.
Well, it was a kernel.
Can a unicorn be a kernel?
I think that's a conflict.
I don't know.
That's a check law.
He's being a unicorn.
You say that so definitively, Jay.
What do you know about unicorns?
Yeah, what do you know about unicorns?
Two tenths unicorn.
Really?
On your mother's or your father's side?
On my unicorn side.
Well, I know.
Which side is that?
I have three parents.
I have my mother, my father, and my unicorn.
Oh, oh, I guess that's right.
It's like Jesus always watching.
Yeah.
Is that what the hat's for, to cover the horn?
Yeah.
That's there you go.
It's kind of fucked up that your horn sticks out of the back of your head.
Like, yeah.
Or does it wrap around your head?
It's a very weak horn.
It's, uh, it's like a curly horn.
Like, uh, that one he's excited.
Yeah, they're not always sort of pointing out, are they?
You're a mutant.
I'm just, I'm just fucking picturing, like, a creature that has
a perpetually, like, flaccid horn now.
A flaccid horn.
I don't know if it fits in with the lore that you're part unicorn because I can see you.
And you can see me?
Yeah.
Where are you?
Are you outside my house?
Like, like in our little, in our, in our weird mental image thing that we have going on, fat.
Well, we have a psychic link.
No.
Well, it's more of a spiritual connection.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
The spiritual connection.
So, yeah.
Robot head.
I'm currently reading super chats because I've got about a few to get through.
I'm hoping we can do it before we run out of the three and a half hours I have remaining.
Who's the most inconsistent gay person in The Last Jedi?
Inconsistent gay person.
I think it's BB-8.
See, I think why is it getting crossed?
That's, like, two questions that are different put together, right?
I'll cross his wires.
Yes.
Um, by the way, I'm very consistent.
Think about how good sex robots are on the Star Wars universe because you know they exist.
I want to ask you, are you aware of this that I've put in the, in the chat?
Where is it?
It's an interesting response to one of your videos.
Oh, robot has been responded to.
Yeah.
It's the same guy who responded to me.
We just have had it in the first place.
Has he responded to me yet?
I did, I did TLJ stuff.
No, he has not responded.
I think your videos are too long for him to respond to.
Aw.
Hang on, let's, I'm in the podcast talk.
That's not the right spot, is it?
No, no, uh, the, the, the group you're talking to us, yeah.
He's done, it's a best movie.
He's done me, robot head, he's done you, and he's also done Shad's video on The Last Jedi.
Oh, really?
He's also done Sargon and been like, I know he says this is a parody,
but I'm pretty sure he believes all this stuff anyway.
Oh.
Which is a great, a great way to say it.
A great thing to do.
I remember cracking the Sargon snowflake video.
He was shocked that it did so well, because he was just fucking around as far as I remember, anyway.
I don't know what he thinks.
Um, what?
Yeah, well, you can obviously look into that if you want to.
I might check it out as well, but I was gonna say, I gotta,
I keep stopping and starting all these.
I've really gotta make sure I actually read the web.
I can't really remember that one too well, but the one on me is insane.
So give it a go.
Oh, so I'm not just including the whole video on me.
Shall we save it for Efap?
I would totally look forward to that.
Yeah, we could totally have you on to Efap if you want in future.
Yes, yes, definitely.
Yes, you heard him, yes.
We would do it now, like I said, but I haven't actually gone through these.
So again, here we go.
Congratulations, guys.
Here's to many, here's to many ore Efaps.
I think there's supposed to be many more Efaps.
No, no, ore like gold, silver and gold.
Hail the toxic brood and the cosmic chicken.
Been watching since Patrick's plot holes video.
You don't cut out there, young'un.
Yeah, I did.
Oh my god.
It could be that my voice is getting less loud because of my...
We had more copper ore that you could use for your electrical connections.
I'm losing spunk, you know?
Just get a bit of spunk in yourself to get going.
After that story, I think I'm going to lose some spunk too.
Yeah, that's kind of the implication.
You can use that way in multiple ways.
So been watching since Patrick's plot holes video,
and I love the streams ever since.
Keep up the great work.
Two.
Yeah, that's a long, that's a 48 episode fan at the very least.
Wow, that's who.
He is wise in the way of the ancient ways.
What a day.
A breaking Benjamin concert and the Efap anniversary at once.
Thank you all for a year of amazing content.
Slide and dice forever.
Robert Head, he's done two about you.
Damn.
Oh, I've just tried a second one.
I'm surprised I haven't heard of it.
You mentioned some dragons last time.
What is your history such future with World of Warcraft?
Do you care for classic?
Asking molar mainly.
I literally know nothing about World of Warcraft.
Does anyone here?
Those female Tarans are thick.
Like the pandaren, the pandaren.
Yeah, they thick.
They dummy thick.
Well, they're apparently interested in my take on it.
I'm afraid it's very worthless and that's rags is.
So yeah, I hope that that answers what you were looking for.
I'd fucking shit out of a panda.
There you go.
It's also just 5% of first day box office gross.
Oh, that's in relation to the Spider-Man thing.
Bringing a whole new meaning to Spider-Man is out.
What's, why am I blanking on this?
Spider-Man is out.
Spider-Man is out of the MCU.
But when was that phrase used previously?
Spider-Man.
Why are you talking about X Spider-Man is coming out?
Oh, right.
Oh, no.
That's not what they meant when they say that Spider-Man is coming out.
Spider-Man is getting booted out.
Why are we talking about Spider-Man?
Not quite.
Congrats on Efap 50, you mad lads.
Did you catch the last high council?
EBS, Jeremy, Ana, Mecha, and Cecil did an Efap or Major Lee's review of the fandom
menace video.
It was hilarious.
I've seen that video.
I think I've watched like 80% of it.
A lot.
Very entertaining.
I'm glad they all got to experience Major Lee in his prime.
It's just wonderful.
I told Jeremy you should totally have him on.
Just sort of podcast.
Go to, you know, 20 minutes.
Maybe eject him after that.
But, you know, I'd like to see you all interact with him.
I'd love to see Ethan interact with him.
That would be hilarious.
Major Lee's totally a good dude.
He would treat you well.
I'm sure of it.
Right, Rags.
You'd recommend him as a guest.
I'm hesitant to do that.
A resounding yes.
He is such a fun person.
It's not at all like talking to an autistic child.
All right, you tismites.
Prepare your anuses for the next 24 hours.
God, that's like a 24-hour-old super chat.
Yeah, he's taken down the one he did about me.
Oh, no, I didn't save it.
Oh, no.
If anyone has the robot head ones, save the world.
It's download them.
It's the one where he says where I say, oh, people who care about plot holes,
they're like, they're not wrong for caring that the story doesn't stack up.
And his response to that is to say, yes, they are.
It sounds like Major League.
Well, it sounds like fucking Patrick Willems.
It's like you're watching movies wrong.
It's like, ah, OK.
Happy Efap 50, my n-words.
Why thank you.
More like a new video.
Although I'm not sure why you did go into the whole fairy stuff.
Rags, you lazy doggo.
Do something.
I've watched all of your videos three times and I wasn't bored.
Oh, I well, at least I got a new one out and I've already started on the next one.
I've already started on the next one.
And I'm I'm I'm fully still working on my Game of Thrones one.
It'll be out.
It's coming.
It's on its way.
It's coming this way.
All right.
The 24 torture begins.
Be long and strong.
We we nearly nearly made it.
Yeah, you beautiful bastards.
Love you.
Love you too.
Yes.
So the 50th episode ends my movie binge updates as I'm going off to college
and I won't be able to catch Efap live anymore.
Thank you all so much for hearing and discussing my opinions on films.
No matter how dumb.
Love you guys.
Predators still bad.
The new one.
Yeah.
The old one's fucking great.
Yes.
It's been wonderful.
See your movie updates.
Have fun in college.
I suppose.
Hope it goes well.
Have fun.
Don't get shot.
Don't you?
Yeah, that's a that's a plus if you achieve that.
It will ruin your day.
Well, if you don't achieve that, it makes sense.
Oh, shit.
It's here.
Rags.
I love you.
I shall get that dog butt.
All right.
Here it is.
Do you think can you handle it?
Son.
Happy 50th.
I'd like to recommend responding to Pawn Story Games someday.
He's takes on video games are pretty nuclear.
Also, get Aiden Paladin on the show.
I believe you should be on the list.
Yeah, I think she's on the list.
There's a it's a confusing list.
But yes, and as for Pawn Story Games,
the one video I think we were going to look at at one point
was the one where he says there's no such thing as bad graphics.
That was an interesting take.
I was going to check out.
But I think he's also interested in coming on.
I don't know.
Well, yeah, we'll have to see.
Excited for the next 24 hours with you, my Massives.
Good luck in this objectively massive journey.
Godspeed.
Hi, Rags.
Well, I guess.
Hi, Rags.
You want to just.
Yeah.
No, right.
Yes.
So hi, Rags is the opening.
Hello.
Hi.
All equals thoughts on Valkyria Chronicles.
I don't know what that is.
I've never played Valkyria Chronicles.
I've heard good things, but I have not played it.
Why am I getting a lot of who in the chat?
You mean he's responded?
Why am I getting loads of who in the chat?
Are they asking for the response?
Oh, who?
Yeah, is squirrel in an oyster?
Sheep in the box.
Sheep in the box.
It's made six videos about why, well, seven, but one of me has been taken down.
And it was intended for us to cover with criticized TLJ.
We were going to cover his video on Jay in a future Efap as a wonderful completion of his arc.
But now we don't get to.
Thanks a lot, Sheep in the Box.
My arc has been taken from me.
Fucking gay.
Yep.
Does anyone else want to share their thoughts on Valkyria Chronicles?
All righty, then.
I've heard good things.
Thanks.
I'm seeing Lord of the Rings Extended Edition being hosted at my local cinema in honor of Wolf.
Like, yeah, there's no bad time to see Lord of the Rings Extended Editions.
It's so solid.
So good.
Hello, Big M.
First time I catch you live, wish Rags was around.
Thanks for the laughs and have a great stream.
Oh, this is before Rags jumped in.
Yeah.
New Efap?
Yeah, I was still getting all horizontal.
New Efap looks like organizing my stamp collection has to wait.
Why?
I don't even organize stamps while listening to your campaign.
You organize them by year or by country?
I guess we'll find them.
By size and shape.
Well, they're all okay.
That makes it really easy.
Well, no, they can be different sizes.
They'll probably most people don't be square-ish shaped.
But they'll be big and small.
Oh, you could order them by width instead if you want to challenge.
I really thought you were going to say by weight.
You could do that, too.
You could probably do that.
Yeah, both are equally absurd.
These are definitely very high tier.
Do it.
Or by weight.
Yes, starting at your lightest and then working your way towards the heaviest stamps.
No licking allowed to change the weight of the stamps.
Agreed.
Put your heaviest stamp on a little plinth.
This is the heaviest stamp.
Give it a little heavy stamp crown.
Yes, take your lightest stamp in one hand and your heaviest stamp in the other hand,
and then see if you can feel it.
Or spin around in circles.
Hold them in your hand.
Spin around in circles like a helicopter and see if it knocks you off balance.
Or, or, or, or, or take your lightest stamp and then mail yourself somewhere.
Right.
And then take your heaviest stamp and then mail yourself to the same place just at a different
time and see which one arrives fastest.
If you're, they themselves are in both packages.
No, no, you're not in both packages.
There are many variables that could change the speed in which you deliver the race.
Yeah, that's a good point.
So for every stamp, no, for every stamp, every one of the stamps, mail yourself five times
to get an average, right?
It'll be easy because you may mail yourself there, but fuck up the address so they have
to send it back to the original.
That's how you can save on postage, right?
So then do that.
No, let's change it to six because you need an even number for your trip staring back.
I think a 50 just to make sure that you get a nice.
That'd give you a great average, but I don't, I think that would sort of test the limits
of human patients.
Oh yeah, that would test the limits of human patients.
What is EFAP if not a test of the limits of human patients?
I mean, I put up with it.
As do I.
Nobody else says that.
And then just record like how long it takes.
And then you'll see which one of your stamps is, oh, measure your stamps by speed,
which is the fastest.
No, no, no, no.
When you take your stamps and then see, measure them from quietest to loudest.
Measure them by tight.
Put your quietest stamps up front.
Right.
And then slowly but surely the stamps get louder and louder and louder and louder until
they get your loudest stamp at the end.
Measure them by the guide account.
I would be interested in comparing the quietest and the loudest stamp just to see what that
turned out to be.
Do you think a loud stamp would get you delivered faster?
Because they'd be like, oh, fuck, this one's loud.
Get it out.
Get it out.
Go, go, go, go, go.
On the truck.
On the truck in the plane.
Sure.
Okay.
Anyway, make Jay watch Lord of the Rings Extended Editions one per eight hours.
Jay, it's on you, buddy.
I'm not forcing you to do that.
Can you finish a Lord of the Rings extended movie in eight hours?
Well, it says one per eight.
So yeah, I told you you can do that.
I think you might be able to squeeze one in.
Yeah.
Hi, more.
Would you ever do video or videos on the films from the DCEU?
Like Justice League, Suicide Squad, et cetera.
PS, love your Captain Marvel vid.
I'm not very passionate about the DCEU.
So like with when it comes to the MCU, I've like watched all of the movies in the series
more than twice, I think.
So I've got a lot of like, you know, interest, knowledge, passion,
as opposed to the DCEU where I'm just like, good God, what a wet sock.
I can't wait to-
That's not very super of you, bro.
No, it's not.
I'm not a super.
I'm not a super.
Are you a soup?
I'm not a soup or super or a superhero.
I'm going to go with a classic one as well.
What flavor of soup are you?
Loud.
Happy, happy food.
Um, only 23 hours and 49 minutes left.
Oh my, that's where I'm at with the super chats.
Jesus, you're only 10 minutes in.
Wait, we're not.
No, we're not only 10 minutes in, are we?
Yeah, we've still got another 23 hours of streaming to go, Rags, at least.
Son of a fucking bitch.
Listen, I don't know if I can do it.
Okay, okay.
I can do like three and a half hours, maybe.
Three hours-ish.
I'm thinking three hours and five minutes.
What about that?
Uh, if you give me a couple loud stamps, I can get there.
I can get there three days or less, so your money back.
What about loud soup?
Loud soup?
I'm not.
I had some broccoli earlier.
Was it loud?
It was.
Did it speak to you?
It didn't say anything.
What did it say?
But we will meet again.
I know that.
Can't catch this live, gents.
He's just passing through, really.
Sleep time for the fist.
Sleep time for the fist.
Sleep time for the fist?
That makes this sound like he hurts people.
He punches them, but it's time to go to sleep fist.
Happy 50th, you beautiful much of men.
I am a macho man.
Even though I don't wear leather pants.
Congrats on 50 more.
Love your work.
Spider-Man was good.
Rags is a degenerate fairy.
I am not that.
Aquaman 2 comes out.
Which of those are you refuting?
Which of those two description words are you refuting?
Adjectives?
Yeah, that's well known, because furry is a noun.
No, furry is very much an adjective.
No, but in the context, it was being used.
If you get too high and you need to calm down, what do you stroke?
What?
If you're too high and you need to calm down and get your bearings,
what do you stroke?
You stroke the furry wall.
Stroke the furry wall.
You don't know that reference?
No, I don't.
Damn.
All right.
Sorry, anyone else know that reference in the cast here?
Yeah, I wasn't listening.
Yeah, I get him to agree.
Me, I said.
I don't even I can't even remember if that movie was shit or not,
because it's been so long.
I enjoyed it.
I think I've enjoyed it both times.
So I think I've I think I enjoyed it.
Like Soldier with Kurt Russell.
You mean Roode Castle?
Roode Castle.
His gnome dolscher.
His gnome?
What?
His gnome.
Aquaman 2 comes out on December 16th, 2022.
Same day as the D&D first Star Wars film.
Which do you think will be the number one of the box office?
My money's on Aquaman 2.
Love the first one.
Wait, why would you release a movie about swimming in December?
That's a bullshit.
I think there's a chance Aquaman could beat out the Tismi Star Wars movie,
but who knows?
Who knows?
Oh, God, it might.
Completely no.
Even if it is.
I mean, I didn't really follow what he said.
I didn't want it to if you wanted to go like on a swim.
If you watched Aquaman and you got really into it and you're like,
man, I feel like going swimming like, well, fuck.
It's December 16th.
It's cold as shit.
I got to go.
Not everywhere.
Not everywhere.
I mean, places that matter.
The sun doesn't matter.
Yeah.
The sun literally sustains all life on Earth.
The sun is shit.
Wow.
You're going to qualify that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just one big nuclear orgasm of stupid.
What's the sun ever done for me?
What's the sun ever done for me?
Oh, I had broccoli earlier.
The sun helped make me broccoli earlier.
There you go.
That's fair enough.
I accept that the sun has done something for me.
Starting binge watching Buffy because of you and Fortia Mauler.
I'm nearly done with season four now.
It's so good.
Yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
Let the Tisms begin.
Also, Hi, Mauler.
Hello, Thrawnic.
How do?
What about the adaptation argument when it comes to comic multiverse?
So not an adaptation, but a different version.
No different than Peter B. Parker.
MCU is confirmed as part of a comic multiverse.
Is the new, like, Marvel series going to be a new universe?
Or are they, like, sticking with this post Thanos universe?
Is the question...
Is the question that can you even make a faithfulness argument
if it's all different multiverse things?
You know, the implication being that they're supposed to be different.
People can just whine about whatever they want to whine about.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know if I have an answer to that.
I don't know what they'd say.
We'd have to ask Shad if he was here or or Nidrotik or Jeff.
I don't know how Spider-Man's multiverse works.
Come on.
We don't let Australians come on.
No.
Nope.
No Australians here.
Never will be one on EFAP.
Not a single one.
We got rules.
Epic.
Happy New Year.
Have you guys seen Jared's video on Wolf?
It's nice.
Jared's doing some weird stuff lately.
He's got a lot of visuals.
That's one way to put it.
Jared's in an odd place.
Well, no, he's in the same place he's always been.
He just has a microphone in front of him again.
Jared's just a strange person.
He's insane.
Yeah, he's cross paths with a lot of different content creators as well.
It's like leaving into his own drunken peasants.
Individually, he's got videos on Ben and Billy the Fridge.
Billy the Fridge is apparently the one that raised awareness of all the shit that was
going on with him.
He felt betrayed because he really likes Billy the Fridge, apparently.
This is what I've been told.
I follow it from pieces of information I see scattered on my Discord.
Or Ben.
It was the one he said he wanted to kill.
That was before it got worse.
Technically, well, it depends on how you look at it in terms of it got worse or better.
I don't know.
Well, certainly not better.
It got worse.
Worse things.
Lots of other things happen.
He's in a place right now where he's got a shit ton of people that despise him, basically.
Jared's a crazy person.
Can you release a watch list of Buffy episodes?
As I understand it, you didn't make Wolf watch every episode.
Don't die from this 24 hour season eight episode five went.
It's on the way.
And yeah, so this is my recommendation is season one of Buffy watch episode one, two,
three, seven and the finale.
That's season one.
And then, you know, I'd have to get actually have to look at the listings for season two
to know which ones are really worth skipping.
But typically speaking, just watch all of the rest of it at that point.
Season one's just got a few bumpy moments.
But if you intend to watch the whole thing, watch the whole thing.
The whole reason I skip people on it is if they're very uncertain, if they want to spend
their time on it.
So I'm like, I'll get you to the better shit to prove to you that it's worthwhile.
And believe me, Wolf was blown away thinking about how we start in season one and where
you end up in season six.
Do you give the Buffy bumpy moments?
Or a feast?
I asked my Nana the Star Wars episode nine question.
She picked Finn.
She thinks it's the most logical answer.
I had the same answer.
Yeah.
A lot of people are voting Finn.
We will find out the answer to that.
It's going to be fascinating.
Well, my logic of picking Hux is because the two different directors have them as
essentially completely polar opposite characters.
It's a good choice.
This is the problem.
There's lots of good choices.
I also chose a good choice.
Emperor Palpatine.
I think Ray is the worst choice because she's going to be as stagnant and perfect as ever.
Yeah, she's just going to be Finn.
Yeah, it's a shit one, too.
He's still going to say that.
But there's more to his character.
You think he's just going to be like an Asian or a little Mexican boy?
Yeah, qualify your statements, Jay.
Yeah, Jay.
I think he's going to be a different race in every scene.
Oh, that would be so progressive.
He'd be like a horse of a different color from the Wizard of Oz when they go to the Emerald City.
And a different gender.
Oh, I don't know if you could call him like the man of a different color.
And I don't know.
That might be considered insensitive.
They could cover him in like dyed jelly and you have to stop him from licking it off like the horse did.
I hope they feed him on set.
Loud jelly.
The jelly.
No, the jelly's got to be quiet.
You got to hear the lines and everything in the scene.
What a loud jelly man.
You don't use loud jelly on the set, Jay.
What can I say?
I'm Maverick.
I was going to say, give him some space, Rags.
He's still learning.
Rose Tico?
Has anyone answered Rose Tico?
No.
She's bad.
She's really not going to be in it that much, right?
As much as beloved as she was from The Last Jedi.
I don't.
Yeah, that's the crazy thing.
She was probably the fan favorite.
And yet she wasn't even in that teaser trailer.
Can you believe it?
Shocker.
I'm glad.
I didn't see your fucking face one time.
Is it true?
Also, I just wanted to say that that poll, the dawn seems to have definitively won it.
Yeah, it seems to be rather.
We do.
Objectively won it.
Robot head.
We did a test for what is the top meme, the apex meme of Efap.
We had a bunch of suggestions in there.
The dawn won out.
That was born on the stream you came on.
I'm very proud.
Do I get an award for that?
You get a participation.
This is your award.
Oh, that image there you go.
Look at that.
Defeated rhino milk.
How do you feel, Jay?
Sad.
Yeah, I shall.
It's it now.
Oh, goodbye.
It was fun.
And yeah, I'll talk to you guys later.
I will speak to you at a later occasion as there is no alternative.
You have to speak to Mel.
No, I well, I don't.
The only alternative to not speaking to him later is to not speak to him at all.
But I imagine that will be the case and I will not speak to him earlier.
This would be good.
Well, you have spoken to him earlier, so that's not true.
I have, but I won't.
I won't.
Oh, so you won't invent time travel.
So will not implies, temporarily speaking, a future event.
What if you don't travel?
Do you know that you won't invent time travel?
I ain't been no time travel.
Oh, hey, Molly.
Still here.
I mean, I thought there was something coming my way, but I guess it just.
Rags was trying to say he's going to miss you more than anyone else here.
No, that's fair enough.
All right, then.
Okay, bye.
I'll be the same.
My phone line.
Goodbye.
Are you gay?
I got a case of monster for this shit.
I got a birdies rejuvenate natural energy drinks.
I got a rock star, but mostly alcohol.
What?
So you say that's my face.
What?
Yeah, it is.
Well, no, it's not.
I like it.
I like the taste.
I don't like monster.
I used to, but I don't know.
I like rock star.
Not is it.
I need I need help.
I actually don't know this.
Is it not or number five?
Well, chat, help me out.
Help me out, chat.
What do you mean?
Like the fifth number?
Is it is it not or number five?
What are you?
You'll know exactly.
Chat is always there in ways in ways that this podcast isn't.
The chat always is.
It's not.
Okay.
Thank you.
Because I didn't know because I didn't because they because,
you know, if you use like like like a five and an S spelled
with straight lines will look the same pretty much.
So on the can, it has the N in the O and then it has the squiggle
for an S, but it could also be a five.
And I didn't know it was awesome.
Number five.
I'm glad you got your answer.
The problem is they can no longer use MCU characters such
as Nick Fury, who is being set up as a huge part of the Spider-Man
of Spider-Man going forward.
The next movie can't reference the events so far from home.
So it'll make no sense.
I think you might be able to get away with it.
It's going to be awkward.
But there's absolutely no involvement from anybody from the MCU, but we'll see.
It's gonna suck.
It's gonna be it's gonna be lame.
It could be terrible.
We'll have to see.
It's also gonna suck because Sony is making it.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Oh, they made Spider-Verse, but only keeping the same director slash writing team.
Oh, are they?
Okay, that's fine.
But Kevin Feige isn't producing, though.
That's the difference.
At least I think that's the case.
I could be wrong.
Mola, why do you have a keyhole?
What?
It's like, of the last five Spider-Man movies, was it one of them has been good from Sony?
Being Spider-Verse.
What, you don't count Spider-Man 2?
No, hang on, no.
So Spider-Man 3.
Amazing Spider-Man.
Amazing Spider-Man 2.
Spider-Man.
Shit, that's only four.
Okay, last four.
I mean, that's still not a terrible track record.
I mean, you know, it's not great.
They might be able to.
Warden four?
Well, yeah, but that's not fair.
You've just cut them off.
As soon as you try to crush it so that you get the maximum amount of bad.
You're a bad person, Jay.
I hope you're aware of this.
It is the way to make them look worst.
Worst.
Wait, yeah, shut up.
Mola, why do you have a keyhole in the middle of your mask?
How do you think I unlock this thing?
Secure.
Oh, everyone's like, you don't actually know.
Yes, I think it's nitrous oxide.
And so it makes sense that you would, in the same way that has an effect on engines to increase
your performance, that you would use an energy drink to the same thing as a person.
I understand that.
I get that.
I'm not stupid.
Okay.
Nitrous oxide.
I just didn't know if it was like if it was officially called like a number five and it
was supposed to look like stylistically NOS or if that was just a result of the font.
Okay.
So fucking sue me.
There you go, guys.
You're welcome.
Huh?
I didn't pick it.
I wasn't so curious that I went to the can and like checked and picked it up
or Google that at any point in my life, I wasn't that curious.
Thousands of people.
How easy was it?
It was basically effortless.
Who did all the work?
When I asked thousands of people, who did all the work?
They did more work thinking about the answer than I thought about the question.
Yeah, that chat is using you.
I am using you.
I'm using you.
It's NOS.
I know it's NOS.
We've established that it's NOS now.
Rags, it's NOS.
I get it.
Well, there's a ripoff of Frankenstein.
I am MOLLE.
Here's some money for coffee and all rhino milk.
I'm not attacking chat.
Don't attack chat.
I'm not attacking chat.
Chat is superior Google.
That's what I'm saying.
Chat's upset.
How could you do this?
Wait, so Rags is NOS is just Wright's big, big, it is.
NOS is objective.
I love big, it is big.
Big, it is just right.
Try to type out big ideas with papyrus and not separate it.
So it looks like big ideas and he's the fucking ancient Greek scholar.
And didn't I say not, but like two, five minutes ago that the chat is there for me in ways that
others weren't, how could that be me attacking chat?
Well, they're probably referring to when you attack them as the attack.
I didn't attack them.
It looks like they're feeling attacked.
What can I say?
Big ideas would be the one to cite here.
I don't know.
What does he say about this?
Rags or do you not look to him for guidance?
Who?
Biggidius.
Biggidius?
I've only heard of him.
I haven't done my scholarly research on the man.
Damn.
I worship Biggidius.
We both, you didn't know Biggidius was, it's light outside, Mauler.
Joe Long has been light outside for me.
No, it's.
It's the middle of the day here.
It's 6 16 a.m.
It's, my blinds are glowing.
No, it's not.
It's 12 16 p.m.
Oh, my God.
I can't believe this.
Biggidius o'clock.
Biggidius, make the sun go away.
Everyone in the chat.
What time is it with you?
No, why would you do that?
Now we're going to get a flood of dubbers.
50 damn efaps.
Can't believe I've wasted so much time.
Damn you, Jay, and your managing skills.
I'm sorry.
A warning.
Severt our expectations, Jay.
Leave and watch Lord of the Rings.
So I really thought that whole thing was just going to be.
Leave expectations, Jay.
Leave.
There's so many numbers and colons in the chat.
I'll speak in a moment.
But they're not.
Oh, yeah, these aims and pains.
Watched Chris took a video on solo at the end.
He said people should go easier on the last Jedi because it took risks
and had a real vision.
So did Hitler.
What's your point?
What was the comparison we had before?
It was like so shitting off a cliff.
Like he's a fucking risky move.
Wait, what's the risk in shitting off a cliff?
As you said, Rags, when I brought it up is that it could land on somebody and crush them
from the fucking pitivital velocity.
How hard are your shits that they would crush you?
Because I'm thinking the risk is like squatting over the side of a cliff.
You might lose your balance because when you when you do, you don't think about it often,
as I rarely do.
Never until now, actually.
But when you do take a poo, the weight of your body will shift.
Yes, yes.
Because you're no longer carrying it.
Preach it and around the result is the exact same as last Jedi.
The same thing.
Shitting off a cliff.
A man, a man being smooshed by a hard poop.
That's the last Jedi.
Hey, hey, how?
No, that's dumb.
Never mind.
I pride.
No one else does that.
Don't laugh off the games.
Tonal talked about in his video last defap.
A lot of those games were covered very well by Matthew Matosis.
Oh, well, we don't have a problem with any of the games specifically.
It's just the way Tonal covered them.
You think we're going to say that those games are bad because Tonal likes them.
Are you going to buy Celeste?
No, it was it was a total bloke video.
No more fee for anyone.
Not allowed to play FIFA.
Love you guys.
Can't stick around all day.
Have a great stream.
Why?
Thank you.
Uh, read my name.
So it's in the fiftieth efap.
Canonically, Scotty Demarest.
Demorist.
I'm not sure.
It's okay.
Rags isn't wait.
It's okay.
Rags.
Isn't he canonically a guest?
Well, yeah, you know, but you still want a canonical guest to be
guessting.
You wouldn't want it not to be guessting.
Yes, I am guessting.
Exactly.
I'm the apex guest.
Happy anniversary, you masses.
Why?
Thank you.
Happy anniversary.
Of our 50 years of friendship.
Efap 50.
We all watch the Lord of the Rings extended edition to Culture J.
We'll get there.
We'll get there.
Yeah, that will do it.
Hello.
How long has it been?
How long have you been trying to get me to watch that now?
What?
You I feel like you're doing it on purpose now that they're not watching us.
Yeah.
Jay, have you actually seen them already and you just haven't told anybody?
Is that what's happening?
I would never do that.
Would you not do that?
No.
Okay.
Jay, would you lie to me ever?
I would never do such a thing.
I've never lied in my life to anyone.
What about?
Um, what about?
Have you lied to Mahler before?
What?
Have you lied to Mahler before?
No, they just said I've never lied to anyone.
But have you lied to me?
But have you lied to Mahler?
No.
Okay.
All right.
That seems to contradict with the way.
All right.
Yeah, those two statements.
I think just right.
Wrote your video.
Yeah.
Papyrus.
He just did.
Biggidius.
Yeah.
Hello, all my fellow Massives.
Happy 50th, guys.
Can Jay graduate from manager to co-host now?
I'm pretty sure manager is above co-host.
Is that a graduation or is that a decrescendo?
Degraduation.
That's absolutely what the word is.
Congrats on 50 eFabs.
Bring on the lore.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
I'm excited.
So much lore.
Oh, yes.
I'm excited to support this momentous occasion.
Been watching since the beginning.
And it was so long ago.
Sleep time for me.
Night shift tonight.
Have fun, boys.
Oh, hi, Rags.
Hello.
Which is objectively better?
Spider milk or geode milk?
I think I would rather have...
I don't know.
I bet geode milk is really rich in minerals.
But spider milk may give you access to time powers.
You know the powers that geode milk gives you?
Okay.
What is it?
Tell me.
Probably just makes your bones stronger.
Yeah.
Which is what normal milk does.
Yeah, but like to a much greater extent.
Oh, like times two?
Well, I'd say even more than that.
Times 2.778.
Even if we just said it makes your bones twice as strong,
then I would go with geode milk.
But like, is that anything compared to being able to see the future?
Oh, whoa.
If that's what spider milk gives you, then I want to see...
Well, can I change the future?
If the future that I see...
According to a rival, no, you can't.
Then fuck that shit.
Give me the geode milk.
It is geode milk.
Is the milk of a geode?
The milk of a geode?
How do you not know what a geode milk is?
I fancied you a geologist.
Oh, I was clearly mistaken.
That's fine.
Most people aren't.
It's fine.
It's the statistical probability that you aren't a geologist.
This fits in with the lore.
Maybe I missed that episode.
No, that's not an episode.
That's the real world.
I was...
I mean...
Most people are geologists.
Most people are geologists?
Most people are not.
No, I said most people are not geologists.
I don't think that's what you said.
No, I said that most people are not geologists.
Most people are not geologists.
That is a lie.
Seven out of three people are geologists.
Seven out of three people are fucking shit at fractions, apparently.
Seven out of three people are shit at fractions?
I want to put that in good help.
Okay.
Cheers, mates.
Cheers to 50 more.
Thank you, Michael.
Could you please cover Dunkey's video combo of Octopath Traveler and video game criticism
part two?
He tries to review the game subjectively and then covers his tail when called out.
People then quote his BS.
He's experienced a bit of flak for that.
Do you guys know anything about that with Dunkey?
Nope.
Dunkey, isn't that, um, Michael Jordan?
No, no, he YupTuber.
He makes video funny.
And he, uh, he did a poor review of Octopath Traveler.
It's the RPG that's like 60 hours or whatever.
And he played, I think, 10 and did a review of what's in the game as a whole.
And it upset a lot of people who are very into it.
And then someone pulled him out.
If you're going to review a game, like 10 hours is, I'd say,
you play a game for 10 hours.
That's a fair investment of time for you to-
You definitely make some conclusions.
Yeah, as long as you state, I've only played this for 10 hours.
As long as you're clear about that,
I would love to hear what someone who's played the game for 10 hours has to say.
Because if you're like, it's all shit and I hate everything I've seen so far,
then I'm like, oh, that means I might have to go past 10 hours to start enjoying it.
And that'll infect me.
That- Well, it'll infect me with ideas anyway.
But that'll affect my purchasing decision.
You know?
Yeah.
Um, there was- I remember looking into this, there was certain misrepresentations.
And he, like, he edits portions of the game to make it look even worse than it is.
He did the fucking same with Yooka-Laylee.
So it doesn't surprise me.
I've always thought he was a terrible reviewer.
I find him funny.
He reminds me of Jim Stirling with just-
It's the- I think he's good at industry criticism.
Not always.
But, you know, Jim Stirling has been pretty good with that over time.
But when it comes to reviewing games, holy fuck, stay away.
You like, you fail miserably regularly.
Um, but he's very endearing.
And I know that he pissed off a lot of people with, um,
with his Octopath Travel stuff.
But the thing is, we're, um, I don't know enough about Dunkey,
nor do I know anything about Octopath Travel,
so I'm just not the right person to take that on and sort of break it down.
And I don't know that anybody who typically guests on eFap is either.
So it's kind of like, not the wheelhouse.
Anyway, bon anniverser, you massives.
I'm gonna have a lot of fapping to catch up on on Moolah when you be done.
Enjoy your day.
It's not a tree fap without ragers.
It's only pre-fap until he arrives.
And then he did arrive.
And then I came.
Happy anniversary, eFap.
Anyone play Fire Emblem?
Which one?
I don't play any of them, so.
I've beaten some of the Game Boy ones.
I beat Fire Emblem, Sacred Stones.
I beat Path of Radiance years and years ago.
I think those are the only pa-
I played Ike a lot in Melee.
Does that count?
Yes.
No, no, no.
Ike was in Brawl.
Ike is in Brawl.
Roy was in Melee.
Yes.
So, yeah.
So I played a lot of Roy in Melee.
More.
I played a lot of Ike in Brawl.
Who do you play in Ultimate?
I haven't played Ultimate yet.
Not yet.
Not yet.
I got it right over here, though.
Right over here.
Uh, Jim, like Bob Chipman, got far worse post-Gamergate.
Uh, I've never-
I don't think I ever saw any Bob Chipman stuff before
Game of Gate, but I can't imagine it.
Was it- was it good?
Like, was he- was he-
Was he- was he good or was he just early?
Yeah, that's the thing.
Like, he's- he's staggeringly, like shockingly, he's probably the least-
He hasn't changed fuck all about the way he makes videos over, like, a decade.
It's impressive.
It's just as terrible as it always was.
It's like, good job, Chipman.
You- you managed to find- like, do- nail it, I don't know.
Impressive, like I said.
Wolf, if you're watching this, we love you and miss you,
but are glad you made the tough choices needed to take care of yourself.
You'll always be with us in spirit.
May you long drink the rhino milk.
You, um, is kind.
Rags, any chance we can get a separate video of your avatar dancing to Happy?
Uh, no for copyright reasons.
Also, I don't like penguins.
Are there penguins in the Happy song?
What's the Happy song?
Wait, isn't that- wasn't that the Penguin movie with, uh, Frodo?
Oh.
Happy?
Wait, you talk about Happy Feet?
Happy Feet.
Happy Feet.
Happy Feet.
Um.
Have that movie.
Yeah.
The thing they're calling is H-A-P-P-E.
That movie was really sexual.
H-A-P-E.
Like yours actually was just, like, straight up, like, fucking.
H-A-P-P-E. Happy? H-A-P-P-E.
Anyone know what that is? Is that a song name?
No? Nothing? Okay.
We got nothing.
We got nothing.
Uh, Happy 50th.
Stopping in for my first live efap.
Say thanks for the massive hours of car entertainment and analysis.
Cheers to a full year of doing it okay the way that you did it.
Long live, long man.
Happy birthday, efap.
Hello to my two fellow Welshtisms.
Why don't we call sex that, entertainment?
Because-
I think sex is a quicker word.
Yeah.
Wait, wait.
Sex.
Okay, so one syllable.
Contain.
That is four.
And I'm normally an advocate.
Like, remember when, when someone earlier said be right back?
No, he said BRB.
And I was like, you can just say be right back.
It takes the same amount of time.
You know, this three syllables each.
Or if you say burb.
Burb?
You can do that.
You can say burb.
But then people will probably ask follow-up questions as to what you mean.
Did you just burb?
Well, I'm going to be right back.
Um.
It's crazy that it's already been a year since the first efap.
I've been subscribed to rags ever since 2016.
Because of him, I found mauler.
Because of mauler, I found wolf.
He has $100 for each of you.
Thank you guys for great content.
All hail the toxic brood.
And may the dawn be with you.
I was chipped.
I remember seeing that come in yesterday.
Yeah, that's how far back I am.
I haven't read any super chats until now.
It's not been, there's been no natural place to slot it in a meaningful way.
We need your shit about our super chat.
Okay, this is exactly what, listen, we can't just read them as they happen.
Because then we'll constantly get derailed all the time.
They will never be able to finish reading them out.
We get derailed from super chats with super chats.
Like it's the most.
Exactly.
It's a kiss.
Can you do this in like segments?
So how come at the end of each segment, you guys just didn't take like,
I know it takes a long time for you.
I need to do this now when we're live in front of everyone.
But I did say that maybe we should do this.
Yeah, I already said to you that it didn't work out that way.
Just explain to the people super chatting now that they'll have to be
listening this time tomorrow to hear their super chat.
Imagine giving a super chat and then having to wait a fucking day
to have it read it out.
I mean, it's all in continuity.
This is the thing.
There was no natural place to stop.
We had guests already available for X amount of time.
The only reason, if we were doing like a 48 hour show,
we'd very likely be responding to videos with Adder and Robot Head right now.
Like I feel bad that I can't do that with them because we're running to the end of the show.
So I've got to start responding to these.
I've got no choice because I like doing that.
But, you know, we need to start answering the questions.
We had a lot of guests that could only stay for like one or two hours.
No, that adds to my point because Roundhead Anderson just said,
E.R. will never hear my hello now.
Yeah, there's a lot of those.
How does that make you feel?
Are they new to eFap?
This is how it's always worked.
I'm sorry.
There's not much I could do about it.
That's what they said about slavery.
It's always been like this.
We've always done that.
We've always owned black people, you know, and that's awful.
But that's what they said, Mahler.
They also said it about breathing oxygen and it's still working.
It sounds like John Wilkes Booth.
He shot the president.
Which one?
The one in the hat.
Was he a good one?
What was he a bad one?
He was one of the best.
Wait, the one wearing the one wearing the clothes.
The one wearing the statue.
Or the one wearing the accessory.
No, he had both.
He had clothes and the accessory.
Oh, and I'm glad we solved that.
But yes.
Okay.
The best way of describing objective criticism is to equate it to both grammar
and engineering.
It evaluates structure and techniques for communication.
That's fair enough.
Yeah, it's definitely a good start.
That was money well spent.
Can't stay long, but good luck surviving.
Love you all except rags.
Oh, okay.
Well, that's okay.
Well, I'm glad I'm, you know what?
I don't want your love.
That's how you're going to be.
I ain't sad.
I'm happy.
I'm happy.
People like you don't love me.
Oh, wow.
No, no, if unconditional love is worthless.
Okay.
If your love doesn't have conditions to it, then it doesn't mean anything.
The most purest, best, truest love is one that is conditional.
Something that's earned that needs upkeep to maintain.
Or else what you're saying is that you haven't earned this person's love.
No, what I'm saying is he doesn't deserve to love me.
I've never heard someone spin that that way.
I'm impressed.
He doesn't deserve to love you.
Okay.
People are like, cheer up.
It's like, no, no, no, no, this I'm, I am happy.
I am happy.
Feed the movie with Frodo and the fucking penguins.
I am happy.
I'm not upset.
I'm just explaining some concept that I hold true to be true until
someone can convince me otherwise.
That's what he gets for saying he loves everyone except me.
That's what he gets.
You sure showed him.
What did he think that I wouldn't read this be read the super chat?
I just like Ben.
You nailed it.
I think you should debate him.
We'll bring him on debate people.
I don't love.
Oh, you love Major Lee calling.
Are you going to call that a debate?
Some people bite.
Oh yeah.
More the dumb question.
Have you, do you ever have any story ideas for that wish upon sequel?
Anyway, get lots of rest after the stream and have a great week.
Um, I think I say in our wish upon covers those like,
I would actually love to like buy the right to make a sequel.
No, that's the thing.
I would love to make another wish upon.
The first one was terrible.
I loved it.
It was, it's one of the best bad movies.
It was amazing.
I love it.
I was so great.
Please make another wish upon.
Call it my wish to park.
Right.
Okay.
So I just wanted to look for a comment about debating, right?
Um, uh, and my, and my comments, uh, cause I asked someone if they wanted to debate.
And, um, I went, I went into the, you know, you know, the classic YouTube studio,
which is the better one, right?
The one that's not, they're not pushing on everyone.
Yeah.
The beta is crap.
Yeah.
Um, I went into the classic one, which I've already set as my default multiple times.
Yeah.
I go, so I, but then it takes me to the, the new one anyway.
So I'm like, no, click the, go up the button to go to the classic one.
And then it, uh, I go to like the part where it shows me my comments.
I go to the search bar.
I type in like debate into the search bar, and then it takes me straight back to the, uh,
the beta one, uh, and makes you search for it then.
Why are you letting me go back to the old one?
If every button I press, you're going to take me to the new one.
Because we're like weeks away from the classic one being entirely removed.
YouTube because YouTube's theme is that you can't have despair without hope.
Not, it's not integrated either.
It's, it's like so poorly integrated into the site.
Hey, southward southward fawn just said props to rags for consciousness,
which is the lowest bar for props that I've ever received.
But I feel like it is so valuable.
I think we could accept those.
Yep.
No, I am like that's, I've never been told like good job for being conscious before,
but it feels like it's feels so meaningful now feels it.
I've, it does feel earned.
Um, uh, meme repulsory said an hour and a half until 24 hours.
Um, the thing is we had, we had the, the, the breaks.
I'm just adding the streams together, which pushes us to, we still got another two and a
half hours. Um, yes, that still works out.
Right. So it's not, so it's not an hour and a half.
Well, you threw that shit out there and then you pulled it away and said, nope,
two and a half. I was reading out what meme repository said. Right.
Listen, listen, listen, stick to the memes, leave the math to, um, uh, seven or four people.
Let him take care of it. Okay.
Let seven out of three people worry about the time fraction numbers.
Yes. Um, I won't be able to tune in for the whole stream,
but I will be fapping with you in spirit all day. Also. Hi Rags.
Hello and give us pop three of the TFA. You massive.
I told you coming out 2020 baby August, be ready, be there, be square.
We're going to be going to be EFAP 100, the bicentennial celebration.
We're going to do it.
Uh, just caught up with the EFAP of my reward is watching live.
Thank you for the hours of blessed content. You masses.
They brought me so much joy. Congrats on reaching 50.
Why thank you.
That's not something you hear in Africa often.
No, Jesus.
Whoa, whoa, Jay. What's that reaction?
Whoa, don't. Wow. Oh, it's because they don't speak English in Africa.
They speak in clicks and whistles.
Yes, they speak Spanish.
Can't wait to be sleep deprived at work tomorrow.
I'd see at the end of this holy congregation of the toxic brood all hail the dawn.
Oh, I'll hail the dawn. The apex of the apex meme.
Yeah, he didn't know that at the time he sent the super chat.
No, he did. That was the thing scientifically.
That's through the belief in the internet poll. It's proven.
The Don works in mysterious ways.
He really does.
Objectivity does.
Objectivity does exist, but only within a subjective context.
Quote from the rise and fall of communism as told through Balbo begins by Jim Sterling, probably.
All right, Carol Danvers, your evil reign of terror ends today.
My name is the Don and I am the only the one and only true God of this universe.
It is time for you to taste the power of rhino milk.
See, now I'm thinking that's a leaked part of the script for Captain Marvel 2.
What's the theories there?
Well, I think it's going to get there now when they hear it.
That's cathartic.
Yeah, they won't be resisting stealing that.
I just want to watch Captain Marvel drown in rhino milk.
Oh, okay.
I went to a place.
Parabens pelo anniversaryo um bejo e um abraco para cada um devusee.
Anyone know what that means?
Yes.
What does it mean?
Rags tell me.
Okay, so you might not believe me.
But what it means is.
It's very simple.
It actually is a promotion of a YouTube video.
The Italian version of a Snoop Dogg talks death row stories, JZ's NFL deal, Nipsey hustle,
and more.
And this is from breakfast club power 105.1 FM.
I actually threw it into translate.
Apparently it means congratulations on the birthday, a kiss and a hug for each of you.
Very close.
I didn't think you'd check.
So close, Rags.
So close.
In honor of oh yeah, I forgot.
I was I was thinking that there's no way you would remember what you read out.
But then I was like, you fucking idiot.
He was reading it.
He has it in text form.
You can just take that and paste it.
In honor of Efap 50.
Can you guys name your favorite Efap meme?
Oh, Akbar.
I think the Akbar one.
Oh, you read the video.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, oh, oh, I think the Don is my favorite.
I love the Don.
The Don memes are pretty.
Yeah.
Well, this is the thing.
I guess does this include like separated videos versus individual like ideas of memes?
It's a complicated question.
I still fucking adore the Kingsman meme.
Like I was blown away by that one.
Then individual meme power.
I do.
I do love me the Don.
The Don.
The Don is fantastic.
The Don sums up the whole movie at one sign.
Yeah.
It's a microcosm of what it does.
It does so much damage.
Those Marvel video ones you got earlier today were amazing.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It's incredible.
Community is kind of incredible.
There's no other way to describe it.
I love that the Akbar one nearly killed Rags like in terms of just absolute hilarity.
While simultaneously being so shocked by some of the insane quality of the art,
like the images and the videos.
Like all of it put together.
Words escape me is what I was trying to explain with words.
But yeah, I don't know.
What do you guys take on favorite memes?
Cosmic Chicken and Goliath.
A fair one.
You only like those because they started on your channel.
That's not true.
Have you?
I thought you have.
Are you sure?
Have you ever lied to anyone?
We've already been over this.
Have you ever lied to me?
Yeah, that was then.
That was then.
You've said things since then.
To be fair, I have lied since then, yeah.
Man, that's unlucky for you.
Like the timing.
Yeah.
Anna, do you have a favorite meme of any kind?
I like the spiders can tell the future one.
Hey, Jay, you should be happy about that.
It was created by you almost, I guess.
It was.
Well, it was the thing that I said that made it.
True.
It was the way that you asked the question.
You were so sure that spiders had the sense.
You sounded so sincere.
I really wanted to know.
It's not quite a second.
Wait, what can spiders actually tell the future?
It's like, no, Jay, they have an early warning detection system called Eyes.
Ah, thus admitting they can tell the future, Rags.
There you go.
No, that's not.
No, no, no, that's not what that means.
Four out of seven people would disagree with you.
It's over half.
That's depressing.
Hello there, you genuine actual massives.
Merry birthday to Efap and may thee the cosmic chicken be praised.
Anyway, guys, Kyle Ben did complete his narrative tripling and milk with rhinos.
Skittles are better than M&M's by.
I think M&M's are better than Skittles.
Skittles are better than M&M's.
M&M's are better.
Have chocolate, so they win.
Yeah, they kind of just automatically win.
That's why Rags and Muller will never get laid.
They have no idea of female presence.
Do you think that this is my normal state?
Do you think this is how my normal self is?
We regularly stay up for 21 hours responding to YouTube videos.
Do you think this is how I prime myself for going for being?
What do they call it?
What do they call it?
Not like flu thing.
They call it.
What are you looking for?
Not like prowling.
Where are we going?
Like when you're going out and looking for like a mate.
Going on the pro hunting.
Not not sort of hunting sort of like in a sort of.
Fuck it.
You're on the prowl.
Saint me.
This isn't the real me.
Oh, it's a fake you fake fake me.
What's the real you?
What have you done with them?
Yeah, give me back the question.
No, I've drank three beers and for me that's a lot.
Jesus Christ.
Three beers is a lot.
I know like that's a lot for me.
I can't take alcohol like a small dog or no.
Yes, and I'm most it's mostly fluff too.
I'm actually smaller.
I'm like a cockatiel.
If you shave off all the feathers, you're like, man, I thought he was.
Rags is gradually becoming his current PFP.
Where he's like, uh, the classes are coming down.
The tongue is coming out.
That's supposed to be you as a puppy.
There you go.
That's your answer.
I guess.
Rags is a puppy.
He's an adorable fucking good boy.
Bad boy would be up all bad boys.
Stay up all night and drink.
No, no, they don't.
They've only had three bears.
You're not really drinking.
I'm not drinking anymore.
I'm not drinking anymore.
Never got started.
Listen, I'm a cheap drunk.
Look, I'm a cheap date.
All right.
It's easy to get me slambered up.
I it's responsible.
I understand that I just can't handle a lot of alcohol.
Right.
So I pace myself.
So I don't drink too much.
I don't take much to get me drunk.
I don't see.
Right.
We're cheap dates.
Well, I don't drink beer, so I'm a little more expensive.
I'm I'm easy.
I'm I'm perfect.
Okay, that was interesting progression.
He's perfect.
Okay.
That's the conclusion from this.
It was like, Oh, really lightweight.
Yeah, I should work harder on not having the genes I have.
Well, no, you can build up your alcohol and tolerance by drinking more rags.
You can build up a tolerance.
That's how it works.
But yeah, you build up your tolerance by drinking.
I don't drink much.
Hey, Fringy.
Fringy.
How much you're fucking massive.
How much can you drink?
Um, he's just trying.
Yeah, that helps as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I haven't eaten much either.
Something to do with it as well.
Why bread?
No, it's too many carbs.
Drinking beer.
Yeah, you're drinking beer.
You're complaining about carbs.
No, no, no, this isn't a rebuttal to my point.
And I will explain exactly why.
Because if you're saying, yeah, I understand that beer has carbs in it.
Right.
I understand that.
That doesn't mean you should just say, fuck it and make it worse.
Oh, I'm saying.
You're learning so much at the moment.
You'll be from drinking beer.
If you have a little tolerance, eat bread.
I'm extremely tolerant.
Rags his brain is melting.
Like, remember what I said, we wouldn't allow Australians.
And now we have two of them.
Oh, sorry about that.
I heard the thing wrong.
What's the word I'm looking for?
Copying.
Epic.
Legend.
Amazing.
Incredible.
Stunning.
Stellar.
Handsome.
Because it's Australians.
Australian.
Yeah.
Right.
I'm fucking confused.
Well, Fringy, to give you an idea of what's happening right now.
So I'm trying to read out super chats.
We're doing all of them in one big section.
We still got three hours, two hours and 15 minutes before we hit that 24-hour cap.
But we can always go past this.
Okay.
There was somebody who was doing a super chat per hour completed of the stream.
Right?
So I'm about to read out one of their super chats.
Hour one of 24.
Are we still in the first hour of super chat?
Mahler, we're fucked.
Hey, man.
There's no way I'm leaving until I get this shit done.
You could do whatever you want.
I would have been here.
No, it wouldn't be right.
It wouldn't be right.
What have I got myself into?
You volunteered.
We have...
How long?
We have two hours in what?
25 minutes?
No, 15.
Two hours and 25 minutes to get through 23 hours worth of super chats.
So...
Hey, man.
You can't go wrong when trying.
Face down, ass up.
Let's get this done.
Oh, read one, go.
Read one, go.
Well done, you sexy beast, you.
Oh, thanks.
Oh.
Read a super chat.
All right.
Thanks.
Aina on Yoko Lasky Vikumasa.
Ah, Konnichiwa.
No, I don't think that was the language.
Google Translate, save me.
Oh, apparently it's Finnish and it means there's always a fellow whining.
Ah, fakarg, behinga hirla farg.
That's racist, probably.
Jim's best-
You can't be racist to white people.
Okay, fine.
It was sexist.
Aha.
Jim's best content is green light reactions and squirty play slash Jimpressions.
It's a goldmine.
Jimquisition is hit and miss.
Agreed.
That was from yesterday.
Yeah, you were there for this for you.
Um, this is the-
Yeah, Jim, when he's literally playing the worst things that ever existed on Steam
and saying they're bad, he's not typically wrong.
He nails it.
Yeah, good job.
You found shitty games and you played them and told us they're shitty.
Fucking stellar.
Nailed it.
Uh, 50 bucks for 50 episodes.
Keep fapping the e-boys.
Oh.
Fapping the e-boys.
We're gonna be rich next year.
Could you-
Two hundred dollars.
Could you do the School of Movies video on The Last Jedi?
Love you guys.
Congratulations on the milestone.
All of your work has made me take up writing.
Maybe up my writing.
Sorry, there you go.
School of Movies on The Last Jedi.
I will put a note and take a look-see.
Um.
Bob's swaying looks like that gif of the seal spinning in water.
Badadadadada.
Wait, yeah, this was Jim that was swaying.
Not Bob.
You confused Jim Sterling with film Robert.
Theater Robert.
No.
It's Theater Robert.
Sinema Roberto.
You can adjust height in VR, so you don't have to stand.
Yeah, but he had to complain.
so he had to stand respond to Lindsay Ellis's videos on Game of Thrones and
Star Wars I've seen a Game of Thrones videos I thought they were kind of meh
that's her commentary on select moments throughout there's some interesting
comments she makes that are just weird like especially about when it comes to
stuff like Daenerys but it would be too much of we'd have to keep like playing
six minutes at a time where it's just like this is fine and then being like
alright this is one comment that's weird this is the thing Lindsay Ellis has
made a lot of good stuff she also makes a lot of weird shit with really poorly
researched points so it have to find a topic where she was particularly bad on
something that I'm I guess very knowledgeable about I suppose or at
least passionate about fractions I want to say yes I don't know motion controls
are actually more precise than controllers so personally I prefer them
excluding the Kinect they aren't really as bad as he's making them out to be
motion controls are actually more precise than controllers is that true my
experience with a Wii says otherwise but maybe that was a peripherals issue well
a controller is a money motion controls like you point things at a screen like
like an arcade believe the controller would be more precise by a mechanical
nature right like the motion controls rely on a sort of a ping like back and
forth while the controller itself is literally like just a binary thing I
don't know yeah like I know like when cuz I because like like when you're
shooting guns and stuff there's that it's not really a sway video games make
it a sway but it's really more of a tremble in your hands so I don't know
exactly what is that something Jim Sterling said no I think is this
something this person says super chat okay I don't know Sterling's argument
because some people can't have it no one should have it Jim go vote twice you
massive he his argument is that they're crippling the amount of people that they
could sell to because some people out there can't even walk oh wait wait is
Jim saying there's something wrong with being crippled no yeah literally
literally is quote there's something wrong with being crippled he doesn't say
what it is just that there is something there is your legs don't work
hmm what a lovely sight to wake up to the efap we've all been waiting for good
luck mauler good luck indeed we need you there to the 24-hour we're not
necessarily near completion though oh I'm so proud of these massive lads and
all the frames they've paused on since these streams have started happy
anniversary friends happy anniversary thank you tismy masses for the decades
of entertainment to consume with my spider-milk time powers if you got one
bionic organ which one would you want ooh wait what if you could get one bionic
organ what would you choose everyone in chats gonna say no but rags went to
the liver because it's a lightweight well no that's not what I was gonna say
but that's an answer to their credit um no I couldn't possibly handle a larger
penis no no no if it was bionic it could do other things as well yeah like what
like could be dinner mmm bionic's not larger it's just more virile it's more
what virile bust as well mmm no I really like it like it's kind of goes wrong with
it you could replace it it's got a really good shape like well head doesn't
curl out too much and it's nice and smooth it's not really like veiny or
anything that much I really know not like it's completely it's not like
alabaster or anything it's it's nice it's I really really like it I really
really like I lucked out like I genetically got fucked on the drinking
but man what a great dick thanks dad so I think if I was gonna get a great dick
wow yeah that was something all right that could be taken out of context that
could be taken out of context it already was twice yeah you broke my head this is
what I deal with all the fucking time you talk about your dick for five seconds
Jesus and then you say thanks dad all right so what was the question yes well
I got it well if you could have any bionic organ what organ would it be
probably probably something really important like a heart right yeah you
want a bionic heart yeah cuz you can get like liver replacements I mentioned like
kidneys and stuff easier than like a heart yeah and if your heart vascular
problems your liver fails you've got time to get it fixed if your heart fails
you just die yeah cardiovascular issues are a big cause of death for you know
percentage-wise for problems like that so I would I would want a bionic heart I
think unless it's like a bionic heart that like can be built currently by people because
then it would probably just break within three minutes probably wouldn't even work
I actually would be like a like a cyber punky sort of deus ex kind of like super
heart yeah yeah like a heart that you can shoot bullets out of you know you just like
I don't want my heart to shoot bullets because it has a 100% chance of hitting me
no like your chest opens up and then you go yeah you know like yeah rags obviously
yeah like the thing you know isn't that just what you want to become the thing
isn't that high on your list rags
I'm sorry um what internal organ would be most likely to be able to shoot bullets out of
um internal organ uh tongue that's a muscle hmm I suppose you're right yeah that is correct
it is it is a muscle um it's the only muscle in the human body that's only attached at one end
ew why did you say ew oh sorry you spoke is it the only muscle that's attached to one end
yeah penis that's not a muscle probably something that's close to the outer side so maybe like the
appendix or like what like your left kidney sort of yeah sure it wouldn't be like a testicle or
something of course of course like just just one no well it's because there is like three but the
recoil would just fucking wreck you oh my why would you just say why are people sending him
nasty why are people why are people saying I'm nasty oh Jay you're a nasty the comment you made
on the tongue are you kidding yeah it's a muscle that's only attached to one end that's true that
I think that's disgusting I always think that's interesting I think it's interesting because all
of your other muscles are attached to two different things did someone suggest that the teeth
of muscles that are already attached to one of the teeth are not a muscle
what an incredibly stupid thing to say next to you uh like super chat okay uh please don't be muscles
I'm a man so I am barred from using tampons sad face is that if you want is that
candles or something right no stopping you are they trying to create a variation of
Jim's argument the whole like if if you have oh yeah I think I think it is yeah
privilege what do you what is what are your alternative uses tampons um Jay
uh if you get punched in the nose and your nose starts bleeding you put them up your nose
ah fair enough yeah is that a normal problem do you normally just get yeah it happens to
me all the time yeah it's probably because people are just because people hear the things I say and
react accordingly I might hate unicorns yeah
that was a beanie there was a video of AMD I think showing the newest graphics card prototype
and they said it costs like millions of dollars is that true oh man millions who's gonna buy that
one will Snoop Dogg oh of course Bill Gates Bill Gates is Snoop Dogg gonna open up the
brand new high graphic Minecraft let's place how to watch that I think a lot of people would
watch that actually that would be fascinated uh congrats for efapping for a year it's been an honor
also have you read James Cameron's proposed R-rated Spider-Man script no no that sounds
interesting that could be really interesting um I'm so grateful I decided to watch a two-hour
plus video about TFA that led me down this rabbit hole here's to another 50 episodes
also hi rags hello hello hi hi there efap because of you guys I now think more critically of media
time for an important question mauler are you a true long man what is your height and are
and those of the rest of the efap crew I am six foot four
so I guess you could say this is a long man wow really rags
uh how tall are you I'm about uh I don't know I was 17 inches
at the shoulder for it
so I'm I'm I'm actually fairly large for you know but
they're relatively you actually get taller when you sit
wow the things we learn yeah um I never thought of it never thought of it because I'm just so used
to it just you guys so you what did they want to know how tall everybody was or just you two
yeah I mean everyone go for it how tall is everyone I'm six foot nothing
the hobbit that's uh that's a species uh no I'm short how short every time I go in to find
out my height so I just stick with I'm short I'm a hobbit no I don't know if that's kind of a kind
of a kind of a deals if you're sure petite there you go like a little twix bar
twix bar yum twix are yummy but they're pretty sure well if they're like her
I don't think she's as sure as a twitch twitch bar I'm gonna assume that's a fun size like a
twix bar but there are non-fun size twix bars then you the thing you're going for is like a
fun size twix bar yeah it sounds like a twix bar when I sit at a table like a regular size table
my feet don't touch the ground like I had to legally sit in a car seat until I was in high
school wow I'm I'm very small oh the rags can only drink three beers uh what what is what
why do you translate all right that happened uh robot head how tall are you
uh well obviously it depends which legs I have attached but uh normally six even
you're a jaymon so I'm not like freaky six four or anything and well that's funny then I'm
definitely the tallest I'm six five whoa so top I'm not small fringy's the true longman
is this why it's taking you so long to release the videos you're gonna you're the longest
well I mean you're not tall oh yeah I only bought my head on clouds but I'm not tall
wait did Freese say he's not tall while simultaneously saying he's six foot five
no I didn't I said I'm the tallest where the fuck did rags go that far off
wait I thought you said I thought you said you weren't tall and also said you were six five
why the hell would I say that I don't fucking know I'm hearing shit
don't be too hard on rags she's had three beers
it's not just the three beers it's the lack of sleep and rest
also I've been sitting down a long time it is okay it's perfect there are no problems
yeah well there are problems yeah the rainforest is on fire
wow so jay went to the rainforest being on fire and rags immediately went to jay
so apparently that's that's where we're at those are equivalent problems to be fair
yeah well yeah um I see someone else in chat said they heard it too so I'm not crazy
all right what's bad sounds like you're reaching
I've found someone who agrees with me I'm not insane
no this is this is independent verification
Alan says I'm right no poison poison poison dart 77 says it what did Bagidia say about it
Bagidia said that he definitely said that oh it is scriptures no he said it to me just now
oh sweet yeah um either efap because of you guys I know think more oh wait did I read this one
already oh yes this is the height question whole year of efap I almost can't believe it
50 efaps congrats the fappening commences it is it is I Jim your humble water merchant
is that referencing like a snake oil salesman but with water I'm not sure what that means humble
humble water merchant water filter salesman
is that what he said I'm trying to think of how that relates to Jim's video
hi Jim your humble water merchant each other person who sent the super chat isn't just called
Jim no they're called the spawn camp well that could just be like their second name that's your
opinion no denying it there you go see land parties where slash are a thing oh oh this is
about so rags I do you remember this for you or basically we're talking about the benefits of PC
over console and like uh I'm not gonna say chat as a whole there were people in chat like there
was at least three that said uh the absolute benefit of console of a PC is you could actually
move your console I'm waiting for reaction you don't know this like you can move both one is
generally smaller than the other no so it's just easier normally I should see my pc it's really
small yeah you could get some small as fuck PCs my PCs really big but a lot of PCs are very
very small they're built to be portable they're built to have a slim form factor to them
but generally consoles will be smaller and you'll probably like the switch especially
is super portable that's that was its whole purpose of design no this is the thing I was
gonna say that'll explain the context for uh Andrew Clark said land parties where are a thing
and then salad king said whoever said you can't move your pc you'd um get a pc
and move it I promise you'll be able to no tricks I really swear I've done it before
yeah just um yeah I have just take the graphics card out before you move it and plug it in once
you get there you say like I could blow a load of people's minds by just like taking a video and
going hey guys watch this and then just pushing my pc slightly to the left CGI it's like what
NASA uses fucking deep fake your pc uh do you even lift bro well if you have a pc
uh get it just moved my new apartment had to set up a 75 inch curve tv surround sound
44k player ps2 to four man this setup is so long and will fail did you instinctively say 40k
uh yes then I corrected to 4k um but I just like they said bad this setup is so long and will
fail why will it fail no I think I think them making the point that's like um Jim was saying
that uh VR will fail because it takes so long to set up and it has lots of wires oh yeah I guess
we didn't even talk about that like a lot of pc setups these days depending on your peripherals
you got a fucking shit ton of wires with them and he's complaining about what three wires that
get turned into one on the back of the fucking headset it's like oh no however will you deal
congrats on 50 episodes you massives why thank god thank you I want to thank you all for making
college bearable making me and many others laugh and making this world just that little less tismy
mauler wolf special guest rags and all other guests have made my day so many times got me
through so many rather difficult times rhino milk for all I'm like how he thinks we made the
world less yes I'm gonna go ahead and agree we did make it less did we added some tism sure
I agree but we took a whole bunch out we sucked more tism than we splurged yes it was a net it
was a net loss of tism for the planet someone in the chat just asked me how I met you guys
watch ifaps 5 6 7 yeah there's a whole arc you miss it out the the best losing meme comes from him
oh yeah the the penultimate apex meme yeah uh message for rags was wanting to get a new
graphics card willing to buy an expensive one but worried about the artifacting on the 2080 ti
on the gtx 1080 ti are super expensive recommendations I didn't know that artifacting
on those cards was a problem because I have 2080 ti's now and I used to have 1080 ti's and I never
had that issue it could I mean if you're having artifacting issues it could have something to do
with the um the connection of your gpu to the pcie express port you might have a faulty clip or
maybe there's a bad bit of connection there because if the slot itself is faulty then it
might slot in you might get an image but it not might not do things like display the full resolution
or you could get artifacting if you fiddle with some of the video settings so I don't know why
you have artifacting issues or if you're just saying that those cards are purported to have
these kinds of issues I use ZOTAC as a brand I think they're great their cards have been fantastic
to me wow I feel strangely lucid for a moment um you've been awake for 24 hours
yeah that's why it's strange that I'm really like I just feel on point for man oh I've been awake
for 24 hours as of 10 minutes ago I woke up at 1 p.m my time it is now 1 p.m at 1 10 p.m
you can tell he's been awake for 24 hours racks can handle graphics cards but no more than three
beers not bad it's like a stat card you have to have your weaknesses you're not on point
how what did I say that was wrong there this is all literally factual actual information
actual actual actual legitimate real 100 I'm trying to troubleshoot this stuff myself I know
exactly how it could happen and then I fix the issue you know what the fuck I'm talking about
racks it's okay okay racks they're not worth it not it's not it's not a they it's a it's a one of
them you not even know what its gender is oh jeez okay it's not worth it you haven't changed your
statement I don't want to assume belch sorry I don't want to assume the gender of someone
that's why you say they to not assume someone's gender in chat I do assume gender everyone's a
everyone in the internet and it's proven otherwise
did you think that would go unchallenged
Anna and Fringy are traps change my mind
oh playing oh playing dumb yeah that's gonna that's gonna change my mind
he's had three beers guys Jesus it's not the fears it's a combination of multiple
beers thingy
congrats on efap 50 wish I could stay for the whole thing just want to say that you guys inspire me
to greatness I'll be starting a podcast with a friend soon hope to be half as fun and as in half
as fun and as informative as you guys wonderful best of luck and um I hope that your podcast is
great not as good as ours but I hope that it does really I hope make lots I hope it's better than
ours no fuck that shit mauler mauler whose side are you on you're like gay I I'd happily be a
stepping stone to greatness yeah it's like a six out of nine like it's all right it's fine yeah
I hope he's like Anakin Skywalker and we're helping him ascend to greatness
you know what happens to him right who Anakin bad stuff with some stuff
yeah but then he kills the emperor brings balance to the force true true he's a good man yeah sure
you get rooms full of dead children but you're gonna get those anyway that was like 20 years
that was those ages ago yeah guess who that wore off yeah guess who put in the wrong time and
thought this was starting later I did oops uh that was from James Moore I'm not sure
exactly when he came in but I think it was like just about an hour and a half in um mostly all
of it caught though uh just joined for the great 24 hour episode starts a video game cracks open
beer pulls down pants fap for me you beautiful massives also where's rags I'm on central time
as well and I'm still here yeah we had a miscommunication I had some I guess the
clock I was using wasn't quite right but yeah but you still came and you've still been here
for the longest outside of the longman yeah I still came and conquered that's what that's
what I'm gonna call my autopilot what I came those it no I still came I still came
watching this stream and the ashes I used to think cricket was long then I discovered efap
oh yeah it'll do that it'll do that is cricket long yeah you play along all day and it's like
five days I really don't enjoy cricket except like 2020 we're talking about the game
no the insect
man jay's firing all cylinders rags today I like it he's just trying to keep me sharp
when all all it's doing is sharpening me that's yeah that is what that would do
I mean that means you're being successful jade no matter what nice job yeah I'm winning I'm
winning life there you are watching spider-man then all of a sudden you're watching iron man
jr you didn't ask for this you didn't choose this yet there it is iron boy iron boy got it killed it
uh check hot dogs horse shoes and hand grenade it's basically a shooting range in VR with loads
of different guns and other weapons what's the thing I'm sure there's a shit ton of awesome
stuff to do in VR at this point I just don't know anything about it personally other than
it's being bought and used like you know it's not I think I played that and
a friend who has a system like it um I think I played that game
um I forgot what it's called this fat guy calling a gun magazine a clip re
rags what is the difference between a magazine and a clip
magazine is a container that holds bullets that you load into a gun so it can be chambered
a clip is just generally a strip of metal that's fed normally into an internal magazine that's
already inside of the gun so an m1 m1 garand or a smla uses clips well no smla also uses magazines
but n1 garand uses clips uh the m16 uses a magazine and that is something I didn't know
so thank you well I don't know that people often get annoyed when people miss identify them like
clip is often said instead of magazine because I just assume that they're the same very very few
guns I don't think really any modern guns use clips no clips it's all magazines yeah it's
basically it's all magazines now you have to find old world war two and prior guns essentially to
get clips uh muzzle tov lachaim wait it's mag not lachaim oh it's a mag not a clip re apparently
pissed off enough people to have two people super chat about it wow jim
sterling is so obese that the act of vr reloading is too much effort and he gets too winded
well he he was very upset about it he made a big deal about how in a game where you're shooting
he wouldn't want to do a vr reload he would rather it be a button and there's a lot of
implications that he's just getting very exhausted from movement and it's just like
maybe we could hear from from some other people about how vr works that aren't like he literally
has like a herniated disk right he has trouble walking moving around so it's just like I don't
know man maybe vr isn't entirely for you and I guess that's part of his point it's gonna fail
because it's not specifically tailor made for him yes uh it's important to note that I think
someone in the chat said that one of the big differences is that clips don't stay inside the
gun that's not true because monlicer clips are designed to stay inside the weapon while it's
while the bullets are being fired like the m1 garand uses monlicer clips
next gen pan said mag hold shooty bits waiting to be used and a clip hold shooty bits waiting to
enter the mag does that sound what it is I honestly I don't know uh sort of yeah that'd
be a way to describe it because pretty much generally any weapon that takes that accepts
clips is going to have an internal magazine to hold spares if there's no internal magazine then
you just feed rounds in one at a time like a just like a break-action rifle or a martini henry
something like that uh we should all fund full dive vr so we can all trap all these masses in
a hunger game style simulation geode geode I mean I guess if it's a simulation I'm not against
you know I wouldn't want to really die but I mean fake die yeah it could be fun uh how can you move
without barfing well most people aren't the size of a beached whale can do it so oh yeah he says
like he says a lot of really stupid shit it's reminding all these stupid chests just reminding
me of that very bad video just wait till we have VR like in black mirror oh yeah man it'll come
give it time VR will be super fucking cool eventually uh will wolf the one the one where
he fucking gets traumatized by the VR probably is that the black mirror is all about people getting
traumatized by different things uh uh super check him in saying will wolf beyond wolf did actually
guest at the end of part two of this 24-hour stream he came in for the quiz on efap so uh
once those are up you'll be able to um uh go there I guess if you wanted to see uh him coming on
thanks for the fabulous year of content boys no problem Liam super hot VR is objectively the
most fun VR game uh that was one of the ones you uh you said you'd want to try right jane
yeah it's a good game it's kind of up its own ass but it's fun
how is it up its own ass it has all of these cut scenes where it pretends like to not be a game
it's weird they'll even cut it like it like uh it's just like i don't i can't describe it it's
been too long since i played it it's annoying all right i got you also beowyn said rags gun jesus
is frowning upon the m1 garand uses n block clips not manly manlica manlica manlica manlica
manlica i don't know how to pronounce that properly
does it not why are you let me double check on that i think how is it not a manlica stuff
yeah carry on carry on so the early adopter phase of technology is bad this is the thing a lot
of what he was pointing out jim i was just like i don't know i'll play some of these tech demos
like they're all just tech demos like i don't know some of them become amazing games because
of how good the tech demos are i don't know we have to go into it more with him if if he makes
another VR video i would love alien isolation in VR there's a lot of games that people are really
awesome that's what i was gonna say horror games really do lend themselves to VR just for the
atmosphere being like i know it's not strictly speaking a horror game but subnautica is scary
as shit as the game i desperately want to play in VR there you go it'll be ridiculously immersive
let's cut the crap gents the reason mcu spider-man sucks is because it's an annoying
soapy teen drama it's the modern day smallville it's just as terrible shut the fuck up
yeah i've seen all of smallville that's insulting smallville um
that's that's that's my review of smallville by the way uh here's a huge
unbridled no here's a small a huge small massive donation for the one-year anniversary looking
forward to another year of video coverages from all my favorite massives also great to hear wolf
is doing fine let him know my brother and i wish the best for him will do the end block clip was
invented by ferdinand monlicer for use in his model 1885 rifle and then it says here that the
various remaining dutch porsche keys turnbolt manlicers austro-hungarian streepel styer manlicers
and the m1 garand in peterson 2 and e3 yeah i don't see how that can we all pretend like we
have no idea why rag said that i don't know why he said that no we all can we pretend like we
don't know just like why are you talking about cliff that's something that m1 garand uses
they win this is rags fight i got no fucking context for this so i man liquor that's that's
my input was i right is he confusing it with does he does he did he think that the m1 garand
used stripper clips or moon and a half clips stripper clips and liquor stripper clips
this gun stuff sounds pretty gay i just i don't know it's an observation
listen don't talk to me about don't talk to me if about man liquors okay why
i want to talk to you about bad luck it's a funny word he is a funny word
jim sterling is a lardman wow
four men late but hour two of 22 there we go we're up to hour two of 22
yeah 24 even why did i say 22 eyes work properly which are three vr vr is immediately the best
choice which are three in vr how would that go that would be oh man walking through walking
through what's the city's name nova grad in vr that'd be insane dude gorgeous whenever like
literally any game i enjoy someone goes as a vr vision i'd probably like hmm like why not give
it a shot hopefully it's done well yeah the witcher 3 is gorgeous the environments the cities
it's a beautiful video game shut up it's a tech demo uh people cry vr is privileged as they type
on their 1200 dollar iphone yeah that was the um joke that we made earlier well it was dumb logic
anyway because it's like how far do you want to take this privilege argument of video games
themselves not privileged the fact that you have to buy something to be able to play them
buy them themselves like come on dude he's literally a fucking successful youtuber going
on about how privilege is bad his job is to talk maybe about video games maybe he would
agree that the privilege he has is bad i really like i'm not i don't know i don't know what he
would say i don't really think it's good or bad it just is so who cares it's good for him that
he has it games are privileged for people who don't have it well it's the thing if you take
privilege to the nth degree it's like do you take whoever's in the worst state in imaginable across
earth and then compare from there and thus you have more privilege than that person everyone is
everyone is privileged more privileged than this is like one dude yeah one guy he's just like oh
um
screw you raggers i got a pc because of you and got used to 60 fps at least and now i have to
decide between a pc or a ps4 for board lens 3 i wish spider milk would let me see what's going to happen
um uh well if i'm not buying borderlands 3 yeah a lot of people won't be if you are going to
it is coming out on what the epic store if you're gonna get it there you could tired it
i didn't actually condone what that was a joke i said you could i didn't say you should um do it
yeah it'll be on it'll be on steam later but yeah i'm not i'm not buying i i would suggest
if you don't really need board lines 3 to uh pass on it uh with with what they've been doing
to some youtubers and stuff and sending people to people's houses and the whole epic thing
no fuck i've been sending people to people's houses what you've sent people to people's houses
they've got this youtubers house like they're trying to intimidate them oh epic yeah yeah yeah
yeah like they're no no this is like the borderline three people
why do you never connect your actual address to any accounts
oh like doxing isn't a thing they can do oh they know man these people know they know and epic
knows your address they're a shady ass company i was supposed to say i guess epic could know if
you've attached your address to uh i don't know why you would need to do that necessarily but i
i guess that's how they knew i don't know the um sup mato was the youtuber who basically got
his channel taken down and stuff like it's fucked up take two interactive i think they're the guys
who did it it fucked a very fucked up in 2k take two and see a very very fucked up stuff
um i'm broke right now but here's to an entire year thank you anti-hero
uh no predicting the future king crimson at epitaph i don't know the reference who's king crimson
i don't know what an anime has to do with anime whenever i don't understand anything i was like is
it anime this is going to be anime
wait for chat to confirm this in anime king crimson it's just an enemy
wait for it wait for it's a song jojo there you go to do it love you wolf you was a kang among kangs
oh uh figured i'd do this now the empire slash first order had three super weapons that blew up
planets and you expect me to believe they wouldn't weaponize hyperspace bombardments with their
billions of tie fighters no there are people who unironically argue that they were the first to
come up with it i believe you guys heard that argument from major lee on the high council he
actually says that um so if uh it's not in the next movie then he'll have to say that it's bad
yeah then he's got no choice but he unironically maintains explain it in the books or the tv show
or the cartoon spin-off or the fucking lunch boxes or anything nothing disney does all these
people do not know anything about star wars when they try to write the books that even get their
own science wrong so no there is no excuse he's wrong he doesn't know anything about star wars
continue more i just think it's embarrassing to imply that over these many many centuries
nobody figured this out nobody tried it like although randomly thought these ships can go fast
what if they went fast into things that we don't like things we don't like
it's like it's like unironically suggesting oh you know how like we've got um bullets no one
thought of shooting them at people well this is dumb it's not like the idea of kamikazes and
ramming isn't wasn't already invented like obviously they can do it just not with hyperspace
they can't yeah you can see it in star wars when the you know the ships collide with one another
and empire strikes back you can do it just once you do hyperspace you create a wormhole in space
that's how you fly through space that's how the ships don't run into things that's why Han Solo
yelled at Luke in A New Hope they don't understand the science because they've never seen a freaking
star wars movie and then they go and write a star wars movie yeah i mean the worst argument is that
it's possible but they all had an agreement not to do it yeah yeah the people who blew up five
planets are gonna be blew up your whole world and then the resistance does it and we're supposed
to be on board with that thing but like even the first agreement not to use hyperspace kamikazes
fucking this that's fine it's not they're all good but no not allowed to do that i do like the idea
that that now with hyperspace it's like you can activate it and then just crash into an asteroid
like millions of kilometers away just that you couldn't have possibly seen because you're
in the same like absolutely imagine the clear path of flight you'd have to have to actually
use it if you could hit things well if you hit one tiny speck of dust along the way
it's just it's ridiculous it's so it's that's the thing when when they were writing it
like surely the person who wrote this was like this fundamentally
completely breaks down space combat oh shit this is really stupid it's like pretty much no
science fiction that i can think of has it to where they're actually sort of traveling in the
same yeah plane of existence if you know what i mean yeah because it would be broke it would
break everything mass effect doesn't have it like halo has slipped space uh the war hammer has uh
the the warp like all of this stuff is it it's all just
it's one of those obvious things that you can't write yourself into because everyone will go well
how come this isn't the basis of space combat um and then people are like oh but there aren't
explosions in space it's like yeah but you see how that doesn't like break the story but the
hyperspace one does because now you just like once you're hyperspace through that you're about
to die might as well hyperspace through that once you're hyperspacing through the death star
why don't you build ships design because it's against the law friggy how come every republic
ship right before it was destroyed well the first order didn't turn around in hyperspace jump yeah
exactly it's just it's dumb it doesn't work in its own movie i mean and plus ships that run out
of petrol aren't just going to stop moving it's space yeah you'll just keep going forever
yes yeah you will probably sail through space for 10 millions of years yes i also get it's uh
it would be too expensive to do like having a battle and losing hundreds of ships or
thousands of people's fine but sacrificing one ship to do it is too expensive so that's why
they never did it before it's insane as if you could spend human lives on hyperspace jump when
we know that robots can file fit it's just so dumb we we talked about it we got to get through
super chance this is retarded if you defend this point you are insanely stupid you just
call beigely stupid what the hell man how could you it's definitely hmm they go down this hole
of explaining it like in in that it could actually happen where it's like it's just a fucking stupid
idea to begin with like just don't wreck the other movies by doing it like even if it is
possible in the star wars universe just don't fucking do it because you've just wrecked all
those other films now yeah it's almost like a unified meta agreement between the films like
we won't do it because everyone else hasn't so there's like tlj was the the kid that came
to the party fucking threw over the table had the cake on it everyone else was like wow
but it's possible to throw over that table and wreck the cake so it makes it good
oh it depends did you expect
oh fuck that stupid hello greener video what you think is important is important like okay
logic man bad um theory fap would you rather live in a reality where ryan johnson makes every movie
or a reality where any person that the retard republican says is gay immediately becomes gay
sincerely mr massive um i want to live in both those worlds i was gonna say i don't know it
sounds kind of funny that that man would control everybody's gayness he's like a gay wizard
have we already had that in lord of the rings he would yes he would become very famous very
quickly it's like i could turn anyone gay like the most non-gayest people ever be like you can't
tip me the second he like points his finger goes pew they like who should he turn gay who
should he use that power on um hmm like a really famously homophobic person at the moment
um i mean they often turn out to be gay anyway a famous homophobe maybe he did it maybe he's the
one who's been doing it this whole time he's been the most famous homophobic person i can think of
his brown table oh yeah i get it not famous that's no he's not famous that's it i didn't i
said most famous hmm wait oh it isn't louis ferric on and like people like that aren't they
like anti-gay no bullshit turn up turn the bullshit gay
someone told you sir against it too aren't they so they'd make tom cruise
are they i think so yeah i'll google it are do Scientologists hate the gays
isn't that why John Travolta has to uh have a wife you must have a wife to declare your
anti-gay stance apparently statements made by l ron hubbard about homosexuality have led critics
to assert that Scientology promotes homophobia though these allegations are disputed by some
Scientologists oh oh okay but they also believe that cino and the galactic federation dumped a
bunch of aliens into volcanoes so it gives a shit what i think it's such a stupid he's a science
fiction author why why are you like so religious the second i found that out about Scientology i
was like oh of course oh really guys come on what's what is it the guy who like created the
religion his previous profession was science fiction writer and a bad science fiction writer
the most science fiction books written that's like it would be like if c.s louis founded his
own religion based on a lion who is like i'm the lion and i'm the big i'm the good guy or something
he goes oh yeah that's why that's where i got that from it's uh it's based in fact it's weird i'm
reading through the wikipedia page devoted to Scientology and sexual orientation for which
there is one it's not like it there's not like a big yes or no on it which is scared to run the
question constantly it's it's like there's multiple paragraphs on current Scientology
viewpoints you're like just tell me what the religion says over there you can't know what
the religion says unless you spend five grand on a book can i can i still predict for five grand
Scientologists i think five grand only gets you a pamphlet i think you got to get up to the millions
to get the proper book yes there is a tier that i it's it's funny though because you can buy like
the book Dianetics in like a bookshop um i kind of want to read it just for laughs like i feel
like it's gonna be the funniest comedy
what is good mind fellow massives hey that was partly german
hey massives congrats on 50 efaps thanks for hours of enjoyment i'm one of your older listeners and
you guys give me hope for the younger generation keep on efapping in the free world
oh we'll do it damn you windows update i like the idea that windows was shutting down the
computer and he was able to get a super chat out just before getting
he started he's like no um can't believe you're about to fap efap 24 hours for 24 hours yes we're
actually uh one hour and 26 minutes away from technically doing it fully though i started the
first start of the first stream but 24 hours ago minus 22 minutes so it's like two different
goals i guess trivia when they created the radiation poisoning makeup in hbo's Chernobyl
they actually based it off of Jim Sterling's physical appearance oh man i didn't know that
i shall make our dog is missing posters hand them out to as many people as possible and post
them everywhere i can on lampposts in corner shops upload them onto east 621 together we shall
find rags here boy whistles i guess he hasn't arrived yet don't worry rags rags will come in
at some point yay i'm on my way my boyfriend wanted me to put a gay pride sticker on the
back of my car but now i keep getting creeped on by gay black daddies so i'm
healing that shit off that has nothing to do with anything but stay strong for a smaller okay
stay strong don't get molested by the gay black daddies well can you make it to new york city by
thursday october 3rd i will be there along with most of the cast of buffy at new york comic con
no but that sounds awesome i actually met two of my favorites from uh the buffy and angel verse in
in in the the times i visited cardiff and wreck some good times yeah sorry i'm late happy sorry
grew up in the same town as the guy that was spike oh did you yeah he went to my rival high
school i met him at a grocery store and i didn't know who he was because i hadn't watched the show
yet and then when i watched the show i was like that's awesome the man buying broccoli i remember
it was the broccoli loud we were in the soup aisle uh that was the soup cloud naturally
uh sorry i'm late happy anniversary molar and co hey rags hey oh wait he's not here hi fringy oh
oh hi
john snow 22 a.m was ago i was about to say this works out people like oh fringy wasn't there to
see my best just like jokes on you fringy was here uh john snow yuma theme i get it i get it
that's great uh holds a loaded slingshot to rag his head tell me about molar why does he wear the
mask oh i don't know i honestly don't know like i i couldn't tell you he's threatening you with
a slingshot rags we could do i i don't know what i'm i don't know i don't have i you're looking for
something but i don't have damn i don't know man you got that someone else i've never been
faps so hard before also hi rags hello and then the follow up is bold of rags to strip us of our
ability to say hi to him in the 50th by not showing up i'm interested in seeing how this
tactic plays out nico nico now you know that was all for nothing if you had to genocide one species
from dr sus which one would you choose if you if you had to genocide one species from dr sus
which would you choose humans what even all the species is in dr you don't know the dr sus races
so the cat the the grinch whatever he is uh the schneeds the lorax uh yeah
i did not know that what about what about the things
what about the ones that had the stars on their bellies
do you remember those ones i think those were the those were thing one and thing two
right it's one word stars upon those
the logs
so uh i i abstain from this because i have no fucking clue what's happening what about
grinches wait wait is the grinch a who oh he's not a who okay was he oh i thought he was like
i can't remember the story now he was like the who people take care of him for a few months right
whatever that he gets booted out because he's a weird man i i can't remember i only saw the
jim carrey vision you ever watched the cartoon nope i am uncultured um i think i'd take out the
things i guess there's our answer the thing is just seemed very mischievous there were the
snitches there's all the fish you can pick a certain type of fish like a red fish or blue
fish or an orange fish can i oh can i genocide two fish uh it's not a bit greedy
we'll let you have a fish there um happy 50th i hope you continue to have a massive effect
on film criticism we hope so some people would disagree with you some people think we already
have had a massive effect that it was to the detriment of society
efap the scourge of humanity
but then they they cut to rags laughing at ocean man being played as akbar tries to float back into
the supremacy like yes this is uh this is gum of the earth gotta get rid of these people they're
too dangerous the worst rags is such a tease he can't even be bothered to show up even after he
said he would be here hours ago the clocks were fucked yes i had a clock just be clear in the super
chats we're still not to the point where rags arrived well you're about to get an inkling of
how far we are oh boy 50 whole efaps just a 50 more you massive and high rags if and when he shows up
hi there we go because i have shown up have you guys seen why jurassic park looks better than its
sequels by films and stuff uh no but no i already agree with it does look better and i i guess it
looks again i should probably check that out that sounds like it'd be cool um and then the super
chat for hour three of 24 here we go guys hour three again there been a sub since tlj rage video
what a journey it was jared bilbo rhino milk john adams goliath the dawn from the bottom of my heart
thank you guys and here's to another 50 episodes wolf we love you very kind sir nice thing sir
my wife and i watched aquaman to find out why wolf hated it so much and ended up efapping it
it took us three hours and 20 minutes thanks wolf wait three hours for 20 minutes you efapped
aquaman like did you pause it and rant yeah you can watch movies that way it's fun i did it with
metal and interstellar it took us seven hours oh i'm still that's still on my hard drive i still
plan to use it what i finally construct a script about interstellar uh the only reason i might see
episode nine is to be on the conversation on efap how does it feel to be the reason disney may
may be getting my money i i think though we'll probably cancel out with the amount of people
that we will probably persuade not to go see episode nine assuming it's terrible you can
but you definitely shouldn't but you can uh buy a ticket for a different production and then go
into a different screen you've taught him well rags do you see that you can use us our little
but don't do that that's wrong don't do that jay's all grown up uh been here since the beginning
and i've seen every stream i've seen memes birth and death anyway guys stay massive and may the
dawn be with you i love y'all bill begungus bombadool yeah imagine going to ros and palpatine
isn't in the film well we know he's definitely there in some way shape or form right
there's imagine what happens is that someone finds an audio recording of him laughing
and plays it and that's it what if they were like oh he was it originally because scenes
be like oh that would be so funny to see the actual people who got mad about that
yeah i don't think they will but they they did do the captain marvel fake entrance for the uh
the trailer what do you mean where they had the um the the pager flashing or going off for whatever
and then she walked into the room but it wasn't actually in the film that was the in scene yeah
as far as i'm aware that is in continuity the idea being she showed up because of the pager
and then they told her where tony was and so she went to get him
right how did they have that as the end scene and in her in her film yeah i i don't think it
was necessary but i guess it's just a small hook with very little progression that they can add
on to captain marvel be like hey see see we're attached to endgame see
that was pretty much that that was the main reason i wanted to see captain marvel i was
like how does this connected even though i was told like it's probably not worth it for that
i was like yeah because the trailer was not looking to be that impressive
there's always hope with mcu movies you can always have hope
um happy one year you massives i love you all from me bumble bulbous bungleton that's the
actual name of the profile thank you um bw had no stakes in endgame wait bw what would bw be
like we do black um black plant oh so uh i was talking about how it's unfair to say
so this is when we're talking about the civil war video so it's unfair to say
that a film doesn't have stakes because you know that the characters are safe because you've based
it on contracts like i was trying to say that that's not fair because fucking how can you
judge if you watch movies that way for the rest of your life then of course you'll know where and
when characters are not going to live the interesting thing is that andrew clark's
highlighting it's like oh yeah black widow uh had no stakes in endgame because we knew that she
beat her own movie it's like well she still died so yeah it's you can't even necessarily base it
and that's my conclusion is this is all post-hoc you only know that iron man survives civil war
once you've seen civil war he could have appeared in the rest of the films as like a fucking
cyborg robot imagination dream here there's loads of things it could be
where recordings could be anything
keel jay had no stakes because it only showed luke eating fish he spelled stakes
the way that you'd expect very clever every one of the toxic brood has black silk robes
all right all right all hail the cult of efap rags why are you such a late doggo
all right i guess that means he's arrived at that point well no he could still be saying
he's not here yet i was i was on for four hours and he wasn't on oh yeah we get it we get it for
you we get it yeah you were late yeah yeah i was because it's sabotage you were like because it's
sabotage it's all i'm saying an outside entity interfered what i understand what's the end what
was the answer is he called i don't know that's the thing i i don't know i could i i don't know
i want to say it was called steve well steve's a dick you could ask big idiots you probably know
the kitty is please imparting big idiots has better things to do i don't think we'll assume
stave was a dick oh this is a weird super chat just says just says wet cum and i
all right i like i like how you had to preface that with this is a weird super chat otherwise
you would have just randomly said what it was just a thought that i had that i decided to express
because i just why would you pay for that i well yeah i don't know there's a lot of well i liked
it i brought me joy there you go i thought it was funny suppose you're an adopted orphan does this
mean it's okay to bang your mom uh your adoptive mother define okay
are we talking about your biological mother no adopted you're you're adopted um it would be
incest in principle but not in technicality i guess and there's a weird it depends on ages and
what's going on in that relationship and there's a lot of things to that yeah like if you're 12
definitely not all right well yeah there's plenty of fish in the sea you don't have to do it
yes yeah there's plenty of fish in the sea one just has the statistical advantage of being around you
what if your mom is also 12 oh that's it oh yeah um yeah i still gotta say not a good idea
oh of course it's not what is this obviously oh yeah well what if what if your mom was as old as
you were like oh how old is that if your mom was as old as you were what if what if you were older
than your mom i think that is possible legally right could you adopt someone who is yeah if
there's like a like with you know time zones work right how does that make sense well because you
you can be mentally deficient to the point of being like you require a guardian and so
i don't think there'll be a parent though but your parent is okay let's say your mom is so retarded
that mentally she is younger than you are physically
your mom or your dad is divorced or widowed and they get a spouse that is younger than you
oh oh yeah that would be odd see anna's getting in with it that would be weird
yeah that's that's happened to a lot of people yeah yeah that's that's probably not entirely
uncommon like there's probably a bunch of just be plain unethical though because you're supporting
adultery no she got she got divorced and then remarried oh sorry i thought well i think i think
anna said widowed so if she was having an if she was yeah if she was having an affair
with someone younger than you that would be odd very very odd yeah don't cheat on your spouse
uh bury them bury them in a shallow grave in the woods hey guys congratulations on 50 years of 50
years of efap if you wrote out of material i made a video about what about his arguments let me know
what you think you know uh for theo thoughts on angry pickles i think that's gonna be it's from
store first there's dnd references um phoney straight up tells peter that if cap wanted to
take him out he easily could have done it i can't remember i think yeah it's because doesn't only
argue at one point that spiderman should be able to annihilate them all in like minutes i can't
remember what they say in the video but yes uh spiderman is not um an unstoppable powerhouse
in any way shape or form in civil war for many good reasons uh whoa a year you've made my commutes
into work bearable until i could afford to move closer here's to another year of efapping yes sir
uh five of this is for wolf hopefully the other five covers of processing fees also j you were
right the alien illness thing was indeed scientifically inaccurate that's weird lots
of people have told me that it's fine but lots of people have also told me that it's
really dumb so i don't know who to believe i had that about um you know in black panther where
black panther is stabbed by no sorry when all killmonger is stabbed by black panther in the heart
and then he moves all the way up through the the elevator after crossing the bridge and i was like
i'm pretty sure he'd just be straight up be dead at this point um there were people in my comment
section were like no no no if you don't remove it the heart will still you know function fine
or at least it won't kill you the heart was the thing it's a pretty big fucking knife too
and um i had a doctor contact me through email explained explicitly no he'd be dead it's like
oh okay arguing that getting stabbed in the heart is okay if you leave the knife inside of it
yes just a good place to keep your knife the idea is it's i mean you're not gonna lose it that's for sure
but not like in the heart the heart you're dumb because if you remember he pulls it out and then
he's dead like a knife implying that keeping the knife in was all that kept him alive
he would have died like almost seconds after that yeah that's what the doctor told me it
extended explanation that not only would he probably have keeled over relatively soon after
the stab itself the idea that he would have traveled across the whole bridge and gone up
in elevator and like crawled forward is fucking ridiculous and i was like yay but then again maybe
that doctor's wrong who knows also some people are saying it's five minutes until we hit 24 it's not
if you look at the the previous efaps it's an eight hour and a nine hour this one's got to reach
a seven hour 24 hours since you started that's true but does that count does does that count
no don't really unfortunately like i appreciate that in four minutes i've been up for 24 hours
and the first stream was started 24 hours ago but there were i guess three 20-minute breaks exactly
almost yeah i guess they were timed that way i tried to keep those breaks as quick as possible
it took ages to get me to the right places i'm so sorry anyway um also great to see you
fringy and theo that's kind um i was in a dark place and can't overstate how much of a positive
impact your fapping has had on me strange as that may sound so thank you and if rags is here by now
hi rags if not then hi everyone just not jay oh wow several of the efap meme videos specified
that jade died where everyone lived i don't know i wrote the uh the christmas story
and everybody lived except for kyle who just died of AIDS
what does it say about a person i don't know
uh celebrating one year and hoping you do more bob videos for your suffering brings us joy
be it to robert oh hour four of 24 this is actually a really great way to stake progress
this is good shit uh that's my first stream live i must go now but i listen to it later stay long
my friends we shall hey rags
hey and happy anniversary to you all wolf i have enjoyed your content and i'm sad your channel's
gone however i hope it was for your own good i would say so uh tfa part three when if i was to
tell you a date it wouldn't be held to which is why i'm actually enticed to go with what rags
actually said which is august of 2020 if i've set that as the date i can only surprise people in a
positive way august 2020 just subvert their expectations yeah i'd rather you know what's
gonna happen it's gonna get to around like a month before august 2020 it's not quite finished
i'll be like oh fuck like sweating like cooking stuff uh when is the force awaken series gonna
finish august no rags when is it gonna finish when's all six parts gonna be out um 20 28
2028 august 2028
september September 2028 i'm glad that yeah uh when is the oh you should have jordan peterson
on to discuss how the last jedi fails to rescue its father from the belly of of the whale
thus revitalizing the past while moving on to the future or something like that um
i'd have jordan peterson oh yeah it'd be hilarious yeah he's welcome
jordan peterson's absolutely welcome to uh come to efap and discuss all sorts of things
uh wanted to leave my mark on this momentous occasion been watching since the full macintosh
stream efap 3 thanks for many hours of entertainment oh memories memories memories
uh dark knight rises is one of the best meme movies is it is it is the good meme material
for dark knight rises hmm i've not known that but uh french of the sith is the best meme movie
oh definitely but i mean it's not not to say that there aren't other meme movies that are
pretty good he said one of the best meme movies i did not know dark knight rises was a good meme
father i was uh congratulations on hitting your 50th fap the newest video on my channel covers a
game which i played because of a rags video shadow warrior 2 and it's my longest yet long man good
also hi rags hello molly you bad yeah shadow warrior is great shadow warrior 2 is also great
buy them both
molly you bad man wolf you massive hi rags hello this is the middle it's my favorite part
all of this rhymes because of subjectivity in rat it's my favorite part it's my favorite part
my favorite part objectivity in rat you hello all my m words hi rags
oh hello hi mauler and guess hello hello again hello uh for shame rags you should have brought
your rhino milk yesterday in preparation for today i actually got a fresh gallon of milk today
what kind of milk yeah cow milk
like milk i like milk too i'm a big milk drinker drink lots of it but you don't drink right and
you don't drink water do you i do drink lots of water i drink lots of water just milk and water
is what i drink more than anything else build strong no no i don't think anna drinks water
how do you live either
what do you think about the announcement live wait what
wait you don't drink any water at it don't i don't like the taste of water what
tastes gross then just drink tea that's like the 99% water but it tastes completely different
no i have uh the little like meo things so i'll put that in water so it tastes like fruit punch
but i won't drink water just by itself oh man it's a good thing you were born in the 21st century
what does this taste like different wherever you go yeah does it even taste different out of like
different faucets and like different water fountains but i just don't like the taste of water
wow you know so you like punch you like punch flavored water uh yeah when like when dehydrated
or like tired from like a workout or something water is like the greatest drink on the planet
for me at that point oh hang on yeah that too apple juice water is like the is like it's like
liquid elevator music what uh yeah in what way
i feel like he's not going i asked in what way oh i thought that was like a super chat
and he just had stopped awkwardly um well it's um water is like
like elevator music because elevator music is uh it's really it's like it's not it's an offensive
it's easily digestible it just kind of happens you know you just kind of go along with it
you know it doesn't really make a statement it doesn't really set much of a mood or tone even
it's just um it's just there it's subtle it's easy drinking
but anna's just explained how she finds it disgusting well i guess that means she's a freak
probably there we are i i i uh and we have crossed the i've been awake for 24 hours and
three minutes now me one more hour to go for the stream though and i don't want to haunt anybody's
perspective on how many super chats are left so i i'll just not saying carry on it's where you go
keep going man keep going what do you think about the announcement of the matrix four
no i'm depressed why i don't know man like did did they already fuck up matrix do we need to
why not right it's like let's just fuck up everything yeah it's like they've confirmed
a whole bunch of actors coming back that are dead so it was in like in the narrative you're
like okay i guess i'll just have to reset the matrix bring everybody back i don't know
um i'd be pretty impressive if they were dead in real life
the wonders of cgi oh your grandma's talking do with him well charlie chaplin charles chaplin
uh i made a response to the last line of this video
i'm guessing that would have been the civil war video
um rags is here quick play akbar's theme
what that's not akbar's theme rags how could you fishy fishy fishy
all right then
rags you're right mate
yeah i'm fine i'm hanging in there oh the next screenshot is literally hi rags
oh hi hello it's good to see you i'm glad that you came by on the 50th anniversary
it's from james moorland don't worry rags i thought this was supposed to start at six in
the afternoon and not in the morning yeah i know right time fucking abolish time
no more time we don't want it not bad bad
uh i i don't need to hear an asian man say what's good about the dark night
rises it wasn't made for him oh three larson quotes beautiful who was it made for who was
dark night made for the raisins batman if you aren't batman then you should get for free
but gotham was ashes maybe a million copies was made for developmentally challenged children
rags you tease showing up like batman i'm not a tease rags you tease showing up four hours late
hot don't think of it as me showing up four hours late think about it as everyone else showing up
four hours early uh rags is the sort of guy to tell you to think critically if it says socialism
doesn't work because of venezuela nice one rags oh oh yeah that's the only reason it doesn't work
that's right venezuela is the only reason it doesn't work there are no other reasons
point two of it not working um brilliant may the dawn shower you all with ample rhino milk
oh yes bosoms
well when i heard rags had guts i was literally shaking how can anyone be so irresponsible and
problematic to not to own not one but two glock nades glock and nades glock nades
i don't know what does he mean glock nades i think he's combining grenades with glocks
i can't i can't own grenades we can't you can't own grenades here just believe oh yeah that's true
just believe in yourself rags i think it would be cool to have a grenade yeah yeah just in case
they probably have a really gnarly long shelf life um not you fill out the pen
uh um annal annalvo i'll say i'll say it that way we all love it no i don't know what you're
talking about jay but i was stepping back putting a bread tape um ej spider-man suffering from success
spider-man isn't swimming in success at the moment really suffering from success i know but
yeah i was using a different word from the word you used oh i thought you were trying to say that
like i guess you would be swimming in success in order to be suffering from it yeah i have to be
having success like he's drowning in success you know like you know you can't be you can't
be suffering from success if you only got a bit of success you know like you're drowning in a pool
you could suffer from any amount of success
depending on what the success is be successful and suffer because of it well okay so like say i
was successful in um i don't know achieving you break your leg and you get a massive lawsuit
payout because of it what about the lady that invented x-rays she died of cancer because she
didn't know that x-rays caused cancer so she suffering from her success sounds pretty dumb
um
amazing examples now you will accept them and we will proceed okay very well i enjoy our talks
going to get a week's worth of efap to watch have to get at least one super chat in hi rags
hello thanks for spending your super chat on me he also said hi meowler hello and cast
oh and the cast said nothing back and the cast said nothing back
mathematically said in his mgs reviews that it can be a good for a game to intentionally have
bad elements if it's designed to achieve a certain experience how do you objectively judge such
moments um that seems very contextual yeah i'd have to see examples and then really
i'd love to fucking talk to him probably because i i need a bunch of defining words to find
it's possible there might not be a way to objectively measure that it's just how well
it pulls off what it's trying to get across and hopefully it resonates with those people possible
if it if like acting is bad on purpose because something is a parody or whatever
yeah something like that that could be uh sort of an example yeah i feel like if you're talking
about metal gear solid it would be something that's deliberately too sin annoying because
like kojima wanted it to be that way it just seems like what are you be referring to if it's
like metal gear solid maybe maybe maybe i can't believe it's already episode 50 thanks for giving
me something to listen to while at work no problemo just whistle while you work appreciate
the past year of laughs and discussion also introducing me to the gbp folks yes the great
british podcast and the question mark equals frog that would be uh rogald i suppose i'm wrong
yes everybody's least favorite meme
and yet it survives through memes it was it was good enough to make the list
that's not specifically favorite meme i was going to say this is there's a lot it's like
a thousand beams we we took yeah don't worry you're not as popular as aids bus
uh least favorite popular as aids bus
uh happy 50th episode efab and thank you and we've just hit our five of 24 this archangel
has helped is in an interesting way more than you may have realized here to hail the hate mongers of
the toxic brood hail hello hello all my n words it's a miracle but i don't have to work today
praise fred and his apostle the dawn how are my fellow brooders in chat doing uh we're brooding so
hard right now i feel the brood oozing out of all my pores all right okay and uh that was directed
to chat but yeah rags has thrown in his answer as well chat you want to that he direct he said how
is everyone in chat doing oh wait the super chat asked about chat sound allowed as well if we went
yeah we we can count as being in chat i'm in chat i'm in chat i'm in chat i'm in chat what did
what was his question rags are you okay i'm fine i'm doing great what was his question
he was asking how are you oh um i'm here i'll answer it in chat
there nailed it yeah i don't see anything in chat that's because you're slownled
oh there it is just put a smiley face there rags how people gonna know that that's not passive
aggressive oh okay i'm fine thanks yeah i'll put an exclamation point i'll put an exclamation point
and don't put a smiley face oh god it's a brown table video maybe i'll catch the next defap then
it was it was fun on the bun that went fine it was fine it worked out also hi rags
oh hello i was an extra in the dark night rises i was in the scene where bane blows up the
football field i think the movie is not good though well he's had some fun being a work then
i mean i mean yeah he's fun being an extra regardless i'd be an extra in in ryan johnson's
next but no i wouldn't well that's that's a common criticism of the dark night it's that
the extras were kind of shit oh because it's rags is shitting on you buddy wait can you is it i
wonder if there's actually a movie because that was just not a real thing i was just being silly
but these are actually a movie that like got knocked in the ratings because like the extras
were shit all right not on the ratings but specter has a famously shit extra in it yeah the broom
man the broom and the sweet broom yeah that's true the um the the one of the points calls
me what made was the the extras in the ramie films were pretty tismy i don't know if that's
100 true i'd have to check through uh batman baggings i'm going on an adventure
yeah that would be the opening of the hobbit batman film can we please have a whole hour dedicated
to slo-nald we we had a we had a section i don't know if it was an hour it probably was a decent
amount of chunk of time with with slo-nald hello where is time his face wasn't ad friendly so he
blurred it oh no no it was an artistic choice blurred because the will didn't need him no no
how could you jay that it just so happens that my artistic vision lines up with what is advertiser
theo what are your in-depth thoughts on dmc he's making a video for that
he's he's good for that i know you know that storphus i know you know he was gonna make his
first video and it's gonna be great the common thing i see said is that bruce is the costume
for batman so maybe that was what they were trying to go for we uh we did cover that so
what we've talked about it at least that's such a wanky thing to say you're a wanky thing
but bruce is the costume for batman i am literally too tired to wank after this cool all right
right after rachel died a wanky thing for me i'm sure you like we're saying but you know it's
tired i have to be to not have enough energy for wangin three out of tired yeah man that's a three
overtired oh man that's i'm just realizing was the person who actually said that the person who left
the super chat because now i feel bad or were they quoting someone super chat person i think you
had a great question the one that said well they they said it's a common thing i see said that
bruce is uses the costume okay yeah that's fine yeah that's the wanky thing to say um after rachel
died they gave him eight years of middle yeah that's kind of true batman just became a recluse
i don't think anyone deserves that kind of punishment he imposed it upon himself rags what can you do
uh he needs to snap out of it he's not in his right mind that much middle one person
didn't they write didn't they write he was obviously catching up on efap for eight years
yeah i i don't i don't i think that that's probably what bruce was doing he was watching
all the efap episodes why not that's a lot of efap uh in comics bruce's mask batman is true persona
oh yes he's a couple a couple supporting things with that yeah i can be myself yay bat pride
much love for all you massives much love for you too thank you very much it's a kind thing to say
i made a video on the last line of this crap video oh so i guess it was the video about batman
what was the last line of that video um uh
goodbye oh you made you made a comment about him saying goodbye all right
yes thank you for watching my film i hope you have a safe trip back to your houses
bane died in the most anticlimactic way possible when bane got shot and i was in the cinema i
didn't believe it i was like so is he gonna get back up is it gonna be a big fight again like no
he's just gone okay so bad oh lame where's the trigger where is it where's the trigger
oh
round table of all people gonna tell us hey it's not as bad as you think
come on man pick an easier target for yourself
um why are you talk why are you massive talking about sony spider-man isn't coming out oh no
so darth vader copied bane's voice and mask yeah darth vader's kind of a rip off of bane if you think
it totally makes sense well the original bane surely does predate darth vader so
um no he doesn't he's from 1991 he wouldn't call me shirley he wasn't 1991 was his debut he's
definitely one of the later sort of uh batman villains and that was a fact check with fringy
quinn was that was a freaky fact check millman i think uh i think holly quinn debuted in the
animated series she did i know that that's another freaky fact check movie please subscribe to
fringy's fact checks what can i say i like batman i like that you like batman welcome to facts with
frog did you know that the sugar and the urine of a diabetic is identical to grape sugar
to what is that enjoy these facts and many more and facts with frog hold
top of the hour the bobby hour did you say grape sugar yeah yeah i thought he said someone else
fair enough rags rags angry joe is going on a twitter trump rant what did you say you cut out
like the g was cut out by oh oh oh you thought i was a rapist yeah okay rags angry joe is going
on a twitter trump rant again he didn't learn from your battlefield five video are you gonna
make another angry joe video what did what did the orange man do i mean you could probably
have a look i'm not he's done a lot of things in his in his time that's that's particularly
objectionable to the angry joman yeah i have no like no idea but i imagine it's all on twitter
ready for you to go and check out if you want to but i mean you know it's up to you maybe uh don't
you guys see if we truly wish to understand nature we simply need to put on the subtitles
yep that's actually very applicable i remember the memes for that i i i remember checking in
for the long haul good luck massives and we've hit hour six out of 24 yeah that one that hour
blew by and uh we're we got 44 minutes left until we hit 24 hours um roundtables videos draw into
mouth by contracting the muscles of the lip to make a vacuum on my decaying bung hole oh my
i would like to thank skillshare for giving me the ability to say this
i don't know i don't know that skillshare would it would it would it uh
imagine you were like the most popular youtuber ever right and skillshare really wanted to help
get boosted by a platform but you demanded that you say that about their product
what about the what i just read out like they'd be like i mean you know the promotion would be
really good but i'm sure that a good company would go for it because people have senses of humor
a good company what do you mean by that a company with goods in in it oh like the they build good
factories yeah that makes it you know it's like a happiness company that makes happiness
happy oh sorry superchats won't let me say suck oh but really are they that anal you can't say
anal i know you can't say anal oh oh people have said anal that's a medical word can you can you
type out edad wait how is suck not applicable medically no he's not allowed to say suck
200 with the fully yeah it depends what he had after suck surely here wouldn't that apply to
adel as well yeah we had such a little term like i need to like have you had sex in the last 40
minutes or something like that you know something like a medical question
yes have any of you seen a big guy the last i saw him he trashed my plane
oh and the profile is mr cia and it's the guy from the beginning of dark knight rises
he did that was that was a bit he did all that for a bit listen
um i i begged brown table not to do this
brown table please apparently yeah bahabad rabbit dad apparently knows him i find that
beyond the music like it's not in your best interest don't do it
stop it uh give euro to rags have any of you massive seen the movie hansu from japan
i have not seen hansu i have not oh okay all right well you learn something new every day
um also can you tell my friend mario to watch it with me thank you
watch it with him mario do it come on man i'm gonna sit this needs to
come on sit the chinese crack open three beers go nuts
maula if i pull that mask off will you die well yes that's worth testing isn't it
hello all my rass rassives
racives what is that a reference i don't know um my tism loves the pedantry on pronunciation
thumbs up hi rags hello
i mean i think we've all met slash known people who get vexed when someone mispronounces their
name regardless if it's accidental or on purpose oh right yeah we figured out apparently according
to canon this was provided to us by veto that um if you support the ideas of the character his
correct pronunciation of his name is ray shalgul but if you're against him
and you don't like what he does you're supposed to call him raza algul
i like people don't know how it's pronounced or who he is that that came from like apparently
like the most canon source you could have which did not help figuring out the answer but i thought
it was fascinating nonetheless i like the idea that that explanation only exists because they're
like oh fuck we've been pronouncing it differently and different things yeah come up with a reason
why a lot of time travel yeah that's that's what i was told by the way i don't have a source outside
of veto saying that was a case from the case from his source um yes i feel like i've been
freeloading off these podcasts of 50 episodes now so i figured i'd throw some cash away for
all the hard work you marsh and mole cops thank you uh someone needs to take the long long man
japanese bubblegum commercials and turn it into an efab meme asap also high rags hello um e-man
gameplay made one and i actually put it into my uh tfa part two it's near the beginning
i bet you can't pronounce the longest word in the english language
pneumonural tramic microscopic silico volcano neosis
that is um i'd need a few attempts at that one i'll post it for you guys you guys
don't look easy you know
oh yeah you can pronounce it it's just whether you pronounce it correct or not
pneumonulosis hmm 50th episode equals 24 hour 100 episode equals
i don't think we'll be going past 24 for that one too i don't want to make a thing where we go to 48
hours a week a week batman found out the joker was right that we truly do live in a society
that's why he chose to hang up his cape don't forget he hung up his balls his leg braces i guess
it's coplage that was it uh jesus lol is it south pole's time about up wow that's that's me
not a crowd favorite i'm writing that down in the notes for future reference pretty sure well if we
did a poll i'm pretty sure most would be approving apparently that one super chat very much was not so
nope yeah but three opinions with no money is like one opinion with money so there you go
so it's 50 50 nope no thanks for all that you do you massives do give wolf a bit of this i hope
he's doing well abs
bane sees fire wait bane sees fire bane masaka uh is uh is that a reference
i don't know how we all right uh is bane's impossible plot hole worse than finn's
what impossible plot hole are they referencing with bane i'm trying to think of what we went over
is it to do with like his personality like where he is compared to how he speaks and who
it's probably not worse than finn's finn's is really bad what's his impossible plot hole
well i'm assuming they're referring to the impossible nature of the character compared
to their origin like how he's finn the way he is considering everything about him like
that sort of thing and i guess something could be said about that for bane i'm not 100 sure i'd have
to go back shut up and take my money also hi rags hello i missed the last few efaps and i'm
catching up i paused and came here to say play new vegas you heretic is that directed at me
that's probably directed at me everyone should play it maybe one day
uh mr president believe in your own justice i do not know what that's a reference
is golfing but there's no way we're there no is gotham good bat also spiderman baby monitor
spiderman did i sound like efap did i say efap is pay to win
oh yeah i did just a moment ago yeah yeah you said opinions that are paid are more valuable
than ones that aren't i guess i mean they are more well sort of like value but no it's just
just say speak from your heart and be true to yourself and that's not for the game yeah well
you know what gay people should do it too yeah i should know yeah stick that in your pipe and
smoke it i don't have a pipe i have yes well funnily enough i'm not actually referring to you
but jay from red letter media thinks that dark night rises gets too much hate from fans and
viewers if you two had a chat about this film what would you say i'd say he's wrong it gets
just about exactly as much hate as it probably should get if not less dark night rises is garbage
a girl just sent me a picture of a squirrel that she thought was pretty cute too cute not to share
he is a cute squirrel all right i'm waiting where's the squirrel yeah show the squirrel it's
on my phone i don't think i should share you said it's too cute not to share and then you
didn't share no she said she said it's too cute not to share oh i want to see it now
oh you know what get a girlfriend did you get squirrel pictures then you can get squirrel
pictures you can get pictures of idle rodents that's a cute squirrel though uh i finished with
ski roost carolyn insists the eastern gray squirrel a uh very common creature around these here parts
rags is hallucinating no no no no no i doubt there's definitely a picture of a squirrel
uh i finished with work so now i can listen to you massive uninterrupted since you're talking
about batman what do you guys think of the arkham games uh i've only played arkham
asylum and city and i love both of them very difficult but yeah i think they get pretty
challenging i think they're great except for arkham night which i never played because
that game had so much going against it for me yeah i heard bad things a lot about it but i never
played it oh no it didn't work on pc i never i haven't played them they were well funnily enough
it didn't work for a lot of people there were some people that had no problems with and um alex was
one of those people he was like it works without a hitch it's like yeah you were lucky apparently
yes oh is it like really glitchy yeah i guess it was down to specific specs
like of your pc oh oh yeah right when it came out it was just an absolute travesty in terms
of performance it was so bad they pulled it from steam i right yeah i remember that yeah that was
a deal still not worse than mkx is launched though oh well it has a menu it didn't even have a menu
the bed you could launch the menu and all the options would be faded out
wait for everyone but yeah because the they tried to release it in like a package format
where you could boot the game and it would download portions of the game while you played it
but like it fucked up on steam and for the delivery and nobody was able to download anything
beyond the main menu that's not it was a disaster total biscuit covered the shit out of it it was
hilarious and uh yeah they kept trying to fix it over and over again and then one brothers gave
up and said uh fuck it pc can deal with what they have wow that's why i didn't want to buy any more
combat games ever again you remember that shit fringy wasn't that great yeah it's uh it's bad
bad bad bad uh red let him eat your video on last jedi is amusing and frustrating mike makes
comments that the film is bad then jane rich make fun of fans criticisms like raving and mary sue
do they still think this uh i'm not sure but if you watch that video mike is clearly restraining
himself from ripping into tlj he like desperately wants to talk about how terrible it is but he's
already getting it like small stabs because you can clearly tell that rich and jay are mostly
mad about it and um the part i think that gives away the most is the fact that he just randomly
blitz out have you seen star wars directed a riot johnson sir um but yeah no i think that
they all at this point have a very unfavorable view they they fucking whenever it's referenced
in best of the worst it's usually like you know at least it's not as bad as the last
yellow or at least it didn't do a thing like the last like it's usually derogatory uh and
and he's melting all the old toys yes i'm pretty sure they hate it they just haven't been as over
about it um happy 50th gents i'm starting a bit late but i'm going to try and catch up with
from beginning with the time acceleration so wish me luck oh good luck is anyone else
getting that distortion from mauler yes your mike's going a little fritzy fritzy poo
according to the connection we're one bar out of three
singapore comes the rescue three bars yay thanks singapore singapore is the hero story if ever
you're in doubt on discord people singapore um hour seven of 24 look at that a quarter of the way
through seven hours in the south pole broke here's buddy the table is brown because it's made of
bullshit oh the theme in cool cat saves the kids is about rising after falling down it was super
impactful oh yes this is the thing we were trying to throw it like all kinds of bad movies uh i've
referenced this before but like we were talking to i hate everything about as theme can save anything
and i said the i did one for suicides oh no wait suicide squad was a not so great debate guy but i
think i repeated it fried everything as well but yeah you can slap a theme on anything and so um
it's more important how it was executed and what it means in relation to the source as opposed to
just being there have any of you seen the movie infinii i i i don't know i don't recognize that
if so how would you say it holds up objectively yeah i have no idea what it is
and i don't think anybody here does nope anti-efap payf passive aggressive film essayists
that's a pretty good acronym actually maybe we'll steal that uh you're keeping me going tonight boys
my dissertation is due in tomorrow so i'll be here all night if i get it submitted i'll be sure to
include the toxic brood on my acknowledgments also hi rags hello what the fuck you started
seven hours ago i just got here i can't believe i missed this evap all those donos all that time
the compelling arguments against the 19th amendment all right and i missed the most
important word um yes we're seven hours into the um into the street as a whole while we're
29 minutes away from reaching 24 hours uh i fixed london buses they all have aids and if you get hit
by one when you have aids you get super aids also rags have you ever painted warhammer figures
i have not access it's respect to those who can do it and do it really well i imagine it's
very rewarding but tough time consuming a lot of skill uh theo you should know himla didn't do
nothing i remember when that was referenced traveling during this massive efap but i'm looking
forward to watching it all back made jared and the chos chosmic cosmic chicken guide you safely to
100 the chosmic kicking um i'm so sad i messed up my sleep schedule so much and now i've gone and
missed the most important efap of all what good was insomnia if it let me down would it battered
most how can you miss this efap by having any sleep schedule i was gonna say you won't miss
a good portion of it regardless you should be fine he said i could have made seven hours of
based super chess that's that's poor ra mullah and crew as i am the embodiment of the cia
i demand a reenactment of the plain scene from the dark night rises all of us play bane rag as
dr pabel and blessed southpaw is me we'll think about it we'll think about it i'm way behind on
the law but i'm very glad i got to catch even a snippet of this massive event live congrats on 50
ladies and gentlemen take my poor uni student shackles also high rags oh hello thicker than a
bowl of oatmeal all right oh yeah molar i binged the rest of buffy season one had a good time why
is there a lewd rags you have to ask that does anyone have to ask that ultimately it's not what
i've known and buffy i know just uh what we had on screen at certain portions during this entire
misconstrued as potentially suggesting uh why have spiderman lead the mcu and we already have
captain marvel oh yeah i'd follow her anywhere also hi rags oh hi gotta hit the bed see you again
in a few hours i was from hans i wonder if he's awake already oh my god you correct he could have
slept a full sleep thing and then opened his eyes and got tired and went back to sleep
open up woke up sword uh what i hope for future of mcu thor is to save him from wait
what i hope for future mcu thor to save him from fem thor his introduction of beta ray bill
at his statue in ragnarok so we know he exists yeah it's possible hour eight of 24 hey that
one went quicker you know the the gaps i think it's hard to tell it's hard to like the passage
of time is hard to kind of gauge oh we're into so we we've just completed uh first stream we're on
the second stream now welcome back here we go part two massives may the dawn bless you always
what's your opinions on rogue one uh see the fight at the end was nifty everyone loves the
fight at the end and if you don't your heartless and k2so was enjoyable and fun yes characters are
bland but the story is well done characters are bland a lot of the actions it's really like don't
know if i want to confirm that the story was well done i'm not sure about that i don't really
sure it's solid i don't really enjoy rogue one there i need to watch it again it's okay right
uncontroversial take it is the best disney star wars film yeah i'm on board with that yes
yeah we're like a depressing agreement like yeah yeah it was the least shit of them all
you watched that battle at the end after watching last jedi and it looks a lot better yeah it does
yeah well it just it is as well it's not even like a feel say it's like yeah it's just well
constructed compared glad all the shit and it like it cares they got y-wings yeah y-wings
are present even though they're apparently going to be in episode nine too so even though nobody
knows what y-wing is unless why they shouldn't oh it's like it's just a repeating waves of
remembering all of the terrible arguments everyone's made throughout all of the sea
fappiness see what that we do um but yes rogue one is the best of the disney star wars films i think
that kind of sums up the take yeah we're in the middle game now oh my long man it's the middle
molar an eta of the tfa critique part three august 2020 thank you for that rags it's actually very
helpful now you're welcome i'm just trying to seem like an appropriate number uh poop there's
a such a poop molar get theo to get some alcatisms i can't force theo to drink
theo probably drives how could i be that irresponsible
um i had a talk with one of hella greedo's friends slash mods and he said that greedo will admit
star wars is dead if palpatine actually comes back to life in episode nine oh really well first of
all i'd like to know what he means by dead like it could still make money more than likely but is it
dead in terms of like credibility or in the soul of it yeah i don't know i'm not sure what he
means about that so i probably would agree with him depending on how he defines it i don't know
um hey there molar rags and co hello hello how are you been a huge fan of efap since december 2018
keep being awesome you absolute massives also hi rags hello hi hi you twice in one super chat not
bad oh man he's getting his money's worth uh that feel when you stop to nap but efap appears in your
dream do you remember that one we read out where we were disembodied discord circles so the guy in
the dream because we were commenting on stuff how many people do you think have dreamt about efap now
uh 17 exactly yes this could be a dream right now and i wouldn't know mhm hi rags
oh hey there hello all of these racetisms saying long man bad shake my head it's person of length
naughty yeah that's actually how you're supposed to say person of length naughty
uh happy anniversary been watching since the drama with quinton and tiaro and i hate everything
yeah that's a good place to jump in you know got a good good good understanding of just what this
enormity is all about um light cap i'm with you to the end of the line well we're approaching
that in terms of if you look back at the 23 and a half hours you know relative to that we're
approaching at the end of the line uh roll tide for jeremy oh this would be when jeremy dropped in i
guess one glass of rhino milk please doable you need to contact the bartender uh just finished
packing for college now i can relax relax and watch some efap cheers to another 50 episodes
they think we'll stop at 50 we will never end we are like a force of nature the last episode will
be episode 9 4 6 because uh a comet will hit earth and we'll be like fuck it upload quick
and it's like nope 347 doesn't get up or whatever i said hi rag
hi hey and he said in brackets almost forgot the s but it's not connected to the rag part so
it's like saying hi rag almost forgot the s benefit of the doubt benefit of the doubt
you know okay gotta play it safe um apparently tyt thinks the u.s deserved 9 11 thoughts uh so
someone have been talking about this in discord apparently chenk yuga is trying to get him
to roll back on that statement yeah it's pretty it's it's so bad even chenk yuga is like listen
stop can't be saying that uh hey guys big fan at some point you have to efap to the last jedi is
not disappointing by brown table oh absolutely brown table is a treasure i was gonna say i
didn't even know about this but we will okay maybe i do know about it i feel like i must have
seen that there's no way disappointing but uh brown table is a treasure and so we will
definitely cover that in future um i'm playing republic commando for an upcoming video project
efap set to prequel era music is nice but every time i glance down hello greeter's helmet makes
me want to shoot my own clone brothers oh it's not their fault oh it's found the video and
the thing that says on it the thing on the thumbnail of brown table's video is false
expectations that's what it says oh for fuck's sake we'll get another load of those arguments
false expectations you expected a progression fool help i got caught in my own zipper again
oh no oh man that sucks that's the worst ot suck because it's historically inaccurate
that's true oh it sucks because it wasn't like the comics oh shit i didn't even know they were ot
comics fuck i can't wait to see the broom boy in episode nine that would be really funny well
if there aren't comics and you make a film the film won't be like then then there won't be comics to
make sure that the film is lining up with them with them right so they won't have a accompanying
comics that are correct yeah so does that make it bad yeah absolutely right that was nailed it's
like a formula you just created um i i do see numbers flying around in the air around my head
i just can't make them up i can't make them up last stream was amazing half of it was amazing
the other half was suicidal cause of movie bobby oh man yeah yeah he was movie bob there's a spell
i can't quite put my finger on it i think it's the speed and i don't even know he has a very annoying
sort of a manner of speaking there are people who unironically consume his videos with enjoyment
and it's like wow how did you do it how did you do it yeah i can't wait for jj to soft reboot
superman when i first saw superman it was practical and real you knew when you saw it that it was all
real wait jj is rebooting superman that really why not i was about to say i believe it like
i'm assuming this just happened do everything reboot reboot reboot reboots just a whole
superman is a self-insert for jj abrams that's pronounced jajabrams
well yeah i was gonna say doom doom cockroface to him is jajar abrams oh
is the correct way i believe um
so fellas hasan piker has said america deserved 911 how does that make you feel
i mean i haven't heard it whatever his justification is but holy fuck um hasn't surprised me
there was a guy i'm not sure it was in navy seal but he was in the military and yeah and he had an
injury like an eye injury um and he said a lot of derogatory things about him too he said that the
guy who shot him was brave um which like you don't say things like that you know you just
you don't say things like that if you drank someone else's bath water do you deserve 911
the question for the gods
can't even begin to fathom
um disney give me half sony it's trees and then 720 spin
now that is an episode three reference
that was that was in the trailer and i remember being like what in the world
what noise did he just make uh well it was not not cool though it was like holy fuck
you're a monster type i don't know uh as bad as the sequel trilogy is the prequels are objectively
worse efap is not fanboy enough to be a part of the fandom menace ask jeremy about s gun
um as bad as the sequel trilogy is the prequels are worse no no i don't really agree that the
prequels are worse i think they're better there's there's much more to point out about the prequels
that functions compared to the sequel trilogy sequel trilogy is a disaster tfa and tlj put
together is just a train wreck um and it's not to imply that the prequels don't have a lot of damage
in them but holy fuck come on um they got like a coherent structure yeah i know a lot of people
have said this but when you watch them after watching the last jedi it's a whole different
experience like all the problems you have don't seem as bad it's actually fun it's actually fun to
watch yeah you're like oh this this was a star wars film i didn't think he got it right at the
time but there's an actual story here uh hey mauler if you want a 10-minute video to respond
to this terminator related check out 3c films terminator dark fate stop woke talk uh fair enough
i thought you're gonna suggest something like terminator 2 is bad and i'd be like
um you can't say that i know it's evil love you guys i've watched every episode of efab and you
never fail to make me think critically and laugh hysterically all hail the toxic brood thank you
very much i'm glad you enjoy uh tis a poor use of money for a good cause eat drink and stay awake
my good fellows i await patiently for the moolah archive cheers it shall be arriving i i kind of
want to before i sleep at least get one of the first part up because otherwise i could sleep for
a while and i don't want to like you know keep it down for that long so we'll have to see i'm
already at nearly 25 hours of awakeetisms so i'm gonna gonna run on fumes uh respect for our master
raggish yes raggish ruggish raggish how rag is it raggish it's raggish well it depends on if you
agree with me and support me i am rags if you if you don't then you pronounce it like rags with
the apostrophe over here is some funny for jeremy all right got paid boys here's somebody to celebrate
a year of efap been watching since episode three which was oh my god you remember covering
mackintosh's video on tlj rags that shit was something else that was terrible i remember it
but man that video was shit good times it's just going going back to the efap annals of history
hi rags hi man i didn't think it'd get worse than milkshakes i wanted to apologize for not
taking it more seriously i hope i can keep my badge and milk oh i guess they didn't think the
milkshakes were bad this is the thing i could forgive someone for thinking that it's not a big
deal to throw a milkshake at a person but you have to really think about it why something should be
like why we should consider it a big deal to to do that and why we should uh put efforts into
preventing it i've got i've got a great one for this it wasn't about milkshake it was about someone
who threw an egg at a nazi what was an actual nazi i was going to say there's a lot to clarify
he was wearing a swastika and flying a sweat like a big flag with a swastika on it so i think
it would be charitable to assume that he wasn't one okay so um someone throws an egg at him and
like at the top comment on the post was like why are people um celebrating this like assault
it's still bad to assault people even if they are like horrible horrible people you shouldn't
assault them you should use words correct and then the first reply to that was um
because one thing uglier than racism is turning a blind eye i'm like those are not the only two
options uh yeah okay you know i could either ignore this or throw an egg how can how can
turning a blind eye be uglier than racism
um i guess they're saying turning a blind eye to racism as in you allow it to happen an actual
racism yeah yeah it's not worse it's literally couldn't be but because the the only thing that
makes it bad is the thing being bad in the first place so it can't be worse than the thing that's
making it bad i think that follows anyway can you guys think of any character assassination
as badass or worse than luke and tlj denarius and game of thrones his name uh cortana and halo five
i don't know and this is the thing by the way it might sound like i'm biased towards game of thrones
or something but i don't think you'll ever find an assassination worse than denarius she literally
killed hundreds of thousands of innocent people when she's entirely motivated by freeing innocent
people like it's probably one of the most significant she's motivated by murder she's
motivated by bad she's evils the myth adopter irrational and stupid that seems like a pretty
big character assassination well this is the thing a lot of people will be like how could you say that
eddie world is bigger than luke's it's like yeah this is we're dealing with heavy hitters all round
of the ones we've just mentioned so it is tough um to securely put it but for me before discussing
it in depth about every one of them i'd go with denarius uh that one shot where there's
the kid that's crying over her wounded mother trying to drag her body out of the street so
the dothraki don't cut it down further and they both get incinerated by denarius to me i'm just
like okay i'm out nicely i'm out and um yeah it's it's bad what they did to luke it's bad what they
did to cortana from what i understand and the same for the doctor and dr who it's just well
well let's put it this way right like cortana just up and decides after she uploads herself
to a computer that like i gotta be like god and if you disobey me i'll kill you and it's like
and this is good somehow you're corrupted by tisms fringy it was the tisms it's just it's
halo five men like i can't stand that game mantelheads it's still mad about season eight
ballers like i'm still mad about season four of game of thrones i'm still mad about timid genesis
i'm still yes i'm still mad about these things i'm still mad about about three can you guys think
of any oh yeah wait uh was that everybody's entry by the way i don't know if anyone else wanted to
say it on that topic they did also character assassinate the Daleks and although that's not
like one character wow that's interesting they racially profiled well the the whole thing is
that they are like biologically they cannot feel emotions other than like hatred and there's like
a fucking scene where there's like where they're laughing in the new one it's like no not for any
special reason you can hate laugh so there's like oh they've got there's literally the only
other time in like the entire 50 year run of the show that a Dalek has laughed it was
specifically to show that it wasn't it wasn't there was something wrong with it
but no that just happens now hate laughter is a wonderful thing jade you should embrace it
okay there you go i'm seeing i'm really sad about that season of that show if you can't
make a video i'm making it i would unironically watch all of it it's gonna be like my another
life video but longer and oh with more detail going longer man yeah i've been working on it for ages
uh rags follow sc one or two scene at all if so favorite player
oh starcraft no i i don't know anything about starcraft players i've played a single
players casually but i don't know anything about like players or e-sports for it
uh the autism orcness i don't know what video we've been covering at this point
um poor student but i've been watching since your dark souls two response smaller thank you
for all the tisms no problem tisms free of charge um mauler wolf theo fringy and j have
caught a deadly strain of the gay the gay will kill the infected within 69 hours unless they
are cured the only way to cure the infected is to have sexual intercourse with rags what do you do
no hobo oh man when you when you want to answer like why are we even in a style for rags probably
cry we're gonna do great detail free my friend it would be it would be uh it would be what's
it uncouth it would be it would be bad it's just safe yeah fringy is a victorian civil gentleman
he wouldn't he wouldn't spill such secrets right yep i'm glad to disappoint you i'm elated
and and no inside inside in your heart you're fucking just you're so man you wish you had the
courage to really say what you felt about my anus but you can't i am so tired right now
i mean rags if i sent you a message on like the status code say because you know that's that's
how i can message you yeah uh saying oh i've got a disease and unless i have sex with you
in 24 hours i'll die you'd believe me right you think that was true well you lied to me before
and ironically rags what if you told you that and you said i'm getting a flight
i need to know your address because you're the new person who could save me would you just be like
what the fuck um i would say there might be some people that i might believe that from
but who i was gonna say who would who would you believe i'm from i would i would assume they've
lost their mind before yeah i would assume they've lost their mind before assuming it's for real
yeah i mean someone it's i can't i can't i mean if you're wrong oh no i get a fuck
uh i look first person like how do you know that that's the case jay how do you know that
you'll be cured this way like who told you this yeah i'd be like i would definitely have i it's
not like i'd say oh yeah come on over and i'd twiddle my thumbs for you know my fingers like
twiddle my fingers put on your paws put on my paws but i would i would have many follow-up
questions good that's all we wanted to know for sure it's like your cum is the sweet nectar of
life rag it'll cure me yeah i could see you be like i know that's true but i don't see how
it translates to your health pretty fucking amazing um okay uh bad time damn time zones
haven't caught a show since projared imploded that really sucked huh anyway have some monies
also what does rag's milk taste like go relevant to what we were just talking about it's the nectar
of life apparently that's that's what it is think of it as ambrosia privileged information
what's privileged goggles you need to be wearing privileged goggles to know
you know afterwards you might feel like you needed goggles
um any movie with a rest button is bad tfa lost me what's a rest button
um no idea movie with a rest button
oh nothing a rest or rest a rest yeah like as if like a sleep button all right i thought you meant
oh okay uh no i still don't know yeah i don't know about that one uh rich evans was always right on
tfa he's right on tlj as well it's a mess with interesting ideas prequels are a mess with bad
ideas money for jay i don't think the prequels have bad ideas prequels are a mess with good ideas
yeah i would actually say the sequels are a mess with bad ideas yeah swap them one of the good
like if the idea is luke is a habit who's betrayed his people are saying it's he means a reset button
it's a typo of reset oh any movie with a reset button is bad okay okay yeah we cannot hear you
anna if you are talking so if i yeah i don't know if she was being quiet or not
oh shit it might might be broken i i'm sorry if we've been talking over you i thought i thought
you just did what a oh yeah i haven't heard you um yeah that sucks well oh um we are
according to my timer we are exactly three and a half minutes away from 24 hours rex
well let's let's actually start to go through if we can because i really am about um
don't feel obligated to give yourself like mental issues by staying up i'm not i don't have mental
issues no no i'm talking about like dehydration and sleep deprivation no i have i have access to
clean water and another beer and like snacks and food and things i'm not gonna like die here at the
desk you know hop down and go to yeah i would say go to sleep if you really really want to go to
sleep that's totally fine do it jump what is this computer desk is just on the edge of a cliff
well i don't don't mock me i don't have mental issues i am of sound mind
mostly all right let's uh uh yeah uh rich rich evans is uh the interesting one on tfa he was the
one where i think j and rich uh rich oh sorry j and mike wanted to like praise a lot of it rich was
like hmm hmm yeah that he references that in the tlj video he's like i was always
bad about it i hated it before the people did there's always meh there was a few select people
yes yes yes hello hooray um yes uh cinema robert does not vote once not twice but thrice
cinema robert he think he probably actually thinks he should be allowed to vote yes times
because he's just so fucking in the hell of a lot more than three times he doesn't think he should
be able to vote three times he just doesn't think anyone else should be able to go to say
no rags he's like he wants to vote once but he's the only person who votes
oh yes um yeah uh i guess we can go over a 30 second countdown now 25 almost there
20 we could be taking care of super chats i mean i want to do a special we made it to the 24 i'd
like to go from the 30 seconds good 24 hours pass every day that's not true yeah this is special
special yeah this is really oh yes four three two one and that's it blast off 24 hours of efap complete
wow this is good morning we get cake people in chat who are still posting like 15s and 10s
no cake isn't good for you i can't have cake all right vegan cake 15s and 10s
oh look at that
yeah we did it we did it but it doesn't end there i still got some stuff to read out
again nobody is obligated to stay you are welcome to do as you wish people it's absolutely fine i'm
just i'm gonna make sure i read all of these before i go to slumberland i am gonna jump here
thank you everyone thanks for congratulations thank you very much it's been fun to have you
sir and we shall see you in future for possibly responding to criticism of you yes yes yes jay
we have to get together and uh do an efap to about those videos i mean we could bring you both on for
efap i give you a good shot yeah hopefully hopefully his is back up on me at that point
we could do that one as well it was so funny i'm so sad you better save him while you can
yeah so yeah i'm gonna download him straight away
and Anna i want to hear about galaxy's age
uh the video will be edited sometime today and out maybe tomorrow oh very good and rags i hope
you get that wanking that's probably the sweetest thing if someone's ever said to me it was very
sweet but i will i might have to sleep on it though i might i i just i'll just i'll be
fucking out like a light and to my fellow australian yes good luck with uh finishing this up at some
stage oh yeah that'll be fun may the don't be with you i shall speak to you all soon and the
don't be with you sir the don't be with you sir bye bye what a goodman he is uh he's all right i
guess he's he's okay he is a okay all right he is doing it okay way that he did it yeah all right
so continuing on remember slave kids owners get money from rebels like i said man the slave trade
seemed to be thriving under the republic in canto bite i don't know what am i supposed to
what am i supposed to think of this don't think about the films that makes them bad it keeps them
off the streets um someone else like to join hello i can't i can't hello hello everyone
how do you do sir i'm doing well thank you for having me congratulations we did it we just
paused it weekend warrior hey is it the weekend over in your country yes it's 10 pm it's 10 pm on
a friday yep oh wow it's almost yeah it's a weekend for him he is a weekend warrior hello how
about that we've uh we've been right yep you tell by his voice is he is he aware of the looming
threat of goliath i'm not sure yeah excuse me what he's blissfully unaware door is locked
he's keeping a low profile he sees other people in the philippines doing these things he's like why
guys what's going on yeah well yeah what's happening is something happening i know there's
just a typhoon what is that it's not yeah sometimes it goes by the name typhoon that's
it's been no okay what the hell is happening live typhoon a large dog oh no hello oh it's
perpetual guest star rags hello rags it's not so much a perpetual it feels like it's perpetuity
is how long that i've been here i feel like this is some kind of a celestial prison that
i found myself in traps inside pretty neat huh escape yeah it's really cool it's really it's
really neat stuff if i stop making sense let me all right that's jay's job so we get to that
point yeah until we get to i don't i don't trust judge's ability to properly identify sense making
trust judge's ability no jay pretty sure wait hang on what jay's ability to judge
all right who more than who would you like to assign this this uh this job fringy
what's that sorry yeah he's not even paying attention so i don't know for now you know what
i'm gonna do i think it's we should who will watch the watchman i will all right watch the
watch rags you will judge when you no longer make sense i i think that would be a good idea
i can be a good judge of whether or not i make sense or not um okay so myself there next up
why does why does rose ring exist secret logo before tfa so the um the ring that she has a little
uh rebel they could sell it at disneyland galaxy edge for 98 dollars what's 98 dollars
eight dollars for that stupid ring that's why that ring exists but can you until you turn it
and this symbol disappears i don't know they haven't they better have that ability and then
her necklace her necklace the one that her sister has half of uh that 75 bucks per piece
so that is why those exist guys 75 per piece because you have to have both pieces right
so kylos peak disney
yeah that's your answer i don't even want to create like a
funny story or anything it's like yeah buddy it's itself
oh it's apparent it's funny on its own jesus if my significant other
bought me that shit i'd be like listen no no you kept receipts wait does this made you like
the last jedi you like last jedi no i like you like oh don't fall for it uh empire subverted us
but it didn't cuck i mean suck right snoke's death is a subversion to be sure but an unwelcome one
oh who prequel memes that's a prequel meme prequel memes are unbeatable let's be honest uh hello
greedo wait hey greedo disney said smoke was the most powerful force user ever disney told us this
i mean he smoked hello greedo was like whoa he doesn't know anything about star wars
he literally said like what gave you the impression that snoke was powerful and had lots
of resources like i don't know he's really his capital his shit his personal ship is two and
a quarter million people on it i mean who is so in the star wars lore canon what who is the most
powerful jedi that ever was anna do you know the answer to that because we won't i mean
revin revin i don't know tumblr yeah yeah i agree with you it would technically be anakin but as
far as like how strong he is with the force but it also comes down to knowledge so obviously
anakin didn't know as much about the force as yoda did so when you think about who's
shows the most signs of how powerful they are it's usually going to be a sith lord not a jedi
because jedi you know but i'm confused ray is very powerful with the force and she doesn't
know anything about it it's like the difference between having the ability to do something and
knowing how to use it so yeah it makes absolutely no sense oh ray yeah you can't even make the
argument of like she's a hammer without knowing where to hit it it's like no she hits it real well
yeah it no logic uh episode seven jj sets house on fire and leaves behind water bottles
episode eight r removes water bottles without using them episode nine js to put down his own
fire without bottles put out put out his own fire without bottles there's one way of looking at it
i would say that he pissed on the house that was on fire too ryan like probably a few other things
too yep uh the reason why co-told bees to minecraft they added bees to minecraft they did
uh bees these changes every day boys
the reason why co-told too had an amazing story is because avalon read the eu comics
jj and ryan didn't give a damn about eu i don't think anybody would dispute that
i wonder how much of this episode will consist of just reading super chats
well i think i started i want to say four hours ago oh damn no way holy shit yeah
and funnily enough i just read hour nine of 24
jim not even halfway nope read these faster read these with the conviction
that the other guy read the gay unicorn sex story but i want to make sure i get exactly what they
say like i've also i've been awake now for by like i said wids are getting harder to read
um why don't they just suck up the why don't they just suck up most of the sun and leave
the planets would just freeze over you kill your enemies sun regenerates planet is there's uh
if there are ships on those planets then you can leave before you would freeze to death
yeah which is a potential being killed doesn't kill immediately if you want to use that planet
for your own purposes um but it's pretty cold after that like the planet would have the technology
to survive on hawth yeah there's a visos video that can tell you how long you'd survive without
the sun it's like a week i think yeah isn't it the without the sun it just gets colder colder
colder colder like what is what is the stopping point um depends on the atmosphere if it has no
atmosphere presumably the lowest it could get would be pretty close to absolute zero
um also without the sun doesn't mess up with the gravity so what would happen to the planets if
they don't have a star to like rotate around um yeah they would the planet would start
the planet would be terrible that would ruin everything the sun the star is what gives them
the gravity because they're you know going around the sun so they're all orbiting around the star
yeah the idea would be that the this the the planet would keep spinning on its axis but the
orbit would change so gravity would be the same because things that want to move don't want to
stop moving so earth would keep spinning on its axis but it would shoot off in a different direction
the orbit would get pulled to the next closest star or the next eventually it would go just tangent
from where the sun disappeared like once it disappeared it would go off in a tangent you
know like just to clarify by the way sling and all of a sudden let go of the sling it would
keep rotating but it would shoot off in a direction just to clarify because i'm a dumb ass
for science but i thought that um the a planet's gravity comes from the fact that it's like the
mass and density like uh yes yes yes so does this what does the sun do to the gravity
the sun is what is attracting it maybe i'm messing up with my science terms
gravity find orbit messed up oh yeah the orbit yeah yeah yeah the planet will still have a
gravitational pull yeah like things yeah things will still stick to the planet but the planet
itself will no longer be influenced by the gravity of the sun which is what was keeping it in orbit
so it would just shoot off until it was eventually affected by something else which is i was going to
say which is probably pretty unlikely yeah that it would bump into anything essentially probably
forever it probably wouldn't happen it probably wouldn't happen it would just depends on your
time frame it would happen eventually not necessarily there are some probably expanding
faster than it honestly depends on how they destroy the star because it can turn into a black hole
and then we all know what happens to all the planets yes it doesn't do that though i don't
know i don't understand the science of this stupid movie i don't understand the stupid
size of the giant machine that swallows suns and shoots down solar system if you lose your son
anyway uh i'm telling you fellas this retroactively slapped together metanarrative stuff is the next
step in the gaslight campaign it's time to accept what we all know we need to start throwing these
people off rooftops rah with the rooftops again post-modernist soy boys film school speds
femoid execs people with weird hats all of them oh my people with weird hats absolutely belongs
on that list the top hats get thrown there's a couple people there's a couple we know the top
hats the top hats weird i don't know i need we need clarification gods moolah is slacking by
streaming for 24 hours yeah since we've been doing a 24 hour i imagine that every single
efap below 24 hours will now be considered a short efap this is almost a normal length
efap it's not quite there though what 24 hours yeah like 36 hours that's a normal length efap
what is it what is a long efap jay tell us as the manager uh a week
what are you saying that wouldn't i would actually well the way i'd have to set that
up is to have the constant stream going maybe through twitch i don't know if you could even
support that and then have it so that the invite is controlled like like by different people and
then like rotate sleeping a few mods on it yeah and then yeah it would just be a constant slew of
videos and guests that i might wake up to like not even recognizing the people who are there
and i'm like hello what are we doing today on you could do that you could make that happen
the public efap forum are they that's what it turns into is just a thing you could jump into
where there's a space an efap evolution over time people don't stand in its way evolution
but just just the constant efap channel constant efap 24 7 very fast to study too yeah we do week
on week off week on week off and then two weeks on one week off and then keeps going then it's
just like year on europe no not europe you're on week off you're on week off until it's just
constant uh wouldn't the first order kill themselves as well as every time they charge
up the star killer base how do they move around a galaxy to a different star system before they
freeze to death without having a sun stupid jj um they probably have heaters on their planet
the planet looks really cold it's like icy and snowy on the outside but what about the inside
well there was vegetation too so it must have been seasonal because there were true true uh so
the planet the star killer base is there's like treason shit on it which means it must have
seasons yeah yeah yeah i mean every planet has seasons no they don't well yeah but sometimes
they have seasons also in colder times yeah but if it's if the difference is super freezing
and then slightly less super freezing then it's technically a season but not in a real sense
but this is like we're talking yeah like not the colloquial sense that we would use the term seasons
as we understand them but if you have like star killer base and there's trees and stuff that means
vegetation can grow like at some point during the year there's a time where plants can you know thrive
and live and things like that so
so it must be in some sort of a habitational zone of a like a planet or sorry of its own
star or something or maybe well do you think it generates its own like external heat well no
fucking clue dude no no clue yeah do you think it's with more cores generate heat you think that
thought of this yeah but i wonder if that would translate to being able to sustain like
no in terms of like plants because the plants would need some kind of like an external source
in terms to like photosynthesize they can sustain life uh under like and the sea from
thermal vents and that's it yeah but i think i think and i think it's probably safe to
assume that they took a planet that was reasonably habitable that already existed and then you know
modified the planet so that's probably what they did they probably chose specifically this planet
that has the range of all of these planets within it and that's probably what they did
you know like slowly hollowed it out and replaced it all with like Korean stuff and the scale doesn't
make sense because they saw the beams from their weird temple planet that when they looked up in
the sky so you're just like what the fuck is even happening here it's going to be in
part three but fucking i just want to it's so uh uh JJ runs like acknowledge that he's like
look it doesn't have to fucking make sense fuck off like it's just it stalls like oh man
and the funny thing is if you go on the wiki i think i'm going to talk about this in my video
as well the wiki actually tries to explain it it's like the beams are made of special light that
can travel uh like over and through atmospheres over distant major distances that it shouldn't
normally be able to or something like that the wiki is like it makes sense how far is light
supposed to travel i don't fucking know i'd have to read all of it again it travels infinitely
until yeah like most things in space until it hits something until it gets fucked with it like i said
check the people check the wiki it's i remember reading it said something like it was some kind
of special light that does something to allow it to be viewed in ways that it wouldn't be able to
normally it's red death light special light don't let it touch you don't just level your
acaeon beams of space magic understand oh no and now the gravitines um alderaan had a population
of a couple billion not including those were off world at the time yeah i asked um whether or not
tarkin or holdo had the higher kill count and it does go to tarkin he outclassed it by a significant
amount if it he's like two billion also killed a bunch of people in the eu as well so alderaan wasn't
his first oh well i guess i'm just going for movies anymore is it no two billion out of 400
people don't you just love that how disney like yeah fuck all this shit disney fucking
fano snapped the eu like yeah get the fuck out of here i mean that was everything not just in the
galaxy but in i guess the cosmos so we're talking trillions upon trillions like impossible to
calculate kind of some numbers that's the thing other universes parallel universes they didn't
just go oh that's an alternative cannon this is like our cannon they went no that's not cannon
our our stuff is the important stuff yeah could they go just as a multiverse thing right at least
yeah at least have the fucking like decency to say oh no this is just an alternative timeline this
doesn't take place in the same one as timeline e seven 26 one like fuck it here's here's there
is all this stuff that people really like to hell with that here's rose tico if oh did we deserve
that did we deserve stupid droid and solo did we deserve these things uh please watch mic zero
here on efap don't know who that is i'm god all right it's anna's ex has no no he is uh
how to describe him not the big day do you think that movie bot will give you a headache
this guy gives me a headache because he talks so slowly
and everything he says is complete nonsense so he might be a good oil already photo apparently
oh oh i've been told to talk about the channel oh that's where i know this guy from people have
recommended that i have these crazy theories and then they all those uh medias write articles on him
and then they're like here's the new star wars news and he has absolutely no evidence for it at all
oh he's that kind of guy huh well he's zero with an h yes jeremy how we're still up
jeremy i'm still up so yeah the videos are close to flight so it has been live
is it still 2019 oh wait bringy's gonna oh shit you're going back to sleep
yeah i got i got things on tomorrow no i know it's just this is the second time you've
gone to sleep with me here
sleep well free we'll catch you around again
i i'm gonna be too tired to dream that's so sad i think the dreams just get thicker oh
dreams get more intense than what i do when you go to sleep dummy show and my experience
so i'll dream about camping nice okay you can no one's stopping you i'm saying you're not allowed
to dream about camp because you said dreams get more intense when oh intense oh that's beautiful
oh how does he do it the hits they just fucking keep every song to hit every hits a smack
coming uh they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they
don't stop coming time to stop coming and no rags is the judge of what rags no longer makes sense
remember i know what did i say that makes sense fair enough that's why i said that rags is the
judge of it yeah yeah sorry i've been i've been just collecting out looking at my twitter
notifications getting things in place darth ren and the rise of skywalker huge leaks revealed
star wars episode nine it's like i wish i could reveal my huge leak jeremy hello there
oh jeremy's here oh no should i pretend i'm tired since i slept all night or i mean just
should i go for it it's been a long night just sleeping and enjoying you know rest no how are
you rags privy yet more energy than i uh i figured you would i am a bundle of energy i'm like a bunch
of electrons bouncing around where am i going to be oh it doesn't matter because by the time you
think you know i'll be somewhere else it's impossible it's a fool's errand it's popping
in and out of existence am i even there fucking i don't know i'm really more of a cloud than anything
else i'm a hazy cloud of electrons that's me and this show is like my proton congratulations on
24 plus hours and a year i i appreciate you allowing me to be part of it absolutely generally
too i'm i have a 20 25 and a half hours i've still got jeremy plenty of energy left
jeremy jeremy jeremy jeremy jeremy do you have your galaxy's edge video coming i'm interested
to watch it at home and started streaming with these guys i i missed the first part what did you
worry i'll i'll get this i know all about it i got insider info she's editing it it'll probably
be out sometime tomorrow i'm interested to hear her thoughts so it'll be good yeah i'm actually
curious about this theme park as well are there a lot of into it it's going to get chopped
is it true that there's no people there right now or are there any hot it was so empty
come on they're working rip in uniform right out yeah it's a total disaster you shouldn't
have like you know every little bit helps of what
i like how earlier anna was like read super chats faster and then you guys got into like a 20 minute
discussion about space typical efap this might be the first perpetual efap because by the time i
get through all the super chats there might be a whole bundle of new ones about the things we were
talking about it's like i gotta speed this up you want to know how to bundle it's like earlier
when i joined i was like hey mauler i've got 20 minutes so just give me a link and i stayed on for
two damn hours yeah and we managed to cover one minute of this video did you guys ever finish it
or did you finally we did we did we managed to push through hello greedo struggles to make what
you could call videos oh man good stuff southpaw says hi anna hey all right let's kick on congrats
on 50 we need to bring on internet historian if he's game he'll be welcomed whilst on a list
pretty much how it'll probably go um someone should tell remarkable republican that killing
two billion people is probably a good cause to resist just saying i've i've heard he wants to
colonize mars oh yeah he has a lot of interest yeah but is that a is that a controversial thing
to say that we should colonize mars no no no i don't think it's about it's how he wants to
colonize yeah it's the method is he believes that to colonize mars we need to strictly enforce
monogamy and heterosexuality in the colony is this this is a man that you should watch a video
called why the ot sucks uh with the high council with with anacosting you guys should explore that
one that's remarkable republican explaining to you why the ot is terrible and the prequels are
better by the way that's a part of the argument excuse me you'd love it trying to stay lucid while
watching it is something of a challenge he's certainly remarkable um and if you've got extra
time afterwards watch his take on how to colonize mars that's pretty special too
thank you special guy watch later you're um if i remember the last time you were here weekend
warrior sometimes your microphone goes all tismine you have to do something is it like pull it out
and put it in or whatever because it's like is it happening again yeah oh no wait pretty shiva
is it working i mean i could we could hear you you i can't remember how you you do something
you could do to solve it right like i can't remember if it was like yeah i remember leaving
and then joining oh yeah i mean if you want to go ahead and try it because you are currently
making vietnamese's okay unplug it you plug it through something you're closest to the server
so i expected better of you how about now guys that affect it works so much better it's funny
because i remember when he came on it would it would like gradually start picking up those noises
and until you reach a point we go no you gotta go you gotta go we do have to we do have to get
through the super chats yes we're gonna have to we gotta get kylo destroys hangar where are the
transports well much like how they have a backup bridge they have a backup hanger in which
everything else is into yeah it's a pretty big rat is the transports it's in the name
uh also ea games challenge everything smoke just wanted a ship that if you throw it it would come
back what is that referring to a boomerang ship give it one second somebody said in the chat
this dude called vader a rip off of robocop i was gonna i was gonna let you guys experience
that for yourselves but yes correct he does say that yes robocop was 88 89 i know you said
oh my bad to get we're about to get sleep deprived anorant so like 10 years
we're gonna get this please deprived anorant this could be great
yeah so he says doth vader is a bad rip off of robocop
but why but why indeed it doesn't justify that in any way what is his point
it's it's helping improve trilogy sucks yeah it's helping prove the ot sucks
and the and the prequels are great he got you there guys ironically i would recommend can't
figure it out we had so much fun watching that video oh my god we were laughing our asses up
that's efab the 48 48 i think um it's the second half of 48 so if you want if you want to go see
what he said oh man that is hilarious jesus christ um how is the moot going on carit mademoiselle
does that mean anything to anyone i don't know what that means mademoiselle so it's clearly
directed to me but i don't understand exactly what the rest of the words mean so i'm gonna
nod my head and say yes what is the what is the microphone what you're fucking opening some kind
of maz bar some shit oh i was opening crackers just gotta mute the microphone buddy what is what
is the title of this video with this guy and shitting on the ot it's called why is it the
ot sucks or why the ot sucks i think it's the ot sucks star wars you'll find it i can link you
if you don't i know i got it oh i typed it the ot sucks that efap shows up no no trying to find
the other thing straw man oh yeah so the video is called the star wars original trilogy sucks
it's a fascinating film uh art to say the least at mauler the supremacy is a mobile shipyard
everything the force uh first order has was built there its support fleet was at least 30 star
destroyers strong so everything that they as was built there so either they're saying that's their
like base of operations was the supremacy that the first comment on this video is thanks mauler
now i want to die efap explores you to new horizons i don't know what else um why would you
have why did you have the fucking the base of operations the first order chasing the ship with
400 enemies on it it's like maybe just said the star destroyers don't need anything other than
tie fighters anyway tlj is a strange movie um or why just not overtake the little ship you know
a lot of questions about that whole thing like if it's just going on a straight line why don't you
just predict where it's going and shoot a cannon towards that direction right it's like broke tlj
is tlj is bad because it's an illogical mess woke tlj's garbage because ryan is an effing
bij interesting spelling what this spoke tlj is an abortion because it was made in hollywood
and disney by kid kid diddle yids who need to be thrown from rough tops okay rah you're an
interesting super chatter you can't take it away from you uh meant to make this point earlier if
they cared about pilots lives they would have been using tie fighters they wouldn't be using
tie fighters uh which are piece of shit and cheaply made i mean i don't i don't know if
high fighters are cheaply made or whatever but they the idea that they care about their
pilots is bullshit i don't believe for a second that snoke cares whether or not you know unit
one five six seven eight was killed in battle when chasing the raddest i didn't see a scene
where hux was crying over the the defeated units um anyone going to see ryan johnson's next film
we didn't see the scene where luke cried over han so we can conclude he didn't care about han yes
as far as ryan johnson's next movie did you just brought up i think it's going to be very
interesting if knives out flops i i think it's going to be interesting if we get an announcement
shortly after that he won't be doing his trilogy much how they uh responded to um
um oh what was that movie he he made that that crashed and burned and then shortly after
uh that's when he was quote unquote fired no no not lube i was i mean i'm pretty much
expecting it to go full full steam ahead that he's gonna get his his first film in the trilogy and
it's gonna do badly and then we don't know what's gonna happen next i still don't think it's gonna
happen but i mean i might i still i just can't see how again this is i say i don't see how they
could be that dumb but there's a lot of evidence to support that they hired him in the first place
i don't know they approved that fucking scripts yes they made weird decisions um oh see rah
bringing him with the mean super chats i hope ryan dies at the premiere of his next film oh no doubt
damn hi hefap crew hi ragu hello ben shapiro efap when oh any moment now
just waiting for him to jump on oh i can't imagine what kind of result that would bring
to efap's reputations like we got it we got ben shapiro i was like what does that mean i don't know
we can talk about star wars solar houses to who ben
echo man uh where is the drone armies on either side drone armies i guess unmanned war vehicles
i mean i guess you could say that the rebels have like little to no resources for reasons um
or resistance whatever yeah i guess i mean we could talk about how the first order are not making
certain decisions like yeah kind of like the other billion decisions they could have made to
increase their odds of winning but you know they just don't most of the time the higher
ups will give mission objectives that are concrete goals and then give constraints
this subordinates are given a lot of freedom of how to compete those objectives
i don't know if that was in relation just talking about sort of like the hierarchy and the first
order and stuff so i just found out that a huge chunk of my super chats goes to susan and him mary
band of i can't keep saying that especially with on youtube about susan himself how do i give you
money without that happening um i guess stream labs i'm pretty sure is direct the link in in the
description if you don't want to do it through super chats and for those wondering if i'm reading
those i'm gonna get to them as well they're like a an alternative way oh there's only like six of
those ones so in fact i could probably do them right now let's have a look see
where are you on your super chats like how far behind are you right now do you know
oh you know i'm about to yeah i was gonna say we're nearly at 10 hours out of 24
look no we just keep coming there like four in the last minute just testing if stream
lives donations make it to youtube also when you want to watch something to relax look up
wood deck on youtube that's one of the stream labs ones and i'll go through them now
it's amazing that you can still find mistakes in the last jedi it's just so bad that even after
all this time we didn't find everything wrong with it i don't think it's possible like the
more you dig the more you find uh i want that's what i'm so i'm so happy major lee brought up the
fact that i said that in my video where i said i don't think we still understand how bad the last
jedi is and i forgot i said that so thank you major lee you did one good thing right in your
video do you like the part of this video reese because this film is so fucking underrated it's
like it's not yeah we all lost it during that oh man imagine being major lee man
imagine liking the last jedi in general it's a lot of those people i don't know
it's like for all the defense you can say about it it's like really divided people
all right the biggest way i understand like that i could understand someone liking the last jedi
is if they're more casual just like you know they start a few times a couple times they're
like yeah they're like all that uh name beats watching jeremy watching videos of people trash
and jeremy thank you i appreciate that there's a lot of those out there it's wood eck wood eck
wood ech guessing it's youtube channel to chill out with uh i once had a nightmare i was being
chased by an evil nun from the conjuring too i eventually got really angry and screamed deus
before superman punching that cunt in the throat pale bitch all right sounds like a movie worth
watching uh wait luke cut himself off from the force right or at least up until the point he
projects himself into not hoth but didn't he use the force before that to grab the stick to defend
himself from ray i'm confuzzled by this force fuckery i suppose so there's a scene before he
uses the force to do that where he's like he tries to contact layer right i think that's the
film trying to say that's the first time he's reconnecting with the force i don't know
i doubt it it was such a big part of his day-to-day life that he probably still uses it he probably
just doesn't meditate the way the jedi are supposed to let's the way they try and make an excuse for
why he was unaware of everything is that he's cut off from the force we can't sense any of it it
doesn't matter if he's not he can't cut himself off from the force he is a jedi the force is part
of him he is force sensitive so even though he wasn't trying to tap into that in empire strikes
back he was still able to feel han and leah and chewy in pain from the other side of the freaking
galaxy and that's just them in pain that's not them dying so that whole excuse that he cut himself
off that's absolutely impossible and it's complete bullshit and only somebody that doesn't know
anything about star wars would use that excuse fair enough um hilo gets vader saber teams up
with ray to fight papa palpatine both get shit stomped grandpappy vader possessed crawling in
my skid red beats palps prophecy re fulfilled what the fuck is this tismree love you guys i listen
to you every day a week a good chance that could be the case we'll have to see how episode nine goes
uh i watched your series on h bomber guy stuff and ds2 i'd call that a fast roast but it felt
more like 10 hours slow been that's because that's what it was uh oh my god what is that meme it
killed it kills rags breathe rags breathe yeah that was the ocean man one and now that feels like
it was a whole day ago uh have some money remember to spend it unwisely congrats for surviving 24
hours to all the efappers and j why and j um i've been watching you about a year now and thanks for
changing my view on art and inspiring me to make my own content slice and dice geode man imagine
imagine what movie circle joke would how will they react if they heard like oh thanks for
changing my view on art well they'd be they'd be very upset with us like stop poisoning the minds
of these people i don't know if those guys have stopped hating on me recently or not i haven't
gotten any screenshots lately it was like a month it's funny you should mention that because i
checked them earlier i guess yesterday and though you were on the front god damn i guess people
finally were like we're just gonna stop sitting in screenshots well this shit because that for
about a month it was like every day i was getting screenshots of them just just trashing me i was
like my god these people hate me so it's good to know i'm still in their thoughts so bounce back
between me and you for now it'll take them way like they'll have plenty of content to work with
uh it's uh and it's uh movie circle jerk uh it's a big subreddit um they just despise mauler and me
and a lot of us in the fandom minutes they really hate efap too here it is it's right at the front
of stuff nice i'll have to go in there i'll have to go in there and check them i never get on reddit
i got on reddit like three weeks ago because somebody said there was um i had a video trending
or something on there so i just opened the app for whatever reason and the first thing i see
is somebody just absolutely just killing me just saying the worst things i was like this is why i
never get on reddit like i don't even know what what this reddit is and they're just trashing me
so well the first post on their page is zach snyder cutting through sony and marvel like he's
their savior if any idiot thinks that that is going to happen like really their whole thing
yeah the whole thing is to like rile you up and make fun of things like if you in any way respond
to anything about them they consider it a victory we still fuck with them but like
yeah they're they're a weird group it's like they want to provoke is the idea i'm just sleeping but
i'm not sleeping i'm here rags they went after me for a while they had like uh a little because
they found a stream that i'd done um and ripped into it like and like all of the shit they said
about it was like just wrong because like i guess they were just going off the title and the length
yeah uh so they they ripped into that and then i was like hey that's not true and i tweeted about
it and then because i'm like because i had the audacity to point out the stuff they were saying
was wrong uh they made fun of me for like a week oh my god it was a really fun time
the pretty hardcore origin story of that star wars girl
what what they were an origin story on me okay there was honestly there were weird folk over there
uh weird folk like i said you're about to go down a rabbit hole now oh yeah have fun
yeah i mean i'm getting good give me shit from me making the video on the on the amazon rainforest
virus to read how they describe the cost of the fat oh no oh i mean you could say the the quick
thing yeah i'm sure jeremy will find that funny hey where is it let me find it uh almost recent
yeah the one the one the week a second month ago yeah oh here it is
fuck it i really think those twisted shells of men could not be saved or redeemed in any fashion
there's no way they'll stop acting the way they do no matter how many times reality fucks up in
the ass they're an insult to film criticism they're an insult to the star wars fandom they're an
insult to the objectivity versus subjectivity debate they're an insult to youtube they're an
insult to the human race wow and you guys hang out with us what does that say about you oh my god
oh man so good i love it i love it we did that i guess i guess it got really i guess they hate
they hated on me prior to me coming on efap and then when i did then that really took it to the
next level so i would have to thank the toxic brood for that oh yeah there was oh yeah that
must have set them off they hate efap there's there was comment you remember jay at one point
there was some comments like oh man i like jay no he's on efav oh no he's oh yeah that was really
fun they feel that jay was infected and converted the the first time i remember i made a video on
a reddit on that subreddit the first time someone some screenshot us about i don't know um two
months three months ago i think anymore not if you're on efap one of them said that they liked
my rippling shirt and my paintings what's up veto um yeah so i'm gonna gonna keep all reading uh
yesterday monday no it's all good about it because you we have the exact same thing it's
just like you never know what exactly to slide them back into talking about superchats again
so it's like yeah i'll just jump back in uh yesterday monday matt was asked to come to
efap and he said he'd never heard of it fair enough you're right down here right uh yeah i
doubt that one i don't believe that for a second i've never heard of monday matt ooh got him i'm
just gonna say everyone's fucking heard of monday matt not for good reasons though uh no matt no
uh seeing the seeing that owl won superchat yesterday and then hearing it today was so
beautiful this is for jay because fuck him this is for jay because fucking well jay hidden all right
noted uh you usually get medieval strategy related stuff wrong in your unbridled game of
throne rages you could could you therefore read some contemporary manuals like stratig
stratic gig con tigo the board game and preceptor milli military etc before you make more
objective things about how war is conducted i mean what did i say it was wrong in my video
do you do you think it's normal to put uh catapults in front of your cavalry
outside of the fucking castle walls i don't think i said anything that controversial that video
people would have agreed with um and i'm pretty sure shad said he watched my video and said that
it was it was good shit he's he's he's absolutely a litmus test for trying to get something that
right i'm not a military or medieval military expert whatsoever but it was some basic ass
shit like most people know you shouldn't be putting your trebuchets and catapults
in front of your whole army that's a weird fucking choice um and your army can hide behind them
did they get like destroyed first or something sorry is there a plot reason that they were in
that position or is it just um irrelevant to anything they're just there they get fired twice
each i think and then they're stopped and then they just get obliterated oh cool and the irony
is that they send their cavalry in alone first while firing the catapults then they have to stop
the catapults because they might hit the cavalry the cavalry get obliterated and then the the ground
forces from the enemy just destroy the catapults it's the most bizarre use of your forces ever um
mola how many milliliters of blood should be greeted from one's anus before consulting your
local gp also high rags hello enjoy your bubble i'm gonna go with just any amount
it's enough to be considered to get a checkup yeah generally just just general rule of thumb
if blood is leaving you something's not quite right especially if it's out to your anus yes yes
uh did rags just use kilometers that's unpatriotic you massive
did i use kilometers i think when you were describing the length of something you you may
have done that i can't remember i was reading i was reading it from wiki yeah i was i was reading
it from the wiki and the wiki seven kilometers kilometers kilometers kilometers
uh hashtag roast Greedo hashtag Han shot fist fair enough um i'm yet to hear anyone mention
the facts that Carrie Fisher was highly respected script doctor in her day is that true i didn't
know that i mean it's you mean a script nurse i've heard that yeah i assume with maybe dialogue or
just a couple of tweaks again i've not actually that's the first time i've heard of that
um hey don't read into things the movie stated outright hey let me tell you how it's all a big
meta narrative this guy's legs should be turned into powder why so threatening rah whatever you
hear like threats on people it's probably rah uh luke was sent to the pit for 30 years also he's old
that's how to explain everything about luke he's old
that's how to explain everything about luke he's old
the hello Greedo portion of your super chats i think yeah i think that's where we're at here
holy shit all right you are way back hey why why is luke so different now stop asking questions
hey why all my heroes gay now stop asking questions hey why are all these israeli
agents dancing on this rooftop what are you talking about i'm asking questions what is that
that is raw good yes have you guys ever considered having tldr on yes he will be uh he possibly will
guest i have no problem with that yeah that doesn't sound like a very efap name that's true
actually yeah well i mean i can't read and i'm on efap yeah but too long didn't read
hmm
jj is like but the too long part i don't say we're not we're not too long
yeah so someone who thinks it too long we're the yeah we're the right amount of long and i'm sure
you'd agree okay we are the summarized version at 25 hours uh hour 10 of 24 yay we've almost
arguably reached a halfway point to a degree well rags i don't want to brag
shut up well rags i don't mean to brag but i'm mighty proud of that ragged old flag
i all right i guess that was the the the flag the hella greedo was swinging
yeah is he does it your flag or is it his i don't understand god forbid we care am i right
yeah that's about the whole what's important what an arsehole that i am that's when i joined
that was a long time ago a galaxy far far away uh this is for rags i'm newly subscribed to you
i love the new video it's my favorite is the bully hunters oh my favorite is the bully hunters one
will we get a gaming stream soon i really liked your resneville 4 1
i've been thinking about it it would be kind of cool to get it find a game like that and just kind
of play it and chat with chat important question rags where does resident evil for rank on your
best resident evil games it's at the top it is okay trying to make sure because that is a pretty
obvious yeah i'm glad rags i just answered the question correctly like guy like i've only played
four five uh seven and uh the remake a little bit resident evil 2 remake and they've been
they've been a real mixed bag like four is like masterpiece kind of levels it is an absolute
masterpiece seven is good for the first three hours or so and then it sharply nose dives into
uh five is a fun game with your friend uh and res evil two all right it didn't grab me
for me it all fell apart after four um and i played resident evil from the beginning i still
love the first one uh it's dated as hell so if you've never played the first one you're gonna
not like it i don't think um but after four they all took a nose dive for me um i see i see cry
more is in the chat and veto uh the i don't not like trying to cycle out or even replace guests
at this point i think i might just if people drop off i'll just try and lower down the guests so
we'll have more of a chance of being able to get through superchas faster i guess that makes well
sense down we bring veto in here with his opinions this just will never end with his crazy ass so
and i did say uh i will try and get you to guest cry more at some point mr sausage doom man we'll
have you for a full episode to maybe talk about doom and and other video games of some kind uh
we'll saw it out at some point one day more you should do an april fools efap where it's
just three different avatars representing you at different points in time dr who style
why is the chat full of kick jay
what i left for i left for a couple minutes to go and get a drink and i come back to kick jay
what did i do we're eating jay stop stop stop frustrating the chat can you please you're
upsetting them kick new jay jay could you please apologize to the chat they keep the lights on
um uh dude these people defend mother dismembering disbouling decapitating
is this referring to game of thrones maybe people
governor pou i don't defend defending tlj is nothing compared to all of those things
yes i agree what are those things a reference to who was that raw that was raw again talk about
the fact that that explains late runner 2049 is the only good film made in ages and people
who disagree should be flung off a neon la rooftop well i'm one of the people who disagrees with that
controversial take i liked it i haven't seen it i don't have good films made other than that though
well absolutely yeah it's the only one it's the only one uh what would you do if you bought
greenland i guess i'd be the president i would make greenland great again i'd make green green
again or as uh or as uh you can shorten that and say yeah yes yes so again this is just more evidence
of how far behind we are so when we were covering hella greedo people went to a stream and um
apparently he was just saying stuff and one of the superstars said apparently he said toxic brood
cool so wait so he was streaming during yeah oh that's beautiful we did we did leave him an
offer to an invite i think some people said like you you showed some interest but i guess
i just didn't work out um let's discuss the healing properties of rhino milk uh infinite
cannot be quantified uh do one of jack singh's mostly water yeah that's true uh do one of jack
saint's videos next we we we already got through seven videos in total so um we couldn't even get
through like a fifth of the rogues gallery that we remember and love from efaps history
off my ass off what the fuck is a massive that's from hello greedo stream as well
uh playing stellaris my mega corporation empire moth people immigrated to a human colony new
jerusalem the prophet flows like wine shalom humans that's a good game i'll praise the lamp
uh gonna do all super chats now happy 50th hi rags hello maula can we hear you talk in your
natural dialect for a bit you mentioned it once and i have it i have curiosity uh so
my original accent is more like this so like this is a proper Welsh accent and if you're gonna like
force it up it's gonna start to basically blend a lot of words together and you start talking
really fast and people have no fucking clue what you're talking about like i can start talking to
people like this in Wales is is is bloody easy because everyone knows what you're fucking saying
like we had a taxi driver to talk like this and you're just like what the fuck you say like
nobody's gonna fucking know what you're talking about it doesn't really matter because everyone
talks like this anyway so you just go to like for example you take the taxi to the hospital
and you're just like oh uh you know what what's the sports like or what you're interested in these
days and people just be like what are you saying but you understand it when you're from Wales you
can you know peel through all the different words i'm like i got us like the first time you see an
uncut penis but then you slow it down and you start to enunciate and then you correct all
the things in the voice to prevent people from being able to understand you and then you're a
youtuber yay when you go to the grocery store do they think you sound weird now i mean that's
not necessarily how i originally sounded or anything but that is the Welsh accent
go in full tism i'm saying like now with the way that you talk like what happens when you go to
like the grocery store do they think you're like from out of town they've guessed i'm American
several times and i'm like i don't pronounce words American and they're like he doesn't sound
Welsh though oh the American
Wales people say things but only pretend to understand
no seriously i had a taxi driver the other day and i was listening to him talking i was like holy
fuck i want to record this and show rags just to be like what the fuck is he saying i can translate
don't worry mauler i can understand your native tongue
excellent it's it's English as in like English ish not really that
don't don't bother trying to understand Welsh it's it's a tidy country you won't it won't be
a useful ability for you further than almost like a a party trick please don't specialize in
Welsh can you say the name of that town no well well i can pronounce it correctly but i i don't
know it off my heart yeah um shad grats on your collab with Brandon Sanderson yeah and he did he
who knows what's to come with that he sounded very excited for the not only the present but future so
cool stuff uh just got off a four hour study marathon dropping my support before i collapse
in my bed happy anniversary love all of your content thank you very much
non-shilling what youtubers do you guys enjoy that make entertaining or informative content
any trustworthy game reviewers you guys have found retro hoy would be like my number one go
check out his stuff he's got a really great backlog but he doesn't upload that often
uh what about you guys any suggestions
you sure yeah reviewers game reviewers that are trustworthy
i don't really watch game reviewers i mean the only channel i'll really keep up with is game
explain because i'm a big nintendo guy um but i don't have time for video games is a problem
oh god there's the best of the worst two hours ago oh god uh yeah red letter media is one of my
favorite channels ever um i like sean woods he does um like mouse traps and stuff and for some
reason i find this interesting um okay i mean gaming was sort of the question gaming hey i will
say though okay we do have gaming content i do have a gaming reviewer coming to geeks and gamers
very soon so there's you there's you there there's you and uh an official uh good gaming stuff
i don't i don't watch gaming stuff all that much though uh sometimes uh heal verse baby
face i like him i'll watch him psa sitch not well no it's not really gaming um mandalor
hello yeah we're hitting mandalor sorry i i think my mic's dying again oh i watch uh
summoning salt hmm sometimes he does like videos about speed running and histories of speed running
which i find interesting how speed runners find all the things that they find out and
now the tricks and tips and strategies and things they're kind of kind of interesting
yeah downward thrust guys yeah of course downward thrusts yeah absolutely recommend
instant sub oh yeah super bunny hop that's another strong channel to go for uh nah the
knives endurance ran out and it broke that's in reference to the tlj big one shot fight that's
one shot and has horrible choreography uh to make this movie five thousand five hundred times better
ray and kylo turn and see the dawn has just killed snoke hail the dawn i mean you'd be more believable
um can we play pathfinder 2 instead i can give you the guys the pdf of the rule book
play pathfinder 2 instead of what okay what was i don't know what the suggestion was um
in the tlj novel i believe the guard's armor causes a numbing sensation when ray hits them
oh well thank goodness the novel could explain that because the last thing we needed was for the
armor to be arbitrarily able to block a lightsaber than sometimes not
it gives them a numbing sensation if you guys did not know
do you think they can um they can have to do with giving
sorry what does a numbing sensation have to do with getting hit by a lightsaber
uh because of their armor uh i guess uh um uh they can't move i don't know it totally makes sense
the legs go floppy a lightsaber would cut through the armor no because no it's space armor it's
different makes you go numb that's almost like just a surreal honestly that's actually pretty
much what they're doing in the video games now so yeah lightsaber's a baseball bat anymore yeah
yeah he doesn't dismember you anymore so pretty much they just they're they're like uh
uh they just yeah baseball bats of years before nobody figured out this type of armor and all of
a sudden disney bought it and now they have magical armor that lightsaber people who work
at disney are very smart they have their top men on the job then why is their theme park failing
they're top men all of his employees that star wars is losing the money look if i want to survive
a lightsaber attack i'll go to disney if i need to open a theme park that makes money
maybe not disney all right we can't be the best at everything
yes we can yeah we can believe yeah not me basically lightsabers are stun guns
in the in the video games now they're just stun guns they just they just tickle
the super soakers that's like top man because he's a powerbomb fuck yeah
but bb bb8 talk about droid right because that's fun i don't think does bb8 talk about
droid rights it was just the crazy other droids yeah uh the interest seven
but it just says bb8 so i mean either way uh the interesting republican
probably doesn't like the sequel trilogy because fin is too racially ambiguous racially ambiguous
how is how the fuck is blacker in the ace of spades what the fuck you talking about
then the second comment is ray rhymes with gay
i mean it is the the the the remarkable republican these could very well be
reasons that he would bring up i don't know uh can we just agree that ray seems why too
pissed in tlj she found luke and she survives a visit with the emperor with a little scratch
lost movie stuff uh i mean it does seem very finale style and in the end of that
toward the end of that movie but they don't it's it's it's the it's the forex third film
sort of film but this is why the the the the final movie in that trilogy is gonna be so
interesting because it's like how do you recover and we're gonna find out i can't wait can't wait
burrito is a jaguar fan lol jag suck
but i mean anything aren't jaguar is like like really big cats i think he's referring to a
sports ball team but in grito's face that i have a former jacksonville jaguar's football player
on my team now that's gonna i'm i think i'm gonna do his pass wow he wasn't even good enough to be
on the jacksonville jaguars because he was like seven years he was there because he was terrible
at sports ball he would he had he is golfer right rags doesn't have a lot of sleep
for me so i've had plenty of sleep i'm fucking plenty of sleep all right he's had three beers
it sounds like rags on point
17 inches tall at the shoulder i'm not a small child okay does golf have to do with it though
so if you if every golf course has like a hole right and if you get a hole in one on the specific
core course you get like a Mercedes Benz or b&w or something yeah yeah yeah those are confusing
this is getting far more confusing than i thought it would be all the tournaments have one of those
don't act like this isn't something you're aware of i'm trying to i'm trying to relate it back to
jacksonville jaguars player on my team yeah he's he golfs because that's what that's that's what
football players too when they're retired they play golf because it's not it's it's both it's
sort of at the semi-athletic but it also isn't strenuous and he's probably fucked up from playing
in the NFL and he hasn't been brain hemorrhage or something we're breaking we're we're going full
hillary clinton we're breaking down barriers we're we're breaking in the glass ceiling players
are now joining geeks and gamers now no there's no barrier i mean rags are you okay yeah i'm fine
what what barriers are there i didn't break any barriers exactly exactly what barriers are there
not certainly not artificial ones of blockage nice
the whole time mother's like can i just read super chat shut the fuck up
okay man rags is free to do and stay as he wishes as he stated a few hours back he is the judge of
when he is making sense rags you still making sense i said nothing i have said does not make
sense there you go correct there you go and i i would challenge you to find something that doesn't
that i have said recently recently in one of your tfa videos molar i think you said bba gives fin
a thumbs up i always thought he was flipping fin off why i would that would be pretty funny
uh fin should be more like leon yeah fin should be more like leon the professional now
that would have been interesting yeah what a great movie oh that's a great movie
you should it's great oh it's great yes we all
it's better oh my goodness um ray is both an audience insert and wish fulfillment mary sue
because lucasfilm wishes the star wars audience was mostly female audience insert and wish
fulfillment mary sue i think there's arguments to be made for those i just um i'm trying to pass it
out in my head a little bit is it the story group like all women the story division thing that i
honestly don't think it still exists the story group we haven't heard anything from them and
over a year it seems like but what about their representation
oh yeah what happened you're you're dead what can you hear me how are you i'd so you you guys
were talking over each other i didn't hear what you said are you good we should just go check all
their linkedins they lost their leader which was yeah carry heart was kind of the the de facto
leader and um and she was rumored to be kathleen kennedy's uh heir apparent and she's no longer with
lucasfilm that happened about eight months ago and since then we really haven't heard a whole
lot about that that story group you think there's like a a shitty competitor linkedin called like
lonkton i'm absolutely confident that exists yeah of course i agree of course rags i don't
yeah i don't know why you google yeah i mean why would you even why would you even bring it up
that's pretty much commonly known i am signed up with lonkton it's doing results for linkedin
or just head for lonkton lumped out man not linked linked out log into lonkton is failing with
mechanize it's from 2007 failing with mechanize so i'm really curious about when i did my 24 hour
stream how i was handling these this area because i did go over 24 hours you have three beers i don't
remember it though so i don't know the drink so i did fall asleep in my head into the microphone
at one point though um i think people had to wake me up their own there so this is actually just
opposed to someone who misspelled linkedin as lonkton
log into lonkton is failing with mechanize that's something you actually read i thought you were
just rambling i'll let you know when i stop making sense log into lonkton
oh oh what's this what's this uh we have lonkton jobs at freelancer.com we've got lonkton crosswords
i gotta say the um the the results for lonkton are very small
all right so uh the reputation of finn among first order stormtroopers is simple as a born
and bred soldier specialized in sanitation he cleaned 5 000 toilets um don't they have like a
delayed seated tlj where he's recognized and they're like pally around me with him yeah no i'm not
talking about that one i'm talking about the one where they're in an elevator and they're like
or is that fuck it doesn't matter still is seen anyway but yeah it's weird it's all weird and
poorly done you know what i didn't understand about that is okay he's a janitor then why was
he on that opening scene with like kylo's attack forces because that was like he was gonna clean
up the town after he was armed well yeah the sooner that they shoot everybody the sooner he
can stop bleeding to do the cleaning so they're not as good as what
oh no that's actually that's actually not racist at all
oh sure sure yep because you what are you saying it's not racist that's a compliment
okay you're gonna say like oh you didn't say anything about any other racist truth that's
complimentary first off the last jedi did it second off it's documentary it's racist to say
that something is good about one race because it implies if you're picking out the race that it
implies that the other racists can't do it maybe disney should have made a different film i'm just
going by what i see on the big screen and then there was silence smaller what's next super chat
i was just gonna say that it's funny that if they were lacking one trooper in that drop thing they
were like where do we get an extra trooper from it's like out of sanitation it's like maybe not
maybe maybe get one from this like no sanitation it would be funny if finn comes out of the transport
and he's like his armor clearly doesn't fit and his gun's not loaded he's like he's holding a
mop in the other hand he's got a mop yeah he has a hand to fuck it uh how much of this how much of
this is sweeping it with a mop it's mopping him up how much of this epaf has been spent
shitting on the last jedi a lot oh god fucking a lot of it every time i would tune in you guys
were talking about it it was great 1d4chan.org is a very tldr breakdown of mary susan all the
possible definitions fair enough we did see there's like a couple things that change between
definitions i thought that i thought that every word only had one definition oh don't remind me
love the fact that i can listen to this for four to five hours head out into london for
drinks get pissed and upon returning home find you long men still going yeah you sent that ages
ago you guys are still going yummy chocolates australia home to the world's most dangerous
creatures including fringy shadiversity and the meme repository dangerous creatures hey shad really
enjoyed your chain sword video it was really fun to watch and it seemed you had some fun with it
but i'm sure he would appreciate that what if his name was the meme suppository
i made that joke like three hours ago that was like six hours ago in me time
australia was invented after georgia ran out of room for prisoners
oh my australia doesn't exist you know this that's just what they want you to think j
is there what
olives there in australia olives
koalas koalas koalas yeah it's not like you're saying koalas
yeah i said i heard olas anyway koalas koalas y'all ears broke with the
quote uh the sixth shock nato movie has time travel that was a super chat just
he needed us to know that of course this super chat is just kudos for vidgen mary sue
is that a rags joke i think that was a rags joke rags virgin mary sue yeah i think i think
i don't know it seems familiar that sounds like the kind of joke that i would make
uh just order make the one about one of the one about ordering a virgin roman coke
that i've done before could be could be someone in chat might remember you just got a coke
just ordered uh a pizza in honor of wolf ripped my fucking wallet okay the pizza shouldn't have
destroyed your entire bank account but i mean you know the pizzas generally aren't that expensive
well i guess it depends on if where you're buying it from and i mean if you're like what
and you put diamonds then yeah it'll probably cost a bit more i've never liked the texture
of diamond chat how's the super chat for two dollars okay well maybe it didn't break your
wallet then if someone said that for a two dollar super chat they don't know the value of a dollar
they know the value of two dollars something about pizza congrats on 50 may your watch never end
oh no no no no it has to end at some point how many hours are you now um i believe this
is five hours i'm not actually sure oh jesus no i mean like hourwise oh i haven't um i think
the guy stopped updating it guy was doing it because he obviously would oh no sorry i'm about
to bump into the next one um question how did kylo beat all of luke's students by himself assuming
all of luke's students worry about his age some might even have been older he's a wiener
kylo beat them all because snow gave him forced powers i don't know does it have to make sense
does it does it have to make sense no it's a space movie use the knights of rand to stab them
more in the sleep it was easy look why would we need to know details about the very act that caused
kylo to turn fully to the dark side why would we need to know that it's not like he's a major
character anything it's a space movie for children
yeah yeah they want to promote robot sex
i i know children yeah who want to study that at least for science think about
think about how fucking good the sex robots must be in the star wars universe with their
level of technology they're like faster than light travel yeah but see past the light travel
incorporated to a sex pot
sex pots and austin powers to the sex pot and solo
let's not please what was the sex pot and so i'm just saying like look with the technology they
have and that's the droid that you want to tell me yeah there was no yeah i think there was an
implied like dirty joke like what's yeah with l3 but yeah like cleaning up something she wasn't
a built for purpose sex pot yeah but there are yeah she has the most advanced navigational
computer in the galaxy can be she's a robot so they could switch out parts right so like
when lando is in love with her he could just upgrade her for a certain i mean if he has this
crazy weird fetish then yeah but most sex pot will probably look like organic creatures most
sex pots most what i don't have any reference for sex pots in the sides the star wars universe but
apparently rags does all right no it just it makes sense like you wouldn't want something you're
having sex with to look like a like a load of pipes and wires and yeah unless that was what you
were into that's where disney is showing this is their sex pots i understand why disney wouldn't
want to portray that seedy aspect of they're still putting that idea out there they're just not using
the pretty packaging that usually goes with that type of stuff i was when i was on a stream with
sargon recently and arch was there and we were discussing that eventually we're gonna have to
grapple with the moral implications of people creating sex pots of and frank what the fuck
um i mean i guess that's one of the many possibilities yeah yeah yep the future is
a bright one ladies and gentlemen all right so anyway ray berths anakin and destroys universe
with time loop could very well be the plot to episode nine and then the super chat of hour 11
out of 24 jeez so we're almost half of 24 feed faster well i've got to entertain i just i just
sent a super chat that said if people keep sending super chats this stream is never going to end and
then more super chats games i will i will call this episode and frank sex pot you you can call
it that if you want to write i think i'm just gonna keep the title as it is for what is it called
now it's i don't actually know what i'm a part of what's the title of this stream oh my god did you
have to post the thing in the chat so you would have seen the title then would you no my chat is
popped out on its own tab so it's on the left side of the screen um is it on the left and not
the right because in english we read from left to right so that you know that's how it works
left right top to bottom it's really convincing rags no i i don't understand what's convincing
well it isn't convincing about this it just makes sense because if you have oh my goodness um if you
have the the bot the sorry not the bot i'm sorry my mind's on fucking robin and frank but if you
have like your own tab and you could pop it out and chat make it its own tab which means that all
of the words are on the left hand side of your screen as opposed to the right hand side where
the small window is next to the youtube playback of the stream i'd rather have it on the right side
than the left side that makes sense however i have mine on my right hand monitor so it's better for me
if it is further to the left on my right monitor because i'm using my mail monitor for porn
okay nailed it got him so next up well i've got to entertain some of the masses i call friends for
about four hours knowing how things go here i'll probably be back in time to hear this super chat
read out is that the case william morrison are you in chat he's probably gone to sleep by now
uh we shall see how can ray be so loved when she's an orphan yeah that kind of breaks efap rules but
the film is pretty inconsistent uh would you guys please stop bashing tlj my wife's boyfriend's
husband's wife loves the movie high rags i guess hello uh shad in the army we say train as you fight
as muscle memory takes over when you're overflowing with adrenaline yeah that makes sense um don't
worry about ray this is all just her middle fucking episode nine will be her middle i'm sure
otherwise it'll be unsatisfying we'll see that wisecrack episode pop right out after episode nine
pop it right in the button uh hey when is efap doing man of steel i noticed
man of steel and tlj are similar both end with smiles despite all the dead bodies left behind
ground table key issues and twin perfect easy pickings um yeah we do plan to cover uh
not only man of steel but uh batman his superman at some point in efap so we'll have a selection
hopefully and uh it'll be fun i haven't seen man of steel since it came out and all i saw
was fringy show me a clip that i completely forgotten about the finale where they're just
obliterating buildings and i was like oh my god super bad it's just like can i just say
fuck that movie um fuck man of steel i hate that movie i think that makes sense as a provision
that is permitted so is somebody trying to steal man man of steel i don't think so oh maybe he said
you mentioned brown table in that super chat so maybe brown table's got another video for us to
cover i'll never get bored of brown table he's an evolved tonal he's like a step up so it's all good
i think his takes are worse than tonal though
like tonals is just funny he doesn't necessarily have bad takes all the time yeah sometimes he has
like perfectly understandable takes yeah a lot of times it's all in the delivery
um hmm a hail to all the brown tables takes are like what are you talking about like all of them
reliably hail to 50 50 efaps i can't wait till my weekend pass to watch this whole thing love y'all
keep it up take my army paycheck to fund the memes and rhino milk greetings from fort still okay
somewhere in america right
okay
Oklahoma
ft ft would be forward right am i getting that right
ft is uh fort yes yes awesome uh go do unspeakable things to yourself with that anakin theory good sir
uh i'm guessing that was a response to another super chat probably about the whole anakin
um being great storing universe that sort of thing you never know uh luke wanted to join
oh yeah gary's in chat hello there
luke wanted to join the empire's flight school for god's sake these people he even says at the
start of episode four also higher eggs hello yeah he yeah we went over there's a doomcock actually
popped in for that um talking about how luke is just as much of a berry suit it's just like no
oh berry doe um if ray had a kid with ben solo it would be named no name no name since solo wasn't
a birth name according to the solo movie it'd be called incest i mean she could still give him
an a first name why would it be no name no day baby that's no name sounds like a good name
the problem with time travel is that it's an admission of guilt from lucas film bob eiger
and kk have managed uh have to map have to massive gravitational oh it's supposed to be have
two massive gravitational egos and i don't think they could admit when they're wrong
i mean didn't technically bob i could kind of do that when he rolled back the release of uh
star wars movies that's totally admitting like okay yeah we're not doing this anymore
it changes all by exactly oh the fans sabotaged it they're the people who are wrong
the fans are wrong for not liking it oh do you remember the um the ineffective boycott that
fucked up the what was i forget how he phrased it but he basically just had like a paradox he was
like i know solo only failed because of the lacklustre boycott that was it yeah it only failed
because of the lacklustre boycott i was like uh no star wars land is failing according to bob eiger
because disney fans so not star wars fans disney fans don't care about star wars failing um new star
wars theory raise goes back in time and impregnates shimmy with the force giving new meaning to shimmy's
line there was no father shimmy fuck it whatever shimmy shimmy shimmy she's got a great name
obi-wan fed luke anakin's limbs as chicken wings
i mean that that's also a possible contest you know disney could do whatever they want they
could do that the obi-wan movie you guys think they won't try it to try and test them
um is it possible for a story to incorporate time travel well if not why if yes what separates the
good from bad okay that's a really complicated thing to break down over a load of examples of
movies um i'm so interested to hear your thoughts on this but typically people would
run with back to the future and the reasoning would be that they display their rules and stick
to them um so this is the idea of which model they're using and then how much they stick to it
like because a lot of people were happy that endgame chose the model that they did as opposed to
the standard assessment of what which model to take but i don't think anybody's happy with
their execution how confusing listening to any of the characters in the film explain it is because
makes sense that doesn't make sense um so yeah uh primer as far as i'm aware is like the best
time travel movie that there is and it's extremely heavy content like you need to probably watch it
twice to grasp everything they're trying to get across to you about time travel how it works but
the whole film is centered around trying to make a working time travel model basically um i need to
watch it again in fact but yes it can work i recommend staying the hell away from it because
it makes everything much more complicated watch blink blink handles time travel really well your
opinion no it's not it's like to watch you struggle i thought uh i'm ready for you i need
you to do a breakdown of hot tub time machine mauler oh yeah why would i touch such a glorious movie
well i don't know if you've announced this to your efap crowd but we do have 2 000 people
watching but i have uh officially mauler has agreed to do a i've left i've left the option
open it's either can be an unbridled praise or rage of uh high school musical once the
channel hits 1 million subs he has to do it we're gonna be a praise how could i rage against some of
we're not gonna stop not gonna stop till we reach the top
on it
what they do is after they say um they when they start saying bet on it
it's it's actually kind of tricky to kind of pull off because they start on the off beat
and then there's the pause and then they switch to the on beat
see i'm gonna have to contact like a musician to explain to me why high school musicals actually
well put together in some way so i actually have stuff to say so you have you know one two three
four one two and then you get that little bitty that little little pause there put that on it
that on and then there's the pause and then they instantly there's no pause after they figure the
last bet on it and then they do to the next series of bet on it they start on the first beat
it's a four four time common time so rags rags we also discussed
i think we proved that rags should make the video yeah yeah we also discussed you doing
something for jingle all the way i see i would actually be on board with making that film kicks
out i do i love it um don't worry rags i got the fiat joke these monies are for you there you go
rags your card joke was not missed by everybody a lot of people in chat supported the card joke
people said people were saying rags there's too much about high school musical i'm the oldest of
four all right i got so much fucking high school musical in my life jesus christ
oh corbin blue and all these people with their songs and dances and
and it's how i think it's how it's how i learned is for is how i learned about crim brulee
uh i bought the japanese dub of lord of the rings in tokyo and ripped them would any of
you masses like a torrent for it it's only theatrical but very but still the japanese
dub of lord of the rings i'd probably watch it like like a scene or two but that would be enough
for me i'll watch it before i watch the english version hey god how has he not been kicked yet
the jade davisley looks left and right like what do you mean
take a look at peter's game of thrones milk tweet oh got milk tweet sorry oh yeah i saw that one
what is it i don't have to pull it up just it's like they draw they drew a cow head on top of
a lady whose breasts are being sucked on by a guy so stop that sounds kind of hot
yeah i i'm convinced there's a furry that's handling it so the the pita account in general so
of course they also did something like another sex related tweet that's so gross is it though
are you sure it's not hot i'm pretty sure it's not hot yes i will let me call up will smith
and he'll use his binoculars to determine whether or not this is indeed hot or not okay he's the
god the final say yes yes of course oh it's busy i have to leave a message gas brown lee um
the falcon needs a co-pilot too so ray was doing the job of two people and flying it better than
anyone has done before but yeah she's totally not a mary sue yeah we didn't actually mention that
when we're going over in the video she she's doing the whole reaching over the pilot seat in order to
run the ship with the two people at the same time and yet she still manages to do one of the most
impressive moves i think we've ever seen across all the movies with the fucking falcon outside of
maybe solo at this point doing the whole castle run thing i guess but um certainly up to that
point i think it's not even that impressive it's just it's literally there's no way to pull that
off other than luck i mean the the ray thing yeah the triple kill with one shot the only way to
pull that off is if everyone just conveniently lies it lines up in front of your gun which exactly
lines it uh into the conditions of being a mary sue because to be a mary sue the world conspires
to make you look good it's not i suppose i guess you're right because she doesn't say
yeah i aimed it perfectly she says yeah i don't know what the fuck happened
like oh she would still have to aim at the just the right spot and time the shot at just
the right time where all of those three targets are intersecting the same line
well yeah and and she says she doesn't even know how she pulled that off it's like oh great
it's almost like somebody wants me to win fuck it's crazy the plot as a character is like come
on ray come on you can do it it wasn't when we were recently talking about like the overly
sarcastic productions video on mary sues where and yeah she she's right when she says that mary
sues are mary sues because the world conspires to make them look good and that's a perfect example
of that yeah yeah it's like their pilots were like shoot us please for your glory yeah it's
just the most insane shit uh you mad lads are actually doing it 24 hours of efap cheers
cheers then um cheers at shadowverse the animal i love your content lind a lot and laughed a lot
published my first book the boys of silo god this is back with shadow oh my god i just looked at a
picture and i thought it was animated for a second because my eyes are going for the yeah i i'm gonna
have to probably head out here in a moment that is a okay i'm perceiving motion where there is none
oh no i know that rags i think you might not be okay i'm fine he's fine he said he'd tell us if
he wasn't making sense why don't you remind people of this it made sense that i was able i was able
to recognize my delusion which means i'm making sense um yeah uh the boys of silo about hitly
youth named blaz ivo and kobe any tips on advertising i literally know nothing about advertising
more um i i don't know what shad might may or may not have said about that um
i guess yeah
is it yeah when it comes to advertising a book i don't i don't even know where to start with that
probably certain websites i guess try and get pull out ads um here and there i don't know
uh
that new rags pick sums up his thoughts on tlj defenders i agree
i give them the poo poo some poo is poking his tongue out of them
it's considered rude in some cultures but you know what it's cute uh can you imagine if it was
that easy before yoda just downloads the force into luke suddenly the vader versus luke battle
in episode five would go very different well this is the thing when they're trying to plug a leak
being that ray is too overpowered and they explained that she downloaded force powers
from another person it's like um so could everyone do this before we even talk about how stupid that
is it's like if that's true what's what's yoda do with all those students you could just be like
yeah just turn up when you're 18 and we'll just download them i know that you could be like well
they need to train idly on how to use this like fuck off ray didn't she could just use it download
responsibility into her as well oh and vito said buy facebook ads and pay for a nice book cover i
suppose this yeah but i'm sure those would help have you guys seen the new flash gets video
involving joe rogan and a chimp if not you guys should totally check it out for the lulls
we'll try and remember to flash gets this funny shit
make a note uh this is for spider milk and to say congrats to one year it's been a blast
and can't wait for the next i'm glad to see you guys finally got your guest rags on again
hopefully he wasn't impregnated by the force um my butt with your force babies uh hey rags
hey respect plus for being a subjective car massive what's your favorite car
oh my favorite car man i don't know um my favorite car honestly i like my car it's i
own it i enjoy it it's fun to drive i don't i mean my favorite car i don't know honestly don't know
i've enjoyed many different kinds of cars but i like my car i like it a lot
so do you want us to say what car yours was so they know i guess no it still is it's um
is a i drive a 2004 mazda speed miata there you go it's not flashy uh fancy it's tons of fun to
drive i like it but mauler when i was a kid i used to sword fight with sticks with my friends
all the time does that not make me a master swordsman typically yes so if you if you're
if you're fluent in stick skill as was established uh the the man in the video said stick like uh
sword like uh weapons and stick like something he said stick at one point if proficient with a stick
a lightsaber is essentially the same thing so uh you're well on the way um hour 12 of 24
halfway there there you go i'm halfway through the superchas guys yeah
oh god uh so this massive face is an autism like weapon
efap is a sword like weapon oh god this is where we got to the sword like weapon memes
what is this
give him the stick don't give him the stick oh wait oh i've not i've not even had a research
reference you wouldn't download the i just realized there's gonna be people in chat who
are actually like what are you referencing it's like yeah because you people were asleep when
this these memes were created yeah i don't know what's happening also even even efap fans are
like hang on i wasn't awake from all those memes sorry uh you wouldn't download the force
excellent my meat scepter is more of a sword like weapon by meat scepter i've not actually heard
someone referred to it that way that's wonderful could you use your deke as a sword like weapon
i think it's more of a it's more of a blunt weapon really it's mostly efficient for stabs
more of a yet it has very little cutting potential could you say it's it's a it's
a baseball bat like weapon is not to be underestimated uh add slapped a few balls
around in its time oh absolutely dad can expand on it but even using sword like weapons such as size
are completely different from using a sword even using a katana is different than a broadsword
oh yeah he would uh he gave us a lot of insight into that was good shit so i'm gonna head out i'm
actually like really needing sleep so i will catch y'all later uh it's fucking great to have
you for the for however long that was rags we did it i don't know actually what our numbers math
time uh it's too complicated it's yeah it is too complicated i'm not going to worry about it
because complicated is hard and right now math isn't the best um math is never the best oh yeah
yeah i agree um but god bless it it tries so i will see y'all later
yeah absolutely i don't know when i'll see you because i'm gonna go to sleep for like 20 hours
so yeah thanks can i speak for everyone here and say thank you for the long tin story that
was that was actually pretty great so we all appreciated that yeah yeah it was really nice
the long tin story like google or something so yeah if you guys have a linkedin make sure you
make a long tin as well all right someone's gonna buy that to me yeah long tin good night rags good
night that poor man did you see his brain was melting toward the end couldn't you don't you
shouldn't do that with a person me on the other hand there's some good
my brain's fine how long have i been up now it was two yeah it was from one pm yesterday
one pm yesterday and it is currently 4 46 pm so that's 24 plus three four six right
seven four six seven so nearly 28 hours we're fine jesus
we're fine and speaking of fine let's let's kick on
the funny thing is i'm actually on a timer i gotta beat the 12-hour cap now that wasn't supposed to
be a problem but are you serious well we're we're at 8 43 so i've got three hours three hours and
20 minutes so let's get going um maula when i saw you first you were just a short man yelling with
a rotten watermelon now look at you 50 masses later i'm a few faps behind and i don't know when
i'll get caught up so take my 50 for your 50 and slice and dice thank you very much sir i
did start out with a rotting watermelon it's actually fascinating to compare that to uh
my modern videos because it's just like what did you do you changed everything
uh 2 40 a.m time for bed i'll see you in the morning that was from a profile called erotic
fungus neat i wonder if he's already gone back to sleep like friggy did
just i still love the idea that frees got to sleep twice um in my timeline like
anyway uh hi guys in the clone wars a ship that got into got into about to go into hyperspace
mode inside a capital ship had to get out because they would not destroy it but actually take the
ship with them to wherever they were jumping to uh i would say jeremy and anna probably have the
better reference for that because that's probably something they've seen i i don't know that would
be uh that would be the rules as we understand them for hyperspace right and then uh they've
kind of fucked it up in the sequel film yeah wasn't totally paying attention i was on twitter
arguing with people he said that there's an episode of the clone wars jeremy listen there's
an episode of clone wars where there's a ship inside another ship and they have to get the
little ship out of the big ship because if they go to hyperspace when the big ship they'll take
the big ship with them either sounds like an episode with anakin and soca or a clone episode
he was a clone episode but i don't remember i don't remember specifically though
i was just gonna say that i'm assuming that the point is that the the rules have changed from
within the the clone wars as well as the ot to moving across to uh
the sequel films because they don't give a shit they wanted holder to do a special light show
yeah i don't remember that episode though i'm trying to remember that episode i think i do
i think i remember um i used to hit a tree with a long paint stick i clearly know how to sword
fight shad fight me one on one i'm sure he'd be on board ala secura episode
what he said in the chat ala's the blue twelik he gets assassinated in the third one
yeah she does it's sad the flower maulers like maulers like let me just keep reading super
chests no i i was i was i was i was gonna say welcome to respond she's do you remember the
one she's referring to i don't it's not jumping out at me trying to remember her apprentice
oh my god spoilers Anna's talking spoilers are going to happen
this show has been out for like 10 fucking years they should have watched it you don't have you
don't have any standard with your spoiler so don't even start implementing standards
i'm so tired we showed we showed i man snapping in a meme video on the stream it was like we
spoiled stuff rip i if it works because it is all good well i'll just we'll just we'll just keep
going jeremy will remember one day it'll be fine um i'm actually stopping i just i just i just i
just actually started rewatching the common wars two days ago so um i'll run across should have
gone on that one it was still on netflix what do what now should have done that when it was still
on netflix because now it's not on netflix no i know i just i just bought the whole whole thing
we gave disney money
i used i used my i used my efap payout so that means we paid disney but tell them about that
tell them i get efap payout never mind why are you giving efap dollars to disney
the final round is the one that spent all of her money on on disneyland yesterday
apparently a single freaking dime at disneyland i know i know you're gonna get that soon as soon
as i saw you uploading i'm like she's going to get so much hell just like i did even though i got in
for free um but yeah i lied i got starbucks at disneyland owned by disney so but i needed the
caffeine because i've been awake since uh i am yesterday so i'm almost at 24 hours and i wasn't
even on this stream everybody's doing a 24 hour life these days apparently
the final red pill is realizing that swords are just stick like weapons that's from shad's editor
as well uh shad's what are your thoughts on all seven lightsaber forms if you know them check out
jed staray's videos if not love to know your thoughts on them i'll um i'll throw that into a
a notepad and then the next time he's on i'll try and get him to uh talk about it if he knows about
it i feel like that could be a a lot talk about happy efap adversary mauler and company best efap
ever shout out to wolf spend all day watching no regrets stay toxic y'all ps high rags the amount
of high rags i can't even have responses to now it's uh get like the sandblight of him saying hello
but then we just all of us can just say hello to it that's true any of you guys are welcome to
respond if i say high rags uh and why can't jedi hate shouldn't they hate evil i don't know i can't
remember all the rules of the jedi are they allowed to hate evil i think they're supposed
to be ambivalent towards it that they dock it out it's kind of like when you get like that emotion
of hate and you do stupid stuff out of anger is don't let yourself get to that level of where
you're gonna because you have this ultimate power right like things that not everyone has so you
have more power than the average person so don't do something out of anger because
turn to kill a room full of children so that that's the whole thing is don't let yourself
get to that level of hatred i guess where you're going i could probably kill a full room of
children if i wanted to yeah i i believe you could jay believe you could um i was gonna say
there's sort of the difference between condemning something and then being angrily hateful toward
the jedi like these bad so you don't need to be angry about ripping them apart though or stopping
them the passionate element i suppose uh this guy would argue that a trained knight in medieval times
can become a modern day swat sniper in a couple of days because they're both metal sticks happy
anniversary yes hello all my n words oh wait somebody in chat said the episode of the clone
wars is jedi crash tell geeks and gamers that so there you go jeremy there you go jeremy yeah
go find it and then scan through it and be like oh this one i'll do it you guys go do the thing
you guys read superchats yet another reason her parents threw her away i can't remember oh because
ray there's a lot of reasons why so uh respecting weapon skills when rerolling your class it's a
space movie anything can happen that was a really bad video surrounding me of those arguments uh
can i get a happy birthday from er if he shows up well he did show up after that i didn't see this
message um i have to imagine er saying it totally would have oh damn yeah we had a whole bunch of
uh random cameos you never would have expected and i didn't necessarily plan any of them i just
let people know that today was the day and they kind of worked out that's super cool jeremy this
is the episode where anakin gets injured on the planet and asoka has to go with ayla on the mission
and so ayla teaches asoka like the how you need to let go because she's too attached to anakin
okay what what episode is it i'm looking up i'm looking it up in my uh jedi no no i'm looking
for the actual episode number because i have theories here i want to watch clips of it uh
season one episode 13 so that's the one it was all everything it's when they crash on the planet
and anakin and rex get injured and so and asoka go on the mission and ayla tells asoka that she
needs to learn not to be so attached to her master to be prepared that if it comes to it
they are going to have to leave anakin and rex there to die to save the greater good
i'm i'm about to watch it right now i remember it now but that but that first the first season
actually the first two seasons are so jacked up with the timeline unless you watch it in the
correct order everything is so out of whack if you ever watched the clone wars go to starwars.com
and look at the the right way to watch it not the way it's presented
because you can do what i did and watch them and just figure it out yeah well it's still better
the way i said it she's half asleep don't listen to her no i'm half asleep and i remembered all
of that just by seeing a picture of this episode who's the true fan jeremy who's the true fan
she pulled the star wars explained and went to wokipedia no
i read that dude he ran away from you i would have
of she's gonna be a clone of you this is the damn pig you can never sorry i've got
this i've got it on my computer i don't care this is what anna and i do right here we just
argue so it's all good it's exactly what we do all right i just sent you the fucking picture i
remembered all this damn shit from this stupid picture i have the episode right here in front
of me i don't care maybe if you see this picture it'll jog your memory
all right moving on super chats don't listen to her he's gonna be a clone of you just got
you just got you guys just got a preview episode of driving miss anna there you go
she's going to be a clone of luke force clone again anything is possible for episode nine
luke wants to give ray his stick-like weapon so crap
it's more like saying your major lee voice you're not healthy you need to look at women more
doesn't sound like him i mean i gotta i gotta listen to him more that's my best i can do off
the top of my head with i i disagree with that bro he sounds like a like a frat bro
i agree yeah i don't disagree with that
like if i had time to work on my impression i could probably do a good major lee i just
i just need to listen to him more i haven't actually listened to him
other than you guys responding to him it's felt like it ages since i'd experienced the lee
um i understand now ray was just scavenging when suddenly she's a jedi she didn't ask for this she
didn't choose this yet there it is and it's treated as no more difficult than being a scavenger yes
uh rags has done nothing wrong patricia
oh it's an excellent one patricia taxing can go fuck yourself give this to rags please
done and done and yeah um we're expecting a rags video from patricia taxon i guess
they'll be coming soon heading to sleep because some people work for a living you love your
basses i'll see you tomorrow sleep well salad king is group just a massive bundle of stuff
oh we did read that one out good shit i'm only half a bundle of sticks
rats are making it a year long man and edwards i have to listen to it later have a country fair
to go to hi rags rags oh hi oh hi hi wait it's like will they remember i'm watching this episode
right now what is such a strange way to just says oh cunt how you going oh hi friend how it going
it's good i guess strange strange super chest jay longbone with literally the best time joke in
efap history yeah she she had some uh some fun shit i i believe that was i want to say all of
part two i think she was in it for i really can't remember anymore it's all bleeding together
uh put this towards a sword like weapon also hi rags there's a lot of this sort of like weapon stuff
huh yes there is um just got back to the stream again after getting done watching america first
with nick wentez uh this thing here is an eagle saying oh oh my goodness rah you're so controversial
the belgium is the most offensive word in the universe why yay hedgehiker's reference oh
sad i didn't go i haven't seen that film in way too long film film i haven't read the book
and not even the book it's the uh like the apex versions of hitchhikers are either the
original uh audio show or the tv show adaptation
oh and you ever saw the movie i'm freeman man that's like that's like one of the worst versions
of it but it had alan rickman as the robot i like that yeah that's neat but like
jay's a bad person confirmed shut up someone just said kick jay i think it's clear jay is upset the
audience again jay apologize i actually agree with jay well thank you okay i'm kidding uh
one take in the chat and it's the tv show is much better than the movie it is
i mean oh there's a tv show i didn't even know there was one so it's like yeah maybe yeah well
tv show has the original cast from the audio drama well not all of them but some of them
and it was originally an audio drama
um we'll check it out ray is just collecting boulders for mundane matt and his kid
it makes enough sense to me uh this is like saying luke lifting a 10 pound dumbbell is
the same as ray lifting a 100 pound dumbbell with ease and that's the same equivalency somehow
yeah i mean she seems to lift more than yoda did with less stress it's just a rough to watch when
and that's how you understood how the universe works um mauler it's established that there were
eight massive boulders that are used to help train and measure force abilities yoda at the
time of prequels could only barely lift seven how does ray lift again i didn't even i'm guessing is
that like expanded law that there are oh yeah we might actually get an answer to all of that
episode nine you realize that like like jay jay might be like she is the daughter of palpatine
uh better to lift the death star over jack who that's what i want to see i think you'll be
you'll be probably i could see you having a grid on your face in the cinema at that point be like
this is so shit it's gonna be so broken it's gonna be so broken i want to see creed do the opening
uh the opening crawl i want to see i want scott step to be singing with his shirt blowing in the
wind i just want this movie to be a pure shit show um i feel like that would be anything
what we're gonna get yeah if it's so bad that like basically the entire audience is like no
like it's kind of like that play the producers where their whole thing is that they want to get
the worst play ever so that way they can write it off as a flop and they can get all the money
but then they get the worst play ever the worst cast ever the worst director ever
and it turns into a hit are you saying that this might be the dreaded future for episode nine
it might be a hit no jeremy's idea for episode nine would be the accidental hit
yeah well like you've got to see this movie people will probably be like yeah they're like dude creed
is playing the opening crawl like it's the worst best craziest horrible worst thing ever and
everybody will go watch it and then it'll be a big entertaining but that's the difference between
what episode nine is actually going to be i bet it's going to be entertaining
i hope it reaches that right yeah i hope it reaches that that echelon that'll be deep
um the ray the ray the ray rumor about her lifting into the death star of jakku is it has
to happen at this point i will be disappointed if it doesn't wait hang on that's actually a rumor
what is what is it she lifts the death star with the force yeah over jakku fucking hell
why not jay why why not why not why not yeah you're saying you think she can't do that
you can she's ready um so good i can't wait to see it now that's the rumor the archangel just
put up a super chat of hour 26 out of question mark and i'm i'm now reading his hour 13 out of 24
exactly half i've i've managed to keep up with him to halfway i've got to keep going um
is that also how ray resists kyla's mind melting technique because she didn't know it would work
oh yeah there's uh he says the justification for her doing mind control in tfa was the hey
she didn't know it would work what
when you guys are captured at any time of the future kidnapped so they literally
try mind control because fuck it it might work you don't know
only if it's james bond there's a stormtrooper costume mm-hmm good old daniel craig
uh be that doge meme guy that's completely backwards the degenerate fury stuff is the
only thing about rags that's cringe everything else is based that's that's raw proven of rags i guess
um i don't know anything about hypnosis can i just do it if i believe hard enough without
learning how to do it yes this applies to every skill ever here's to a year of efapping and to
many more thank you hon is it true that leah stood by and let a twilex sex slave die to save
you instead of rescuing her um you oh you talking about the end of the world beginning of return to
the jedi how did that count she was kind of isn't it wasn't her own fault she's trying to rip the chain
lando was there i guess we they should have
i love to rewatch i can't remember if they if there's a moment in which they should be taking
action on yeah they're having the party thing and then leah comes in with chewy after that
whole thing happens right so i guess lando would be the only person who could have done something
um which is kind of risky i think he'd be dead um mr solo i hear there are rumors there's photos
showing that watto and his tribe were dancing on the rooftops of alderaan when the death star
blew up is that true why
egoraptor is a big cuck he and quinton must be both yeah egoraptor recently apologized for all
of the jokes he's ever told that may or may not have been offensive which is a shame because his
animations back in the day were fucking funny as hell but it's like oh well offensive jokes are
offensive too much in in our world at this point uh fast and furious is the saint's row of actions
movies action movies it started out a serious crime smuggling story now it's a goofy superhero
antics the people want it the people want it yeah have you seen hubs and shaw that that
shit's hilarious i watched your video on it i believe you made a video on it right yeah it's
it's hilarious you should all watch it it's funny as fuck um when you guys do let me ask
is is hubs i love the fast and furious movie so but i haven't seen hubs and shaw is it is it within
like the craziness of the fast and furious and where it's evolved to is it feel like it's part
of that universe still yeah i think it's even crazier because they're they're they're fighting
a cyborg basically like the terminator yeah he's black superman yeah yeah the amount of times i've
heard him say that i'm black superman like all right all right all right i get it i've got a
lot because i do i love the fast and furious movies and um but they have gone to the point
to where now i don't have any i don't have an expectation for them the only expectation i have
is if they get stupider but it's not to like where star wars is at where it upsets me that
star wars is so dumb now but fast and furious the dumber it gets the better i want to see space
flying cars i want to see vin diesel riding a t-rex i want to see all this shit man um i just i
want to see vin diesel ride a t-rex and and i want to see uh a i don't know i i just want to
see crazy shit in the fast and furious and the worse it gets the better it'll be for me
where star wars is the worst it yeah the worst it gets the better it'll be for me only because
i was right by calling disney out um but that's it right now we had this is this is what efap
will be remembered for um i need is it universal i need you to make sure that that at some point
that vin diesel is riding a t-rex i want to see dom writing a t-rex in the fast and furious at
some point in time i need this to happen please someone clip this right now and upload it so
universal sees it dominic toretto riding a t-rex that shit would be will smith hot right there
that would be amazing like with or without the binoculars uh with binoculars you have to
have the binoculars let's say you can't really tell can someone can some can someone please
photoshop or can someone with photoshop abilities uh editing abilities can someone make the will
smith meme with him looking into the binoculars and we see vin diesel riding a goddamn t-rex
please make that happen i want to see this happen it'll probably happen
the fast and jurassic
the jurassic and the furious um this this super chat says what are you guys doing the quiz it's
like oh yeah we did that it like we'll get there movie bob's name should have been mega man make
eugenics great again get it mega great i believe movie bob was the only person on the
planet to defend metroid other m story that's all you need to know yeah that that game did not play
other m that reputation that's the one metroid game i couldn't play yeah i haven't played it
either i've already ever heard horrible things about it i was like um did you know that the
baddies in world war two had black leather costumes and skulls on this stuff nazism is
for little children oh this would be the core of video i think now might make sense now this is
the content i came for no i still don't know what we're actually covering with these super cats i'm
gonna guess eventually ra or whoever said that rag's fairy stuff is only negative eat me without
the adorable doggo stuff rags would just be video game mauler right but mauler covers video games
i'm coming
joseph addison actually asked you to explain how your joke was funny mauler what the heck joke
police indeed yeah i guess what clarification i should have about the whole thing with the
massive thing it wasn't i think he understood the mechanics he was just like how could someone find
what you said funny and i was like i don't know a lot of people did it's just the literal joke
police like i do not i am not amused they proved that this is amusing uh so the ewok star wars films
on the same level as the last jedi or is there a clear standard to the whole space wizards for
children argument i i need to see those movies but they're probably better problem with the last
jedi is it broke everything within the universe you can have bad content within the universe and
that's fine we've had bad content we've had bad stories we've had bad dialogue we have bad
characters there's nothing wrong with that that is the reality of any universe you're going to have
the last jedi broke canon it broke continuity it that's the problem with the last jedi and then
with the fact that disney then doubled down on it and called fans racist and sexist for having an
opinion there's a lot of problems that go even beyond the last jedi but the last jedi broke
the universe's rules that it was set within and then the company that owned the goddamn thing
started calling the fans racist success and sexist for calling them out on it there's so
many problems with this movie and some of those problems go beyond the movie itself
so when people try to say oh the prequels or the holiday special or the none of that
shit matters none of those broke the fucking lore the last jedi broke the rules of the universe
and it abandoned the characters that is the problem with it so for any of the last jedi
defenders out there you can like the fucking movie we're not telling you that that's the
problem where the problem is is that it is beyond anything else that we've seen within this universe
agreed i didn't go on a mini rant i didn't want to mirror it it's always the best time to go
mini rants when you're at level of sleep actually wait you've had a lot of sleep right you're all
good to go i actually haven't i was kind of i was actually i was being very very sarcastic
with you in the beginning so um i've only had about two hours sleep i was supposed to come on
with you last night and um i kept getting tied up uh with phone calls and and i actually uploaded a
gellette video uh that's actually doing fucking great this gellette video in like less than like
five hours i feel like has got 140 000 views on my channel it's great uh because uh they abandoned
their social justice marketing bullshit after they lost eight billion dollars you really fucking
oh yeah yeah uh totally like they've completely now moved on now they're moving on to um uh they're
trying to celebrate the mint the male heroes now you know they've completely just completely abandoned
the social justice marketing never mind that just what three weeks ago their ceo basically said that
we uh that we we will take the loss because we did the right thing no you didn't you dumb
other efforts um so now they've moved on from it they've completely just
opposed themselves and it's hilarious but anyway no i haven't had a lot of sleep and uh i actually
took nyquil and only got like two hours sleep so i'm kind of struggling we can do it sleep everybody
there's only like a billion more left guys this will be easy pretty much melatonin or nyquil none
of it really works on me um i i think i think it's just to a point where i'm just immune to it
um and see so you we finish on that so big old discussions like to come right back into
these stupid chests with no context and it's shindler's list is my favorite comedy
like well what am i supposed to do with that yeah rags are here and frank joke again so yes
sort of yes 10 minutes to lynn tod stands i feel like that's a professor toss pop or whatever
i'll figure this out exactly where we are the continuity of the ephaps apparently this is
still the second stream how come nobody says the dark knight rises x-men origins wolverine
or green lantern a superhero movie is intended for children oh yeah like if you go if you try
to criticize any of them you go well they're superhero movies intended for children so why
criticize them oh we should we should engage this defense on other content to see how it goes
um some boomers say adults liking children's media is the cause of millennial woes and thus
filmmakers are morally obligated to make them deliberately bad to avoid creating more
women well man children and women children i guess what the fuck i don't um i just think
that they're poor writers i don't know if this is that level of like conspiracy
did i cut someone off that as well i started like so i was gonna say something
oh i thought and we always say man babies and now they're saying woman children i was like cool
they're finally including us yay um congrats all how do i send you guys memes that would be
the one way is twitter another way is the discord um and then like i guess asking me in
some way shape or form and then another way was the subreddit i believe is another one
and i don't get to see everything but i do try and and catch it all to a degree um mola could
you treat us to a live mini gedelb i mean you've you've seen my collection of notes for the biggest
set of notes i've had in in a in a thing well it makes sense because how long has it has been
yes uh all that will be seen wonderfully in gedelb three coming to live april first
twenty i'm not even far away from that that's eight months i know that sounds dumb but it's
pretty fun not in mules lee time that's like i get through like two more videos before the end
sub share that would be like oh no uh a firefly is the opposite of a waterfall hey
okay that's pretty good yeah yeah that's some lewd hand touching i wasn't ready oh this so this is
the still on the video arguing that ray is a good character and not a mary sue i guess
that was the the hand touching i love how it's been one year and a half and you me we are still
hating on and pissed off with this pile of shit the dark side is strong the hatred runs through us
i mean it's not they were convinced that tlj would age well it's like oh it's very much done
the opposite um for being coherent despite the hours of chatter hopefully we're still coherent
to a degree despite what is it now eight plus nine plus nine so 26 hours and 15 minutes yeah
yeah a lot of beef happened bam uh have any of you seen or read cloud atlas
i think i saw it once i don't remember it um and and i got onto me because i told her i didn't
really understand that movie so so weird movie i mean she called me names and told me i was dumb
yeah um wanted to love that movie i wanted to love the movie but you just have to pay attention
and not be on your phone or your computer not really easy for me to do these days
doesn't matter you want to enjoy this movie pay attention i was gonna say i can't read
so are you are you pulling the zach snyder fan card on me where if like if i didn't like it i
just didn't pay it i didn't understand it that's what zach snyder fans do to it's all everybody
says his movies are shit zach snyder fans have the right or don't have the right to say that
because his movies don't make any fucking sense this is very well thought out that is based on a
book and uh there is some like philosophy with the way that the story is told which i mean i
read a lot of books so and re i saw the movie before i read the book
the book knowing what i learned in the movie it made more sense for me to read the book
explaining this right at all but uh i'll send you
and look at that will help you and that's the only thing you're allowed to look at while you
watch this movie it's basically how as time goes on the theory of you having
knives but it's not so much you it's that it's the stereotype of a character so there's always
going to be the villain there's always going to be the two lovers there's always going to be
the innocent chosen one there's always going to be the kind of in between character
and so it's showing these stereotypical characters
and how maybe in sometimes they're going to like this one will be a rich character and this one
will be a poor character and then in another time it could be the opposite or maybe those people
don't even know each other maybe one of these characters isn't even around anymore because they
died but uh it's good once you understand that all right send me the chart huh
uh with the chart we'll send you the chart it has pictures and everything
but there is spoilers on it so i will find one that doesn't have spoilers
and then you can watch the movie and you'll understand i was gonna say i really don't have
any reference for cloud atlas i can't really offer anything about it and uh it's great you
should watch it well i i did watch it again i can't remember anything from it so i'd have to
watch it again i may as well have not as watched it i'll send you the chart too okie dokie um
never did a super chat before but with this being efap 50 i felt the need been a fan since before
efap sadly you massives always stream while i'm at work still have to watch episode 48 and 49
fuck my life hi rags hi nailed it thank you for staying that's why i think mauler actually did
this stream just so at some point your your work would not overlap with efap like that's is that
that was exactly why he did a 27 hour live stream because at some point you can't work 27 straight
hours right wasn't that the thought mauler just take it on it yeah what what he said 100% there you go
um thank you for staying up all your notes there's a never mind go ahead i'm gonna stop
shut up jeremy go no no go go mauler oh thank you for staying up all night alongside me while
i'm working on videos have some taco money directly for your taco wallet thank you very much um
jim sterling equals the way the creative way so apparently cuck is blocked they spelled it with a
euro symbol very creative you know just stealing is a fat cuck blocked i don't know is it blocked
i don't know if they needed to do that it might be out of motion uh apparently you can't say fat
in chats that doesn't sound right i'm gonna type it right now cuck works maybe in superchats it's
different yeah that worked yeah fat works too it's like it's a lay on how crap this is a lay
on how long it takes the stream to go out so for a load of people then for a second i would have
just said fat in the chat jay what the fuck dude no no the chat is just full of fat cuck
mauler all i want to say is rip to your sleep i'll be getting plenty soon enough hopefully
here's to mauler rags and shad praise the darn jay longburn keep up the good work
thank you been watching such listening since 8 a.m central thank you for the content this
is great hey mauler i was curious if you follow preston jacobs and his game of thrones videos
and book analysis he currently has a great series on fixing the last season um i the say i give the
same answer most people have asked me i saw his stannis video when i was really pissed at season
five and beyond that i haven't i don't think i've seen anything from him but as far as i i thought
i thought it was a good channel so um that's my only interactions um our 14 of 24 that's where i'm at
that's that's progress right yeah um well well well if it isn't my favorite massives
no please objectively review this please conclude world war trilogy it's 225 oh that's a great video
watch it it's hilarious i think i know what it is wolf sent me it it's funny
it's like it's created expectations and the third one's probably never gonna come out of that sort
of shit but yeah everyone should go check that out my favorite i was gonna say what my favorite
line in that video was but no just go watch the video i can't i can't do that joke justice
oh ragu is so adorable that is a super chat uh glad the wolf is doing better now he can permanently
replace wolf with j and rags with sitch rags is painfully and rags is painfully and trash
not funny also hi rags oh hi those are mixed messages i got it first um shad end game is the
worst avengers film face it or shad would not would not agree with that would he would take you
to task with that age of ultron exists um yeah i would i would say is the worst of the lot but hey
objectively age of ultron is the worst i i enjoy the first avengers the least at this point though
fair enough oh yeah yeah subjectively i quite like uh age of ultron it's just got its its big
problems in it i like the first avengers movie better than any of the others oh what just doesn't
read it doesn't read like after the first after the first viewing it falls completely it's such
a light movie there's no depth to it whatsoever first time you get to see all of the superheroes
together after all that build up then doesn't make it a good movie say it's a good movie i said it's
the one i enjoy the most listen before responding just saying like that doesn't make it like once
you watch it the second time it really feels like a flat movie times i watched infinity war once
never need to watch again in game i regret watching why would you not watch infinity war
a second time because i know what comes after and i don't want to do that to myself what's
wrong with endgame what no i don't you know the answer to that question jay don't get us don't
get us started on endgame though even jay does the answer to that question no but like not to
that extent like not to the extent like oh fuck that fuck what they did yeah i have problems with
endgame but not like not as bad as anna does the worst thing they did in that film was what they
just did the hulk and that's it like that's that's the that's the worst it gets no that's the worst
i disagree i know you and i just met today but uh i know you have a tendency to not watch movies
all the way through or fall asleep so did you actually i wish i watched a game all the way
through you thought in theater you weren't on your phone no i've seen that film a few times
problem with it that was my biggest problem with it
okay let me ask you this so rhino the time travel is fucked like oh yeah let me let me
do this little science thing okay so you know how they have to go get those vials right
yeah oh yeah it makes no sense that they wouldn't do that first
okay but me and cab have to they have to go back in time tony gets to see his dad have a
conversation with his dad and then they they have to get those vials so or else they can't
get back to the future because you need one vial for one person right right yep
yes i agree too before i okay
Thanos gets into nebula's mind oh he gets one vial and he gets to take the entire ship is that
where you're gonna yeah it really has issues but
thing is they're not small jay these are not they're not small issues it has big plot holes
but like the characters remain completely attacked except for the whole way except for two of the
most significant ones wouldn't all be fighting yeah one person can go through Thanos can somehow
without a suit bring his entire ship and his entire army through space and time
but yet in fairness he did have an indefinite time to research it
you're killing me you did what you did that makes it better it doesn't make it good but it makes it
better you fall into the subjective subjectively side of it subjectively you you enjoy the movie
but objectively it has a lot of problems oh yeah i wouldn't deny it i'm never saying it
it doesn't have a lot of problems no but you just said the biggest problem was hulk
well yeah like and i'm giving you a really big problem because that entire fight wouldn't have
happened in terms of like characters the biggest like in terms of like them like shitting over
stuff that's already happened in infinity war the biggest problem is hulk because like the the the
massive plot holes in it they don't shit on what happens in infinity war yeah i really want to like
you what they don't they have nothing to do with the events of infinity war like they're just the
plot just doesn't work in this movie you could you could argue that they do the fact that they
decide that the best way to collect the gems is all these weird ridiculously dangerous areas instead
of just going back to when Thanos had most of them in the corner already and just taking it off him
just going back in time to when they were created top his arm off also there there's a lot of you
know and that completely what i'm getting at is that it fundamentally makes doctor strange an
idiot in infinity war oh yeah totally i looked over the chat and i was really surprised not to
see any kick j and then someone typed kick j and i was like yeah oh
uh so i do appreciate that
all right a thousand wolf live within you now rags i'm sure i'd appreciate that 50 longest of
long door shad tell us your favorite slash best duel from star wars i will copy that
and prep it for the next time we see mr shad of yesterday
um and so this is when wolf jumped in so we got wolf wolf return of wolf huzzah wolf's back
how you doing wolf wolf is loving kana did you on the chat he came in we were doing this quiz that
was designed as like a efap law test and he was able to come in and work with me and rags to figure
out if we get all the right answers we got 21 out of 30 we got a couple wrong we were even
disappointed in ourselves for cool um first sc dumped my message been waiting such listening
for over 12 hours got another one two before sleep we'll catch rest on moolah don bless you
massives for a year of content and here's to many more years hi wolf um wolf what's your favorite
sword-like thing so glad to see you back on efap wolf manoga wolf having a pizza in order of wolf
with wolf's arrival my week has had a massive improvement thanks for coming on wolf i hope
things have started to get better for you holy fuck it's wolf so fucking good to see you here
man hope you're doing good and wish you a great time also high raggled hi they nailed it buddy
directly to wolf because we love him note taken um hey wolf hey rags hey mauler hello my phone
autocorrects rags to rags be well wolf release a video baller i'm craving it's coming it's coming
it's on the way that's the way to god it's gonna be good one is it it's my game of thrones season
episode five breakdown and it's i've been working on fucking ages and i'm very excited and anxious
to get it out but there's still more work to be done what is your opinion on watchman uh mauler i
need to watch it again because i used to like it a lot and from what i've keep hearing from people
is that it's a terrible movie and i was like oh god have i like oh it's not absolutely awful
it is not it is like oh mauler you have so much work to do do not waste your valuable time
watching that garbage watchman is great okay and i do not like snyder's dc new but watchman is great
see i used to really like watchman and the more i learn about zach snyder the less
uh i like i like i can't snyder the more i learn about snyder
no watchman is not trash and his opinion on watchman is trash
you guys should organize a debate over the watchman oh no this is me and we would be debating on
everything we would never get because jeremy is too thick-headed to ever admit that he's wrong
about a movie so he will never back down about watchman uh i will never subject myself to
wasting valuable hours of my life because we do not have that much time on this earth
so uh again mauler don't waste your time on it get your work done get episode
review of game of thrones out so i can watch it and then finish your force awaken stuff
and then work on something else and then work on other things and then maybe if you're dying
and you're on drugs watch watch dying on drugs noted there are lots there are much better things
like if okay if assuming everything you said is true which it may be because i can't remember
that film too well there are much better things to watch while you're dying and on drugs
like what jay jay you seem to be you seem to be the expert this regard details
would have been detailed but that bad then surely there are better things what is your
what is your problem with watch manana it's a horrible movie jeremy i watch it and i was like
these are i'm back i'm never going to get this image out of my head that was so worthless
oh remember to say and people spent money to
i just it's a again i can't speak to the adaptation nature of it but people that are
familiar with the source material say it's a great adaptation but just watching it from a
movie standpoint from a tone uh storytelling um from the acting from the structure i thought
it was fantastic and i haven't even seen the what i haven't seen the extended version
i have nothing about what i have more often heard it's a bad adaptation than it's a good
adaptation being completely honest it's really it's really different from the comic okay i can't
speak i can't speak very different okay i read it ages ago but like yeah it's not the same
okay bob uh i checked the stream on lunch and wolf is back good to see you man hope you're doing
better here's my tips so far tonight also hi bullshit oh yeah he was here as well help him
with the quiz uh take my money in honor of wolf that awesome man would also i'd like to
say hi rags but i blame mr rag for convincing me to become a patron of total dot episode 49 so
hi wolf ebola and mr bullshit that's a good choice funding the wonderful totaled as you
saw from his we covered him uh on the the end of the second piece and um glorious utterly glorious
just classic tonal uh wolf you reignited my love for reading mauler you helped me improve
my critical thinking and film analysis and rags i'm currently saving up to buy parts for pc happy
50th and here's to another 50 50 you massive thank you aj moon uh would love to read your
books sometime wolf hope you release it on amazon again sometime yeah maybe in the future we'll
have to see uh what he wants to do with it um please save remarkable reps aquaman video for wolf
i i'm okay with that um if if wolf would like to look at it who knows what the fuck he's gonna
argue in it uh i have to thank you more well sorry that's the sacrament as a conservative masterpiece
oh i mean such a good title for a video i was gonna say the potential is limitless
what could we assume that's about it's like well what wouldn't it be about um
uh i have to thank you more when tlj came out i was in a bad place and after leaving
i got really low if uh i wasn't at work i was in bed you helped me sort my thoughts on the matter
and cheer up thank you always long man no problem man if any of our work on youtube can do stuff
like that it's absolutely uh well it's something to take pride in it's like this is the stuff that
we're essentially just trying to be critical analysts in relation to stuff and so if it can
provide any kind of solace or catharsis for people outside of just informative um pieces
it's wonderful to hear so yeah uh thank you another five for our favorite wolf good to hear
you laugh again dude this is objectively the best episode now i'm so happy wolf was able to join
thank you maula wolf and the best guest rags for the many hours of memes critique and debates
no problem um er is korra net fucks death note there was actually a death note isn't um
i need i i think i had a video of someone saying the death note adaptation was good and i actually
meant to throw that at er because that would have been funny but it's always next time
that's wrong the adaptation was awful yeah that's typically a lot
no the movie is bad you don't have to compare it to the anime it's just bad on its own
wanting to hear more why you think supernatural should have ended by season five you briefly
mentioned it on efap where you were discovering the lonely i have bad things to say about
supernatural hey it is i don't think it's a well-written show like at all um characters
are extremely thin there's hardly any of them the the plot lines are extremely simplistic to
the point where you can cut most of the seasons away and you don't miss anything in terms of
progression because it's mainly a monster of the week story that's so cookie-cutter like
balls the shit out of me the second any uh tertiary characters become interesting like the dad
like gordon walker like um the two the mum and the the daughter they axed from the show
and i never understand why it's like oh i'm starting to care about it bye okay starting to
care about this about bye okay and then um the fact enjoyed the oh the two protagonist brothers
uh they don't they they die several times and there's like memes about how which one's gonna
die this season again shit like that i was like um the stakes yeah the stakes are like completely
fucked they built up to the devil and god in season five and then they were like oh no no no
there's even worse things than them called leviathans in season six they're like oh no no no
there's even worse things than that they're up to season 15 now like i don't understand how they
did that when they peaked with god um yeah so there's a lot of reasons i really don't enjoy
that show and um i found it hard not to compare it to buffy as well because they were released at
relatively similar times covering similar topics but buffy suffers in a lot of the production
values compared to supernatural like the special effects are way worse the sort of i want to say
the style isn't as clear in buffy compared to supernatural um they've got they're a lot cooler
as characters like the the whole eat hamburgers have a whole bunch of like guns in stock and they
just burst into towns and shoot the shit out of demons and whatever it's just like oh yeah so much
much more badass like buffy's writings through the roof compared that's my take hopefully that
makes more sense than nothing first season is too boring to get through that's my take you should
just watch episode one and the finale you wouldn't have missed anything seriously the all you miss is
the the catch up with the dad like halfway through the season then they lose them again
i enjoyed the monster of the week stuff the monster of the week stuff was really fun
and engaging and the only thing that carries that show is the chemistry between sam and dean
if if you didn't have that chemistry i don't think it would it would have the audience that
it has uh for all of these years but the nonsense i i i'm still in like season eight i just can't
finish i can't keep going because it's just it's everywhere it's all over the fucking place
but i like sam and dean so much i go so but like you gotta admit the amount of times they
learned the lesson of you were dad's favorite even though you left us and you were dad's favorite
even though you followed it one to one and that makes you frustrated that you blame us for the
problems that your girlfriend got killed you blame me for the family breaking apart they have that
same problem over and over again every time well there's a meme where it shows sam screaming dean
and then and then dean screaming sam and then it says literally every episode of supernatural
i was like that is so accurate sad the drama to me was super interesting the first like three
times they hashed that one out but when they kept doing i was like uh we've all been watching that
for 15 years let it die just let it crawl into a grave i did enjoy the first few seasons of the
monster of the week stuff was i i enjoyed that you know it was very enjoyable for me uh the first
few seasons after that it got really messy and like you said the stakes aren't there are
non-existent there's no stakes at all on this show nothing um wolf with hearts uh er objectively
makes the best videos on youtube i think there's an argument for that good to see uh you wolf hope
you're doing well glad to see you doing better wolf quick question for you how would you compare
the star wars ot to lord of the rings i think he takes lord the rings over star wars ot he does
love them both though um i get the distinct feeling that wolf is a big guy for me that's
an interesting super chat wolf this one's for you me and my friends yeah in order to make us
other ones like that she's like oh okay um wolf this one's for you me and one of my friends
are fans and hope you're doing better he's a bit of money to help you get well and take all the
time you need ps continue reading berserk i believe he is so there you go um extra chunky
slowneld milk we had we had er watch slowneld it was wonderful that sounds good um wolf and er
i love you noticed me i'm afraid they may not have noticed you uh when you posted that i said
this before but thank you guys for helping me with my work uh i've been working on this story for
years i'm on my fourth rewrite no matter how long it takes for me to finish this monster it'll be
thanks to all of you guys good stuff man glad we can help um hello all my masses could you please
wish my sister alia happy 20 something birthday and tell her she was an accident happy yeah
happy 20 something i like his 20 something birthdays like even more like oh 20 something
accident like okay
slice of dice indeed we stand silent er he wasn't silent for the whole thing you know
er and he speaks when he has something to say it's respectable um wolfenstein is what bug men
who listen to yid shapiro plays so they can destroy nazis and feel badass while their wives
get gangbanged next door what does that have to do with what we were talking about in the like
no you haven't looked at wolfenstein for a bit i'm pretty sure you know yes but
really i could could you just relate anything to anything would you have that
yeah uh why are we talking about like he has the the running gag is like he's a nazi so maybe that's
well it was from raw so oh yeah okay no that's all the inflation you should need it's from raw
why are we talking about wolfenstein borderlands three is coming out oh i thought the meme was
going to change too why are we talking about this spider butt is no longer coming out
mola please react to the death stranding trailers and the character clip for mama
i i don't care about death stranding i'm sorry oh but why i'll wait until someone tells me it's
amazing once it's out i'm so bored of mystical trailers that tell me nothing
uh i'm going to wake up for work and you beautiful bastards will still be streaming keep up the
amazing work and thank you for noticing me er senpai oh yeah silence is a great call back to
efap 33 that is very true that was foreshadowing in efap 33 set up and pay off um hi i'm part of an
indie film company that is finishing up a science fiction horror movie called space lock would be
cool to have you watch it when it's released even if you hate it i mean be careful what you wish
for man it's gonna say yeah i don't know you'd want that uh can't wait for 25 hour fap next
week love you wolf no we did that one already we passed 25 hours we're nearly up to 27 hours
oh christ we went a little little over screw um i'm with you till the end of the rainbow totaled
oh do any of you know that so i don't know the exact quote i think i did i did i write it down
i think i was watching for that i say i think i was watching for that i don't know why so like
you know the expression at the end of the day fucking totaled replaced day with rainbow and
he was like so at the end of the rainbow when you think about it's just like when you play it in
slow motion it's like so fucking funny at the end of the rainbow i need to re-watch that part
totaled's breed is on a level too high for any of us to comprehend absolutely
uh rainbow milk is what you pee after eating skittles makes sense to me hey er are you interested
in doom eternal i would guess no but i could be wrong on that one actually you ask him sweet at
him he might answer that one why wouldn't he be interested in doom internal well for the same
reason that anyone isn't interested in anything i don't know that i've ever seen him in any way
talking about you okay and i don't know if i've seen him in reference to video games much at all
either so i would i'd expect no but no living like he hates or anything
tonald is a pot of gold at the end of an artificial reign of bow
james oh yeah he just uploaded he ordered no tonald five reasons why many people are excited
for world of warcraft classic oh keep at it tonald you got this the developer of that
liked my another life video oh nice it was like really that was crazy i looked at it he was
horrified i looked at his bio he's like team leader for world of warcraft classic and i'm like
oh shit grums right yeah he's cool yeah um that's games the sponsor of long a sponsor of a long guy
hmm how much do i need to pay for an efap appearance we that's not so the the whole
reason james jumped on was because a super chat jokes that he could pop on for the 50th and so i
thought it would be funny if we just jumped him on we're not going to do any kind of like you could
pay to be on efap we're not we're not doing that it was just it was we thought it was a neat little
reference to the super chat that's all 50 pounds er play chaos head is this enough how about this
this enough stop it zach it's okay you don't just don't pay to come on here from the start to be
fair though i've been training my record so far is 38 hours yeah there's no way i'm gonna last that
long um let's hope it doesn't go that far hey mauler i'm gonna have to bounce off of here um
so i just want to tell you congratulations and uh you know it was nice talking with j
and weekend warrior and anna it's always fun to argue with you so um but i'm out to bounce
yeah no problem man thanks for uh hanging out as much as you did and it's been fun i'm sorry i
yeah i'm sorry i couldn't be on here more oh you'll there'll be plenty of opportunities in future
don't you worry did you take care i still didn't hear you anna it's okay still didn't hear you
i'll just i'm just trying to aggravate you now so anyway all right guys uh nice nice talking with
all of you uh bye chat jeremy doesn't have time for high council but he has time for efap uh can you
just kick me just to make the chat happy can you just kick me um oh i would never want to do that
you have to flee in terror
all right i'll see you guys later later bye take care good night and then then we're full
i mean theoretically it should speed up my my approach to super chats right that's how this works
i'll make sure it doesn't yeah uh thanks for coming on jeremy down to four uh we need some
fan out of james moore reaching into a fistful of dollars out to maulerags and wolven saying
shut up and take my money it's a possibility i'm sure people may be interested hey i responded to
just right's video on kora glad you guys have er to respond to it also screw core core the bipolar
bipolar nut bar i i had no idea that uh just right had made a video that was in defense of
legend of kora i thought that he was gonna do like an ironic defense i thought he was gonna be like oh
you know it may have been bad but what can we learn from it but no he advocates that it's
actually really well made well written is it that bad that like it's perplexing that anyone would
like it wait sorry what did you say is it like bad on a level that it's weird that someone would
try to defend it well i i haven't watched either show i only know from er's videos of
what fails about it what you could call the sequel series compared to the original but
um it was interesting watching him and theo who were both very aware of the show uh respond
to just write that that was that was a section of efap where i was essentially just uh playing
and pausing and listening rather than making arguments and stuff but uh yeah i don't i don't
i've only ever heard bad things about kora so outside of just right um wolf what do you think
of tools new oh he did answer that one uh bagidius wasn't a baguins he was gandalf's brother
right bagidius the bogman a lonely hermit who resides in the swamps of northern island he holds
the biggest of all ideas bagidius baguins should have slowneld's voice pay-per-view fight bagidius
this is me high cheeks sent me high rags bollard anyone else the the boba have any of you seen
yum fa's ds vids if you haven't i bet you like them i've not seen them
i'm gonna guess from that silence that no one else here has either no have not seen a thing
bagidius and me high cheeks sent me high would make an excellent collaboration i don't disagree
someone just left a super chat that just says sex is that a problem jay is that a problem
are you gonna leave jay no that's funny he gets pooped jay
uh i couldn't finish season one of kora man it was terrible a massive crap on avatar's legacy
yeah that's pretty much what i understood from eos videos like wow they they really didn't care
um it's like proto tlj stuff you know rags 24 divides into three groups of eight not four
yeah in fairness he was already running low on he was running on few maybe this was the end of
probably already had two beers at that point yeah that was maybe even just the one would be enough
dude jesus you know it's not even necessarily a bad trait it's much cheaper to go out drinking with
friends yeah i agree but it was fun to make fun of him yeah he uh it is more convenient
i would probably adopt it as a trait because it would mean you'd have to
not pay as much for alcatisms i was like that when i started drinking and i was like really
pleased because i was like oh it doesn't cost me much to actually go out drinking and then my
tolerance went up and i was like oh boo bye wolf i hope you get a great night's rest
i was going to play some witcher 3 but then i found this stream also bye wolf hope you stay
awesome may the dawn keep you no wolf don't go you're my favorite edward uh i had to wait
till payday to post this molar congrats on your big milestone you're a real inspiration to us all
hang in there mate you can make it give my deepest regards to wolf and i hope he gets
well soon um also rags also hi rags i'm sorry hi nailed it um oh is he yeah somebody said
he's still awake oh yeah hey folks can't reply to you all too many ha
my god he messaged me a few hours ago saying he's having trouble sleeping and that you
you could uh come back on but i was just like oh well we're still doing super chats we're still
doing super chat hi uh how you doing um yield to the fever for wolf's kitty geode theo saying
essays convey objective meaning is sexist because most essays these days are being written
by stupid emotional bitches studying sociology i wonder if you can guess who wrote that
money's on a rock i'll catch up on this later have some freaking buddy love y'all here's to
the future years of efapri uh going to have to catch most of this on replay thanks for a great
year of tism so glad wolf could drop in also hi rags hi he got it every time i just look at
the disco i'm like who's gonna jump on first if captain marvel had used the iron gauntlet
uh it would have saved tony stark's life also how are any of the relayers going to enter the
quantum realm um there's so much wrong with that part of endgame i don't even want to talk about
like when they're like captain marvel take the gauntlet into the back of the van that'll take
you through time when you don't have a suit and you have no idea what you're supposed to do with
those gems and you can't even take them to one time specifically and you can't come back
but it's captain marvel mauler but what what in the i would love to pause time and ask ant man
what the fuck the plan was like what did you expect was gonna happen where was she supposed
to go what was she supposed to do that's unbelievable and all you needed to do was have
it fly away just take the gauntlet fly away just get it away from thanos that was the main point
and then yeah that's anyway sage hayden's a pretty gay name biggidius baggins uh mauler and rags what
do you think about yachtsi crowshore and zero punctuation um i'm not sure rags would disagree
with this take but that uh yachtsi is very entertaining and quite witty not always great
in terms of a breakdown of a video game but i'm not sure that's the intention with his videos it's
mostly just to have some fun he's got like the same approach in in the same vein as cinema sins
but i think he's much more talented than cinema sins um that's not difficult i know also efap
law should be split into three ages the age of jared the age of tonald and the age of the dawn
yeah i guess but the thing is the age of tonald is simultaneously running with the age of the
dawn uh this vid is the gay i don't think we should name an age after jared anymore no
if you can go with like the dark times something yeah sure um this vid is the gay will help joseph
mangle baggins did you did you see that jay we got another one of them just right he was like uh
you know a film is like an essay or story is like an essay this reminds me of of german
philosophers of the 19th century it's like no no no you didn't even say this reminds me i was like
to talk about legend of koro you have to talk about this philosopher i'm like what no
no have to where the bingo sheet has come from um the the the video essay bingo sheet uh
yeah guy has been watching since the beginning first time donating
congrats on the 50th stream i'll be watching this later when i'm not at a bar loll
won't be watching this now as i'll save it for listening material at work
but glad to finally catch one live so i can donate have a good stream massives
thank you uh do you understand that people listen to this at work
i think that's that's yeah that's it's how i listen to a lot of podcasts
of yeah i listen to people at work yeah makes sense i do and i i like that we can
be that level of entertaining honestly just enough to help work go by or like long drives
and stuff that is absolutely like i used to listen to podcasts that way well obviously i still do
it's just that um different podcasts at different times depending on where i'm going or what i'm
doing it's just that uh to provide that that for people is awesome like hey i do that too
i'm listening at work right now look from ryan brack
how would you pronounce that jay uh what i don't see it above er saying an
unbridled praise in the way wait why did you say that ryan
i don't think that's how it's pronounced i think that's exactly how it's pronounced
and if it's not then it is now also only have about two hours left
i don't do this we're getting there um to understand the epip stream we must first
visit the works of ancient youtube philosopher jara genesis it's probably better not to um he's
a weird here's a weird coincidence i just had my first ever night shift during which i got zero
sleep cool oh fuck because we're going into the fucking irony thing everything to just write
is irony and uh we got to the point making a meme we were like your child pulls milk into their
cereal bowl how ironic like what i'm not following just like it's ironic uh honestly aside from being
a source of fans shameless pairings fan arts and fan fictions i can't see what the merit of legend
of kora uh i can't see what is the merit of legend of kora also hi er um oh everyone's asking
to kick you again jay what have you done i don't know was it that you failed to pronounce that
person's name possibly you should know better than not do that someone asked me to kick you
irony yeah yeah somebody said irony so full circle
four years me to kick me the four years i spent in an ivy league around people who say this shit
were the dumbest years of my life uh people who talk like that should be beaten into dust and
chucked off rooftops rah yep rah british nerds who talk like this guy should have their rights taken
away and should be thrown into a prison and executed there should be a game of two rah's in
a row you can see you can realize it's a rah super chat quickest so like the first person to say rah
on a rah super chat wins but if you say rah on a non-ra super chat then you get penalized uh
hi rags hello james moore hi theo hello er dr mar and luther pepe just saying hi to everybody
at the time i think very kind saying hello back uh theo baby nice pfp baby tell him who it's from
mole daddy and theo drink more barbit barbiturates bobs and barbiturates bobs and nose theo he would
have been well they have lots of inside jokes and you know when you when you're having to keep track
of your own 1000 inside jokes from a podcast and you got other ones to do it's like oh
much overload brain melt been awake for how long now 20 it was one o'clock plus five hours 29 hours
all right hopefully only be 31 at maximum instead of legend of kora go watch madoka magic magicker
instead that's fun 21 legend of um instead of chinese cartoons watch
back in monogatari i think i've not before yes because that's not a chinese cartoon
um the virgin referencing inaccessible 4000 page tomes written by dead losers versus the
chad beating the suge out of anyone who disagrees with him
that was from rah but i don't know if you could have guessed that one
oh yeah uh my first super chat you guys my first super chat you guys are awesome you
get me through the day at work thank you for all you do and all hail the toxic brood also high rags
hi hey all three of you this time nice uh i actually had an english teacher teach the
difference between poetic justice versus that just sucks well that would be useful for just
right i'd imagine that just rags is that grenade story based on a personal experience
is he referring to the um the block nades what was the what was the grenade story rags has
um i don't know i wasn't there so yeah um i think it would be ironic if it were made of iron
uh got him irony is using words and terms non-literally
i was gonna say that i don't i don't know about that it's a metaphor
i don't want to rehash we we had loads of back and forth about irony i was like enough irony
blowing himself up with a grenade rags had a story about blowing himself up with a grenade
oh about the he was he was doing references about irony i guess but i don't think he actually blew
himself up probably not that who knows oh yeah um so if theo changed his pf piece that it's the
same as the background he blew himself up in alien colonial marines but not oh but that wasn't like
with a grenade that was a grenade launcher thing and like what does more like more like yes what
do grenade launchers launch the well there's a difference between a grenade you pull the pin on
and the grenade launched from a grenade launcher i don't i don't refute that but what do grenade
launches launch i didn't refute the grenade launches launch grenades
well that's so we're at a standstill i suppose you repeated that that's not what they were talking
about because it was a grenade launcher well there are more than one type of grenade jay
what's the next super chat mom
a grenade like weapon exactly grenades just a weird kind of stick anyway
uh so if theo changes pfp so it matches the same background for my phone mine came first
what does that mean clearly theo is interested in you bopson wants you to make the first move
um irony equals the deflection of expectation
a lot of definitions floating around for irony i guess in these super chats
when people mean poetic justice when they say irony that's that's probably applicable a lot
of people would use one when they mean the other when they're thinking about it you guys analyze
videos by pausing them ironic uh-huh i was thinking about that for a second i was like
no no but i guess he's being um facetious because that's probably what just right would say
he's saying it ironically this is what you get when you have a generation of students raised
on writing five para essays where they need to use a required amount of buzzwords saying
do things just like the thing under the thing i was from raw yeah i i competed oh wow really
good stuff wrong i completely agree with that one no anti-semitic shit good job um so guess what
with that super chat we have now entered into the third of the three streams
oh hell yeah the beginning of this 10 hour stream we are now there
uh there's only 10 hours to go here we go good morning my massive sweethearts good morning here
we go ladies and gentlemen the final stretch regardless of what anyone says you're all heroes
to me you're taking this stream in stride mauler nice of you guys to keep me company on my 21st
birthday happy first to efap and hopefully we can celebrate this many more times i spent
most of the day enjoying my first legal booze but thank you nonetheless oh hey cool um that's just
uh imagine having to wait until 21 to drink well this is the thing i remember when i was watching
community and um they made a whole episode around a character reaching age 21 to finally drink and i
remember being like whoa i completely forgot that was how it works over there it's like three years
ago i started drinking you guys got a thingy but they get to drive earlier than us right
yeah yeah and i don't think that's a great decision either
they should flip them it's like i should do it backwards flip them like both of them being
18 is fine i forget they do it 17 in the uk oh right yeah i guess yeah don't flip them yeah no
i agree uh it's fun to to compare the cultures because you could literally just 14 you could
move 14 when you're um when you're 18 as an american you could move to britain like for two
years and drink in those two years and then come back to american is illegal again like oh fuck so
you you can you can do that in germany for four years the drinking age is 16 nice
the strange world we live in the theme of that
um congrats on 50 you masses you've made my whole year better a round of rhino milk on me
happy birthday stephan give this money to stephan who's who's stephan who's stephan
what oh because the stephan was the super chat guy who said it's his 21st birthday
the other super chat said give this money to stephan i don't know how to do that
uh efap 50 i wasn't gonna touch congrats you bastards i mean well the thing is that it was
two euros which gets cut down into like 1.3 euros so yeah if you get in contact if you want to get
the stephan donated 20 dollars like you'd only held on to a dollar and then stuff you wouldn't
have had on it just donate like a couple less dollars and it all works out just go back in time
and do that donate minus two dollars
um efap 50 i was there congrats you massives happy anniversary efap also hi rags
hi there you go mola have you seen the dragon prince no it's a netflix show that is written
and produced by the head writer of avatar aaron ehas does is er aware of this is it a good or a
bad tism don't know yes uh we all know that they changed starfire dc to a black actress but could
it be that they just didn't want an orange person depicted in positive light you know i would have
guessed that was a ra but it's not it's a bobsled one oh and uh kyberkin said check my discord uh
we i i am on i am on point with that like i said i might after the stream need sleep and then um
i'll be able to to interact uh all right my dudes here's a five a few massive efforts also could you
guys efap on the 16th of september why maybe it's his first day oh but wouldn't you want to hang out
with the family what happens yeah i would yeah maybe so family then parsley then efap to wind
down yeah wind up wind down jay i mean like just stop
it'd be really funny if mauler collapses on his desk from sleep deprivation with a large audible
thump and the stream continues without him not fun at all that's a bad i sell good rat for you
congrats on the stream i mean yeah we did it we're a little we've overshot a little bit
like is this we've overshot by three hours now over overshot a little again there still still
under budget of of the 12 hours still pull this off hey rags what's your favorite cw mccoll song
i will copy that and we will ask rags it on the next episode as long as i remember to do so
um the hardest part of creating my vision of the marvel intro is making bodies for everyone who's
just ahead my favorite is full body wolf asked the meme repository about one of the
intros the marvel thing of which we're brilliant and thank you so much for giving a um a very
suitable intro for this uh 50th celebration thank you meme suppository he's so good no don't call
him that uh thank you for the billions of hours of entertainment i just wanted you guys to know
that you've all inspired me to go to college for creative writing keep inspiring and thank you for
helping me realize my dream billions of hours of entertainment though i mean maybe he watched it
yeah like again and again 17 000 monitors playing them all at once so they can all double up
several several times yes a bit more than double i said double up several times
and several can refer to anything more than two
you got him i think jay back me up the gates jay what i was distracted by someone in chat saying
jay tell maul on my joke and being not like not with no contexts like i was about to say actually
i had missed the reference he's saying the 1.2 billion which i don't know if anyone really
jay knows it there we go i was um i saw i caught the end of part two i think and i've been here
since the start of part three oh jay of tonal i know i've been at 10 hours fucking hell
yeah and you were there for the first was it four hours you made it two was a six
six oh i was i was been here a while yeah it'd probably be it would go me then rags than you
for top times very impressive yes you've drank a lot of milk in prep for this didn't you
i mean i'm i'm training my length uh take more of my birthday shackles also thanks for ruining
the dark night for my naive a star ruining the dark night when was it bad did we did we ruin
the dark night doing dark night rises we did kind of rip into dark night rises
yeah hey rags building a second pc for emulation what gamecube games should i start with
oh oh you don't need rags for that uh you should get super mario sunshine smash brothers mealy
simpson's hit and run um metroid prime
surely basically any zelda game that's on gamecube surely building a pc that can emulate a gamecube
is more expensive than getting a gamecube depends if it's on ebay it might be like super expensive
wait did you just say it's more expensive to emulate a gamecube than it is to buy a gamecube
no but they said they were building a pc specifically to do it
oh well yeah they actually said building a second pc for emulation that's interesting
maybe it's a low-end pc i don't know but i will say though is that buying a gamecube is
quite the same as emulating one because you'll get a way better picture by like boosting
resolution and a bunch of other hacks rather than like fucking hell have you seen what a
gamecube looks like these days like when you put it up into a screen it's just a cube yeah
shit's a cube like graphics wise you mean yeah yeah like you could emulate yeah sorry i was
emulating jack and daxter on my pc um and by default it it opens up with like its original
resolution and you have to like full screen it to make it go bigger and it was like a tiny little
window in the middle of my screen i was like shit that i used to play at this resolution like
is that normal it was oh yeah i had a few moments like that
oh it was i squinting when i was playing these games back in the day it's like whoa
child eyes are much more forgiving than adult eyes clearly um can't stay for the whole show
what do you say sorry children can be absolutely fucking brutal
just like you know the most likely person to like be be in like a completely public place
and point at like say point at some dude and be like that guy's really fat is a child
yeah oh right yeah sure i was confused for a second i was like brutal to a gamecube
child will fuck up your gamecube fuck you gamecube what do you know it's like oh
don't stay for the whole show have some money anyway give wolf our regards hope he comes back
but if not tell him thanks for the laughs will do uh glad you enjoyed efap the movie the prologue
oh yes the combo of what was it halo mass effect and hitler um
it was the pillars of efap yeah it's like naturally you halo mass effect to hitler yeah
i was like i don't know do you watch knock the week yes it sounds almost like the if this is
the answer what is the question round right yeah it's just like things that don't seem to batch up at
all um finally had time to send super chat thank you for liking my goliath king of the
masses drawing man there was so much great drawings for art this stream did you did you
who was in that i've always already forgotten who exactly was into each section there's lots of
stuff did you see any of it j because there's a couple ones always who would have referenced you
um i was here for the first meme rounds but i'm not sure i saw everything yeah i mean well it's
all there um i just got sent a really cool drawing up to us there cool there's so many
cool drawings it was insane and cool videos cool everything um hey so glad you liked my meme
oh it looks like this is when we covered the memes that would make sense wow i just jumped
and say hello and i see hitler coincidence man i can't wait to catch the videos later on mula
the memes the memes there was a lot of memes um i've been here since i woke up at 9 a.m est
but now i must say good night efap has kept me happy through some hard times earlier this year
and has told me more about writing stories than college has wow cool um it feels like it's been
in my life forever and the lore is sort of like greek mythology and my stories wolf showing up
was great by the way i'll stop being a bundle of sticks now and say i'm proud to call you my
massives oh what a wonderful message hope you had a good sleep oh yeah that's one of the ones i
haven't shown on stream yet but i was uh i'll be getting around it was another one that was like
that uh but you just posted must sleep yeah i think this artist keeps submitting a lot of stuff
um must sleep work in five hours go on without me okay guy we got it thanks for not giving me
notification about this youtube can't trust youtube with those sorts of things
what is happening on screen right now oh that's probably when i get it unless that's right if
if the efap plate is up that means there's nothing important for you to see don't worry guys so this
i went to the person's profile who drew that and it's all like the things they draw anime titties
anime titties anime titties anime titties me anime titties it's not a bad thing jay
oh no it's it's fine it's i'm fine you're in between anime titties so
like that's a that's a great place to be yeah exactly uh ryan johnson said just said he honored
the ot by subverting tlj claims the ot went in new directions so the characters gave them new
emotions i gave them new emotions ryan johnson just said he honored the ot by subverting tlj
claims no this is no there's no grammar so he honored the ot he honored the ot by subverting
tlj claims the ot went in i don't know how to read this i'm gonna no actually um i'm gonna post this
in discord jay give it a will i might just be really tired if you can't do it i can't do it
i can't read you know this give it a shot i said he honored the ot by subverting
the last jedi claims the ot went in new directions for characters
wait we can just google ryan johnson honoring the old trilogy like i like i like the idea that when
he says uh gave them new emotions it's not like emotions they hadn't felt before it's like unique
but the brand new emotion oh oh wait wait you don't feel happy you feel sloppy
wait wait i'll i'll send something on discord
or is this what this is referencing then i'm assuming so yeah you see that the indie wire thing
i don't see anything in there wait wait sorry this where is it did i see okay
just just just a bit the tension is killing me
uh where is it where's the discord okay there it is discord uh desktop capture yeah
it should be uploading oh there it is yeah i honored the trilogy by subverting it
i honored the trilogy by sub we've been hearing that for the past billion years about his the fads
of his work anyway so why is he still talking about the shit has he not moved on i know spider
man came out man yeah and then he went back in back in yeah here we go wait i'll copy paste
something yeah now writer director ryan johnson has a response he took risks in order to pay homage
to george lucas's original trilogy it's all about moving the story forward i think i could
have sworn he's i've heard that from him before moving yeah but this is uh yeah but this is a
new article remember remember the quote he says that something like uh star wars had to evolve it
had to change to remain relevant i think that was one of the earliest quotes he had about justifying
the nonsense i think he yeah it's bad good for you ryan you nailed it uh ryan ryan it is ryan
it's not ryan ryan ryan i just do not be reeing at that poor man what do you do to you apart from
destroy an entire franchise shut up vote for me for better efap also high rags hello yeah stop
doing efap so often only up to episode nine oh my god hang on this person hang on i'm just
thinking what i must be in this person's mind oh yeah shit they were like why is j is the
is me a villain even though it's me i'm i'm now cold something else with a different picture
that's true but anyways guys your videos are basic molar molar and have my babies please j
oh i mean i'll think about it there you go donate for froggold done um uh-huh you get to read out
my chat twice what he got you there again i don't follow what you have to read it twice read it
twice but but that would be falling into his trap read it twice but that would be i would be playing
into his hand why would i do that because they've left your super chat yeah it says you get to
let me say i order you to it wait it says they get to it it says you get to what is it is this
from rah no it's just robust rouge rouge rouge it says you it says you get to what well there's
a whole bunch of elements to this um i'm sorry what was that what it simply was uh providing
me the option to repeat that's all and i was just curious as to you know well yeah okay fair enough
hey molar any chance that we the chat can join in on the star wars out at nine debate with it oh
yeah we can do that we can do a straw poll when we get close to the movie releasing to see what
chat think will be the most inconsistent character it's a good idea do one like for the next dream
well i mean i think we'd better be closer to the to the film so that it's like a big buildup you
know i'm excited for another trailer already like it's been a while yeah i guess we should
be getting one soon right because this film's out in four months yeah uh you know this this
weekend because it's d23 oh yeah so there's supposed to be a real DeLorean stuff
they've released a new poster for the Mandalorian it looks neat i hope it's good
um fifty dollars for fifty efaps sounds about right thank you molar and co for all that you
do and thank you to the toxic brood for your evolving doors of memes top three personal
favorite community memes the dawn tonaled and massive excellent choices um you guys bring so
much joy into my life seriously genuinely et al thank you also hi rags you're beautiful
hey efap crew got a guest guy who got married and watched efap at his wedding here the wife
is leaving me sadly what really rip i don't know i don't know what to say about that i'm
guessing it it's all right it follows up with saying thanks for not leaving me efap y'all really
help i don't know if that's serious that's really sad you're welcome oh mr imagine the priest going
uh time to kiss your wife sir please put your phone away
just like uh milk this is f's in the chat
um yeah i don't want to react to that i'm assuming i don't know is it a joke i i hope
it's a joke i don't know i'm sorry if that's if that happened that sucks um uh this better be
the new norm for efapping time no this is a special occasion if she won't stay for efap she's
not worth it that's right that's that's correct you know that's objective yeah it's because he
watches too much efap the hardest choices require the longest wills
me high cheek said me high never hurt for this log from smiling oh this is when rags losses by
door the beams i think can you fellas watch a video called hot doctor pepper it's so damn good
i don't know i don't know the world war trilogy watch dreg
dread dreg j uh eg yeah he's a good yeah he's funny i watched that that was hilarious
uh it's great to start my birthday it's great to start my business well shuttle
i was like it's really weird to hear like people here know who he is because he's like
a small channel that i don't think has any association association to efap j reg drag
well get him on he's great
you're actually trying to figure out what the word is some people have asked shrek
drag like j r e g drag oh drag drag yeah junior track yes yeah junior egg yeah that works
uh junior get him on he's really funny yeah he's funny man i agree i'm okay with it i'm on board
i'm not against it it's great to start my birthday with the ongoing 24-hour efap take these shackles
my good n words oh how are we doing we got an hour and a half left can i do it let's i'm gonna
have to speed it up a bit hey you massives hi rags hi greetings from germany i timed my
vaccination vacation to coincide with this stream
and so far i've made it through the whole thing here's to the final stretch
wait wait we're getting there um this is so mikey is wondering if that star wars
girl is single and ready to mingle i can confirm that is not the case
i was gonna say something i guess not
cj is a great school teacher invite net historian
that's his story maybe internet oh internet story yeah yeah requested a lot yeah he's
a lot of money i mean i'm not against it again it's like if i'll try and sort out at some point
uh good morning you massives i'm off to work good morning toxic brood
um question if you dress like an anime cat girl are you a fairy or a cosplayer
both i guess it's both at that point love you all and thank you for the the year
no problemo risk is better than monopoly get on my colonizer level plebs
uh i probably agree with that i don't like monopoly
monopoly ruins friendships i haven't played risk so i don't know um i missed wolf for something
as stupid as sleep it it happens if that's all the millennium falcon ride is you might as well
buy a vr headset and have access to a lot of different games and experiences well what if
you're blind can't use vr then fucking jib still had taught me that
jib sterling it's so random it's true though go to the this is how this stream started
go all the way back to part one yep i will have to check i will have to check uh anna since you're
on like tony did with peter parker in infinity war can you officially night mauler and rags as
members of the fandom menace anna anna please anna anna night though i wonder if anyone will get
that reference um someone probably will somewhere anna has someone on this planet might um i don't
know what it is i'd like to think we're honorary members already but we will we will have to make
sure we go through the proper channels in order to have that uh completed captain's log it's been
20 hours sadly only four left as one of the only what i was gonna say that's actually a pretty i
guess there was a different time where there was four left yeah but now it's also four of us yeah
it's kind of relevant now creepy uh about that jay could have watched lord of the rigs twice by now
and and watch the japanese dub also yes uh here's the your the the funny thing is
i was thinking about watching it so that i could announce that i had watched it on here
i feel like oh that'll be a fun thing to do on on any feb anniversary thing uh and then uh i was
like and then it transpired that wolf probably wasn't gonna be on it i was like hmm it was
really mostly for wolf so then i didn't and then he was on it oh unfortunate well you still have
until if fap 100 jay so yeah one hundred i promise that i will watch the lord of the rings
by if fap 100 which essentially gives me a year i was about to say are you sure you want to go
that far you might not make it i don't know how you've gone this long in your life without watching
yeah that's amazing i've seen it it's pretty good oh um there was there was a super chat that was
asking whether uh you you whether you would night myself and rags as members of the fandom menace
i mean that's up to you guys on if you want to but i mean i don't
know how invested you guys are and all that pretty honest answer i have no idea what even
entails i didn't know if there was a process or not just like there's a handbook i mean you
kind of just express interest and then to be and then everyone just kind of like okay cool as long
as you're not a dick i guess i mean okay well i have to i have to tell you a joke now because
this guy is he needs to chill out do it um i've seen i've seen his chats a couple of times and
i've just figured out that he's the guy who was like jay can you tell them all of my joke okay
and it is is it ironic that all you people that all oh shit i've butchered it sorry this is why
you don't get me to read things out is it ironic you of all people would run a 20 uh fuck
third time's a charm jay you got this jay you got this is it ironic you of all people would run
long on a 24-hour stream there you go that was the joke what that's the joke yes so like like
so there's a 24-hour plan stream and i run it long like you get it because of course i would
longman yeah i got it where's where's the joke how could you say that it was so it was so well
written was he being ironic uh ironic ironic okay completely different thing
uh as one of the only pineapple americans ocean man take me by the hand also high regs
hi still got it going today has been awesome thanks for the entertainment you guys so
great what time do we start again tomorrow no so also high regs tomorrow now so we've already
started today's stream that's true um hasn't watched lord of the rings doesn't know ed ed
and eddie does this guy not have a childhood i have a childhood but it's like it's like jack
and daxter and fucking other things it's a great series i never played the third one i ordered it
like a month ago because i was like i want to finally play that and it never showed up and i
was sad uh i didn't make it through the whole thing but i did start at the beginning and fell
asleep with it playing directly in my ear giving me strange fap dreams throughout the night oh
comb could be from the early days of your animated faces in vids the uh cartoon man
possibly possibly thank you so much for this year mauler rags wolf and everyone who helped
after this stream i'm going to limit how much time i watch youtube and try to focus on my own
terrible analysis videos wonderful get going make some shit for it out there um i get out of the
shower and i immediately tune in to see what's going on and all i hear is long distance uh
pedophilia yep everything checks out oh i think i think i know is that from ron i
i think i don't might be referencing yes i think i don't know i remember that i remember that
so what did you do yesterday i guess that is a funny kind of chat to have it's all recorded
and online that's what i did yesterday i just wanted to give you money keep on trucking my n
very kind are y'all still going absolute best boys and gals we're gonna say jay you woke up
yesterday and you're approaching a respectable time to go to bed today approaching yeah yeah
yeah well i mean six days already kind of like that would lead me to probably waking up at a
reasonable time because i'm gonna sleep for a while like four four a.m like no i can normal
day if you want to sleep at sunday morning um he never wakes again this was an amazing and an
honor to be on the podcast for the time i was thank you for your hard work and enjoyment i now
quietly listened to the end that's right james more no problem james um thank you um objectively
the best efap ever also high rags hi hi hi it's adorable that we've gone to that point you know
so it's a it's for everyone now bang that sexy unicorn ghost rub that horn i know exactly where
this is now it's when it's when the piperman visited us uh so you know where you're up to
in super chats the piperman is slash was reading tingle now slash then yep the the super chat is
letting us know that's where we are this is a stream intended for children it is not a stream
intended for children yeah he wouldn't have claimed that i doubt that oh god pikeman stop
it's officially the blessed pikeman at length is a scary thought i don't think i've been this
uncomfortable in a long time i lasted over 15 sorry it just was a green um uh i lasted over 15
hours and i love pikeman but i'm out degenerates and froggits deserved this is ras saying this
oh ras said he's out because of the degeneracy goodbye ras okay here i am
6 30 getting ready for work and listening to gay unicorn erotica well done gentlemen
happy birthday efap it's been a fun year of tismaria memes and gay old times been here since
the beginning and can't wait to see where it goes enthralled to be a part of this hateful toxic
brood love you all massively and here's to the next year of autistic pain oh so was it
was it the efap's birthday yesterday then yes today it is no longer the birthday
um oh and c molnar production said i got your toy story reference i think i don't know if he's the
only one who picked it up but thank you yes excellent one where i said i wonder if anyone
in the world would get the reference um y'all need jesus foxes most of all i'm not gonna disagree
with that sexual harassment uh are chuck tingle books recommended for older gentlemen
quite possibly what a massive efap jesus needs efap jesus needs
thank you for letting him finish his story mauler oh of course it was you can't let someone get that
far and not finish you know it'll be cruel um awesome story foxes fluffies everywhere just came
satisfied rags i'm pretty sure rags very much enjoyed it uh you know naturally so it was a
wonderful story foxes having given new meaning to the term unicorn milk always happy anyway happy
50th efap so glad i listened to this one in the wee hours of the morning hello robert head robert
head film robots head robot heads yes oh he was very nice he was we we got around a whole bunch
of the guests luckily nice robert head give all to robert head and make most hours videos please
i will make a note um i think he probably will too he'll make more star wars stuff give him time
when you come back from a break and the blessed pipeman is reading gay unicorn erotica you know
you're in the right place yes also hi rags hi oh i'm pretty like pretty good at that and rah came
back to say i i think figuring this out he's trying to say it wasn't funny it was degeneracy
it was ironic so it's so funny guys haha he said at least i'm not boring oh that's true
poor foxes man driving was boring i mean really uh here's another super chat so
rah definitely isn't though hmm here's another super chat so the stream doesn't end
we're i've got it going well an hour and 20 minutes i'm i i feel like i'm gonna make it
uh i waited all day for pipeman to join i feel exactly how i did after watching batman versus
superman tlj and endgame oh look me in the eyes and tell me you're ironical congrats on 50 episodes
of efap cheers for all the humorous hours also hi rags hi um why are you talking about spiderman his
funeral is coming out oh man oh no happy anniversary again mauler rags wolf the toxic
brood stands with you uh thoughts on code geass eureka seven or gundam zero zero uh i liked code
geass i thought there was a bits and bobs of tismy writing but if there was a cool world of cool
characters and i don't know the others anyone else got any perspectives odd any of those
and what was the thing what was i like the geass so that's it all right code geass eureka seven
and gundam zero zero those aren't real words just because you don't understand english doesn't
mean it's not real is it geese an english concept or or something like geese geese i'm sorry gay
yes geese is an english concept yeah my bad the concept of geese
so before the english came up with it yeah
code geese anyway mauler what's next super chat uh sorry
sorry i missed you wolf i made a firewall video for you i do hope you see it eventually
anyway heading to work massives happy 50th oh hi mark have a good one hi mark um this one from
ryan bush says adder are you all right apparently she is i think this was just after voxus had
finished his story which you managed to survive yeah that um there are many ways to have described
it with and um less i think you were you were reserved in your choices and uh that's that's
respectable box this is aware that you know his content well not his content his his choice of
chuck tingle stories aren't for everybody i believe the first time he came on efap he read the the
glazed donut one that was um that was something uh hey everybody wondering what people's thoughts
on game to film adaptations are whenever you think they could thrive eventually what game would you
like see in the film format soma maybe she is jay has a whole video on this i do it's a 40 minute
video responding to cosmonaut uh i think it's called like why video game movies can work or
something and i and i don't think i disagreed with anything in your video so someone could
subnautica and fallout subnautica is my favorite subnautica would make a fucking awesome movie
if it was done right fortunately i i don't have to explain how you do it right because i've got
a whole video about it um and yeah just quickly soma probably could work as a film i think
to a degree there's a couple of other ones um i feel like uncharted could probably translate
to a film pretty easily portal could be cool maybe is it fun to watch people solve puzzles
no i wouldn't have it be a one-to-one just like a person does puzzles that's the story but
it what would you do jay like like actual puzzles that make pictures or like
no like the puzzles like in a puzzle game that is portal oh i don't know what that is
annie you should play portals great
um play will meet again by virilin over its public
you mean just in general or like behind certain conversation do you want to replace aloe vera
music i'm not sure but i don't know hey you weirdos thanks for a year of bastardry antisms
send my love to wolf because he's a good wild doggo and sleep tight when this is over mauler
where i believe we're out approaching that possibility another hour i think might be
nearing it so you guys are still gonna be streaming in 10 hours when i get home from work
right i'm not sure when that was sent so maybe um i feel bad for the skeleton in the closet now
that i'm not sure who's skeleton that's referencing outside of like
gared had a skeleton i don't think he was in a closet though he was on the outside
oh if the skeleton's in the closet you don't know it's there true love all you
massives but not jay also hi rags hi love you jay also hi rags hi hey rags
together we are rags yes i remember you recommending oblivion i was wondering if
you've seen the trailer for sky oblivion um i will pop that in future questions for rags i've
not even heard of that does anyone know what that is it's sky oblivion they put the oblivion in sky
room i think from does it look like it gonna be good is it a mod yeah i think so you can just
check it out i don't know happy 50th 100 should be lord of the rings watched together with jay
well no that would be breaking his deal he said he'd get it done before then
yeah i think during counts as no jay's done a blood oath can't get out of it blood oath
wait they never said that has to be watching them for the first time
they never said it had to be a blood oath you guys lied to me uh just kidding love you too jay
also hi anna hi um was that gay porn story part of the unicorn store extended universe
awesomely also hi rags the unicorn store is a part of that that that story is extended
universe and hi um happy 50th efap you massives thank you very much take this money and review
stuckman's blade runner one video on efap want to hear you and friggy's reaction live
i don't want to like he's so it's such a silly video because he's basically just telling you
he kept watching it until he liked it it's such a like oh chris it will probably cover chris
tuckman one day we just need something particularly like evocative of all of the the worst elements of
his format and probably covering something that we're both familiar with and when i say
both i mean me and fringy but obviously it didn't have it wouldn't have to be me and fringy and
it'll be me and anybody um hi everybody what are your thoughts on sin city
i like it the movie i'm referring to obviously
because i've read the graphic novel what about you guys like the movie
i've seen it what i mean why are you shocked about that yeah yeah yeah i heard it was i heard
it was bad what the first one is good the second there's a second yeah you're talking about the
spirit or sin city too is there a sin city no i i heard the sin city is bad and that's well
i was gonna say that's why i haven't seen it i heard it's bad and also i haven't seen it
i like watching bad movies or sorry which one the first one and the second one i haven't seen either
uh i i've seen both i really like the first one i remember finally finding the second one meh
yeah so yeah i don't know i wish there was more interesting things to say but there's
yeah they seem neat i don't know how they work uh on the adaptation side of things though
geode milk makes you hard on the outside and beautiful on the inside
okay yeah found you guys through mauler guesting on nidrotik been listening since ifav has helped
me through many all night programming sprints happy 50th thank you loquacious primate glad to
hear it uh hello anna here's some money for you your videos are great that was ten dollars i will
try and get that through to you at a i guess super chat to get back i've told people
it's far better to just super chat directly to the person because youtube takes a cut
but some people just you know it's fine we'll just do it this way regardless um joker is officially
rated r for strong bloody violence disturbing behavior language and some sexual images even
more hyped for this film i mean yeah yeah i mean there's no joker it should be rated r
that's cool i'm on board i'll check it out um indeed rags i didn't know the true significance
of our god the dawn when i hailed him first but from now on i shall remember his holy
might not 100 sure what that's referencing exactly but all right invite anna more when it
comes to star wars her knowledge about law is awesome she made arguments i've mere heard before
i've mere heard before really heard before i think by the way hi anna hey there uh hi mauler
what hi mauler what is the as the is as was the is as yes i don't know copy paste that into the
discord it's exactly what i just said yes i can copy and paste it for you there you go
one million dollars worth of cocaine was found in banana boxes in washington stores check your
bananas for cocaine or you'll go full tony montana all right yeah suggesting that i didn't
already check my bananas for cocaine cocaine cocaine cocaine cocaine uh thank you massives
for one year and 50 episodes of efap here's to another great year of tisms the dom would be
crowned round oh my brain is like was that wrong it's like yes that was wrong
crowned uh hi rags the dawn would be round hi hi rags is a bad puppy for drinking and not eating
yeah he probably he may have felt better if he'd eaten stuff i don't know if he did he might have
i don't know he said he didn't i hope he sound asleep right now getting his recuperation tisms
uh the longer you go the more super chats you get this was right after you read the one hour
the hour one message oh we've made a lot of progress then with so the one i've just read
was sent when we read the hour one jesus christ i feels like a lifetime ago now too
it's a 48 hour stream if we keep super chatting lads mauler we're fixed which is a quote for
rags apparently um the double dollar seriously though thanks whole thank you for one year and
50 episodes of you massives messing around in the best way possible praise the cosmic chicken
tall man bad skittle superior um yes no well skittles are superior to the the uh any mmm that
has nuts in them and that's like oh i agree with that i don't like no mms no they're awful but
unlike the fact that they exist pushes no no dude we got biscuit biscuit m&m's below skittles
biscuit m&m's are even cooler so they get like the they they can make up for the peanut ones
they're biscuit m&m's do you guys not have those ones they're like they're just m&m's but instead
of a chocolate center they have like a biscuit center is your definition of a biscuit oh um
this is gonna be difficult because i don't have the right i don't know how to explain it's like
it's like when when british people say biscuit they mean cookie like basically everywhere else
in the world peanut m&m's are evil crunchy m&m's does that make more sense yes that's probably
that's what i meant uh check out mocello zuniga's tlj video skip five minutes oh that's specific in
all right um bionic brain only part you can't replace that's the challenge accepted you if you
replace the brain you might end up not being the same person but hey why not also yeah j do you
really want to do a straw poll about whether or not m&m's or skittles are superior because you
know you'll lose right we've already done that and i definitely won no that's why i said you know
you'll lose um well okay i'm just gonna settle for that better than the peanut ones and leave it at
i will agree with that but i don't think everyone else will like i'm probably at the
minority with that one oh let's let's do a straw poll for that then are they better than peanut
go for it create it and i will i will well all right i can mod you on the stream as you can
post it i guess um he he guys i say la funny sex word he he not funny didn't laugh go to bed you
dog oh jeez all right raw calm down uh happy 50th episode guys so glad i could witness this
crazy joyride i hope you guys continue to enjoy what you do and have another successful year
this round of rhino milk is on me may you stay forever massive drop hole changed completely
because it's saying i need to make an account really and it's a different design no it looks the
same to me oh i was on a different site okay i was on straw poll dot com or something it's
straw poll dot me yeah that's it idiot this jay guy everyone's suggesting i kick you what do you
think jay uh i think there's a lot to be said for that uh force feminized mauler kick raggled
how tall am i that reminds me of carl box this is such a there's so many views i didn't manage to
catch the whole stream but thanks for entertaining as always i'm looking forward to another year of
wonderful effap cheers she is right back at you me high cheek sent me high rags i don't know what
to think of that it's like yeah i come back the next day and it's still going yep that's how
we do um all right so yeah let me if you pull up my channel are you gonna mod me for this um
i mean i can i just i'll take care of it myself yeah i'll just do it so this this is the straw
poll to decide what is better peanut m&m specifically or skittles jay needs to know
the answer to this please vote now it is incredibly important okay we're doing oh no
uh oh okay yeah we're we're oh yeah okay it's the people are correct it's settling in about 50 50
uh oh oh that was quick skittles skittles are better yes i was gonna say i've known a lot of
people who prefer peanut m&m's over all of the m&m's you mean when you say you have known you
mean you don't know them anymore because you yeah it looks like skittles have the victory but why
no they're not you absolutely are better no they're not like garbage
yeah i disagree i wonder how many people would have been like easily swayed the vote like if
someone had given a speech about peanut m&m's previously to this poll oh we should have done
that peanut m&m's are garbage because people with peanut m&m's is garbage and here's why video essay
two hours do it jay do it it's the only way to get this poll further to your team jay that's
actually attempting april fools peanut m&m's the garbage yeah i guess we have our ads to be like
two hours long oh shit jeremy people would people would see that and they'd be so curious that they'd
click it i i'm going to carry on uh roses are red and we are all geeks bend over rags and spread your
cheeks oh my like bowler is long and rags always box this video reminds me of call marks why did
two different people decide to rhyme at the same time maybe there was something about it in the
stream i don't remember rhymes in the stream but weirder things have happened rags making these
garbage insecure coping sex jokes makes me want to go cliff cliff booth at the end of once upon a
time in hollywood mode oh that might be a spoiler i wouldn't see that you can't forget it yeah i'll
forget it no i went out of my cinema super fast i went i was intending to go see it and it just
disappeared i was like okay when a spoiler like has nothing in it that you can actually grab onto
or tear like about the mc then you'd remember it and shit when it's about characters that you
literally have no idea who the fuck they are and like have no idea what the fucking you've it means
that spoiler is going to be gone like out of your head like i slit i already can't remember it i was
gonna say i actually don't remember what it said already so very good sign because none of it meant
anything to me so um hey guys love the streams and happy anniversary it's 7 a.m here and thanks
everyone for coming along wonderful content take my money thank you bacteria blast all right i'm
writing this super chat at 135 british time wait seriously oh fuck what time is it in britain
659 so yeah oh damn so that was five and a half hours ago oh
i got an hour left i can do this would the past tense of slig shall be slang chat
asking the hard questions there
slang shat
congratulations on 50 you bastards what is efap 51 no idea there's a good chance we'll take like a
three-week break considering the absolute good i don't know i'd like to be able to get the fucking
game of thrones video done i'm getting hounded about that every day thinking as the manager i
should have been consulted about this maybe you will be maybe you will be talking this from your
pay we're definitely having a two-week break instead of just the one okay that's happening
so it's totally happening this is between seasons this is end of season four or mid season four it's
one of those two manager you can decide this uh season 10 uh rags your gay lover here i've
been with you all 24 okay uh what timing that the 50th would end on my birthday you've earned some
birthday money skull on wheels and soon a pleasant rest as well we'll see what happens i want to see
more like timed ones now to see like in a while just to see how progress we're making um right oh
my goodness why would you even superchair that why i can't believe i pay to say this shit yeah
that's a good follow-up one for that what was the last one did the last one say
it's just dry cum like why
what no no i'm like was it one of the really i say wet cum yes that wasn't one earlier that
must be the that's the that's the setup and payoff question mark yes the stream is well
ready that's a reaction to it maybe that's when i just like the idea that he did both that he went
why do i do this what's wrong with me congrats on 50 awesome show you're the best
thank you keeping you up to date with the state of their cum that's very kind it's very kind
uh holy moly long man a whole 24 hours what are we up to right now nine to be 20 27
okay around around 27
it was it was nine plus no eight plus nine plus whatever we have those 17 plus 11 28
we're about to hit 28 hours there jesus christ i went a little bit over guys
um
oh i love how i can wake up go to school come home go to work come home go to sleep wake
up go to school again and eve app is still going during lunch i don't know that that's true
i think i'm going to school come home go to work come home go to sleep wake up go to school again
oh no i think that actually is possible yeah like it all happened yeah that was possible yeah
we're in danger of like being here when free wakes up
up i know right i'm freaking in the freeze like actually i'm gonna go for a nap i'm gonna
head to mega we're like no free you can't do this to us three times we can't experience this kind
of time travel uh have any of you watched bojack horseman yes it's awesome um great show i know that
fringy's a huge fan of it as well i have not seen it you should watch it it's great you'd love it
it's just really solid character writing throughout and that's basically it's just
character writing oh i it's definitely on the list it's on a list i don't know what where
this list is or what it's going to do to me but it's there list of actually good netflix shows
yes the non-tismy argument against objectivity is about the idea of a definitive take if such
a thing exists it'll end discussion once expressed no because people right it's definitive right
that the earth is you've ended the conversation about it no one can talk about earth anymore well
done but that hasn't like people still think the earth is flat because they're dumb also yeah but
also there's other ways to talk about a thing you can establish what it is and what standards it
achieves that you could also continue talking about it in any way you wish to it doesn't if
there was a definitive take on something's quality right you could assess it so finally
people wouldn't agree with it yeah there's still gonna be discussion there always will be
yeah uh thanks to everyone for throwing such a massive fat party to celebrate my son's first
birthday see you for the next one that was from iron duke did you have a son's birthday happy
birthday um good timing um also mauler if mauler is the new j if he hasn't seen bone tomahawk yet
oh it's good i'm not i can't put the new j if i haven't seen one film
you also haven't seen the exact show i have to not have seen at least 10 000 films
i probably haven't is great yeah i'll i'll i swear i'll watch it okay fine i'll do it but i'll do
jeez um big f mauler can you and rags post your pc specs on discord my name is nominal ninja
i will make a note of this and hopefully sort it out yes okay good i was really happy to see nick
frost was in it also fin is in it he is yeah that's hilarious
do any wittig is in it fuck i didn't realize oh yeah is she the nurse mid-lage but yeah oh god damn
oh older than all the rest of them i like brobs and mayhem those guys were funny
oh great um yeah chat if you haven't seen attack the block go watch it it's awesome this is from it
from creamy sheep ha ha p p poo poo much gay you still have rags why
um i love this j guy never seen any of his own videos and do not intend to bless this
why why even say this
uh oh okay bless this stream in the name of the rich abbins the dawn and the holy j
wait the holy j amen oh thank you i've been i've been i've been put on another level here
i just love the idea he wears ships you yeah well don't watch your videos
maybe gay from red leather mean yet not oh yeah yeah sorry jay yeah sorry sorry about that
i just got out of a work meeting nearly fell asleep because i was up till 5am and came in
at 7am worth it keep up the tisms you massives it's we're getting there uh hi rags hi hi hello
everyone as a certified tism i'm here to grant you all of the cancer and asperger's passes
if you don't already have them the masses you cover are literally worse than tumors in my throat
okay love you guys movie bob broke my toe what what did bob stand in it everyone
automatically assumes he would have stood on the toe he wouldn't like he attacked you no he stood
on you um also hi rags any special plans for the release of rise of skywalker i'd like to see
mooran rags along with four guests give their initial impressions unfiltered yeah i i don't see
why we wouldn't do that if we figure out when it's coming out we'll try and organize an efap
specifically for it i guess i imagine everybody's gonna be different as well yeah everyone's gonna
be want to do the takes for that it's gonna be a fun one um hello you wonderfully massives
just wanted to leave my mark on this historical moment slice and dice brothers and hi rags
hi it people if rags was to look back at this he'd be like why is weekend warrior saying hi
whenever there's a hierarchy i want the meme to continue next time he comes back and yeah
how are we gonna we need to let everyone know that everyone is supposed to say hi whatever
i read that out let them let them know in secret he's gonna get frustrated like stop say that i'll
say hi to you i'll take this away from rags here's my first super chat in honor of episode 50 or
e5 50 uh love you guys and thanks for many hours of great content all hail the dawn and the cosmic
chicken jay you want to milk me like one of your rhinos oh yeah from eric stewart he always comes
out with stuff like that uh you can't super chat anal apparently oh like put put in one word i guess
chat well it was spaced out a n a l with spaces but apparently yeah uh watching efap chronologically
here from 20 episode 23 leaving this here to hear the shout out in 600 hours when i catch up unicorn
milk oh um i called the beginning and now the end of efap 50 but i'll have plenty of the middle to
watch on my birthday on saturday thank you for many hours of fun over the last year and best
wishes to wolf thank you very much well i've made it for 16 out of 24 hours of fapping not
quite as much as i'd liked but are well here's a lot of money for the massive trick you've just
turned for me and cheers for another year of your tism tree thank you william and uh 16 hours out of
24 ain't too bad how long have i been awake for again six 30 hours now
oh buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo that's the
sentence to make sense right yes but i probably didn't um inflect that properly i can't remember
how to actually do it um but yes that is a sentence arkham origins was my favorite arkham game
i really liked arkham city i thought that shit was awesome
jackson versus smudboy it was not great they were having four or five different conversations
at the same time smudboy's arguments need a lot of refining um yeah i did listen to some of it
jackson wants to drill down to like core aspects of how you can draw objectivity out of a thing
and i think smud wanted to talk about sort of classical literature and rules we've developed
over time storytelling and so there was i think they even say like there's a little bit of talking
over each other but it's good that they gave it a shot uh less southpaw from now on please did i
feel like i read that one before but that's new i think you did read that before i guess it might
have been the same guy as well let's just assume josh yah does not like southpaw um you had to do
this at the same time as the dota championship huh don't worry you can always come back and check
this one out on mueller um oh look at the dota championship and it's done either way
become rather comforting that i can wake up to mauler's soothing voice fall asleep to his voice
and then wake up to it once again love you masses have you too glad to be here on your 24 7 live
stream and thanks for doing one got a question for you guys i would like to know your stance on
when does a mysterious background just become bad writing and where would you draw the line
mysterious backgrounds justified within the context of the story for the characters to be
mistaken really so like a lack of information about the character when is it okay when is it
not it's like it's it's always going to be about how much information you use pretty much what jay
said it's a contextual depends on how much we need for uh the information that's missing
allows the plot to happen then yeah you should i just looked at chat saurus night nighty southpaw
was a bit too emotional but not enough to get kicked pick jay instead um yeah uh we probably
to give a more complicated answer we would probably try and use examples of times where characters have
sufficed with mysterious backgrounds like jack sparrow has a pretty mysterious background and
perfect examples of snook and the emperor yeah and then joker has got a super mysterious
background and yet you know it works it's functionally perfect for the role he plays
how about ray she's got a very clearly laid out background does she
in terms of her family but like we don't know that it was character like you know
it's only a mysterious only a mystery who her family was because she brought it up
if she never did it would be like oh i was abandoned here when i was a little girl
i have just been a scavenger ever since um and that's it that's my story um
congrats on 50 efaptisms you're all legends you've helped me look more critically at all
of media i consume and i can't thank you masses enough slice and dice your way to 100 brothers
also high rags hi jake are they before you this time yeah
decals also rags how do you feel about over under shotguns as a secondary question
would you like world war europe art actions i will i will capture this to ask rags uh the next time
i wish you'd answer that question for rags together right
i forget do you know that what are you do you prefer over under shotguns do you even know what
that means go on jay what's it over under shotgun a good answer okay i prefer um
yeah over shotguns because uh i like the i like to have them uh under ones they get under foot
but over ones like you know they don't do that they're in the right place bolt action rifles
hmm what do you got to say about them oh no those are they're uh they're used for shooting no i'm
talking about the ones that aren't that obviously oh then they're used as clubs damn i'm like for
wall hanging and stuff um okay which is gayest a wing y wing x wing or j
what i mean i asked the question so i can't answer it it's up to you guys
ah that's hard
that's hard that's a poor choice of words
i like gay ass
the chat is pretty uh pretty clear on yeah i was gonna say i think i think it was obvious
where chat was gonna be going with that one i still appreciate chat's input because we know
that they only tell the truth yeah chat only only tells the truth um chat dropper
a very big truth on us right now
well you're just going to ask them for random truths and wait for one of the most
fascinating ones yeah completely random truths
i bet this is going to create the gay wing
people are still just saying j wing the first thing that i think could possibly be a response
to that is shoes it's just chat's getting very fast now why what have you done you riled them up
your mom gay oh no uh the cake was a lie jaded 7-eleven 7-eleven
i woke up yesterday morning and efap 50 was happening i went to bed last night and woke
up again this morning you're still going surprised you're still functioning mauler we all are
hi everyone but rags so wait hi everyone but rags you don't feel left out aww hello
hello all right we don't say hello these are genuine hellos we get to say hello as yourself
not as rags hello hello um get sisal on here i only met sisal the one time um but maybe maybe
we'll explore getting each of the um members of the fandom menace around he's a member of
the fandom menace right someone in the chat just said incest is the best somebody said
7-eleven is a part-time job it's a part-time show
pretty funny um extended guy horrible not sure what else oh long man bad i guess um ij that's
from ultimate fatty oh yes he also said hi mauler hello hi robot head unfringing so hello
hi anna
all right and he uh he didn't say hello to weekend warrior feels bad man i guess you wouldn't hear
at that point i'm not sure probably yeah um happy 50th efap missed a bit was loads of fun though
this is my second breakfast while watching efap
um mauler what editing software and mic do you use with obs that would be
sony vegas 16 and an 80 2020 with like a standard smaller beringer mixer also j make more content
you massive spider milking man liquor i make content really often i was gonna say he tends
to bring videos out um i probably the most frequent uploader of like the efap regulars right
yeah actually yeah certainly more than fringy more than me and more than rags so
well so you've got to be that's bullshit you've definitely got him
yeah i think j is probably the most covered uploader out of the people who are covered
efap so um also hi rags hi literature devil explains the adaptation argument is really about
genre when an ip is i don't know we can't hear you oh oh maybe he has to join and rejoin rejoin the
call i was about to say how come you haven't had that tismy problem with your microphone since
i don't know have i jinxed it now
we still can't hear anything from you by the way oh no no
even though he says hannah in the film
oh hello hello
show you get there um we believe in you literature devil explains the adaptation
argument is really about genre when an ip is prolific enough it becomes a genre and thus has
expectations but even genres can be broken though so the implication there would be that
couldn't the spider-man genre at that point be reasonably broken i guess it has to be within
certain restraints but i think it's a fair assessment to a degree and yes we can hear you again
let's have everyone beat gas how does leah die in episode nine or do they keep her alive to the end
i think they'll keep her alive did i say let's have every beat guests it says beat gas i think
it's supposed to be best gas oh oh i think it's gonna be alive until i reckon they'll keep her
alive it'll be a bunch of shots that try and avoid her front face and whenever there is one it's
gonna look a little bit awkward maybe sometimes um and that she'll survive the narrative she won't
be too important to it i don't think holy moly 45 minutes left come on i wake up i got paid and
y'all are still going here's money for some much deserved coffee only video i found that comes
close to saying t2 is bad is cracked too many just two great movie terrible sequel video and
i think you might agree oh maybe it depends on how you'd frame that i guess um i was there for
the beginning and the end but not the middle alan be praised to the baddest of long men the tisms
wolf rag is all right hi he didn't say hi to the rag so that was a false you come you took one
ahead of time you're gonna have to let one go now that's a have and have it and not need it and
needed and not what are you alien versus predator fan what me no i was just gonna say that's the
where i know that quote from where'd you know it from i do really like that film av is it's really
fun i haven't watched i don't remember i don't i don't hate avp especially with the predator
existing and alien versus president requiem being stupid but it's still tism yeah requiem is awful
it's boring requiem's really dark it's really hard to see it requiem was requiem in the north
bowl or was that the first that was the first one the first one the first one was the good one
well not good but you know fun fun yeah uh congrats on the year guys all hail the toxic brood shout out
to rags and jay they're my favorite efap guests oh these past 24 hours have been awesome thank
you all for this amazing past year molar and the rest keep at it wolf we're all with you also hi rags
hi hi hi good morning that's just a super chat i guess someone just popped it in the morning
um hour 24 of question mark hashtag we were there oh hi rags oh hi hi congratulations boils and
ghoul you're done go to bed we're not done yet we're getting there almost almost there i think
plenty more left probably like a half hour's width i'm hoping if i keep keeping this so we're
doing this whole how much hunger is on the stream oh not long how much hunger is on the stream
how much longer have we got on the stream yeah we this is and this is the thing it's actually
gonna double over so i got us okay we're doing this whole 24 hour thing again next week right
no remember lads no one is taller than the last man standing that's a way to win the height argument
i suppose um happy birthday efap also hi long man and rags hello hi hello congrats you toxic
massives been happy fapping since day one now to Bedfordshire with you all before rags sleep nuts
all over the place hi um David Koch just died i don't know who that is press s in chat to spit on
grave oops i mean salute i honestly no idea who he is uh unsurprisingly the 24 hour efap ran long
oh that was the joke in super chat form i guess oh he's like one of the richest men in the world
i think yeah 11th richest person apparently damn rip it's like i don't really know what it means
it was in charge of like cock industries or something cock industry it's a business name
like coke oh is it pronounced coke oh yeah i i don't care i don't know um we'll find out more
but we've not got time to talk about the cock man dying it is called cock industries
so dumb childish my love uh congrats molar the 24 hours of efap also hi rags
hi i woke up to blessed pipeman reading gay unicorn prawn hi jay what are these super
chairs please say it like Anna and may the dawn be with you because we really really
going to need it wait does this thing they want Anna to say or for me to say this oh they're
asking you to say my closing so in the end of all my videos i say may the force be with you because
we really really really are going to need it i'm going to replace it with and may the dawn be
with you because we're really really really going to need him it's it's typical dawn kind of saves
the day in most of the efap lore so it would make sense that he could sort out whatever issues we're
facing um hi super channel zone so hi i wonder how long it's going to take to read all these
super chats i don't know fucking eight hours i think it might be more than that i have to check
a stream of sleep deprived people efapping together yes go to sleep rags oh god this is
what he would rags left oh dipping out to get through airport security hopefully the tsa won't
pull me aside and touch my sword like weapon also hi rags hi hey rags hey have you played a game
called deadbolt i will copy crap by the way if i don't get to the end of these before we're about
to hit 12 i'm just going to end and then we'll um i'll just read these out at the beginning of
the next efap so don't panic they will be sorted um regardless of how close i come to
topping off my own ability to be able to continue uh star wars was first created in 2017
what
i don't even mean i'm pretty sure that's true all right last one the last jello came out
uh no it's not is it oh no yeah it was has it been that long yes that's why i was like it hasn't
been oh my god it has uh first super chat ever what are you guys's opinion on divinity original
sin too i love it i've never played it
jay you gotta say the thing i know we know all the answers well but you gotta say it anyway
what was the thing divinity original sin too have you played it
oh i'm sure you don't know that is there you go and uh and i'm gonna assume that's a no as well
you hear me oh yeah no but um now i can okay
okay uh mola happy 50th you massive also hi rags hello i feel bad for doing that to you guys
uh i dub fringy a new name called frozzy australian plus frog frozzy praise don't tonal don his love
don his life speak in truths um here my rhino milk what your opinion on the scene in the force
awaken where solo use hyper jump to go through the star killer base shield but in the last jedi the
purple lady used hyper jump to crash into supremacy in um force awakens if you watch that
scene the shutters are opening and it's i remember looking at myself it's not 100 as to whether or
not he would have hit anything if going into hyperspace forward from there because like i
said the the blast fields or whatever are opening up a lot of people think he just leaves because
he's just going through solid because he's he's entering the hyperspace sort of um
slipstream element thing but they do have the shutters open so it technically would work with
both rule sets uh is what i'm saying as far as i'm aware i'd have to check again andy signal
ifap when i i don't know if he's interested but i don't necessarily mind it'd be fun uh ruin needs
to dig straight down in minecraft get anita sock easier on ifap i don't think she'd come on ifap
a million years but i'm guessing she'd be welcome absolutely get h bomber guy on ifap
again he'd be welcome i don't think he'd come on with all those tangents are going to be here in
two days no we're getting there we're getting there what kind of commonwealth boulder dash
is spelling program program with with the double eminy programmy programming yeah it makes sense if
you say it phonetically is that what that word is used for i i wouldn't know this confirms that the
commonwealth is a farce by the globalists or the zionists perhaps that's true sent this when you
just finished hello greedos chats that's kind of confusing for me to think about actually i'm not
where were chats that were sent while you were covering hello breeder yeah well
brain um what can er said thoughts on the jq
jedi query yes so the jedi question were they were they bad was killing them bad or not
well the jedi could cause a lot of grief yes but i think it's undeniable that they were
worse than the sith i mean better than sith so having them all get wiped out in favor of
the sith ruling i think was an overall net bad that is my take jay what is your take on the jedi
question um the uh what you said weekend warrior what is your take on the jedi question
i i agree anna what is your take on the jedi question um i mean that's something that would
take me a long time to answer because there's so many things that come into play with it
but at the end of the day the jedi's goal is you know peace are very selfish and all about
uh just accomplishing their own goals and not having any remorse for hurting those that stand
in their way so oh i think it kind of speaks for itself cut out a little bit uh just the middle way
oh um the jedi are i mean
the jedi are better than the sith in that sense like as far as who's uh in control of the galaxy
absolutely i agree um i went to bed just as the stream was starting i'm now going to sleep again
i was only here as alan foretold the middle shall last forever um land fair pool gwynne gill
now he has to say it that's only like half of it it's way longer than that the the super long
welsh uh area and i forget it's like a village or whatever the super long welsh would
i would have read it all if it was there i'm sorry um hour 25 of question mark hi er
do we say hi back hello hi love y'all hi rags hi um payday two for next defap gaming
anything's possible honestly uh also hide my n-words especially the rag hello hi
which of you guys aside from drinker and wolf write novels under pen names smaller i do not
write novels now um i don't know if anyone else here does let me know i'm working on my first one
well oh cool that's the first one that i'm serious about you're gonna have an alias like
chuck tingle the dawn jx is an alien single
all right yeah cool we'll see how that goes then uh water content for the common darney animals
milk ranges between 83 and 91 percent rags is just a rhinophobe with his mostly water nonsense
love y'all though don't die from insomnia please but do you know that the account
name for that was gay transgender dif Dilophosaurus i like that it's a strange thing to make a youtube
account called but you know what i'm not here to judge rags have you received your monthly thrust
yet i i can't answer for him i could never do that here's five money mauler say the long welsh
city name youtube doesn't let me super chat it it thinks it's spab
oh welsh city name come on google you can do this good lord i forgot how long this is
that's you saying so it's land she's unfair pull gwin gil gorgari
gwin droll will anti silly goggle goggle go good enough yeah like i'd have to say that many times
people to do it in one but you can find youtube videos of people nailing it it's ridiculous and
i think they only did it to break a record damn what was called by why i don't know the weird people
he needs to break her record it's like with nothing else that's special about us why
okay mandalorian iron is canonically laser lightsaber proof i mean i think the shad's
the thing was like it doesn't seem to be consistently proof because it goes through
some of it sometimes it's fine there's always been lightsaber resistant armor even before
disney cortosis weave existed before good old didney world and that's one example fair enough
what's your opinion on stardew valley i didn't get into it i did give it a few hours and i just
didn't it didn't latch on for me i haven't played it don't know what it is oh well there we go
um hey mauler i'd like to tell you that it's possible to have a 24 7 stream there's only one
on right now on the channel and a noith i'm asking her around how well from what i've been told i
could keep the stream going but it will automatically cut itself up and so the last thing we need is to
have like a 12 hour piece and then a fucking 10 minute piece so i'm going to try and end with the
30 minutes i have do is you could cut them together on vegas afterwards render it out
a year yeah you're gonna upload it yeah why would i do that jay
uh to get it all in one piece that's ridiculous you're not making any sense jay how long have
you been without sleep i also like the fact that i'm in a in a call with only people who edit
videos so they can understand what i just said yeah how silly it is um they needed fin in that
village to start cleaning all the poop from the people they were killing because they'd empty
their bowels upon dying oh it makes sense yeah yeah legit stop super chatting guys you're gonna
make mauler die from sleep deprivation i'm catching up now hey mauler if people keep
sending super chats this stream will never end that's when geek fucking jereby was here we're
catching up to real time good night mauler we're getting there also hi rags hi if you can hand
someone a noose and tell them to do their best impression oh my goodness i don't even want to
say that's me i think it raw no it's not even raw it's it's vladimir dragadov oh uh then eric said
hi anna i think she said hi back sometimes the mic doesn't pick it up i don't know i'm guessing
uh and then nerd rotik said you're never fully dressed without a smile hashtag for the dawn thank
you dude he was he was going to pop on but obviously that we couldn't get everyone and
everything and it sort of worked out autism me but um i'm gonna try and pop on his stream at some
point thank you very much for the for the super chat um yo yo yo yo what's the best hentai you
guys have read watched i don't know what he's talking about 2004 i don't yeah it's pretty filthy
i guess i would just say i don't know efaps episodes one through 50 like typically where i go
for for that sort of environmental that medium i don't know if you guys disagree that's fine
everyone has their own taste yeah um okay rags i heard you giggle to self on that sagoi stream
when the boomer said massive uh really hey remember that scene where zod kicked an oil
tanker at superman and instead of stopping it he bing bong wahood over it like a mario
i'd let it blow up the building behind him epic style like a boss yeah it was really fucking
a big ball whoa that's that's rob by the way again rob what is your 50 50 that was a good
super chat i like that shit big ball wahoo uh who would you guys bone if given the opportunity
in the star wars universe i'm torn between prequels ob one and ot luke hmm roses sister
oh yeah i think that's yeah okay i'm agreeing with that one actually yeah yeah anna do you have a
choice anna we can't hear you by the way if you're talking just thought you should know that in case
because because i feel like the last couple of times it's it's been a while
of not hearing anything and then we get spooked i'm sure yeah um
i graduated as bachelor during the stream fuck yeah all right uh but back but back to the future's
rules for time travel is stupid and nonsensical primer is great i well this is the thing about
back to the future's time travel rules i'm pretty sure they stick to them they're just kind of like
huh like the waves of time catch up to you and so you slowly fade out of existence but you can
prevent it as long as you force the events of you know it's kind of like seems kind of weird
but yeah primer is the one as far as i'm aware that's like probably the best iteration of time
travel in a movie anyone's ever made oh yeah maybe maybe not game of thrones milk oh baby a triple
from ray uh great to see that i go to a concert get home fall asleep and you're still going this
is peak humanity nice rags his favorite car why is it the Mercedes-Benz model 770 of course one of
the seven remaining models to be particular but um that is that like hitler's car or something i'm
terrible with cars i'm gonna assume it is forever stream and of the ceo of efap confirmed you should
check out plague of gripes he's a long man too and he does story analysis and animation memory
perfect for efap happy 50th thank you just found out the shrek the musical is coming to australia
next year what a happy day trek the musical there's a thing called trick the musical why
the question would be why wouldn't there if it didn't exist of course do they have the hey
what's that song like oh fucking awesome trick yeah yeah if they didn't have that it would be
offensive yeah um another full lyrics to that song off by heart our like the second verse
our 26th of question mark happy 50th efap remember to drink your rhino milk before bed
token children are capable of course of literary belief when the story maker's art is good enough
to produce it that state of mind has been called willing suspension of disbelief but this does not
seem to me a good description of what happens what really happens is that the story maker proves a
successful sub creator he makes a secondary world which your mind can enter inside it what he
relates is true it accords with the laws of that world you therefore believe it while you are there
as it were inside the moment disbelief arises the spell is broken the magic or rather art has failed
spoken on fairy tales fairy stories i suppose that's um
uh it's talking about like internal inconsistency internal consistency right versus um
believability to a different standard yes i like it there are no space wizards in real life
well do we know that
yeah yes um five for rags five for mauler high rags just want to be a part of the 50th keep it
up love you hi hi hi oh hannah um you can never bash tlj too much it deserves infinite ridicule
i love listening to it every time i even re-listen to old content regularly i mean it is it is the
punching bag of reality almost tlj to a degree it's just like anyone can just go ahead and use
its target practice for talking critical analysis it's just infinite ways to break it down and
come at it from the context of just the film alone from within the the all the canon of the
films and then there's all the extended stuff the just just a lover of art in general you
you can go ahead and rip into it in any way shape or form yes what a wonderful job it did
you should invite comics matter with your boy zach for patrick h williams video efap he's
coded him a few times before in a positive light so it'd be interesting to hear his perspective
on the guy we shan't want to force anyone to rip apart someone they they are find beloved you know
um so i guess you guys can probably figure out where we were at this point
super chats go the first one is fat the second one is cuck
oh yeah uh the fact cuck fart this is so sad efap play akbar's theme
razor fist for efap that's a possibility he's definitely on the list
he's a cool guy captain marvel hands down the worst mcu film
um yeah i agree genuinely thank you for efap glad to be a chat
thank you very much for being a chat um mom don't slap the orphan he didn't mean it
i love you jay also kick jay
i'm spending the price of a movie ticket simply to tell you that watchman is worth watching you
should watch it oh no lies not watch watchman oh and then the follow-up is nice anna's assertive
i like that the skype call likes that i don't know if that's scary or not but it's a compliment
being assertive is a pro um i just realized i gave greedo 10 pounds to tell him two million two
hundred and twenty five thousand first order versus 400 rebels is silly he agreed can't wait
for anna to have her own efap episode oh yeah well this is the thing it's weird anna you've been on
the game of thrones finale discussion and then the the post post 24 hour one so we got to get
you your own your own episode it's gonna happen so eventually um the only thing good thing about
supernatural was the crossover episode with scooby doo that did happen it happened yeah
that's a real thing oh my god um buffy is life yeah i think that's a fair that's fairly
mauler try and get alex jones as a guest to talk about the prequels as an allegory for
globalist new order world conspiracy he'd probably do it and i would let him
like come on alex um thanks for the amazing stream can't wait to watch it all in full
this weekend i hope wolf is doing well thank you very much um mauler buffy versus angel
which had the better ending personally although i found the angel ending more satisfying um oh what
angel killed spikes arc what are you talking about no they continued it right oh yeah they
i don't say too much because if wolf is listening because he's not through it all yet uh angel has
the way better ending buffies he's got quite a couple of issues writing wise but it's a very
positive one angel season five is glorious well that's that's my simplest take uh i want to do a
video on it one day it's like one of my favorite things of all time least consistent character for
episode nine general hux dumbhole gleason will be replaced by a black woman why would why would the
what um i'm wondering if there's someone out there that is a tlj defender flat earther and
sovereign citizen i'm imagining an autistic version of plank from ed ed and eddie there has to be
so many people on earth yep there has to be one guy um hi rags thanks to all of you for your
amazing content tfa part three in game of thrones when tfa part three is august 2020 and the game
of thrones video will be let's say two weeks i really shouldn't have said that let's say two weeks
yeah and then it's gonna get to two weeks people find out that i say another
should i just say 10 years oh the read chat said a black girl because the trend is like
the red-headed people are replaced by black people oh it just suddenly is a black woman
we'd be like okay that makes sense
you actually er noticed that yeah he pointed it out and he's he's got more than a pattern
yeah um mission report december 16th 1991 that is a civil war reference slash winter soldier
reference i guess um i'm looking forward to death stranding because it's about a man walking
across a bleak but comfy landscape to protect babies from villains named homo demons
excuse me what homo demons i don't know that they're called homo demons
is it because like hedeo kojima thought calling them homo demons is like homo sapiens is that it
i don't know i don't know are they actually called homo demons it's like are they the next
step in humanity's evolution homo demons i don't know i don't know holy fuck you're still going
keep it up until you pass out mola thanks for a wonderful year of efap we're getting there
we're almost there i swear okay this is easy the next one says sex the next one says sex
the next one says i wanted to see if sex is blocked it's not good job man mola could you
please say hi to my friend gusta he loves the show also hi mola hello and hello gusta i'm glad
you're enjoying the show uh so seven day efap will have two days dedicated to superchats
it might it would end up maybe being more than that seven day efap oh my yeah that's happening
it's in your contract no it's not i never signed that it is lying to me not to your knowledge um
hi efap and special guest star rags hi hello ant man's plan was to get rid of captain marvel forever
oh brilliant it makes a lot of sense it's like the hero we need where did you said dirty's like
does it matter uh z's in the chat if you've been here since the beginning like i said everyone
will start typing z's hour 27 of question well jay try to pronounce the longest word in the english
language oh i saw that one yes um do you want to give it a shot regardless you've been demanded of
it now numo numo numo no you can see the word microscopics in there right no oh microscopics
yeah it is microscopics licorval can volcanosis there you go it's a real word volcaniosis yeah
that's cool weird um there you go it's the longest word in english let's see what happens
first i move into my dorm or this stream ends well i've got 14 minutes okay seriously i'm gonna
have to start speeding this up have you guys seen overly sarcastic productions trope talks
they casually fireside talks about certain story techniques informative and fun jay mentioned them
just a little bit earlier i've not seen any of the videos apparently they have some decent takes on
different topics in relation to writing isn't that right jay yes they're good you should have them on
the age of consent in qld is 16 where's qld
queen's land oh well that's the age of consent in britain i was gonna say 16 that's one of the
more common ones i think isn't it in japan it's 13 yeah see that's not as common 18 what is wrong
with driving before 18 my dad has been driving ever since he was nine um it's not that you can't
do it it's just that it seems dangerous that's all is the potential for danger um the dragon
prince's shit don't at me oh well that answers that about the thing that was done by the makers of
the legend of ang avatar the brain melting put up thanks for making my work day better and congrats
on 50 episodes of efap also more somehow you said my last name right first try fj oh i guess jay
didn't sorry jay you fucked it up happy 50th keep on efapping efappers congrats on 50 folks
big milestone you should invite the entire efab rogues gallery onto the podcast for 100 also
has smudboy come on at all yet someone said he was in the chat at one point during this stream
um i would have had him on but he didn't pm me and he didn't tweet at me that's kind of where i was
absorbing everything as well as being told about things in chat so i guess i missed him but um
we'll try and get him back on at some point i got paid while this was going on so here's more dosh
i greatly appreciate all you guys do this has helped me get through lifetisms and i wish you
all the best send wolf all the love i'll do remember mauler if this ends in the chat you
just keep saying kick jay like every couple of you not like i see you christina i see i see you
remember mauler if this ends within two hours from this super chat you'll go to sleep before
me and i'd be awake for 32 hours without sleep that's too much maths for me to figure out what
that means go to sleep i'm getting there jonathan shut down colleagues in jail all professors now
that's raw i don't okay i'm trying to save up for a laptop for video editing do you have any
suggestions i'm not the person who asked about laptops i have no idea they'll xps it's funny
the best laptop for running windows is a macbook there you go they did they did tests do you really
think do you really think you can't trust jay you know he wouldn't lie to you uh yes at this rate
i'm gonna finish we're go home take a nap at a shower eat dinner and see my friend and then
you'll still be going quite possible oh it wasn't a joke she's leaving as much as it makes me sad i'm
happy that we could joke about it and i know that it'll be better love you all apparently it's not a
joke that the wife is leaving the guy oh my god sorry that's terrible and he said he's happy that
they can joke about it yes sorry this happened dude but um you know hopefully things work out
and that um everyone's better off for it sort of thing
rags can i put it in your butt if i buy you a new bed
that comes after the heartfelt message you know i mean like what do you what can you do with super
chas just wanted to thank you for the fun been watching since jack saint and can always count
on you guys to make me laugh no matter what my day was like keep doing what you do ps get well wolf
we're gonna imagine if they found you via jack say
like this video awkward but not impossible uh it's got to be a few right let's go
hey maul i wasn't sure if you got to this yesterday i'm curious if you follow preston
jacob's game of thrones analysis videos recommend you check them out i answered that just not long
ago so yes maul and wolf help me in the west person in the chat if it goes over the limit the
old archive will be lost this is why i'm speeding up i don't think that's true i'm just speed up speed
it up time uh all right more and more help me in the worst time of my life through these streams
thank you so much looking forward to even more thank you all my n-words i'm glad we could provide
that and uh thank you for the kind message you guys here joke is getting a hard r yo based
we're hoping it'll be a great film hi mauler in gadel they love how you showed bdo and called it
pissed that game sucks though the only draw to it is that you can get an n-word pass for
hitting level 66 long grind bad all right uh say my name for i have endured this to the end
jj julius that's my guess not sounding tired after 24 hours mauler ai confirmed enough of
this middle thank you wolf mauler in rags for the hours of happiness you provide me sadly j
is often there as well hi j j gay donut porno wed code gay rags would be proud you're at like
28 hours my dude go to bed also i love you massive congrats on 50 amazing streams also 8 a.m in hawaii
again sleep molests my eyes holy god i left my apartment in the airport at the streams at 24
hour mark i'm now in baggage claim at my destination how are you still here oh jesus i know
oh checking in to see if any of you have listened to the deer hunter yet uga booga i have not
there's a great portal fan film that was called outside aperture i have to check that out all
these good shit you think you'll ever do an e-fap mini for the terminator dark fate trailer if you
like the trailer theme song hasn't been memed enough uh we did try to record a reaction to it
we didn't have enough really to work with and it didn't make for much of a reactions we decided to
ditch it if they i'll probably cover the film in general depending on what it is how they do
um but yeah so not for the time being with that um hello all my n-words here's some shackles to
the stream never ends also hi rags hi hi happy late birthday thanks for providing such a great
podcast that gives intelligent background noise while i die in dark souls also hi rags hello hi
happy 50th keep making good rat also hi rags hi is this real can you yes can you just stream
for 48 hours instead don't be lazy no would you rather have one year and 50 e-faps or e-fap or one
wait what would you rather have one year and 50 episodes of e-fap or one 50 year long episode of
e-fap 50 years long i will go with the former um at that star wars gill which star wars eu book
slash media is your favorite uh i really like the throng duology so uh i started off with um the
throng they're not the new throng novels that just came out or i shouldn't say just came out they
came out um like the heir to the empire ones and then the throng duology takes place 10 years after
that but i actually like the duology better because it adds so much more and you kind of get
the closure that worked for luke's character and uh it's they're really really good so i would
recommend those ones and then um i was gonna say throne throne's a safe choice a lot of people
talk about how good it is um here's more just the universe and the other characters
because throng's not in the duology he's he's already passed away by that time
oh fair enough uh here's some dollar for the effort and you know because you're all great
and stuff cheers to another year of e-fap thank you and then there's jeremy with just because
fucking love you guys i could love you jeremy as well we're nearly there i swear to god i can do
this i got like seven minutes but i pronounced the latin part of my name mark idilania devak
vassu vassie nailed it i just wanted enough good enough good enough the next one is taste the
rainbow peanut m&m's are bad because they have nuts and nuts are gay also mola how is slay the
spire going i'm liking slay the spire a lot i'm enjoying the challenge and uh it's fun to play in
the background every once in a while while they're editing no sleeping allowed until game of thrones
video is out oh i'm so i'm gonna sleep you guys stop me also mola love the content and i literally
fall asleep every night tlj critique like a crack addict and efap is amazing also thoughts on captain
phasma for episode nine question oh she's not gonna be in it so it won't be possibility but
i mean it would be funny if she has like a surprise cameo but um yeah i'm glad you enjoy
the content um oh no mola realizing he's five hours behind on superchats not anymore
our 28 of efap you didn't plan this well long man i've did i've still got five minutes
who could vote ball movie bob or jim stealing movie bob sure why not i think i think i think
it might be jim stealing i think it's jim stealing um may the dawn bless you all stay massive my
friends hello mola how'd you do excellent if not a bit rushed mola arguing with subjective speds
makes cogent arguments me arguing with subjective speds shut up stupid mental midget bitch rah
just extending efap to see who falls over first thank you hearing the superchats here is as
far as reading the comments for the veet product on abazon thank you for being humorous when we
needed it no problemo attack on titan didn't need to explain levy's background it was better when
he was just a force of nature which is something that happens sometimes you can have uh backgrounds
explained that actually ruined a mystery that wasn't required um i'm massive not efap massive
the fake kind of massive jade do you think that rags would still let me inside his dark side
