How do you know it's not to do with that?
Yeah, Jay, not all lexicon.
Well then he would still be a lexicon.
Yeah, but you've blamed the fact that he's a lexicon for his bad behavior.
No, I would be able to handle getting divorced without stabbing someone.
Aren't you like highlighting how bigoted you are?
You're like, oh, I don't like any lexicons because of how one of them treated me.
Yes.
I'm disappointed.
No, no, no, I didn't like them before that.
And I was like, well, this proves my point.
Like, that's what I was thinking as it was pointing out.
That sounds like a low level of statistics.
But it was like the third time that day it happened.
Oh, the third time.
You think three is a pattern.
That's the like the scientific number to establish a pattern.
Oh, so now we're appealing to science.
No, I didn't think you'd want to do that.
It's OK.
Hang on, putting up the proper chat because we'll have to do that these days.
Erectimundo, it is up.
It's like it's like we're all here.
And then chat has to enter the call like as there are.
It's like, but like there they go.
Oh, and of course, thumbnails must sort out thumbnails as you do.
So like, should we should we like talk about some stuff while we're while we're.
Yeah.
What do you what would you like to talk about?
What would you like to discuss?
It's just movies because I've watched a few of them lately,
but I feel like nobody else has.
Jay, what's the newest movie you watched?
The newest movie I watched.
Probably Rise of Skywalker.
Oh, I think I know 1917.
That's the last I went to the cinema.
You got something.
You are you going to go see birds of prey?
Yeah, I was about to say, how about that?
Probably not planning on it, at least.
Let's take a peek at the rotten tomatoes
because I think it was really high when it started.
Yeah, I'm sure it's very high.
It's a very well received shirt.
Oh, yeah, it still is.
It's at eighty two percent right now.
And the audience say eighty four.
What?
I mean, I have I've not heard only bad things.
I have heard some good things.
I've heard that Margot Robbie and Ewan McGregor are great in it.
A great in it.
And that's like the only thing that is going for it.
I've heard he's a little bit like absurdly evil.
As in like he's like he's like cartoonishly against women or something.
I was like, oh, oh, I mean, it's a shame.
But what are you going to do?
Harley Quinn is one of those.
Apparently, that's like the biggest reason he hates her.
Oh, wow. That's so dumb.
I mean, I don't know.
I haven't seen it.
I don't misrepresent.
There's probably a big Birds of Prey fan in chat right now.
It's like, what?
That is not the case.
But I've heard that because he's black mask.
I've heard that they've they've pooped on his character from from the comics.
Oh, yeah, I've heard that he's different from the comics.
It was the Birdman's review that I got all this from.
He's the only person I've heard talk about it so far.
Is it a fear of you, Jay?
Yeah, well, I don't know.
I haven't seen the fucking film.
Wow. She's saying you don't even trust him.
You can't even trust him.
I heard from somebody say that the characters are really, really
poorly, I guess, adapted from their comic versions.
Yeah, like they say, they're really just really badly done.
They're not anything like them, but they suffer for it
because the comic ones are apparently interesting and these people are not.
Well, I saw Hightop put out a tweet where he was like,
OK, and people are OK when when Joker doesn't do what's in the comics.
But apparently they're not OK with it when Birds of Prey does it like.
Well, I mean, it's in the movie.
It's it hurts doubly when, you know, they have source material to draw from.
That's really good.
Yeah, I'll tell you what.
They just decided to not do it.
The whole adaptation conversation gets quite interesting at that point,
because the thing is, if you have two people who hate the movie,
one of them hates it is a poor adaptation.
The other one hates it because it's a poor movie in general or something.
Then when the poor adaptation arguments are given,
the person who hates the movie isn't going to go.
No, that's not why it's bad.
They're going to go, yeah, that sounds shit.
It sounds like they could have done way better.
Like they will be on the same team pretty much.
It's only when you have stuff like Spider-Man Homecoming and all that,
where they split apart.
So like Hightop appealing to people who are like saying that it's not accurate
to the comics, it's probably not going to work out.
And besides, I thought Joker did take stuff from the comics like a lot of it.
Uh, like the Bruce Wayne character?
I don't know about that guy.
Is he in the comics?
No, I think one of them was supposed to be Alfred from what I've heard.
I'm not sure about it yet, though.
Are you sure about that?
Is that supposed to be Alfred?
I don't know. I'd have to check with my my my Alfred.
But like, you know, all of my Alfreds, my Alfreds.
Yeah, check them against the Alfred registrar that we have.
We have an Alfred. What?
Yeah, we have a registry of all Alfreds.
Literally every Alfred that ever existed.
Yeah. And so if he's in there, then I'd be very curious
because that just seems like it seems like how you'd find out.
Fuck me, dude, we could have used that during the Ralph video.
But I do.
I do feel out of the loop on bits of prey.
Like everybody's everybody's been talking about it.
It's like I really don't want to go to the theater.
And yeah, no, same.
I didn't realize the people were going to care.
I thought it was going to disappear.
But I was like, oh, my God, people want to.
I think it's just because I don't know.
It's it's like this is something that a good chunk of people
actually care about, the the birds of prey sort of.
Comic, I guess.
I don't know if it's like a full comic on its own or if that's like a team
that they were, that's the name of the team, but.
Oh, and then all of the stuff, like as I've heard about
Ewan McGregor being like, it's a it's a film about misogyny,
bad. It'll make misogynists tremble.
And like, I don't I don't think I don't think that would be enough.
I know I heard as well that it's apparently pretty brutal, like not gory,
but violent. Yeah, like it are.
I don't know, is it?
Might be, but it will either way.
What does the R stand for?
Really, really, really.
Great. Really?
Just really, really?
Yeah, that's what it means.
It just means really, really.
And yeah, like it's the funny part where you go, you contextualize it.
Movie wise, you're like, oh, it's a sequel to Suicide Squad, technically.
It's like, ooh, that was a good.
Yeah, they didn't want to call it Suicide Squad 2, did they?
Well, I think there's going to be a is it a reboot?
Yeah, there is a sequel.
Yeah, I can't remember. Well, either way, it's James Gunn's reboot, isn't it?
Um.
I was just thinking to myself, like, because they're concerned about it,
not making enough money, right, as well.
This this this one, and they're probably going to be going the route of
what did Elizabeth Banks say about Charlie's Angels?
Like men aren't watching it because they hate women or something.
Just one of those perspectives.
That's what they said about little women is like, it's apparently really good.
But, you know, those men, they don't want to watch a film about
a bunch of chicks fucking hate turning butter and shit.
Like, that just doesn't appeal to a lot of kidding, but are you kidding men?
I remember seeing a meme about an article being written
that saying this movie is not for men.
Go away.
And then another article from the same publication saying,
why aren't men seeing this movie?
Whether or not that's true is I believe it on the face of it, that that's a thing.
I absolutely believe, too, in the shadow of it out, that that is absolutely.
I want to find it.
Yeah, I kind of do, too.
I can't remember if it was Birds of Prayer or Little Women.
I'm pretty sure it was Little Women.
I mean, are you saying that these people went to simultaneously
have men do the things that they want, but also insult them
and degrade them and make fun of them for being men at the same time?
Rags, stop being a meme.
That's not allowed to do that on the Internet.
No, Rags is Rags is just trying to scare you.
It's like his little boogeyman stories.
He's why are being the Christmas, the Halloween skeleton,
but his persona when he does that, the Halloween.
Oh, that. Yeah, I just did a reference.
Shut up. I'm a boner.
Right. Do you remember the Halloween skeleton?
I do remember the Halloween skeleton.
I think so, at least.
I had not remembered it whatsoever to see it.
It'll be videos like what?
Yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, I thought it was the the Christmas skeleton.
I fucking don't remember.
I thought you did it on Halloween.
Yeah. And you give it you give presents to scary children.
Oh, yeah. And it's the Chris.
That's I think that's the Christmas skeleton.
Or was it the Halloween skeleton?
It was the Halloween skeleton.
That's what we're saying to you.
Really upset and joking.
Fucking idiot, right?
Yeah, it was all right, actually.
I mean, let me have a look, see, look here
because, you know, in my travels, I do collect questions.
I remember thinking there may have been one for.
Oh, yeah, there is one for Jay here. Jay, why did you kill Epstein?
To why I just didn't like him. Oh.
Is that enough?
Like, how did you get away with it at that point?
The amount of shad questions I've got, holy fuck.
Are they about saw or about all kinds of things?
He's not a one trick pony.
Good. Good. Jeebus. Good.
How many tricks does he have?
Three ish. I know as many.
I don't know why you go through all the trouble to have a pony
and train it to just stop at one trick.
I have tricks at all.
It's a living, breathing being. It deserves respect.
Pretty sure you're at a pony in a battle.
There are no humans on this world that perform tricks.
On the street corners at night.
Yeah, exactly. I was about.
They do in that that one movie, Taxi Driver, that isn't all that good.
Wait a minute, is that the same one that didn't allow to say that about?
I have seen. Oh, it's baseball's rags.
This is like the biggest taxi driver, the enemy that exists on planet Earth.
That's right. If it was better, I would have liked it more.
What about the comedy?
The comedy is better than Joker's.
Would you take it? I would.
That's bullshit.
You need to have a controversial movie take
so that we can do it with four of us then, but all for different things.
Oh, OK. What is my which which one of mine?
I've got I've got a few I imagine I'm trying to think of.
What's what's the take I have that pisses off chat the most?
Hmm. And just tell about it.
I think by the way, I have it now.
Yeah, that's probably it right there.
To be fair, though, I haven't actually seen a comedy or taxi driver.
I plan to eventually.
We'll see. I'm just kidding.
I just get a little fucking annoyed whenever you're talking about Joker.
And then you hear those two brought up all the goddamn time.
It's like he's on a movie.
So it's like, oh, it's like he's out of the police.
Therefore, it's like I can't.
You guys just can't take his fucking ripoff.
I can't.
Yeah, because I remember when I watched both of those,
I was thinking, wow, this isn't like Joker at all.
Well, yeah, we had to remind
those certain scenes, he was like, oh, yeah, this this this other film
where like immersed in an exploring is supposed to be like this
completely other film, you're like, oh, I wonder if if sugar came out first
and then a taxi driver and king of comedy came out,
if people will be calling them Joker ripoffs.
Oh, I said baby driver's bad.
That's true. And I stand by that the writing in that film
is horrible, but production elements are fantastic.
The soundtrack, the direction of how old it works is great,
but the fucking characters in the plot hits my brain.
You don't like Boss Baby.
Apparently people say that's good.
I haven't seen Boss Baby.
Is it good?
I don't know. It's like I saw.
I think I saw a Twitter thread that Stradimir was part of
and he was they were talking about how Boss Baby was underappreciated
or something. All right.
That's news to me, I guess.
I had no idea.
I honestly hadn't heard or thought about Boss Baby in a very long time.
Normally doesn't pop into my mind.
Can't believe you've not seen it. It's a masterpiece.
Once at my haltake is Spider-Man Homecoming and Far From Home of Good Movies.
Homecoming is a is a good movie.
Far From Home is is being right.
Doesn't make it a hot isn't what makes it a hot.
Well, I was going to say, like, I'm thinking more really solid.
And besides, we did the polling like loads of people think that Homecoming is a good film.
We're looking at stuff that's like, I don't know.
It's like the most I mean, Godzilla got us a lot of trouble.
It just seems like a 2001 movie.
Step three, where they're like, oh, it's Godzilla.
It's just shit. No, not the not the 2001.
Yes, shit. It doesn't have to have anything good.
The classics that you think are wildly overrated.
Like taxi driver.
Well, I guess. Yeah.
The working comedy.
I know it's really good. Yeah, I like comedy a lot.
2001. How do you feel about that?
I mean, I would probably have to rewatch it and go super critical,
but like I liked it when I watched it.
What about you, Jay?
I think it's fine.
And it gets a bit up itself at the end.
Like you suggested that it climbs up its own anus.
Uh, I, yes.
Does it use grappling hooks?
Yeah, how else would you get up there?
Oh, you can probably just grab in, right?
Just get a handful.
You've clearly never climbed.
John Wick three, someone said.
That's probably true.
But once Mel gets his video sorted, that will become less and less of a hot take.
I trust me on that.
John Wick two and three are just not good.
Jay, I have another one I've saved for you.
Ready? Yes.
Says, Jay, call to rags like dog properly this time.
Rags like dog like dog like dog.
And I think it's like rags.
Hey, boy, come on, come on, come over.
And then you look at rags as icon and that's his reaction.
Yeah, if you look at the assortment of the avatars on the stream,
it looks like he's really concerned that I'm staring at him that way.
Dude, get this fucking dude away from me, please.
I'm staring at the audience, compelling them to let this happen.
I know we know it looks like we're both looking in that direction.
We've like this, this disturbing creature with all the teeth has arrived.
He's over here like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And we've just been like rags who deal with it.
And we've both pushed him.
Yeah, I'm actually I'm actually I'm playing Guild Wars two right now as a char.
All my characters are char because char are amazing.
What's a char?
How do you spell that?
I want to imagine being some faggot who plays the game
like Guild Wars two or something and they're like, I'm going to be a human.
I mean, oh my God, I can play as a weak little human.
Oh, that's so that's so pathetic.
You're you're a pathetic person.
If you do that, this massive, incredible, magical world.
And you could play as.
Like legionary marshal cat bear
people who killed their gods with guns and stuff.
And you're like, no, I'm going to be a human.
Hey, man, humans are cool.
Humans are shit. Fuck humans.
Fuck humans.
Fuck humans.
I think I've got a lot of meme images.
And so the idea, I think, is going to be I'm going to
look like we got we got main events and I'm going to put memes
between each of the main events. All right.
OK, good.
We're going to start with with a tasty.
Oh, I said start already.
No, my English is terrible.
I was going to say start with a tasty starter.
But that doesn't mean you can't work that.
Let's just rewind time for a second.
See, appetite. It's rewind time.
We're going to we're going to
appetize out with a tasty appetizer.
Oh, it didn't work out.
OK, so the first.
Well, actually, I was going to say,
I guess I could do the whole thing.
So the first video we're going to look at is a funny thing
that got shared to me with Monday.
Matt's being asked about ifap.
And it's only like a minute or two.
It's just funny.
Second one is it's only a six minute video.
So it shouldn't take us long to get through.
And it's very amusing.
It's a it's a guy essentially destroying the argument
about being objective about movies.
But this one isn't it doesn't even feel like it's addressing us at all.
But I'm pretty sure it is because it shows us in the video.
But it's it's it's an amusing video.
And it'll be fun to talk about.
It'll be the conversation with I Hate Everything, which is like an hour long.
And I imagine there'll be minimal pausing for clarification.
But that'll be the weirdest part of our podcast ever because we will be running
a podcast while podcasting technically.
And yeah, yeah.
After that, we'll look at the Star Wars Episode Nine Colin Trevorrow script.
We're not looking at the whole thing.
I know the whole thing has been released.
We're going to look at the plot summary and just talk about some of the ideas.
I'm not going to.
Like I said, not going through the whole thing like if I can.
At that point, we may as well start going through just fan fictions.
Right. Because that's essentially what it became by not being officialized
because that's kind of how we work it, right?
But we will we will talk about the specific line that I've been told about
because that line is fucking hilarious.
And at the end of all that, we've got whether or not a quote comes from movie
Bob or a Nazi.
And he's so excited that one has been that one has been pushed
through loads of different potential episodes.
I'm hoping we get to it this one.
But if we don't, it will definitely be gotten to eventually.
And that is the promise of more related content.
I will always things get delayed, but they always eventually come out.
That is that is the thing that happens.
All right. Even if it takes till I'm like 90 years old.
So we have to try, please.
Just got a selection of memes first, and then we're going to be moving
on to that Monday, my video, right?
So the first wonderful one is we got a.
I mean, it's representative episode nine.
I think I like it.
No, no. I'm going to play with you anymore.
I mean, this is this is an unrelated meme,
but it does have something to do with media and cinema.
Oh, OK. Oh, Jesus.
Oh, oh, no.
I think it's what's what's incredible is that it gets worse the longer you look at it.
Yeah. You know what? Right now.
It's just more of a ways to interpret. And that's bad.
I'm not in that rat.
I think people assume that when I have my day off, I go outside
down a chair and I let my legs go loose, which are very, very long.
Oh, that's the world's tallest man.
You guess that's me.
Yeah. Well, I'm like, you're mad.
Think of how big that chair is.
That lady over there is like, man, that guy is big.
That's what she's thinking.
That's what she's. Oh, this is like a she had.
That's like a claspers those little legs.
What is happening in these?
Is that just like the actual people with too many legs with these?
I love a matter of fact that is like, I agree, Rex. I agree.
Who would you rather be of those two?
One extra leg.
Yeah, for the dude, I guess.
Yeah, I think so.
I think he would be able to get around better because it looks like
her right most leg is fucked up.
I think she's just turning it a bit.
No, no, like you could.
No, look at the knee.
Look at how the knee and the foot are like on different sides of the leg.
That leg is fucked up.
Yeah, it's like I was thinking you would balance yourself easier
with four legs, but then I see that busted one and I'm starting to reconsider.
Yeah, and the other two, they can't reach the ground.
If I was if I was the dude, I'd just pretend to be a destroyer droid.
This is this is the Efab memes, but I can't remember what the context is.
What frog fire, frog, earth, frog, water, frog.
I guess because of the desert frog.
These are all the different other other we were we thought it was weird.
There were frogs in the desert, but apparently they're they're a thing.
Well, there's a frog, a frog in the desert.
Oh, so one's one of them wants this play in with being censored.
And then it's just like, oh.
That's in the first half, not going to lie.
See the first half of the meme, you're like, oh, God.
And then second, I was like, oh, it's just an adorable rags.
But then you could have a third slide that takes it to all different places, too.
I want to be surrounded by big titty schoolgirls on my couch.
So I got that pink pillow.
The very accurate meme.
I don't even need to have seen the animated. No.
He's not as bad as shooting himself in the head, but, you know,
she's not shot herself in the head.
She's just looking in the gun.
They say you're the best guy in the neighborhood.
Oh, it's Rogers,
which is a pretty relevant meme because I've been watching that movie.
Oh, would you be my neighbor?
A beautiful day in the neighborhood, I think it's called.
Are they? No, I played that all the documentary, right?
Oh, it's just like a film in the comics.
I remember there was. Oh, OK.
This is Vigo, the Mortensen, with his blade.
What is the meme here? Am I am I lost on level?
The being the being subtle is subtle.
So I guess they have blade blade.
It's exactly certain how it all fits together.
But I'm I've got some of the pieces jiggling around.
That's Glade Blade.
We're going to freshen up Mordor.
More than doesn't care about frogs.
So this is a falsehood, an upsetting falsehood.
I absolutely care about frogs.
One of my one of my friends is a frog,
but never like Myers, isn't he the Halloween guy?
Yes, 100 percent.
I didn't realize that they'd actually started selling muesli
in the shops with my face on it.
But, hey, we're never ready for that.
Is that illegal? Possibly.
I don't really know.
And get Jep's.
I know what I'll be watching.
We're actually planning to watch that, aren't we, Rags?
We get one of them Oscar nominees, I believe.
Oh, this is a pretty cool snapshot from that football match that we had recently.
And a great turnout, those people.
That's that's that's incredible.
Someone says settling in for an eight hour stream.
And I'm sitting here thinking, that's it.
When they get you going in a straight line and you're just.
That's OK.
I think this was when we were talking about the potential of a Jedi sniper.
Was it? Who is that?
Blue man group.
Oh, really something.
Is that even McGregor on the green?
Is it? I don't think so.
Cat, decipher this one for us.
I don't know who that is.
I feel like there are multiple layers to this meme.
I feel like this is why.
Yeah, it would make sense because he's Obi-Wan, right, Jedi sniper.
He uses a sword.
Yeah, but we were talking about the potential of a Jedi sniper.
Yeah. Mm hmm.
I guess he could moonlight as a Jedi sniper when he's not swinging
and using his lightsaber.
Me, objective, breaking down are stupid.
The argument is that my GF just pays.
Be objectively breaking down how ugly my face is and how small my dick is.
So. How is this an E-Fap meme?
Well, objectively objectively part.
Yeah. Oh, OK.
That's our word.
Yep, we own that word now.
We came up with it.
This is my OC do not steal.
Why are my kings turning into simps?
I remember that there is context with this one.
It's in relation to.
Possibly to explain your we're trying to explain to people.
No, no, no, no, it makes sense.
Just give me a second to remember, but it makes sense.
I believe it makes sense.
I believe in. I think I believe in miracles.
There's a middleman.
OK, now I understand the memes back on track.
But.
It's a good follow up, babe.
Oh, oh, I look so happy to see you.
Yeah, you have to be a young Michael Caine, though.
Oh, yeah, this is less a meme or just a funny thing for those who don't know.
Um, in the prequels, they which they've got a shot there
where they're reflecting Obi-Wan's lightsaber off the back of a window,
which is obviously not necessary, but it's a detail they added anyway,
because these lightsabers aren't actually especially the prequel ones.
They don't light up.
Um, because while they film the Rise of Skywalker and stuff like that,
they have like a little glow sticky ones.
And yeah, and when they did Rise of Skywalker, they I still like,
I've talked about this.
I don't understand how this happened.
So like in the original version, he actually had the cloak is actually there
when he's doing his thing, he's when he's fighting her, he's wearing that.
So they obviously CGI'd in his reflection into the water.
So that means that surely they would have
did done the rest of it, right?
Like, wait, wait, wait.
How do you know that he had the cloak when it was being filmed?
There's like a little behind the scenes shot that I saw with this fight.
That would make it worse, because then they would have been told
you have to CGI in the cape.
And while they were doing that, they didn't put the reflection in.
No, well, the cape, he's wearing the cape in.
Yeah, it would have been bad either way.
Oh, yeah, I'm just saying that that's the mechanics of this one.
And it's just strange.
And I'd really be curious to know if it was just the guy was like,
ah, fuck it, or if the guy was rushed or if they just said you don't need to
because no one will notice.
Skywalker.
I my guess is that we're told you don't need to.
Probably someone messed up.
Oh, it's not like it's a big deal.
What do you think this meme ranks?
Um, see, I would say we have good odds because Mando isn't exactly that competent.
But then again, we're the stormtroopers in this scenario.
So we've got no odds.
I like how they put the icons behind the there's depth of field
on the guns that he keeps, which is really good.
It's it's a good meme.
Also, I was spotted in Borderlands again, apparently.
I am Jamula.
Stop playing Borderlands.
You've got videos to make.
How do you play Minecraft?
Yeah, I'm in a video about it.
Oh, good enough.
Oh, very upsetting.
That is upsetting.
Oh, man.
So I really want to see this movie.
I don't know when it's coming out.
You got Mupa face your arguments, your opinion.
I like it just says Alfred.
Alfred?
The long man, the six year old Alfred.
The man's got some opinions.
It's this one's going to take some deciphering.
I remember a meme about blue and leaves.
What?
He's more glue than leaves now, something.
Something about I forget the context of when this was said,
but something about it.
Oh, it's like a long lost dream that I'm remembering.
Oh, it's more glue than leaves.
Do we like I could just talk about something was constructed
of glue and leaves or something.
Yeah, I'm I am attempting.
To find out.
I love how the gas mask is slapped onto the side of Luke's head.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me chat.
Love you more.
I love you too.
Random comments.
Come and join us.
Just.
That's a rich coming.
I know.
Yeah, you just don't see them anymore.
Taking it back, man.
This is a depiction of Lesbonius,
one of the many philosophers of past.
Oh, wow.
Oh, my goodness.
Looks really good.
It's a good bid.
I want to spend the time on that.
That looks so good.
I want to chat said House of Leaves from Farewell Wolf.
House of Cards, but with leaves.
Oh, OK.
He's more glue than leaves.
Anyone mentions Mandalorian and oh, it's the guy who
it's the same gas mask.
Oh, I like that version of Rags.
That is funny.
It shows bad.
I like this one.
What was he thinking when he said that?
You know, like part way through the video,
I think all thought went out the window.
Those really weird padded windows made of construction paper.
I don't know what was going on back there.
This is a good thing.
What is happening in this meme?
Decide for it.
So what was talking about?
Yeah, I was like, if you were working in an Applebee's,
who would you rather have as your manager, Ray or Kylo?
And we're in and we were all literal.
It was obviously Ray because I don't want Kylo to flip out and start killing people.
Yeah, but he's bound by the laws of the land.
He's not leader at all order.
He's I don't think he'd care.
Shut up. Yeah.
And if you hire Ray, all she has to do is just kind of flick her wrists
and it will become like the greatest Applebee's location in all the land.
For no reason.
Regenerate money, like mind from a boy.
We show T.L.J. to Patrick and he's like, OK with it.
Then we show Joker and he fucking is terrified.
He's isn't terrible.
You don't have to say that it's coming from her butt. All right.
Well, he's like Ray, but food, Ray, but food, Ray, but food, Ray, but food.
I'd eat it.
I like this.
This fucking one.
You want to tell me a joke?
Ironic, you wouldn't get it.
This was done after that weird video movie Bob made.
If you guys have seen it where he's like in a big outfit.
Just it's just a really weird video.
Oh, yeah, I remember seeing that.
That's literally movie Bob's best video.
What the fuck you said?
Still, the best video can be weird, Jay, racist.
No, I can't.
Also, that is kind of racist, Jay, weird of the day.
Hierophant, a person who explains one who defends or maintains a causal proposal.
Wow, that's a word you don't hear enough considering what it means.
Yeah, it's one of those oldie goldies.
One of those ones we use it and someone's like, what's wrong with you?
Like, oh, someone drew me on a thing.
I remember the context of this one saying that it was like a board.
You could draw anything on.
And someone someone drew a long man.
Oh, he's got coffee, Tim.
Yeah, I'm not alone.
I can smell the sweet scent of coffee, Tim.
He looks like it looks like he's a rat.
Someone's baby Yona and a stocking.
Yes, I think so.
I dig it.
I like I want it to be either.
Then there's this one.
I was hacked.
And I think Porgas made this.
He was on the super check catch up recently.
That alien is gloriously attractive.
So you're a high quality alien?
I mean, no, no, no, no.
That one, that one's like a step up, though.
I like the dirty quality one.
Yeah, keep it for now.
But I like I like that, too.
Also, this. Yeah, you'll like this.
Well, that's very dramatic.
I don't know what's going to happen.
It's like, I get punched to death.
And that's the American.
Oh, I guess it was like a Resident Evil or something.
I don't know.
That's the Resident Evil three remake that's coming out soon.
I'm really looking forward to that. Sorry.
Why am I in shades?
This this feels like a BDSM thing.
And maybe it's an.
So it's a it's a persona five reference.
The velvet explain it to me in detail in detail.
I will try.
So, OK, the velvet room is where your characters level up.
And the guy in the cell is your main character known as Joker.
Um, I don't know.
I don't know the parallels between E.R.
and Mahler in terms of persona five, but
maybe it's just because you are likes anime.
So now you're stuck with it mostly makes sense to me.
He's a way because why are you chained up?
I don't know. Like I said, we lack that comes.
I don't want to like spoil the game or nothing.
So you figure it out toward the end.
When we were talking about the folly of using dinosaurs
in your army or whatever for like modern combat,
then we were like, you don't have to feed your bullets.
Someone did a rendition of having to do such things.
You little bullets just eating what looked like small bullets.
That's so cute.
You got to keep them well.
I want to I want to see this.
Look, my gun was crying in the previous one.
It was like we're hungry.
I look genuinely like afraid for them.
Like, oh, my God.
Sorry, I didn't feed.
I'm so sorry, bullets.
This is a big mashup.
Oh, my God.
If I can get the shades
and the gas mask at the same time.
The stick like weapon, of course.
Rhino milk on the back.
If I chat is like a key chain, which is pretty cool.
The Isle of Man flag, of course.
If I can use unstoppable.
The art of war and your brain.
I'm fucking awesome.
Then this one was previously black and white,
and now it's in color.
Oh, oh, dude.
Oh, wow. Look at this.
I had watched that show.
Dude, this is sick.
Let's say this on the robot dogs.
There's a little tonal on the robot dog at the right now.
A robot. Oh, it is.
Sorry. No, no, no.
It was scrolled out of frame for me.
My bad.
I got it. So Jay is part of it.
He's like a robot.
He's got the big tank of rhino milk.
You've got a beanie.
It's like we have the main manufacturer,
but I think I've got my own life if I choose to.
Wait, although I am like
I think I have to take the minor milk canisters off my back.
Yeah, I think you're just pumping that out of directly of the rhino
unless the rhino is powered by it and you bring the milk to it.
Oh, no, I think I'm powered by the rhino milk.
Very well.
So you got Eden Paladin.
We have Mahler there.
And then Stowelsgill.
Who's the dude on the right?
That's Nudrotic.
Mm hmm. He's going to be so short.
Is he a shortman IRL?
I think it's because we put him as Gimli and
we're doing a Lord of the Rings thing back like several efaps ago.
I really like the wolf spirit next to me.
Yes, coming out of your sword.
It's coming out of your sword.
Yeah, I really like that.
Oh, I thought that was I thought that was like spider on the gun.
There's a spider on the helmet down there.
So you have you have a sword that's like that contains the spirit of wolf.
Apparently.
Is it could call the sword wolf's bite?
Is there a higher resolution version of this?
You can just if you just open original.
That's what I was doing originally.
And that's why I asked of myself and thought that was a robot dog
because a rhino head was cut out.
I was looking over to the right.
Who drew this? What's the name?
It's like a big idiots on his weapon that I don't know the name of.
There's no signature on this.
I can find out the name one.
Uno momento.
You just read it, motherfuckers.
You got to sign the master master's Lou.
I will master's Lou.
At least that was a great job.
I think that was the handle on Twitter.
Yes. All right. Wonderful stuff.
That's true.
Good job, Lou.
You should sign your work more so no people know where you're at
because this is some good shit right here.
Nerd Rotic's axe just says big idiots on it.
Naturally. Yeah, I saw that.
Why wouldn't it, Jay? Hmm. Yeah.
Yeah. So is this is this a game or is this a TV show or an anime?
Really, it's all of them.
It's a media conglomerate that just covers everything.
It's a TV show to move the TV show to me.
I'm not going to complain about that. I like it. Wow.
And that is the end of portion one of which
I think there's going to be about six of those about that size
for us to get through all of it.
Well, it'll be peppered throughout.
And that is how you properly pace memes.
See, if that podcast has pacing now, that's how that's how much funding
we've gotten from from our local militia.
Generous are. Yeah.
You can call you up, chat that, right?
You're a local militia.
Now, that's what I call pod racing.
Yes. All right.
Now for chapter two of the Women Haters podcast.
What's next? I hate women.
Well, I mean, just like I'm not going to say that you guys do hate women,
but did you are you interested in seeing Beers of Prey?
No, I don't know.
How about that?
Again, not saying nothing.
But I mean, that is that is a women film.
Hey, any of you guys seen Little Women?
No, what a coincidence.
And let me guess, you saw Captain Manpower's new movie from Marvel this year, right?
Captain Captain Manpower is the hero I made up a few faps ago.
Oh, he throws slabs of meat at people and he has like
two giant mini guns in his hand or something.
I can't imagine them in the spreader.
Oh, no. I want to watch that.
That's what I mean, because you're misogynists.
You'll watch Captain Manpower, but you won't watch Little Women.
All right. Oh, no.
He just lays down on all the benches so that nobody can sit.
He sits in the center of a train and extends his legs all the way through the tree.
Not to help us.
You don't understand.
It's not that I am not watching Little Women.
It's not because I hate women.
It's because I hate little people.
All right, what do we think about that?
Is that offensive?
It's too small. The double whammy, then.
Yeah, I was going to say, there's some kind of offense going on there,
but I just have to figure it out.
Also, I think. Yeah. Yeah.
Well, we'll come back to that.
We'll shame you on Twitter later.
Slowly. As long as you get to it.
Jay, are you are you concerned about some of your controversial tweets
being brought up again once you're a super famous person?
Like, for example, saying Spaceballs is boring?
No, when you run for president and then they're like,
I would like to expose Senator Exi for his.
They won't have to expose me for that, because it will be my main policy.
Oh, so you're going to lose.
Yeah. So what you want.
Do you really think you're going to be able to win the vote
by running on Spaceballs being boring?
I'm pretty sure if you just came out and said, you know what?
I'm pro ISIS. That would go over better with people.
I think Spaceballs is boring.
Well, people are scared of the truth, Rex.
And I don't know, man.
Senator Exi sounds like the end boss of Metal.
You're rising to or something.
If that ever comes out. Exi.
Yeah. You do some kind of villainous, Jay.
And I'm just saying the only policy you've ran on
is a very villainous policy, too.
It's because I hate women.
But you hate women.
That's why you don't like Spaceballs, of course,
because there is a woman in that, I think.
All comes together. Women have to check. Yeah.
No, disappointing isn't really good enough to sum up how I feel about you, Jay.
Um, I hope you know that.
Barely a film.
Robert gave Birds of Prey a nine out of ten.
Nine. I thought it was eight.
Which I'm which I'm not at all surprised.
Consume. Well, I heard that he made like the comment that like,
unlike Joker, it's actually like trying to say something or whatever.
I was like, Oh, God.
Oh, yes, of course.
The incredible message of Birds of Prey as opposed to Joker,
which doesn't have anything to say.
It's just like if he's obviously going to argue, it's like, yeah, you know,
misogyny is a problem.
I'll be like, what a great message.
You can sum it up for us in one sentence.
I love how like Joker probably did that message better than Birds of Prey
in terms of like, I haven't seen it yet.
But the idea of like, what would solve misogyny?
It's like if everybody was trying to each other to a degree, probably.
It's like, no, bullshit.
It sounds like eugenics. Duh.
Well, I mean, have you have have have eugenics ever failed?
Yeah, real eugenics just hasn't been tried yet.
Exactly. That's true. Very, very true.
Very, very true. All right.
Anyway, I suppose it's like a freshman.
It will, because the French often talk about truth, don't they?
Le truth is what they call it.
Like I think most other places on the planet prefer lies
because lies are like more realistic.
You're pretending to be French to give yourself more credibility.
That's pretty.
No, I'm aspiring to be a French because they are the honesty's.
You mean like Joker aspires to be taxi driver?
I was going to say there was like rags before I want to say.
So it was like, no, no, he apparently isn't very good.
I was going to wait for you to say, like, why would Joker want to do that?
Or something, something snappy, you know, but you know what they need to do
in the sequel is have Joker like pose as a taxi driver just once.
I mean, he was hit by a taxi in the movie.
That counts for something, right?
Oh, that's that's he's he's constantly.
That metaphorically means the taxi driver fucking ran over Joker
in terms of how good it is.
Oh, it's a metaphor. It's genius.
I think it's pronounced metal for.
But OK. What is metal for?
Um. I guess we should be.
I don't know if it's too controversial to talk about Mel's beliefs.
He is German.
Germans aren't allowed to have beliefs after that incident.
Mm hmm. You know the one.
It's over, man.
All right.
Let me let me throw out this this little room to y'all the you all.
Let's begin y'all.
Here's y'all. Let us begin.
So the context for this, I guess, is that Mr.
Mundane, Matt, had like a call in show, I guess.
I don't know. We would call into that.
Oh, why would he do that?
Why would he, of all people, think that's a good idea?
You'd think that. Yeah. Right.
You'd be like the bat.
People will say things.
Why, though?
Oh, I have to go to close enough.
I really wonder how many bolder references were snuck in there.
Oh, probably looking at infinite.
Yeah, I was just at it about this is
is that there's mention of us.
I think it's like it's only the first half of the video as well.
So we got to.
All right. I already got a call coming in. Let's find out.
Oh, my God. Hey, how's it going?
You hear me? I can.
Oh, how's it going?
It's going to allow your work.
Why would anyone say that, Rags? Jesus.
What work?
And what work?
I am a I'm a I'm a streamer.
I'm a big fan of yours.
I think I recognize this voice.
Do you recognize my voice?
Kind of. I think this is Flamenco if I had to guess.
No, I'm actually James also.
I've also heard that I'm sound like Mr.
Medeker. No, no, I don't hear that at all.
But I'll sip.
I'm fully aware.
No, are you are you are you a fan of Efap?
No, are you not?
I don't even know what that is.
Oh, OK. Have you ever heard of a channel called Mahler?
I know of Mahler.
I don't watch this content.
Oh, is there a reason why you don't watch this content?
Yeah, I'm not going to sit through an hour and a half review of a movie
I've already seen.
OK, I fucking will.
If someone's got something to say, I fucking will.
Yeah, man, dude.
I feel like even he would
easily be roped into making that, you know, like a stream sort of thing.
Yeah, it's not unreasonable stream.
Oh, that's different, I see.
I just I find, you know, I go for a movie or there down.
It doesn't really matter.
It's I've just never been interested in that kind of stuff.
So all right.
People tell me it's good.
I haven't. There's nothing there I've really seen.
That is your take on.
What is your take on objectivity versus subjectivity and film critique?
God, he sounds familiar.
I think that you should clearly be more objective overall than.
But you can never get away from the subjective mindset.
That's a good. So I mean, I prefer objectivity.
But then again, if it's like if you're doing more of a deep dive,
I can see the subjective nature of it.
It just depends whether or not I align with that subjective nature.
And if I want to sit through that particular viewpoint.
Is there is there is there a specific
is there a specific film that you subjectively like,
but you think is subjectively bad and vice versa?
Oh, there's plenty of films that I like subjectively like that are pretty terrible.
Yeah. OK. And I got I got to ask,
would you be willing to go on to eFap?
I think they've I think they're big fans of your work.
No, they're not big. I know they're not fans of my work.
Never heard of them. OK, hold on a minute.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Exclamation mark. Thank you.
Contradiction has been spotted.
You wish maybe.
I think that's what this video is about to do.
It's going to play a back to back.
Are you a fan of eFap?
No, he's.
Are you not?
I don't even know what that is.
Don't even know. They're not.
I know they're not.
Oh, but he knows that.
I have no real.
I mean, you could potentially find out we're not fans of his work,
while also not knowing what we are.
Is that possible, though?
He doesn't even know that there's no room there.
But I don't think I don't think I think it looks good.
Let's say that.
I think he's a fucking snake because he's mundane.
And he has a whole career.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
You say he's not trustworthy.
Like a charitable way to see it would be.
He's familiar at least like he is a fucking lying snake.
Don't give him an inch.
I mean, yeah.
Oh, shit.
Oh, also, I don't know if it's.
I'm going to play it until it doesn't show this,
but I've muted it on our side in case.
Oh, I don't.
I don't doubt that for a second.
A lot of people actually watch me.
No, they don't say that.
People know how many people watch you.
If only there was a way to verify.
Someone's popular, what a fucking liar.
But I don't have a desire to go on there now because it's not.
It's not necessarily the type of environment that I feel would be
the most conducive to anything.
So now I'm good.
Are you are you very happy?
Wait, wait, he knows what kind of environment it is.
OK, yeah, now we know he's definitely.
Yeah, now it's definitely falling apart.
Now we know.
Yeah, hey, man, it's definitive
proof versus obvious proof.
Yeah, because at first I thought he was drawing the parallel between Mahler
and then he knew Mahler was just not the podcast.
But now it sounds like he knows exactly what he's talking about.
And he was lying about it and just didn't want to go into it.
But then he was pressed into it.
Someone said, I get you guys don't want to be charitable, but honestly,
his takes isn't even his take isn't even that bad.
What he said about objectivity and subjectivity was not that bad at all.
We didn't pause or criticize it because I felt like it was fine.
I literally said that's a good take.
Yeah, Jay actually said it was the only comment that was made about it.
I'm kind of shocked in a way that he made a decent take on.
It's hard to fuck it up.
Like we should strive for objectivity, but we can't fully escape this objective.
Yeah.
Good job. I mean, you hit that softball.
He's a serious fence sitter.
Eventually, he's going to get something.
No, yeah.
He remember when the whole Crowder Vox thing happened.
Oh, oh, that's right.
He took no Carlos Maza.
I'm trying to be.
I'm trying, but this guy, man.
This guy, man, this guy will see a guy.
Does the dream just die?
Tommy Peso didn't get his chant it.
Channel, take it away.
I don't think I don't think we come up again now, but yeah,
I thought that was amusing.
Don't worry, Matt, you'll always have a place on.
Uh, you know, if you're welcome to come on whenever you can manage.
Welcome to come on my tits.
Welcome to the bone zone.
That's what we'll say.
Welcome to the bone zone.
He's going to be like, what?
Wait, sort of chat said cinema, cinema, diabetes,
Joe and Jack Saint are going at it about birds of prey.
They disagree.
I typed in cinema.
It's like, no, no, no.
Movie, Robert movie, Bob, cinema, Roberto.
Where can I find this guy?
She knew my Roberto.
Are they? I'm curious if because I don't even know what each of them
think about it necessarily.
Well, I guess I've heard that Robert thinks it's a nine out of 10, which.
Wow.
Nine out of 10.
If that's if they say going at it, does that mean that Jack Saint disagrees?
Well, yeah, that's what I was expecting.
But I don't know. Maybe I don't see any.
I don't see any back and forth from them here.
Oh, well, let me link this.
Ooh, ooh.
So Jack said, I guess I can put this on screen.
An astonishingly busy praise, astonishingly fun time.
Margot Robbie is for Harley Quinn.
What Ryan Reynolds is for Deadpool.
Even McGregor is perfect.
Harley Quinn is canonically a Bernie bro.
This is like the perfect antidote to Captain Marvel's cynical,
clinical take on a feminist superhero movie.
Really hope people check it out.
And then he said, can we not?
There's a reason.
There's no reason to do this.
Even setting aside how gross it is to play into the all women must be
set us against all other women always what?
Wait, all women must be set against all other women always.
What is that?
So no, Jack likes it and Bob doesn't wait, but well, they both like it, right?
Well, they both like it, but it looks like when Jack Saint mentioned Captain Marvel,
that's what set Robert off.
But what is what is this?
All women must be set against all other women always thing.
What is that?
I guess it happens with men all the time.
DC just doing studio marketing for them for free.
Why do that?
You don't owe them.
What?
Why would you immediately what is he going on about?
Yeah, about Jack's side with that one in terms of what the fuck Bob's doing.
Obviously, I haven't seen the movie, so I don't know what's.
Yeah, but I don't see any indication for him to go on about that.
Whatever, dude.
She's so in his own head.
Something also, I guess, Jack's heart.
I think back to him, then that movie reviews are a form of free studio
marketing as well, so it's like, yeah, Bob, by reviewing them, you're doing the same
thing, but movie was not exactly well known for level headed takes.
They're saying what what I'm using.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean it.
Sorry.
All right, since that was like very small from Matt, let's do this.
Let's do this now.
Since that was like very small from Matt, let's do this.
Let's do this next one as well.
And then we'll do some more film image here.
This one shall be a lot more interesting.
I imagine you know, let's say that that's racism.
That's your opinion in the 1978 film, Superman, the movie by Richard Donner.
Almost nobody flies.
Lois Lane, Jimmy Olsen, Lex Luthor, Perry White, a whole host of other characters.
I like I don't know if he was expecting more of a reaction.
I just be like, OK,
fly. Yeah, don't fly.
For the first act of the film, nobody flies at all.
But even on Krypton, the planet Superman is from then in the second act.
Something else. Can we talk about the fucking borders that he's got here?
I don't like it.
I was. Oh, I couldn't tell what they were at first,
but they're Superman's groin.
Well, Superman got his powers from the Earth's sun.
Well, hang on.
I don't even we hear his argument first, I guess, in full,
because I'm not even sure he's got with this.
But apparently, because I haven't seen this movie fucking forever.
So no one can fly, not even on Krypton, but Superman.
Can anyone else?
No, it's not pause for you.
No, it didn't pause through any of that.
It just kept going.
And I had to pause it.
So, yeah, rewind it to whatever time it needs to go.
Is it is it working for you now, Riggs?
It's at 19 seconds and it's paused.
Hey, there we go. OK, I'll even rewind them a bit more.
But yeah, I would have preferred the blackboard as myself.
But you know what Superman's groin.
Something stylistic choice for the first act of the film.
Nobody flies at all.
But even on Krypton, the planet Superman is from.
Then in the second act, something absolutely shocking happens.
Superman, having learned about the full extent of his powers,
lifts off the ground and so I might have to be careful
with copyright here as well.
I'll be with how long these clips are.
Sores away.
This is overwhelmingly not remembered as poor writing.
Despite the fact that nobody in the film flies before this,
nobody else flies throughout the film, and nothing really indicates
as if man will be able to fly before this point.
So I'd have to see the film to know.
But unless there's a rule that says he can't.
Then yeah, and again, I think the reason is that he
gets his power from Earth's sun and he even has to go out to recharge.
Like find a space to go and that's the thing.
I'm not up on my Superman law, but I'm pretty sure the Earth's sun
makes him much more powerful than he would be otherwise.
He uses photosynthesis.
Well, typically, I don't under I don't think Superman
has ever had to stand out there in the sun and just like absorb
on a lawn chair or anything like that.
I think just being on Earth is enough for the guy.
But as for this specific film, I don't know what the specific lines
of justification are for this happening.
But as long as it doesn't cancel out anything else,
it wouldn't be considered poor writing.
There might be an argument for like set up as in like
if we were to watch a movie where a guy just starts flying
because that's him at his peak powers, but even then
was established that someone has supernatural powers and they fly.
You're not like, oh, what is happening?
If we were following a nondescript.
Well, let's just call them dude, bro.
And he's like, I'm getting more and more powerful as the days go by.
First of all, I could start running much faster than I ever could before.
And then I much stronger.
I can I don't know.
My reflex is a way stronger.
I can start.
I looked at something intensely and I burned it.
I have laser eyes at that point.
I'd be like, yeah, flying is not going to be out of the question.
If you've got all of those things going on, which.
Yeah, I was just thinking about Spider-Man, right?
Like when Ramey's Spider-Man came out, it's just like you're getting
all these different powers unloaded because just like, well, what is this one?
What is this one? What is this one?
And funnily enough, depending on the Spider-Man, different things will happen.
I don't know if that applies to Superman.
I think almost every iteration of Superman is basically have the same powers.
Ice breath is the one I find funny.
Ice breath. Yeah, he's just going to like puff it up his cheeky.
Hey, man. I don't know, man.
Laser eyes just seems like fucking dirty broken.
What if you freeze someone with your ice breath
and then puncture a hole right through them with the with the ice
and laser eyes and blow them up?
Wouldn't that be awesome?
Superman can't do that. That would be pretty sweet.
And he did it to innocent people regularly.
That's how I would do it.
This nobody else flies throughout the film, and nothing really indicates
that Superman will be able to fly before this point.
There is a textual reason why Superman can fly, of course.
He's really light.
OK, or maybe. What was that a joke?
Oh, is this people trying to explain superpowers?
Plausible explanation.
So it seems like fan theories.
Again, again, with the normal gravity of the species
developed in a natural anti gravity organ.
Well, they don't need to explain how it works if it's fucking super power,
just like you don't have to explain mutants,
just like you don't have to explain.
I invented scientific device in my universe that does X.
You just all you have to do is state that that's how that's what it is.
Because like superheroes are a subgenre for fantasy, right?
So how they're categorized.
So in a way, sure.
I thought they were supposed to be sci-fi.
Well, I suppose they're flexible with that because it's complicated.
There's a lot of magic in superhero stuff, but there's also,
especially these days, loads of sci-fi in them.
Yeah. And then, of course, you could argue that he's trying to explain it
using Earth science when Superman's not from Earth, so.
Well, yeah, I don't I don't remember anybody trying to do this.
Like with with lots of heroes, it's just like if they're established
as a superpower, it's like a lot of other things with writing.
You just go, that's the power.
It's just something that Earth science can't really explain fully
is ain't from her. Yeah, the theory would go.
Like, is it is it impossible for us to one day meet humanoid like creatures
from a different galaxy that have all the powers of Superman
because their biology allows them to do such things and be like, oh,
yeah, I get it.
Well, no, we have no idea, right?
Because well, yeah, it's like it would be currently unexplainable by science.
The point that this fiction is doing is he's an alien.
Therefore, you don't we don't have enough information on aliens
to be like, you can't do these things.
Yeah, we do have like we do have an understanding of how like gravity works.
So for him to be able to fly, he would have to have, you know,
he would have to violate some scientific rule we already know.
Well, that's the thing. Those things do eventually happen.
For example, with Ant-Man, we're OK that he has technology that can shrink him.
And then I'm saying it doesn't fit within our current understanding of science.
I can interrupt me a piece of shit.
I was about to support your point.
So we're OK with Ant-Man being able to shrink.
But when they establish in the film that he maintains his like,
he has the density order, basically, even as a fucking tic-tac,
he has the power of a full man's punch.
Right. And of course, that allows him to do superhero stuff while he's small.
The problem is that that means he should have the weight as well.
And so if you're a tic-tac with the weight of a human,
whatever you're running around, you're probably going to be able to.
A lot of things should be happening.
It's kind of the point.
And when you like jump into somebody's hand, for example, they'll be like,
whoa, what the fuck?
So that's where you can highlight issues.
Is as soon as they start trying to quantify how certain things work
in certain ways to justify other things, you'll be like, hey, hang on a minute.
But if you just go, this is an alien who can fly, you're like, OK.
Keep going where you go with this.
He has anti-gravity organs, or maybe he can will.
I love anti-gravity organs.
He can will himself to fly.
His psionic sense allows him to shape and manipulate his energy in a way
that he that he can not only fly, but.
So he's still criticizing.
I mean, if this stuff was in the movies, we could probably go through it.
But I just this is just fans, I guess, probably.
Yeah, so not much to go on.
Well, I think the point he's making is that there's not an explanation
in the movie, so the fans have to write it for it.
There's no required explanation.
As long as we understand that that's his power.
Yeah, well, self in different directions with psionic energy.
It doesn't really matter.
A reference, by the way, like him being an alien is what does this.
If you said he was a human and he just had these powers,
we would forever be like, so mutants.
Was he hit with a radioactive thing?
Why? As long as it's acknowledged that it is unusual.
So it's like if it was just set up in the beginning, it's like this guy
can fly in science, doesn't understand why, then that would be fine.
Actually, yeah, that would work as well.
It would be more so if they ever did the ant man thing
and establish something where we're like, hey, hang on, that don't make no sense.
Text you. Why is it like?
As long as it's not just like you can fly and everyone treats that
like it's not unusual or no, I guess if everyone treated like it wasn't unusual,
then that would be world building, I guess.
But because it wouldn't be unusual in that.
Well, as long as it's not unusual,
but they didn't explain anything about it to me, that'd be doubly weird.
I guess if it was well built as all this is just a thing that happened
this world and it's happened before, or if it's just like, you know,
there are if there are contradictions in there, that both are possible.
That would be a huge departure from our world and a very basic kind of thing.
So they need they would have to say if nobody thought this was weird
is like widest note, who else flies?
Why do they not think this is odd?
Also, hi, Nodrotic, I'm Jay Longbone.
How you folks doing?
Good to have you, Superman.
I was going to say, because these could be that would be a fun story.
Like you just have a story that runs on it, but like random
different people just can fly.
And there's never any acknowledgement of how strange that is.
It's just running, running as if normal.
You'd be like, depends on what the story is about.
I suppose for us to be like, is anyone going to acknowledge the fact
that people can fly?
I don't know. It just seems fucking weird.
The matter textually, why Superman can fly?
The much more important reason no one is surprised when Superman flies
is the metatextual one.
This is a Superman movie and you don't want to see a Superman movie
where Superman doesn't fly.
It's not it's not just Superman that applies to that would just be across
the board genre and writing rules.
Why you could do this with a shit ton of things, right?
Like, actually, I would even say that's a justification.
Like, it's not that he can fly because this is a Superman movie.
That's a strange way to categorize it.
Plus, isn't this isn't he criticizing the first Superman movie ever made?
Right now, yeah, I think so.
So if that were the case, nobody would be able to draw off
of an established character if this is the first seeing of him in the comics.
I suppose, yeah, he'd be referencing the people who knew Superman
from the comics at that point.
OK, but like I suppose saying it's he's Superman.
That's why he can fly is like a shorter version of saying, well,
he's an alien and he has several powers.
These are his powers.
There you go.
And if someone was like, that's bad, I'd be like, why?
And I go, oh, because you don't explain how the powers work.
I'd be like, you don't necessarily need to explain how anything necessarily works
unless it is extremely relevant to understanding something at some point.
Just like X works this way.
I mean, he I don't think there is any Superman content
that tries to argue how his powers work, right?
Blade Runner, you knew here, bud.
Oh, wait, why? What do you think?
He's like, he's not even finished talking.
Why did they pause? Why?
First time, first time.
I just want to talk about him saying
we don't see it as a problem because it's a Superman movie.
If this is so you keep you keep going to say super head
and then correcting Superhand.
I mean, I like Han Solo.
I guess he's got super hands.
Uh, yeah, so I was going to say like a bright burn, for example,
is is maybe that's not a good example
because that's almost clearly trying to do an inverse of Superman.
So we just see random movie and we kind of described it earlier.
It's just alien lands or there's a genetic experiment
or someone falls into a vat of toxic chemicals.
It's all classic one.
The point being that through things that we don't necessarily 100 percent
understand against much likelihood, a thing happened that
where science can't explain that maybe one day could be.
And it's funny because you can return to all the stuff sometimes and be like,
oh, so that was bullshit if they make certain assertions
about things we don't actually know yet.
But this is an alien from Krypton.
You've already got a shit ton of stuff to work with at that point.
But I do want to remind everybody like literal magic
isn't necessarily bad writing in fiction.
And obviously, what I'm saying with that is magic is not real like that's.
What? Yeah.
So if we stuck all the way back at like, it's not realistic, they feel bad.
I got news for you.
Lots of news.
Big old news bulletin.
I suppose we'll kick on a bit, see what else it says.
Want to see a Superman movie where Superman doesn't fly?
It's an essential part of the character.
In fact, it's so essential.
I don't know. I don't think so.
It's the iconic part, isn't it?
You know, I guess the essential.
Yeah, but not essential.
But I was going to clarify, like I've seen all of Smallville.
He doesn't fly until like season
like he doesn't learn how to do flying properly until really late,
like season seven or eight or something.
He flies at one point in season like I want to say three,
but it's like once and it's he doesn't understand entirely how he did it.
Um, point being, you spend a lot of time with the character of Superman
slash Clark Kent slash Kal-El without the flight.
And it works because I think all of us will probably agree.
It's like you can do Superman without his ability to fly.
You can do you do without all of his powers.
That could be super interesting.
In fact, that's probably something they did several times in the film.
Man, man.
It's an essential part of the character.
In fact, it's so essential.
The tagline of the movie is you'll believe a man can fly.
A culture has evolved online trying to push for.
Oh, no, there we are.
Huh? Oh, no. Hey.
Also, in one of those, we're just talking about Avengers Endgame.
Drew's. Yeah, that's bad.
I'm sorry.
Also, what are these other references we got?
Geeks and Gamers, Geeks and Gamers, CinemaSins.
Who's in a sense doesn't believe in objectivity, surely?
I really don't think so values.
Oh, yeah, I don't know.
Well, I don't know. You would know.
Has he has has he spoken on that before?
I've never said anything to my knowledge, because like, you know,
he said things that I haven't.
I've not listened to his every word,
but I've never heard him say anything about objective things.
Yeah, I'm just going to roll him back.
What was he saying about this selection?
And if the movie is, you'll believe a man can fly.
A culture has evolved online, trying to push for objective discussion
in art criticism, this culture has people trying to assert
that their opinions about media were objectively correct.
Here we go.
We can go.
You think some tiny, teeny little bit of.
Some teeny, tiny little
understanding about what you're talking about would be cool.
I'm objectively right in all of my opinions.
That's a good sound.
We'll say that, but we've never said that a single time.
Everyone else is wrong.
Shifting to the stance that it's fine for other people to have their subject.
This is what Quinton said two years ago.
Catch up, dude.
I mean, of other or their opinions, their objective, the opinions of others.
Oh, no.
Those are subjective.
They don't want the way he said it stuck in my mind, because it's so like.
Smiley shut up.
It's like he says it with this loser.
He says it with this lispful look in his eyes, like.
No, we've never said that.
Opinions, but that a piece of value could be measured
in some of the measures, the value of art.
When have you ever gone, oh, yes, this art has three value.
Also, I care what is objectively true.
We all we constantly talk about the things we take away personally from stuff.
Yeah, all the time.
Lots of lots of stuff.
We talk about how something appealed to us, maybe more.
We can't argue for something more referential, definitive.
And we're just like, you know, I don't know.
I just it appeals to me or vice versa.
It really fucking doesn't appeal to me because it's filled with women.
Oh, no.
Well, we can't have that.
Which were the criteria these people valued more, for example,
when a fictional world establishes rules, but then breaks those rules,
that is objectively by the definition of rules.
Like an idiot, especially when there's no explanation
as to why the rules are broken, they just are.
And there you go.
You literally just have to go through definitions.
OK, what do you define?
Bad writing.
OK, define, define, define.
OK. Maybe fuck it.
I don't care.
You don't care enough.
I've had this I've had this conversation enough times.
Bad writing.
Now, even putting aside the fundamental fact that stories and art in general
can be absolutely what I say they want.
You never once said they couldn't.
Oh, he's going to say the most successful things to this.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Oh, this is the problem.
His video is so incredibly tiny that we're never going to get to many references.
So it's a shame.
But, oh, well, yeah, because I was going to say, like,
we could have conversations about all the ones that he considers surreal.
And I would quantify such things.
We don't go to an argument yet.
The fundamental people believe that he's just going to give him a space.
He's only he's only a third in like we might get.
This is the pledge you see.
He's about to do the turn and then we will get the prestige.
That's how it works.
Like the stories and art in general can be absolutely whatever they want.
Even putting aside that you remember how we said art can't be what it wants.
That's the thing that we said.
All those things that we said.
Mm hmm. What does that even mean?
The criticism of the last Jedi is that it's not allowed to exist.
Naughty last Jedi hit with a newspaper.
The fact that some of the most successful and powerful storytelling
has been done without firmly established rules,
even ignoring that there's examples of everything subtextual and thematic
and art to be thrown out, guys, subtextual and thematic.
I really hate because I feel like they devalue a lot of what like
some really definitive, detailed and well plotted theming,
like like putting things into your thing to make it make sense with a through line.
Because all it needs to be is the message was either something
they think is a good message or a bad message.
It doesn't matter how it was executed, which I think is a fucking waste.
It would be my primary go to for that one, I would say.
Yeah, definitely.
Um, anyway, even ignoring that this point of view
throws out everything subtextual and thematic and art.
No, it doesn't. Fuck off.
No, it doesn't.
It recognizes when it's done poorly,
when it puts a theme above the established rules,
when you have done poor writing just to serve as a thing.
And this feels, um, you get an idea.
Uh, this is going to suspiciously close as well, too, right?
So we have we have seen character A.
I think I can't if I did on this sunny fat before or not,
but let's just have character A is watching character B enter a room
and there's a guy in there and a gun in there.
You hear a gun go off and he walks out and then it's credits.
So did he shoot the guy in there?
Did he shoot the guy in general?
The blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's all up to interpretation, right?
And then someone says to you, see, you can't say objectively
he killed someone or objectively he didn't.
We'd be like, yeah.
And then they're like, wait, what?
The crazy straw man version of objectivity.
I'm just trying to like, that's like the first tier, right?
But then you can extend that into
what did it mean when a character saw a mutated version
of his own dead wife in the middle of the room?
Was it his haunted memories coming back to him?
Or was it she's actually become a horrible sea monster
and she's trying to attack his?
I don't know. You know what I mean?
And it's just like, well, those two things could be possible.
We have got enough information to be able to confirm it like that.
So when you go to surreal films and like there's just not enough information
to definitively say what is or isn't happening, that's fine. It's OK.
Nothing's dead. All right.
Oh, it's just dead.
You can kill it.
I put it in the hospital.
Done without firmly established rules,
even ignoring that this point of view throws out everything subtextual
and thematic and art in favor of a there is no meaning only law approach.
There is no meaning only said that.
No, no, no, no, no.
Meaning and law, they both exist.
Why do we have to choose between them?
This is insane.
This is just he's just making shit up because he has no idea
what our actual criticisms and positions are.
Well, he hasn't he hasn't directly
hasn't directly said this is about us.
Maybe he's responding to one person who did say all of this.
Maybe that maybe that person out there, maybe their name is E.
He never looking move.
He FEP or something.
He FEP. I don't know if FEP.
Maybe there's a channel out there.
That's what all these people are talking about, who makes these arguments
that we never make, but they seem to think that.
I know I guess someone else does out there because we've never said these things.
Weird.
Maybe you should actually maybe if you're going to make a shitty video
on objectivity, you could give enough of a shit to maybe,
maybe find out what people who you're criticizing
are actually saying about it instead of just making stuff up.
I can't believe you know, you know, you would have had to have done
to to like find out what people who believe in objectivity
believe before making this video, you know, do you have to have done?
Maybe asked us ask.
Oh, my God, you can't do that.
You can't just ask people.
In other news, Movie Bob quote, tweeted that response from Jack
that made a lot of sense.
And he said, this is possibly the dumbest thing
someone has said to me on here, I ought to frame it.
Bob, Bob, what he said made sense.
I can't. Oh, wait, he's tweeting a lot.
I'm actually going to I'm going to be coming from doing this.
Going to bat for Jack St.
Against movie, rather, what does the world come to? Yeah.
There's some civil war.
Guys, talk while I while I flame on Twitter.
Oh, I sure hate women.
Yeah, I sure do hate women and the minorities.
And I think that my opinions are all factually true
because I said the objective word, the old word.
I themes are can't exist because we want to analyze some things objectively.
I don't know what other things do people say.
You know what? I fucking hate themes. Yeah.
I hate those themes.
Hey, guys, you want to be mean to Jenny Nichols for 11 hours?
Yeah, I would love to hear that.
It was so much fun the first time.
Oh, my God, I hate her twice because she's a woman and thinks themes.
Yeah. Oh, shit.
All right. 11 hour stream about Jenny Nichols.
Let's fucking show we we'd all be fired if I did that.
Well, fired by the way, forgetting the reference.
Now the guy who thought that YouTube had like a vetting process.
Oh, shoot. Who said that?
Yeah, they were saying, oh, how could these people be given
a platform on YouTube or a show on YouTube?
How did they get funding?
Yeah, how did they get funding?
It's like, what the fuck are you talking about?
I can't remember who said that, but that was ridiculous.
It's kind of works in reverse.
The funding kind of comes second.
Yeah. And it's lower every year.
I'm surprised he actually went with saying it's the dumbest thing
anyone's ever said to him.
It's like, Bob, really?
Movie Bob Pro.
You would think that he would think a lot of things said to him are really dumb.
We should all.
But this here's a thing he's like, how does this top it?
Yeah, I this can't even be a top 50.
I don't believe it.
People saying show the tweet.
The tweets are interesting.
I'm just I'm saying what I said earlier, which is that
Jack is comparing the MCU and the DCU, right?
And then he comes in saying, don't do that.
You're giving them free marketing like
much reviewing movies like what do you mean?
Yeah, fine. Whatever. You do it too.
What the fuck?
He's like, wow, what a dumb thing to say.
Movie Bob blows my mind.
I'm telling you, man, get in early.
I'm just quote tweeting it with no year.
Got him.
Like Rob, you're fucking pissing off everyone.
This is no one around you.
This is why you have no friends and no one will stand up for you ever.
I guess something bad happens to you.
Who will come to bat for you?
He's just standing up for his principles.
You wouldn't know about that.
I don't even I couldn't.
I don't even know if I could tell you Movie Bob's principles.
Eugenics. Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Eugenics, he's killed all of his friends,
which is why he plays all the characters in his videos.
Yeah, you think in his perfect world,
Jack is one of the people who would survive.
Well, in Bob's perfect world, it's just Bob.
He's like, yay, almost the good ones.
Yeah, yeah, just Bob.
Oh, Bob, all the time to enact egos plan and spread his blue cream.
Oh, no, no, fucking movie.
Robert's blue cream.
Oh, no, no, no, don't say that.
That's what he wants.
You can't argue against that.
Yeah, but you're not supposed to visualize it that much.
I gave it a picture in my head, bro, spread his blue cream.
No, no plan is safe.
Jackson put out a tweet where Scott, me, him, Sean H.
Farman, I'm not sure about the fifth guy, all agreeing to hate movie.
We found a common enemy, everybody.
Sean has dunked on him.
Exactly. Yeah, it's just I don't know why he likes him because he's just.
He's always he's like that.
He's like the mundane man.
He's like he's kind of like a mundane man, but more, I guess, more malicious and evil.
I think mundane man was like a more whole person,
but then some kind of catastrophe split them apart.
And movie Bob is like the evil half of mundane man.
Wait, is H-bomb gone after it, did you say?
Well, he was in the meme.
I don't know if he's gone after it.
He's definitely yeah.
He isn't H-bomb.
One of the ones they've all gone.
I think they've all gone after Bob at different times, right?
Yeah, I think it's all different types.
It's just yes, no friends.
Like no one is on.
No one's with him.
He's just he's made enemies of every side and every person.
You have all these different categories of political staddings and labels
and stuff like that.
There's just this one tidy one.
This is called Movie Raw, but it's just him.
He's going to start the Movie Bob party.
What are you doing?
Blue cream for all.
Look at one vote.
Only I will survive.
One vote every election, but it's one very strong and determined vote.
Well, I mean, he's he's he can vote more than one, surely.
Oh, yeah, I could mean his vote.
Everyone can vote, but his is the only vote that counts.
All right, let's I'm rolling this back.
But if you vote wrong, you get stoned.
It was for the one you get.
You don't putting aside cream and stone.
Take him to the cream chambers.
No, no, no, no.
You come out as Movie Bob.
You just eat, you sort of absorbs you into himself.
Disappear into him.
Imagining if you bought like a fucking plague where you see a movie
Bob on the street, he'll go up to put his hands on the side of your head.
You'll shake and transform into another bar.
Or he just kind of he's kind of waxing the chest of his hand like Agent Smith.
Me, me, me.
Wait, that meme was made by H bomb.
H bomb put me in a meme because I hate Bob so much.
That's adorable.
Wait, where's the I don't know.
I'm just I'm responding to bits of Bob's from chat.
But it's in apps.
I was just the one I was just talking about.
Link is Link is the meme.
OK. All right. All right.
I've talked about it enough that I should I should I'll fetch it now one moment.
Wow, he acknowledged you.
Who Bob?
No, H bomb.
Well, if it's H bombs meme, like I said, I don't know for.
It's not a it's not a retweet from Jack.
It's just a meme in general.
All right. Here is here is the meme.
Oh, that's a good meme.
I was I was zooming in correctly.
God, shut up, Zuma.
Oh, everybody hates movie bomb.
The cocaine intelligence unit.
Drug enforcement say hate movie.
Bob, I can't believe that, I guess.
What if they were?
They should have just had the last character be Earth.
Yeah.
Wait, is there a link to where this was originally posted?
Because I want to see it.
I want to see it in context.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's plenty of context in the image itself, really.
Paul Bob, it's well,
he probably should stop being insufferable.
It goes a long way.
Fuck. He hasn't thought of that.
Damn, this is the thing that response is just like,
but what he said made sense.
I don't understand.
No, it was the dumbest thing I've ever hit in my whole life.
All right.
Well, desensitized to like people just thinking he's dumb, like
his sheer.
I don't know. I guess he was my favorite reply.
Well, which one?
This one.
Explayed.
Oh, fuck. I remember that. Yeah.
All right.
Is everyone good for me to keep this video going?
Yes, we've got a video.
Holy shit. Wonderful.
Go for it. Yeah.
I had the fact that some of the most successful and powerful storytelling
has been done without firmly established rules,
even ignoring that this point of view throws out everything subtextual
and thematic and I'd be curious to be given an example of a movie
that would be worse with rules being kept intact.
Well, whatever is playing right now seems to be what he's referencing,
but I don't know what it is.
I don't know what movie this is.
Unfortunately, I don't either chat.
What is this movie with?
This is creepy party guy.
This is Bill Poulson, right?
Because he's he seems to be using this as an example
of something that doesn't make sense, but is good. So.
It's like full of themes and you got to learn shit from it.
It should be TLJ.
Whatever this movie is, we should all watch it and then see if he was right.
Yeah, I don't know what this is.
We'll see if Chad can figure it out.
Chat smart. They got this movie cream.
Lost Highway. Yeah. Lost Highway.
OK, I'm going to make a note of this and we should check it out
and see if it is all it's cracked up to be by being a visual in this video.
Don't know. All right.
Even ignoring that this point of view throws out everything subtextual
and thematic and art in favor of a there is no meaning only law approach,
even looking at this critical lens on its own home territory.
Mass media blockbuster comic movies.
How about sorry?
I'm going to play my game, so I just got stuck on that statement.
What if I said like there is no craft only meaning or something like that?
Like there is no recognition of merit.
There is only you tried gold star or some variation.
The idea of sitting.
I would need to work on it, but like there's no execution only ideas
of which this is the thing I do.
Ideas are cheap.
You can get them everywhere.
Someone could get high.
And I repeat that.
There's really good ideas and there's really good execution.
You need both for a good story.
I'd be inclined to disagree.
Tell me the difference between a good idea and a bad idea.
A quality.
No, like like examples.
And well, I think the sequel trilogy has bad ideas.
So if I'm following, if we go with that, right?
Just just give me one of the things that happens in the sequel trilogy
that you would say, oh, this comes back.
But see, as an idea of him returning as some form of an influence,
we could do that in so many different ways.
Like eventually, if you because if you go as far as saying
the idea is that he comes back this, this, this, this, like all.
This is how he does it mechanically.
And this is what he does at that point.
You've already gone so far that it's essentially that is the execution.
Right. It's no longer.
That's that's kind of why I'm curious to draw the line to a point
where you define an idea, right?
Because, for example, Superman can't fly.
Could you make a story with that happening?
It's like, that's an idea.
It's like, yeah, why not?
You go, Superman can't fly because he ate cereal.
You're like, whoa, that even that I could probably try to justify who just.
Yeah, it's it's always a huge harp on far more than concepts.
Because even the sequel trilogy, what like they executed
their their ideas really poorly or at least Rise of Skywalker certainly did.
It's always really hard to categorize this, because I often say they had
the prequels of good ideas executed badly and the sequels of bad
ideas executed well, but maybe they were a bad idea is executed well.
Well, I'm not sure if I want to categorize ideas as being good and bad
anymore rather than almost neutral and so many potentials.
Yeah, that we're never going to see.
That's what makes it so hard to say that this idea is bad in and of itself
when we don't know what to measure it up against.
We don't know what executions out there could have been done really, really well.
Like if someone said you can't have like a really bad idea
is Batman who kills people.
And it's like, I don't know.
No, you can do that.
You could probably do it in a lot of ways.
There's a lot of things you could do.
And again, like not everybody thinks that or anything.
It's not even necessarily commonly understood.
It's just that you don't want to have Zack Snyder telling you,
no, Batman kills people.
Get over it.
It's like, OK, we'd take the site.
I'm just yeah.
So I was just trying to think of I do.
I think I don't know.
I'll have to keep thinking about that.
Just the concept of what constitutes an idea
and whether or not it could be considered bad from the get go.
There was things like Luke falling out of love with the Jedi
thinking they're a baptism and like leaving the force, if you will.
It's like, I think there's a lot you can do with that.
I just love these serial ideas.
People are coming up with cryptos, cryptobytes.
Cryptonite crunch, yeah, cryptonite crunch.
Is molar evolving as a critic?
There's no bad ideas.
What a joke.
I mean, it's about classification.
I think it's hard to prove that ideas are terrible
inherently when even something that sounds like a bad idea
could be executed really well.
Yeah, like could you have had a old women Ghostbusters remake that was good?
It's like, I love that that's your go to bad idea.
Well, it's because a lot of people will say that that was never going to work.
And it's like, I don't know.
Luke Skywalker, take him and T.L.J.
Like, is the idea of Luke becoming disillusioned
and all that stuff necessarily bad?
It's like, I guess not inherently as a concept.
If you have to really have to be executed.
Well, it's the point.
You've got like bad ideas.
It's like, hey, let's make a movie that's about how great rape is
and how you should do it. Right.
OK, I think because someone in chat just said as well,
would the Tim Fertile ideas work?
And it's like maybe the good and bad refers to the potential only,
as in I say, an idea and everyone goes, whoa, yeah,
that could work in so many different ways.
Oh, my God, this is idea we go.
I guess if we maybe.
That's probably what we're referring to, because just whenever you think,
oh, that's a bad idea, I suppose we're referring to just
it's going to be really fucking tough to make a good movie out of that.
Or story, I guess.
I think so. And so does Cassian.
Is one thing I'd like to classify what people are referring to
whenever they use good and bad.
I think more people should do that.
Even looking at this critical lens on its own home territory,
mass media blockbuster comic book movies,
I think we run into some problems pretty fast.
For example, if we were to look at Superman, the movie,
with this lens of supposed objectivity, the rules set down by the world
for the first part of the film are that no, we don't know why.
No, nobody can fly there.
Nobody does fly.
That's it's not nobody can fly. Nobody does.
Nobody does fly there in those scenarios.
You got to be careful.
Yeah, this is just being there.
This is being really, really broadly generous to support your point.
I assume his conclusion is nobody can fly because if they could fly,
they would have flight.
You know what? The first the first like 20 minutes of Black Panther,
you know, that establishes that white people don't exist.
So when they show up, it doesn't make sense.
Oh, I see what you mean, right?
Yeah, well, I was just going to say to maybe
I don't know if I'm helping him or hurting him with this, but
let's say I was on his team and he he tagged me and I'd be like,
yeah, you see, like if we're dumb, the Kryptonians don't fly away
from the imminent doom here when we know they can because Kal-El can.
But the thing is, if I was on the other team as well, I'd be like, can he
can they? I don't know.
I don't know how Kryptonians work.
Do they require a son to be able to fly? I don't know.
And I mean, erotic was in the chat, wasn't he?
Would he know if if that's the official, I guess, the quote unquote,
is that the the lore of Superman?
Is that his ability to Earth's son?
For the sake of adaptation, faithfulness,
we need to know how it works, the comics,
and then we'd need to know if they establish that in this film
because I don't fucking remember.
I mean, I almost.
The power of Michael, Michael Dorsey said nobody can fly on that planet.
Jor-El explicitly says Superman gets his power from the sun, his powers.
There you go.
If I was making a video about this point,
I want to make sure my points accurate and I would look it up.
And it apparently takes just a second to do.
Why is it they can never actually come up with good examples of like plot holes?
Like Patrick Willems video did this as well.
It's like it's not hard.
There's a lot of them actual point in a movie.
So this is the thing they try.
They're attempting to be cinema sins right now and they can't do it properly,
but then cinema sins can't do it properly either.
So I don't know what I'm talking about with that.
And so, yeah, by the way, this is this is why we like doing movie homework
for these videos ahead of time, because we can call this shit out.
I didn't think this six minute video would require us to go watch this film,
but I mean, luckily chats here so we can.
Are you going to cover the service and stroke a video, by the way?
Yes, that is intended.
Yeah, the shit.
Oh, yeah, I think we said it on another refab,
but cinema wins and cinema sins have made the videos on Joker.
As much as I think cinema wins, this video is probably more accurate.
It's all frustrating.
Yeah, it was there like they're not good,
but the like the last half of the part two just goes off the rails.
So that'll be an episode in future.
Would you say part one is good?
Because that's the only one I've seen so far.
And I liked it.
It was OK.
From what I remember, it was part two.
It was definitely better than CinemaSins.
CinemaSins was crap.
CinemaSins was so bitter.
He was like, it's a bad movie.
Fuck you. Yeah.
Well, CinemaSins was the hoes mad video.
Also, Jay, you are you requesting a spot on that or no?
I can go for it.
I don't care if you could.
I'm asking, do you want it?
That's that's how committed I am to being on it.
All right.
I'll put you at the the bottom of the barrel of my request list.
OK. All right.
That's where I'm used to being.
All right. Anyway, the supposed objectivity,
the rules set down by the world for the first part of the film
are that nobody can fly, including people from Krypton.
Then in the second act, Superman flies the rule.
Rags, that we said that like the gift of Donald Trump.
I know because he's fucking wrong.
And he's like, nobody can fly is Krypton.
He can't fly. He's like, Superman can.
Well, he's he's setting this up as a contradiction.
He's saying the film said nobody can fly.
And then the film said no, some can fly.
That's not a contradiction.
No, it's it's just not a contradiction because Krypton,
like I'm not a big Superman fan, but I know that Krypton,
they have their red sun and they can't absorb anything from that one.
It's the Earth's sun that they can.
And that's why. And this is we're not even citing comics
because I want to be fair if he was like, oh, that's third party.
No, no, apparently this isn't the film, as long as Jor-El establishes it
in the film and you find, you know, if it was in the comics, no, if it was
sorry, if it was a contradiction, you know what that would be.
Bad.
Nobody can fly, including people from Krypton.
Then in the second act, when Superman flies, the rules change
from nobody can fly to nobody except Superman can fly.
No, you are inventing these rules that are not accurate.
Did you watch the movie?
Because I haven't, but we're being told they're wrong.
We know he's wrong.
But let's go with it for a moment to see where also where he wants to take this argument.
Like premise is wrong.
But let's see what your conclusion is.
Assuming this were true.
The movie doesn't break objective rules about screenwriting and art.
The understood rules of the world change when new information is provided.
No, that's our understanding of the rules.
That's those aren't the rules.
If rules changed.
But like in a way, what is he saying?
Because Superman does that, it's just the universe telling us that rules are
prohibited. I don't think he knows what rules means.
But all the Krypton Kryptonians can fly.
Like that's which one was it where they have the prison guys, Zod and them?
Don't they get Superman powers when they come through?
But that is that is from like, if you go in from this movie alone,
I don't think I don't think Zod's in it.
Yeah, not this one.
But even in like the sequels, it's confirming this stuff.
So I'm like, man, I'm still you're going to have to do better.
I'm still just want to chat to they can't fly now.
They can't fly now.
As I said, this isn't surprising because the audience expects this
when going to see a Superman film.
These are things that are supposed to happen because doing incredible things
like flying are essential to the character.
No, they're not, though.
No, they're definitely not essential to the character.
I don't think anyone would say the power.
That's kind of the point of all of the MCU is that the the characters.
They are the vessel for the powers to be able to be used in specific ways.
Right. Because Zod and Superman are like two sides of a coin.
They both got these extreme powers, but they both got very different characters,
which takes them to different places.
I think I think I know what he means.
He's just phrased it, Paul.
He's like, you know, essentially, if if people want to go see a Superman movie
and they didn't fly, they'd be like, huh, be OK with that.
If it was like origin movie and the flying was going to be used as a big payoff.
Oh, yeah. A lot of people would be OK with it.
But I think a lot of people will be like, what about the Superman?
I'm like, imagine, you know, if you want to if you want to
do the reboot, it's Spider-Man, right?
This could be a great movie, but they made a Spider-Man reboot.
It was just like an hour and a half of Peter Parker's school drama.
You would be like, I'd be confused for sure.
And if they only alluded, like, say, for example, the last scene
is him going to some kind of fucking spider lab and his friends
and be like, oh, it's going to be so much funny.
And he's like, yeah, I hope it is.
And he goes, did it, did it, did it, did it, did it, did the credits come up
because they stole that theme?
And then we'd be like, huh?
And if it was a great character piece, I'd probably be revved.
I'd be like, shit, man, he's about to get the powers.
But you would like you would understand why like people would feel
the way they did about it.
Well, I mean, I referenced it earlier, but Smallville kind of did this.
The the first couple of seasons, he's not exactly OP
compared to end of the show, I think.
I mean, I can't remember now.
Yeah, but Smallville is like the premise is that it's a young.
Well, that's kind of what I'm going with.
If your premise was a young man, I realized what I said.
No, but that has a different premise.
Yes, it would be on a different premise.
Oh, if your premise was this is Superman at his prime.
He just can't fly.
They don't acknowledge it at all.
There's going to be people who would be confused for sure.
Yeah, there we go.
Especially if he had a problem, he could solve the flying
and he just doesn't and nobody knows how to solve this problem.
And he has to figure out a different way.
And he never acknowledges the flight.
We'd be like, OK, it's not Superman supposed to be able to find what's going on.
I suppose it would have to be accepted that this iteration cannot fly
or something like that.
I think that would cause him a whole bunch of other problems,
being that he's like from a different planet.
I guess he's never going to be able to do the thing
where he spins the Earth around and rewinds time.
Yeah, but that was stupid anyway.
How dare you?
Moreover, the meaning of any art about that character.
In the case of Superman, the movie,
what is the meaning that they use the character of Superman to convey?
The meaning they want to convey.
For me, it's contained within two key moments.
The first one is when Clark Kent at Jonathan Kent's funeral, stricken with grief, says.
All those things I can do.
All those powers.
I'm going to pause because long selection.
Last thing I need is for...
Oh my God.
Are you saying long clip bad?
Well, wouldn't you?
That's YouTube's words, not ours.
I remember when YouTube had like a 10 minute upload limit.
They do.
So it was weird.
Yeah, 10 minutes.
Can you imagine what I'd be fucked?
Be like, all right.
Here comes.
Part 700.
Yeah.
And I couldn't even save him.
This is the point at which Superman learns there are going to be challenges he can't overcome,
such as his father having a heart attack.
This sets up the theme that later will be resolved when Lois Lane dies
and Superman has to turn back time to save her.
Okay, so he's appealing to like a significant quote unquote,
meaning you get out of the film as in like,
what a great lesson that no matter how powerful or well-equipped you are,
some challenges can't be overcome.
And you can put your hand on your chin and look down.
You can think for a while about what that can mean to you and your life
and what you perceive as super people or heroes in your own life.
That's wonderful.
Now, let me let me explain why plot holes matter because this is just something that
Patrick Wilms doesn't necessarily care about.
And they come in all shapes and sizes.
But for example, what if Jonathan can't die because he fell off a building
and Superman was like, I don't know, 50 meters away.
And so he was running toward him.
He could easily have grabbed and saved him.
He just wasn't there in time for this whole time.
We knew he had super speed.
And we're like, wow, he chose to let his dad die.
And someone's like, whoa, no, no, he doesn't.
He's like, who upset he is.
He wanted to save him.
But he can.
Like, no, he just doesn't use that power.
You're like, what?
There's a plot hole?
And then they're like, yeah, it's a plot hole.
Who fucking cares?
It's like, no, but this is that's who cares.
This is incredibly important.
This is what gives characters meaningful choices in fiction,
is understanding how rules work.
Like, I don't care that fucking Superman
decided that he didn't have super fast running.
That's nonsense.
What do you mean?
Like, you just forgot?
And you're like, dude, you're taking this a bit far, aren't you?
And this is the thing.
That's actually relevant when you say someone's shoelace is tied
in one different way, one scene in one different way, another scene.
Or by shop, let's say.
So it's definitely a contradiction.
And someone would be like, what the fuck does that have
in terms of influence on anything?
And you'd be like, oh, yeah.
But this is why the whole sort of talking about this stuff,
sort of talking about lore, sort of talking
about which powers Superbad has.
It's like, we need to know which powers he has
and how they work so that when he makes choices,
we understand what he did with the powers that he has.
These are really important.
So for example, he goes to his home planet,
or just a place where he can't fly,
because I don't know the specific rules of how all that goes.
And someone's fallen off an alien building there,
and he flies and saves them.
We'd be like, what?
I don't know.
I thought that he, okay.
I guess it makes sense that he would do that
because he wants to save the person.
But that was under the impression.
That's not a choice he could even make.
But okay, cool.
You know, it's gonna keep fucking with your brain.
And then you have the people being like, I didn't notice it.
And you're like, oh, but it's there.
You can't, it doesn't matter if he notices it or not.
Disappearing knife noticed or not.
It's there.
That is my rant.
Plot holes matter is my point.
Y'all know, right?
No, because plot holes are, he's a good man.
And he's just trying to help out.
And everyone keeps throwing eggs at him.
That poor man plot holes.
You're an egg.
He's walking around and he's like, hey, look, plot hole.
And this one throws an egg at him.
He's like, oh.
I don't like why I really like Captain America, the whole.
He's such a, he's the person first.
And then it's like, what if you give this person
all these abilities, what do they do with it?
And like all of his films are about what he chooses to do with power
and where he thinks power should be.
Because power and tools on their own aren't necessarily good or evil or anything.
It's about who's using them for what?
Quill kind of a, the quill start quill.
Quill, quill, quill benches it.
Remember rags about the robots are evil.
It's whoever programmed them.
Wait, what part is that?
Have you seen Miller Mandalorian?
Oh, sorry, I thought, nevermind.
Okay.
I was thinking of something else with a quill in it.
Yeah, I guess my point is that the meaningful moments can really be damaged
when rules are just ignored.
Because it's like, that sort of, you get that moment.
Jane dies and Superman has to turn back time to save her.
The second moment is when Superman brings Lex Luthor and his goon Otis to jail.
And the prison warden thanks him and Superman responds,
which establishes the theme that Superman is a fucking cop.
Which cements the message of the film that while you may not be able to solve a problem,
it's better to try than to not.
And if we all work together toward that goal,
a better world is possible, kumbaya, et cetera, et cetera.
Marvel movies, which are really the bread and butter of this objectivist criticism,
is it?
Is it?
Is it?
I think it's Star Wars.
I think I think he's mixing up popular with like,
just Marvel's just the most popular franchise right now.
That's a good point.
Yeah, like the most popular.
It's what a coincidence that the most popularly reviewed film
are the ones that are most often reviewed by a movement.
You guys, well, this screenshot doesn't prove shit,
because CinemaSins has covered a bazillion films.
And we don't know these view counts versus the others with this screenshot,
we just have to assume, but I would assume they're the most popular.
He covers like every film.
And yeah, if you told me what franchise really is this mostly done about,
I'd be like, it's probably Star Wars.
Star Wars seems to be the one that did it.
What is this website?
By and large trade in a message of empowerment.
This message of empowerment has some undertones of
neoliberal individual responsibility, which are quite unpleasant,
but can you believe it?
Some tones of personal responsibility.
That's so unpleasant that there are tones of personal responsibility.
I feel like we skipped something there.
Am I just like out of the loop now?
What happened?
Well, no, I think he's saying that as much as there are lessons about empowerment in the MCU,
like people standing up for themselves or standing together.
There's a lot of, I guess, stories that try and place bits and bobs of blame on the individual
for things.
And I think he's unhappy about that.
Oh no.
These people simultaneously talk about how important empowerment is
and then shit on the idea of personal responsibility.
Well, this is the problem.
He's done this so quickly.
I don't know any more detail about this.
I'm just like, okay.
This message of empowerment has some undertones of neoliberal individual responsibility,
which are quite unpleasant, but mostly they're real good blockbusters for the whole family with
a common theme between these films in which when people try hard enough,
they can succeed at whatever they set their mind to.
At first, they can't do the thing, but then usually with no material change,
but having learned some lessons or just gotten more determined,
they try again and can do the thing.
I think that's a little bit unfair to a lot of the movies,
but I'm going to let that slide.
It's like no material change.
It's like, I mean, he's using Spider-Man Homecoming as the visual.
That's what's upsetting, but fine.
We'll let him pass.
Strangely, these films tend to draw the ire of the objective criticism crowd
when the protagonist of the movie is a person of color or a woman and not when it's a white man.
Okay.
I hate Iron Man 3.
Iron Man 3, yeah.
Sorry.
We hate what they do to...
Hang on, how many movies are there in the MCU?
20... is it 24 or five now?
How many of them have a black man or a woman?
Two.
Yeah.
Have them or a star?
As in protagonist.
That's literally below the minimum requirement to have any kind of pattern in anything.
Well...
It's like these people, they think, oh, Captain Marvel's the only one that matters
with a female protagonist, but it can't be bad.
This thing, it can't be bad.
If it's the only one, it can't be bad.
If it's bad, that means you hate women.
The film can't actually be bad.
Why's it got Iron Man 3 on the screen?
No, it's got Iron Man 1.
It's Iron Man 1.
Um, it's interesting, by the way, Age of Ultron and Endgame, actually.
Both films are considered to be pretty poorly written at this point.
Mechanically, both of them suffer immensely.
That's a fucking whole cast of whiteys.
So why didn't I love them?
What's happening?
Yeah, I mean, ugh.
And how come you like one of the Spider-Man movies more than the other?
They're both the same white guy.
Why do I hate Iron Man 3 and love Iron Man 1?
Oh my god.
Why do I-
There might be a reason for that.
Don't you think you had a tan in Iron Man 3?
Oh no.
Oh no.
His best friend was a woman in that one.
And his tutor was a woman.
There's just loads of women in the bad one.
That's what it was.
Um, yeah, this is a really, like, I can't help but call this disingenuous.
Because I think-
Of course it is.
Well, no, so like, you have to get into their heads, right?
Because they actually do believe this stuff a lot of the time.
When it comes to, I'm not gonna say-
Let's just pretend for a second this was directed at me.
I'd be like, can you really conclude this?
Like, and then they go, we'll look at your videos.
You did a criticism video for Black Panther Captain Marvel,
and you did a praise one for Infinity War.
So what does that say?
Like, I don't know, I think that says a lot of different things, doesn't it?
Do you see my arguments?
I was like, no.
Do you know that I think that Endgame is poorly written?
Like, no.
Do you know that I hate a lot of-
Like, Thor 1 and 2, I think are pretty shit.
They both have a white man in the main slot.
They both star a Welshman in one of the main roles.
I should be biased toward it, should I not?
And I just like, I sit here, and I wonder if any of that would even make a difference.
I wonder if they would be like, you know what?
I can see how you're trying to argue out of it, but I think we all know the truth.
Like, that's how I feel this person would be with me.
But I think he's confusing the idea of objectivity with-
Like, a lot of people who believe in objectivity are also the people
like, only look at the political angle of the film,
or very frequently look at the political angle, like, very heavily.
Oh, yeah, that's us.
Well, you say it like, unfortunately, the people who like, hate women and black people
are also going to be lining up with people who just were gutting for consistent writing.
I don't think that's what I said.
I'm asking you if that's what you said.
No.
So what do you mean?
Although there are probably some, I mean, there's some of them like,
surely in the community, I've, you know-
There's some people of anything in any large group of people.
It's not even worth it.
Well, I wasn't even trying to, like, what I'm trying to highlight is that it's just bad luck
for the idea, like, people who are focused, they want to target all the ones that are poorly written.
They go boom, boom to Black Panther and Captain Marvel.
And then a completely different group are like, man, do I hate women and black people?
I'm going to aim my gun.
Boom, boom, I hit Black Panther and Captain Marvel.
And then some other guy sees those two groups and he's like, they're the same group.
There's no difference.
Yes, that's, yes.
That's what I said, but in different ways.
And you didn't agree last time, Jay, so now I hate you.
This is a person who thinks that we don't like Black Panther because it has a Black person,
and we don't like Captain Marvel because of a woman.
Well, that's the thing, right?
If only they knew more about me slash us in that, first of all, I was excited for Black
Panther because of Civil War.
Oh, yeah, he was sweet in Civil War.
He was amazing in Civil War.
Where did that guy go?
Captain Marvel to be good, but just wasn't.
Yeah, I guess they're not public conversations,
but me and Jay talked a lot about how we wanted Captain Marvel to be good.
I'm sure that there's been a public, that one of those surely is public.
Possibly in one of the past, I was hoping it would be well written.
And I was like, oh, don't make the first wham and one a badly written one.
And this is the thing, by the way, I really like Scarlet Witch and Black Widow in the MCU.
So doesn't that kind of fuck with this?
That's because this is a state that they make without any information behind it.
It's just the thing they could say to people who would already agree with it.
So if we were to press them on this, they would fucking crumble.
Guys, understanding your opponent, it's neo-nazism.
Oh, oh, shucks.
It's just a rule.
This accusation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group from my arguments.
I will keep listening to your arguments, but I'm not exactly please.
Yeah, you've really kind of...
The argument switched me off from the argument.
I was going to say, it's almost like you self-aware of how much the well has been
poisoned now, but the well was empty.
Now it's just poison.
You didn't poison the well, you threw poison down a hole.
It's just a hole full of poison now.
It's not even a well.
The situation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group.
So Iron Man, you know, really a pretty good film.
So the first one, yeah.
Yeah.
So imagine if you put Iron Man 3 there.
Oh, no way he can.
I'm willing to bet that he threw the first one because it's just the first one.
But if he's aware, the fact that people think that Iron Man 3 sucks,
or at least a lot of people do, and he did put it up there for that definitive reason.
It's just like, man, it's lame, but what are you going to do?
Or a woman and not when it's a white man.
This accusation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group
from my arguments because I've shown actually prove anything.
You said like, you know what, sexism as well.
I mean, they don't need much else, right?
They're racist and sexist.
They didn't like two movies.
They must be racist.
Yeah.
Nevermind that we love Black Panther in Civil War and he was cool as shit.
Nevermind that.
No, no, no, no.
That would require him understanding and like engaging with the things.
No, no, no.
His arc in Civil War, as a lot of people agree, is way better than his arc in Black Panther.
If you could, is there an arc in Black Panther?
I don't even know.
I never freeze.
Oh, so cool.
Yeah.
And then she goes, you froze.
And he's like, he sucks.
This accusation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group
from my arguments because I've shown my agenda
and I'm accusing them of being evil bigots.
I mean, it does kind of come across as an agenda
because it's not supported by statistics.
Yeah.
You're saying that we're racist and we're sexist.
You've shown your bias, man.
Yeah.
And we could do the same thing.
We could be like, oh, this guy probably fucking reads Karl Marx every day.
Okay, calm down.
He's just talking about movies.
But I'm not.
We're happy to see what else you got to say,
but you did not prove what you just said, like even closely.
Yeah.
What's the equivalent argument for us to make?
It's like, oh, this guy would...
It's such a surprise that people who think that there's no such thing as objectivity
just happen to love bad films.
So that's the only way that they can...
Yeah.
It's like, this guy hasn't said any of that.
It's like us saying, oh, I'm just like, I bet this guy...
That he likes CLJ.
He would be correct, but he loves CLJ and has to build a worldview where it's good.
It's like, no, he hasn't said anything that would lead us to believe that.
Anyway, I'm curious when it's a white man.
This accusation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group
from my arguments because I've shown my agenda and I'm accusing them of being evil bigots.
You know, what I would love for him to do is if he actually found like an example of a sexist,
racist person and demonstrated how they have like, you know, a hypocritical bias or something.
What?
Evidence to prove his claims?
Evidence to maybe support the accusations he's making?
Another way to approach that, by the way, is that he did the he did the voice.
So he went, oh, I'm proving them to be evil bigots.
It's like, dude, if people hate black people and women.
Yeah, they are.
I was going to say, like, label of evil bigot.
Yeah, fine.
I mean, I don't think you're a great person if you hate women and hate black people.
Like, that's not that's not looking good.
I'd say that makes you like a bad person, you know.
You got you got issues.
I think it's I think it's bad to call people those things without any foundation.
But that's kind of what I'm highlighting is the foundation of they hate women.
Yeah, he's created this category of people.
And all we know about them is they hate women and they hate black people.
And then he moves on to say, like, oh, look at me.
I'm saying you're an evil bigot.
It's like that kind of what you're saying.
That is what you're saying, though.
But dude, this guy is this guy is racist, sexist.
He like he literally judges people based on their gender and the color of their skin.
Not saying he's a bigot, but he's a bigot.
Like, geez, calm down.
We'd never go that racist and sexist or a woman and not when it's a white man.
This accusation will pretty much switch off anyone from this group from my arguments,
because I've shown my agenda and I'm accusing them of being evil bigots.
Nonetheless, a common example of their reasoning is the characters like Black Widow,
who has no powers, shouldn't be able to beat large men in a fight.
It depends on this.
It depends on the fight like this fight I'm seeing here with the chair, not really buying it.
I can buy it because they're all pretty pathetic.
And she's the way she does it is the reason I buy it.
She doesn't show how she does it like, you know, it works.
I know.
I see some of the hits that are just like, oh, yeah, some of the hits are done, actually.
I would like to highlight, though, that we do that with the guys as well.
Right.
Like, yeah, it's all contextual to each individual fight.
So, yeah, if fucking okay, I'm wrestled Thanos and one, you'd be like, no.
Yeah, like if Black Widow just beat up some guy, I'd be like, yeah, of course,
she's Black Widow.
But if she beat up Thor, I'd be like, no, no, that no, it depends on what's going on.
What does she have?
What does he notice how he noticed how for the sexism argument he brought up,
how everyone hates Captain Marvel.
But now, now that a woman woman shouldn't woman shouldn't win fight,
he's bringing up Black Widow because he can't make that argument about Captain Marvel
because no one makes that argument about Captain Marvel because it's not based on gender.
It's based on power.
It's ridiculous for her to lose a fight, which is kind of the problem.
And then they've got then you've got like, he'll bring up like one guy like
Stefan Mullen you who does basically on gender and like,
yeah, but he's not I don't like him.
I have to have a like, if like, by default, I will choose an average man to beat up an
average woman because that's how biology works.
I'm not saying it can't not happen.
But like, that's where you put your money.
That's the way it goes.
So if you're going to show the opposite of what you might expect, there's reasons for it.
That's why we're totally okay with Black Widow as an individual, not as a woman,
but as a highly trained, skilled assassin, secret agent lady being able to beat people up.
You don't have to justify it because averages don't, you know, don't averages aren't everything.
Right, but if, if we're provided average build man versus average build woman,
and you get to bet a million dollars, and you have to put the million dollars on one or the other,
like, okay, I'm gonna put on the guy.
And then someone goes, the girl has a gun like, okay, I'm putting on the girl.
The guy has Iron Man armor,
delivering better hits, then yeah, she's gonna win.
Like, that's how that works.
You show my point is that with our limited information is that's where we go with it.
But if you go those two normal build people, turns out one of them has superpowers,
like, which one the girls like, one of the powers super strength,
like, well, my money's going on here, then.
Like, it really depends.
And if you go random Russian thug, versus a girl who's been trained in the arts of like,
assassin skilled warfare, yeah, hand to hand wins.
Yeah, this is, I'm just like, I'm pretty sure she's good.
I'm putting my money on.
And so this is a, I don't think we've ever,
I don't even know if we've talked about this scene from Avengers, really.
CinemaSins does this, though.
CinemaSins will fucking rail on Black Widow of how she can beat people up.
And it's always like, I mean, I have an issue when she does it with like,
alien creatures that might be, might be more powerful.
Like, so for example, you don't know, though.
Like, when they just show the hits, you know, when they show the hits landing,
you're like, yeah, she beat that guy up.
It depends.
I don't know how they're done.
Depends what I see.
Like, I'm trying to think of more clear example, but
just especially if you have comparisons, like, let's say the Hulk punches a thing
and the thing goes out and then she hits it later in the same way.
And it goes, whoa, and falls over.
We'd be like, wait, hang on.
That's sort of sort of, you know, when there's a contradiction, it's bad.
Well, I'm not even I wouldn't even go that far.
Just that's what sends up the flares.
It's not it's not someone just sent me this.
Is that.
That's pretty funny.
Wham in the themes subjectivity.
It's all about my feelings.
Objectivities.
Oh, the word of the day is lenticular.
Possibly drawing it already relating to a lens.
Very good.
Sorry.
All right.
Let's see.
Let's see some more of this argument.
Just like Black Widow, who has no powers, shouldn't be able to beat
large men in a fight because she's just a woman and objectively.
See, so if cinema since said that, because he can't be referencing us
because we've never said this, if cinema since is in this call
and he said she can't do that.
She's just a woman.
What do you mean?
He can't be referencing us because we never said this.
Yeah, he's referencing this idea of us that he's constructed.
And if that's what he's doing, he's got freedom to wiggle because
he referenced a whole bunch of people.
So assuming then that he's referencing cinema since and if
citizens was in this call and they said, don't you think it's stupid
that Black Widow can beat up a bunch of random Russian thugs?
We'd all be like, no.
And then what happens?
Like, I don't know.
Does this guy think that call explodes because of the fact
that we should be agreeing with Jeremy from cinema since?
I don't know.
He's like, you guys can't have reasonable perspectives.
I would just ask him.
Does he think who who who wins Iron Man or Black Widow?
And then he goes, well, Iron Man, because he's like, and I go, what?
He's got a penis.
He's like, because he's got a big suit of armor.
And then I'm like, OK, so like, because he's going to be stronger than her
at that point, then he can punch her and she'll fling across the room
right? And you'd be like, yeah, I guess.
I'm like, what about Arnold Schwarzenegger versus a little girl?
He's like, OK.
And then you just keep leveling it until you finally get to the point
where you go, I guess I'm not 100 percent sure of who would win at that point.
So do you think you think Black Widow would beat Tony Stark without his armor?
I think probably.
If Tony Stark literally has nothing, then yeah, she wins.
Yeah, Black Widow would win.
If he had I'm trying to think of what what's the smallest amount of resources
he could need to potentially beat her.
Probably. Well, I don't want to go that far, because that's obvious.
But even then, she could probably do some shit that would like depending
on what's in the room and where they are, you know.
Yeah, I'm sure she I'm sure she disarms a lot of opponents, right?
So, you know, I wouldn't I wouldn't be so sure of the fight even if he had a gun.
Yeah, like I think it could be a lot.
Does she get the drop on him?
Is all sorts of stuff like she knows she's going to it depends who initiates
the fight, because if if if she knows she's going to fight him,
she's not going to get into a position where where she can shoot her.
Because the point of all this is no sexism, for fuck's sake.
It's not about whether or not she's a girl. God damn it.
Well, I mean, and if it is for some people, use an example of,
yeah, like, like, find that again.
I'll just think of this as a little girl.
It's going to be tough for her to win.
But then again, it would be tough for a little boy to win, too.
It's like, it's just, well, no, he'll be fine because he's a boy.
And I'm sure he will use his penis attack.
How differentiates between the people who didn't like Captain Marvel
because of its quality and who didn't like it because it's a woman.
You have to find them saying that.
I guess they have.
But that involves some level of research.
I'm just.
Yeah.
And that's why videos like that don't.
That's why this video doesn't do that.
Because if he'd made research, then he would be made the same video.
You know, like the big, big dog things from Infinity War.
You send like one of them for each of the original six Avengers, right?
And you see the Hulk just punches it right into the ground, dies.
Iron Man blasts it with one of those things, dies.
Thor hits with his hammer, dies.
I guess let's ignore Hawkeye, actually.
No, ignore Hawkeye because he's going to ruin this comparison.
So go away, Hawkeye, just for a moment.
You can come back in a bit.
And then Captain America throws the shield into it,
goes, whoa, he catches the shield, jumps onto it,
and rams the shield into its head to kill it.
Then Black Widow punches, punches, jumps over it,
punch, punch, kicks, breaks its neck, and it falls over.
I'd be like, hmm, I don't know about that.
And then he would be there, and he'd be like, what?
Because she's a girl.
And I'm like, no, it's because that guy's an Asgardian.
That guy's an enormous green monster.
And that guy has an incredibly powerful technological suit.
They could all be women.
It wouldn't matter.
No, it's because she's a woman.
It's because she's a woman.
Black Widow.
And then if Captain Marvel did it, that's my favorite thing.
He uses Captain Marvel as the example of everything,
you know, the one that everyone's sexist about.
But as soon as he's like using an example of things
that people say about it, oh, wait,
no, I can't use her for this one,
because it's not based on gender.
I suppose that's the funny thing then.
Because people wouldn't say that about Captain Marvel.
Let's get Thanos.
We clone him up.
We send him toward the Hulk, and Hulk punches him in the face,
and Thanos falls over dead.
He walks up to Iron Man.
Iron Man punches him in the face, falls over dead.
Same with Thor.
And then Captain Marvel vaporizes him
with their light speed lasers.
The only one I have a problem with there isn't Captain Marvel.
The rest of them are like, hey, how did you do that?
What's weird here, too, is that he's a black widow
who doesn't have any superpowers.
He's like, yeah, that's kind of integral
to the whole point, isn't it?
Kind of.
Kind of, kind of, kind of.
Like you acknowledged it.
Like you said the words, they came out of your mouth.
Like, don't you think that's a big part of it?
A lot of things have come out of his mouth.
Yeah, very few of them interesting or true.
And some people highlight it in chat.
It's like, yeah, if Black Widow used her pistols
to shoot the heads of these dog things
or she electrocuted them with her things,
like I could believe that more,
but that's why I specifically said
she punches it and kicks it and it falls over.
It's just like, ah, I don't think so.
Yeah, these things are for all reasons.
No, you have to show, to make that a contradiction,
you have to show one of the other stronger Avengers
not beating it.
Well, we got plenty of that, right?
Like Cap gets covered in him.
Like, let's say, yeah, yeah.
Anyway, this shouldn't be able to beat large men in a fight
because she's just a woman.
And objectively, right?
Women are statistically weaker.
They are.
Sorry, dude.
You're just going to have to fucking get over the fact.
I want to clarify, though, that that would refer to...
No, I agree against that.
He's not arguing against that.
He's arguing that that's the only argument people make
in the objectivity crowd is that women no beat man
because average woman less strong than average man.
And I want to clarify, that refers to likelihood
rather than impossibility,
as in smaller build, smaller frame woman
versus larger build, larger frame man.
Like, does that mean the man wins every single time?
I've never heard anyone saying a woman cannot beat up a man.
I've never heard that.
It's what Stefan all new says that.
I mean, there's so many other variables.
Like, strictly...
Because that's the point of why this gets contentious.
Because if you're like, does he win if we solely consider
literally who's got bigger or more whatever the word
would be accurate for this muscle mass?
Like, if you're going strictly from that,
then I suppose the person with the higher muscle mass
is the one with the higher muscle mass.
Yeah, that's the thing.
That's what I mean, like that one...
That has a lot to do with it.
Well, I was just going to say, like that,
if you want to make it that specific,
then I guess that's where we're going with it.
But it's like, what else is going on in this fight?
Where are they?
What items do they have on them?
Where can they go?
Are there people anywhere?
Don't even, again, have superpowers?
It's like, there's just so much stuff to know.
That's obviously going to be relevant, their muscle mass.
Because if you have like a Brie Larson-sized woman
fucking pin the Hulk down, we're going to be like,
how did you do that?
They go, she has superpowers.
You go, oh, fine.
Okay.
She must, yeah.
That's the thing.
Because if she didn't, we'd be like, that's not possible.
It's like, you know, this also applies to small men.
And like, you know, if I saw Peter Dinklage beat up,
you know, Scarlett Johansson, I'd be like, really?
Can I see that, please?
Giant midgets can do all kinds of shit.
Yeah.
I just, I don't see Danny DeVito beating up Ronda Rousey.
I just, I don't believe it.
I just don't believe it.
She is way bigger and stronger than he is.
Don't buy it for a second.
That's the little dude.
He'd have to be in like a super suit or something.
Like a couple of-
I want to see that so bad.
Yes, please.
Fucking Danny DeVito in an Iron Man suit.
He's rising.
Yeah.
I just, I don't know.
If I was with this guy right now, I'd be like,
I have a lot of reasons for why I think doesn't work.
And I'm not a sexist.
Okay.
And then I'd get the whole, that's just what a sexist would say.
I am a sexist, but that's not why this thing-
I hate women, but that's not the problem I have with this.
I hate women, but I have grown to accept that they have a role in society.
And that's just, you know, that's just-
We need them.
They're like batteries.
Well, it's like-
They're like batteries.
These people think that saying, oh, they just hate women,
like that's not actually a counter.
I don't think they realize as well.
The majority of our edgy jokes come from the fact that we get told that with this, this thing,
we're like, oh, we'll just join the beam.
Yeah.
Great.
Almost done.
We can make it.
Yes, we can.
Objectively, right?
Women are statistically weaker.
So, got him.
The obvious understanding the audience has when they see Black Widow beat out a big man
is that she is really good at fighting.
The rules of the world-
No, that's not a rule being contradicting.
Because no one said it.
Hang on, you guys are a bit ahead of me there.
I'm going to replay it.
Is that she is really good at fighting.
The rules of the world shift from the assumption she can't beat larger,
more powerful opponents in a fight to the assumption that she can.
The rules shift.
I mean, those rules are always in place.
People can train and become stronger.
Skill exists.
Yeah, we don't say she can't.
It's whether or not you show that.
Yeah, and we don't have any indication-
And so, several examples where we immediately go, wait, how did they do that?
And then we're expecting them to explain it.
But if they don't, we should be like, okay.
And then later on, if they show that this person can't do the thing we saw them do,
that's when it becomes a serious problem as opposed to,
I guess it's just unexplained power this person has.
After all, she may not have powers, but she is a hero in a superhero movie.
No, that's not why.
No, no.
It's because she has all of this training.
Yeah, she's not even super.
Everything she can do and was given at a younger age is all stuff that happens in real life.
Exactly.
Like, like she does.
That's why we say she doesn't have super powers.
She's just really well trained and normal human.
Yeah, and she fights alongside the Avengers and it's always just like, I don't know.
I don't know about that because the whole reason they're all together is because one of them is a
literal god, one of them is a radioactive monster, one of them has the most advanced super suit
across Earth.
You're like, okay.
And then it's like, she should be there as much as everyone else who's got lots of training should
be there.
You're like, shouldn't- if that's your goal, you know what I mean?
It was the same with infinitisms where they were like, let's gather all of the super bed
and stuff or whatever else.
Like, you got infinite wills to work with.
Why don't you just gather all of the best from all of the places and do that?
I don't even think it mattered though, in that story.
But like, if you're gonna have these people defend thingy, you'd be like, should we get
all of the best trained like people of Earth together?
Wasn't she just there because like, she was just the one with good training that they had.
Well, she was, she was good friends with Nick Fury and another dude.
Why she's there, essentially.
Yeah, but I was talking to the team.
I was ignoring the sort of like, friendship and family aspects of the Avengers and more
so just looking at power levels.
It's like, kind of interesting how she should be there as much as-
Hawkeye.
Well, see Hawkeye, this is the problem with Hawkeye, he kind of has a superpower.
Like his accuracy is utterly insane.
If someone said that's just that's just human accuracy pushed to its limits,
I'd be like, I don't know about that.
Some of this stuff he can't even see.
Yeah.
And you might be like, there's some people who could do that.
I'd be like,
because that's what we're talking about.
At what point a mighty sense of superpower.
Oh, wait, you're saying like, that's kind of what he has.
Kind of.
Yeah.
I mean, that's the problem with Hawkeye.
If you were to say he shouldn't be there either.
I'd be like, I don't know.
I guess I can see an argument.
He needs more protection.
He's like power level wise.
He's so far below all the others though.
Like, yeah, I mean, like really good, no matter how good you're doing it.
Yeah, I agree.
Even if you're inhumanly good at it.
It's like, you know, like if they're eight to nine,
I have an inhuman ability to knit really well.
If they're eight to nine in terms of like possible power levels and stuff,
she's probably sitting at like a what?
Four, three, and then Hawkeye is like a six.
I would say Hawkeye is better.
Although would you say that, uh, Hawkeye in the hand,
you think he's one above her?
Yeah.
Like being super accurate.
Power.
Yeah.
But it's, it's not like, it's not, it's not a super power.
That's like that.
There aren't that many arrows are because depending on what those arrows are,
that really is, that puts a huge amount.
And we're talking about a guy who has arrows that do fucking crazy shit.
Like they explode.
They melt through things.
They shoot bullets.
Sometimes I don't, I can't, I'm struggling to picture that many situations where,
um, having that level of accuracy would be, you know, like sure, you know,
sure it would happen a few times, maybe, but like normally you can just get away
with throwing a grenade at the area and it will blow up the thing that you want it to blow up.
Like you don't need super accurate explosion, you know, projecting most of the time.
I don't know that I agree.
I think accuracy is a big part of it.
So you're saying that you only believe he's powerful because he's a man.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, okay.
So, okay.
I can agree with that.
Very well.
Not, I mean, do we have to bring up the whole long bows or not really ideal weapons for people
who are generally weaker in the upper body strength department?
I thought you were going to say long bows are not the ideal weapon.
When Megan Hunter said Black Widow had super serum, it was in the movies.
I don't remember them ever saying Black Widow had super serum.
If she does have super serum though, then that does, uh, that does definitely change things.
Yeah.
Like that's my bad.
If I, if I missed that, but unless that's in a new movie, yeah, if she has a like super serum,
like Captain America or something, yeah, that then that'll definitely change things.
But not, not women generally, the average woman, like it's going to be worse than the average man,
but not every person is the average woman or the average man.
If you're equal in hand to hand weaponry and the like,
do you really get a giant bump due to superhuman accuracy?
I think you do.
Yeah, you do.
It just accentuates all of your abilities.
If you're not accurate, if you're, if you're very accurate up close,
then yeah, because you still have to hit people with melee weapons.
I do want to clarify, they have fights in the MCU where they don't,
they often draw, right?
Or will come close to it anyway.
And so it's like, so surely the power levels are equal.
And it's like, I don't know.
It's just that every time he's against enemies, he's fucking lethal.
Oh, someone, someone just sent me this.
I think you'll enjoy it.
I am now excited.
Hopefully we can see that movie so bad.
Look at this shit.
Whoever said super serum for Black Widow was a filthy liar.
As far as the movies are considered like, Oh God,
she had red room training, some kind of Soviet super spy program.
Yeah.
Like as far as I'm aware, she's had like some of the most intense training
and she was very young.
That's why she's like pretty exceptional.
But I don't think she has any super serum.
Anybody who could defeat Black Widow is a force to be reckoned with.
Yeah.
Unless you've got super duper powers in which case just like, well, you know.
Or a penis.
Yes.
The superpower that is the penis.
All right.
Let's close this out.
A hero in a super hero movie.
Would you be able to beat Black Widow if you had like no dick with balls?
Yeah.
So it's like, I like how that shop is almost as good
as the CGI that you actually do whenever people open up there.
Yeah.
Oh man, people have like the complaint of this suit
that there's not enough room for Bruce Banner.
Now you sound super muffled.
Oh, what's?
Hang on.
Well, while you fix that, I'm going to use the restroom.
Is that better?
No.
Okay.
I don't know what's wrong then.
You sound like you're talking like this.
What is this thing?
I'm not.
I'm not doing like anything in my mic right now.
It's just normal.
I need you to fix your shit, dude.
I'll see what I can do.
We'll see how people are like, what about the I had everything discussion?
We're nearly there.
Yeah, we'll get there.
Let's see.
We got to finish this video, do some memes, and then that's coming up next, right?
Yes.
Or the meme section will be a relatively small.
And hopefully, and hopefully, is it movie Bob or Hitler?
Because I'm really looking forward to that.
Yes, that is on its way as well.
I hope you guys have got a clean schedule.
Oh, gotcha.
How's this?
Hey, that's better.
I just unplugged it and unplugged it back in.
Wait, Shad had to do that a lot as well.
Remember?
And maybe it's Oh, no, I've got a I've got a Oh, God.
You've got an Australian problem.
I'm upside down.
How does it feel?
All the blood is rushing to my head.
Is that why Australians are so smart?
Yeah.
Also, they're men, so.
Oh.
Um, I'm just gonna I'm just gonna stare at chat,
see if I find anything interesting while we wait for ranks.
You need the movie Bob Adolf quiz.
You merely adopted the game.
I was born in it.
The superpower that is.
One more hour and I'll be joining you boys with a drink.
Actually.
Oh, yeah, I could maybe should remain coherent, I suppose.
Next time we have drinker on, I will have a drink.
I've got a big.
You can just stop right there, Jay.
I've got a big.
Someone said I can't send a super chat.
Please help.
I don't know what to do.
Somebody helped that poor man.
That's such a horrible condition.
I'm below.
I love you, though.
You hate Dark Souls, too.
Like Dark Souls, too.
We found them.
Ragaroo, you backaroo.
I'm backaroo me.
Oh, my goodness.
Let's do this thing.
A hero in a superhero movie.
The reason this happens is to do it.
The continual theme of these movies of empowerment,
of believing in special individuals who can do amazing things.
Well, I guess, you know, it does link in with the theme,
but if that's not the reason it happens.
Yeah, it's not because she's a hero.
I guess that's the reason that she's afraid that way.
One at a time.
They're heroes because they do amazing things.
They don't do amazing thing because they're heroes.
What a terrible message that would be.
I know, right?
They were already heroes to begin with.
That's why they do stuff.
Everyone who does good stuff is like a special designated good person
and everyone else doesn't matter.
Also, Aubrey, hot vid 30 chat with me.
Hello.
Oh, they're back.
No, they're back again.
I mean, I only said one thing.
It was just funny because one of the ones that they did was high rags.
That is kind of funny, though, that it's Aubrey, hot video chat with me.
All right.
I wonder if there's anything actually on it.
My secret X X X video live chat one video put up two hours ago.
It's got 137 views.
Click this for live chat with me.
Okay.
Well, let's see if okay.
Only 137 views.
I don't think this method is working.
Well, let's see live chat with me.
Okay.
Well, no, maybe there are lots of channels with these kinds of videos on them.
Don't get an STD rags.
All right.
We finally get to finish this sign up for free in just one minute.
What is your gender?
Oh, females.
Definitely.
Yep.
There's a male my private fling.com.
I'm a female.
She I sure want to chat with Aubrey.
Aubrey sounds really nice.
Aubrey sounds like she's look.
Listen, sounds more like a fruit.
Might be a whore, but it bought her a house.
All right.
Butter house.
I can't say that.
I'm not shaming her.
I just said I bought her a house.
Slut shaming butter houses.
This happens is to do with the continual theme of these movies of empowerment,
of believing in special individuals who can do amazing things
and to some degree are simply empowered by their fundamental goodness.
But that's theme again, which is slightly anathema to this way of thinking.
It's really not.
Why dumb?
Stop it.
How do you think you concluded the things you just concluded?
You got a bunch of references
and all we want to know is whether or not your reference references were accurate.
Objectivity.
The fundamental difference here is the black widow winning a fight
that seems unlikely stretches the suspension of disbelief
beyond levels that they can maintain.
And suspension of disbelief depends on the scenario.
Yeah.
What can I say?
I just want to question his position on this.
I'd just be like, we just have, you know, in Endgame,
you know, he boops Captain Marvel and they show a shot where she's knocked out
and he's about to snap it.
But then black widow with a kitchen knife chops off his arm
and he's like, what the fuck?
And then she punches him and he goes flying across the earth.
And then they all hail her as saving the world.
And we all clap.
And I just be like, do you have any issue with that?
Because I don't.
I think it's great because he's I don't know.
So as soon as you establish that you do care,
then it's about where the line is drawn.
And as far as we're concerned, I think the only fair way to draw the line
is just being definitive about any information you have
and whether or not you feel that you can suspend your disbelief
going to be down to each individual.
Were you saying that's subjective?
No, I'm saying it's all subjective.
Oh, I shouldn't have said kitchen knife.
Whoops.
Oh, Jesus.
I'm sorry.
I should have said sword fell for the trap.
Why do you sound muffled again?
T for somebody say say T if.
Oh, T for themes, maybe press T for theme.
Yeah, there you go.
Is the kitchen knife supposed to be Alfred?
Yes.
There's the Black Widow winning a fight that seems unlikely
stretches the suspension of disbelief beyond levels that they can maintain.
And suspension of disbelief is just about the most subjective thing.
Agreed.
I can imagine at the end of the day,
they won't believe a woman could win a fight, but they'll believe a man could fly.
Yeah, if the rules are grounded, if the rules are explained,
then I can absolutely believe it.
Yes, you're right.
Simultaneously, though, we will not believe a man can win a fight
and we'll believe a woman can fly.
It depends.
So hold on.
Did he just turn this entire thing into a gender thing?
Yeah.
So like, OK, so, oh, Superman can fly because we think he has penis power now.
It comes with.
No, they're saying that it's really good.
It doesn't make any sense for us to believe that Superman can fly
if we simultaneously believe that Black Widow can't win certain fights.
No, I think he's saying that we believe he she can't win any fight.
I almost that was me being a little charitable, but
just it's really hard to tell because this video is so dogshit.
I'm so done.
I'm not even sitting through the last 20 seconds.
We're done.
Oh, I think.
Yeah, I think it's because it's because it's just told me that this guy wanted to be.
Wanted to be what?
Get reactions wanted to be a covered on efap and he's been trolling the disco to get reactions.
Oh, well, he got his wish, I suppose.
I don't care.
Really?
The someone I want to show if you if you throw up the video, right?
Look at the comments.
You got Quinton reviews said, damn, what a final line.
Wow.
Can't wait to see a 15 hour response that pauses between every two syllables you make
as a creator is absorbed.
None of what you're saying and randomly guess at what your point is based on a specific half a word.
Nailed it.
Quinton.
That's the thing is like he specifically said things and we they we respond to this.
Quinton's actually here.
No, no, no.
I should help.
But it's so great to have him be the one saying this.
The one who like fucking lied about me in rags more than once.
It's like proven and he already like he has a line on library.
He's just like always mistakes like don't even fucking go there, dude.
You have no leg to stand on.
All right.
Stop it, Quinton.
You're awful.
And also that final line is just bullshit.
He's already established that he's got nothing to do with men and women at that point.
Superpowers versus non superpowers.
Yeah, that changes the shit of everything.
Is he aware that Supergirl is a thing?
No, shut up.
Do you have any problem believing she can fly?
It's like, no, the show because she's a woman.
And for no other reasons that have anything to do with quality.
I don't like that show because she's I don't like it either.
It's fucking wobbly.
Well, for the clips, I see it.
It looks awful.
I saw a crisis on Infinite Earth and it's insanely bad crisis.
I would just like I would just recommend this guy do his best to maybe for once in his life,
look at things from a different point of view.
That's all.
At least try to understand what you're criticizing because you're just making
rookie ass mistakes here.
Ass mistakes.
I mean, he's one of this, like a bazillion.
This is the thing.
If we were to do like responding to videos that are vaguely or directly addressing Efap,
we wouldn't be able to do any normal episodes anymore.
We're very much like not in favor of covering them at this point
because this keeps happening.
There's the other one that we were people are asking us to cover where they open with saying
objectivity, meaning the majority vote on what is good is like they think objectivity
is the majority opinion.
And we're like, what the where the fuck did you get that from?
The majority opinion is that Mandalorian is good.
The majority opinion is that Spaceballs isn't boring.
It's yeah, it's just like it's just like, by the way, some people are like,
where's this video findable?
And who made it?
So it's fine.
You don't need to know really something.
Obviously, some mentally challenged person.
You don't need to find it because we don't want to encourage any kind of
brigading.
And if we're to believe what Jay said, then apparently that's what this guy wants.
And he's probably going to do the thing with a screenshot, all the comments.
And then they post on Twitter about how more and more made a 10 hour.
Find it.
Go find it and be nice.
Just leave some constructive criticism.
Just tell them that basically have like, cool.
You seem like a nice guy, but like, study, like a nice guy.
He's like, oh, they didn't like these movies because they are bigots.
And like, whoa, they go on, you know, he started.
Just qualify as the next person.
He's like, oh, so this is nicely narrated and edited.
But I think there's some points here that aren't quite right.
It's not, though.
Look at this.
I think you're right.
Yeah, listen, you've been like, you're not the stupidest person on the planet.
Hey, there you go.
Things are looking up for that person at that point.
All right.
So I'm going to do a couple of memes and then we'll be moving on to the main event,
which is naturally coming in at the like three hour ish mark.
Like, yeah, that makes sense, right?
I don't even know you're covering this.
It was very exciting.
Cover another terrible video that doesn't know what the hell it's talking about.
It's a whole it's a whole mixed bag today.
Like, it's just you don't want your space and time.
So that's a movie.
It's really good.
You should watch it and venture through space and time.
Yeah, I think it might be.
And it sounds kind of generic and space and time.
Hello, alien.
Yeah, it's from twenty thirteen and adventure and space and time.
All right.
We have to acknowledge him.
Hello, Matt.
Hello.
Oh, what's he doing?
He muffled Mike.
Some things get thrown into means where I'm curious as to what I'm supposed to do with them.
It's Joker Jay, I suppose.
There's Joker Jay.
I like that one.
I saw it.
It's good.
I feel like I feel like doing the kill.
No, just wait.
What's Joker day?
It's maybe my Halloween like one of the incel celebration.
I think it might be.
It might be what I do for Halloween.
Hello.
Incel celebration day.
Yeah.
It's like, hey, women, terrible.
Black Widow can't be up anyone.
Society Jay.
Society Jay.
This is a screenshot of that Mandalorian podcast, I believe.
Got Efap fighting, Efap chat.
Very dramatic.
Was it a split-tism?
Splism.
Splism.
This is when I think we're talking about how
Mandalorian was spotted by the village people.
All those village people.
I hope you'll learn one person.
Hey, Rags, you happy to read something?
Yeah, let's give it a look.
Oh, my.
This is the story of the spiders by the spider Wibitious gifted to Scooby-Doo-Doo-Yous.
Scooby-Doo-Yous?
Wibitious.
Quintinous, the immortal, arrived at our cave at dusk with an army of tisms.
We were expecting him, for we foresaw this meeting.
Quintinous dismounted his rhino and demanded to see us.
As he walked into our cave, my brothers and I greeted him.
We have been expecting you, Quintinous, I demanded.
What do you ask of us, young massive?
Quintinous gripped his stick-like weapon furiously and yelled,
my master, Babilius Chimpanius, told me that the Longmen still live.
Does he lie?
We crawled to our cosmic crystal egg and we shouted our chant.
Tisms and geodes consumed by the cosmic rhino give this massive what he seeks.
As we finished, we saw what he was seeking.
My oldest brother, Spaghettius, shouts, your master does not lie.
The Longmen are not all extinct.
He continues, there is one Longman.
Quintinous screamed, if there is one more Longman, then tell me how to find him,
or I will kill all of you with my army of tisms.
I told my brothers before he arrived that we must not reveal his location,
for the Longman has an even higher importance.
My youngest and last brother, Spigar.
Spigar? Spigar?
Crawl's close to Quintinous and says, if you attack us,
it will be the death of you and your army.
We know every strategy will use against us.
And then shouted, leave massive before you make Babilius search for a new massive.
Spaghettius announces, you will be searching for him till the end of days, Quintinous,
but you will never be able to kill him.
Quintinous said, let me just say, I hate the Longmen.
They embarrass me every day.
We interrupt, leave.
You have gotten what you seen.
He reached for his stick like weapon in trying to strike me.
We destroyed his weapon and threw him out of our cave and sealed off the entrance.
The story has ended.
As the great jib he said, please clap.
My God.
Very cool.
Couldn't see you, but I stood up for that.
Embarrassing.
I'll sit down.
Okay.
Why sit him down?
Why not?
It's hard to be, but I like it.
There was a couple of doom images coming up.
This is one of them, of course.
He's using themes to attack me.
An objectively bad take.
You have it a giggle asshole.
If you've seen Blade Runner, or the new Blade Runner, sorry.
This makes a lot of sense and I like it.
If you have it, it'll be confusing.
It's just Quintinous desires.
That's all you need to know.
Terrifying, terrifying desires.
What's that thing on his face?
It's like a band-aids duct tape thing, because he broke his nose.
I believe.
You can't.
I'm a film stud net, Night Ralph of Tism.
1420 at the Battle of Tism.
Ralph's bad joke a take.
I wouldn't say I like you, Night Mauler of Long.
1420 at the Battle of Tism.
Oh my God.
And I've got Rags, Literature Devil, Metal and Jay on my gauntlet of eFap.
You've got Woof, Darko Baggins, Wise Words on the Battle of Tism.
Oh, I think you saw this one already, Ranks, but it's a classic.
Oh, that is a good one.
Little wags.
Why am I always the woman?
From Greta Thunberg, the writer and director of How Dare You.
Why I'm always the woman?
Why I'm always the woman.
I think this is when you were drunk.
Magnublius Ragusks.
Ragusks.
Again, with a beautiful image.
The words are rags.
This is a mural.
There's a lot of these doom ones.
Yeah, I guess eFap, Community of Sea, the people we cover is demons.
I mean...
Well, it's Doom Eternal coming out soon and everybody's really waiting for it.
No, no, it's what I said.
eFap likes to make images of the murder of people they disagree with.
Yes, because they are ill-moraled creatures.
This is someone having created Mooper, I believe.
Like Movie Bob's the fat demon down there.
You got episode one.
It's eMapp.
Todd Phillips make hangover so jokers suck assholes.
Got moron and damaged on his head.
eMapp 2.
People who dislike DC movies have tiny dicks.
It says proof in...
So I guess the video.
These are the videos that eMapp is responding to, clearly.
And your Scott Pilgrim sucks because Jesse Eisenberg sounds whiny.
Oh, I guess that was an orange video.
Wow.
Aliens is overrated.
Ripley is only best friend.
Hot.
Damn.
And then when Mooper finally did it,
Covered Ralph, the movie maker, has a dumb face.
I like him, though.
I want to pay him to fucking bob a jude.
Mooch.
Eeere.
Disgusting.
Rag.
Raggers.
Rags.
Rag assets.
It's a lot of rags.
Own rags.
Shut up rags.
Never.
This dog is trying to sniff out people who need to buy another gum.
What?
Another gun.
Oh, sorry.
How did I...
You idiot.
I'm sorry.
A lot of people made the loop-a-boo-boo-beams.
This is a wonderful little rendition of I Assume Me.
It could just be a nondescript gas mask person with red eyes.
I don't know for sure.
It could be a TKO, sure, drawing.
Could be, yeah.
Oh, we got another Doom one.
My god.
I like that people use that Quentin face all the time.
It's ridiculous.
It's really terrible.
That's such a good Quentin face.
Okay, there's Jojo down there.
Jojo's been in a lot of these.
He needs to do another video for us to respond to.
Rags managed to beat the rhino.
Nice.
Damn, son.
Size portrayal.
Why does it keep growing of rags?
It's super effective.
Are you sure that the back version of the molar head came all the way from the Kingsman video?
I think that was the first time it was made,
and a lot of people are using it, and I'm okay with this.
That is how the back looks.
Oh my god, Doom again.
We are doomed.
See what I did there?
No, no.
This is a big hand in the background.
That's probably a large demon.
No.
It's just nearby.
Oh, but it looks like it's behind the brown table.
No, it's just a hand that's right next to the camera, and then it fades away.
Okay.
This is why I have you around, Jay.
And that's why I also use things like this to kick you.
Oh no, it's terrifying.
Why is there...
Oh, there's blood on it, too.
Because the stairs are made of knives.
Yeah, that's why I mean there's blood on them as well.
That means the Isle of Man bleeds.
Oh my god, another Doom one.
What's a Doom one?
Dealing with...
Why don't we have five legs?
Now, do you know normal people mute their mics when they eat?
No, I don't know what I'm talking about.
Normal people don't scrape their knives across their plates.
Yes.
Normal people have good sounding mics.
Am I muffled again?
No, you're fine right now.
He's fucking with you.
I'm surprised nobody commented on the Cherub.
J-J-Jeb.
Cher-Cher-Jeb.
Cher-Cher.
Cher-Cher.
I like this one.
I think the Ralph is in the background.
This is something someone theorized on on Twitter.
Someone on Twitter hears about Mauler for the first time and forms a negative
opinion based on him solely on word of mouth.
That person tweets about how Mauler is alt-right, Christian,
Holocaust denier who makes videos with no BS.
Mauler and Hoyt's fans call that person out for spreading misinformation.
That person makes more tweets calling Mauler a defensive,
insecure bully who can't take criticism.
And then it resets again.
But, uh, I mean, it'll end, right?
No.
When you die.
Oh.
First you read it, then you die.
For every screenshot.
You don't have to be alive until that's happened.
You don't have to be alive to read?
No, you don't have to be alive for people to, like, hear about you and then,
oh, that guy must be a...
Um, another example of Mupa.
Hunted by your future, haunted by your past.
Also, I think that's a new version of an alternate angle for my mask.
Yeah, in this scenario, that means Ralph kills himself and it kills me.
The meaning you can draw from that is intense.
I have a second law entry.
Brags you up to it.
Let's give it a look.
Journal entry of the first encounter of Goliath by Smigidius,
the Night Watchman, translated by Scooby Dubious.
January is 23rd.
Year of the third-
Januarius?
Januarius.
We were attacked last night by a hideous creature we believe was the how,
was the thing that destroyed our rhino milk supply.
I could hear a painful howl and then silence.
I thought nothing of it until there was a loud crash at the wall.
The wall had been breached.
I could see the beast.
It was larger than all the buildings in the city.
A guard ran to me and told me I need to help kill a giant beast
that I could barely see in the darkness.
By the time we got to the beast, its backs was covered in arrows,
yet it seemed to not notice.
Over thirty nights charged at this beast and the beast breathed fire
and burnt them to a crisp, just like my wife's cooking on Tuesdays.
The battle continued.
We cut and stabbed the beast till our blades became dull.
It never showed a hint of pain.
I climbed on top of a building and I charged towards it and struck at its eye.
It countered me and I was flung through a building.
That I found out was my second wife Helga's house
because my extremely heavy armor hit her at the speed of a carriage.
That pleased me, but then the beast tried to pull me out of the house.
I kept stabbing at its paws, but nothing happened.
It then grabbed me and threw me into some of the guards.
It continued its rampage, slaughtering and eating anything in its path.
It was horrible.
It even killed the rhino milk salesman.
It reached the castle and destroyed it.
I could see it breathed fire into it,
completely roasting everyone inside like my wife's Tismday chicken.
We all battled this beast till the brink of dawn.
When it fled our kingdom, we were devastated.
We were once many.
Now we have become few.
What massive would create such a beast such as that one?
Very hard to keep a record on Goliath, but
we think we showed this one before.
I still love it.
Someone found a photo of me in my previous job, right?
Oh my, there you are.
You're all the way up there.
Those pants are not going to fit him.
Well, not.
Yeah, I'm handing them to somebody, obviously.
Geez.
This was someone commissioned Pikachu to have something made
and I saw it on Twitter because it was liked.
And I was like, that's adorable.
Efap is my mommy.
Sorry about the abuse.
What about your what?
What?
The joke is gone.
Never mind.
All right.
It never got here, dude.
I think he said sorry about your Jews because he's very racist.
I don't really know.
No.
Typical German.
I don't even need any captions or discussion about this one.
It's self-evident.
I feel it deep in my doggo bones.
It's like it already turned his heart and he was having visions that cock.
All right.
Oh, I think this is just Efap sort of checking out art and stuff.
A lot of sense.
Yeah, what is that from?
Oh, you've seen that, right?
I have, yeah.
Not recently, though.
I have seen it.
Oh, Jay, you'll like this.
I was made on Minecraft, I guess.
Neat.
Yeah, that looks pretty good.
Why do you think I'd like that, huh?
Specifically me.
Because you like Raid Shadow Legends, right?
I'm actually going to do a stream playing that soon.
It's going to be fun.
I'm going to start my review.
It's not going to be fun.
Raid.
Stream it and then play it and then review it.
No, I'm going to play it while I'm streaming it, actually.
You're going to review it while you're streaming it.
I'm going to review it while I'm streaming it.
No, I'm going to review it after I stream it.
Yeah, I guess this is something you can get and use and stuff.
The long man travels the wilds of Tismaria in search of the fabled cosmic chicken sustained
through his battle against the orphans only by rhino milk and weird grapes.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Is it all candid video of rags chilling out somewhere?
I'm not sure where, but doing his thing.
Oh, what's up?
He's dreaming about something.
Sometimes you just got one of those days.
Yeah, dreaming about dreaming about jumping.
Yeah, sure.
Jumping.
And someone made this for a potential if you think about Valentine's Day thing.
But we're probably not we're not going to be able to do it on Valentine's Day specifically.
So it could have been the cover.
It's nice.
Just do the one nearest to Valentine's Day because it's done hard work.
Yeah, because if it's the eighth, then we, you know, we could do it.
I don't know.
That's the day it is now.
Yeah, right.
It's the eighth now.
Well, I mean, yeah, I'd say that if it's the eighth, you know, today, then you realize
with the next one, it wouldn't be too far from it with this trend started.
It's going to be it's going to be like every every minor holiday going to make the covers.
They're going to get used now.
All right.
It's time.
Okay.
So context time.
Everybody who's watched the FAP at this point knows that, like, I hate everything is on the
question mark list, whether or not like this and who is asshole person who is friendly.
Like, what's going on there?
And there's always like a tug of war thing going on.
And if you remember, it was a quiet for a while.
And then Rags and I played a podcast clip where he wasn't exactly being charitable.
You could put it that like that.
And then it was still quiet again.
And then he put out his video on Ryze Skywalker and he left a thing in there.
And I was like, oh, oh, he really annoyed me because he's supposed to be trying to like,
you know, not not rock the boat seem to be what the goal should be.
But no, maybe I'm just retarded on that front.
Maybe I just don't understand what he actually was his goal.
And so he sent me a message, like, partially confused as to why I was like,
pissed off at him.
And I was like, we should probably finally have a discussion about it.
That'd be great.
Because I think I mentioned in this thing, but we'd set them up several times.
And it just never seems to happen.
And so he's like, fine, let's do it.
And he agreed to let me record it and play it on the FAP.
And so this this is the essentially the conclusion of trying to talk about everything that happened.
And obviously, if anybody wants to pause and comment at any point to add anything,
I imagine Rags might want to at some point.
Can do it was very civil.
And you guys should be able to get some confirmation
on different things about what happened from I hate everything directly.
This is going to be an epap within an epap now.
Don't get weird.
So is this going into the watch together or?
Yes.
And it's going to be released as an EU after we've covered it.
Like, I'll probably put it out like a day after this one, I suppose.
And so it's an hour long.
So we're going to be mostly listing to it a log with the people in chat.
You got a second so I could grab a drink.
Yeah, go for it.
No, sorry about that.
I probably should have done that earlier.
But it's fine.
I mean, the opening, like, I want to say 10 minutes or so or five minutes is like we just
just cordial.
Yeah, we're just talking about how Rise of Skywalker sucks.
Okay, go ahead and play.
I'll be right with you.
Rise of Skywalker does suck.
The clarification.
This is not the conversation that Wolf and I had with him.
This is one.
Yeah, he has not.
He has to not have that go up.
So you're not getting that one.
Sorry.
And that's going to be discussed here as well.
So wait, go get your drink.
Yeah.
Drinkle dinkle.
You excited, guys?
The first podcast where we we could literally leave and just pretend we were here the whole
time.
I'm incredibly excited plan.
Other than I'll test it by being like, is everyone here still like half an hour?
And if you don't all say yes, then I'll fire you.
I mainly mean Jay, but yeah.
Okay, that's fine.
And then he'll find me because he's manager.
And then it'll just all get fucked up.
An efap within an efap.
Yeah, it's terrifying.
A fap within a fap.
A fap for all.
We'll have a opening.
There'll be a dead chat in the window, but then this chat will be commenting on that
chat being dead and making fun of them and throwing popcorn at them.
You suck all dead.
Can't just make fun of people for being dead.
On you.
I read an addiction.
I could list.
Oh, that's a waste.
I thought it was going to be the infamous clip.
I hate everything.
Beg more or not to release.
It's not like, like I said, it gets discussed.
Anything of interest that is in that one is essentially discussed in this one.
Confirmation stuff.
Also can't get on with it yet.
We're waiting for that bullshit to return.
I'm back bullshit.
Oh my God.
Okay.
All right.
Like I said, you pulled it every one.
It's not a, it's not a huge deal.
Here we go.
I suppose.
Can we, um, so yeah, I guess the easy thing to say would be rise of Skywalker was,
I mean, I don't know how you feel about it specifically in as many words,
but I thought it was a disaster.
Yeah.
I'm curious.
Do you think it's better or worse than the last Jedi?
I've had that discussion with a couple of people.
We're doing a podcast tomorrow to go through it.
Just quit.
Just quit.
What do you reckon?
Honestly, I'm on the fence.
It's really so that the way I would break it down.
Simply is I think TLJ does more damage to character, but, uh,
rise of Skywalker has, I think done the most damage to the legacy of souls.
Like it, it's completely undone Anakin sacrifice, which was.
Does it not bug you how this last one feels way more like a product and not like.
Sure.
It feels like it's trying to find it to everybody.
Like, even if you hate the last Jedi and, you know, I'm gradually getting there.
Clearly.
Um, at least it was one guy's like story and vision.
That's something that they're very.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm actually in favor of the singular writer director, assuming they are able to
handle it all and stuff.
And, you know, I, I would never have been on board with JJ taking the ending of the trilogy.
He's like, I'm very familiar with his work and he's just not good at it.
Who else even wanted the job?
It's like an impossible fucking job.
I can't believe.
That's true.
I got to be honest with you, man.
Like if, well, then again, if I was offered like a billion dollars or whatever to do,
I probably would be interested, but I would actually, I would tell people like,
I don't know if I'll be able to do it, but I feel like I could have done better than JJ,
at least in writing the story because my God, the MacGuffins man.
I think, I think it's, it was actually an impossible task.
I can't imagine even Wade begin, you know, what is left.
Well, that's the, yeah, that's part of it.
So a lot of people will say that, you know,
TLJ was damaged because of the fact that it had to be a sequel to the terrible TFA,
but ROS or whatever you want to call it, TROS, episode nine,
was also damaged by the fact that it had to be a sequel to a film that ended.
Like everything ended.
I don't even know where they were supposed to go.
Yeah.
Like I love that we open with Ray training as if it's like, hey, look,
like that's my, that's like, I can't believe this.
Like the character is supposed to have progressed a little bit, you know,
they're supposed to be like in the last chapter of their story at this point.
The one time she trains, she loses to Kylo.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Made it like the complete reverse of how we understood it with Luke.
Yes. Total pandering to, to like feedback.
You know, they're not even making their own movie anymore.
They're just making a checklist based on things people are saying online.
And so we, we make sort of jokes about how like, um,
they take shots at TLJ in the trailer by having a remaking the mask.
I never expected there to be so many, so many blatant shots against TLJ in this film.
It's like a better movie.
It was like one of the weirdest aspects to me because it's like a hateful film almost.
Like that was bothering me almost more than anything.
It's like, okay, you could have at least been a little bit glass half full about it.
Like, fuck me.
Like there's still the middle film in the trilogy, for God's sake.
Like it doesn't just not exist.
The way they just ignore Rose.
She's like kicked out of the film.
Yeah.
Like it, it creates even more problems because it makes it just
weirder that Finn doesn't even like talk to her about like the kiss they had.
Or like, there's just, there's no implication as to their relationship at that point.
Yeah. It's ignored.
Yeah.
I know that's the same.
Lots of TLJ's retconned.
Like the, uh, they call the Holdo's maneuver a one in a million shot.
I don't, I don't think.
Yeah. That just made me ask, ask even more questions about it.
You know, that just made it even more distracting.
I would have preferred if they just didn't mention it.
Because then you can just pretend that it doesn't exist.
But now they got you thinking about it.
It's just a big target.
I don't see how she was going to miss if she went straight forward.
If that's how that works, I don't understand.
Yeah.
And there are like so many other more creative ways they could have
tried to write themselves out of it, but that was the way they took it.
All right.
And that's the thing.
If we ignore Star Wars and The Last Jedi and everything else,
the film itself is godawful.
Your standard sort of, uh, writing issues.
The entire final battle is, is ridiculous.
They say that, uh, the ships don't know how to go up on their own.
They have to have someone tell them how.
But if they destroy that thing, they win.
Just the fleet of, like, Death Star enabled Star Destroyers?
Like, I can't believe that.
Like, what is enticing about it?
Well, what can be bigger than that?
That's we've, we've backs that we've got a army of Star Destroyers,
mobile Star Destroyers.
Well, I say mobile, but like more mobile and yeah, it's insane.
It's JJ Abrams.
That's what I mean.
Like all of this just matches up with what he does.
Um, yeah, I compared it to Star Trek Into Darkness.
Have you seen that movie?
Yes.
Um, without knowing anything about Star Trek, I found it to be a action packed
adventure, but listening to people break it down.
I was just like, yeah, this is pretty bad.
Yeah, it has like a similar kind of problem where it's just
pandering to fans of the series at the like most top level and not even
thinking about their own story.
It's just what JJ Abrams does.
And he's done for so many of his films.
And didn't he make like a deal with Warner Brothers for 500 million to
start working on DC movies?
He's uh, he's seriously, he's wiping through franchises.
You know, he's done with Star Wars.
Yeah, man.
Not impressed.
And so, uh, you've, you've come to sort of not appreciate TLJ as much now.
Yeah.
Well, now we have to dial it back a bit, I suppose, to sort of give some
context as to this whole situation.
Of course, the main reason we know each other is because of my fairly
controversial last Jedi video where I was, I was, I attempted to sort of
deconstruct the, the, the reaction more than just talking about the movie.
And I don't think that's what people wanted, but I was, my logic was that
everyone had already said everything they could about the movie.
And I didn't get like just a normal review up fast enough.
So I was like, what's the different angle I can take?
Let's try and talk about the fan shit.
And it just, it didn't work out ultimately in the end.
And I regret that angle of the video.
And I wish I had just talked about the movie because I would have bought
other dumb shit.
I always knew that there was a lot of dumb shit in the movie.
I'm going to have to make sure I mentioned when the thing is paused
because otherwise people will think this is a part of the video is paused
right now.
I think I bring up that you have not shown regret for your video compared to
the other two.
It's like everyone else except me regrets that they made the video in which
they hadn't.
Fuck no.
I was right.
My video was correct.
The rebuttals were garbage.
I'm glad I made it and I would have done it again.
Check me out.
What's the video?
What was the video about?
Well,
there was, well, the last Jedi video that we're talking about right now for my
hate.
Everything was saying like, Oh, uh, the fans are harassing me and this is a
fine movie and I was never bored.
And then the other one referring to is the one by the right opinion and where
he got on Quentin and it was a total abortion, probably way worse than I
hate these videos.
So, um, yeah, that's what we're referring to those two.
And both of them have gone on record saying that they regretted
making their videos.
And I suppose quickly for clarification timeline, uh, I hate everything
makes this video on TLJ rags response to it.
TR response to that.
We respond to that in the meantime, sniping is going on and, uh, there was
never a time where we got to have a civil conversation and there's all
kinds of reasons it happened, but, uh, we eventually did in amongst all of
this and, uh, it went well.
And because Wolf had recorded it, but not released it, it caused loads of
bad blood, which to me was always just a misunderstanding.
And we do go over it.
Okay.
Like I joked about it with my friends once like I finished it, but I hadn't
had someone break down the actual like plot and why a lot of it is like, and
point out things like one of the most egregious things about the movie being
that on canto bite those and the fucking animals and shit, they like
prioritize the animals over the, the human children and like human, like
smarter entities that are there that are implied to be like force sensitive.
Just stuff like that.
Like, yeah, you heard the counter.
It's like, well, what are they going to do?
Take them to a war zone.
It's like, how about they hyperspace to a safe place, drop them off and then go
to the wall.
How about you just don't have any of that in the movie?
Well, yeah, no, I agree.
That whole plot line is bizarre.
If, if it had ended with like, I don't know, I'm trying to think of like,
I shouldn't bother trying to try and fix it.
It's just that, yeah, that was one of the initial takes a lot of people had.
The main reason I like the idea of having the characters going to a planet and
establishing a place.
So then at the end of the movie, they can call back to a place that they've been to
show that their message is being spread.
Like I understand what he was going for, but it's through the execution.
It's the same with a lot of things in the movie.
Like I really like the idea of taking Luke to the place he goes in The Last Jedi,
but it's through the execution and just the lack of exploration that
it doesn't work on the same level that it really could.
And that's a, that's a part that really, that's like the most hurtful thing about
it.
I think to people is just the potentials.
It's like you get that little, that little tease of something that could be amazing.
And your mind goes wild just trying to imagine the kind of cool
shit that you could be seeing.
I mean, it's, it's fundamental, right?
Like why, why is it that we can't just have episode seven and we have
Ray is called Darth Vader.
And you're like, well, they're not the same character whatsoever.
And it's like, yeah, well, it's been 30 years.
Could have been like, it's not how it works.
It's like, well, we had a flashback.
It's like, that was like five seconds.
Like with that, we need a lot more than that.
It's like, well, Luke said the Jedi have failed in the prequels.
That explains kind of his motivation.
It's like, but that's so one sided.
They did everything they could to stop Emperor Palpatine.
That's ridiculous.
So have you gone back a bit on the, on the fact that it went wrong with The Last Jedi
more so than just the whole direction of the franchise from the work go?
Well, so I'm the only, the only significant interesting change I would have had since
like two years ago probably would be that I think TFA went from like an okay movie to terrible.
The more I explored all the plot elements, because I'm still working on my series to
sort of get through all of what's wrong with that film.
I think it's the best of the three, but it's terrible and that they're all terrible.
And that this entire project from Disney was on its face a blatant way to just be like,
Hey, we want more OT. How do we do that?
Yeah, I guess I would concede that Ryan was the one out of the two of them that seemed
to want to do his do something with it.
I just, I don't really celebrate that when it's botched.
JJ, you know, like I just said to the force awakens, I think is the best one,
even though it's a complete clone, a really bad clone.
But I think he achieved that better than Ryan achieved what he was aiming to do.
But yeah, I say in the video I just put up today about the new movie,
I talk about The Last Jedi, I don't know how I think about it now.
What part was I thinking of?
It's such a fucking reevaluation.
I've got a pinpoint what I'm talking about.
What were you just saying about Luke?
I mean, this is the thing, just to clarify, I still kind of hate that movie.
I hate like the plot makes no sense.
I hate the way so many characters are treated and how much they don't care
if it calls an effect.
I appreciate the message of the film, but I just think it was botched.
Like I stand by that.
Poe didn't make a bad decision in the opening from the information we have.
And a lot of people will argue, it's like, yeah, but you know,
pissed off Leia, like, and those people die.
It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But yeah, he had to do all these things.
Like if he didn't do that, they'd all be dead.
And I'm sorry that Ryan made it the way that he did.
But that's all I can conclude from the narrative.
I look at him like I don't understand what he did wrong.
Yeah, there's only so many leaps of logic you can take,
even in a silly space movie.
You know what I mean?
Like, there is there needs to be rules that you saw.
Like, have you seen what's happening with Patrick Willems lately?
Like, he hates Rise of Skywalker.
Everybody said because he said, how fucking dare you to JJ Abrams?
And everyone was like, dude, taking this space movie for children a little
too seriously now, aren't you?
And he was getting very frustrated, which you could imagine.
I don't like to tell people that, however, they feel is over the top or,
you know, like, apathetic, right?
Because everybody's different.
But like, you know, the guy who like cries at the trailers regularly,
like, even I'm like, calm down, dude.
Like, it's all right.
It's all right.
But if someone said what you think that he can't because it's a kid,
I'd be like, no, just about anything, really.
Like, save that for like the birth of your child or a wedding or something.
But like, watching his trailer for Star Wars movie,
that does kind of blow me away personally is fine.
You know, and, you know, good luck to him.
Because I think I think that he's actually gained some fans from it.
And it's just like, yeah, he enjoys his media fine.
But, you know, Patrick has made it a very significant point of his platform
to be like, you cannot take this stuff this seriously.
It's for kids.
And I'm like, what?
Wally is one of my favorite movies of all time.
Yeah, that's the wrong way to put it.
What he should be saying is that he forgives things more than he doesn't
with that franchise because it's based off old adventure serials.
Like, that would make more sense.
Well, he's clarified in saying that he was specifically
talking about people who go out and harass cast members.
And as much as I understand that point, I completely agree with him.
That's totally not how it translated in his video.
And I don't think that's the point he was making in his video.
Honestly, I think it's just why why even pick the fight?
Well, he referenced me in that video as well.
He said, I don't care if there's a five hour video of a guy
angrily ranting about how she hates the film.
But I was like, it's not what I did, but all right.
Right.
And you know, if you if you said what I was doing is taking the movie too seriously,
I just feel like, no, I took it seriously.
They take pretty much any stories.
I like my stories.
I don't know.
Actually, Star Wars is quite close to me.
Luke Skywalker was not someone I realized I cared about so much until I watched TLJ.
Because I was like, what the hell happened to you?
Like, you know, like when he's like, go away.
I was like, Oh, my God, what the fuck?
Yeah, I mean, it's a totally fair perspective and read on the movie.
I get it.
Big time.
Well, how do you feel about your video right now?
Like that one back then?
Oh, my the last Jedi video I put out.
Yeah.
Yeah, I already sort of said like, I regret the angle I took.
And I wish I had just done a more regular review.
So maybe people would have understand did like, where I'm coming from a bit better.
That's what I was saying.
Like, I was reevaluating my new video, my more, you know, thoughtful,
look back at the film, because everyone knows the things that I like about it.
But they didn't really hear the things I didn't.
And the things that I don't like about the movie I sort of said today,
which are all the things, you know, it's just reiterating.
But it was the imbalance, I think, of that original video that
pissed people off and led to this impression.
Well, there was the quote I remember that annoyed me was the whole like,
Star Wars is a series about finding the light or whatever.
And it was like, why are fans like hating when they should?
Yeah, that's that's very over the top.
Well, yeah, because it was weird coming from you as well, because like,
I really like your takedown videos of stuff like Destiny.
I've never played Destiny.
And I really enjoy your video to just just throttling it, right?
And there's people are like, isn't that series equally about trying to like,
work toward the light?
Yeah, it's not consistent with the way I'd made videos before.
And that was a mistake to take that angle.
I mean, okay.
I can't change it now.
It's like it exists.
I'm not going to take the video down because I don't I don't do that.
I like leaving my my history up so people can see like,
I think it's important to show that your opinion can change.
Absolutely.
I mean, like, I think it's really toxic to life.
I've been open to if you asked me what I thought of TFA four years ago,
I'd have told you it was a great film.
Yeah.
And if you had me talk to me now, I'd be like, you are really not looking at
and I watched I think it was ER's video where I was like, holy shit.
Like, I didn't realize so much about what's wrong with TFA.
And then I looked into it myself.
And just being a little bit more critically eyed instead because I,
you know, I'm a big Star Wars fan.
Like JJ knew what he was doing.
He dangled them keys, man.
Like the Millennium Falcon Han Solo lightsabers.
I was just like, yeah, this is Star Wars.
I got my Star Wars.
And then once it all dies down, you're like, what the hell was that?
Yeah, because they just focus purely on the visual
and relied on nostalgia for the as the substance.
But nostalgia isn't substance.
So that's a problem.
Yeah, agreed.
And obviously, yeah.
So timeline of events, then Rags made his response to you.
Yeah, you were not happy with that response as far as I'm aware.
Well, obviously, I wasn't pleased.
No, no, no, like this is the natural result.
Anybody finds out there's a video on them.
They're immediately gonna be defensive.
That's totally.
Yeah.
And I have no problem with someone like disagreeing with me and going through
why they thought what I said was ridiculous.
I have no issues with that.
But obviously, like, it's just like awkward.
You know, it's like, when YouTube is making videos about each other,
like it's, it's like picking a fight in a way, you know, like it's
Well, I mean, you know, you're talking to the guy who's we've responded on
eFap now to more YouTubers than I don't even know what other single
I mean, you guys are way more used to it than I think a lot of other YouTubers are because
you know, I want to I want to clarify like our goal is never to bully or destroy
like as much as there may be some kind of like hyperbolic memes about it.
Like we've I don't know if you if I've said this before, but like our
I want to say fifth episode we address a video made about me
and the guy who made it came on to guest and we talked about his video
and he's now become the most regular guest we have outside of me and Rags.
So why do you think that sorry, excuse my voice people listening.
I've got a cold at the moment.
Why do you think there's like a narrative spread saying the opposite then to that kind of thing?
I don't think we do is common enough for people to not take it as essentially like,
like if you watch us and you know, let's just say we cover a guy who says,
Star Wars is is a show that is meant for babies.
No adult could ever enjoy something like this.
We might go like what a terrible opinion.
That makes no sense at all.
What a piece of shit.
Random words like that.
I can totally understand if they felt attacked or whatever.
I usually don't go as far as like being like this person's a piece of shit.
I'll usually try and be devil's advocate as much as I can,
but I will absolutely condemn arguments that I think are terrible.
And I try not to assume too much motivation unless I've got a lot of evidence,
which like I have with Quinton, for example, but we don't have to get into that.
The idea is that it's a couple of guys watching a YouTube video,
taking it all piece by piece very seriously and assessing like what we think.
We've covered, I think now like, I want to say about eight videos in total.
Not many, but we played them and we've concluded these are actually very good.
We usually watch videos that were either sent in like fans really wants to cover them.
And we cover ones that we think offer a lot in terms of a vehicle for conversation.
We usually are like, hey, if person feels they're misrepresented,
they can come on and talk about this with us, but they really respond well.
We've had several, we've had now, I think like eight people drop in live
when we're covering them and have a discussion with us on the video.
And then we promote their channel and it all works out really well,
but we can't expect that to happen every time and we do what we can sort of thing.
But we principally will not remove the idea of insults because I don't know that like,
we're going to be in a world where we just pamper everything.
But we're just like, I disagree with your argument.
Here's why next argument, you know, it's nice to have a bit of spice and entertainment.
But in, in the same way, if I cover a video that's covering me that says something like
more than fucking idiot, he has no idea what he's talking about.
I'd be like, all right, present your argument instead of being like,
I'm not going to watch this.
This is they're taking it too far.
I try to ignore the insult element.
If I'm going to try and maintain that people don't need to take insults that seriously.
If that makes sense, I guess.
But yeah, obviously, you know, when the strangers are insulting you and, you know, like,
maybe exaggerating the way that they're behaving for entertainment for their fans.
But like, that's the thing about YouTube.
Everyone has their own little area and their own way of existing.
And sometimes when they overlap, they kind of clash in that way.
And I think that's kind of what happened with that whole rags thing.
Right, because he responds.
That's his forte.
He responds to people.
That's always what he's done.
He was very in Star Wars.
He'd met me and then he saw your video, did disagree with it and decided to respond to it.
Yeah.
And all it did was start the conversation at like a toxic place, really, because it could have all
easily been avoided if like I could have because I didn't know about any of you guys only found out
about it because of people messaging me after that Last Jedi video.
And you're, of course, doing so.
Are you suggesting that if he like sent you a message, you might have been like, yeah,
I'll talk about it.
Yeah, absolutely.
Does that happen typically?
Well, yeah, yeah.
With other YouTubers, I've often talked about like films.
I even talked with, you know, the YouTuber, the act man, he's like a gaming channel.
We talked with him about the Last Jedi just really casually just, you know,
just talking about the movie like you do with just friends.
So I have no problem talking to other people about it, you know,
it's simple, but that's just what made it feel weird to me from the beginning was just like,
Oh, yes.
I mean, similarly, right?
If you would say to rags like send a message saying, I think your video was extremely unfair.
I'd like to discuss it with you.
He probably would have said yes.
And I actually did search for him on Twitter to see like, I'll say what the fuck off channel.
He was banned.
And I didn't really search for it further than that, because I didn't really know.
Well, I was just gonna say like, the best thing to do if they can't find Twitter,
this might even be the first thing is go to a YouTube is about page and just look
for their business email.
That would be the best way to contact him.
Well, the thing is, like, honestly, this is the aside from that, like, Derek Savage thing,
it's the only beef I've ever had with the other YouTuber of that size, at least.
So I don't know what I'm doing, like what you're supposed to do.
So I just thought ignore it.
Well, that's the thing, right?
So if you come out saying I fucking disagree with the shit ton of what rags are said,
and I think it's unfair that you didn't contact me before going through this video,
like, I, I thought that's the kind of etiquette that YouTubers could have with each other.
But I guess not, I probably wouldn't have disagreed with that.
I just be like, I mean, yeah, you can go as far as sort of like, we don't invite every
single person we cover on eFap.
I just don't know if it's it's feasible or reasonable.
Like, if we're interested.
So we see it as a sort of we are viewing YouTube casually as one does.
And we're like, look at this video that's available, this person made public.
So this person should be ready and waiting for someone to be like watching it and possibly
being critical of it, or celebrating it.
Like I said, we've praised and supported and promoted loads of different channels
as we watch these sort of things.
It's just we take them as they come.
Yeah, I don't know if it'd be worth to, when you know, you're going to be covering a video,
maybe, maybe like emailing them or trying to tweet them or something just once, just so
there's something, you know.
So people like if they really want to, and they feel like it's really unjust,
they have a chance before, you know, like it's all, you know, you can even have them
on the show or whatever, if they see it.
I mean, as much as I understand, like, so if someone said, let's just say, I know there's
not saying this would happen, but let's just say you, TRO and Quentin did a podcast.
We watched my rage on TLJ or whatever.
I'm responding to a live.
I wouldn't be upset that you hadn't told me.
I'd be interested to see it.
Right.
I get, I just don't, I just don't do this.
So, you know, I don't really start beef with people.
I try to keep it just out of the channel because I just think it's also like,
it just never ends well.
Everyone has a different idea of like what I guess the correct etiquette would be.
Yeah, exactly.
What do you like up to date feel about Rags of Video?
Um, well, obviously, like, well, here's the thing, right?
I'd like, after I've like spoken to you and all these people and read all the reviews
and everything, and like adjusted my opinions on it, like, I can't say it was because of
that video or, okay, any or anything because of that video, and perhaps talking to you
specifically was like a point where I started thinking about it in a different way, perhaps,
but I don't really like the video.
Obviously, like, I don't know how I could be expected to, like the whole point of the
video is to make me look like a moron.
Like, how could I, I mean, I can totally get why you would have that sort of reaction.
Rags is, his character is very confident.
And so he will often use like sort of responsive language that will
definitely make the person look like, like, where were they going with that point?
But, um, yeah, it was making me look like one of those, you know, like the normal stuffy covers,
which is like some pretty extreme stuff sometimes.
So it was like putting me in the same bucket as them.
Well, sure.
I don't know that he would say that.
I don't know if he thought that about your video.
Like we've, um, it may not be intentional, but I think it does read that way for some people.
Yeah, possibly.
So then Tiaro decided to make his video on rags timeline wise, I guess.
And I was featured quite heavily in it as well.
And Quentin was the guest to criticize both me and rags.
And obviously me and right, I'd seen a portion of it.
I believe I left a comment saying something like, Oh, hey, this is cool.
Let's get this discourse going.
Let's, let's talk this through.
I'll update the, like, I'll edit this comment as I'm watching it.
And I got incredibly disappointed immediately by a lot of the ways that, um,
they approached the arguments.
And I think I ended the comment with being like, I'm not watching anymore.
Like, this is, you've gone way too far with a lot of this.
Um, this is when, yeah, this is when I'm like, not part of the story anymore.
Like that, that video was made independently of me.
I knew it was being made, but I, I added no, um, like opinions to it.
Like it was totally their opinions.
Um, but before we get to like, we, any of the EFAP involvement you did, uh,
cause this is, this is, if I'm getting the timeline right, just correct me if I'm wrong,
but you left the comment on it that really pissed me off, right?
Yeah.
Because I'd never spoken about it publicly at all, like the whole rags thing up until then.
Um, and so that was like my point where I just vented, you know,
I just left a comment, just pissed about like everything that went down because of it,
you know, all the like bullshit that happened.
Um, and then you saw it and contacted me on Twitter.
And that's what started our first, uh, actual communication beyond just like third party
reports, you know, for clarification, you consider that common a mistake now, do you?
I do.
I think, um, you should be allowed to, you know, do your thing on this side of YouTube,
like an exist and like, I have no problem with what you're doing.
Like that's fine to me.
Okay.
And that was like the main thing I was saying in that comment and was just pissed off.
Like, I don't know what to tell you.
It's just emotional about it.
Yeah.
No, I understand.
Um, it was like, I, I haven't forgotten because like I said, I, I told you, like,
you're, you're one of the significant people along with several others that inspire me to
start my channel.
So, and like, I know that they're like suicide squad, I think is the video that I would cite
for you, but, um, you said something along the lines of like, if you think this video,
if you think this movie is good, like you have awful tastes.
And I remember being like, even I was like, fucking hell.
Yeah, that was, I actually regret saying that.
Right.
But, um, there are other instances where you'll say something like, yeah, there are other
instances where you'll say like, something is so poorly designed or constructed or created
in the movie sense.
You'll be like, this is just objectively fucked.
Like there's no, it doesn't matter what your perception actually is personally.
You're just, and the example I would have given to you when I cited suicide squad,
I think was just, they have subtitles.
You can't read because they're the color that matches the background.
They just fucked that up completely.
And that's the, that's the tip of the iceberg with something like suicide squad.
So, um, we got to clarify all of that.
And, um, again, like this, I'm not in any way trying to push you anywhere or entice you,
but it's just because we get these questions all the time.
Did you feel like it was something to apologize for or not?
What, sorry.
What, what, what, what, what's for the
the color that said I was a childish, condescending and, uh,
Oh yeah.
But you have to, you have to also understand, like I'd never like watched any of your videos.
I barely knew who you were.
And my entire perception of you was built around like just comments left by people that I've read.
Like, I mean, it was just, yeah.
So yeah, I don't, I don't mean what I said in that comment.
So yeah, I do apologize for, I apologize.
I apologize to you in person on that call actually about that comment.
That's, that's what I remember.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I appreciate that a lot.
Um, I, uh, so in that conversation, I think our first conversation was just about like
trying to be objective about reviewing something.
And then we moved on to just TLJ in general.
And, um, yeah.
And then we talked about Marvel for like hours.
Yeah.
I was going to say correct me if I'm wrong, but me and Wolf, like we did go try and go through
like all of the significant issues we had with the last Jedi, right?
Yeah.
Well, the call, the context of the call from my end, anyway, wasn't about, uh,
No, it just became about the last Jedi.
Like we were just, we were just chilling, just talking about whatever.
And of course that came up when we just started to naturally sort of way.
And you just went through, I assume what, um, like you've all covered before,
like just put like you have in your brain now.
So you can just whip it out whenever you want.
Yeah.
Like obviously it's been our, uh, our bread and butter, if you will.
Like we know the arguments back to front.
We know all the counters back to front.
Like it's just been something we've been doing for a while.
Yeah.
So, um, yeah, that obviously got me thinking.
And like you have a certain point, you like have to concede.
You can't, you know, you have to take the blow to your ego and accept the fact that like,
maybe I did read this wrong.
So then you've got to think about like,
so what was it that I was really liking about the movie?
And I think I've discovered that.
But, um, again, so do you remember when we were like,
is there any chance you could have anything publicly said about it?
And you essentially were just like, not, you don't really want to.
Yeah.
So, uh, this is the part that I found just, uh, a little bit off to me.
I'm not used to talking about this kind of like behind the scenes drama type stuff,
but I guess I have to just to, uh, I guess to offend myself in a way.
Yeah. Sure. Go for it.
Uh, but yeah, like, so I found out at the end of the recording,
right after we'd been, um, talking for all the, all those hours,
because it started late and it ended really fucking late.
What was it?
We must have started talking at like 2 a.m.
Yeah.
And finished at like 7 a.m.
It was ridiculously long.
Yeah.
It was obscenely long.
Um, but I found out at the end when, uh, we were tired that, um,
Wolf had been like secretly, um, like recording me for, for the duration of the discord call,
like without my knowledge, which I thought was, uh, kind of a slimy thing to do and like an
unprofessional thing. Um, even if it wasn't like spread around or anything, but, you know,
and his motivation was that, um, he wanted to show it to a friend.
Yeah. Just full context. I believe the conversation was supposed to be between
me and you. And then you asked if you could bring in, I think,
TRO. And then I told Wolf in a PM, I was like, I'm actually speaking to you directly right now.
Cause I was blown away and he was like, holy shit. And then I think I asked at one point,
is it okay if he comes in cause he's a friend of mine and I know that he'd want to meet you.
So he came in and then a friend of his at the time was told that he was talking to you,
but he obviously couldn't just bring anybody in. And so the person was like,
I don't believe you that sort of thing. And he was just like, Oh no, I am. And he did a, um,
I think like a private stream and just sent the guy the link and he was like, see there.
And then he just left it run. And now the contention comes in where let's say the conversation
went badly and like, we just didn't get on with each other and we thought that it was like not
even worth it. There's a good chance Wolf would have deleted it. The reason why he presented it
to us as something to release is because he thought that the conversation went really well
and it was like something fun for everybody to listen to. But obviously what I hadn't counted
on was the fact that me and you were just like, Oh, it was recorded. Like I remember being the
way I operate. Cause again, this is, I remember hearing it in your voice. You're a bit like, Oh,
and this is the thing like, I know that we're going to be slightly different on this, but like
me and Rags have talked about this publicly. I don't say anything that I don't expect to be
put online because of how the internet is. And secondly, if you're speaking to somebody who like
there's different conversations I've had with different people over the time who've
been like outwardly critical of all of me and my work will only agree to a private discussion.
And so, uh, I half the time will recommend like record yourself for safety in case something is
said or done that is not representative of what happened just to cover your own ass sort of thing.
However, the conversation we had, there was nothing controversial. It was just like, Oh,
this is the movie. This is what we thought of it. And you're like, okay. And you took a lot of
thoughts into mind and then it sort of ended. And I was actually like, like in the position
of being like, okay, because of the fact that he hadn't let us know, um, it's probably not good
etiquette wise to, to release it. And we don't really need to not usually important. You could
just, we can, you know, we can talk publicly about how, Hey, yeah, you know, mine might have
been changed, blah, blah, blah. But yeah, maybe not. However, it was, it was a principle thing.
That was it. But I just, I just thought it was really weird. And it made me feel quite strange,
you know, like, right, secretly recorded and be like, Oh, I didn't realise that was part of the
deal here. I'm like, it's the first time you've spoken. Yeah. I'm coming from the perspective of
knowing him really well. I know for a fact he didn't do it with any ill intent. The fact that
he hasn't released it, I think probably shows that at least to a degree because that it was supposed
to just fade into memory, right? But obviously, pushing the story. Yeah, I was never too concerned
because I was like, well, they say nothing. I'm like embarrassed of in there. Like we just talk
about the movie in a pretty nonchalant way. And like, I just concede like, which which I honestly
think would have been fine. But then it was the following week, I think, that you said on
sardonic cast that you hadn't heard any good arguments against TLJ. And we were made aware
of that. Then everyone was like, don't you have any like evidence that he said thingy? And the
wolf was like, well, yeah, actually, I had recorded it. And then I was like, let's, and I you can find
it the past year and a half. I have been definitive on not releasing it out of principle.
Because it's harsh. Yeah. Because I criticize people for doing it. Like people release
DMS that I've been in. And I'm like, you shouldn't do that. But okay. Yeah, it would be a scummy
thing to do. Yeah. And you know, hasn't released it either. But it was like frustrating to listen
to. And then we have to tell people, but that's not the conversation that was had. And then we
had loads of people being like, you get the mall was lying, right? Like he's doing it just to try
and like, bring down the credibility of IH everything. Right. Now it's for my my motivation
for saying that, which I do, like, I do not mean and regret like saying was, okay, it may seem
petty to those listening. But like, it was because of that call angle. I was like, wait, was this like
a trap or something was like, what the fuck? Is this like now this thing they have on me,
it felt really strange to me. I didn't enjoy that. So it's just like, okay, maybe I should just like,
not think about that for a while. So I just was like, okay, I'll just go back to how I felt before.
And then like, over the past, whoever long since that fucking film came out, it's just
just changed in my mind. And I had the why put it in my video today, like why my new thoughts on
the feeling of my, my new thoughts on the film. As a result, so I mean, and again, what else do
that's part of why we're having this conversation to sort of merge the two POVs. But and also
explain like why certain actions were taken, because on our end, we would just keep getting
sent snippets and clips and comments. And like, one of them was you and a friend of yours discussing
how like rags made a terrible video with no points. And we were like, why? Because I was
bitter about it. If I'm like, I'm a bit inebriated. I'm on my podcast with my mates. I'm just gonna
talk shit, you know, right? But you get what happens next, right? Like everyone shares it.
Yeah. Yeah. And obviously, I'm still because at this point, I was still always trying to find a
way to have a conversation with you. I was always like, let's clear the air. Let's get this done.
Let's get this over with. Get that bad blood out of here. And we nearly we nearly made something
of a plan, but then it never sort of aimed to fruition in any way. I was playing the dead at
the time, I think a while ago. Really? I remember killing a tank. It was epic. But you know,
that's this epic game of moments. It's not relevant. Yeah, that's the that's the annoying
thing about all this, like the conversation around our conversation is what toxic part is,
like, whenever we have discussed the film, it's been just like, so laid back and like,
relaxed. And we've just come to agreements and then, you know, fair about it. And sure.
But then the discussion is so fucking toxic about it. Like, it's a it's a world where everyone's
retorting and quipping. We were happy to let it die. Because we really would ever mention it. But
when we're getting sent this stuff, and like, when I saw that description in your video, I was just
like, Oh, for fuck's sake again. Well, yeah, because I'm still bitter about the rags video.
But it does stuff. I get it. I get it. Well, that's it. It's weird, because like, I just
I'm in my house by myself making these videos. And you don't you don't truly understand how your
video is read, you know, like, you're so biased towards your own video, you just have like,
no way to help to properly figure out how you're perceived. So like,
if I'm feeling angry in that moment, I might put some, you know,
snide thing in the description, just because it made me laugh at the time.
Obviously, I saw it. And as much as you were like, well, that was obviously a comment directed
at rags. That video, like, this is context, you may or may not be aware of, it's fine,
whether or not you are. But obviously, several months later, we kept getting messages about how
Tiaro's kind of destroyed rags and Quentin destroyed me. And we were just like, but they
didn't. And it was like, well, you know, you're not addressing it can't help but feel like maybe
you think you can't argue against it. And we're like, fine. And me and rags made a date we committed
to going through the entire thing. We had references. And again, I don't know if you
know this, but this is not only admittedly a fault by Tiaro, but Quentin as well.
In rags video, he says it's weird that Kylo doesn't use the force to save himself. And he's
getting strangled in the throne room, if you remember, like you could have I haven't seen
the film for a while. It's when Ray saves him by throwing the lightsaber to him. If you remember,
she says, Ben, and you like, like, yeah, and it's like, why wouldn't you just like force push the
person behind him or force choke the person? There's loads of different things you could do,
but he just presented. Oh, and that's something they did in this film was they use the force a
lot during fights. So I was like, Oh, okay, back on that, I guess. Like you remember this when
they're like, slashing each other, and then they would hold each other's lightsabers away with the
force. So it was kind of interesting, I guess. But that was rags point. And it was edited in
TRO's video that rags is complaining that Luke didn't use the force when fighting Kylo or vice
versa in on crate. And we thought that was really weird, because it was like, but he is using the
force. He's a force ghost person. I mean, I can't comment on any of this, because I didn't write.
Of course, all I'm doing is giving you some context. And there was another one as to what
keeps escalating that. Yeah. And so we were very unhappy with all of that. We got through it all.
We had TRO on, we presented it all to him. And he was like, Yeah, this isn't great. A few more
months down the line, he's unlisted the video now. I, as far as I know, it's still unlisted.
And Quentin publicly said that, yeah, sure, you made an editing mistake, but doesn't really matter
because the point still stands. And we're like, no, it doesn't. Quentin's not got a great reputation
when it comes to eFap. But the point is that saga ended. We'd addressed it, we moved on, but then
obviously, like, there's just those pieces left that just weren't made up. And I just always felt
like it was because I'd never got to speak to you specifically to sort of give context all of this
and receive yours and have everyone hear about it and then end it. Okay. Yeah. I mean, when we like
just lay down the timeline, it makes you question why any of this even happens. A lot of interesting
decisions. Like, TRO's video is possibly one of his worst. That's the interesting thing, because I'm
still subscribed to him. I check him out. Different topics he covers and the rags one, I don't know
what's going on. Like there's this portions where you'll have him commenting over rags speaking while
music is playing. He like his script is strange. The editing is like really choppy. They approach
different portions of rags video out of order instead of just like going chronological. It's
like we thought it was terrible, but we would still be maintaining that rags video isn't
all that bad at all. Like we thought that he addressed a lot of the things that you brought.
Maybe I'd be willing to admit that he doesn't give you the greatest benefit of the doubt, but
would you? Yeah, he doesn't at all. Would you concede at all that he made any good points or?
Well, I'm sure if the points he makes about the movies, I'm sure like on a lot of levels are
correct. I'm sure we'd have to go through each one and like, you know, debate each one. Never
fuck it. Well, no, it's not gonna fucking happen. So yeah, I mean, I like I can't be how can I be
objective about this video, you know? Well, yeah, I mean, that's that was never really like
my issue. It was just more about making sure everybody understood what has happened. But
yeah, but that's like, without that video, none of this happened. Well, sure. I mean,
without your video, none of this happened. Without you fab, a lot less. I wasn't calling
out individuals. No, sure. It's it's an all it's an avalanche that starts really as far as back as
Ryan Johnson deciding to take the job as directing to LJ. And the discussion has been crazy over this
past two years. And now rise of Skywalker is going to be or ain't slowing down. Well, yeah,
that's the thing. I actually think TLJ will probably outlast rise of Skywalker eventually,
because people want to talk about how either the Last Jedi was the last good Star Wars film,
or that it was the reason the rise Skywalker is bad. Like people like to because everybody hates
rise of Skywalker outside of movie Bob, from what I can see. I don't know why. Yeah, like all the
people who I've known to like TLJ did not like the rise of Skywalker. Yeah. And then all the
people who hated TLJ hate rises go to because it's, you know, it's just, I don't think that
there was going to be a third to this trilogy that was going to be great. It's going to be pretty
tough. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I had my theories about why the Last Jedi got the like critical reaction
it did. I don't know if they're based on anything solid really. But if I had to take a guess,
I think it would be based off the fact that Ryan Johnson has always been an indie darling,
which obviously film critics enjoy. And his take on the movie was like his indie take on it. Like
it was, it was him ignoring the saga, like as a whole and just making his own film based on
the chess pieces that were given to him. And that's the only like way I can justify enjoying
the film is like just basically it being like an Elseworld fan fiction, Star Wars movie. And
that's the same for all of these Disney films. Yeah, I kind of feel that way about Disney's
movies for Star Wars as a whole. They're just these crazy. Yeah. But taking like even like
that Last Jedi like revelation made me go back to the original movies and reassess them a bit. And
I thought A New Hope and Empire hold that very, very well. But I had some real issues with Return
of the Jedi. So like it was making me like reassess like where I was. Because you know,
when you first get into like Star Wars movies, if you're a little kid, like you just mindlessly
like all of it no matter what, you know. And like as you grow up, you gradually like your taste of
that. And I just never had to even think about it on that way before, you know. So like, it has to
start somewhere. And for you, it was when you're sat in the theater watching it. And there was
just something like a wrong feeling in your gut. I didn't have that wrong feeling. Not until like I
started. Yeah, I didn't have it with TFA. Right. But a lot of people did. Yeah, like it's it's not
uncommon to feel differently about a movie, you know, like a year later, five years later, like
opinions change, like we really said. And that's fine. So you're not not hugely into TLJ anymore.
I haven't watched it in a long time. Like it's not a film I want to rewatch, particularly right
now, because there's just so much that that is always like niggling in the back of your mind,
like bugging you. Yeah, I said in my newest video for every moment of brilliance, there's
an equal one of shittiness. I just I just I've tried doing the mental gymnastics, but I can't.
I just can't after a while. Yeah. I think that's the timeline in full, then.
Is there anything else to clarify? Is that it then? Is that like?
Oh, well, I think so. I don't know the because, you know, you've spoken to me now and this this
will be able to be heard by people. So there's no there's no comments available that can say you're
you're avoiding it or you're cowardly or you're not continuing with your position on TLJ. Like
you know, people will hear this and it should clear it all up. And I mean, you know, I'm more
than happy to work with you in any way, shape or form going forward in some some scenario.
But if not, if it ends up just being the last time we interact, that's that's okay as well.
Do you think part of it happened just because of like the extreme emotions around Star Wars?
Yeah, you get a lot of comments in so many different places. You start to lump them all
into this sort of one person. Yeah, I feel like if if only I presented the video in a clearer way
and might actually properly communicate my feelings, then people wouldn't have been annoyed
by it in the same way. It's just the fucking structure of it. What's happening now, right?
Is a lot of people who are like Rise of Skywalker is bad because of this reason who are people who
love TLJ and people like but but that same thing that like kind of errors in TLJ and then there
will be like, like different people can like different things for different reasons. It's like,
oh, yeah, but this is confusing. And obviously, like I've always known you to be very
like hyper specific with understanding and no cause and effect. And so I was really just blown
away by the fact like I remember people messaging me because it was around the time I released part
two of my TLJ critique that you're like I had everything really liked Last Jedi. I was like,
what really? Like how it's such a nonsense movie that I look at watching videos like, oh,
I'm confused. And it's fine. Because everyone can like whatever. It's just I didn't expect it. That's
all. Yeah, I, I just think the conversation is more complicated than just it's the worst film ever
made like type thing. Like, I like the the the like middle conversation that goes on about like,
because what what is good here? What is good Star Wars? And what is bad Star Wars about this?
Because I think that conversation is a lot more interesting than The Force Awakens,
because it is just a new hope. And it is a lot more interesting than what is the new one?
Rise of Skywalker. Yeah, I think that's what really intrigued me about the movie because it
was doing so much like creative, unique kind of Rian Johnson ideas, which I've like, I've always
enjoyed like his his type of movie and his journey I followed like since basically the
beginning with him. So I've been like a fan of his. All right. So from that perspective,
I was really intrigued by the movie and thought that conversation was worth having as opposed to
getting bogged down in certain minutia sometimes and like pinpointing what is actually like
valid and not valid. That was all I was trying to say.
And of course, that also comes down. Did you know that Rian Johnson is slang for Rian penis?
That's your opinion. It's pretty hilarious preferences you have.
Right. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, let's say you released a video and I had no I didn't would
never have expected that I could send you a message and you would actually be like, yeah,
I'll talk to you about it. Like a certain level of subs is reached. Yeah. And that's just like
just a reality, I guess, of just the perception of everything. So I don't blame you for assuming
that. But neither of us could have known either way. So cool. Which I guess leads us to the end.
We did it. Yeah, thank fuck. It's just been on the back of my mind for a while.
Yeah. And you know, especially because it's just so like, silly. Well, that was the thing for me,
because I was just like, pretty sure because a lot of people, because there were some people
who would be like, you guys, there was there was an accusation that we like, bullied you. And I
was like, I felt like conversation was friendly in the one we had with you guys. You guys,
you admit you've got a reputation that precedes you as a group? Well, I'm referring not to like
if ever anything, but just because this was before you even knew who we were.
Yeah, but that's what I mean. Like that, that reputation is what I built my initial thoughts
that led to that comment that I apologize to you for. No, I mean, oh, well, there's this whole
communication problem going on. Yeah, I just like, you know, again, like I get how it happened,
but I try to avoid that myself as in like, say, for example, when someone gets accused of, you know,
like pro Jared, for example, like, can you believe he did X, Y, and Z, I'd be like, I haven't looked
into it. I'm not gonna say anything, because I think I remember there's an eFap where I was just
like, if that's true, that's awful. I don't know. I haven't. I don't know. Yeah, and I probably
would have been more rational about it if, if, you know, not for the rags video, which had just
harbored, you know, some anger about I can assure you that rags is extremely good friend of mine,
very friendly. And that this this whole thing has obviously done the same sort of thing in reverse.
He's he's not gotten a great impression either. And it's just that I would agree it's a matter
of communication falling apart. Yeah, it's people from different sides of the planet with different
audiences like just the in another life never would have even like met or in any form. Yeah,
just like happening to clash because of the string of events known as the Last Jedi.
Yeah, Ryan's had quite the ripple effect. Very proud of it. Well, yeah.
That's, that's most of what I'd say, to be honest. Okay, that's most of it covered.
No, I'm happy with that. I just wanted. Yeah.
Are people normally, does it normally go like this? Or is it?
I don't know. People are often surprised at how I act in conversation versus like one of my rage
videos, because obviously, I'm in a very assertive and straightforward in those. But I've always felt
that that personality comes through on any eFap stream. So if someone sees me responding to the
video, I don't get really get the impression because like with the whole Jenny Nicholson thing
that happened recently, like we were considered sexist trolls who like constantly rip into people
with no with no quarter, and then you can get several sections of the video where we're like,
all right, the idea that it's a flaw in the film, the Joker would be punished for losing the sign
because it was a going out of sale sign. And the going out of sale business wouldn't need or care
about the going out of sale sign. We were like, that sounds like the opposite. Like wouldn't he
absolutely need it? Especially if he was going out of sale, it could be bankruptcy, like, and who knows
how long he's going out of sale for? We were like, that's a strange thing to say is a flaw. You take
that sound bite. You're like, look at those sexist, crazy ass. Like, oh, come on. Like, and it's not to
say that we don't have any comment that you can't isolate and be like, look how assholey they are.
It's like, okay, sure. But that's, you know, we ran it for like three hours talking about her video
specifically. We addressed so many of her comments in a, in what I would call a calm and civil manner.
And we try to do it with everybody, but we also try to have a bit of fun. And I just, um, there is,
as much as there's a huge fan base for refab, there's also a huge, um, let's say opposite
fan base anti fan base. There's a lot of people who will be like, you know, the memes like,
Oh, careful saying some of them all that he'll make a 12 hour video on you. It's like, I don't
think that's how that works, but all right. Yeah. I feel like that's just a thing on YouTube is that
your reputation and your name does precede you. And I don't know how much control you have over
it. I think it depends on who you are and like the stuff you're putting out. Yeah. Cause I obviously
like with a name like mine, like people instantly form a certain expectation, you know, I understand
it more than anyone. However, let's say like, you know, theoretical man said, I hate, I hate
everything's channel because he never talked about anything he actually likes. And then
you come to this guy and you're like, but I do. And you give him examples. And then he goes,
okay, fine. I do. I'd expect that guy to be like, well, then you did make a mistake, right? To that
guy. And if that guy was like, Nope, I'd be like, Oh, you're kind of an asshole. See? Yeah. I've
never really gone that far. Like I just like putting it out there and just leaving it. Like
I'm not about like sitting in the comments arguing for hours. Like, I just like using it
as a place to vent and just like, just putting out my hot takes, be them shit or not, you know,
well, I try not to take it so seriously because like, I like, I like YouTube to me. And the reason
I like it is because I remember when it like first came up and it was just like these people
making videos, there was no way to make money on it. It's just all about just like expressing
yourself in some form. So I've just liked that idea. And I hate all the drama shit. And I hate
the way everyone creates these like armies that they send after each other. And it just becomes
this fucking male stream of bullshit. If we if you rewind to that point, like I was just starting
out. And then I found out that like, you know, two relatively sizable channels had worked together
to discredit my like method of analyzing stuff in an attempt to defend someone with an enormous
channel. I was like, Jesus, this is gonna deal some damage if I don't address it. It's it's a rabbit
hole. It's a fucking rabbit hole. It never ends. I just mean that I've got an investment in like
protecting myself while I don't know, I don't know what your situation is. But I imagine you've
been established for so long now that you don't need to necessarily consider yourself with one
video destroying your career or anything. I suppose. I mean, maybe I don't think about it
enough. I don't know. Yeah, well, that's why that was the first point in my lifetime on YouTube that
my videos were actually getting any traction. And I was like, Oh, and Quentin reviews a guy who,
I think he had like 250,000 subs at that point. I was like, he's coming after me. It's like, okay,
I actually knew him before that I had no idea that he would fucking hate me so much. Well,
here we go. Yeah, it there was a period where like commentary on other channels was like the
be all end all. But I dabbled in it for a bit. And I honestly regret a lot of the videos I made
during that time, where I was like targeting people and stuff and talking about specific
people. I tried to avoid doing that now unless it is some like, you know, like a director or
someone who is removed from it all. Because it does become very personal on YouTube. For some
reason, there is a more personal strike to it than someone in some business you have no attachment
to. And they'll never see, you know. Yeah, no, I understand. I really think that this will
help out. I don't know, it's trying to smooth over and help everyone understand exactly what
actually went over these past two years. And yeah, God, it's been two years. Yeah.
And time travels. That is crazy. Yeah, it's fucked up. I don't like hearing that.
Yeah. Is there anything else or join us? Should we stop it there?
I think that pretty much covers it, to be honest. Like I'm happy with that.
All right. People, you know, make up their own opinions and all that.
You know, there's no like I'm I'm over it at this point. I think that's clear.
I don't really have the same. There's some salt still there being, you know, in the wound from
that original video, just because I just wish it didn't happen purely. So all of this didn't happen.
But I mean, aside from that, like I'm not really someone who holds like grudges on people.
Yeah, it's the first time I've ever had to deal with something like this. And like,
you know, it's like a learning experience. I think the goal is just motivations and
actions explained. And I think we've we've both provided context for everything that happened now.
Yeah, I'm with you. Someone out there got something from this.
Yes. Is it all right if this theory like would this be okay for me to play on a fat, for example?
Absolutely. You can do what you want with it. I don't care. All right. There we go.
All righty. Tada. Tada. There it is. Wow. You know, when you don't label and dismiss,
everything just seems to work out pretty well. I was waiting for when you're like,
is it okay for plants to need fat? No, that would be great.
And yes, since since this discussion, as far as I know, there's there's been no sniping of any kind.
And like I said in the video, the point of it was to try and get it out exactly what everybody's
POV was throughout that wonderful two year adventure. And I would want people to remember
the most offending party out of Quentin Trowe. And I hate everything was easily Quentin. And we'll
never get him to like fucking own all the shit that he's done and said, because he's he's just
too far gone. But fucking dirtbag. But I hate everything was obviously you could tell he's very,
very much emotionally driven throughout all of it. And to try and understand the perspective of
someone who just doesn't know what to do when he said no one as big as Rags had responded to him
before, which I didn't realize I figured that would have happened at some point. So he just
he just didn't know how to respond to it. And I really like can't understate that he did he
apologized for the for the shit that really pissed me off. And like, I appreciate that a lot.
Um, and the you know, as far as the record goes, Rags this video is fine. There's nothing that we've
not had to deal with anything of it that we haven't sorted out as far as I'm I know. Which
pretty much sorts it out like the you could tell like the only thing that I just wanted to get rid
of was the stupid Snipes. And it looked like the Snipes are coming from a place where he just looked
back on the whole thing as him getting fucked over. Like I saw people in chat discussing the
the wolf recording thing. And one thing someone said that I found interesting was,
I like how you think it's like justified to say you won't release it and yet you'll keep it as if
it's like a Damocles thing over his head. And I deliberately said what I said in the video,
which is that to a degree, you need to protect yourself online. Especially when dealing with
someone and you might be like, Oh, can you even come up with a scenario? And it's like, yes,
the one we just had where me and Wolf claim a conversation took place. I hate everything
operates as if it didn't. He never claimed that it didn't. If he had made a public declaration,
the wolf and I had never spoken to him. That's when I'd be like, well, I'm afraid you're lying.
And this release is going to be proven wrong now. And that's usually the time where releasing DMs
is considered like moral plus rather than moral negative because you're proving something true
when when people are publicly saying it's a lie, even though they knew going in that if you're
going to say something privately didn't happen when you've got the information, which is what he had,
Wolf told him first, which I still think was the ethically best choice. And Wolf wanted to release
it because it was like a good civil fun conversation. He didn't want to release it to prove to the will
that I hate everything is a piece of shit or something like that. He was very happy about it.
And when I had everything was like, No, don't. He was like, Okay, I won't. And I was fine with
that, too. I was like, Yeah, it's a bit weird to have not told anyone it was happening and then
release it afterward. It's just weird. Like, it's just so we'll just leave it. Then the thing
happened on the side on the cast. And he said that it was because he felt bitter about it to
the point where he just didn't want to think about any of the arguments he had heard and sort of
pretend it didn't happen. And that he and he said he even said when he was setting that part up,
that people aren't going to like to hear it from him. But I appreciate that he said it. It's like
not fun to admit that you can do or say certain things because you're emotionally charged in the
moment. But he seems to recognize that a lot of mistakes were made along the way. And this is all
good stuff. The real treasure is the mistakes you made along the way. What are your thoughts rags
on all this? Oh, I, I haven't even really. I mean, I just hadn't really thought about this
much at all. So it's just not even I mean, I'm glad at least he's sort of walking a bunch of it
back. I would still say that you just need to kind of grow up a bit if this is what you're doing.
The whole point of like being an adult and all this stuff is that you don't make these
emotionally charged kind of arguments or posts and stuff like that. Yeah, like it's something
you have to watch out for. Like if if just someone tells me that X creator said or did Y like the
usual thing we do on EPAP is like, really? Did this thing happen before like judging it? Um,
he's going to be careful. Like even if it was fucking Jay just put out a tweet saying that
Mola's whole channel is bullshit. And then I'd be like, did you though? Is it a joke? And all you
gotta get all these clarifications first before you can choose a response. And the unfortunate
part I heard everything story is that he says like people had told him stuff about my channel.
We all know who who is among those people. And it's unfortunate that it was me. Yes, it was metal.
And it's unfortunately took it as like, I suppose it must be something along the lines of like,
if I told rags that new creator called Bimzel dork was making videos solely about rags,
all of them were. And they're all titled how rags an idiot rags don't know anything. And that the
world's like soil is actually like alien semen. And that that's, that's, that's how we supposed
to look at it and stuff like that. All these different videos. I think rags will believe me.
Right. Right. It just checks out. Yeah, right. Rags would be like, yeah, that's probably like,
why would I lie to you? And I think that's probably what happened to I hit everything.
He trusted a lot of the people that would have told him about what I do. And what we do, man.
I mean, I honestly think rags would ask, Oh, can I see? Oh, of course. No. So rags would like,
believe me. And then you'll be like, can I see it for myself too? Because that's gonna be fucking
hilarious. Yeah, but they don't even take that step. They'll just be all like, they just believe
immediately. Well, I guess I'll just make a tweet about this. Well, that's the thing, though. I know
I've told rags about tweets that I don't show him. Look, when you're hearing it from someone you
trust, you don't feel that you need to check to verify it. But you might want to look anyway.
Like, if you trust the person, you don't need to verify it. That's like, yeah, you're not sitting
there going, Oh, I don't know. And then blims will talk fucking tweets out. What the hell did you
tell? We've been telling like, what the fuck rags you piece of shit, like what we've been saying
about my channel. And then you're you're like, well, isn't it the thing that Mola told me it was?
And then you don't you keep my name out. You're like, people have just told me that you do this
stuff. And then it turns out he just does my little pony reviews. And everyone's like, why did you?
And then you talk to me about it. And I'm just like, Yeah, well, his reviews are fucking shit.
Sorry. Like, at one point, you mentioned someone like you, I think. I don't know. I might have been
mistaken. Maybe it was a different channel. You'd be like, What the hell, dude? But at the same time,
you'd have to be like, Yeah, obviously, I retract what I said about the channel. I got it wrong. I
messed up. So I guess all I'm trying to say is it can happen. Though, I can't help but feel if I
was in I hate everything's position, I would have gone to find out. I've been curious. Then again,
we just highlighted how much of like there was the devious editing on behalf of Quentin. And if
I had everything watched Quentin's portions about me and rags, of course, you'd be led a certain
way, right? Like, it's complicated. But I'm glad we're on what I think is good terms.
Yeah, seems like it. You've gone the extra mile. I actually that is not many can say apparently.
That is not many can say.
And also, like, the video we covered today was because someone just heard something about us.
That's total bullshit. I mean, they clearly checked.
Yeah. Well, like I said, he's got the escape pod, if you will, of I wasn't saying it was you,
I would say I was saying it was a general position people have. It's like, okay.
But then he explicitly showed a default. Yeah. But if I show a picture of Jay,
and then I say some people have this position, it's like, so you think Jay does and be like,
No, no. This picture is unrelated to my comments. I mean, yeah, it's like a meme in video. You'll
say there are some shit films out there. You got a clip of TLJ. You're like, clip is totally
unrelated, I swear. Speaking of, there's something kind of relevant here to everything that was just
said in that conversation. And to Sardonica subreddit, they posted the they've posted the
two videos that are about Ralph. And there are already people going 11 hours of content
just about his video, or even though the second one literally has super chats in the title.
And in the thumbnail, we got so much money covering you.
Any valid any valid points these guys have is lost amidst the pretentiousness. The thing I like,
how are we pretentious? I don't know. With everything is so Bob with a barrel with us
a lot of the time with like jokes and in house shit to feel like pretentious.
We are the we are the opposite. We Google words a lot like what that would mean. Oh, good.
The thing I like about the sardonic ass lads is that they always seem. Oh, wow. The thing I like
about the sardonic ass lads is that they always seem like they're regular people who are well
informed about films. Their opinions might differ from mine, but they're always backed up by at least
some validation without coming across as elitist. Moeller and those other guys are like the annoying
dude table in high school, where everyone says the same thing in their little circle echo chain.
I mean, like the people who say we're an echo chamber, he found like, dude, I wish sometimes.
It's an echo chamber is the reply to it that got down voted to shit. That's like,
it's not an echo chamber. They often have people who disagree with them on.
Well, that's down vote. It's a lie. That's illegal. That's what an elitist would say.
Here's that comment.
Those guys are fucking cringe, dear lord. How embarrassing.
Why spend a total of 12 hours trashing Ralph over this?
Here we go again. Check the time stamp and call it a day.
I was going to say, can I get another super super cut? I guess. Fuck these guys are the worst.
Oh, apparently they can't believe that I managed to sound so incredibly condescending and unpleasant
in every sentence I utter. Oh, good job. I mean, I was going to say, I mean, come on,
like that's that's pretty all right. Imagine sounding unpleasant and condescending.
It's funny to see this after we had YMS on relatively recently.
We've just played a conversation with I hate everything yelling along with with with me.
And it's like, yeah, we criticized Ralph. We did.
Uh, we had a lot of it. We take a lot of issues with his Joker criticisms. In fact,
he got a lot of things wrong. When you say criticize, that's coded language should be racist,
right? Yes. Absolutely. Unlike.
Let's just say if Ralph tweet at me being like, we cool, bro, I'd be like, yeah,
gonna come on. And if he was like, fucking how could you say that? I have to cover my video.
I'd be like, because because we separate art from the artist.
Yeah.
Um, so this is interesting. They want to hate on someone they dislike,
like, even if their points make sense.
Wait, say that again. Even if despite the fact, they still wanted to indict the defendant
despite all of the evidence confirming their opinion.
Trying to show it on the stream. Such a bizarrely written point.
I don't wasn't the point that Ralph's points make sense.
They want to hate on someone they dislike, like, I think this was to be a calmer after
dislike. So they want to hate on someone they dislike, like, even if their points make sense.
Imagine thinking Ralph's points make sense.
I love that he says that in the street and you're stupid. He says this. I know, right? Like,
oh, come on guys. But, um, they make that point. So the point I think they were trying to make was
that even if someone makes good points, if we hate them, we won't agree. He does that in the
stream that I like publicly announced. I'm, I'm actually defending Jack Saint against movie
Bob because he's right. I'm not a big fan of Jack Saint, putting it out there.
I don't know if you guys knew pretentious way. Oh, pretentious, like with a pretentious sort of,
you know, like a quick call Patrick.
Well, now I got to prepare a whole bout of memes video. He makes like seven times more
memes. I'm going to get some memes ready. We'll do some memories. And then, uh, after that little
group of mayonnaise. Oh, by the way, you got, you know, I was saying I lost mayonnaise. I found it.
It was in my fridge. It was just behind the, it was behind the juice.
I don't even want to contact for that one. I lost mayonnaise.
Well, I just, I just stop right there. Stop. The doctor said the thing that paints the bad
picture is the surface level of how you present yourself and your fan base and the tone of your
voice. Yeah. Have a nicer tone, bitch. I don't really know what to do with that. Yeah. I was just
like, okay. Yeah. Just use good delve man at all times. And to me it's a good thing. It's like,
it's not about your arguments or just what you do. It's about how you speak of like, all right.
It's literally just like, Oh, I hate you and I want to rationalize it. It's the way you,
it's the fact that you like soup, you fucking piece of shit. Of course you'd like soup.
Have you seen that? Someone thinks that they do become offensive.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, and it works both ways, right? Like I think it's not 500 days a summer. Um,
they do that. Who, who here has seen that movie? Which one? 500 days a summer. It's a,
it's a romance movie. I suppose you could call it that. Oh, is that the one where she's got the
bad memory? No, that's the Adam Sandler one, isn't it? Yeah.
That's like 51st dates. Yeah. All right. Never thought that would come up on you,
but all right. Uh, so when he's in love with it, all these little things that happen,
he like references them as all the little things he loves about it. But then when he like hates it,
like all the most annoying things about it. And it's like kind of the same deal where,
I don't know. Cute tins to infuriating. Um,
I suppose should we, should we, should we ask the rest of people then, right?
Jay, what did you think of that conversation asshole? Uh, it was really fun. Like I think
a lot of people who don't like Efap just generally should list. It puts a lot of stuff in perspective
and it's only an hour. No, it's not even a long man. Too long. Too long. What did you think?
Well, it's just like, oh my, oh Jesus. Uh, what have you done? Um, so yeah, I mean, like, this is,
this is exactly what we hope to see on this show. Everybody likes to paint us as, you know,
alt-right Nazi and sell man babies in our echo chamber, but you just listen to this and that's
really all you need to do. It does not take long. You could timestamp this shit and see how it goes,
but it's just, it's really annoying how people will just refuse to do that because they're just
afraid. Anybody who you budge even the slightest bit for these people and your friends are going
to destroy you for it. So they'll, they're just not going to do it. And that's frustrating.
Oh yeah. And to clarify, so that is a video on its own. I'm going to put that out, uh,
I suppose soon after I put this one out, uh, this video on moolah so that it's going to be,
yeah. So, you know, people can watch it separately without us
watching it. Cause that could be weird. I suppose. Um, I mean, they, they, they won't watch it, but
well, you know, at least, uh, the fab fans can have something to reference when they're like,
moolah's never been nice to anybody. It's like, there's a whole video right here of him being a
nice man. No, he just did it because he hates women. That could happen. They could be like the,
the only reason he was nice to him was because he was trying to trick people into thinking he's a
nice man. Also, he was nice to him only cause he was a man happens with Jenny Nichols.
I mean, it won't be long before I call it like, which community even likes EFAP that isn't the
EFAP community? Cause like Reddit fucking despise EFAP as a like general sort of sentiment. Uh,
the sardonic ass community apparently don't like us. Got 4chan. I've seen a lot of, uh,
people linking me stuff that's like fucking out there. I, I sent some to, to rags and some of
those fucking comments. I was like, whoa, like the one comment, it just goes from slow, slow,
just goes worse and worse. It abbed up, let's say. Uh, but obviously the best you'll get is like,
I don't know. Sometimes it's entertaining. You're like, well,
wait, it's the thing is that it's so inaccessible. It's like, oh, I fucking hate EFAP. All they do
is this. It was like, well, they don't do that. Do you want to check? Yeah. I mean, it's like,
no, it's like, you know, now, now, do you want to check? It's gonna take like three days. I'm
good. I'm, I'm surprised I haven't been mentioned by name yet by any of those people. I'm very
present in this form. You're probably, you're probably the German guy right now. You'll get
there. Yeah. Let's see. It's boring. I've been the German guy for five years. I know.
Only five. Were you before you were German? Yes.
God, there's so many Alfred beam. Is that supposed to be all right. I'm going to do this selection
in coming memes. And then we're going to talk about, which won't take very long. The, um,
the Colin Trevorrow script. And then we'll take the quiz and then memes, the Colin Trevorrow
script for episode nine. It's like a summary. We can just go through what apparently happens in
the main way. Oh my God. I edited more while we were listening to that video just now.
You have been editing. Oh wait. Yeah. That was kind of mean. I didn't ask you what you think.
What did you think now? No, it was fine. It was very civil. Just a nice conversation. Nothing,
nothing surprising to me, to be honest, that it went that way.
Shut up. I heard a noise. What?
Well, not surprising. It was so civil. To be honest. I mean, this thing, we've had like three
conversations in total and they always go that way. And that's why I'm like, woohoo, we're on
good terms. And then it's like, lol, you suck. I'm like, why, why? Yeah. And then it's like,
it's directed at Rags. It's like, but Rags didn't do anything to you. This is like, yeah, well,
you made a video before, so. Uh, first meme. I think I might've shown this one before. I don't
even care. Pronoun past tense conjunction of to be never really there here. Cause like I couldn't
fucking remember the day with the movie over and over again. I liked it. We better wait. I watched
it. Why did you like it? You racist. Is it because there was a man? Yes. And he beat up people with a
hammer. Women. It did not. I think I love movies of men beating up women. I like that they've put
Joker in this guy's hand. Identifying. Look at the way they spell Ralph to
one word. Do you guys ever get the thing where discord chat doesn't let you scroll up?
Yeah. It kicks me back to the bottom. When it kicks you, it's really fucking annoying.
Look at the new things. And why the fuck did they decide to make a pop-up of those reactions?
Every time you mouse over something, somebody said, that's really annoying.
I'm 50 50 on that change. I'm not sure if I like it yet.
So if you scroll over, if you like mouse over what somebody says, you'll notice this little
reaction window pop up over the top along the right side. I wouldn't mind it. I wouldn't mind
it, but my second reaction. Yeah. On the far right. I wouldn't mind it. The second
reaction it suggests to me is a nose. Wait, talking about in discord.
You mean the penis about a muscle mouse over like going to any server and just
mouse over anything you said and you'll see the little reaction. Wait,
don't pop up along the right side. Rags just posted his. That's not the one that I've got.
I'm not sure if it was a bad one. Like, look at, look at the shit recommended, uh, emotes.
I can use it. Ignore my notifications. I know a little yes and Kappa. Why, why do I need the
nose emoji there? Because you used it. You said it to be subled before. I can't remember who.
Yeah. But I only sent it to you because it was suggested your notifications actually hurt me.
I know. Don't, don't mention that you should. Oh my God. What? I get a lot of messages.
Dude, clean up after yourself. Yeah. Like I said, there's a bunch of Alfred beeps.
Alfred's out. Nothing brings a family together like Alfred.
Ralph eternal. Naturally. He doesn't like violence. So this is going to be tough for him.
That's true.
So assuming this is Ralph.
You keep asking me who is Alfred, not where he's out.
I would prefer not how is Alfred, but still what is Alfred? Why is that?
Oh, look, I mean, you want, but Jay will get more so than most.
Probably a doctor who referenced that. Yes.
Shut up. That's not just because it's the thing I've seen.
To some guitar. Oh my God. What is this? I think.
What if you just put the text on a random image? All right.
I got it. I got a little bit catch up idea. Excuse me. What the fuck was that?
Like I was just all from a small and catch up. All right. We had that and oh yeah,
that's not on mine. I guess that's a new thing. This is supposed to be Mooper.
Oh, hey, that's my, my sexy golden body, but it's your head on it. Oh my God.
Then we have Ralph. Machine gun reactions with rag Alfred's out.
He looks upset, but that's just I guess him. He sounded upset when we covered him.
He sounded fucking ass mad. I hear no man, but that thing.
But the violin tells you how to feel. I see people keep asking me who is Alfred,
not where is Alfred. I don't actually understand that one.
Good. Is this supposed to be?
Oh my God. Is that a Doctor Who episode, man? It is.
Oh, what? Tell me about him. He's a suntaran. That's it.
What does that mean? He's really fat.
From a race like warrior race or something. Yeah.
If you hit them in the back of their head, they die.
No, they don't die. Just stuns them.
Okay. It's stupid either way.
It's like a person's balls.
That's so put something over it.
So yeah, that's the thing. It's like put something over it.
And it's like if they're a warrior race, how do they survive?
They can't put something over it.
We just like that on the back on their back.
They use guns. They they're arranged race. What?
What is so still none of that.
You can't shoot none of that addressed what I said.
Shoot them. They die anyway.
You shoot them. They die anyway.
Therefore, don't cover the part of your body that fucking knocks you out.
If people touch it, they breathe.
No, you don't they don't have to cover it.
They don't. They don't have to put bags all over their heads.
I love the idea that I'm like, put a gas mask helmet on a.
Jay is like, you need to breathe, though.
But if they have to breathe through that,
how's that race even survived evolution at this point?
It was genetically engineered.
Oh, that makes it even with a weakness.
They were genetically engineered to be stunned when you hit them in the head.
I it's not it's not super significant.
Like, OK, OK, and a war and a war.
What is that significant to me?
Like, sense if you don't think about it.
And all of these range combat.
Oh, my God.
It's like people have balls.
This is supposed to be all for.
Yeah, well, some of those balls, you're not a person.
That's true.
Oh, you got balls or just a hole.
That's not that's not Alfred.
That's Jeffrey Epstein.
No, that's Alfred.
He was murdered by Alfred.
Alfred is dead.
No, Alfred.
God damn it.
Alfred Epstein.
This guy's supposed to be Epstein.
Stupid superhero movie.
Stupid superhero movie.
Is it in relate relation to like how Ralph was sort of ripping apart genre to to
significant I don't find out some of these memes are just too high level for creatures.
Like, yeah, maybe it's commentary on new Marvel movies are all the same.
There is another there is another.
Oh, look, a J related to that.
There is another there is another.
Oh, look at a J related meme.
J, you'll know this.
Wow.
Oh, God.
That's a quote from the show as well, isn't it?
You're the doctor who expert.
You would know this because you're the doctor who.
I can reduce my it's definitely a familiar line to me.
Oh, yeah, I found it.
Yay.
Hang on.
Oh, well, that's not true.
It's going to say it's so good.
How what have you done?
Whoa, we'll put it in the wash together.
I don't want someone made a gamble with that.
That meme and it did not pay off.
Maybe they've called the death.
It'll still be accurate if it dies across this year.
I like the tombstone builder dot com.
Yes, that's the thing.
I don't like your video and joke very much.
Have a very bad take bad take.
They've all got violence.
Oh, this is fucking my Christmas memes.
What's this?
What's this?
This Alfred's everywhere.
Someone thought of this in their head and brought it to life.
So it'll be Jack Skellington.
But he'll be looking at Christmas lights.
They're all Michael Payne's.
Oh, my God.
Ralph me.
I think it was in the Ralph section.
Recognize some of those.
Actually, I saw them while they were posted and leave that memes.
A movie.
I want people to see this without content.
Billboard bag face awarded.
Jeb, the Battle of Massivity year, the 300th Tism colorized.
Yeah, Jeb took Iowa.
Can't wait to see if he gets.
What's the next one?
Is it North something North?
North Iowa.
North Iowa.
Yeah, Jeb got 100% of the votes and he wasn't even running.
It's amazing.
He's Sophie.
This meme going around.
Lots of people are doing it.
Yeah, I've seen it.
I liked it.
It's good.
I tend to one makes a lot of sense.
At least they said Tinder, not Grindr.
I'm okay with both.
It's fine.
This is what I thought was happening.
Oh, so it's a guy, I guess, who's a fan of the show.
He's saying like, I'm drinking with them.
It's all great.
What's really happening?
That was a wild ass ride.
I was going to say like, say what you will.
Community.
But that Ralph Street was good.
Shit.
Yeah, it was good.
Rat.
You can remember some of it.
He's going with the violin.
Some of these Shutterstock images are dark.
Just because Bruce bad is not a poster in Peter Potter's class does not mean Spider-Man is a part
of a big universe.
Gary is the penguin because he's short.
The point here is the box said the will building is terrible because it's just
small references and he's saying the will building is getting in the way
because stuff like that is going to happen when Gary becomes the penguin.
Dude, that's that box video is such a blast from the past.
It's crazy.
They actually argue that the X-Men continuity is stronger than the MCU.
The X-Men continuity is fucking.
Well, and that was before Captain Marvel came out.
Yeah.
This guy's supposed to be a friendly dude.
If you drew that, did he draw?
No, it's like Waldo, but.
Yeah, he looks like a Waldo character.
Even the lettering is supposed to be like, where's Waldo?
I like how everyone knows about where is Waldo.
Nobody could find him, but we all do him.
I am taking Jay and his friends.
You can either profit from this or be destroyed.
It's your choice, but I warn you not to underestimate my objectivity.
What?
I'll never forgive the troglodytes who stole the future and earned to prolong your worthless.
Look at everyone's face.
I love the way they've both movie.
Dude, how bigger.
Imagine how big his shades would have to be like custom made.
Beep.
Well, shit.
Oh, they dropped me down to tax and rancor.
That's transphobic.
I doubt the rancor was trans, but I suppose you could.
You can look into it.
Did you ask it?
It's transphobic because the rancor isn't trans.
Oh, right.
I see how it works.
When I came to Europe to fight, I just wanted to kill those six year old kids who would have
known war was so.
What was so boring?
Ralph sappe.
Finding private Alfred.
Rhino milk, drunk dog, long man directed by Satan.
Oh, this is particularly.
Also, everyone is on the meme except me.
Good.
They couldn't remember your name.
He's legitimate.
Sleeping women.
Oh, if you're the German one, I think I know who you play in this movie.
Yeah, we got tissues for Anna Koshuizil and beers for rags.
Two, of course.
Oh, you get to look at sleeping women.
And we've even got the drunk raggles.
Oh, my God.
I love Pikachu's art.
Very adorable.
You know, instantly.
It makes me want to go.
It makes me want to see like the animated universe by Pikachu.
Oh, yeah.
No pressure.
No pressure.
Make a whole TV show.
Three seasons.
The third one wasn't as good.
Like it's solid.
It's not as good.
This fucking meme drawing is so goddamn good.
I love that so much.
I like how I almost have that ball of stress.
I was like, oh, yeah, my eyes.
You got your doggy ball bug thing.
Let's put something in here in between.
You kind of look like a Todd from Bojack Horseman.
Yay.
Oh, yeah.
I can put that one on as well.
Hang on.
So what's up with these these very, very unique headphones that you have?
They were just the headphones I wore when I first made that.
Yeah, I believe so.
What happened was that like a brand or something.
It's just some they're actually pretty cheap.
Like they're from Sates.
Sadas.
Sates Breeze from Sates Breeze Pokemon game.
No, they're just they were just whites and had like a blue interior white.
They help distinguish his character.
The German has white earphones.
Actually, he has the same ones at his place now.
Yeah, I've got them specifically for when he comes over so he can use them.
What a friend.
Because the microphone is really good and it's only like a 30 euro headset.
Yeah, we recorded Batwoman's episodes.
Was it four and five while you were over, I think.
I think so, yes.
And that was dumb.
And they're like, this is a Batwoman.
And they're just really good headphones.
And they're really, really, really cheap.
Yeah, awesome image.
And I like how Pikachu did their best sort of make you look happy while crying.
You're like happy tears.
Happy crying is a thing.
No, I know.
It's just that his his heart, all of his icons are like he's in tragic cry mode.
So yeah, everything is terrible.
You need to battle happy.
I was like, no, I don't.
Also with with that previous one, people highlighted like fucking Jay's hand
in the in the black and white one.
The kid and Jay's expression is great as well.
It's very, very well stylized.
I love it.
I don't introduce our guest on tonight's eFap.
Satan.
This guy's supposed to be out.
I love that little gas bag.
Also, look at look at battle in the top picture.
Yeah, that's tickles it again, because look at Jay's drawn.
This was the guy who did the other comic.
Accurating like melted onto the fucking table.
I was like, tickles his name really matches his art style.
Well, it tickles me.
That is why it's called that.
It touches me.
You.
Oh, my goodness.
Ralph when Ralph sees a violin.
Oh, and then we've got a I don't I don't even know the context,
but it's from play creations.
Perhaps an upcoming character or one that was long before.
I would go with left from our right.
This is totally for left from our left from our.
Yeah, we're getting ahead of it.
Left from ours.
I just saw it in chat.
Someone's asking why it's metal always cry though.
That's that goes way back.
I can't even what is the origin of that?
Leave me be.
Oh, fuck.
Okay.
Yeah, that's a whole story too.
Yeah, that was those dark souls to fume night montage.
It would kill me to see any character and anything
use like say leave me be after you said it.
Yeah, leave me be all right.
Really bad, really bad internet back then as well.
Like super bad upload like blotchy stream.
I can't believe like this is honestly, I don't think this
has ever happened.
We're like on the schedule.
Like everything is running as I was hoping.
Everything is still time.
We can derail it.
We can still fucking all up, dude.
It's okay.
Yo, let's talk about how air is not wet.
And then I look over at rags as fucking icon.
Yeah, but is wind windy?
Um, no.
That'll derail the stream.
Because from the wind's perspective, it's not moving.
You are muffled, sir.
Because from the wind's perspective,
it's the thing that's not moving.
And the world is moving around it.
So to the wind, the world is windy.
To the wind, it's the world that is windy.
Whoa.
Yes, I'm going to tweet it out of the pool hole.
All right.
Out of the pool hole.
It's windy out of the pool.
So again, I know that there's going to be a lot of people
out there who want it would want us to cover this more
extensively.
I'm going to be covering it kind of briefly, because it's
just going to be a lot of people out there who want us to
cover it kind of briefly, because it's just it's not
going to happen, right?
We could talk about all the different things that could
have and did not happen.
I'm not too invested, but it is interesting to check out
what Colin, the writer of Jurassic World 1 and 2,
I believe he wrote both of them, had in store for episode 9.
I'm just going to, I will pass this article along to you folks
and we shall read it out.
All right.
Collider.
Yes, that leaked Colin Trevorrow Star Wars 9 script is real.
Adam Chippewa.
Fucking Adam.
Fucking piece of shit.
Man, Adam ruins everything.
That's a reference to that thing.
It's terrible.
Well, can we skip ahead to the would be title crawl?
You're right.
Yeah, we yeah.
You can just go from there.
Who starts?
Yeah, I was going to say I don't mind doing it.
Yes, do it.
All right.
The opening crawl from the script written by Trevorrow and
Connolly.
I'm not sure.
I don't recognize that name, but it is as follows.
The iron grip of the First Order has spread to the farthest
reaches of the galaxy.
That's already pretty interesting.
Yeah, that's yeah, because that means they have enough people
to have an iron grip on all of the galaxy, which is enormous.
Like the farthest reaches.
Like, whoa, so they're bigger than the empire.
How significantly bigger than that?
Like, just no, he means that it's got a lot of power.
That's all you know.
You know, he wrote that live beard like they're big.
And it sounds cool.
Yeah.
And if it sounds cool, what else do you need?
Only a few scattered planets remain unoccupied.
Oh, my God.
Really?
So I guess we still need to find an order.
Oh, my goodness.
And I'm sorry.
And they're going to resolve it in this film.
Yeah, they're going to do a whole group of work.
Plus, in one movie, you'll have a character be like,
you see the empire built a fail safe.
If you hit the big red button in the big building,
it'll destroy them all.
Like, oh, yeah, all the heads explode and their shifts blow up.
We don't do it well so far, though.
Um, traitorous acts are punishable by death,
determined to suffocate a growing unrest.
Supreme leader Kylo Ren has silenced.
Kylo Ren!
I guess they went with it.
Yeah, it makes sense because in TLJ,
he describes him as supreme leader.
So it doesn't make sense.
Has silenced all communication between neighboring systems.
Really?
That's going to go well with everybody.
Imagine how much work that would take.
So there's a complete communication blockade.
Yeah, no one can talk to anybody across the galaxy.
No, they're going to invent some McGuffin ship thing.
The fluke.
And it prevents anyone from speaking to anyone.
No, they're not going to have a fluke.
They're not even going to justify it.
That's just going to be it.
People can't talk, deal with it.
Oh, okay.
Unless they use the fluke jammer.
Oh, no.
Oh, not the fluke jammer.
That's the one thing that we hope they didn't have.
Let me just fluke with one another.
Yeah, man.
But there's the rumors in the great desert of Calakkaleath
that there's an anti fluke generator.
If we can get to it, we can free the galaxy of the flukes.
Led by General Leia Organa, of course.
The resistance has planned a secret mission to prevent their annihilation
and forge a path to freedom.
Okay, so that's not a great start.
This is the beginning of our new trilogy or?
No, well, so this was supposed to be called Duel of the Fates, right?
I think that's what people have been saying.
Yeah.
I know.
A lot of people thought that was a really good title.
I was like, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's I mean, he stole it from somewhere else, but it's fine.
I don't know.
Jay, I don't know.
Okay, it's better than the Rise of Skywalker.
None of the probably Rise of Skywalker is the context.
It's horrifying.
It's like also no mention of no mention of Palpatine here.
Oh, yeah.
I've already heard he's not in this script, apparently.
Oh, my God.
It's like a different movie.
People already like that's a major upgrade.
It's like, well, we'll see changes like it is an upgrade to just remove Palpatine from it.
This saves Anakin sacrifice at the end.
It's already an upgrade.
I was going to say, yeah, that's true.
That's very true.
Yeah, it's even if even if everything is super shit, at least Anakin has been saved.
Well, we'll see who knows what else they could do.
The beginning of the film very much picks up from the Last Jedi in that the Force first order has
cut off all communication between planets in order to suppress a rebellion inspired by Luke
Skywalker's standoff at the Battle of Craze.
Boo.
So the spark of the spark of gay and boo.
So the spark of the rebellion did work in this version of the movie.
In fact, the opening sequence of Duel of the Fates finds Finn,
Rose and BB-8 stealing a Star Destroyer.
It doesn't say BB-8 actor.
Ben Rose and BB-8 stealing a Star Destroyer.
Yeah, let's say how the fuck did they do that?
You just take them, man.
This is the one thing I think that we could all agree on is Star Destroyers.
Star Destroyers are worthless in the sequel trilogy.
Star Destroyers are so worthless.
And it's so interesting because that's the.
Star Destroyers have like thousands and thousands.
Yes.
How the fuck do you steal a Star Destroyer?
Well, yeah, and the fact that they're the opening piece of iconography in Star Wars
that's not, you know, the main title.
It's a Star Destroyer fucking filling the screen with it.
And it's so impactful that it's just like, oh, you can just go get one.
Okay.
This is mine now.
The Star Destroyers.
Yeah.
And it's chock full of Imperial weapons.
No way.
A Star Destroyer is chock full of Imperial weapons.
Whoa.
That's why they could take it.
There was no, there was no personal level of all weapons.
Yeah.
It's full of Imperial weapons that supposedly all the crew would have in their hands.
No, there are no crew.
It's just weapons.
All right.
Maybe they hit a fire alarm and everyone just evacuated out of the Imperial.
Oh, that's a really good plan.
Um, you like they're running through corridors.
There's just weapons on the floor as if stormtroopers were there, but they just disappeared.
It's like a ghost ship and it turns into a horror movie.
Oh my God.
I'd watch it.
I'm so ready.
And Rose gets killed first and then second too.
Yay.
Star Wars.
During the heist, Finn sees a stormtrooper with his helmet off that he recognizes with
this, his story arc and duel of the face with his helmet off.
You can make up a lot of reasons for that, surely.
There's one singular stormtrooper.
He like, he like sneezes.
He's like, guys, where'd you go?
He sneezes and he slowly takes off his helmet.
There's like loads of slime that's attached to the front of his nose.
He's like,
It's a goop monster.
Finn's like, I know you.
Bob.
He's like.
Help.
I have space corona.
He just hears the sound of the sneeze and he's like, I know that sneeze.
That's a familiar sneeze.
That's Jim's sneeze.
Jim would always sneeze.
I know that sneeze anyway.
I like that.
I chew.
That's it.
I know he sneezes.
A chewy.
Where are we?
Does Ray kill chewy in this one?
Oh, I hope so.
Kind of need that for your arc, you know.
With his story arc in Duel of the Face,
nicely concluding the one that began in The Force Awakens.
Ooh, I don't know about that.
Let's see what I don't even know.
Something to do with you.
Recognizes the stormtrooper.
That means he's at least actually fucking did something with it.
Well, sure.
I'll give him that.
It's more than I was doing.
Growing up, he saw stormtroopers without their helmets all the time.
Yeah, but that's the point.
He recognizes this guy.
Okay.
All right.
Oh, and Rose.
Apparently, front and center through the whole movie,
which is a damn shame given that she's completely sidelined in Rise of Skyward.
No, it isn't.
She's such a shit fucking garbage character.
Why do people like her?
Who wrote this?
Who wrote this like-
Well, it's Collider?
I don't know.
I don't know if they like stuff or not.
In Trevorrow's vision,
Rose and Finn are on a mission to Coruscant to ignite an ancient beacon in the Old Jedi Temple,
which will call the galaxy to war.
Why weren't they?
Why do they need so many questions?
I have questions at every point of that.
All right.
Let's start with Rose and Finn.
Already, I see Rose.
That's a mistake.
I mean, they're track record with missions to metropolitan places.
Pretty shaky as it is, but all right.
We're going to Coruscant.
I guess that would be an opportunity to get some world building on the state of the fucking galaxy.
It's fucked.
What's going on in Coruscant?
Ignite an ancient beacon like in a Jedi War?
It's apparently a mission is to steal Imperial Star Destroyer,
go to Coruscant to an Old Jedi Temple.
And ignite an ancient beacon to tell the galaxy we're going to war.
So-
Is this the reason why they said there's no communication in the galaxy anymore?
Because this is the only way to tell everybody, hey, fight back.
Even how does it work?
Why would they not have disabled the beacon?
No, stop asking questions.
Why would they have used this thing in the prequels?
Like the Jedi be like, oh, fuck, everything's going to shit.
Quickly activate the beacon.
Begun the Clone Wars has.
Ignite the beacon.
The beacons are lit.
Coruscant calls for aid.
Man, you just combined a whole bunch of stuff.
I'm fucking on.
I'm in Fuego La Fromage today.
They get imprisoned, naturally.
Rose gets interrogated by General Hux and Finn leads an upro-
Hang on.
They get imprisoned.
Finn leads an uprising of defecting stormtroopers.
I guess he convinced him while he was captured.
Where did the Star Destroyer go?
It's parked outside, idiot.
Finn leads an uprising of defecting stormtroopers
in a ground battle in the streets of Coruscant.
I don't see how that's gonna work.
All right.
At the very end of the movie,
Finn and Rose lead a group of force-sensitive youth
to a remote planet where Rey is waiting to train
the next generation of Jedi.
Her advice is just be good at it.
They went back to Canto Bight, this time to rescue
the human children, not the animals.
That's improvement of a kind.
They do it successfully.
So the rebellion came in and stole all our slaves.
Someone said, could they mean the little thing they do
in episode three with sending the message and stuff?
I don't think they're referring to that because they use the phrase
ignite an ancient beacon rather than sending out a message
through that system, you know?
Wait, what message?
What system?
In episode three where they send out a message to say,
Jedi, stay away.
Oh, yeah.
I don't think you describe that as an ancient system
needing ignite.
Yeah, it's just like a phone call.
They make a phone call for the galaxy.
You know what?
You know if they went back to Coruscant, to that Jedi temple,
they would go to the meeting.
Well, first off, you would think that the Empire,
after 30-something years of control over Coruscant,
would have completely turned the building into something.
Oh, yeah.
They would have glassed that thing, get rid of it,
delete the Jedi from history.
Or they would remodel the fuck out of it,
and that would be their HQ or something.
It would make sense that they would actually make that their HQ,
like symbolically, that's very effective.
But I guess they're just going there to activate a beacon.
The last place in the galaxy they want to be,
there is where they're going.
Also, why would lighting the beacon get everybody to go to war?
No, you think that's not going to be like,
if Earth was taken over by the First Order,
we're all like living under a horrible thing,
and then someone sends us a text message being like,
we're going to war.
He'd be like, yeah.
Oh, here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
We would all have to see a signal individually,
but we're on different planets,
so we can't communicate with each other.
So everyone in the galaxy would have to come
to the same conclusion that it's time to rise up,
completely independent of each other.
Gamers rise up.
Gamers rise up.
Jedi's rise up.
Yeah, it'd be pretty tough to do this in one movie.
This sounds like a trilogy plan.
Yeah.
It sounds like a shit trilogy.
As they can't get over the Distal,
then Star Destroyer, Star Destroyer.
Yeah, that's pretty fine.
You just take them.
They just grow on trees.
You just want to try it.
And then get to presents.
As for Reylo.
They take the Star Destroyer to Kento Bite.
Specifically, just to pick up Broomboy.
Kylo Ren still dies at the end of Duel of the Fates,
but his arc in the film, as well as Rey's,
is completely different.
Oh, so there is one.
For one, there's no Emperor Palpatine.
At the beginning of the movie,
Kylo Ren has vanished off to Mustapha,
Darth Vader's lava planet,
and is wallowing around in Vader's old castle.
Wow, that's going to be a great scene.
Re-slaying.
That's a great scene, wallowing.
What castle?
I can make this Kylo wallowing again.
It had a castle in the comics,
and it's also in Rogue One.
Yeah, I was going to say, it's in Rogue One.
There's precedent.
It's like Skeletor's.
It's cool.
I remember fucking loads of people were like,
it's so dumb that he put a castle in the place
that he hates from being burned.
No, it's the Sith.
Exactly.
Precisely what he would do.
I totally believe he would build his castle
in the place that fucked him up.
Good old Vader.
The next sentence.
There, he's haunted by the force ghost of Luke Skywalker.
Oh my god.
Oh no.
You can picture his on the toilet,
and Luke is like, hey, does it hurt?
Does it hurt?
Does it hurt?
He's like, leave me alone, dad.
I mean, other, uncle, whatever.
Whatever you are.
Don't talk that way to me.
I should have killed you when I had the chance.
Then, I don't know.
So he's like trying to copy down someone's phone number
for later Kylo into the background.
Luke is going three, seven, eight, nine, 126.
And he's like, stop it.
No, you stop it.
No, you.
No, you stop it.
It's like, well, you're repeating me.
Stop repeating me.
Stop repeating me.
Kylo's going to watch TV,
and Luke just stands in between him and the TV.
He's like, what you watching?
Like trying to watch porn.
I would still have the problem.
Why doesn't Luke just zap him?
Kylo's just what kind of push him off a bridge
or just trip him or Luke's like super dark.
And he's like, I could kill you,
but I'm going to drive you to suicide.
He's like, he's like, yeah.
Well, look what you did, Kylo.
Look what you did.
Kylo's just going to go and kill yourself.
Yeah, no one likes you.
Ray will never sleep with you.
And Kylo's just trying to have a quick time to himself,
quick joke off, watching some porn,
and then Luke's just staring at him like,
that's just pretty off-putting, huh?
Have you seen the robot chicken version
where Attica is haunted by Jar Jar?
No, yeah.
Annie.
No.
And even fights a hallucinatory version of Darth Vader,
a la Luke's fight in the cave.
We can do it too, guys.
He comes into contact with the Sith teacher of Palpatine,
Tor Valoom, or Valum, Valum.
Not Darth, so not Darth Plagueis then.
No, Tor Valum, obviously.
Tor Valum.
Let's flip it.
Vore Talum.
This is not going to end well.
Uh, via an ancient Sith device,
as he's trying to put an end to the Jedi and the Sith once and for all,
but he's bad, bad, bad in this version of the story.
He's gone full Heisenberg, so to speak.
Okay.
Ray, meanwhile, still believes there's good in Kylo Ren,
and has teamed up with Poe to put an end to the Jedi and the Sith in her own way.
Another story point this film picks up from the ending of The Last Jedi.
She has to team up with someone?
Does everyone want to put an end to the Jedi?
Fucking hell.
Yeah, like the Jedi are really good.
Like, nah, you guys didn't do the sex.
It's like, oh.
Jedi has time.
Like, you guys failed after thousands and thousands and thousands of years of galactic peace.
So.
You were shot in the back by your own bed.
Keep your fucking bad up, idiots.
I'm such a bitch.
And Ray's parents?
Still nobody's.
I.e. Ray is not a Palpatine.
But Kylo Ren killed them at the behest of Snoke.
What?
Oh, so they like tracked them down somehow?
So Kylo Ren tracked down Ray's parents just to kill them?
Because Snoke told them to, I guess.
I wonder how the hell he would do that.
Yeah, why would.
This was before, because Snoke told him.
Yeah, why would Snoke be interested in killing this random desert girl's parents?
Because he's evil, and he's a big meanie.
At that point, it's like she's random to him.
And if it's because she was like super force sensitive or whatever,
it's like, wouldn't he be interested in here?
Of course, this has to have happened in like the one,
like in the five minutes between the Force Awakens and TLJ.
Because there's no other time.
Five minutes?
Before then, they haven't met Ray.
And what the fuck?
The finale of the movie finds Ray and Kylo Ren ducking it out.
Duking it out, sorry.
In the.
Ducking.
Ducking.
On the mystical planet Mortis.
With Ray getting an assist from the Force ghosts.
Of Luke, Obi-Wan and Yoda.
Can you imagine a duck running away from Kylo Ren on the wreckage of the Death Star?
You'd hear his little feet.
The Jedi try unsuccessfully to bring Kylo Ren back to the light,
but he's too far gone.
And in the end, he is extinguished.
Oh my goodness.
That's a way to put it.
What does that even mean?
He's extinguished.
So they double killed him?
Like they smash him into an ashtray?
I don't have no idea what that means.
He's extinguished.
Extinguish him.
No.
I love the idea that Obi-Wan, Luke and Yoda all try to appeal to him.
And he's like, no, fuck all of you.
And then they're like, well, you know what?
Fuck you.
And they're just killing.
I like how in this in this Trevor script, they're like,
it's not like the other version where Kylo's a really bad person.
Okay.
I mean, a lot of people, a lot of people would say like,
this is, you know, it's extremely upsetting that we didn't get the script.
I'm like, I don't know, man.
There are some things that are pretty garbage.
It's like, I at least like the thing where they don't have Rey as Palpatine's,
you know, relation or anything like that.
But having Rose in it.
Oh, are those people TLJ fans?
Pretty much.
Rose people who want the Rose.
No, the people who are saying that it's a shame we got this, that we didn't get this.
I mean, I've seen all kinds of different sort of
people with different opinions saying that this wouldn't.
I know that like, can we can you guys concede this is better?
Are we cool with that?
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
I guess it does so many different things.
Having Rose front and center though, dude.
I don't care.
Listen, listen, we're comparing this to garbage, right?
If this is garbage too, but it maintains that Anakin actually killed Palpatine
and was the chosen one and completed the whole arc.
That is a huge improvement.
At least it doesn't fuck around with the OT.
At least that keeps this more self-contained.
And you know, we don't have a lot of specifics.
So this could be both better or worse than we realize.
Low standard.
It is a really low bar.
We all agree.
Um, though, like someone just said, this wouldn't be a good substitute.
It's like, it's not a fucking welcome substitute, I suppose.
Like it's like, oh, but it's terrible, but it's better.
It's like, do you want to get stabbed 12 times or eight?
You're like, I guess, I guess eight.
Yeah.
Um, so this is what honestly many felt was the crux of episode nine should have been the
battle for Kylo Ren's soul.
Instead, Abrams and co decided to muddle up everything with this Palpatine nonsense,
which is just unnecessary added external conflict that detracts from the emotional
thrust of this trilogy.
Okay.
Wait, wait, what?
I don't really know.
Uh, well, we don't have to read any more of this now because it's
also, I'm sure, I'm sure I'm sure for that.
I want it.
No, it's mine.
You can't have two.
Some good meme turnaround right there.
Um, but yeah, no, this still seems like it would be poopy.
Um, but a better taste of poop.
You know, the poop has got a bit of glazing on it of some kind.
I guess there's some peanuts in the poop.
Oh, fuck.
The one thing I was shown and, uh, this is, this, this is, uh, someone I've seen people
tweet about because they're so beyond shocked.
This is the thing someone would write in a script and, uh, I'm paraphrasing, um,
but I know I remember the, the important part.
So Hux wants to kill everybody on Coruscant, I think.
I think it's like the, the list, the defectors or whatever.
And he's like, go kill all of those people.
And then like some other subordinate is like,
General Hux, we have been outnumbered.
We are being overwhelmed.
It's over or something like that.
And then it's not dialogue.
It's like, like, like narration from the script.
I don't know if they would have actually done it or if it would have just stayed in the script.
I fucking hope it would have stayed in the script.
But it said like, and there Hux realized he had lost the star war.
Please never put that in a star wars movie ever.
No, no, actually, no, wait.
If you're going to fucking fuck everything up, do it.
Have Jar Jar Biggs narrating.
It's like an eight year old.
He lost the star war.
I like at the end of the movie, he like, he,
he was like, and that might be how it happened.
So subjective.
No, Luke just makes it.
At least my students in the temple are OK.
Also, I just want to make sure we all understand.
They said that like Ray just ends up teaching a whole new brand of fucking Jedi,
which is I thought they said her arc was to stop the Jedi or whatever.
Yeah.
No, these are you die.
They're different.
It's you die by God led by angry Jew in in the in the spliff.
In the chamber of Jukran spliff.
Yeah, Judy, you die in the spliff.
They're different in the split.
But the you die are good in the spliff or bad in the spliff.
Sounds like such a fucking band or something.
You die in the spliff.
Is the spliff like a superhero?
Guys, if anyone in chat is starting a band, call it Judai in the spliff.
What if it's mistaken for being very, very bigoted?
What do they do there?
No, just felt like J.U.D.I.
You don't know how it's spelled.
Judaism.
I guess that doesn't sound like you die.
Yeah.
I just googled for the spliff and apparently spliff was a German band in the 1980s.
Wow.
Well, good for Germans.
I know, right?
At least they did one or two things, right?
Yeah.
And so all we've got left now are memes and movie Bob quiz.
And we're doing just fine with time, at least from what I can gather.
So it's going to collect up another another whole line of memes for us.
And then we'll move on to that.
Then we might not finish memes.
I'm getting through a whole chunk here, but you know, we'll try.
But in the meantime, I depend upon you fools to entertain the chat.
One thing that's interesting about that article is that it says it's way better than the rise
of Skywalker that we got, but it's just for completely different reasons.
Like they don't even mention, oh, thank God, there's no Palpatine.
And this completely redeems the whole Anakin Skywalker chosen one arc from the original
trilogy and the prequels combined.
No, it'll talk about that.
I like, man, y'all are shit at this Star Wars thing.
They say it as though the reason why it's good.
Palpatine's not there is that it doesn't have the whole tie in with Rey's family.
It's like, no, that's not the problem.
That's I mean, it's still pretty silly too, but compared to the the big problem,
the large man problem, the long man problem, the problem.
Sounds like it could be a Doctor Who episode.
The long man problem.
No, I'd watch it.
You'd watch anything Doctor Who.
Yeah, I know.
You've been loving the new season, right?
Yeah, so fucking good, Doctor Who.
Hey, Rex, tell Efap Chat about how you watched two episodes of Doctor Who.
I watched two episodes of Doctor Who.
One of them was called the Tower of Doctors of Lost.
And in this episode, it's fantastic.
And in this episode, it's fantastic.
Courage has to save Muriel from being hit by a unhappy cannonball.
So he has to go to the Tower of Doctors of Lost and confront
Doctors of Lost and his assistant Rat in order to steal the happy,
happy cannonball and hit her with it.
And in doing so, the villain actually experiences an arc
where he learns to be happy and appreciate the things that are around him.
It's very, very good.
And it makes it makes plums look very appealing.
And I think that the music is fantastic as well.
Tower of Doctors of Lost is one of probably my favorite animated
single animated episode of a show that I could ever potentially see.
So the moral of the story, if anybody doesn't watch the Tower of Doctors of Lost,
I think you're really missing out on.
Is it better than Scooby Doo and Zombie Island?
Oh, it's hard to say because one's just an episode.
But the Zombie Island is a it's a whole movie, so it's tough to compare them.
I don't know which one's better.
Honestly, they're both so good.
They're certainly very, very different, but they're both fantastic.
What was the question?
I don't think there was a question.
Oh, right.
Dr. Who.
I saw Midnight and I saw Waters of Mars.
They were both really, really good.
They were an excellent way.
They're very digestible in terms of you don't have to know a lot about the lore and stuff
to enjoy these episodes.
They're really good standalone pieces.
And one of the things I really like is that it accents and it shows off the idea that a good
episode is not made by its its budget, right?
Especially with Midnight, the set is super simple.
CGI is really simple as well.
It's all about the writing and the execution of the idea in the acting.
It's fantastic, and it's really, really gripping stuff.
Waters of Mars is kind of the same way.
A little bit bigger budget in terms of the sets and all that, but they tell a really fantastic story.
It's a lot bigger.
It's certainly larger scale.
Absolutely.
Midnight is basically it takes place in a room, but it's a Mars space station for a Martian colony.
A series of structures for Waters of Mars.
They're both very, very good.
I'd recommend them.
To anybody, but I've basically seen nothing about Doctor Who, apart from that.
I want to say I've seen some of the older stuff in bits and pieces when I was younger,
but I don't remember really anything.
I would say the way to watch Doctor Who is to just skip around to get to the best bits
and like, yeah, do that.
Watch Seeds of Doom.
It's great.
I love that one.
You do get what that sounds like, right?
Well, it's like, I'm going to do it.
You do get what that sounds like, right?
Well, it's like, I'm going to kill you with my spunk.
Yes.
That's what the episodes about.
You fucking edit.
You guys have seen day one.
Seeds of Doom.
Oh damn.
Yeah.
And that was recorded just after Doom was.
And so people were like, wow, you came out late with Doom.
It's like, oh.
But the thing is that one, we could have told people we recorded it yesterday.
And I don't think there's anything in the video that gives away that that's not the case.
So we'll be fine outside of the icons.
Probably actually, yeah, the icons will give it away.
Anyway, on to memes.
I could just cover those up with like one really, really simple layer in Vegas.
Because there's lots of zooms and stuff.
So I'd have to keep knocking it out and knocking it in.
What am I?
Why would I do that?
That's knocking it out.
Well, why would you lie that it was recorded yesterday?
I wouldn't.
That's why I just said what I said.
If you were gonna, though, like you could, you could.
Yes, Jay.
If I was going to do all those things, I would do all of those things.
Yeah.
See, nailed it.
My maze.
Can't believe you just bullied me off this podcast.
I can't believe there's so many Alfred memes.
He'll be all right.
No, that meme is dead.
It died.
I mean, it could die.
Like where you were who made that.
You took a gamble and you lost.
All right.
It'll die within the year.
These aren't ordered.
I've just this just help for me.
Oh, that's a good job.
There you go.
Oh, my goodness.
This is so good.
Oh, my God.
Alfred.
That's there's some fucking stay.
He made that.
So he didn't he thought nothing when he said that and wrote it down.
But we've just taken that hours.
No, it belongs to us.
You're an awful mess.
Playing my video invited me to eat fat.
He just wanted to make.
Yeah, we did.
You're an awful mess.
You don't even know me, pal.
How?
Wait, what?
Oh, I had zoomed in too far to see the bottom fucking caption.
And I was like, well, it's not an Alfred meme.
Yes, it is.
Nice.
It's a Pareto.
Alfredo.
I had us in the first half.
I'm not going to lie.
It was an elf.
Like, oh, someone sent us a picture of spaghetti.
That's Pareto.
Really?
Well, why were you showing that?
Because the caption at the bottom says it's supposed to be Alfredo.
Yes.
But why not read?
Fuck it.
Because Alfredo sounds like Alfred.
That's not what I'm asking.
What are you asking?
No, I'm really curious.
What are you asking?
Okay, so you said that you put this meme in the chat
and then you hadn't seen the caption?
No, so when I pulled it up on my selection,
I was zoomed in so I could only see the Alfredo.
Yeah, but then, okay.
But surely if you hadn't seen what the caption was,
you didn't know what the meme was.
Yeah, so I was tempted to cross it off.
And then I was like, oh, wait, no, it is actually,
oh, it's fucking Alfred meme.
Like, when I saw that, if it was going to be a meme,
it's not gonna have anything to do with Alfred
because it's fucking food.
But then I was like, oh, wait, I'm wrong.
Fucking J, not understanding anything.
Oh, it's not even, it's a Ralph meme,
but it's not an Alfred one.
Nailed it.
Oh, my goodness.
They exist.
Breath of fresh air.
Okay, now I'm confused.
Wombat combat.
What?
He's got a sword.
Jordan.
That's the go-to Ralph image.
That's the one that they all use.
Frumpy face, dude.
I know Jay's seen this one, but you'll still like it.
The hot dog.
If you had to do it, so this meme is when they just go nuts
and start assuming all different characters
are all different villains.
Robert De Niro is the condiment king.
I almost feel like they made him
just so they could say that condiment case.
Actually, those aren't like a part of a suit.
Those are actual briefs.
Good.
I'm glad.
Good.
Good R-rated movie.
Great R-rated movie.
Amazing R-rated movie.
I mean, if this is a meme, that means it's true.
So just saying.
It must be.
Oh, my God.
Look at this violent photo that someone must have taken
during the stream.
I don't even.
Don't even phase him.
Yeah.
Oh, dude.
We're going to have to, you know, I was about to spoil
something.
I'm not going to.
It's just got reminded of something extremely stupid,
but it'll come up in a future recap.
So it's all good.
Oh, my God.
Don't leave us hanging.
That's foreshadowing.
We'll just make a note, Jay.
And then I'll tell you about it as soon as the stream's over.
All right.
Make a note.
Put it in your little notepad.
So this is actually a reference to the trailer
for Wonder Woman ism-tism-tism.
And he gets confused and looks at a bin and says,
is that art?
And she's like, no, that's just a trash can.
And so Ralph sees it as a trash.
That's upsetting to me.
And the other things are TROS, Ghostbusters, and Star Wars,
The Last Jedi.
This is referencing how there are many movies made
by a particular director.
I might have that do come across as a hell of a lot more
dreamlike than any other.
But Ralph seems to think that all movies have dreamlike logic.
Oh, and all your interested nations.
That's a word now.
I was I was perusing Reddit as one does.
And there was a subreddit called That's Insane
that I caught wind of.
And I was like, huh?
And it's just a collection of things
that kind of make you react with, wow, that's insane.
And of all the luck I could possibly have,
apparently, no, actually, so keep that story in mind.
Now we're going to flip to a different, quicker story.
So your context for this other story.
Okay.
Doing a prestige on you.
Okay, here we go.
Yeah, there's other story.
In many criticisms for Joker, a lot of people,
including cinema sins, say that when Joker puts himself
in his fridge, he's dead because there's no way
he can get out because it latches on.
And that's how fridges were made back then.
Please fuck.
And like, I've always just been like, huh,
you think they would have noted that or known about that
or whatever.
Yeah, I think I pressed X to doubt on that one.
Well, turns out that's true that there were fridges
with the lash design when they were first made
in order to, you know, keep it the air from spreading out
that would do just that.
They would close for the latch from the outside,
but there's no way to open it from the inside.
And so children being retarded would get inside fridges,
fucking lock themselves in and then suffocate.
Because again, retarded children.
And it was in something called like the Emergency Fridge Act.
I fucking I'm paraphrasing.
Emergency Fridge Act.
You'd have to like someone could Google it.
I'll obviously set this up for when we're going to need it.
It came in like, I want to say 19 late 1950s or late 1960s.
I hear Googling.
I'm hoping for a result.
The point.
Emergency Fridge Act.
The appointment.
The emergency.
Also known as EFA.
The point.
So the Refrigerator Safety Act is codified at,
you know, at public law August 2nd, 1956.
Yeah.
So the point of it was that fridges now legally
have to be able to be opened from the inside.
Which is so this is the one part that I'm hazy on.
I don't know if they made a design of fridge
that is the one that he's using in the film
that could also be open from the inside.
I'm obviously not going to know something like that.
What I do know is that that act was passed,
what, like a decade before Joker takes place?
No, this is if it passed in 1956.
The Joker takes place in like,
Oh, fuck.
56.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that's like, that's the way later.
So yeah, so that doesn't work like 27 years or so.
It's about a quarter century.
Yeah, according to that, the fridge should legally
have been required to be able to be opened
from the inside for like 30 plus years or however long.
And so if someone said, ah, but you're wrong
because several fridges still would have existed
that didn't open from the inside.
Like maybe the law hadn't spread enough.
And then I'd be like, yeah,
but wouldn't it be on you that you're assuming
it's one that he can't get out of
rather than assuming it was one that he can?
Yeah, at this point, you're at this point,
you're saying, well, maybe the gun wasn't.
Yeah.
And for me, I'm just like, if he could get out of it,
that means that the fridge was something
that he could get out of, right?
There's no problem with that.
And the only argument I think they could do
is if they could definitively identify
the make and model of that fridge
and prove that there was never a vision
that could be broken out of.
But even then, we could argue that it
joke is a false universe and that they're trying
to argue that this is one that could.
At that point, I can't get you to the fridge.
So there.
But I don't know.
I thought like I called that.
Objectivity defeated.
I called that fact randomly.
And I was like, oh, shit, that's actually useful
for a joke of discussion tisms.
I like this image.
You have an awfully childlike face.
That's cute.
You were never really gone.
This goes around killing people.
He's like, you're not really.
This is the epic.
We face all of the bots.
Oh, yeah.
That's how it begins.
I don't remember that.
X, X, X, amateur sex video.
Jesus Christ rags rain it in.
Oh, I kind of actually I kind of want that.
That little clip of the X, X, X amateur sex videos.
Click here saying Jesus Christ rags.
Even I am making the sex bot go like, whoa, calm down.
Oh, and this is kind of relevant mods.
Kill the people.
I remember that, I think.
Lack of context objectivity.
Oh, I broke his sword.
I know that one.
It's Metal Gear Rising Revengeance Tisms.
You are correct.
It's true because there was alcohol.
I like that in Metal's image, he has his hand up to his face.
He's going to pull down his mouth with his other hand
so that the beer can get it.
Yeah, I'm a very experienced drinker.
They thought this was the Vap 70.
Oh, my God.
I like it.
They worked together.
Holy trinity of bad takes.
Oh, this is a long man in the form of a Bionicle, I believe.
I'm going to go with Bionicle.
Yes, I'm pretty sure it's Bionicle.
I think it was more than just this one.
There was something else that was posted with it.
If it's in my selection, I will get it.
No, he's long.
That is a long void.
That is a long.
Longoid, if you will.
You were never really the king of taxis.
An in-cell fill, but he's got the king crowd of the taxis.
Poorness.
Oh, thank goodness.
I was feeling alone from over there.
Alfred means.
Choking penis.
Look at Alfred's face.
Exactly.
They've they've put it across as well as up is great.
A lot of good care went into making that.
Yeah, yeah, boy.
Jay, a film about how you got a manager,
which I understand this very clearly.
Now, having seen Parasite, I see what they're saying.
I get it.
It's good, everybody.
Yeah, go check out Parasite.
I watched it.
It's good.
Rags and I are married in this.
Oh, dude.
They put in the reflection.
You can see Rags's doggo head.
Oh, my God.
They got the rise of Skywalker, man.
Excellent detail.
Actually, one of the rays of Skywalker.
Showing the professionals how it's done.
Also, yeah, this is like I can't remember which stream this was.
Might have been the last one, but he said kick molar.
And one of my mods said.
All right.
All right.
Well, a horrifying day.
All right.
Beginning of the next.
What is it?
Oh, it's chat aiming.
Hello, Rags.
Hi.
Oh, yeah.
Because this is all the high rags I had saved.
He's a happy dad.
Oh, yeah.
Ralph Pipkin movie maker reviewing his imagined vision
of Joker if after watching this review after watching
the actual Joker film.
Wait, it's disturbed.
I suppose it's not the idea.
Oh, a pretty cool image of the stream.
Another photo.
Exactly how it went down.
The Trinity of Ralph's.
Oh, this was this was the potential of it was all a bait.
Sure.
Yes.
Joker paint.
You're awful.
Waller.
Oh, yeah.
I'm awful.
Why is that playing my video making fun of you on the show?
You just wanted to laugh at me.
Oh, man.
My drink just empty.
Oh, shit.
Remember, guys, the iron wind.
Oh, shit.
The iron work of the iron.
The trade.
That's what it is.
Everyone knows this.
Well, I'm going to help me.
We just explained to people that the correct term for a train
is an iron wind.
I think it's from chat.
I'm glad you agree.
I didn't want to make this.
You cry.
Babies.
Maybe.
I guess Ralph is running away from children and comic fans.
You look so disinterested in every single face.
And this is just disinterested.
It's always that is his face, man.
That's all it ever is.
Oh, the baby rage.
Like, I have never seen this man smile.
Oh, this is a good one.
So you got I'm like, not yet.
Well, don't kill him because we didn't know if they were real.
I think the tears add to this.
You're like, I don't know if we should do it.
The people need a new profile picture.
I've only seen the old one.
Oh, they'll get there.
It's very classic.
It's probably on because a lot of people
use Efap.me as a resource.
I don't know if Kiva can put up your new one.
I don't think mine is on there at all, I think.
Either way, that's metal saying,
put his new icon in your in your memes because he's upset now.
It's such a random picture to use for it.
Children Ralph.
Oh, my God.
This looks like CGI.
It's not even necessary.
We just had a purple purple man.
I like to imagine that it's Thanos saying that.
Thanos was like this CGI.
Attack on Joker.
Do do do do do do do do do do.
Attack on Joker.
And the last for the selection.
I know.
How could you?
Action driver isn't good.
What did Patrick Willems say about Joker?
It's not.
It's not that good.
Also, Patrick Willems,
I don't know what he said about Joker, actually.
I'm going to see if he's tweeted about it.
Hapsi has a negative tweet.
He has a lot of negative tweets.
So I guess the way I'll do this.
How should we do this?
So the idea is you choose it's a movie ball quote
or not, you know, like a Nazi quote.
And should it be like a vote between the all of us here?
Or should me and Rags not even necessarily be involved in it
because we know a lot of them?
I don't know.
Okay, if we know it, we can just excuse ourselves from the.
You hiccup at me.
It's called Movie Bob or Nazi slash Neo-Nazi 4.0 the finale.
This quiz is made for the podcast.
If you do not watch it,
most of the jokes will not make sense.
However, the quiz is still fully functional
as a demonstration of how insane movie Bob is.
I'm sorry, not giving sources for these quotes
because I only thought about doing it halfway
through making the quiz.
However, all of the movie Bob quotes are sourced from his Twitter.
The Nazi quotes have primarily been sourced from Mein Kampf
and the Daily Stormer.
Um, hi, Wags.
Okay, that's the place to get them.
Hello, all my N words.
This quiz will test the limits of your massive intelligence.
Even the great spider oracles had trouble divining
the correct answers.
Wow, it's really hard to tell the difference
between these quotes, Adolf Hitler.
I plan on making a condensed quiz
based on the best questions from this quiz.
Once I get around to 200 and 300 responses responses,
I would make the condensed quiz at that point.
We'll just we can just do this one.
Um, so these are instructions, I guess.
The way this quiz works is you'll be given a quote.
You have to decide if it is a Nazi quote or a movie Bob quote.
You have to do this for a total of 100 quotes.
The Nazi quotes could be from any Nazi
from the original funny mustache man himself
or the edgy book to whatever tism stuff
I could find on Richard Spencer's Twitter.
Also, I remove some of the words that make it obvious
who the quote is from.
I will censor the obvious word by putting theme
in the censored words place.
Some examples of these potential words
would be Jew, Germany, or Nazi.
Additionally, I had to fix the grammar of movie Bob's quotes.
If I didn't, you could just choose the quotes
that were crimes against the English language
and get all the correct answers.
Finally, I updated some of the language
in the quick Hitler quotes because they use words
that no one uses anymore with the instructions out of the way.
Please enjoy this quiz brought to you by Adam Hilt.
Also, Mueller, after you take the quiz,
I can send you the statistics for the quiz on Discord.
George is in to know.
I recognize him from Twitter.
I'm not going to lie.
Movie Bob looks more like a war criminal than Hitler.
Who did you chat it's better?
Drill Sergeant Bobby is going to chew out the new recruits.
All right.
So I guess the way I'll do this then is I read out the quote
and then a vote takes place.
And I guess we'll make it Jay does bullshit.
Mel can vote on it.
And like I said, me and Rags will probably only come in
if we actually do not know.
We can let people know ahead of time.
So also, if you don't know the quote,
it might be a good indicator.
I'm not read.
Actually, the problem is the first one.
I think everyone knows this one.
It might be an indicator that it's a Nazi one.
So what's the first one?
The first one is I'll never forgive the troglodytes
who stole the future I earned to prolong their worthless existence.
Yeah, I remember that one.
That's definitely Bob.
We all know that's Bob.
Plus, Hitler never used the term troglodyte anyway.
Yeah, but they said they updated the language.
Maybe they did.
You don't know.
Let me say it.
He spoke German.
All right.
Quote two.
I think that human beings,
if you talk about our differences in terms of talent or intelligence
or any other area that doesn't necessarily make an individual human being inferior
or a race inferior,
Oh, that one's harder.
I will I will post them to you guys.
You can read them as well.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think Nazi.
Yeah, I'm gonna.
Yeah, I'm thinking Nazi on that one.
Well, I'm gonna hear what one.
The one I just posted and
sounds like something Bob would say,
but this is something I'm not say either.
Surely Nazis think a race is inferior.
That's like the whole deal.
Mm hmm.
Say, I think that you need.
Let me see.
I think that's movie, Bob.
I think I think this is what movie Bob would say right before a big,
but no, no, I think this is a Nazi because they're operating from.
It sounds like they're operating from a perspective
where you would expect a race to be inferior.
I don't necessarily think a race is inferior.
I just don't like the people of that race.
I actually think I read that quote before,
and I think it's from Hitler himself.
Well, I'm going to abstain from the entire quiz
because I'm enjoying just being the one who reads them out.
We'll go with just we'll do it by votes,
and if there's a tie, I'll be there.
I think it's kind of expected of you that you participate.
Well, I can reveal my vote at the end of each one.
No, I don't.
Oh, he does.
No, no, I don't, but I was actually stuck on this one
until Mel said what he said.
So I'm assuming it's a Hitler quote now.
I mean, don't quote me on that.
I think I did.
Don't quote you on the quote.
I'm quoting you.
I would go with Nazi because I actually don't know the origin
for this one for sure.
What about everyone else?
Right.
Nazi.
Yeah, it's Nazi for sure.
Well, that's three.
So that's good enough.
Okay.
All American politics of my lifetime have been put
have been about backwards people, wedded to an inferior
presence, trying to prevent a superior future.
I'm almost certain this is Bob.
Bob.
So wait a minute.
I'm still here, Bobby.
Do we not get the answer to that last one?
Not yet, no.
You have to answer them all first.
Okay, so that third one.
Let me read that one more time.
I think human being.
Can you post that other one?
The third one?
Wait, sorry.
You want to...
Third, the one you just read.
Could you post that?
Well, I'm starting.
Maybe we should do this to make it more interesting.
You should actually go with your gut so we can get through
it quickly and we'll see how funny the answers turn out to
be.
So the more you think about it, the more it should become
clear.
Okay, so read that one more time, then.
It's in chat.
All American politics of my lifetime have been about
backwards people wedded to an inferior present, trying to
prevent a superior future.
I am so very, very tired of being denied a better will
because of the small visions and smaller minds affecting
so much of humanity.
That's like, yeah, that's honestly.
Yeah, my vote is movie Bob, but I could, it's such a, like
a Nazi could totally say it.
Yeah, but it's totally Bob.
But like, I don't, I don't, it's because it's about America.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's Bob.
If it's a German, then I'd be like, hmm.
Oh, but it didn't wait, to be fair, didn't he say that he
was getting Richard Spencer and people.
Yeah.
Okay.
So this is why it's interesting, but we're locked in.
All right.
I'm going to, I'm still going with Bob.
I can't go back.
It's Bob.
Code for instruction in world history in the so-called high
schools is even today in a very sorry condition.
You teachers understand that the study of history can never be
to learn historical dates and events by heart.
But what matters is not whether the child knows exactly when
this battle or that was fought, when a general was born, or even
when a monarch was coronated.
To learn history means to seek and find the forces which are
the causes leading to the effects, which we subsequently
perceive as historical events.
Nazi.
Yeah, that's a Nazi.
That's too eloquent for Bob.
I was going to say, I'm going for the Nazi.
I'm not as venomous sounding as Bob.
That's like a pretty smart thing.
And it's the kind of thing where being a Nazi wouldn't
inform your perspective like that.
Yeah, I just don't think Bob would have been able to say it.
Yeah, there's also too much punctuation.
That's not Bob.
Selfistic Autistics wants me to tell you, Jay, that your
comments been deleted on the objectivity video.
I'm assuming it's just not visible.
We can't know for sure if it's been deleted, but maybe.
Oh my God, my comment, you know what my comment was?
It was literally just, I don't think this video is very good.
Wow, deleted that.
Wow, what a little thin skinned bitch.
That's racist.
You can't say that about thin skinned bitches.
At some point, you have to choose to be a party to meaningful
societal evolution and accept that not everyone is going to
follow you into the future.
Some will choose to remain backward and left behind.
Bob.
That's Bob.
I was going to say, I'm leaning to Bob.
All right.
When intelligent members of society become unable to overrule
the ignorant, society falls.
That's Bob.
Bob.
I'm willing to go either way on that one.
It's definitely in line with Bob, but.
Then again, there was a little far too few words in that.
Can you paste it in the chat?
I'll just go with the gut feeling.
Well, yeah, I was going to say, we got to keep it going otherwise.
Oh, we got quite a few to go.
Nice.
All right.
Yeah.
I'm sticking with Bob.
Oh, that could, I think that's Bob.
Yeah.
It's quite eloquent for him though.
All right.
I think that's enough votes for Bob then, is it?
All right.
There is forward and there is backward.
Superior future and inferior past.
The evolved and the intelligent versus
the ignorant and small minded.
He was like, I thought it was not yet first,
but then he started using small minded and I'm like,
okay, that sounds awfully Bob right there.
I'm a little torn on this one.
I think I would go with Bob,
but I think we started to reveal the point of why this was made.
Now we're starting to think about this shit.
That's a Nazi.
All right.
I'm going to go with Bob or you three.
Um, go with Nazi.
I'm gonna go.
You know what?
I'm going with Bob.
Jay astoud to you.
Uh, Bob.
All right.
There are times when I really hate that Jim Crow era laws
ruined the idea of intelligence testing for voting.
Oh, that's Bob.
That's Bob.
We must become I don't know what Jim Crow era laws are.
So I just, I almost think I've read that tweet from him.
It's all race laws in the U S
old ones.
We must become revolutionaries.
We must bypass or shatter existing institutions and make them a new.
The sellouts who can constitute the old elite must be removed forever.
We must constitute a new elite, a daunting goal perhaps,
but the only goal that makes sense.
That's a Nazi.
I'm going with Nazi.
Sounds too good to be Bob.
Like the way it's written.
Yeah, let's wait.
This is again, I'll go with that too.
This is grammar rather than content.
Yeah, I guess there's just too much punctuation for there to be Bob.
What does that tell you?
Bob, Bob, you need to, this shouldn't be a possibility that we're doing this right now.
It's not as damning as it could be.
Cause so far they've all just been, we need to like reorganize society.
Like, yeah, some of them are kind of bad, but I don't know.
I think some of them are pretty bad, but it's not as damning as it could be
when you hear the phrase, does he say this or does a Nazi say it?
Like you could get a lot worse.
Ask them to defend themselves.
Give them that opportunity.
They will give you nothing because they have nothing.
These are the faces of evil.
That's not so hard.
I'm aiming to Nazi.
Wow, that one's tough.
It is tough, but uh, it's too eloquent.
It's, it's a Nazi.
That's four votes for Nazi.
Yeah, we can go with Nazi on that one.
I don't see any moral difference between a suicide bomber and somebody in an F-16 fighter
jet who fires a missile into an apartment complex and then kills 10 to 15 little girls and boys.
Okay, so because F-16s weren't around during the four.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Rags, rags.
Some of them were Richard Spencer quotes.
Yeah.
Oh, uh, yeah.
Oh yeah.
That's true.
Probably Bob.
I don't see much difference there.
In fact, I think the pilot is a greater offender.
He's getting medals while the suicide bomber is sacrificing his life for what he believes in.
Oh god.
Oh no, that's suspiciously close.
Probably Bob.
I'm just saying.
You know what?
I'm willing to be wrong on this.
I'm actually going to go with Nazi, but I could understand.
First time I was like, you know, that's like first time I was like,
oh, you know, that sounds like something Richard Spencer would say.
The crazy thing is that I feel like that slots in perfectly with what I've seen from Bob before.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Going with the gut.
Going with Bob.
I think it's all right.
We will go with Bob on that one.
Okay.
Well, I voted Nazi.
So what's J and Mel going with?
Oh, because I'm on the fence.
I thought you guys were all going Bob.
Because I think that's definitely something Richard Spencer.
Nazi then.
Well, if it's 50 50, do you got to flip a coin?
No, it's not 50.
If if rack sustains, we've got one, two, two for Nazi, one for Bob so far.
Oh, you're going Nazi.
I'm saying for me, it's like, it's like 50 50 for me.
Like, I have no fucking go.
Yeah, I could be wrong on this.
So it's still down to Mel then.
Nazi.
I just don't know.
I just say Nazi.
So we're going with Nazi then, huh?
It's something I think it's Bob.
I think it's Bob.
Really?
Shit.
It's hard one.
Wait, so I feel like I feel like a Nazi is
less like people in the Middle East getting killed than Bob is.
Why?
Who do you think the Muslims sided with in the 40s?
No, no, this is more than a rags.
It could be a Nazi or Richard Spencer.
Yeah, I think it's I think it's Bob.
And I think Richard Spencer is very is very much a non interventionist type.
Wait, are we so what is the final vote on that then?
Do we flip a coin?
No, well, we don't need to.
I said Bob.
I said Nazi.
Nazi.
I said Bob.
What did I say?
I think it's a Bob.
I think you said Nazi.
Okay.
If I said Nazi, you said yes.
We got three Nazis at least, right?
So it's Nazi.
Okay, fine.
Okay, I'm just trying to move on.
No, it's Nazi.
I'm curious to see how that one turns out.
Here's something you should know about me.
I believe that there is almost no such thing as a bad tactic.
Only bad targets.
I know who said that.
That was Bob.
It's pretty Bob.
Going with Bob.
Once we stop rejecting the basic truths of the universe and instead reject theme.
Oh, our civilization will be 100 times more efficient.
Once we rid ourselves of theme, the stars will not be far outside our grasp.
So that could be the words that could be
Republicans.
So I think it's Republicans and it was Bob.
He said that the words that would give away who said a replace with theme, right?
Yeah, so if it was like Jews, then obviously it would be a Nazi.
How does Bob feel about the Jews?
I'm going to go with Nazi on this one.
What are you guys wearing?
I think Bob.
Yeah, pretty Nazi.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
So what were the other votes?
I said Bob, but there were three Nazis there.
So okay.
It's possible to see that this is the world and to be angry about it and to reject false
compromise with the other side without also not recognizing the various complexities and
nuances within movements and communities they condemn.
No, it acknowledges nuance.
Nazi.
Bob wouldn't acknowledge nuance.
Well, like, did you hear there was not a period in sight in that.
That that that's such a bad thing to do like a modern thing.
I think it's I think I think it's someone I think it's the neo-nazi going people don't
understand that there's nuance in my belief.
Where?
Okay.
I'm going to go with Nazi, I think.
Whereas I don't think Bob believes in nuance.
Genuinely, I don't think he believes in.
Wait, what are the other votes?
Bob.
Yeah, I went with Bob.
Two Bobs or Nazi.
Oh, rags the other decider.
Let's do Bob on that one.
No, you fool.
People who have no understanding of the political world around them have no
right to criticize or complain about our superior future.
That sounds like Bob.
And I'm pretty sure we remember him saying that at one point defeatist about the.
Yeah, this is the one thing that stops me on that one is that would be like, well,
I guess he could be saying it even if they were ruining that superior future.
I could have sworn I say Bob tweet that too.
I'm not sure.
Maybe it's Bob then.
But no, I don't don't don't take my word for it.
I wasn't entirely sure about that.
Well, that does strike me as I go with Bob because I don't think the Nazis would start
off kind of soft and understanding like that.
I mean, we've got enough votes for Bob, so we'll just keep going.
History likes to forget that theme often grow to assault true
progress when the backward and mediocre feel left out of it.
Think I'm starting to see the word that he's using to replace some of the obvious tells.
Well, yeah, he said it was going to be theme.
Yeah, so one of the rules, idiot.
God.
Yeah, I wasn't paying attention.
It's just forget that theme often grow to assault true progress
from the back of the mediocre fell left out of it.
I don't know.
What was that one?
I have no idea Bob or a Nazi, Nazi, I just go with a random one because I don't know.
OK, what one more time?
I'm sorry.
History likes to get that theme often grow to assault true progress when the backward
and mediocre feel left out of it.
OK, going with Nazi on that one.
Yeah, OK.
Yeah, OK.
Don't tell me to buy inferior products or hire less capable or qualified workers
to artificially inflate a semblance of performance.
Nobody works for him, right?
I think he works in your boss.
Yeah, I'm going to go with Nazi immediately based on the fact that
the potential of hiring workers.
Clean the folds of my ball.
Do you want to work for the big picture?
The American president increasingly used his influence to create conflicts,
intensify existing conflicts and above all to keep conflicts from being resolved peacefully.
For years, this man looked for a conflict anywhere in the world, but preferably in theme
that he could use to create political entanglements with American economic obligations
to one of the contending sides, which would then steadily involve America in the conflict
and thus divert attention from his own confused domestic economic policies.
Yeah, I'm going to go with Nazi.
Don't go with Nazi on that one.
It also seems longer than that.
Also seems longer than a tweet.
So you can put it in multiple tweets.
Uv Bob doesn't talk for long.
There needs to be a saying that I'm like the fast voice.
Thank God.
There needs to be a separate category of biology
distinguishing theme from proper properly evolved human beings.
That's Bob Bob.
Oh, I would actually go with Bob first, just because I assume theme could be Republicans there.
Yeah, that's absolutely Republicans.
That's 100% Bob.
I that's Bob.
This is fun.
My dream solution.
All the good theme remove themselves from the fray.
Let the failed husk collapse in on itself deprived of all worthy intellects.
That's Bob.
I can't believe I made it.
I like to say intellect.
So I go with Bob.
I really think it's like, see, fucking dictator.
You see, you know, if Bob saw this, right, you know what he would think?
You think, well, yeah, you're removing the word that makes it good or bad.
To hate Republicans than Jews.
They're not people.
Exactly.
When I say vast swathes of humanity are beneath contempt, I speak from knowledge.
It is probably better to hate Republicans than Jews.
But like, don't be like that to anyone.
Yeah, let's don't don't follow Bob.
Yeah, don't be either.
But Republicans is based on values that they can't control.
But like, hating on based on values is better.
You don't have to be a Jew, right?
What do you what?
You can you can racially say the Nazis hated people who were like ethnically Jewish,
not religiously Jewish.
OK, I mean, the interesting part is just that I think they weren't big on the
religion either to be statements being extrapolated, but then removed of the
target. And for some reason, it just seems OK.
It's like, wipe out this selection.
Every time I look at it, I only see pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop.
Everywhere.
Like, you know, thinking about it, the Nazis weren't so bad compared to Bob.
When I say the Nazis ruling, listen, when I say vast swathes of humanity
are beneath contempt, I speak from knowledge.
And some of you dare to give me the side eye for calling these themes less than human.
Oh, that could be Bob again.
I think I think it's eloquent complaining out on Twitter.
Yeah, he's probably complaining about Republicans again.
You know, naturally, yeah, it's probably Bob.
Yeah, I would say Bob is not like the content.
This nation cannot continue letting its future direction be decided by a minority
of at least of its least intelligent, most backward looking people, most backward
looking people like they look backwards in history or something.
Oh, OK.
They look like they look ugly or something.
I see.
So probably Bob.
Yeah.
Yeah, that could be Bob.
The inside chat is literally just Bob.
You know, it's like that's kind of this thing I'm noticing.
You notice like there's a lot of venom in certain words, and that's more Bob than Nazi.
Yeah, I'm happy to go with Bob.
Everyone else?
Yeah, Bob.
Watch the twist, be them all, Bob.
There is, for example, the question of how we came to the preposterous state of affairs
prevailing today wherein we place the destiny of our nation.
OK, this isn't Bob.
I already don't believe that Bob would finish that up.
And it's pretty big, but I already believe from the way that that opening was written
that it's not Bob.
It does sound pretty Nazi.
I did not see that coming.
Yeah, it's Nazi.
I'm going with Nazi.
The theme is the only way forward for genuine human and technological process.
The alternative is the cave.
Bob.
Bob.
Bob.
I want to say this is Bob as well.
It's like it was sounding Nazi, and then we went to the cave.
And this is what happens when you let just like your hatred of a group define your worldview.
Like you blame all problems on group.
Yeah.
But they both do that.
Yeah, that's the point.
That's the point I'm making.
That's why this quiz works so well.
I was going to say why this fucking game works.
Better human beings, upward evolution, theme.
That is our way, the only way to find the answers to the questions that even our greatest
philosophers and thinkers have been unable to answer so far.
Nazi.
Probably Nazi.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
Yeah.
I'm thinking so, yeah.
I'm going to guess that, yeah.
Trump has opened the door to nationalism in this country.
Not American nationalism, but the white race.
Once that door is fully swung open, you can't close it.
I'm going to say Bob, because Richard Spencer would like not be critical of that.
Well, it's not, it wasn't only Richard Spencer.
No, he's not.
No, he isn't critical of it.
It's literally just stating that it's like that it's happened.
Well, didn't Richard Spencer say that he regretted voting for Trump?
Yeah, but this could be before that.
I'm going with movie Bob.
He was like, wait, everyone was saying he was a white supremacist.
What?
This isn't anything like what I voted.
Why are there still black people here?
Blacks are doing better than ever.
This is wrong.
What are you guys going for?
I'm going to go with Bob, because this sounds a bit more on the critical
and I would guess that this is a critical post.
Going with Nazi.
Yeah, I think this would be more likely.
This is critical from Bob than triumphant from Spencer.
But I don't think I don't think Nazis believe that Trump is a Nazi.
Oh, of course not, because they'd be like, wait, what?
No, he's not.
We're Nazi.
That's like, no, that's not anything like it.
I've never seen Trump to the OK hand sign.
Oh, that's true.
Oh, my gosh.
It would be funny if he did.
I've seen Obama doing it, though.
He's a white supremacist.
Oh, my.
Yeah, he did the OK sign.
It's I mean, that's not proof.
I don't know what is.
Socialism as the final concept of duty, the ethical duty of work,
not just for oneself, but also for one's fellow man's sake.
And above all, the principle common good before own good,
a struggle against all partisanism.
And we are aware that in the fight, we can we can rely on no one,
but our own people, I say Nazi Nazi Nazi.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm Nazi.
It is thus necessary that the individual should finally come to realize that his
opinion is of no importance in comparison with the existence of the nation.
He said his not there.
It's Nazi, not Bob.
Bob would say that Bob thinks that women matter.
Okay.
I mean, I'm willing to go with Nazi on this one anyway, because.
Okay.
Yeah, I agree.
Every time a fellow white person asks me if I want to be a minority in my country,
I tell them I'm already a minority in this country.
That's probably not.
Nazi.
That's Nazi.
Bob wouldn't call himself a minority.
Yeah.
No, because he would see himself as like super big brained and smart.
And so he'd consider that a minority.
No, I think he would.
I think he would say it is like devaluing the struggle.
Actually, I'm kind of tempted by rags argument there.
Like the premise is that someone, some Nazi walks up to movie Bob and they're like,
I don't want to be a minority.
And then move Bob responds.
You're already one.
Like I am too.
We're already a minority idiot.
That sort of thing.
Why would he say we are?
Well, he wouldn't say we are.
He would think that from a perspective, Bob probably isn't even thinking about race or
anything here.
He's so focused on his intellect that all that stuff just doesn't even doesn't even
enter into the equation for him when he says something like this.
This is all about Bob and his big galaxy brain.
And he truly does believe that people like him, dare I say, at the Uber mensch,
they are the minority.
Okay.
So what's everyone's thoughts?
I kind of think I can see Bob saying it though.
That's the joke of this whole thing.
Wait.
So what was everyone's, uh, that's bullshit.
And Mel,
oh, every time a fellow person asks me if I want to be a minority in my own country,
I tell them I'm already a minority in this country.
I'll just say, yeah.
Okay.
Go on.
Go on.
Uh, Bob Nazi Bob, Nazi Bob, which is, it's me then.
Uh, Nazi Bob,
who said Nazi Bob?
It can literally go either way.
So I, uh, we've had a lot of Bob ads as recently.
So I'm going to leave it as Nazi.
That's how I decided themes,
often film executives or financial moguls sexually use and abuse women by the
thousands decade after decade and almost always get away with it.
Nobody gets punished.
Nobody goes to jail every now and then someone gets exposed publicly for what
they are, but it all blows over with the practice continues unabated.
That's only half of this quote.
Do you reckon it's Bob?
I think that's Bob.
Talk to us a Nazi.
Really?
I have to not be talking about like, uh, immigrants.
No, I think this is Bob talking about the me too stuff.
Yeah.
Same.
I actually think that Jane might be right.
It might be a Nazi talking about Jews.
Because that's what I was thinking.
No, I think it's a Nazi talking about Muslim immigrant.
Well, no, because they're referencing film executives, financial moguls,
moguls and Harvey Weinstein.
Weinstein in the, in the later sentence.
Interrupted me to say what I was saying.
I think he's, I think he's only got the Jewish last name as a coincidence.
I think this is definitely Bob weighing in on me too.
I think it's a trick question.
And this just coincidentally has been said by both.
I vote Nazi.
What's everyone voting for?
Really?
I thought this is, I think this is clearly Bob.
I think Nazi.
There's got to be Bob going on about me too.
Bob.
Nazi Nazi.
Really?
I'm almost sitting.
The themes in that one is, is Jews.
I could be wrong though.
Almost.
I'm almost certain that themes is Jews.
History will eventually remember theme as a hero.
However imperfect who was failed by the country they tried to save.
Nazi.
Sounds Nazi.
Say that one more time.
History will remember theme as a hero.
However imperfect who was failed by the country they tried to save.
Is this Bob talking about Hillary?
What was Bob talking about Hitler?
Bob talking about Hitler.
I think this is Bob talking about Hillary.
I think it's a Nazi talk about Hitler, but I could, yeah, that could easily be the sneaky thing.
No, but how did Nazi Germany fail Hitler?
Fucking, I don't know.
Ask the person who made this quote.
Because Hillary was failed by the country she tried to save because they didn't vote for her.
Didn't, um, you know, Germany, I'm pretty sure isn't all that big on Hitler anymore.
So I think so.
Oh, shit.
I was wrong.
His name is so hallowed you're not even allowed for fear of offending his spirit.
Exactly.
I think this is definitely, I think this is definitely.
Hmm.
This is Bob talking about him.
Where's Hitler's body?
What happened to it?
I'm curious now.
It's in my pocket.
Get it shrunken down.
Just keeping it warm.
I don't know.
You just feel like.
Put it in your bum.
Last special house?
No.
So wait, so what's everyone going for then?
I say Bob.
I forgot what I did.
Nazi.
I think it was.
I had voted Nazi, but man.
I think I voted Nazi.
Some pretty sound arguments for Bob.
Yeah, I think I think you can make a good argument for Bob.
I'm going to go with Nazi though and just.
I think it's much more likely that Bob would be upset at the country for not voting for her
than a Nazi would say that Germany failed Hitler by losing war
when they fought so incredibly hard.
Yeah.
And that's and that for that for that reason, I'm going to have to go with Bob.
Oh, so that's.
Is that two to three?
Sounds like two to three.
I've never heard it said that the Germans didn't fight hard enough to defend the Germany.
I don't know, man.
I think to become full on Nazi, you probably have to have a few screws loose in the first place.
I don't think so.
No.
No, I don't think so.
I don't think I'd be crazy to be a Nazi.
Screws loose can mean a lot of things, but I mean that I'm what you think.
Every Nazi is a crazy person or do you have reasons for why they justify with?
Yeah, all they need is crazy that they are like they have to be so like unless they've been like
just told that that's the way things are and they've never been exposed to anything else.
I think you have to be pretty crazy to be a Nazi.
No, well, I don't think it's about I don't think it's about insanity.
No, I mean, I wouldn't say that you could.
I wouldn't say that about socialists or communists or Nazis.
Like I don't want to think about religious people.
Yeah, I don't think that about scientists.
Okay, no, to be a Nazi in the modern day, not in the modern day, less so.
Do you really feel that way about Scientology?
Yeah, yeah, kind of.
It's this.
It's I it's it's not the world now.
Yeah, Scientology is the world's fakest religion.
Don't worry, Chad.
Yeah, nowadays, I'd say I guess more so.
But I'm hesitant, especially nowadays, to chalk people's beliefs up to, oh, you're just you're
crazy. Yeah, I think it leads us down to bad. I don't think it's good when we just dismiss
people as being crazy because people feel and believe the things they do for a reason.
Yeah, I don't feel like it does too much harm.
No, I think that I'm not actually referring to a medical illness.
I'm just saying the way that they critically analyze the situation is probably flawed.
Yes.
Yeah, it's certainly flawed.
Yeah, I think they're wrong.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I'm not going to say that it's they're necessarily acting in a way that they don't
believe it's irrational.
That's the thing.
But no one ever believes they're irrational.
Well, sure.
Like that's.
But I don't think that.
Yeah, but it's not because they're crazy or anything.
They don't think the ceiling tiles are trying to eat them.
I think the problem is going on different definitions.
You have to have a very distorted understanding of reality.
Probably, but I think that's that would if I if we go by that definition, like if I say that's
what I mean, when I say crazy, would you agree?
No, because I think before we found out that we lived in a heliocentric universe, make it crazy.
So, well, I'm not saying that Nazis would have been crazy in Germany.
I don't think that's a fair comparison, right?
The information everybody had at the time, that's not a fair comparison to what
like a Scientologist will have to deal with it.
I don't think that if you're a Nazi today, you're crazy.
Like, yeah, I think you are crazy if you're a Nazi.
I don't think so.
I think that you could be heavily indoctrinated.
Yeah, potentially, you can certainly be indoctrinated.
Yeah.
So heavily indoctrinated even make you crazy.
And I think being indoctrinated makes you crazy.
Yeah, one of the two.
And I think our flat earther is crazy.
Yes.
Because I'm not I'm not ready to say that they're crazy.
Yes, I think they're crazy.
I think they're insane.
I think that a lot of them just drop the word crazy because clearly could mean a
lot of things at the same time.
Yeah, I think they're certainly just like Nazis are fucking wrong.
Like someone who says like Joker had no reason to be punched by Thomas Wayne is crazy.
And simultaneously says the Nazi ideology is crazy.
He'd be like two very different levels of crazy.
Depends on what what you mean by crazy.
Yeah, I'll say Hillary.
Yeah, he got pretty loopy.
Hitler was pretty pretty loopy.
Yeah, he was pretty loopy.
He got a fucking screw Lucy.
He's goofy dude.
He was goofy.
Yeah, you know, you can have 100 screws and have one loose.
It's okay.
I mean, you can have terrible beliefs and horrible beliefs and be totally wrong about
things.
But that doesn't mean that you're not applying some level of rationality, even if it's not
complete in total, you could be operating from a different value system.
You could be informed by different history.
You could identify with certain things differently in other ways.
But but I wouldn't say this about anybody just because you have a political position.
I think it's I don't know.
Maybe I'm only speaking for myself here.
Like maybe Jay would go.
Yeah, I know it's a political position.
But I don't think I'm not going to say people are crazy because of a political position that
they hold.
I think it's deeper than that.
It counts as a political position.
It's like, I know.
I just said that does.
Wait, I thought you said it.
Wait, you said it does or it doesn't.
It does.
Yes, Nazi is definitely a political position.
Maybe I don't I don't see it as that.
I'm going to say I'm not going to call people crazy because they have a political position.
Finding out why they think that.
And hopefully, if it's bad, I totally would.
But I wouldn't put as much on it.
Like, so if they were like, you think I'm mentally handicapped, I'd be like,
OK, look, no, I was just saying that I think that that's crazy.
I use the word very softly, we all casual.
Yeah, if that's how we're using it, like it's crazy.
Yeah, it's crazy.
People think the earth is flat, but I don't think that these people are
necessarily crazy.
I'm sure some of them might be.
What you're saying is you don't necessarily think they have mental.
Like, if I actually was convinced that they were mentally impaired,
that would be one of the last things I would assume is that they have mental issues.
Well, no, I would assume I would.
It's not the last thing I would assume, but like, you know, it's not something I get.
Yeah, I suppose I could think of they were abducted by aliens.
And they're sure, but someone was a Nazi.
I would be more inclined to believe the Adam wouldn't assume it immediately.
No, based on clinical mental issues.
No, I don't know.
It's not even something I would think of.
I was like, when I would be diagnosing a communist or a Nazi or a Scientologist or
a flat earth or something like that, I wouldn't even be like, well, are they insane in the brain?
It just wouldn't even occur to me, I guess.
Yeah, do we need to give them how many pills do we need to give him to make him cool again?
Like I would I would arrive at that maybe eventually after I go through
everything based on how they responded to questions and things of that nature.
Like if a flat earther said something like if they brought in to question.
So in just really far out conspiracies and space aliens and interdimensional stuff,
then yeah, I might be like, yeah, you might be a little you might be.
Not all there, but I certainly wouldn't be nearly the first thing I'd consider.
I think I think we're in agreement based on like if we
remove the word crazy for the equation and just by definition,
someone who is a Nazi is not does not necessarily have a clinical disorder,
like, you know, a diagnosable problem with their brain.
Right. We're in agreement about that.
But yeah, there's nothing wrong with your brain in sort of like a mental way.
They are colloquial speak, colloquially speaking, crazy.
Yeah, like, yeah, that fight scene in the movie was crazy.
And wow, this cheesecake was crazy delicious.
Yeah, so you know, that's not the same meaning.
But you know, like, that's that's the way that they're both adjectives.
Nevermind. But you know,
yeah, you ever see the crazies?
Yeah, they're not right.
They're not they're not right.
They're not right, correct.
But it's all like something not right about them.
Like I was like, sure.
I mean, there's I mean, in the same way, I would say that someone who,
sure, if we want to say if there's something not right about them,
and since that I think they're incorrect on political positions, then sure.
And I would extend that to technically everyone who holds a position I don't have by technicality.
Sure. Because I think that all my positions are correct, which is why I have them.
But that's to a more extreme degree than like, you know,
if I was convinced they'd come to their conclusions because of a mental
impairment, I probably wouldn't be like, wow, they're crazy.
I'd be like, oh, shit, they might like actually have, you know, like a problem.
Like, that's probably how I would actually approach that.
Yeah, I'm definitely in the camp that you destroy your enemy if you turn them into a friend.
And I think that the last thing we need to do is make people outcasts.
Well, yeah, but there's a line like,
we're not the people to be befriending Nazis.
I'm not.
What kind of separation?
No, just so we just abandon.
Be nice to them.
Be nice to them and, you know, treat them like human beings to try and help fix them.
Well, I see I see a Nazis tolerate their beliefs in a way.
Like, I think that they've been for some reason convinced of a terrible position.
And I think that their lives and our lives would be better the less of them existed.
So I think in a way, it's kind of in a sense, it is kind of our duty to help them.
Don't you?
Yeah, I agree.
To help them out of that view.
And I think it's just pragmatic that you don't want to be overly combative of anybody to change.
Yeah, because that doesn't that doesn't change hearts and minds just screaming in the face.
I feel like I feel like what I'm doing isn't helping those who have already fallen.
I think it's helping other people not to fall, essentially.
Well, we can you can do that before they kill.
If they have the Nazi ideology and before they go through with anything,
you can convince them, you know, carefully.
I'm much less inclined to believe that random people will become Nazis, especially nowadays,
than I am thinking that I could certainly change a Nazi's opinion.
Especially when I when I get emails from people that tell me that I've
de radicalized them in a certain way or help change their way of thinking and things of that
nature.
Yeah, it can happen.
You just don't want to dehumanize them constantly.
And then that just doesn't help anyone.
Someone's being someone who's crazy is dehumanizing them.
Right.
But just, you know, saying, oh, they just have irrational thoughts constantly and they
just need a couple of pills and they stop believing the way they do.
It's like, I'm just saying pills.
I'm saying you have like pills saying, yeah, they have a rational.
Yeah, I don't think that.
Yeah, I think that you can.
I think they're OK.
Let's go with this.
They're irrational.
I believe they're behaving irrationally.
Yeah, we got there.
I say behaving.
They're thinking irrationally.
I don't know if their behavior is technically.
You're expressing that they're a Nazi.
Anyway, movie Bob's not a very good person.
Shall we continue?
Well, it all started because I was it was like, wouldn't it be irrational to assume
that Germany didn't do everything they could to support Hitler in the fight?
Right.
And same rags that makes videos that just said it's not conducive to be overly combative.
Well, I'm not I'm really doing it more for an audience than a single person
because a single person makes the video.
But hundreds of thousands of people see the see the video.
So that's an aspect of it.
But I think that is time for us to continue with the quiz.
And with that, we're sticking with that.
Also, it's not like I still think that someone could conclude
that Germany didn't do like some some irrational person could consider the
Germany to have failed Hitler in that they weren't 100 percent on board
because there's plenty of people in Germany who worked against him.
Lots of people who weren't Nazis.
No, I mean, actual Nazis who worked against him.
Well, like it would they be Nazis if they worked against him in his goals?
Or maybe they were like they're Nazis.
I suppose I was calling the Nazis as a classification of just just their label
at that point, not like what they actually believe specifically.
But the the point I'm trying to make is that you've got someone could believe that those
very people are the reason that he fell or the World War Two didn't work out for him.
There's going to be somebody out there.
I think it was actually a the.
Yeah, like like the arch actually was I was talking about a book.
So when I was in a stream with Arts and Sargon and Dev and Oozaloo the other day
and someone had asked in a super chat if they recommended any like World War Two books.
And Arch had mentioned one about like older.
I might be remembering this exactly.
Exactly.
But he said something along the lines of older people as things got more and more dire for
Germany, more and more people who weren't proper young soldier men were recruited to help,
you know, defend Germany.
And a lot of them were just old dudes who weren't who had been who were too old to really
buy into all the Nazi stuff.
They were just Germans and they wanted to defend Germany.
And it's a story about them and how they, you know, mixed and melted with a more younger
type of person who might be more ideological about it.
But it's certainly complicated.
As you referenced that someone in all caps and read a book, for fuck's sake.
It's like time.
So I said it was Dev Dev.
Thank you very much.
I couldn't quite remember.
Yeah, basically, I could be I'm certain that either could say it.
The likelihood ordinary men.
I've just been told on Discord.
Thank you for that.
The likelihood of it being movie Bob over a Nazi.
I suppose I think I would agree at this point is more likely to be Bob.
Yeah, I'm sticking with Bob.
Say if it's not long, could you say it again?
Because I've forgotten what it is.
History will eventually remember theme as a hero, however imperfect
who was failed by the country they tried to save.
Yeah, I think that's Bob talking about Hillary after the 2016 election.
Because they didn't vote for her.
Yeah, I think Bob has ever had sex.
I suppose.
Yeah, would a Nazi refer to.
Why did you make me think about?
Why don't you come to my basement apartment and I'm genuinely like
curiously trying to think about it like well.
No, why?
I think that Bob would almost look down at it as a base biological distraction.
No, I always think for the reminder of the book.
I have to book like he certainly masturbates to like himself.
I don't think in the green screen.
I think when he I think when he climaxes, he screams take my seat, even if he's just.
No, no, stop green all over his wall.
That was never paint.
Oof said this segment was a bad idea.
What's the point?
Look, movie Bob's rhetoric is similar to that of racist.
It's like, yes, that was the point.
Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I'm gonna go with Bob.
I think that's a fair choice.
Jay, you go and you stick with Nazis.
Yeah, I'll stick with the Nazis.
Okay.
And metal.
I remember.
Okay.
Well, assuming that that way, if that was true, then the Nazis would have it anywhere.
We have three Bob's already.
So it doesn't matter.
We have three Bob's.
Yeah.
Sorry, the Bob's would have it.
Yeah.
Got feeling right.
It was interesting.
Some people have just been referencing different events, including Operation Valkyrie, which yeah.
Super interesting to learn about what all that was and how it all went down.
I have the book, Ordinary Man.
I have it in my hand right now.
I totally forgot I have it.
You have what?
You mentioned it.
The book Rex just mentioned Ordinary Man.
Yeah, I have that in my hand right now.
Oh my goodness.
I never read it.
I bought it like years ago, but I always forgot about it.
So I just put it on my desk now.
So I actually read a book again in years.
I will never forgive theme for this.
A superior global future was in sight and they threw it away.
Bob, that's Bob.
I go with that.
That's 2016.
Nazis wouldn't have heard of themselves, is they?
Oh, that wasn't something else I was going to say, by the way, was that
theme, however imperfect, was failed by the country tried to save.
I was just thinking, would a Nazi refer to Hitler as imperfect?
Exactly.
Oh, yeah, that as well.
And, you know, referring to Hillary as imperfect, I think, is the fucking
maybe the lowest you can go.
Before you.
Yeah.
Oh, wait, I didn't switch the answer.
That's my bad.
It'll be funny if we get a really low score.
And I know it's like a chat.
I think this is an easy Bob.
The funny thing about whatever happens, if we score low, that means that we,
well, it could be a lot of things, actually.
I guess the worst, the worst we do, though, the more tragic this whole thing.
I think it's tragic no matter what, because we would have attributed Bob
to Nazis and Nazis to Bob.
And if we were right on everything, that's not good either.
It's just all bad for Bob.
It looks bad, but the wronger we are, the funnier it is.
I suppose, yes.
Can't tell.
Yeah.
And that is really the only possible response to that question,
because this film doesn't even bother to attempt to provide
any form of plausible deniability.
That is shameless celebration of violence by white men
against a society that has abandoned them.
Joker is a love letter to mass shooters.
Bob.
I would guess Bob, yeah.
Having trouble thinking about how it could be anything else.
Yeah, I don't know what neo-Nazis.
The fact that makes me think it's a bait and switch and it's true.
I don't know what the problem, I'm trying to think,
going through Joker, if I'm looking at from an alt-right perspective,
what would they have against it?
Black women.
He kissed a black woman.
Joker hates black women.
Like, I don't hate it.
Because they don't laugh at his jokes.
Let's see.
Miscegenation.
I know that word now, because of the bullshit.
Yeah, I think that's a Bob one.
That's Bob.
The nation I love and thought was heading in the right direction is failing,
and I can only blame the ignorance of my fellow countrymen.
I don't think Bob would say countrymen.
Yeah, I was going to say countrymen because it sounds like a Bob word.
Yeah, that's a Nazi.
I don't think Bob identifies with like,
I don't think Bob would ever say my fellow countrymen.
I'd say, yeah.
He's like these idiots who occupy the same nation as me.
They breathe the same air.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
We're saying it's probably a Nazi because he talks about people as if they're human.
Yeah, I feel like a Nazi would be nicer.
No, no, yeah.
The Bob.
Certainly more camaraderie amongst Nazis than Bob, I would say.
There is a lot of, among everyone is below Bob.
Yeah, because of the Nazis, there's like this, a definite in-group.
But with Bob, it's, he goes it alone in such a clear way so often,
he hoists himself up on his pedestal.
He thinks the left is in-group, but they hate him.
Like, it's tragic.
He thinks his head hates him.
The fact that no one wants to hear is, wait.
The fact that no one wants to hear is this, not everyone.
I'm sorry.
Maybe I'm getting really old.
I'm going to copy and send you it while I, the fact that no one.
The fact that no one wants to hear this.
Oh, the fact that no one wants to hear is this, not everyone gets to win.
Even if you yourself aren't a theme, theme is a superior way forward into a better future for
a better world.
Bob, I'm going Nazi.
Going Nazi.
What could theme be?
That's a good point.
Even if not everyone gets to win, even if you yourself aren't a,
like everyone would be like, not everyone gets to win.
Even if you yourself aren't a Nazi, German.
Then eugenics is a superior.
Oh yeah.
Then eugenics is a superior way forward for a better future and a better world.
Yeah.
Cause those two themes could be different words.
Yeah, they could be.
Yeah.
I think, okay.
Bob possibly conceding that he can't win at something is just.
No, he's not conceding that he can't win.
Saying that other people don't get to win.
The person who's saying this is saying other people don't get to win because they are the best,
I think.
Not everyone gets to win.
Even if you yourself aren't a loser.
Even like they're saying, even if you yourself aren't the in group,
our group's ideology is the best way forward.
So you're just going to get put to the sidelines if you're something else.
That's the quote.
I think this is trying.
I think this, this could be also Bob speaking towards people who don't see themselves as
losers, but saying that even if you don't see yourself like that, that doesn't mean you win.
That doesn't mean you've won.
That doesn't mean you're in a good position.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
Think of yourself as a loser, but this one's tough.
Go with Nazi.
I think it's, I think the word is like, even if you, you, yourself,
going Nazi on this, I don't think it, I don't think a Nazi would appeal to someone who isn't
an Aryan like the Nazis have it.
I'm going to, I'm going to just make sure we're moving forward with like a third of the way
through this.
No, this could be Nazis appealing to Germans who aren't part of the Nazi party.
Something that you might not feel like a loser, but you don't.
Let's just go with Nazi then.
So yeah, I think this could be, I think this is go both ways.
I think this is going to go so far, but I'm going to go with Nazi.
Yeah.
I've always felt in some way apart from theme, but never so much as right now.
How can I share DNA with these monsters?
Oh, I want to go with Bob.
Yeah.
This was like after the election.
Every of the worst ones we assume is after the election.
So talking about just like homo sapiens, like I'm the same species as these Republicans,
these moderates, these.
It's a shame that we leave the abilities of the nation at the mercy of citizens who
act with these abilities lightly and as if they were playing a game.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
Too eloquent.
Yeah, I'll have to go with Nazi.
Freedom of expression is nice, but it becomes a factor of corruption and corruption,
if not excised within the limits set by the interest of the nation.
Nazi.
Bob doesn't care about the interests of the nation.
He cares about.
We're coming out of there.
A little bit.
Yeah.
No, Bob doesn't care about the interests of the nation.
He would never talk about the nation.
That's Nazi speak.
Yeah, I think Bob views the nation is almost like, like, oh, I have to be like,
I just the way the world is.
I just unfortunately have to be in this nation with these people around me.
Yeah.
Nazi.
Nazi it is.
Theme are not motivated by the desire to defend a scientific idea or to spread this idea,
but by the bigotry of opinion, idea or belief.
Bob.
No, this is really eloquent, though.
Yeah, I'm thinking Nazi on this one.
Would Nazi say bigotry?
Maybe a modern Nazi.
Yeah, that's what I'm thinking.
We have to keep remembering.
There are still like, you know.
I probably have a modern Nazi then.
So wait, so what's everyone's votes?
Nazi.
Nazi.
Nazi.
Wait, what was yours, Mel?
Bob.
Nazi Bob.
What was yours, Jay?
Nazi.
Oh, fuck.
Okay.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
I don't I don't know.
I don't know if Bob would put it this way.
I feel like it should be more clunky if it's Bob.
Yeah.
A theme were given a choice to evolve and become a superior theme
or stagnate and remain inferior.
The majority chose wrong.
Oh, my God.
Going with Bob.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't believe this is what I mean.
Like, this is the part of it that's shocking.
It's just like, I guess that was Bob,
but I can't believe that Bob said that.
It's like, whoa, but it all makes sense.
Rotten soul.
I hope Bob finds out that this has happened.
In those days, I was stupid enough to try and enlighten
theme about the meaninglessness of their beliefs,
though I could show them the danger of theme,
but I was getting to the getting the opposite result.
Nazi.
I don't know.
I'll post it for you guys.
In those days, I was stupid enough to try.
Bob would never acknowledge that he had a Nazi.
I think I'm going to go in Nazi as well.
What was the Nazi, but it's close.
It's just I think it's the grammar that's giving it.
It is sometimes.
I mean, yeah, we've gone off grammar and punctuation a lot.
No, I'm just fucking and the fucking venomous words that he uses.
I'm here.
Gut reaction rags.
In those days, I was stupid enough to try and enlighten theme
about the meaninglessness of their beliefs,
though I thought I could show them the danger of theme,
but I was getting the opposite result.
In fact, I could absolutely see what what because Nazis aren't
based on other people's beliefs.
I mean, no, actually, it could be a neo-Nazi talking about like liberal.
Well, and does Bob really strike you as somebody who will talk to someone and try to.
No, he's talking to anyone.
This is past tense.
Yeah, maybe he's used to.
I don't know.
I'm not sure I buy that.
Think that could be reason to it, essentially.
I could absolutely see Bob because it's essentially going.
These people can't be reasoned with.
They need genocide.
The Republican like seems very much.
Yeah, like this is the guy who would absolutely Thanos snap half the country away.
Oh, he said that, didn't he?
I'm going to go with Bob on this one, but I could see it being a Nazi as well.
I could totally be enough.
Oh, no, I don't know.
I think just based on the grammar, it's the Nazi though.
I don't know.
I think Bob has his moments of, you know, grammatically.
Statistically, he's not most of the stuff he says is an incorrect map.
So is this the same guy that did that Efap quiz of?
I can't remember if that was the same guy.
I don't think that was the same guy as far as I remember, but it could be.
Adam Hilt.
I thought I could show them the danger of theme could be the danger of Trump.
As in movie, Bob saying that, right?
Possible.
Bob was too far gone by the time Trump was.
Yeah, he surely he would surely he would still sell himself as being like a savior
or like tried to help us.
We're saying this is like a lie.
Possibly is movie.
How do you imagine he tried to argue?
I think actually, yeah, actually, yeah, thinking that this is a lie makes it seem a lot more
plausible.
Bob said it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I used to be stupid enough to think these people could be turned.
But that's why I don't convince nobody no more because they're all stupid.
I tried because Bob likes to try and justify the things that he does by often being in a
very malicious and unfeeling way.
Bob sees himself as a Mary Sue.
My flaw was that I was too good.
He tried to have it.
He tried.
I'm going to go with Bob on this.
Yeah, all right.
I've changed my mind.
It's Bob.
I'm not for the correct action to be overridden in favor of the will of the stupid just because
they happen to occupy more space.
That's Bob.
That's Bob.
As for democracy, I believe in results and long term vision systems.
Not so much in this regard.
I'm closer to a technocrat.
Technocrat.
I haven't seen him use that word, but I could believe he said this.
I think is what it means.
Hang on.
Yeah, I think that I think that super forward thinking future Bob would definitely talk
about technocracy.
Yeah, I think that's Bob.
All right.
I think technocrat is one of the three words that Bob knows.
Hey, let's leave massively important geopolitical decisions with potential global impact up to
a public vote, said no one smart.
This is a really bad idea.
Your fellow theme failed you.
I know the feeling.
Yeah.
OK, I guess.
Yeah, Bob often talks about how terrible the voter base is and how stupid they are.
He laments he has to abide by their decisions.
Theme cannot be won over, saved or reasoned with.
They need to be defeated along with their values and political power.
Nazi.
Yeah, Nazi.
You don't think that could be Bob?
It could be, but I think Bob would say eliminated.
Yeah, but I but I think that this is I think this is a Nazi.
Illiminated.
Is this could easily like we've been thinking about all of these.
If we got to think of all like the nuances of speech and in terms of what they might say
nowadays, but that could probably be an old quote.
And we've just been our mindset has been changed as of lately.
I am still going to go with Nazi on this one.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think the Nazis have it.
Most people don't know what is best for them.
And in taking actions under the assumption that they do often mess things up for us.
Yeah, I think that's Bob.
Oh, yeah, it's quite it's too eloquent word though.
That's the only thing.
Yeah, but it's not it's it's eloquent, but it's not fancy.
Jay, what if it turns out all the ones you've been saying are like too eloquent
to not be written by him?
How are you going to feel?
I mean, it's eloquent in the sense that it's a simple sentence.
What I'm waiting for is for this test to turn up all Bob.
And we were all duped.
They're all Bob.
The trick is that it was all sometimes I am dumbfounded.
I don't know what amaze me more, the abundance of the verbiage or the artful
way in which they dressed up their falsehoods.
I hate them.
Nazi.
Yeah, I'm going to go with Nazi on this.
Nazi.
Yeah, because Bob would never refer to his enemies as eloquent or, you know,
all that.
Yeah, no, everybody's stupider than Bob.
Yeah, Bob wouldn't Bob would never pay them that kind of a backhanded compliment.
Wait, the superior future of the United States is technological and theme.
Until then, a lot of noise.
Bob, I guess Bob is going to say Bob because that whole technocrat thing.
Yeah, it fits his technocrat profile.
It doesn't fit his I don't think he thinks that it's actually going to happen.
I think he thinks that like everyone is stupid and sabotaging it for him.
Yeah, he fancies himself like he's he envisions himself in the same way that a lot of
modern day revolutionaries envision things where they're where they're going to be at the top.
They're going to be card carrying party members.
They're not going to be the ones working in fields.
You know, they fancy themselves in these privileged positions.
And I think Bob especially really does think that he thinks that this one's Bob.
Yeah, I think he's going to be one of the technocratic elites.
Yep, so Bob.
So long as there are employees who attack social understanding and have wrong ideas of justice
and fair play, it is not only the right but also the duty of their employee to protect
their general interests against the greed and unreasonableness of the individual.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
Nazi.
No, no, no.
Yes, I condemn democracy as it currently exists in the country,
which is quite anachronistically still called by the name United States of America.
I think that's Bob.
Using those big stupid ass words.
Here's a nice picture to mark the halfway point.
The following picture includes major spoilers for hell.
View at your own risk.
I want to see it.
Oh, my, that's not a flattering photo.
I don't know if it's actually him or not.
I just oof.
I just oof.
Okay, let me see it.
Within my lifetime, one of these theme are going to make their own country institute
basically socialism to streamline the economy and act like they invented something totally new.
Oh, that's him.
Wait, do you think the pictures?
The pictures.
What do we think everyone?
I'm thinking Bob.
I don't know.
I got to make their own country.
This is what a feminist looks like poor feminists.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
I think I might have to just defer to the group decision on this one.
I say Nazi.
Yeah, is is Bob openly for socialism?
Oh, probably it wouldn't surprise me.
I yeah, I don't know.
I don't think that I don't think that the idea of that would appeal to him much.
I think he'd be like, I think he's more of a he wouldn't phrase it this way,
but he's more of a technocrat.
This doesn't quite feel like something you'd say to me, but I'm not a Bob historian.
Yeah, I mean, as much as Bob takes too much of a shit on the blue collar people of the world
to give, you know, he doesn't give me socialist vibes.
Yeah.
Yeah, to be a socialist, you have to believe in the good of the people,
I think, and Bob doesn't.
Yeah, Bob is definitely not.
Definitely not.
Not that.
So we good with Nazi?
Okay.
Theme and theme represent two distinctly divergent
iric, iric-concilable, iric-concilable?
You can't read it.
Iric-concilable.
Oh, yeah.
Iric-concilable.
Paths of societal development, and they are in conflict.
One will defeat the other, and there will be either a future for their theme,
a future for theme, or they will not.
Very dramatic.
Nazi.
I did not see that coming.
I could see Bob saying it, but I think I'm heading toward the Nazi.
One more time, please.
Theme and theme represent two distinctly different divergent
iric-concilable paths of societal development, and they are in conflict.
One will defeat the other, and there will either be a future for theme, or they will not.
Go with Bob.
Which was everyone's take?
Nazi.
Nazi.
I'll go with Nazi.
I think I'm going with Nazi as well.
Okay.
I could see Bob doing it, but, you know.
Hell, yes.
America should confiscate the wealth of millionaire traitors.
We're not going to allow it to be used to erode the rights of our fellow Americans anymore.
Oh, that's odd.
I think it's Bob, but it's like it's a close one, because it's-
Wait a minute.
He said fellow Americans.
I don't know, yeah.
I don't know.
I think I'd go with Nazi on that one.
Nazi.
Me too.
Yeah, Nazi.
I'm going to go with the Nazi.
People like this are the base level source of the soul sickness that holds our whole
society back from becoming the better world that the intelligent and worthwhile theme deserve.
Bob.
Bob.
Bob.
It'll be great when this is over, and I can go back to despising backwards human filth
threatening our future without hearing their bullshit regurgitated by themes or the media
telling me I should feel sorry for them.
Bob.
Bob.
Bob.
That's so hot though.
Dude.
That's Bob as fuck, dude.
Human filth.
We assume it's Bob immediately.
Yeah, dude.
He hates everyone but himself.
Yeah, but like Nazis hate Jews.
That's like the thing.
I understand that, but like human filth.
But it's Bob, Jay.
It's such a Bob thing to say.
I don't think Bob would call them human.
Pfft.
The logic here is astounding.
Oh my god.
I thought we were going to creep on this one.
To be called human filth is a level above what Bob would say.
Still going with Bob on this one.
Yeah, the Bobs have it with that one.
Each of us must decide just how far we will let the situation in America deteriorate into
backwardness and theme before we decide to take action to correct it.
I urge you to become involved for your children's sake if not your own.
Nazi.
I'm going to go with a Nazi thing.
Yeah, I'm going to go with Nazi.
All right.
Sure.
Some of the most dis-
Because Bob doesn't seem interested in the next generation.
Some of the most dishonest people-
Oh, that's a great show.
I'm going to care a lot about that in the next generation.
Some of the most dishonest people can be identified by the use of the phrase
war never solved anything.
Of course it does.
If they were honest, they would say theme never solves problems.
Nazi.
Oh, it's Nazi.
I think Nazi, yeah.
Marriage must-
I'll be properly in war.
Oh, do you?
You mentioned Bob serving.
You mentioned Bob serving in like a war.
Soldier Bob.
Soldier Bob.
Marriage must indeed be re-founded on a much more radical level than it
than that imagined by the egalitarian religious right and constitutionalists.
I hated reading that.
That was such a salad.
What the fuck was that?
Yeah, actually Bob.
Yeah, I'm going to go with Bob.
The only reason to fear theme is if you are a weak and or worthless person who can only
hope to hold social power by theme.
A truly superior individual would not resist an evolving world.
I'm trying to definitely figure out what theme might be.
Didn't that be Bob?
Because-
Going with Nazi.
Yeah.
That's a tough one.
I don't know.
I think I'll just kind of go with whatever anyone else decides.
I can see that one going both ways really easily.
Yeah, I kind of want to see on the fence as well.
So it'll be between the remaining three.
Nazi, Nazi, if not the state.
All right.
Sorry, Jay.
That's a Nazi.
The US is only going to stagnate until people get on board with the idea that
theme as a mindset place and demographic needs to be aggressively beaten,
constrained and neglected to the point of erasure by any means available.
We must do this if our people are going to progress at all.
Oh my god.
That sounds pretty bobby.
I mean, I think that might actually just cross over the line that Bob wouldn't say that.
But like, like he wouldn't.
Optics wise.
Say it one more time.
The US is only going to stagnate until people get on board with the idea that
theme as a mindset place and demographic needs to be aggressively beaten,
constrained and negated to the point of erasure by any means available.
We must do this if our people are going to progress at all.
That's our people.
Shit.
I feel like the hour.
Bob wouldn't say our people.
Nazi it is.
Damn it.
It's Nazi.
You're gonna feel like it's more on the collectivity side.
It'd be funny if we're wrong on that.
I don't think that anyone is less than human, just less than me.
Actually, no, actually, that could be Bob.
It's not a Hitler quote, Bob.
That's only half of the quote you guys are outraged.
The other half is don't get upset.
Well, it says don't give upset, but I think supposed to be don't get upset about it.
Tons of people are beneath me.
Bob.
Oh, did he really like tweet that?
Holy shit.
What he said.
I don't think any people are below human.
I'm like, obviously, Bob believes some people are below humans.
I think yeah.
No, this is him trying to like save face in a way.
He's like, no, no, they're human.
They're just definitely beneath me.
They're not human.
They're just humans.
Yeah.
I can believe it's Bob, but holy fuck.
Maybe he would say that one's a joke.
He's apparently said some of his tweets are definitely jokes.
I'm always like, which one?
Yeah.
He's like, oh, that's news to me.
At a certain point.
At a certain point, you have to become comfortable with the idea that huge swaths of people are
so theme and theme that they barely qualify as human.
Bob.
Anytime someone's not allowed to be human.
I want to say Nazi.
Yeah.
Like Nazis, Nazis, I think, treat some people as inhuman.
Like, you know, I think that's something they might know.
I think they would straight up say some people are subhuman.
Bob is just like, oh, no, no, no, they're barely.
Don't worry.
I said barely human guys.
They qualify in the they can speak English.
Nazis would say subhuman.
Yeah.
Because Bob's trying to like shockingly Bob knows that he can't get banned from Twitter.
That would really hurt.
So he's trying to not get banned from Twitter.
You're trying to like a squeeze in a technicality or something.
Something like that.
All theme, I'm sorry.
All theme are unsalvageable, failed humans, reject them and push them out.
Bob, Nazi, Nazi theme could be Jews.
No, but like, I don't think I don't think Nazis see Jews as failures.
I think not like I don't think Nazis think that Jews had an opportunity to fail.
They just think they're like, they should their shit.
Anyway, I'm still going.
Um, like, you don't have to like fail to be a Jew from a Nazi's perspective.
You just are a Jew.
Uh, yeah, I would, I would say Bob on this one.
Yeah, I'm going with Bob.
Um, I think I would settle on Bob if I had to choose, but I'm, I'm also okay with being
on the fence on this one.
Yeah, I'm, I'm pretty okay with being on the fence on most.
That's the point of the quiz.
So if we've got Nazi, Nazi, Bob, Bob and fence,
I guess I would have to pick Bob because I said I'm slightly more toward Bob than I am
toward Nazis.
Go for it.
Very well.
Normal people are trash.
No one that ever mattered was normal.
Exceptional elite people build and drive the world and get called theme for their trouble.
Bob.
Bob.
Pretty Bob.
Imagine how.
I don't think Bob would use the word elite.
I think Bob sees the elites as a bad thing.
I, well, the elite are bad if, as long as the elite isn't me.
Yeah.
But Bob thinks he don't, I don't think Bob thinks that he is the elite.
I think Bob thinks he's like, I don't think so.
Perfect.
I don't know, man, elite.
I think he's, he uses the word elite to describe like the people in power who are evil.
Well, yeah, it depends on what kind of word they're using that for.
Because elite is often referred to the people who are like the most powerful on earth,
but he could be referring to just the best people.
What does everyone else think?
Bob.
I'm going to go with Bob.
I'm going to go with Bob.
You're cool.
I was going to go with Bob as well.
I'm sorry, Jay.
The whole chat is still just Bob.
They have the answers to the quiz already.
They could have got that right out.
So yeah, you never know who's actually got the answers or not.
Imagine how annoying the people harassing me would be
if I could bring myself to think about, think of them as humans.
Bob.
I'm thinking Bob.
Yeah.
Bob.
Twitter harassment.
Could be an answer though.
That's the thing.
If theme prevails as the driving force of the 21st century,
you can kiss everything from space travel to disease cures.
Goodbye.
That's Bob.
Space travels.
Yeah.
It's beb.
I'm yawning.
Time for another drink.
It is necessary for human evolution that the individual should work with the spirit of
sacrifice in favor of the common good.
We should not be influenced by the terrible opinions of those idiots who pretend are no better than theme.
Bob.
Go say Bob.
Could be a Nazi.
That could be a Nazi, no.
We've had a lot of Bobs recently.
It's getting too hard.
It can't all be Bob, surely.
It's very indistinguishable.
The individual should work with many of these.
Guys, can we get something in the chat other than Bob?
I just, I'd like to see that right now.
I'm going to go with Nazi for this one.
I want a Bob counter.
I'll get it.
That would be so high.
It's got to be implemented after the stream as well, because if it was
during the stream, then people would just say Bob on purpose.
Oh, Longshanks reckons it's a Nazi.
What do you guys say everyone put them for?
So Bob.
I don't know.
You know, spirit of sacrifice in favor of the common good.
I feel like that's not something Bob would say.
Whoa, common good.
That's Nazi.
Sorry.
Sorry.
I didn't get that part.
All right.
I guess Nazis have it.
Is it okay to dehumanize people because they are theme?
Did we forget this at some point?
Bob.
Did they not have theme when growing up?
Oh, it is okay to talk about women.
I think it's Bob.
Yeah.
He could be talking about all kinds of things.
I don't think a Nazi would use the word dehumanize.
I feel like a Bob would dehumanize somebody for cutting in line.
Right.
Right.
You fucking troglodyte.
Stop treating these theme like people.
Theme are not redeemable and not worth redeeming in the first place.
They are the justly forgotten remnants of an inferior world
that we've evolved beyond an escape.
That's got to be Bob, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There are only two possibilities for theme.
People won't choose the party of compromises forever.
There can be no compromise.
There are only two possibilities, either victory for us
or annihilation of the future and the victory for them.
I heard us.
That's Bob.
That's not Bob.
Sorry.
I think that's a Nazi, yeah.
Yeah, I think this one's a Nazi.
Fair enough.
There can be no unprovoked violence against a theme.
The sole aim and focus of their philosophical existence is violence.
If you take up that identity, you've already declared violent intent.
Anything done in response is just varying levels of self-defense.
That would be Bob.
I don't think Nazis believe that Jews are inherently violent.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think that would be about Muslims.
Still going with Bob.
You reckon, Rags?
I'm going to go with Nazi on this one.
I see it being Nazi, by the way.
I'm going to leave it with Bob.
I have a feeling he's referring to Republicans and maybe healthcare.
Fuck, dude.
This is actually what it feels like to take an examine.
Yeah, I know, right?
All of our homework was watching movie Bob videos.
I see what you didn't prepare.
Morals are made up by an adult old, sorry, they're made up by adult old men who think
they can talk to clouds and value is subjective.
We should prefer knowledge wisdom and wisdom too.
Yeah, Bob, Nazis wouldn't say talking to clouds.
That's a Bob.
Bob would, it's because he said old men, demonizes old men.
Yeah, he does.
He's going to get up there eventually.
Nazis don't specify men, though.
Um, I joined the theme party because I'm a revolutionary,
not because of any ideological nonsense.
Nazi.
Nazi, yeah.
Yeah, Nazi.
Money stinks of capitalist democracy.
Money has made slaves of us.
Money is the curse of mankind.
It destroys everything great and good.
Every dollar is sticky with sweat and blood.
I'm going to say Nazi.
Yeah.
Did you know that Nazis are socialists?
Yeah, but the thing too, he just seemed like he cared about a collective,
which once again, Bob would never do.
Lenin is the greatest man second only to Hitler,
and that the difference between communism and Hitler's ideology is very small.
Nazi.
It's not.
I mean, maybe this one wasn't, this one's supposed to have Thebes, maybe.
Someone just.
Okay.
Someone in the chat just said, Bob, it frick.
Robert Frick.
Oh, Jesus.
Somebody get, well, you know, we got to see in memes now.
We need to redefine the concept of democracy so that people of intelligence and reason
can step in when theme make a bad decision.
That's Bob.
I would guess Bob on that one.
Yeah.
Conspiracy theories are absurd and childish,
but they demonstrate that the entire concept of democracy is stupid
because the great masses of people will believe any sort of total gibberish if it makes them feel good.
Um, I'm going to say Bob on that one.
Yeah, I would go with Bob.
Oh, it could be a Nazi though.
Well, that's the point of this whole thing.
One or the other here, of course.
Thank you, Jay, man.
Uh, fortunately demographics are squeezing these people out of having a say.
It's just not happening fast enough.
If we don't do something, they will mess it up for us before they can be removed
and rendered irrelevant.
I was serious, but he's got people in quotation marks.
It's gotta be Bob, right?
Absolutely, Bob.
That that's all that I'm being bought for me.
Cyberpunk 2077 appears to be a full Nazi game.
These are the same people who did the Witcher series,
which was based on Polish mythology and basically a Nazi game.
I don't even know where to put that in general.
I guess that's Bob.
Oh, that could be anything that could be like, yeah, it's a Nazi game.
Exactly.
They could they couldn't been at a stick that could have been a disparaging term or encouraging one.
So I think it's Bob.
I I'm going to abstain.
I have no fucking clue.
Just because.
Okay, I'm going to I'm going to say Nazi.
We got two Nazis, one Bob.
There wasn't there wasn't enough.
There wasn't enough discussed in there for the Nazi mentions.
I don't know.
That could be an inflection thing.
Chat chat as a change of event seems to believe it's Bob.
What really?
A few like a minute or two ago, they were
decided one is a Nazi.
I'm I'm going with Nazi.
I'm still going with Nazi on this one.
It does seem like if I saw him tweet that I would be confused for a while.
But that kind of is the experience of looking at Bob's tweets all over time.
Yeah, that makes it more likely to be him.
A full Nazi game.
These are the same people to the which series which is based.
I think I guess I think Bob, how many who are Bob?
I think it was two to.
Yeah, I think this is Bob.
I think I think it's because you know how like you're less understanding of an ideal.
I think Nazis would understand Naziism well enough to know that Cyberpunk 2077 isn't a Nazi game.
The other thing I worry about is whether or not Richard Spencer is trolling in this one.
It's just to make people upset.
Yeah, it'll be interesting to find out some of these, I guess.
I'm being as calm and decent as I can under the circumstances,
but I'm as close to my last straw as I can get with trying to seem redeemability,
see redeemability in the worst of humanity.
Bob?
Election night, maybe?
That's Bob.
Bob on election night.
The rehabilitation of terrible people is a nice thought,
but it's grounded in concepts of empathy that are often misplaced
and the increasingly outdated prospect that broken bad eggs
can be reconfigured to perform some soci-
It's a social, social-
Bob!
Socially.
Socially useful.
I know, I fucked up.
I'm concerned about sociality and there was not a period for a while.
See, there's loads of words you could invent when you look at that one, I swear.
I might be very tired, but I'm fine.
That I can totally, you can't have my keys.
Wait, so what do we vote for this one?
Bob?
Oh yeah, going with Bob on that one.
I guess everyone said Bob, yeah.
I found that a closed fist to-
Oh, sorry, wait.
Oh, it is that.
I found that a closed fist to be a solid place to start.
It's a bit clunky.
But there is plenty of variety beyond that.
At the end of the day, there are just bones and meat,
and sufficiently cowed masts will stifle before you have to break any of that.
Yeah, it sounds pretty bobby.
I could be a Nazi.
I feel Nazi on this one.
I think this is Bob.
I swear I saw this on Twitter at some point.
If it was a Bob tweet, they would have fixed the grammar.
Bob fixed something?
That would have finally made a mistake.
The author of this quiz said they'd-
But, well, it's fine.
Oh, the author of the quiz?
Okay, fair enough.
So how many people go in Bob again?
It was three, was it two?
I said Nazi.
I'm going Bob.
Nazi.
Oh, I'm Nazi as well, so that's three Nazis.
Really, okay.
Democracy is a failed system
because the masses are not capable of making informed decisions about-
I already want to say Bob.
Yeah, me too.
Bob.
Socialism isn't the problem.
It has a problem.
Namely, that its primary proponents are theme.
Socialism has a problem.
And its primary proponents are-
Surely, oh, I don't know.
Well, they're both-
I don't know if Bob is a socialist.
Nazis are socialists, apparently.
Right.
I don't think neo-Nazis are-
Of course.
It seems to me that they, like, Nazis wouldn't really
bring up the weaknesses of socialism.
Unless they were trying to make it into a particular group of people with a problem.
Right?
Maybe.
I'm fully just coin flip on this one.
Yeah.
Okay, I'm going with Bob on this one.
Oh, that's a tough one.
That's a Nazi.
I was going to go with Nazi myself.
Fucking hate Nazis, man.
Rags J, are you both abstaining?
Yeah.
Rags of silence tells me everything I need to know.
I just don't know.
It's thinking.
Is it the duty of properly evolved humans to prove that we are not theme
or the worthless trash people who support them?
Bob.
Bob.
Yeah.
We, though.
Not Bob.
I think Bob used the word we.
Okay, hang on.
Say that one more time.
It kind of got a little jumbled.
It is the duty of properly evolved humans to prove that we are not theme
or the worthless trash people who support them.
You felt it could be a Nazi.
I think that's Bob.
I feel like worthless trash people is a more modern.
Oh, I don't know.
Yeah, Bob.
All right.
The argument could be made that the theme vision of progress rooted so heavily in romantic
idealization.
The pre-mechanization slash pre-digital working class is itself somewhat dated
and hardly revolutionary anymore.
I'm not really married to this idea.
My revolution is my own.
I think it's Nazi.
I think I'm more toward Nazi than I am to Bob on this one.
Kind of have to agree there.
Yeah.
We'll stick with Bob.
I mean, Nazi.
Sorry.
We'll stick with that.
It's like it's like it was at a Freudian slip and you're like,
of course it was.
At some point, it has to become all right to admit that there are too many human beings
at this point.
People think that it is wrong to propose a solution to this problem,
but this every life is sacred belief is bullshit.
Oh, I thought it was a Nazi.
I thought it was a Nazi right up until he Thanos at the end.
And I was like, oh, no.
I think Bob is too smart to actually talk about killing people in the Bible.
But he said he would with the Thanos class.
Yeah, I don't think I don't think less people is a Nazi thing.
Especially the mere people.
But the thing with Bob, though, is the thing with Bob,
though, is he wants less people for sure, but specific ones.
He wants to get rid of, you know, so I think this is applicable to him.
Let me check with Chad.
Yeah, it's Bob.
The main thing that the right has in common with the left is the appeal to losing end of progress.
Real progress, societal evolution to a better future,
offers those worth it.
Ascendance.
I think that's supposed to be those with it.
Offers those with it.
Ascendance beyond obsolete tradition.
Those who don't measure up retreat into bitter envy.
I don't even know what that means.
I think Nazi.
Oh, I was saying that's Nazi.
I think that's Nazi.
Rags.
That's bullshit.
Gonna go.
Fuck.
Gonna go fuck.
Yeah.
Um.
Let me in.
I'm trying to fuck.
That's a reference to a man.
DJ man is okay.
I'm sorry to keep making you do this one more time, please.
Can you pull the stream up at this point?
Yeah, that's a no.
That is the newest one.
I just I my only thing going with that is just that.
There's just no big sort of giveaway.
There is a Bob to me.
Nazi.
I mean, he could say it, but I think a Nazi said it.
Someone to judge is at me.
You're like, Hey, some of these are my quotes.
Copy strike.
All right.
I'm gonna gonna go with Nazi on this one.
Yeah, sure.
The Nazis have it.
Just the future.
Leave me be.
The future belongs to those with the imagination and will to
think and act on a planetary scale.
The dialectic isn't nationalism versus globalism.
Obviously, the nationalists will lose and it won't be close.
The question is what kind of globalist will determine the future of life on this planet.
The battle has always been theme versus theme.
Bob.
I think Bob.
Yeah, because I assume in Bob's universe where everybody's uploading their consciousness to
creepy robots or whatever on Mars, he would assume that it's a global faction of Earth
at that point, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In the future, ideally, Earth is much more united under whatever he believes that the
perfect ideal humanity is.
United under Bob.
And Bob we trust, right?
I'm not a communist precisely because it's proven untenable,
but it's a morally and intellectually sound philosophy on paper.
Okay.
That would be Bob.
I don't think a Nazi would ever speak well of communism.
Yeah.
I was going to say, how would it work with a Nazi saying that?
I guess the Bob.
Sure.
At some point we need to stop treating stupid as functionally different from evil.
Oh my God.
That's Bob.
I think this is Bob.
Yeah.
It's funny that it's so funny that he's got that as a quote when that was kind of our
conversation earlier, but in a slightly different way, right?
Like a crazy versus versus like whether or not it's well-reasoned or mentally ill.
He's got someone being unintelligent enough to not recognize maybe X,
Y, and Z is no different than evil.
I was like, whoa.
Fucking kids.
They're all evil.
Benefit of the doubt, Bob.
Jeez.
Fucking kids.
This is the world you get.
When a plurality of your population is not only ignorant and culturally unevolved,
but proud to be so exactly like a zombie pig.
The irony is that the troglodytes voting for and supporting the theme won't be saved by them.
I feel like that's Bob.
That's Bob.
I've seen him use troglodyte before again.
Yeah, I think so.
Overpopulation slash too many stupid people is not eugenics.
Eugenics is a terrible solution to overpopulations.
Bob.
Too many stupid people.
I would 100% believe that he thinks he's like the top echelon of intelligence.
He really does.
A few things are genuinely better for your ego than realizing those aligned against your
irrelevant themes.
I've learned to process this as proof of the validity of my beliefs.
I don't know.
I'm going to go with Nazi.
I'm going to say Nazi.
I'm going to say Bob.
I'm going to go against the waves on this one.
I have a feeling it's Bob.
It's only one wave.
Yeah.
Popo Berto, I think.
Jay with the...
Oh my god, the Bobs have it.
Oh, only five left.
There is no meaningful far left far right conflict in the US.
What happened at Berkeley is a gang of theme attacking
innocents whom recognize as their betters?
Nazi.
That's Nazi.
I sympathize with the desire to be bent by empathy for the theme.
I had the same weakness once.
Understanding that their inability to be fixed was a failure of theirs and not mine
was one of the most freeing experiences of my life.
Bob?
Yeah, Bob.
Yeah, I guess.
But three, so it's Bob.
At the end of the day, the theme era is a solid reminder that institutions are only worthwhile
until they aren't.
Then you throw them out and replace them with superior ones.
The better Americans deserve a better America.
That's...
I don't know.
That could be a Nazi.
That could go either way for me.
Yeah, that could be a Nazi.
Because again, I don't think Bob has any interest in bettering anything.
No, he doesn't.
He just wants the things removed until it's just...
Yeah, he wants...
Well, who thinks he's gonna make a better world?
Okay, it's Nazi.
I think it starts here.
What does everyone else think?
Yeah.
I don't know with Nazi on that.
I think it was Bob who would say the better people deserve a better world,
not a better America.
Not sure though.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
All this cheating and scalduggery to protect a failed inferior version of America that's
never been worth keeping on life support and won't be missed by anyone who matters
when it's replaced.
So much wasted energy.
I think that would be...
Bob about the DNC maybe?
Yeah.
Or yeah, I don't know, maybe.
But I think that's Bob.
I'm not interested in parties.
I'm interested in forward and backward.
Evolution versus stagnation.
Progress to the better future versus regression to the inferior past.
Only two sides to any of that.
Nazi.
Nazi.
I thought Bob.
But it's quite eloquent, Bob.
Yeah.
Because he talks a lot about what is moving forward and progressing versus the people
who hold us back.
Yeah, I think holding back is more of a Bob thing.
So did we get three Nazis and two Bobs?
Or...
Yes.
That sounds like...
We got three Nazis and two Bobs?
An order somewhere.
That is the main reason why this kind of political activity is abhorrent to people
of character and courage.
While at the same time it attracts inferior people.
For a people who is not willing to accept responsibility for his own actions,
but is always seeking to blame someone else,
if a leader comes from that lower class of politicians,
the consequences will become obvious when they mess it up for the rest of us.
I think that's Nazi.
I feel like that's a really good one to end on.
Instead of the rest of us, it sounds like Bob.
Yeah, there's lots of Bob-isms in there.
Yeah.
It also feels very Nazi.
They all feel pretty Nazi.
By that you mean they all feel pretty Bob-ish, that's all you're trying to say.
Yeah, pretty Bob-y.
Do we...
I don't know.
I'm gonna abstain.
Yeah, okay.
I'll say Nazi.
Yeah.
What did you say, Jane?
I said Nazi.
The Nazis already have it.
The Nazis have won.
Thanks for taking this epic quiz.
If you have any suggestions, have any notes,
you think can work in the quiz, quote, sorry,
or notice any problems, let me know.
Thank you, Adam Hilt, I suppose.
Congratulate.
I congratulate you on finishing this nightmare.
You can see the percentages for your questions
by clicking the previous responses after submitting your quiz.
All right.
This is the even more exciting part.
We got 360 out of 500.
They were 500?
Well, it's five points per question.
No, that's the points.
All right.
Okay, so we didn't do super well then.
So now I want to see where we got them.
We did okay.
Yeah, I want to see which ones were wrong.
Okay, I'll scan to the ones that were wrong.
Oh my god, we got loads right in the beginning.
Holy fuck.
Okay.
Like, well, that's the thing.
It's like it had a good difficulty curve to it.
Easy in the start and then they got really hard later.
People who have no understanding
of the political world around them
have no right to criticize or complain
about our superior future.
That was from a Nazi, not Robert.
I would have said Nazi on that one.
History likes to forget that theme often grow
to assault true progress when the backward
and mediocre feel left out.
What did we guess that we did?
We guessed Nazi on that one.
And that was Bob.
That was Bob.
Hmm.
Don't tell me to buy inferior products
or hire less capable qualify.
Oh my god, we were wrong on the one where
hired qualified workers, because we said
that can't be Bob.
It's not true.
Oh, it was Bob?
That was Bob.
I have to admit, I'm scrolling past the loads
we got right.
I love the idea that we got somebody right.
That's funny.
Trump has opened the door to nationalism
in this country.
Not American nationalism, but the white race.
Once that door's fully swung open, you can't close it.
We guessed Bob.
It was a Nazi.
Every time a fellow white person asks me
if I want to be a minority in my own country,
I tell them I'm already a minority in our country.
Oh, we were right about that being Bob.
Well, I can't remember who voted what,
but I remember us discussing about that
being potentially Bob.
So, but we went with Nazi.
The answer was Bob.
No, I said Bob on that one.
That was me.
That was the odd one out.
I don't know.
I could have sworn.
I remember saying that I could see him.
I remember I was being corrected
about the way Bob would do it.
Like I said something like, yeah,
he probably would say that,
yeah, I think I said he would say,
you know, we are the minority already
to like a white person trying to make it sound
like a bad thing.
And then the counter was that he wouldn't see them
as a grouping at all because he hates them.
They're less than, they're less than.
But yeah, that was a good one because,
you know, there's reason.
There's reason to assume.
Um, so the one about Joker being a love letter
to a mass shooter, we guessed Bob.
It was a Nazi.
Oh, okay.
Are you serious?
The nation I love and thought was heading
in the right direction is failing.
And we can only blame the ignorance
of my fellow countrymen.
We guessed Nazi.
The correct answer was Bob.
I feel like I would have gone with Bob on that one.
Yeah, I think it was countrymen.
You kind of threw us off.
Oh, countrymen.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah.
So that was Bob.
That was Bob.
Um, oh, wait, there's feedback.
Someone just said, read the feedback.
What is the feedback?
Those are the comments right below it.
Oh, I guess where they're sourced
from the answers, I suppose.
This quote is from a review of the Joker
on the Daily Stormer.
Okay.
The nation I love and thought.
Oh, it is.
If you pop is scaring me.
The fact that no one wants to hear
this, sorry, I read this wrong again
because the fact that no one wants
to hear is the fact that no one wants
to hear is like fucking there's no punctuation
that helps me here.
Not everyone gets to win.
Even if you yourself aren't a theme,
theme is the superior way forward.
We said that was a Nazi and it was Bob.
I can believe that.
Like I said, I think it was one that we were kind of stuck on.
In those days, I was stupid enough to try
and enlighten theme about the meaninglessness
of their beliefs.
I thought I could show them the danger of theme,
but I was getting the opposite result.
We thought Bob, it was a Nazi.
The feedback is sounds too understanding
to be movie Bob.
It's very complicated, you know?
I swear I guessed Nazi on that one.
Theme cannot be won over, saved or reasoned with.
They need to be defeated along with their values
and political power.
We guessed Nazi, it was movie Bob.
I think those ones are the funny ones.
Will we guess a quote was from a Nazi
because it's so like, no, it was Bob.
Yes.
I condemn democracy as it currently exists in the country,
which is quite anachronistically still called
by the name United States of America.
We thought that was Bob, it was a Nazi.
Reading and the feedback says reading Nazi articles
to find these quotes is really funny.
They have so many tismy quotes.
Yeah, and yet some of them, you know,
managed to sneak in with Bob.
Within my lifetime, one of these theme
are gonna make my, wait, are going to make their own country,
institute basically socialism to streamline the economy
and act like they invented something totally new.
We thought Nazis, it was Bob.
And the feedback says moopishly.
Theme and theme represent two distinctly divergent
irreconcilable paths of societal development,
and they are in conflict.
One will defeat the other
and there will either be a future for theme
or there will not.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
Resistance is futile.
Movie Bob is the future and he is here now.
Surrender now, he will outvote you
with his massive weight that comprises his being.
Yes, ma'am.
Right, right, right, right, right, right.
Some of the most dishonest people can be identified
by the use of the phrase war never solved anything.
Of course it does.
If they were honest, they would say theme
never solves problems.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
Wow.
Holy shit.
The feedback says, okay, Robert.
Yeah, that one's a surprise to me.
Yeah.
Marriage must indeed be refounded
on the much more radical level
than that imagined by the egalitarian
religious right and constitutionalists.
We thought Bob, it was a Nazi.
Yeah, then surprise me at all.
Ifap needs more loud soup memes, agree.
The only reason to fear theme
is if you are a weak or worthless person
who can only hope to hold social power by a theme.
A truly superior individual
would not resist an evolving world.
We thought Nazi, the correct is Movie Bob.
I feel like I was on Movie Bob's team for that one.
Whenever evolving comes up and superior,
I'm always like, oh, it's such a Bob thing.
That's also a pretty Nazi thing, though.
Yeah.
But I mean, that's the point of this quiz.
I'm going to have to keep coming back to that.
That's my final argument.
It makes sense that we've gotten
so many of these right and wrong.
The US is only going to stagnate
until people get on board with the idea
that theme is a mindset place.
Demographic needs to be aggressively beaten,
constrained, and gated to the point
of erasure by any means necessary.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
That's pretty amazing.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah.
Oh, we got a whole bunch, right?
It would be good if we had the theme.
Oh, hang on.
You're breaking up a bunch.
Try again.
It would be cool if when we actually got the answers,
it told us what theme actually was.
Oh, yeah.
That'd be nice.
Oh, I guess so, yeah.
Conspiracy theories are absurd and childish,
but they demonstrate
that the entire concept of democracy is stupid
because the great masses of people
will believe any sort of total gibberish
if it makes them feel good.
We thought movie Bob, it was a Nazi.
Oh, no.
Okay.
And the Cyberpunk 2020 being a Nazi game,
we thought Bob, it was a Nazi.
I knew it.
I fucking knew it.
Even the feedback says,
how the fuck is this a Nazi quote?
Wait, what was the quote?
Cyberpunk 2077 appears to be a full Nazi game.
These are the same people who did the Witcher series,
which is based on Polish mythology
and basically a Nazi game.
It's like, yeah, see, that's the thing.
It's like there wasn't enough.
Like, oh, I am clearly not in favor of Nazis,
like work in that tweet or whatever that was
to not to be movie Bob.
It just wasn't enough.
I found that a closed fist.
This is the one that's spell organized weird.
I found that a closed fist to be a solid place to start,
but there is plenty of variety beyond that.
At the end of the day,
they are just bones and meat and sufficiently
cowed will stifle before you have to break any of that.
Wow.
We thought Nazi and it was movie Bob.
And I thought it was Bob.
I swear that was in a tweet.
So that's why I thought about that.
Yeah.
Movie Bob will break your bones
if you started the way of his superior future.
Wow, I can't believe he said this.
Please arrest this man.
Bob said at the end of the day,
they are just bones and meat and sufficiently
cowed most will stifle before you have to break any of that.
What the hell?
Like, doesn't this count as threats of violence?
Can't you even arrest someone for this?
He said you won't even need to
because they'll break before that, like mentally.
What a bad person.
Yeah, I think we can conclude that.
Deboxy is a failed system because the masses are not capable
of making informed decisions about the way governments function.
They are extremely susceptible to the technologies
of advertisement which are used by the media
to shape opinions and issues.
We thought Bob, it was a Nazi.
I think that was reasonable to assume it was Bob.
Socialism isn't the problem.
It has a problem, namely that its primary proponents are theme.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
Comrade Bob is the greatest Marxist of the time.
The argument could be made that the theme vision of progress
rooted so heavily in romantic idealization,
the pre-mechanization, pre-digital working classes itself,
somewhat dated and hardly revolutionary anymore.
That way we thought Nazi, it was Bob.
It was my first thought because I thought I remember that tweet.
I remember the tweet.
I was like, nah, it can't be.
Bob with a page.
The main thing that the right has in common with the left
is that the appeal to losing end of progress,
real progress, societal evolution and a better future
offers those with it ascendance beyond obsolete tradition.
Those who don't measure up retreat into bitter envy.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
That's my favorite result when we think it's a Nazi, it's Bob.
It's like the most common as well.
The future belongs to those with the imagination and will
to think and act on a planetary scale.
The dialectic isn't nationalism versus socialism.
So that one.
We voted Bob and it was a Nazi.
I guess a Nazi would think that it's not nationalism versus social.
There is no meaningful far left far right conflict in the US.
What happened at Berkeley is a gang of theme attacking innocence
whom they recognize as their betters,
their inheritors of a better post theme American future.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
Really?
Yeah.
At the end of the day, the theme era is a solid reminder
that institutions are only worthwhile until they aren't.
Then you throw them out and replace them with superior ones.
The better Americans deserve a better America.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
Wow.
Yeah.
How about that?
And this is certainly not the Bob's not that bad guys stream.
And the last one we got wrong.
I'm not interested in parties.
I'm interested in forward and backward evolution versus stagnation
progress to the better future versus regression to inferior past.
Only two sides to any of that.
We thought Nazi, it was Bob.
I'm pretty sure I thought that was Bob for a while.
Just the whole backward forward progression thing.
Like it just feels like a Bob thing.
Yeah.
That's, uh, that's been educational.
Who we dude.
So if anyone ever asks why we're so harsh to moving Bob
because we can't tell the difference between him and Nazis, it's fucking hard.
So, so you're saying, yeah, we got like 30% incorrect on that.
Yeah.
We did pretty well considering we're, we're Bob people.
We've seen a lot of Bob stuff, but a 360 out of 500, which would be, uh, what's 360
divided by five, I guess.
Wait a minute.
Isn't that like more than half?
36.
It's definitely more than 50.
Correct.
Yes.
That's 72%.
Oh yeah.
That's a really obvious way to do it.
High five.
Yeah.
We did pretty well then, right?
That's like a passing grade.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We didn't fail.
I didn't even study for that.
I know.
I just love that the top of right on the top of this is him and his stupid Mario cosplay.
He's such a, he exists.
I just want, I just want people to know.
Like, what a beam.
He will lead us to technotopia.
Oh, it's like Zootopia, but with robots.
Technotopia.
Well, the European release technopolis.
The Kno police.
Techno police.
The techno police.
I think I'll give us another round of memes and I was kind of hoping to do all of them
today, but there's just too many.
So I'm just going to stick with them.
Well, we have that much, huh?
We'll do it.
We'll do it.
We'll do it.
We'll do it.
We'll do it.
We'll do it.
Well, we have that much, huh?
We'll do more on the next.
Eff up.
Possibly.
What time is it anyways?
Oh, late.
Later clock.
Yeah, we're doing it.
We're doing all right.
We got another.
Got another four hours.
Stop tranquil.
Four hours and 20 minutes remaining before we're cut off by life itself.
Man, this has been a girthy efap.
Yeah.
Get a lot done.
I like how the podcasts on YouTube that are an hour long, we've recorded seven and a half
of them just now.
Hey, that's the same amount of podcasts I did on my stream last night.
Three entirely separate topics.
This could be uploaded to three separate things and then people.
Right.
It's too long.
If you chopped it literally by topic as well.
I just, I just imagined a conversation with someone who's like a one hour podcast a week.
It's like, Oh, what did you do?
Uh, I did a six hour birthday stream, seven and a half hour normal stream, and then like
12 hours of podcasts.
A normal day in the life of a Twitch stream weekend.
Oh yeah.
And, uh,
24 seven streams.
Just don't turn it off.
Just go to bed on stream.
Well, the curious thing is that if they didn't have a cap, I wonder
how long we would go before being like, all right, that's a bit much now.
Well, you did, uh, that, uh, mistake in 26 hours stream when we weren't doing the whole
day stream.
Oh, no, no, the most we've done on mistake was, I thought it was 19.
Oh yeah.
Right.
The accidental, like 24.
How long?
Okay.
I'll look at efap.me because it has the length of records.
The length doesn't, it's not got the girth listed anywhere though.
Well, you know, wait, the graph is gone.
Oh, no, it's just, it's just floating in the longest one, excluding the, oh, no, it's not,
it's not, it's counting them as individual episodes.
So it's, it's, it only goes up to 12 hours other than the 29 hour one.
So it doesn't guess it's not counting the, uh, so the only way to check that.
Oh my God.
The total runtime is approaching a month.
That's, that's it.
I saw, I saw a super chat at one point saying it took them three months to catch up.
That's just going to keep going up.
It's going to be harder and harder to catch up.
At some point it's just going to be like, give up.
Just, just go from what's new.
Don't, don't try to catch up.
Yeah.
They're like, which season should I start at?
It's like, good luck.
Oh, just watch the previous one.
Like, okay, cool.
How long that takes?
Like, yeah, just four months.
But what, what would you say if you, if somebody asked you which
you have to start off on their first one, would you say it was that the major Lee one?
Maybe the first one's pretty good.
Just watch the highlights.
Yeah, you start at one.
Yeah.
Wait, are you asking which one would we tell them to watch to sort of
get them into thinking they might like the show?
Yeah.
The first one's honestly pretty funny.
Like it's.
They're all pretty good.
Uh, I guess.
I mean, 50 is up there.
If they can handle the link, that was a really fun one.
We had a lot of fun on that one.
Yeah, that was good.
Lots of flisms.
Whole bunch of people there so they can see if maybe their favorite content creator was among us.
Yeah.
What a world.
Someone just sent me this over Twitter.
I'll give me a second.
Put it on screen.
Thanks to Bob.
Thanks to Bob.
Thanks to Bob.
I guess that's what that whole thing was, was default Nazi.
But press X to change it to a Bob vote.
Oh, yeah.
So basically we thought Bob was a better person than he actually is.
Yes, what we did.
Honestly, what we just did is absurd.
And yet it was like hilarious.
I want to think about what you say, Bob.
It's gonna.
I know, right?
Like he needs to know that this happened.
He absolutely needs to know that this happened.
That's how you start developing self-awareness.
Yeah, that was chat reacting to Rags' take.
Oh, all right.
And they were upset, Rags.
It's the point.
You get it right.
That's OK.
They can be upset.
I don't mind.
I think this is what Wolf and Tonal are getting up to now.
Hey, man, he gets to work with Tonal first.
Yeah, you know, we can get in line.
It's fine.
You got Joker's entire plot hinges on late night TV hosts being so out of touch
that they think the problems of poor people are funny.
So this is doubly ironic.
That's about the the Saturday Night Live thing.
Yeah.
And then Bob said Todd Phillips and Joaquin Phoenix are not poor people.
Like, I don't think there's a person on the planet that was like,
but Bob, they play characters.
They play characters.
Bob.
Understand that movies are not real.
Bobbitt.
Apparently not.
Is this supposed to be Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho?
A new and altogether different in-cell fantasy.
Yeah, no one has sex in the film.
This how it works.
Disgusting.
Okay.
This is supposed to be Alfred.
Where is Alfred supposed to be?
Why is Alfred supposed to be?
How come they don't make watermelon jelly?
I remember that.
That was fun.
They do.
It just isn't common.
I remember this reference, too.
Do you get it right?
Let's see.
Currently drowning in anebriation.
You thanked my people for that dish.
Oh, yes.
On the broil.
Yeah, I remember.
I remember.
Oh, someone sent me a good one.
Okay.
This is all right.
Let's watch this.
Mine's next.
You're not the robot.
You can't look at films objectively.
It's like I'm anyone in this room.
What have you found, Ranks?
What is the meme?
Someone just sent me this.
Metal will like this.
What the?
I'm not Mexican.
Sorry.
Yeah, I was going to say that's only for people who are true fans.
I'm a true fan.
Wow.
Make me sick.
That's okay.
I've got coronavirus.
You shouldn't surprise me that there were many of these words.
Yeah, the most basic form of the meme.
Yeah.
It fits perfectly.
Like, how could people not?
Total sense.
I like this image.
Bubble Jep.
Jebu Frick.
Jebu Frick.
Yeah, that's even better.
The British.
Say aluminum like a normal person instead of aluminum or draw 25.
No, this is wrong.
I like this.
It should be the other way around.
No, it's wrong.
It's wrong.
It's an Australian meme.
It's supposed to be backwards.
Thanks, Satan.
The Ralph stream.
Good memory.
Thanks, Satan.
That was good.
He's a good guest.
I love this.
I like they didn't even knock out the white in the picture.
It's like, there he is.
The meme is so strong.
There's a lot of emotions you could put onto that face.
Thanks, Satan.
The Great Incel Ape.
King Kong.
He doesn't have sex in the film.
I'll prove it.
The Great Incel Ape doesn't vote.
If you find it boring, you must be brain dead.
Oh, that see.
How did that not get him in trouble with his fan base?
You know, but we we are the hated ones.
I guess we just got to live with this unfair, cruel world.
Oh, I better stop before it starts to sound like a movie bump.
Le Fromage.
Staring Brouille Lasson, Alois Goudon, Jean Rocha-Felzent.
I mean, I would watch it 10 times in a row and I wouldn't be bored.
Yeah, but it's only in select French theatres.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Only the most exclusive.
Video essays.
I'm pretty sure.
Video essays on Phoenix Joker.
Everyone's beating each other up.
Video essays on Ledges.
Everyone's agreeing.
It's an unfair world we live in.
Lawrence of Arabia.
The Incel World War One classic.
Oh, counting the BDSM stuff.
Oh my god.
I don't even know.
It's not letting you use for me anymore.
Cheese hat.
Cheese hands.
Hat.
Also, you've gone even more muffled.
What is it with you?
That's what I thought.
The plain bob.
This efap has women on it.
I don't understand what's happening.
He's a white knight, I'm guessing.
Yeah.
White knighting.
He has women on it.
Shit.
This was like an old one, apparently, right?
That was missed.
I think you said right.
Yeah, I found that on a yeah, I had googled something.
Some art someone had sent me and I found a couple that people had done.
And this was like two years ago.
They did it, but I had no idea.
No one had ever mentioned it.
And I found it and I saved it.
But I was like, man, I really like it.
It's good.
I like it a lot.
2001 A Space Odyssey.
An Incel science fiction exploration.
Apparently, a lot of these are, you know, Incel movies.
No, hang on.
We're getting some robots going on here.
Oh my god.
Sex.
What?
Someone said something about sex.
Confirm.
I said the robot didn't have sex as Incel movie.
I was referring to the chat.
We were getting some sex.
A search for sex.
Forgot about the figure sexy.
Damn.
That one.
Oh, and that one.
Hey.
All right.
So for now, that'll do it for the Moomaroomas, as they refer to.
Which, I suppose, leads us to good old fashioned super shit
dosto, Spanish.
Don't super shit.
Obviously, we'll do what we can.
We're about an hour and a half over my estimation.
So we did fuck it up.
Thanks a lot, guys.
Yeah.
Nazi versus Bob went on a lot longer than I expected.
I should have known that we needed to break it down definitively.
Break it down.
Break it.
Yeah, there's more memes.
There's a couple of meme videos as well.
There's no reason why meme rags can't do that.
Select other moments.
Just that if I don't start reading super chats now,
we're going to get what's called a Nazi or movie Bob level overflow.
I don't kind of that.
But I may as well say as well, does anybody wish to
ejectify before I get going?
I'll hang a bit still.
That'll tie us.
I will stick around.
I might take half an hour break and then return.
My god.
That's allowed because I want to get some food.
Well, it's not a quiet, Jay.
What?
Oh, that took me too long.
Well, I'll be back.
Okay, Jay, we're all a little bit tired.
Shut up.
I'm not tired.
I got up for this.
7 p.m.
Liar.
I'm going to confuse everybody.
What?
I don't think you live on backwards time.
I drank something just now.
Okay, let me alone.
Stop drinking.
All right, then I'm going to begin reading tisms.
Hey, man, my history of Efap 13 copyright free and Efap cops,
vids weren't shown in the wolf mini.
Were they not good enough?
Just resent.
Just resent.
Resent.
I don't know.
I will have to have a look.
I will copy that.
And take a look, say.
I'll even put creamy.
She has a note.
All right.
Oh, both things on Twitter in case it was a mistake.
Yeah, I'll have a look.
If they're terrible memes, I will let you know next stream.
It's a mean ranks.
I don't think it's probably just got just probably got missed.
We had a lot.
No, wait.
No, no, no, no, we as you saw just now, we only keep the pristine memes.
The ones at the top of the pile.
Of course, your yo meme was you got them dirty memes.
Mm hmm.
Got to clean up those memes, polish them.
But it shine as they say in in space jam.
I hope they bring that back in space jam, too.
I'm glad you will agree.
Is there going to be another one?
Space jam.
Yeah.
Is there really?
Yeah.
Do you not know whether it's going to be great?
I'm upset.
He's jam.
And here we go.
Milk the rhinos.
Absolutely.
When you talked about good war movies, no one mentioned Hacksaw Ridge.
How did you like it?
I rate it very high with great performances.
I've not seen it.
I have not seen it.
I watched it.
I don't remember shit about it.
Can't be that great.
Wow.
We've failed this question.
I have not seen it.
No.
Oh, no.
I think I saw Hacksaw Ridge.
And, like, someone came out, like, pretty close to another war movie.
Was it Hacksaw Ridge, too?
Was this.
Was it Dunkirk?
No, Hacksaw Ridge is like a year ago, right?
Or even like four years ago.
I can't remember.
Hacksaw Ridge is 2016.
Hey, four years ago, I said 104.
100% accuracy.
Dunkirk was 2017.
But I watched them both back to back, I think.
Dunkirk.
I think Hacksaw Ridge was all right.
I actually have to rewatch it.
It's been a while.
Well, can we really trust your opinion, Mr.
Oh, John Wick 3 isn't very good.
John Wick 3 is good.
Yeah, fucking Dark Souls.
Hmm.
In fairness, Dark Souls 2 is the John Wick 3 of the Dark Souls universe.
It is pretty good.
I almost have 20 minutes of my video done.
I got lots of work done.
My God.
Oh, my goodness.
Kill him in jail, bro.
I'll be like more than half to go.
Kill secular.
Rags, how are you doing today?
I'm doing all right.
Doing pretty good.
Do you want to go into any more depth than that?
Or are we just is that what we're doing now?
They asked you an extremely philosophical question.
Now, if you can hear me right now, this is kind of all I've done today.
So, I mean, if you were here for this, you probably got a beat on me.
Well, there you go.
Oh, this just says it's just as birds of prey.
I want to get that scene now just because people talk about it.
How dare you talk about things I am not currently aware of.
Boo.
Oh, I might try and see it, but simultaneously.
I don't think it'll be good.
I have concerns.
I just don't care about the movie at all.
Wow.
Because it stars women.
Yeah, you don't need to keep saying it, Mel.
Okay.
Get it more.
More.
How are you doing today?
So I woke up about six hours, seven hours before this stream started.
So I had a good half day of doing things.
Exciting things.
I repaired a light that was it was broken.
I was saying our garage and and I like screwed together.
Well, I think I'm no more handy than anyone is.
You get a screwdriver because you saw a screw.
You unscrew.
Then you look at it and you're like, what do we do?
Replace it.
Okay.
I didn't even have to use YouTube for this one.
Wow.
Yes, it was that I was I did some some editing.
I believe that's coming along.
You know, yeah, the day was all right.
The day was all right.
I had fun with this.
If it's been an exciting roller coaster.
There is my day.
And this one says, Jay, oh, it's great to have you on.
How is you?
So I guess I'll save that for Jane.
Sorry.
Other people in this stream.
You haven't been asked these questions.
They'll care one day.
Yeah, one day.
Maybe.
I promise.
One of these days, they'll give a poo.
Well, I will reward you in the round when that payments.
So I mean,
save it.
Get Tim Poole on for birds of prey.
I'm not against that.
But would Tim Poole come on?
I don't know.
I think he would make time for it.
Do we know anybody who knows him or should we try emails?
Try an email.
I can ask Sargon if he has a more direct line to him.
Very well.
Jay, always great to have you on.
Oh, yeah, sorry.
Have you seen Amazing Atheists film takes on Twitter?
It makes you wonder if TJ got his brain messed up from that banana.
I don't know that banana would have affected the brain
because of totally different region of the body.
But I would assume.
I don't know how to say people.
I don't know.
Maybe saying this is probably something about anything recent.
You know, everyone's got their takes.
I haven't seen his on movies.
So, you know, he's probably got a bad Joker take.
They said that everyone has one of those, right?
Yeah, except us.
Right, Jay?
Yep, because we're correct and we could we could show it.
We got receipts.
Right.
Hello, Massives.
Kick Jay.
That would be fair.
Hey, Mugely.
Hope you guys enjoy Efap Chan.
Oh, that was the one from Cine.
It was like the one that had the key chain Efap thingy on it.
Wanted to make more, but ran out of time.
So more to come soon.
Hey, guys, what are your favorite Sabaton songs?
Anyone here listening to Sabaton?
I like a bunch of the songs, but I'm afraid I've only got a generic answer for you,
which is the Wing Tizar's song.
Fucking awesome.
I'm pretty sure that's like one of the most liked songs they actually have.
So generic answer that I should be flogged for.
Any games you're looking forward to this year?
Ori.
Is Cyberpunk this year?
Yeah, it was pushed back to September, but let's hope it doesn't get pushed back anymore
because I'm getting a little tired of this.
Anything else we're looking forward to?
I'm looking forward to.
I try not to get too excited for upcoming games to.
Yeah, I'm actually levels.
Yeah, I agree, but I am looking forward to quite a bit.
Last of Us 2, I like that.
I like the first one.
I know a lot don't, but I do.
I'm also going to be looking forward to the Resident Evil 3 remake
because the Resident Evil 2 remake was so goddamn good
and looking like they're going by the same metric that they did for that one.
Doom Eternal.
Yep.
Oh yeah, Doom Eternal.
I suppose I will be interested in that one as well.
Yep, Cyberpunk.
What else?
I know there was more, but those are the ones I can name off the top of my head.
Das is New Wolf.
I'm assuming because of the icon, but.
Probably, but nobody can replace Wolf.
Release IHE debate.
Well, I don't think you can call it a debate, but yeah, something got released.
Woohoo.
I've been working for 12 hours a day and can't sleep.
Damn, Travis is a long man confirmed.
Oh yeah, Mr. Bickle.
Definitely a long man.
Unbridled rage abids a prey when?
I haven't seen it.
I don't.
I don't care if it likes.
This is the thing.
Will I go see the new Black Widow movie?
It's like probably, yeah, because I want to see what they're going to do with Marvel.
Doctor Strange 2 almost certainly at this point.
Very interested, especially with Sam Raimi being director.
And then like Guardians 3 pretty much definite.
Like what I'm trying to say right now is like, yeah, Marvel.
I'm still willing to go see them and possibly get pissed off
or impressed enough to make a video while DCEU.
Like, I don't know.
I don't know what would tempt me to go and see some of these outside.
I just wanted to remain in conversation
and they'd have to be pretty pissed off to make a video about them, I suppose.
Because I just don't expect them to be good enough to praise.
But that's a possibility as well, I suppose.
Oh, Neo2, that's another one.
Sorry, continue.
What are your thoughts on Bloodborne?
Also High Rags.
Hello, haven't played it.
Uh, I really like it, but I think it's got a lot of flaws.
Um, I absolutely love loads of parts.
I love the game exists.
I really wish we could get a stable, like,
we didn't see a stable like 40 FPS.
No, dude, they just need a PC port and everything would be great.
Well, that's kind of why we can
get that stupid frame rate cap off of 30, which also adds to the input delay.
We can get rid of both of those just with a simple PC port.
I think it could be better right now.
It's marred by these issues.
I just can't play at 30 FPS and I can't do it.
I just can't do it.
Bloodborne's a fast paced game.
So running with like input delay and hard input buffering and frame rate cap, it's tough, dude.
Yeah.
And then I feel like Bloodborne can be exploited a tad with certain builds.
Yeah.
And I can't remember anything else.
I guess, yeah, I find a lot of the bosses to be a waste,
as in some of them suck balls in terms of design.
But some of them are great, like through the roof.
Yeah.
Then there's those flip floppy ones that just go like...
The pasta ones.
Where you stick your hand inside the Cthulhu one and it's like all pasta and then just go,
then it goes to one FPS and you're like, what's happening?
But yeah, no, I really like on the subjective side.
I do adore that game in my own way.
I think it's such a cool game to exist.
It's an extremely interesting world.
Yes.
Yeah.
I think I still have a clip somewhere on my Twitch where Abs was annihilated one boss with
like a million HP that little hit that hidden one with the...
Oh, it's like this weird magic attack that explodes everywhere.
I can't remember the name.
Hang on.
Magic attack that explodes.
Well, are you referring to a boss or a spell?
Yeah, it's an optional boss that has the spell.
What does it look like?
Hang on.
I'll just look up the bosses.
Is it a squid thing with a big fucking sponge face?
Because I think I know which one you're referring to.
That would be the daughter of the cosmos.
That boss can suck my fucking ass.
Yeah, daughter of the cosmos.
Daughter of the cosmos.
Yeah, daughter of the cosmos can suck my fucking ass.
Yeah, I have a clip somewhere where I have like a super broken build
and just annihilated in like 20 seconds or something.
Pretty insane, but it was fun.
Yeah, I like that game a lot, but there's a lot of tism as well.
Yeah.
I feel like a PC port could fix a lot of them.
Absolutely.
Hi, you Massives.
Hello.
Thanks for answering my your favorite Star Destroyer question last time.
You said Imperial because Empire.
What's your favorite type of Imperial Star Destroyer then?
EU is allowed.
I'm not aware of the intricacies of the Star Destroyers.
Yeah, like I would pick the Super Star Destroyer over the Star Destroyer
just because it's fucking looks badass.
The death, I think it's Darth Vader's personal Star Destroyer, right?
Just that big old black, long, rusting spaceship.
And I don't know if it counts, but I've always I really dig the older public ones.
Oh, does that count as Imperial?
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
Rags, have you watched Black Moon or Tetsuo, the Iron Man yet?
No, I haven't.
Are those animes because I don't watch anime.
If so, where do they rank in your top 10 best art slash surrealist films list?
Oh, I have no idea.
They are films, yeah.
Yeah, I don't know about them.
Um, Cine Animation said I'm doing line art commissions.
If anyone's interested, you can find Cine Animations in Mauler's Discord.
Mileyface, probably on Twitter as well.
Hi, hi, hoo hoo, pee pee, poo poo.
I am Mauler and I love animu.
No one can use that against me.
Sounds like it just did.
El Camino is greater than little thoughts.
El Camino is objective.
Wait, oh, so El Camino is better than little thoughts.
I'm assuming that's referring to bits of prey.
El Camino is objectively 10 out of 10.
All right.
I wouldn't go that far, but I had a good time with it.
In Batman Beyond, Old Bruce is the new Alfred.
Okay, neat.
Name five good things about each sequel film.
You can only pick stuff about characters in the plot.
Also, that word means high in Greek.
Oh, yeah, I would not pronounce that because I'm uncultured.
Also, how are things good about all sequel movies?
Or we have to come up with five things for each one.
Five things about each sequel film,
and you can only pick stuff about characters in the plot.
Each?
Oh, man, come on.
He's lucky if I come up with two.
All right, let's start off with The Force Awakens.
Five things that we like about The Force Awakens
that relate to character and plot.
So one thing I want to clarify before we start is like,
you know, like, say, for example,
Finn does something that's relatively in character
for the Finn they present.
And so we present that as a good.
But overall, it's a bad because he shouldn't be behaving
this way in the first place, considering his history.
You know what I mean?
Like, that could be...
I suppose.
Is it complicated?
Like, yeah, like, like, I don't know.
Are you just saying we can't refer to...
Like, him...
We can't use their good to refer to other movies
when referring to one.
How about him choosing to save Rey
instead of choosing to run away from the Empire?
That's something.
We have to come up with an objective thing,
or can it be a subjective thing?
Like, I like X.
It just says name good things.
I mean, surely the one I just said counts, right?
Like, they present him that dilemma
and he goes with saving Rey.
Because he's living to like it.
Well, I mean, it's good because I guess he does a good thing.
And I guess he would...
I just believe that he would, I guess.
Like, because he's concerned about people who are innocent
being hurt, that sort of thing.
Like, that lines up enough.
Um, oh, as Longshanks just said,
Finn and Poe have great chemistry.
Yeah, I like their back and forth.
Yeah, that was something I was going to say, yeah.
A lot of people...
I can't believe, by the way, that that was like it.
Like, when you see them together
and they leave that TIE fighter crashes,
like, that's pretty much it for the trilogy.
Like, what?
Don't want to mention anything to do with Han, pretty much.
I like that Leia is sort of like in...
Like, she's still doing stuff, I guess.
But, um...
If we remain context or somehow, like what it is.
I mean, she's like a general type, you know?
She's taking that military sort of role.
Yeah.
So that's something, yeah.
So, you know, it's good to see that from her.
I would expect that from her.
I like how Rey was established through the movie,
starting out, because, you know,
everything was a very visual storytelling sort of thing.
And I'm kind of keen on that,
rather than the whole dual and exposit.
And BB-8.
I mean, BB-8 is pretty good throughout the movie.
I don't have a problem with BB-8.
BB-8's a funny dude.
He's just a droid.
I agree, yeah, I guess.
There's nothing I have a problem with.
So that's live, right?
Yeah, okay.
So now TLJ.
Well, I give up.
Well, I've been thinking for all of two seconds.
I just, I don't know.
I tried.
You know, I liked Poe making the right decision
at the beginning of the movie.
That's something I enjoyed.
Yeah, that was good.
Even though I was apparently told that it wasn't,
I don't believe that.
Poe is the only person I'm kind of like, yeah, you go.
You go, Poe.
I hope this works out well for you.
You go, Poe.
You go, Poe.
Oh, got that.
You do it, Poe.
Poe's still cool.
I still like Poe.
Yeah, Poe's all right, I guess.
Does that count as one or two?
So we're on three now, or are we on two?
Well, I mean, Poe in the whole movie isn't too great
because he gives up on the assault at the end for no reason.
Oh, yeah, the scene between Luke and Arty on the Falcon.
Yeah, I like that bit.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
That was good.
Yeah.
That one thing at one moment.
I'm going to take two points for it using the Help Me,
Obi-Wan Kenobi on My Only Hope in a new context
that is applicable to what's happening.
It's just you have to fucking ignore for a moment
what they've done to Luke.
Like, that was awesome on its own in the right film.
That could be great.
So that's three, right?
Four?
Yeah, yeah, I guess.
This is hard, dude.
Oh, I like Rey reacting positively to the rain.
Like, she's like, oh, cool, rain.
What is this stuff?
And she's like, fascinating.
Oh, yeah.
Good shit.
Yeah, then she drives that boat in the next film.
Fuck that.
She swims in that film.
Yeah, she swims in TLJ.
That's a bad for TLJ.
But the good for TLJ is she reacting to rain.
Can we just say that's five for TLJ and move on to the next one?
Sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, fine.
I agree.
Let's go.
If anything emphasizes when she swims, how she's going to do this.
And now for Tross, C-3PO as a whole was pretty good.
C-3PO.
C-3PO was funny.
I liked him.
He made me chuckle here and there.
I like that they finally got Rey to do some training.
Such a too little, too late moment for me.
Yeah.
But fine.
I will give you that.
She trained.
I assume the visuals are off the table for whatever this is.
Yeah, it has to be about characters.
I mean, they certainly they all look expensive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Has to be about character and plot, apparently.
So I'm not going to have anything good to say about the plot in TROS.
Yep.
That's fine.
Nope.
Can I say that I kind of liked the light sprinting as an attempt to deal
with what Ryan had done, but they just fucking bork that anyway.
Like, you know, the small snippet of an idea that's like, what if we do multiple
jumps at one time and it's like extremely risky, but the only way we can escape the
Empire?
It's like, that seems like could be a way out of that.
Yeah.
It's kind of weird.
Is that kind of this question?
Sorry.
Go ahead.
I like to say, oh, Bobby Frick.
Yeah, of course.
What was I gonna say?
I think I actually sort of forgot in that little moment.
Oh, man, that's a that's a shame.
I did kind of get.
Damn, I was going to say something.
Well, I feel like this question is way harder for TROS because story and characters,
especially characters, just got snubbed in this entire loop catching the lightsaber
saying you should treat the horseback.
I would like pretty funny to Ryan Johnson.
Yeah, I agree with that.
I think continues the trend of, yeah, Jedi can realistically
manipulate the physical world like they weren't even dead.
I hate it so much.
I like the character decision of Rose not being in the film.
I like the lack of character.
Yep, still counts.
I think that we've actually named six now.
But yeah, all right.
Yeah, there we go.
We did it.
We did it.
We did it.
Yeah, but no one ever say we only hate on those films.
Yeah, going through a tism and a half at the moment.
Ifap and a beer hit the spot.
Cheers, lads.
And thank you for your work.
I'm glad you enjoyed the episode.
Thank you for your work.
Is rags your Macaulay Culkin?
RLM has one.
How would rags be that?
They'll be like Jamie.
No, the closer you may have to Macaulay Culkin is probably shad.
Like it would be a person of relative fame who came on for like a gas pot
and is now slowly becoming a regular.
That would, huh, I would.
I think that might be ER.
Yeah, ER could be on Macaulay Culkin.
That's true.
I loved it when Rich called him Maculkin.
I think it was called a Maculkin.
Maculkin.
At desk bullshit icon.
Is that supposed to be a wolf or is that supposed to be a wolf?
No, no.
He's a creature from Guild Wars 2, yeah?
He's a char.
He's a char, boy.
Hey, everyone.
You guys and all of ifap were a huge inspiration into making me want to make movie reviews.
Just wanted to thank you all.
More rags, all wolf, Jay, and everyone.
Thank you.
Oh, glad we did that.
Always good to hear it.
So this means we can call women birds.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
And yes, I'm pretty sure that's misogynism.
Women being called birds is fairly common in these parts here.
If you call a woman like Anita Sarkeesian,
hey bird, I'm pretty sure she'd be like.
She's a bird.
Boom, just check.
She's the Stormtrooper with the snot mask.
Yeah, I don't know if that would mean.
I don't know what her attitude or something like that would be.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure she'd phone.
Wait, this one is more like Gremlins is a Christmas movie.
You are wrong.
When I don't think.
Did I ever say Gremlins isn't a Christmas movie?
That doesn't sound like me.
You just did.
Yeah, you just said it, you fucking idiot.
Still doesn't sound like me.
I can say stuff that doesn't sound like me.
Not me.
Everything I say is exactly what I think, except when my opinions don't reflect them.
What's the Simpsons quote where Marge says that doesn't sound like me?
I remember it being funny, Marge.
I'm pretty sure Homer's like makes something ridiculous up that she said,
and she just reacts like that doesn't sound like me.
I demand to know what it is was my brains going to kill me.
I like that quote.
What happened to you, Lisa?
You used to be cool.
No, I wasn't.
Yeah, this is it.
So Homer's inventing shit.
It's the Thomas Edison episode, and he's going to quit his job.
And she's like, that's crazy.
Whatever he goes.
I remember you.
You're the one who suggested it.
She's like, what?
And he goes, I remember your exact words.
You said I should quit my job, become an inventor, or you'd torch the house.
And she just looks at him for a while and goes, that doesn't sound like me.
Like she had to think about it.
Yeah, like she wasn't sure.
Fucking awesome back in the day.
The video says, no, no, no, no.
Please translate.
OK.
I agree.
It's a lot of Z's in there.
Guys, I'm hacking the internet for a moment.
I got a hack to figure this out.
Oh, my God.
Rags, you should you should translate that.
Ah, like let.
All right.
Let me put this in.
Uh, it says, uh, I guess that's Greek to Ingrish.
Ingrish?
Ingrish.
Oh, my God, it says hi rags.
Yes, it does.
Oh, hello.
I've been noticing there seems to be a lot more supposed Alfreds in media.
They're literally everywhere.
One second.
I'm looking into darkness.
The next.
I think I'm seeing Alfred.
Also, hi rags.
Oh, hello.
How do I send Jay exercise money?
Jay exercise.
When he streams.
I've got a Patreon.
Oh, that too.
And whenever I stream, that's also a possible.
Petreonos and Stremenius.
When fighting Pelagia in Shadow of the Colossus, I think,
do you swim to its back or jump and grab its face?
Have a look at which one that is.
Even though there's that many creature over the water.
See, I never actually played Shadow of the Colossus.
The Shadow of Carlos.
So when I was first playing the game, I did actually just swim around him until
I made it to his back, which I don't think is intended.
But it's possible.
And then the jumping and grabbing his face thing.
That's just like the standard way.
As far as I know, you go on the platforms to do it.
But yeah, either way works.
From what I remember.
Oh my goodness.
Thoughts on YMS's 2020 best pick nominations review.
Haven't seen it yet.
He gave Joker a six and 1917 a five.
How do you think we feel about those numbers?
We're like, oh, wow.
Yeah.
OK.
Even had like a score for Joker.
And then he said he takes a point down for how much it's because he saw.
Oh, that's right.
That one.
He saw it.
And took a point away from Joker because it was.
Does he watch the economy?
Any of you who go and go see those two movies and tell me they're similar.
I mean, there's probably people in chat
who would actually say that to you.
Yeah, well, they're fucking being extremely generous.
The Expendables go to hell graphic novel.
All right.
All right.
Well, there you go.
Hey, guys.
Love the wolf.
Love the wolf minis.
Praise be the dawn.
Yes.
For anybody who doesn't know and only watches maybe the main stuff.
There are two minis.
Part one, part two of wolf catching up on super chats you missed in a stream
and watching copyright to some videos with Rags and I.
And it's a funny shit in there.
We open with Trumpy Bear.
Trumpy Bear.
Rags, have you seen Mr.
Medicare's video on Sargon?
Do you think it's fair?
I'm not a fan of Sargon, but I noticed some clips were cut abruptly at some point.
That's what I heard.
I haven't seen it now.
Medicare's got quite the hard on for Sargon.
Is he still talking about Sargon?
I doubt it's a new thing.
Isn't his new thing?
Medicare's very focused on the coronavirus, from what I remember.
I think so.
I'm not sure.
I don't really keep up with him.
I think that that meme, Charlie's Angels isn't for men versus men are sexist for
not watching, is fake.
I couldn't find the articles when I looked.
Fair enough.
Oh, check this one out.
From Jebelita Battlebush.
Oh, you know this is credible.
Rags is objectively right about Taxi Driver.
I know I am.
I'm just curious if I could rags alone change the narrative on Taxi Driver.
One person at a time.
We're going to start a revolution.
You know what?
I'm going to see it tonight and we'll see if I agree.
Make sure to PM the results.
Okay.
Desk bullshit.
What is it like being a black woman?
It's pretty sick, dude.
It's pretty sick.
It's pretty sick, dude.
Why miss his opinion?
Go ahead, sir.
Oh, sorry.
Oh, no, I was just the reference, of course, being I don't know.
One time I was at the airport, I was leaving Seattle and all of a sudden,
the guys in the EFAT podcast talk decided that I was a black woman by day.
And who am I to argue?
These are smart folks.
I was going to say, it'd be pretty fucked up if you argued with that.
Yeah, I was going to say, you're a white male.
You're a white male.
You're a black lady.
Yeah.
We're the patriarchy.
Three are so oppressed right now, you guys.
Perhaps you heard of us.
We're the patriarchy.
That's a good bad name.
I mean, I would give this stuff a shot, personally.
I don't know about you guys.
You're like, you know, just listen to a song, maybe two.
Why miss his opinion on 1917 is really tismy.
He calls it a cheesy war movie underneath the gimmick of one continuous take.
Uh, anyways, thanks.
I don't care if you've seen that video.
We have.
I mean, he's really harsh on that film.
I don't really understand where it's come from.
And the, uh, the cheesy is cheesy a lot.
And I was like, what is it?
Be specific.
What do you mean?
Cheesy.
Very.
I would be interested to see what they talk about.
Cheesy.
It's like the film fucked his mom.
That you describe those that do that as cheesy.
Oh, that's how we act.
So what was it?
I mean, well, maybe it did.
Jay, what do you know?
Yeah, man.
That's mean to make fun of them for that.
It's a victim.
I always use cheese when I fuck the milfs.
Anyways, thanks for providing me something to listen to at work.
Y'all are mighty words.
Also high ranks.
Imagine if Thanos used mind stone on Thor to fight both Iron Man and cap with Mjolnir,
while Hulk brawls Thanos in a rematch.
Not enough stones used.
That'd be pretty cool.
The first, I think we talked about this before though,
but the first thing I would do if we were revamping infinity war end game
is sorting out those fucking stones.
Let's be definitive of what they can do.
Stories.
And then get rid of time travel.
Fuck time travel.
Yeah, I wouldn't even like.
Yeah, it would be put on the whiteboard with a giant cross through it.
It's like absolutely not.
Yeah.
Number one rule.
No, not doing it.
Ain't happening.
At any point when we're running out of like ideas, someone goes time travel.
No, fuck.
Shut up.
Toss them out the board room window.
I don't even know if they do the time travel stuff in the comics.
I know they do the multiverse stuff as well, but I think the rules suck off.
But I think the rules there are that the stones are only,
you only work in their respective universe.
So you can't get other stones to another universe.
I think I saw that.
It's been a while.
I could be wrong, but that's what I remember.
I would be fine with the time travel if it's literally only established that it's,
it's, they stick to it, that it's whenever you time travel somewhere new,
it's a completely alternate timeline and there's nothing else.
And that they stick to, oh, the stones don't actually need to be there for those people to
survive. Just that makes it fine.
Because then you don't have the normal effects of time travel.
Just put up a video bashing the sequel trilogy for two and a half hours.
Thought you masters would enjoy the channel is goblin cast live in the air.
Right.
It's like cast like the cast of a film.
No, it means cast as in casting a goblin spell.
They're very specific.
That's the same word.
Completely different way to spell with a Q.
Yeah, I've seen a shot that I am correct about the infinity stones
until universe thinks in a comics.
I can't find the channel.
Can't find the channel.
Oh, I mean.
Unforged cast what?
I will.
Let me give me a moment.
I will post you specifically the name.
Goblin cast line in the air.
But are they alive in the air?
Because we'll find out in the next episode.
Like a bird.
I'm really hungry.
Was open at half past three in the morning.
Well, that always bugged me.
It's like, why can't you be open whenever I need you to be?
Other bakeries are often open at half past three.
Wow.
Um, yeah, never seen a fab life before.
Hi Rags.
Oh, hello.
Hi there.
Massively McBlasterson.
We get that every episode though.
People say, and it's my first time catching it live.
And I'm like, man.
Well, that was the thing.
When we were like far into the movie.
Bob part or far into the I hate everything listening conversation.
I was like, there's gonna be a lot of people who've just joined.
They're like, what the fuck's that?
Why is everybody just silent?
Why are they all listening to two other people?
Like I need content.
They're not going to know what the hell's going on.
How long do you think the woke trend in entertainment will continue?
Do you think they'd be tired of losing money?
That's funny.
The next thing I said, do you think they'd be tired of losing money,
but they'll just keep going?
Um, uh, I think the ones who are most ideologically driven will put up with
the most loss and profits the most.
Like the ones who don't actually care.
They'll be the ones who swap first.
Yeah.
Like Disney will be the fucking Disney kind of doing it.
Survive in the industry unless they're very people who make these decisions.
It's not their money.
They're doing it because it's their job to make a design decision or to do
something and they don't have any stake in the company itself.
You know, they can go somewhere else.
They're basically gambling with other people's money.
So if they lose it, then they'll blame it on something else because it,
they'll either say we didn't go far enough.
Or they'll blame something else.
They won't blame themselves in any way.
They won't have any introspection and they'll say it doesn't matter anyway
because it wasn't my money that got lost.
Wasn't my money.
It's all the men's fault for not watching this movie.
That wasn't meant for them.
And that we chastise them for watching if they ever watched.
And it wasn't meant for them.
Um, so you know that meme that I showed you with like the crowd of people
say we all hate movie Bob.
Um, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Movie Bob quote tweeted that from Jack and said, at a certain point,
you get bored waiting for the people whom you know, aren't on board with
this sort of nonsense to say something about it.
I guess he's saying like, Jack shouldn't be, shouldn't be disagreeing with him.
I don't even know.
And then someone responded.
Yeah, that's, that just sounds so odd.
How would you ever know what Bob is trying to say?
Exactly.
It's a fun little game.
You could turn it to like a whole hundred quote quiz and
tips of figuring out.
He has nothing to say hot.
Yeah, he has nothing to say and yet he won't shut up.
Um, and someone commented on his tweet saying, correct me if I'm wrong,
but isn't the gas mask guy, the I'm going to make a four hour video
about how Jenny Nicholson is the worst for liking a Star Wars movie guy.
And then, and the I'm going to make a four hour video about how Patrick
Williams is the worst for not getting mad about plot holes guy.
And so I just responded, no.
Yeah, I think you must be referring to somebody else.
It's like technically you are referencing the person you think you are, but still know.
Uh, no, maybe, maybe there's someone else.
We don't know these things.
Be nice.
What do you mean?
They're being the mean.
I'm being the nice.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Okay.
Now you're being the mean.
I'm going to take everything from you.
I'm going to eugenics you.
Whoa.
Now enough of that.
Jay Rags watched your old vids and I think that's what they love them apart from your
take on torchwood.
Maybe you cursed with being locked in a two Lou toilet.
So knees to knees to tonal to poop eye to eye for all eternity.
You know,
I love the idea.
You know,
Rags, I want you to read it out.
It started out okay.
Read it out word for word.
I've said you it now.
Rags watched your old vids.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, read it out as it's spelled.
Rags watched your poor old vids and luck them apart from your take on torchwood.
May you be cursed with being locked in a two Lou toilet.
Soon sown knees to knees to tonal to poop eye to eye for all eternity.
So I don't believe I ever made a video about torchwood.
There's so much to say about this.
I'm glad you watched my old vids and look at them.
I didn't make it towards video.
You've only seen day one, right?
I've only seen that's not even public yet and it was horse shit.
Um, but this one started out okay, but it went off the rails.
I haven't got a torchwood video for anyone thinking they might be mixing this up.
Unless it's Jay.
Jay, do you have an old torchwood video?
No, I don't have a torchwood video.
I will eventually.
But it's not going to be just about torch.
Oh, this one says, please never cover movie bob again.
It hits so much.
This poor soul.
It hurts everyone, man.
Movie bob has killed a lot of guests.
He has highest kill count.
He's killed a lot of these.
Well, he's that's probably he probably sees that as a win.
That the guests on effect for the right people to die.
That's true.
Have you guys seen that that banned German ninja turtle commercial?
It's less than 30 seconds long.
Tell me how it makes you feel.
Also, hello, all who read and hear this spoken.
Also is rags a hamster now.
I am no hamster.
I am.
That's like a doge icon.
Someone someone drew.
So it's pretty pretty good.
I like it for a meme.
Oh, Jay's been kicked.
I see.
Oh, this is so I guess.
Do you want who do you want to say?
It doesn't specify.
It doesn't specify.
Okay.
Oh, Jay's been kicked.
I see.
There you go.
There's been kicked.
I see.
Yes.
Oh, no, I've been kicked.
Patiently waiting on your batwam in reactions.
As far as I'm aware, episode five of infinite isms should be good to go very soon.
So that one's coming out and the batwam and ones you don't like.
Yes, they're going to be late.
The editor is going to slowly catch up to being up to date.
So don't worry, guys.
You'll have your flow of constant batwam and episodes.
They'll be worth waiting for.
Believe me, like, I think metal fringy rags and I are going to want to watch the shit
out of the two bat women, batwam and videos that we made because those those were something else.
It's this stuff happens.
And I'm curious to see those were really good.
The recent ones were really crazy.
Curious to see how it how it all turns out.
But yeah, they're on the way.
But the newest one should be relatively soon.
But when specifically.
So this video will be processed and re-uploaded and released.
Hopefully earliest will be in 12 hours from now.
Latest will be Monday.
Look at the repeat day.
Then Tuesday will be I hit everything conversation being released on its own.
Then oh, God, Tuesday is another refab.
So the idea is I try not to just shove loads of things out at the same time.
So basically infinity system is going to be delayed by a little bit
because we got loads of other things we're doing.
It'll come out.
Don't worry.
It'll come out.
Very good.
Same for all the movies that are still waiting to come out as well.
Check Twitter sent by Mikey Gusler at the Gus bus.
I will.
I mean, I've been cycling some stuff from Twitter and hopefully I've got it.
I went through notifications from once the stream started
and grabbed all pictures and videos.
So I should be able to sort through that in a moment.
Dass, who did the art for your PFP?
Also high regs.
Hello.
That would be Stradimire.
Good old Stradimire.
Howdy gang.
Have a great stream.
Much love.
Thank you very much.
Hello.
Mooba.
You can apply that stupid failure is the greatest teacher nonsense to all Star Wars films.
It's not an exclusive TLJ theme.
It's a flimsy theme.
Um, I mean, I don't know if I'd go that far because like the thing with TLJ is that you can
see that's what Ryan is aiming to do.
Like there's a lot of explicit language and a lot of the final decisions from characters
are supposed to be made as a result of failing to do something else at first.
And I know you could be like, don't everybody do that in life?
It's like you wouldn't really apply that to Luke in A New Hope, would you?
Um, you might be able to apply it as a journey to him from Empire to Return of the Jedi, I suppose.
But like, I don't know, the theme seems a lot more supported in TLJ.
It's just that they botched the delivery.
The idea that it's a flimsy theme.
Are you saying like it could be applied liberally?
Because I think you can feel that way about a lot of themes, depending on how you
paste things out.
And that's that's what the discussion part is for, right?
So if they're like, yeah, it is for A New Hope because Obi-Wan.
Uh, yeah, see, how do you even put that on Obi-Wan?
There's just a lot of characters that applies to in TLJ, whether clunky or not.
And then you obviously have Yoda being like really fucking over with it.
Um, it's no longer about family.
Okay, it's about failure.
Hi, Rags.
Hey.
Kick J.
All right.
Eventually, again.
Just bought Doom 2016.
I hope it's great.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
And yeah, Doom 2016 is a good one.
Yep.
It's a good one.
I think of when I heard that was the movie.
I'm like, I swear you didn't say it was great before.
Oh, right.
Games.
Is Maul still friends with the right opinion?
As far as I know, I'm on good terms with them.
Like, you could contact me whenever he wants.
Uh, but friends, I mean, with how I tend to use that label, I wouldn't really describe us as friends.
I can't remember the last time I spoke to him.
Um, and we don't hang out or anything.
Not supposed to be offensive.
It's just that you use that label informatively to describe, you know, people like that metal guy.
He's, he's kind of a friend, maybe.
Shut up, metal.
Okay, I'm sorry.
Why is the quotient realm in EG is tunnels.
The other description depictions were either a nothing void.
A one or a weird landscape.
A two brick end game.
Oh, the quantum realm, not the quotient realm.
Okay.
No.
Why is it tunnels as opposed to a nothing void or weird landscape?
All right.
Um, I don't know.
Because they know where they're going, I guess.
Because they, they're able to traverse it as opposed to being wanderers.
I guess I don't really want to defend any of that.
Just like it's, it's, it's quantum, quantum, quantum, really terrible.
Um, Hey, Efaps rank the Nolan films, please.
Are you referring to Batman or all of his films?
The prestige on top.
Oh yeah.
Have you seen all of his other films?
J I've seen, I've seen the dark knight trilogy inception.
Uh, let me see.
Stella.
I'm sure.
Yeah.
I've seen interstellar.
That's what the bottom is.
No, it's not.
Don't write this at the bottom.
It's fair.
There's a lot of stuff.
I still like it.
And it was a bomb.
Uh, dark knight rises.
Okay.
I would, if we're going to go reasonable here, I probably say everything.
Okay.
We're going to stick to like at least well known stuff.
So we'll go with prestige, memento, dark knight rises.
Batman begins Dunkirk, dark knight interstellar inception.
They'll be our selection.
Uh, I've seen cause he's, he's done more than that, but fucking
can't like include every single one.
And I don't think I've seen all of them.
Christopher Nolan films, Batman V Superman and Man of Steel come up.
Well, he's, I think he produced them.
Wait, he did?
Oh shit.
He might have.
I can't remember.
But yeah.
Prestige is the top for me.
Then dark knight, then probably Batman begins then inception.
No, memento, then inception.
Then insomnia, I think if I mentioned that one.
Sorry.
I can't remember if I did.
Um, then Dunkirk, dark knight rises, interstellar.
That would probably be my list without thinking about it.
Do any of you at least has good things to talk about above?
Like, don't, fuck you up.
Fuck it.
Just Stella.
It's such a shit movie.
Yeah, but at least has no, no, get out.
No, get out.
Get out.
I've heard it's bad.
I like soundtrack.
Sorry.
What was your argument?
It has things to say.
It has no, it has strength.
No, it has good things about it.
Whereas dark knight rises.
It's just trash.
You could easily make that argument in reverse.
No.
Uh, I don't know if anyone else wants to make that listing.
I don't know.
I feel like I might be the only person who may have seen all of those.
I can't remember what was everybody's.
It's been too long since I've seen interstellar.
Yeah, I've only seen it once.
I wish I could say the same.
Mel gets dragged through into stellar every time he comes over though.
Everything I remember about it is just like visuals and music and stuff.
So I don't know about its quality in any meaningful sense.
Very well.
I know that dark knight would score pretty high for most people, right?
Oh, good.
Yeah, dark knight in prestige is like a difficult decision for me.
Although I think prestige takes it.
Yeah.
I mean, I love dark knight.
I would call the fire a sore prestige.
It didn't seem like it.
Prestige too good.
Prestige.
We didn't deserve prestige as a fucking species.
Oh, it's so good.
All right.
I was a professional clown for massive years.
Would y'all be ever interested in hearing perspectives of joker from a clown?
Could make good rat.
I don't have anything against that.
I don't have anything against it.
Could be fun.
Yeah.
I'd be curious as to what you would you be describing like
for lack of a better your typical cloud day.
I mean, this was it a cloud agency?
It would be interesting to know if it was like the one that joker was doing.
Hi, guys.
Just curious.
Do any of you know a secondary language?
English.
English.
Yes.
Sorry.
If secondary was for the sake of this argument defined by the second most used,
what would be your primary language?
Well, it's actually a good question.
Because I mostly only use German when I'm talking with my friends here or I'm in work.
But even the more I have to talk English sometimes, depending who calls,
I think I'm actually talking more English these days than German.
You're infecting you.
It's not by a lot, I think.
It's still more.
But then again, if I stream, I talk a lot, like way more than I would at work,
for obvious reasons, or we just hang out.
Oh, I don't know what you mean.
What do you mean?
Why aren't you?
So why don't you search chatterbox at work?
Yeah.
Fucker.
Yeah.
Fucker.
I mean, I'm not silent at work, but I think I'd talk more because we
talk about interesting topics here and not about my work.
Wow.
So suddenly, movies are more interesting than work.
Yes.
All right, fair enough.
And as for the rest of us, I imagine we only know pieces of another language
as opposed to another language.
Yeah.
My biggest second language would be German, but I don't speak German.
What would be your biggest second language, Rags, if you happen?
If I could pick one?
Not, not, like, not a dream.
No, no, no, no, you actually speak.
Yeah, like, because you know bits and bounds from all kinds of things.
But what one would you think would be the one you know the most about other than English?
Probably Russian.
Really?
That's cool.
Oh, you're a bot.
Because, yeah, that's correct.
That's why I was, I was recruited by Putin himself.
He sent me an email.
Normally, I just call him Vlad.
You know, we've grown close.
V-man.
Yeah, so Vlad sent an email and he's like,
hey, Hillary, she's fucking nuts.
I need you to get Donald Trump elected.
And so I went, I made 5000 Facebook accounts.
And I said, Trump is great on all of them.
Oh, did you also skew the results of the Captain Marvel review?
Because that's how you conquer the world, right?
Yeah.
Oh, you evil bastard.
Captain Marvel.
I can tolerate, but oh, yeah, Russian values.
I love the idea that you're in direct contact with Putin and like the next
he gives you a job to like maybe assassinate some people and really perform some dirty
fucking work in terms of fucking with all the other stuff.
And then and then the next email he sends is like, review TLJ with a one star out of five.
On it, boss.
You bet.
Don't ask questions.
We think that that was done by the Russian government.
Oh, God.
Anything for you, Vlad.
Yeah, they thought like they thought that the people who were reviewing Captain Marvel
and favorably were Russian bats.
Yeah, but like, why did they think the Russians were doing it is my question.
Because because that's their big fat boogeyman now.
Oh, God.
Anything didn't go their way.
It was Russian cheating.
That's all it is.
Can't say fat.
That's that's a reason why.
I'm fine with accusing people of like espionage or whatever, but fat.
Come on, dude.
Yeah, they're taking it too far.
Gonna have to slow the brakes on the espionage.
Okay.
Wouldn't it be boost the brakes?
Yeah, apply the brakes.
Fucking.
No, no, no, no, no.
Nice, nice, gentle, nice, gentle acceleration.
No, if you're if you're on the brakes, you're not accelerating.
Yes, you are.
Okay, then, it seems we're in an impasse.
Yeah, no, I think I can't believe I'm saying this, but I think I'm going to
side with Jay on this one.
You may still be moving, but you will not be accelerating.
If the brakes are applied over the change in time.
Uh, wait a minute.
You fucking without the spirit of our point.
And you're fucking with us on the literal definition.
The only spirit that I care about is the spirit of mother.
Are you accelerating by a negative value?
No, that'd be referred to.
The accelerating by a negative value.
Yeah, it's just that's just change the velocity of change in time.
Oh, you're using a secondary definition.
You sneaky little shit.
The primary one is the increase in the form.
I'm using, I'm using F equals ma.
Come on.
You know what?
Rags, you know what?
I have, okay, rags.
Fuck you.
Fuck you.
And there you go.
Also, it's important to note that it's also changing directions because there's
a vector quantity as well.
That's very important.
This reminds me of the pants thing.
We like desperately search for any way out of a misspeak.
And I love you for it.
Pump my brake.
Hold that.
If I have any more this week, it will come out.
Oh my God.
I mean, I'm okay with it, but like, you know, doctor,
get him to have a look.
All right.
Please apologize to shadow visti for me.
I left a super chat last efap that made it seem like his bid on Vikings
had tons of mistakes, but it actually only had three.
Very sorry.
I hope he gets better.
You said she had to the fucking surgery.
I will, I will save that for him.
Though I think he was in chat talking to you.
He probably knows.
But oh, and that reminds me.
I saved a question for you, Jay.
It asks, how are you?
And it's always great to have you on.
I'm dying, but there's only four things wrong.
Three fucking idiot rags.
Why you never write?
Rags.
Fuck him up.
No rags was never right.
The taxi driver would be great.
Taxi driver is overrated.
Not even that good.
We rise ultimate question time.
Ultimate question time.
What's more overrated taxi driver or the last of us?
Well, you know, that is a toughy boys and girls.
I'm going to say that the last of us is more overrated.
No, I'm going to say that taxi driver is more overrated.
Oh, I'm curious.
You're right.
You would have stuck with what you said, but you didn't.
How would you know?
You haven't seen it, Jay.
That is your real name.
No taxi driver is more psychological profile.
Because I do think that the last of us is overrated,
but it's still not bad.
I think it's more quality than it's more quality as a game
than taxi driver is as a movie.
Well, that's convenient because that's the things they are.
My God.
I wonder if this will become something
that everyone hates you for.
Yeah, I wouldn't say.
I wouldn't say that the last of us is a better movie
than taxi driver is a game.
That would be difficult for people to wrap their minds around.
Yeah, that's a tough thing to be definitive about.
I would imagine the last of us.
The last of us would make a better movie than like,
because there's no interactivity.
That's not what he said, though.
In taxi drivers.
So it's a shit game.
Yeah, it's a really shit game.
It's not even a game.
I can't even say it's a shit.
Like, I mean, in terms of meeting the criteria,
it's really it's about as terrible as you could get
because it isn't even one.
It's like a square is a really shitty circle.
It's true.
Agreed rags.
That's right.
Rags equals wrong.
Lol.
Okay.
Kick rags.
The split has begun.
The Civil War begins.
So it was like I personally like last of us
in the chat is like, yeah,
I definitely see why people like it.
I like I just don't think it quite is.
I mean, it's yeah.
I mean, I didn't finish it,
but I could see why people like it.
I did.
But I was definitely in the in the camp of like,
damn, I want to get to the end of the story.
I'm done with the mechanics.
Yeah.
Did Rags say this or did a Nazi say this?
Taxi driver bad.
It's like clearly that was Hitler.
Who could ever say that?
Only the worst of humanity.
Not that I am, but only the worst of us.
Would ever say that.
Almost the last of us.
Most lost.
Maybe evil.
How about the worst of us?
Hi, Wag.
Would you rather Yif Elora or Bianca?
Can you say that one more time?
Elora or Bianca?
Laura.
I guess I got to put a Laura Yiff into fucking images.
Oh, no.
Let's see.
Laura.
I won't do that.
What do you know?
She's the chick from Spyro.
She's that fun chick from Spyro.
And the other is Bianca.
Images.
Bianca is that chick from that movie.
What was it?
Cheap and Wolves.
Apparently, there's a Bianca in Spyro as well, though.
Oh, there is Bianca Spyro.
In the Reignited trilogy.
I'm going to go with Elora on this one.
Going to go with Elora on this one.
Well, there is your answer.
There's your answer.
Yeah, Laura's hot.
Nobody nowhere has ever confirmed this question for me.
Did young people like Star Wars?
I think that's Rise of Skywalker, Revenge of the Sith.
They must be in Revenge of the Sith.
Did kids like it?
Did teenagers like it?
Does anyone here have kids?
Do you know if they liked it?
So it was SWROS.
ROS is probably Revenge of the Sith, right?
What does it actually mean, Rise of Skywalker?
Oh, let's just answer both.
Let's answer both, right?
So Rise of Skywalker, which I actually think is more likely.
Did kids like it?
Did teenagers like it?
Does anyone here have kids and would they know?
I would be surprised if the general public didn't seem to think
that Rise of Skywalker was fine, if not good.
I'd assume that they all thought it was just like,
yeah, you know, spaceships.
I hate to sound like movie Bob,
but normies can be fucking retarded.
Wow.
Well, I mean, my take on that would just be that they don't like,
if you were to ask them all the questions that would, you know,
sort of reveal to them that it's a pretty weak movie,
they probably wouldn't really fight you on it.
They'd be like, yeah, I guess that was really dumb.
Yeah, that's the thing.
They're just like, I don't know if I can.
I just came home from work.
I wanted to watch a fucking movie.
Leave me alone.
You're like, okay.
Over to Rise of Skywalker.
Uh, sorry.
Revenge of the Sith.
That was 2003.
Always forget this.
Was that 2005?
I saw when I was a kid and I liked it.
I saw it when I was 12 and I loved it.
So is that enough?
We saw it.
We liked it.
Boo, boo, boo.
And yeah, there you go.
Kids probably liked them both.
I'd be surprised if a Star Wars movie came out that kids didn't like,
at least out of the selection we've had so far.
I could see kids liking all of them so far.
The way that kids don't like a Star Wars movie is if it's like boring,
if it's slow and nothing happens.
Well, see, people say that about Attack of the Clones.
I'm like, fucking plenty of kids like Attack of the Clones.
Yeah, but it's got like loads of lightsaber fights, Matt.
Yeah, but it's also between loads of politicking and romance scenes.
Yeah, Clones was fucking boring as shit.
Even when I was a tiny child.
Paparino.
I feel like when I was watching them, when I was younger, I would just.
And just be for out of my mind.
Yeah, like with the moments that can be skipped,
you sort of just stop paying attention and do something else for a little bit.
And then it'd be like, oh, lasers.
Anyway.
Hierophant green emeraldo splash.
That's a JoJo reference.
Good job.
Recommend playing Rebel Galaxy Outlaw.
Also, high regs.
No.
Hey, Rebel Galaxy Outlaw.
Yeah, I don't know that one.
Let me take a look.
Rebel Galaxy Outlaw.
Oh, shit.
So this next super chat.
Mel, can you get can you get the highlight of the thing?
The really funny thing that happened on stream that.
Oh, that I don't want to say the payoff because I want to play it for you.
OK, you know, the one with Chase.
Yes, yeah.
There's lots of them, but I know which.
There are a lot of the one.
It's the one.
Of course, that's that's an easy grab.
Calipse.
Oh, fuck.
I always forget they changed the stupid.
When are you ready to put it on the YouTube version of the Watch Together
or does Watch Together do Twitch clips?
Oh, well, it's fine.
It's literally like just one 20 minute thing.
So I'll just we'll sync and then post play.
As in three, two, one minute.
20 seconds.
I don't know.
Words, numbers, the letter six.
I'm stupid.
It's fucking holocrons.
It's very easy.
Yes, yes.
You it means that you can.
There you go.
Right.
Everybody load up that clip.
OK, don't play it yet for anybody who hasn't seen.
This will be fun.
Oh, and it's funny because, you know, Twitter video is a fucking nightmare.
Like it doesn't work properly.
Almost ever.
Twitch video is fantastic.
Works completely.
They should just adopt it at this point.
Pay them.
Is that sarcasm?
It's not.
But a video is a fucking nightmare.
Oh, because I've not had good experience with which video.
Well, at least with clips, it works for me.
OK, so is everybody.
So yeah, context, right, is we were playing pummel party as you do.
And you can see a whole cast of funky characters up there.
And let's just say we're about to concentrate because we're about to begin this minigame.
All right.
Is everyone able to press play on this?
Yeah, I am indeed.
Yep, I was there during this.
All right.
And yeah, obviously, this is for chat as well.
Yeah, and we're all relatively drunk tisms.
So three, two, one, go.
Well, there's two sharks.
Because I'm a shark as well.
I'm a shark as well.
Oh, wait, I'm not the shark.
Sorry.
I thought I was.
I guess they randomized it.
OK.
OK.
I don't like minorities.
I didn't watch that so many times.
It's so funny.
Well, by the time I got there, he was just in another universe.
He was gone.
He was so gone.
He was making up for the fact that he had missed Mel's previous previous party by
trying to be nice and entertaining, and he nearly killed himself.
Didn't he say he doesn't drink normally?
I don't remember, but he did.
Yeah, he really drinks, apparently.
Yeah, but he didn't remember a lot of what happened.
So that's a good sign.
Oh, he didn't.
But yeah.
Did he get to watch that clip like he'd never seen it before?
Oh, I don't know if you remembered that bit or not.
But either way, that and loads of other great bubbles are from that stream.
I'm going to, while I'm editing TFA part three,
I'm going to chop that up in the background and make some EU out of it.
Good tisms.
And yeah, so the super chat said, I don't like minorities.
Drunk Chase, 502, 2020.
I don't like minorities.
Wait, you can call the stream?
Oh, I think they're referencing me calling chat.
That's the process at the beginning where I'm getting them up on screen.
Yes, that is me calling them.
100%.
Don't worry, it's memes.
Please let Wolf know about the new music video for Noise by Nightwish.
It's handcrafted for people who've suffered due to social media.
We're going to try and phase out any sense that Efap is a way to send Wolf messages,
because the whole point is he's trying to escape social media.
And any casual comments about maybe Wolf likes X or Wolf is doing X,
like we're probably going to try and limit them because I understand that
people are going to be tempted to want to send messages through us and stuff.
From what I've gathered, I obviously would have heard it on the minis.
Wolf's not too on board with that, but I appreciate it.
As would he.
He's sentiment.
What are you guys' thoughts on Breaking Bad as a whole?
Pretty much the best TV show that exists.
Yeah, pretty much.
Yeah, best show to have started and ended.
I was thinking the only the only thing that comes close to it to me
for me is Bojack Horseman in terms of TV.
Fair enough.
Yeah, Breaking Bad is just just excellent in basically every category.
No.
Not like Flawless or anything, but I would say Last Floor did
most other TV shows because it's fucking they did a really good job.
Great stuff.
Until we watch that.
I'm watching forever.
Flamenco and Ethan Ralph aren't trustworthy people.
Flamenco is trying to dox.
Two streamers and Ralph's fans were caught false flagging and doxing people
and he hides the evidence.
Screw them and Matt.
Oh, no.
Flamenco was the guy's video that I was playing earlier.
I mean, I'm not involved with Flamenco or Ethan Ralph in any way.
I don't know what they're up to or anything.
I've heard a lot of stuff about Ralph,
but I don't know about anything about this Flamenco guy.
Yeah, I was just the only reason we're playing that.
It was just funny to see what Matt said, that's all.
Yeah, I think I shall hop off now.
I'm getting a little bit tired, so I shall lie down.
Well, Metal, why don't you promote your John Wick 3 video that you've made?
Tell them all about it.
What do you mean made?
I've been working on it.
I just created false expectations from people.
I did a lot of what?
Wait, what do you mean?
I did a lot of work on it this week, though.
That was very nice.
I'm like almost halfway through, so.
You mean you're not finished?
No.
Who the fuck cares, Mel?
Call us when you're done.
I don't know.
I'm okay, Bob, I'm sorry.
Yeah, you should totally watch that Twitch stream we did on the Twitch.tv slash Matorial Commander.
Yeah, if you go to his page, then videos, and then recent broadcasts,
you'll find it's the one with all the fucking faces in it, basically.
Yeah, and I archive my streams on the YouTube, there's a channel as well.
And maybe two months from now or something, we will be talking about promoting his first ever video.
I hope it won't take that long.
All right, I'm going to tell everybody a funny fact now that you just said that.
He originally planned to promote the video on the Rise of Skywalker review stream.
Yes, I know.
So, time has moved forward.
Yeah.
But that's a good thing, folks, because that means you can iron out any and all mistakes,
redraft like a lism flasm, and finally prove to the will that no one is allowed to like John Wick 3.
Exactly, that's how we do it.
Mm hmm.
And yeah, it was it was good fun.
I'll talk to you later.
Thanks for hanging out.
We'll see you around, dude.
Have a good one.
Bye.
More.
Bye.
Goodbye.
What would you say like that, Rex?
Is it because he's really ugly?
That's really harsh, Rex.
I don't know.
You can't do anything about it.
He was hitting the face with a shovel or something.
He's a beautiful.
He's a beautiful char person.
At Brackie Moraga.
Stop lying.
If you have a problem, then go on the kill stream and discuss it.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
That was to the last person.
That was the last person.
Yeah.
I always find it amazing.
All right.
Like super chats.
The back and forth are like right next to each other.
Oftentimes, it'll get tangled up at anything else.
It's like, huh.
I find it crazy that people pay money to argue with each other.
Like.
Well.
Why not?
No.
Yeah.
I was going to say, I don't actually find that too unbelievable to each other.
It's like they gotta like they can't act like they're going to just not
retort.
I mean, they're not going to take that.
They'll spend a few bucks to send a short little.
Right.
Mel's crying because you're crazy amount of money.
What are you going to make a crazy amount of money because neither one of it.
Because neither one of the people arguing wants to let it go.
You're just going to make mad dollar.
Mad dollar.
Mel posted his emote where he's teared up.
I just can't believe that you let that happen.
Mel, change your YouTube icon to your new icon.
You lazy fuck.
That's true.
He should.
He's going to upset him.
He's going to cry again.
Also, I just want to skip.
I just saw that one.
Mola rumored sequel to a quiet place.
Thoughts trailer is already out.
What do you mean?
Just rumored.
I mean, you know, it could be a lie.
I don't know.
But yeah, I don't know.
I hope it's better than the first one.
I guess like I don't.
I don't have a lot of investment in a quiet place.
I was utterly enticed by the premise and then I watched the film.
I was like, what the fuck is this nonsense?
And then I talked to Wolf about it.
And I was like, thank God.
Someone else thinks it's stupid.
Right.
What are you?
Is this something like other thing you'll often get?
Feel like he's looking at memes or something.
No, we're good.
We're fine.
No, we're fine.
Someone's tickling his toesies.
No, things are fine.
Everything's really magical right now.
When someone asks you about the only correct responses,
what is that like masturbating electronically?
Oh, well, yes, we knew that Matt knew what it was.
Also, that tells you where we are in these super chats.
Right at the right at that point.
This is just a fun personality question.
I like to ask people of the seven deadly sins,
which would you say you are most guilty of and least guilty of?
I'm most guilty, probably either pride or lust,
least guilty of gluttony.
Hmm, probably this is it.
This is an interesting question.
I'm currently deciding.
I'm assuming you are as well, guys.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I'm deciding.
I mean, least guilty of greed.
Like, I don't really care about having stuff.
What'd you say?
What?
At least guilty of greed, I think.
Like, I don't really care about having stuff at all.
Yeah, yeah, I don't feel greedy.
I think I'm looking at these thinking like,
I don't do any of these a crazy amount,
but I think I do all of them a bit like, you know,
that's where I'm stuck right now.
The most of any one.
Or the least of any.
So maybe wrath would be my least.
I really don't get angry that much at all.
I get like,
you have a series called range.
Oh, God, I mean, angry insult.
I suppose.
Yeah, because the way this is the problem,
you have to do lots of rationalizing with this.
Because like, I don't I don't see like,
I would see wrath coming out as being like,
fucking pissed to your core.
Like, hulking out a little bit.
And just like, I remember the last time
I actually got that mad.
I mostly don't mostly chill.
Um, this question is too hard.
Somebody give me the answers.
That is pretty simple.
How can rags be a dog and glutton be the least?
Because I'm not I don't just like eat to X.
Wait, hang on.
Why is gluttony directly associated with dogs?
Yeah.
Whoa.
Whoa.
Are you are you saying all dogs are fat?
Fuck dude.
What's the matter with you?
All fats are dogs.
Mm hmm.
All right.
Probably most of that list is sloth.
Like I fall in some pretty lazy traps now and again.
Then I try to break out of it.
And normally normally do pretty good.
So I think I do have a bit of an anger problem on my end.
So I think I would say wrath is probably up there.
And then the least would probably be envy.
Yeah, I'd say that I'd go with that.
I'm going to go.
It's like a tie for.
So like I said, I'm not even sure about least being wrath because
I still kind of do get your other kind of the role.
This is the problem.
I like I go through each one.
I'm like, that's probably the word that I look to the next.
I'm like, oh, and then the next one like, well,
stupid sins, they cover so many things.
Well, I got it.
Why they got to be so many sins.
Yeah.
Why can't they just be the one?
It's called sin.
Just don't do sin.
Someone's like, oh, there's over.
There's a fat next for reading.
That's the fluff, the fluff, the fluffs.
Do you not understand?
I'm a she be.
I'm ticker the mental, spiritual, pathological,
physical states find as an absence or interest in habitual
disinclination to exertion.
Well, I was a lot of long words.
Bob didn't say that he's a Nazi.
Like.
I'm actually fascinated by this.
I'm trying to see which one sort of fits the best.
Is.
Wait, wait, wait.
Did this person pay you enough money for you to be talking
about the question for this long?
I'm in that's not how that works.
This is only expect a little bit better from you.
Thanks.
Who was it that does that?
Well, see, this is only a $2 question.
Oh, you were referencing.
Oh, that's.
He was it that says more money longer the answer,
like after every super chat.
He just called it dusty.
Oh, call the dusty does that.
Well, I think he sees it as fair.
Like the more you pay the more ads that you get.
It's only it's only one to one.
I'm I guess I'll go with with still with that.
It's like even I don't even want to go with wrath is least
because like I don't know if that's true.
What about if you get rags?
What would you say from what you know about me is least and most
this is probably end up being something I could totally infer things
from from your assessment.
Let me make sure I got my list.
Okay.
Let's see.
Okay.
I would say.
Uh.
Shut up.
Oh, so you can jump in and you're less gluttony in the pride.
I was I guess if I had to say that your most would be.
Hmm.
How much are you?
Are you a fat man?
It might be gluttony.
But there's the thing.
I'm very not wasteful.
I'm very to a point with everything else.
Like I would probably say, yeah, food is one of the ones
that I gluttony could apply to this kind of the problem.
Like I don't really doesn't extend much of anything else.
I might go with gluttony, but it's about food.
It's not about greed.
So because greed and gluttony are two different things.
Sure.
Well, Mike and that, but the thing is consumption of anything
to the point of waste.
And I'm like, that only necessarily I think apply to food.
Like my consumption of everything else is pretty well.
At least I thought it was.
Maybe it isn't.
Maybe I watch videos too much.
Maybe I spend too much time doing some things.
I don't know.
I wouldn't.
Yeah, I don't know.
I guess about, yeah, I don't.
I certainly don't think you're envious or lustful.
You don't get too angry.
I don't think you get angry.
Really pretty level headed.
Don't think greed applies.
It's certainly not sloth.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's it's tough.
Yeah.
Sloth is your least item.
I think the other problem with this
is describing any one of these as my least could come across
as super fucking vain.
Like sloth couldn't apply to me.
I'm such a hard worker.
You work really hard for.
For me, I'd say you are not your least greedy.
Which one for most?
I'm going to have to take the gluttony L on.
I think you might.
I mean, I don't even know.
I don't even know you're eating habits.
So I'm not about to make the assumption, but you get.
I don't think this is the thing.
I would think they're the ones that gluttony is the one
that's hard for you guys to judge outside of a couple of things,
while something like pride should be pretty clear.
Same for wrath and sloth should be evident
from my output of just content.
If that's what we're talking about, which is again,
that's not something I can hide.
You've seen what I do.
So then lust is such a neutral one for me.
Both.
Yes, I know.
Like this is just like.
It's like show me a picture of a really good piece.
I'm like, yeah, lust.
A lot of chat seem to think pride would work.
You think so?
No, I have a trouble with that one.
Yeah, I don't I don't.
Mola popped off his answer to the guess.
What's it is that?
I can't believe you're spending like 20 minutes
on this three second super chat.
Shut up.
Long.
Mola is very long.
Your biggest sin is the long.
But long apply to the seven sins.
Maybe that would be great.
Then you're taking up everybody's time.
So you're so very greedy.
But then again, I said.
So I can't say that.
The long is glutton.
I mean, you could put it there.
So if glutton's most, what was least?
So that I said greed for least sleep, sleep, sleep.
I think sloth fine.
I will take sloth released and glutton for most.
There we go.
We did it.
But yeah, we all four did it, right?
Yeah, yeah.
It's more discussing the plot for seven.
Seven's good shit.
Terv rags.
I feel like that's another one of them languages.
Cusi, heresi.
What is this?
What am I doing?
What is this land garage?
I need to get to Google translate.
I shall discover the truth.
Yes, I know.
Oh, so I guess.
I guess, would you be able to reply to them in that language ranks?
That's what I was thinking.
No.
All you have to do is say that first word I posted.
People saying hi rags in different languages now.
Maybe.
Is that going to be a meme?
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know if that is.
Grittentog rags.
Hola.
More or less say this.
Cocco.
Cocco.
I think.
Cocco.
Cocco.
Cocco.
Cocco.
Cocco.
Cocco.
Cocco.
The way they did it.
Dude, what the fuck?
I don't know.
That's full.
Guess we'll find out one day.
Silver Age Superman comics from around the 50s were infamous for giving him whatever
superpower they thought of that month.
Sounds like it could be annoying.
Yeah.
People watching that film already knew who Superman was.
He's the most iconic comic book character ever.
There's no need to set up his flying ability.
Well, I think that's the argument he was making.
It's like he's pretty established as the guy who flies.
So he has to fly.
They kind of did.
The kind of knowledge of something has a valid reason for it to be, you know,
is a valid reason.
It doesn't need to be explained in the film.
It's like no one needs to explain to you who Hitler is when you're watching a World War II movie.
Interesting thought.
I was just going to say though,
but if they establish that he's a dude with powers, flying is not out of the question at
that point.
Like if that is the what we're introduced to him as like, okay, so yeah.
Who knows what we're going to do?
So it was weird in the end.
All he all he did was argue that people like Superman flying because they're sexist.
Internet gay story is in the chat.
Hello there.
Yeah.
Hello.
Hello.
He said a lot of rags.
Oh, hello rags.
Okay.
Predator versus expendables.
Who dies first?
Hi all.
I mean, because
Predator versus expendables.
Actually, wait.
Expendables would win.
I die first.
The thing is, the reason that the dudes in predator managed to eventually quote unquote
win is because he figured out the thing.
If he hadn't figured out the thing, which the expendables, you know,
we can't assume they would have, who knows?
I don't know.
That one's, it really depends on the environment and how intelligent a lot of the crew are.
Because they're expendables people.
I can't remember characters really.
The expendables.
I mean, I assume that like, if they're supposed to be like old action stars anyway, I mean,
they did beat predator.
Yeah, they figured him out now.
So he flew once in season two, then not till the end.
That's about small bill.
And yeah, I remember that happening being like, oh my God.
And then they just like, don't do any of it again for a while.
He's like, of course, movies and TV shows have value.
Its value is measured by if worth my time and money to see.
Surrealism is a different art in films or painting.
Nothing to do with sci-fi or fantasy.
Buniel in film, Dali in painting is surrealism.
Sorry, my English.
I'm Madrilina.
All right.
Emotional stakes rely on our knowledge of what can or can't happen based on the rules
of the setting.
If these rules are broken, the emotional stakes will suffer.
How can these people not get that?
Well, that's the interesting part for me is that I think that if they concede that a
character choice, which is extremely important, can often be enabled or disabled by their
abilities as a character and those abilities are related to powers that we are given rules on.
And those rules randomly change.
That is a problem.
Yeah.
Plot hole.
Yeah.
And so if they go like, those ones do matter.
Yes.
And you're like, right.
And you've determined that by contradiction rather than contradiction plus.
So what I would say is the contradiction makes them an error.
And then contradiction plus impact determines essentially what we were looking on the,
on the, you know, that one didn't do anything.
Or that one goes, oh my God, that ruined everything.
And if they concede that, then they're pretty much on our team at that point, right?
Because we're like, yeah, that's what we call nitpicks is when we highlight them,
but they don't really do fuckle.
But I feel like they sort of just say nice old nitpicks.
Like, okay.
Yep.
If movie Bob was Jeffrey Epstein cellmate, I'd have actually believed he committed suicide.
Movie Bob is the great unifier.
He really is a Nazi.
Yes.
The B virus.
Imagine Neo cloning himself.
Only he envelops you and spits out another bulb after that.
Yeah.
That's what Jay's idea was.
Yeah.
I was picturing more waters of Mars.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
You know, the scene where they're like, they're spraying each other with the wetness.
Really hot.
Yeah.
I mean, cold.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah.
If you vote wrong,
water isn't always cold.
Fucking idiot.
That's not what I said.
He said cold because water.
Yeah.
But when I was referencing it, I didn't, that's, I didn't say water is always cold.
Why don't you think women can fight?
Because they don't have superpowers.
You need that to be able to fight.
You've gotta, the only way a woman could be a man is
that is the Efab quote right there.
He's afraid.
The only way a woman can be a man is with a super power.
The woman who beats a man superhero.
Yes.
Queen slay.
Um, well, yeah.
Rags, you've seen, uh, FMA brotherhood.
You, if you're lust, you get to be a sexy lust lady.
I don't know.
Lust is that what you wait or we're talking about Hawkeye.
Cause he had a whole guy.
What are we talking about?
Hey, hang on.
He's a Hawkeye.
No, no, no, no, no, FMA brotherhood.
Yeah.
Who's Hawkeye?
Oh, fuck the blonde girl.
No, I'm talking about the actual sins.
Oh yeah.
I'd be, I'd be lust.
I'd have the big old titties and spooky fingers.
By the way, it's been so long since I've seen those.
I might actually need to rewatch them because I said we should totally do that
because I haven't seen it in a while.
Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, absolutely.
You seem more like envy to me.
You know, you feel like it's like more envy.
No, I just turn into shit.
No, I was thinking about cock.
I don't know.
There's a few, there's a few scenes where everybody's like, man, cock.
Yes.
If you vote wrong and only Cinnabaribertos vote counts,
is he now movie Ayatollah Bob?
Also High Rags.
Hello.
And Ayamoula, hello.
And Jay with his sexy, sick voice.
I don't know why at all.
Sexy, sick voice.
Jay, are you a bum chaser?
I was like, I got sick and my voice go deeper.
Oh, the guy corrected the neo cloning thing.
And he was like, no, I mean, Smith.
Crap, I'm stupid.
So yeah, when Smith like puts his hand in people and then he's like,
Google, it's that, but with Bob.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It doesn't pop to that anyway.
Probably not going to confirm or deny.
I still, my favorite is still Bob spreading blue cream.
That's once he's evolved, it absorbed enough Bob's.
They all go into each other and they become a big bowl of blue cream
that spreads across the galaxy.
Oh my God.
Uh, you should check out the Ebony gamers, the Ebony podcast one.
It's a solid rebuttal to a Jim Sterling video.
It got dislike bombed by Jim's fans.
Oh boy.
What's the, what's it called again?
The Ebony podcast one.
Ebony podcast one.
Sexualization of women in video game.
That sounds like something that, uh, that sounds like something
that Jim would get fucking wrong.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
If I have, if I have a moment, I shall check it out.
Oh, speaking of that accent, I watched board V Ferrari.
How was it?
Very good.
I enjoyed it.
The, the, the acts did the well.
They did the well, very well.
Christian Bale.
I have heard only good things about it.
Christian Bale did a great job and so did Matt Damon.
And it's, it's a really neat little story and, and the direction is sweet.
Cause you, you get, you get very, uh, the adrenaline gets pumping
when you get to the climaxes of many moments with the racing.
And, uh, and it's really cool to watch a thing being done well by a person
when I have no idea what this whole thing is, like the whole racing tisms.
I liked it a lot.
I give it a thumb up with another thumb on top of it.
This facing also up.
You know, they should call NASCAR people, that's car drivers.
If you drive NASCAR, they should call you a racist.
They probably do anyway.
Yeah.
100%, 100%.
Think flamingos kill everyone clip, but it's Bob it.
Oh yeah.
There's so many names for him.
It's just infinite.
I wonder how he feels about all that.
And there are a lot of names for him.
Yeah.
And people like him.
Smallville Clark was legitimately my favorite part in crisis on infinite
earths.
I want him to punch something.
Smallville Clark should have punched something.
How is that me?
Yeah.
I don't care.
Well, you know what?
I'm wrong on both counts.
It's like, you're also powers.
Why do you want to see him punch stuff?
Also, he did punch Lex.
So he actually punched him with that.
See, it was like, Oh, fuck.
He punched Lex.
It's good enough.
Uh, hello.
How rags.
Hello.
Do you think Amanda season two can be good?
Yeah.
All right.
Nailed it.
Well, I mean, yeah, there's no reason it can't be good.
The thing that's come closest to the whole, can it even be good?
Is rise of Skywalker.
We were like, can it be good with being a sequel to the one?
It's like, you know, there's always room.
There's always a wiggle room to just pull out that little win.
Crisis infinite systems, episode five.
Yeah.
You just, so this is the thing.
We can press the nuclear salvage something.
Look, we can hit the nuclear button as we always can in these sort of stories.
If we're allowing this, and that is character wakes up.
Surely that was worse than episode.
Surely that was a lower chance than rise of Skywalker is what I meant.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I'm going to agree with you.
Yes.
Yes.
It was how you're wrong.
Fuck you.
Wait, who are you talking to?
You.
No, no.
I mean, names, names.
You unless my Asian like a martial arts teacher.
That's a joke from rush hour three.
You'll see that.
Aha.
Well, it's also a real game.
Well, that's irrelevant to my joke because I'm stealing the joke from something else.
I literally I put it in a big bag with a dollar sign on it and ran off.
I fucking destroy you.
Oh, well.
I could try a little harder.
Almost two hours late.
Oh, well.
Money for the long man and belly rubs for the good doggo.
Also kick J.
No, really kick him now.
Oh, my God.
And rag seems to be aiming back legs.
His hind legs to order.
Oh, there you go.
He got him.
Give this commie a ride on a helicopter of color.
T.M.. What?
I don't want to make it that way.
Movie Bob is still around.
I haven't seen any of his content in years,
but I thought he was very left wing.
Jack Saint Twitter followers.
Oh, that's what Jack Saint says.
Like, apparently, that's a quote from Jack Saint from Twitter.
Oh, oh,
that'd be for long enough for it to be funny.
Yes, we did a laugh.
You got kicked.
So are you rebound it?
You came all the way around the world and back again.
You have to try kicking you again in a bit.
See what we can do.
I just like the idea that movie Bob isn't even left wing to the left wing.
It's like you're just crazy way.
Crazy way.
Well, yeah, right.
You know, if I described it as crazy, you'd probably agree with that.
But then you wouldn't.
Well, I don't know, actually.
Would you conclude that I'm.
Man, I don't think he's like clinically insane.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But like calling him crazy is nice and simple, right?
Yeah, fucking crazy.
Because I think I think we concluded earlier in the stream that a rational is the word to go for.
Do you think movie Bob is irrational?
I think that's very unfair.
He's he's the most reasonable man on Twitter.
Man, I mean, what if we are all like no one no one can be free of their own perspective.
So what if we are the insane ones and he's the only rational person in the world?
Independent confirmation.
You know, disproves that, Jay, is that you suggested it.
Well, he would never have the self-awareness to suggest that.
To think, wait, what if I'm wrong about things?
I'm not inside his head.
What would I know?
No, no, but I know.
Feel sorry for you.
Then again, we did just take a test based on knowing him.
So you must be doing pretty well.
Who scored a high point?
We scored a passing grade.
Infinites that we've got five minds working on.
Yep.
It would be really funny to see someone who doesn't know anything about movie Bob take
that test because they might be like, are you serious?
He said some of these.
At this point, I think you dumbbells aren't watching Hardcore Henry just because it's
financially beneficial for you.
Not really.
I just want you to feel guilty.
It's the guy who's super chance.
How would it be financially beneficial for us to not watch it?
So that he keeps super chatting us to watch it.
Gonna get there.
There's just a lot of movies to catch up with.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I don't know if you read this during super check catch up,
but will you be reviewing the Clone Wars?
I don't intend to review it.
I do intend to watch it at some point, though.
No promises as to when.
I don't make any fun.
Oh, but what if we criticize it and then everyone says that he hates George Lucas Star Wars?
That's just a burden you're going to have to bear.
Well, oh, my God.
Someone said Pump Then Yump, Mark.
I feel like that might be a reference to my Soma series.
Ah, yeah, it was.
Pump the Yump.
Pump the Yump, Mark.
He was fun to watch play Soma.
Especially with how fucking depressing that game is.
I had a friend play that recently and it fucked her up forever.
It it has the ability to do that.
Yeah, play it.
That sounds like fun.
Yeah, the gender strength.
Wait, we're going to say.
Fun is one way to describe it.
Yeah, I mean, that's a semantic thing for you.
Engaging is how I would definitely describe it.
Inscribe it.
Yeah, my brain is melting for sure.
I mean, unless you're writing on it.
Uh, the gender strength difference isn't that small.
Male criminals have been caught on camera beating three trained police women.
Yeah, man.
Guys are on average way stronger than women.
Wait, but it said the gender strength difference to the whole the Black Widow thing.
I'm confused.
It says the gender strength difference isn't that small.
Meaning that it's large, but then it's got a correction.
Male criminal bad phrasing.
Oh, so it's male criminal a maker.
So one guy beat three trained police women.
Okay.
I mean, that's that's still anecdotal evidence.
Was it?
Well, it wouldn't matter if we had like, no, no, even if we had literal.
No, shut the fuck up.
If we had a little recording of it, it would still be one instance.
And we don't know the specifics of the dude and the women like how they are on the average scale.
He could be a roided monster creature person.
And they could be three rookies who just died.
You know, we don't know for sure.
But we all accept at this point that on average,
a man is going to have larger muskles than a wamans.
Right.
That's just the absolute.
Yeah.
Okay.
Sorry to be that guy, but I really think that this video is cynically calculated.
If that bait your response to it is the equivalent of criticizing shark NATO for being a bad movie.
But he makes the thing is,
if some of the stuff he said was true, as in if cinema sin said she cannot beat these
guys because she's a woman, he would be wrong.
He's never swear.
He's never said that.
In essence.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, the only thing then we have left is that as long as somebody said that,
and that he's referencing that somebody, then his point is fair to say that that's
not a good argument.
And we can use that as a springboard to talk about why someone might make that argument
and where they're failing and where that argument would be valid.
It's the same with Ralph's video when they're like, if Ralph's video is just a complete bait,
it's like, oh, we still get to explore the arguments, right?
So it's like, no, it's never going to be a waste of time.
Yeah.
I don't mind too much.
Um, and it's, and you definitely get the, and like, if they really going to pull the
fucking idiots, I was already pretending to be retarded.
I just, I just referred them to the beaver at that point.
Yeah.
Okay.
What else does he make?
Ralph?
No, the objective is human.
Oh, I used to think.
No, I think it's real.
He has a video on the Joker called comedy and masculinity.
Of course he does.
Yeah, it makes sense that he would have that video.
I used to think Master Chief's name was Halo and I thought it was pronounced hall zero.
That's like one of the most boomeriest things ever is people think that the Master Chief's
name is Halo.
Is that one I'm calling Savus Metroids?
And then the, how does Metroid crawl be?
Or, uh, Linka Zelda.
You know, there's some jokes in this world that just like generate so much laughter over time.
And despite like, they don't lose their potency when you return to them after a decent chunk of
time.
Um, the fucking, how does Metroid crawl picture?
Like it just, I'm so happy that we're in a world that that happened.
Like someone actually asked that question.
It's beautiful.
That's what I would call artwork because it's the photo was crafted by somebody and it was
designed to make me feel certain emotions.
And I do every time artwork definitive or frame it.
The dude's most recent video is called.
You are literally a metaphor.
Rags go.
Cool.
You are literally a metaphor.
Yeah.
Rags bite him.
You are attacked.
That's not, you can be literally a metaphor though.
How?
I'm not a metaphor is.
Representive.
Wait, hang on.
The metaphor is representative of the thing without comparison as in.
Not.
I know what it means.
I just am not explaining it well.
Yes.
I'm just going with yes.
Cool.
Rags still alive.
There's, um, yeah, I'm here.
That's the profile.
Um, it's got, uh, videos about Star Trek about socialism.
Star Trek isn't about socialism.
Calling for a queer creator strike in response to Steven Crowder.
Of course.
What a faggot.
Queer creator strike is like, Oh yeah.
Well, we're just not gonna make videos.
Yeah.
All the people who wouldn't give a shit.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, oh yeah.
And that ends with the thumbnail says why a Nazi so easily offended.
I mean, imagine cause they're Nazis, but
wait, why would a Nazi be easily offended?
Are Nazis easily offended?
Uh, it's, I think so.
I had no idea.
Is that something to do with being a Nazi?
Like, are you actually concluded that or are you just, I'm confused?
Well, I think it's probably the, I mean, well, I was going to say it's to do with
the loudest, um, you know, the loudest part of every group is going to be like,
just people getting offended by stuff loudly.
Like that's probably every group now.
Like true Nazis are the loud part of like, you know,
you don't get a doubt.
There are many quiet Nazis.
All I wanted to do is wait.
How would you know if they were quiet?
I realized that I was saying it and that's what I went.
That's why I said, hang on.
I doubt there are.
All right.
Uh, and that, that, that hell zero comment ended with high rags.
Hi.
And Jay, wish me a happy pee pee.
Have a happy pee pee.
Training is a pathway to many abilities.
Some consider to be unnatural.
Black widow.
Um, I mean, most of the stuff she does could be considered natural, right?
The only thing I ever really remember off the top of my head is when she, um,
she jumps on cap shield up to the Chitauri thing.
It backflips onto it and then kills the, all the guards that are there.
And then like jumps onto the back of the driver and stabs two knives
into his shoulder blades and starts piloting the ship with him.
I remember being like, fucking hell.
No, she trained for that.
That's what I mean.
He's like, I can see you doing a lot of things to humans, but like,
how did, how did you know any of that was that?
Just like, all right.
Uh, I'd like it if Jay would stop mischaracterizing Stefan Molyneux.
Literally you're doing to him what your critics do to you right now.
Um, I've seen him, like I've seen the quotes.
So unless it's surrounded by, this is a joke, by the way, then whatever.
I suppose, um, I haven't seen like significant portions of
work from him to make a claim like I have with movie Bob.
Like dude is fucking crazy either way.
Anyway, it's like, I think I've seen him get quoted by Sean on Twitter a bunch of times.
Did you see the shit he was saying?
The most recent one I remember is like Taylor, the Taylor Swift shit.
What do you say?
Oh, oh, the, the fertility thing.
Is it?
Yeah.
Where he was quoting about fertility to Taylor Swift and telling her to become a mom.
Is she having fertility issues?
No, he he's, um, she's getting older and he's like better have kids before it's too late.
I mean,
it's just strange.
Like that's a strange thing to say, but okay.
Um, simplistic thinking and incorrect syllogism, syllogism, syllogism, the major,
the major premise should always be a universal premise.
Yoder is really a bad thing when analyzing anything.
Very well, uh, more than you does not say that any man can beat up any woman.
It's about averages and that culture in general gives an inflated image of women's capabilities.
Capacities.
Yeah, I, I, I do.
I'm not going to believe without a screenshot or something that he said a woman can't beat up a man.
Yeah, well, see, that's the thing.
If you told me anyone said that, I'd be like, do they really?
And I'd be curious if they would hold that position after one minute of questioning.
Thread.
He says a lot of creepy stuff in the replies.
It's strange to think that 90% of her eggs are already gone.
97 by the time she turns 40.
So I hope she thinks about having kids before it's too late.
She'd be a fun mom.
That is a strange tweet.
That's really weird.
It's odd.
It's not, I think odd is really all I'd describe it as though.
Well, it's like with his profile, you can like, oh, I see where that comes from.
Like considering the other stuff he says.
Well, just what a weird thing to think about.
I don't see this.
I guess it's like if Bragg said it or something, I just be like, why is this on your mind?
That seems strange.
Why is anything on anyone's mind?
I'd be like, okay.
Why not?
I mean, if he's getting at the idea that this the.
Like encouraging women to not have kids or get married and stuff.
Like I certainly think that that's a mistake to encourage and
like to actively go out and say don't have kids or don't get married.
Just like just to say, just to do like the opposite.
It's like people can live their lives as they want.
Sure, is that what he's saying, though?
No, well, I don't know.
He just said a weird thing.
I like this one the most though.
All aspects of personality are influenced by genetics.
Both my parents were institutionalized.
Separate tweets, separate occasions.
Um, I mean, influenced by genetics.
That can mean literally like the least.
I know, I know.
It's it's not.
I'm not saying, oh, my God.
This proves it's like it's just funny.
It's funny to think that Stefan Molyneux got his parents institutionalized.
I'm not saying that's what happened, but it's funny to think about.
But I'm, yeah, I'm sure that both of those things are true.
Let's see.
I can't believe Taylor Swift's about to turn 30.
She still looks so young.
It's strange to think that 90% of her eggs are already gone.
97% by the time she turned 40.
I hope she thinks about having kids before it's too late.
It's going to be a fun mom smiley fact.
Yeah, that's just strange.
Yeah, it's not harmful tweet.
It's just great.
But at the same time, it's the phrasing is just strange.
Very strange.
Their eggs are drying.
Like if I was really on his mind, I was like, yeah, talk to your friends about that, I guess,
but like put it on Twitter.
Why also 18,000 likes.
Wow.
Okay, I think he probably got ratioed a bit.
Hang on.
I'm probably curious as far as what.
What like what is the relationship between women hitting menopause and not having kids
and like depression and stuff of that nature?
I'm curious if there's any correlation link in there.
Apparently, and I don't remember where I got this from.
So I can't cite anything.
Don't quote me on it.
But people who don't have kids are happier in the amount of time that like their kids
would be living with them.
Like having kids living with you makes you less happy statistically.
Then after your kids leave home, you're statistically happier than people who have
never had kids.
I can.
So I guess having kids is stressful when it happens.
Yeah, it's super stressful.
But then once you get that behind you, you're like, man, I've got kids.
I've added to the world.
That's statistical.
So it's not going to, you know, it's not a rule.
Yeah, I've heard it described as when you don't have kids, your the highest happiness
you can get is anywhere between like six and seven and like the lowest the saddest
you've ever been is like maybe two to three.
But then when your kids, it becomes 10 and zero.
I don't remember where I'd heard that, but I guess they say like, you're right.
I would be very interested in watching it.
In fact, I think I'm going to look for it right now.
Yeah.
But basically, they say you once you have kids, you do become the happiest,
but also the saddest in your whole life because you're like living a heck of a
lot more than before.
That's what I've heard it described it as.
Oh, I'll look.
In fact, I'll actually message her and see if she can link me to it
because I'd be interested to see that she's done some really,
really good videos going over studies and stats and stuff.
Um, I, I hate it when you start typing and your fingers are off by one spot,
like left to right.
And so you think you're typing normally is eyes like, hey, instead, it says Joe.
In Shad's can women's sword video, he references a good scene from a bad
Tomb Raider movie where she fights a guy two times her size and for the first half,
she's losing, then she fights smarter and wins.
Yeah, there's a possibility you can.
There's loads of fighting styles and martial arts that rely on using your
opponent's power against them.
Right.
Or their weight.
Absolutely.
Looking for openings, timing.
I mean, weapons are an incredible, you know, power equalizer, depending on the weapon.
Orca, I can shoot a USB arrow right into the USB port during a gun fight.
I need three goes when I'm sitting on my PC and I have all the time in the
world.
I like any three goes.
I know this.
I know this feel.
Imagine thinking it's not PC enough to suggest that a woman you accept as one
of the deadliest people on earth might have problems killing space monsters and gods.
This was the, this is the funny elevation of it, right?
Because you're like, well, she's, she's not an average person.
She's this, and you explain all these things.
You're like, uh-huh, uh-huh.
And you're like, so of course she's going to be able to win all kinds of fights.
You're like, yes, but she's fighting against stuff that's not normal either.
Like I said, anybody who could beat her is a force to be reckoned with.
Oh, Shad's in chat.
Hello, sir.
I hope you're feeling good.
Better, better.
Eight women like we did.
I did do because we still do.
We used to, but we also still do.
Elon Musk announces the Sith aren't the only ones to have mastered the dark art of cloning.
Do you sign up for the cloning program?
What would you do with your very own clone?
No, no, no, no.
I'd fuck my asshole.
So too many.
My brain would be lol.
I'd be like, I can't deal with two of us.
That's weird.
You get yourself to edit your own videos.
I think I'd be all right.
I think I'd be okay.
I don't know how everything would work.
Which one gets to live as the original?
We will get.
Yeah.
Whose family is it?
First one would the non-clone would get to.
Oh, so you get to slavify it.
Yeah, that's a word.
No, I didn't say that.
So what happened?
Like, why?
How do you think rags is going to feel about that rags?
Honestly, I think he wouldn't exist without me.
And if he knew me, he I mean, I think I'd be able to cope with it fairly well.
Especially because of like, I know myself so well that I just.
Think I'd be okay.
I think the biggest trouble would be like the paperwork.
Fair enough.
Uh, I don't know.
There's just, I'm anticipating a shit ton of questions that I won't be able to answer
efficiently, I think.
Whoa, what about like family rights in terms of.
Okay.
Like, do they would.
Are they technically a citizen at that point or not?
I would assume so.
Well, they would be born slash created here.
Um, they would be so a citizen created them.
So in on US soil, so that they would be naturalized as citizens in that sense.
Wonder if you would like hold any resentment for the idea of just.
You've always take care of him, right?
Ranks like if he was if he was unable to, I wouldn't need to.
Why not?
He's he's a well, I would get him started.
But he'd probably like live with me, but I wouldn't have to like,
take care of him in the sense that he'd be like a child.
No, I'm talking strictly about, uh, like if he just, he's looped and he's like,
where do I stay?
And you're like, bye.
He's like, we're going to hell out of that.
I assume that if he, we might get, we might just fucking live together and be roommates and shit.
That'd be so weird because like he wants to chill out on your PC and you're like,
yeah, that's cool.
And then I get into a cold and I'm like, so, you know, we talked about earlier and he's like,
huh?
And I'm like, oh, fuck, which one of you?
Because because we'd start diverging.
Um,
No, of course.
He he won a computer and I'd get him one of those and get him set up.
And we'd probably, I mean, we would probably pull bank accounts.
I would trust.
Yeah, it's me.
Exactly, though.
You're going to like, so when he.
I'm so like, how does this we'd almost be like this weird quasi tag team sort of thing.
I feel like it's going to cause conflict at some point, like certain decisions getting made.
Can't imagine that you'd always agree, right?
Because as soon as you diverge, you'll start different things and then watching different
things and hang out with different people enough and then making different videos or
doing different whenever that happens.
I just decided I want to watch this TV show now.
Rags.
I mean, whatever that happens, I would be aware of that point.
Like we would be similar enough to where I would understand as a clone
that I can't like, I don't have a right to be a quote unquote parasite in some way.
And I would know that eventually I would diverge from him substantially enough to where
it would just be time to move on.
And so you would either do the dual bank thing then, right?
Probably at first, I'd be all right with it.
Some people record your naive view.
I think Rags just trust that he wouldn't get myself.
Yeah.
Rags trust that he wouldn't fuck himself over.
I think with it.
This was like naive as opposed to doing what?
Tell me what the non naive thing to do with your clone would be.
I just wouldn't have a clone.
I just like I said, I don't want to deal with all of the questions, the potentials.
But I mean, hey, there's lots of benefits to it.
If you did, I mean, if I woke up one day and climbed out of a tank,
and it was me on the other side and said, I cloned you from myself.
I made a perfect copy of myself.
And you is like all of your memories, everything like that.
Those are just residual from me.
Your life has just begun.
If he could prove to me that I really was a clone,
because I wouldn't believe him at first, because I would have all these memories
and I would trust my memories over this stranger.
But then you'd be like, see, you look exactly like me.
Here's all the work.
In fact, I have a video of it.
Oh, man.
Yeah, I was just thinking.
You wouldn't need that.
You'd remember cloning yourself.
You'd know exactly what had happened.
Let me see what I remember.
No, you will.
How could it work?
It's a pen.
You remember starting the process.
You remember going through the process in the beginning.
Yeah, I suppose so.
Yeah, if you if like, sat down in a chair, got scanned, stood up,
pressed like whatever buttons.
And then the guy was like plumed and just happens instantly.
And then he walks out.
The last thing he remembers was just sitting down in that other chair
and then seeing rags operating something.
Right.
That's probably what it would be like.
Probably.
I mean, I would still tape it for just in case.
I want to see this happen now.
You know, I think I would like.
I think I would be able to just accept that.
You're on my test first instance of human cloning on rags.
Like I mean, he seems to be on board with it.
Yeah, it's like I'd be able to cope with it.
And if anything is like.
I mean, you're you're a healthy young guy.
You have all these skills and talents.
They're like, you wouldn't have even existed if it wasn't for me.
And I mean, you could do whatever you want with yourself.
But like, what if you know what you what he'd want to do with
himself because you you can imagine a situation where you wake up in a vat.
You would want to continue your relationships with family members and friends.
Right.
But you and him would diverge as in.
Let's say he really wanted to hang out and watch stuff with me.
And then I would have to I would have to clarify with both of you,
which one of you are at what times.
Oh, you're a fucking nightmare for us.
Those memories are with you.
A different name is the thing.
Yeah, he would have to choose some kind of different name.
And but you get that right.
Right.
If you if you were the clone right now and then he said to you like you might
like you wouldn't I'm assuming you'd still want to hang out with us.
Right.
Oh, yeah.
Like if I was the clone.
Yeah.
I probably would want to, but I wouldn't.
Hmm.
I think that would be difficult as if you both.
I mean, I don't see any reason you wouldn't both hang out at the same time.
And that would just be telling your voices apart would be the problem.
I don't have to.
Yeah, I don't think Rags would want that because that would cause problems too.
I wouldn't want to put that burden on my creator.
One of them would have to have some weird vocal affectation.
Would you theoretically then like want to you probably live with your
creator for a bit to get on your feet and then you just move on and have your own life?
Yeah.
Yeah.
To some degree.
Yeah.
It almost sounds like your your intention there then overall was just to create a new
life that can experience good things.
That seems to be your actual overall goal, almost.
I mean, yeah, I don't want to control it.
I have no right to do that.
No, of course need like, yeah, there's lots of ways you can take this question.
That's the thing.
I know that I wouldn't have to control my clone.
My clone would probably just want to like do similar things to the things that I do.
So, you know, I would probably collaborate on a lot of stuff anyway.
Yeah, absolutely.
And that'd be okay with but I wouldn't like my clone.
Assuming that I was a clone, I wouldn't feel like I'd have a right to have access
to people that I've never met.
Like I wouldn't like I wouldn't consider my parents like my parents
because that's they didn't raise me.
That's pretty upsetting there.
I was gonna say that's gonna be tough.
No, I don't think so.
It would probably be hard upsetting.
I mean, it would be sad in a way, sure.
But I don't know, like if I woke up tomorrow and my creator,
quote unquote said like, right, you have life and appreciate all these things you have now.
Thanks to me.
You can't speak to memories of people that you love.
You can't speak to your friends and family.
Well, no, like, even if even if it's a phase thing,
like you can talk to them for the next few weeks, but then you gotta cut that off.
Like, I'd be like, man,
I suppose I could see myself being like, I mean, I get to live, so.
And it's not necessarily, quote unquote, mine.
If I'm a clone.
Now we're getting into some serious, like, deep question.
How long, when did we start this super chat?
I don't know.
It's an interesting question.
And I certainly would not suggest that a lot of people could,
I think I can handle it in a way that's a way better than most people could.
Like, I think I can handle that kind of existential acceptance
that I don't think a lot of people could in the same capacity.
Rags, you seem very well suited for that kind of thing.
I vote for rags to be the test subject for the first clone.
As long as it doesn't him.
I vote to comes out like this horrifying creature that's like,
No, I am the real Rogs.
Here's the fake one.
You're like, motherfucker.
Look at you.
Correct.
That's your cloning, cloning yourself.
But instead of your body, it's just your consciousness.
And you can choose anyone's body that your clone gets to have.
Who's is it?
Anybody that my clone gets to have.
I don't know.
That's something I.
Would you consider marrying yourself at that point?
It's not.
I mean, you know, you'll get along with that person.
I know.
There are a lot of people I feel like wouldn't get along with
himself too well.
Like a lot of people would clash with themselves.
Do you think you get along with yourself, right?
I think I get along really well with myself.
Yeah, I wasn't.
I wasn't including rags in that.
Wow.
Excluding right along really well with myself.
I think I would just like I would be sitting looking at myself perspective.
It's like, I don't know.
I mean, obviously there's some there's some.
Some guesswork involved, but I think knowing myself as well as I do.
I would be able to.
Clone won't have Mupa run.
He's had a lover.
The clone would impede on that relationship.
No, I don't think I would.
I think that I have an I think I have an understanding of other people's.
Personal autonomy and I would I would understand and I would know that any
relationships or feelings that I had would be essentially another person's memories that I'm
just I could see rags being the kind of business like I'm going to go and pursue and create a whole
bunch of new relationships.
Yeah, like I would be like I have.
Why would I plus I would know that this would cause incredible strain on the person who created
me like I would understand that I am not the individual that is associated with all of these
memories.
And if I pursued those things, not only would those relationships deteriorate to a point
where it would be destructive, but it would also cause incredible anguish on the person
who made me.
It would essentially your movie.
Your story doing this sounds like it'd be a great movie.
Right.
I mean, I don't know.
I think I would be I would think I'd be all right with it enough to the point where it
might not be.
I think someone who is really would have a lot more struggles with me would be a more
interesting movie.
I would.
That's what my challenge would be for you to write this, but to find the thing is like
the whole point of the story would be that it all seems to be working out fantastically,
but then do your best to think of what could be the thing that fucks it all up.
I have trouble with this one because like at first, it would probably be really cool.
You can get make him do double the work that you already know and all that shit.
But then after a while of having the perfect knowledge of your past experiences with family
and friends and the people you loved and everything like that to just say, Oh, I can't
see these people anymore, even though I know everything about them because somebody else
gets to after a while, I wouldn't I wouldn't even see it like that.
I wouldn't even see it as I can't see them anymore.
It's like, I can't see them for the first time in my life.
It's like, I can't see them for the first time.
And I and I probably would anyway.
I wouldn't like completely cut this clone out of my life and say that he can't.
Like.
You know, like know the people I know.
But he has to be his own person.
I mean, of course, he he he would be.
It's Jake W rags clone.
You would kill it immediately.
How could that be a rags clone at that point?
It's going to be this crazy bizarro rags.
Got his neck flue fall, died up and cut on one end and swooped over the other.
My God, imagine a rags that like gets offended all the time.
And then like people say, hi rags.
And he's just like, I'm sorry, what?
Also, yes, the sixth day someone just referenced that is a film
that does what we're talking about to a degree.
I remember it.
Arnold Schwarzenegger.
So, Jay, how would you do with your own clone?
Would you kill it?
Do you immediately beat it?
I know.
I feel like I feel like I'm not.
No, I wouldn't.
I wouldn't assume that.
In fact, I've been pretty clear that it would diverge from me immediately.
But but the core personality would take a while to change.
If it would at all at that point, while the change.
What would be your motivation for doing it in the first place?
Oh, I I don't know if I would in the first place.
I might.
I mean, it would be.
I don't know.
I honestly don't know.
Because obviously the involved in the question was, do you sign up for this?
I don't know.
I don't think I would.
This the kind of complexity that would go along with that.
I don't know.
All right.
Jay, what was someone else saying something there?
I think it was.
I think someone asked what I'd like to do with it.
I was like, oh, how it would go with it.
I was just saying that I I know I'd want mine to be that relatively soon.
But I think we I'd imagine it's like getting stuck as like, do I have to move out yet?
Now you're good.
Because like, obviously, when we're living together,
we're going to be spending a lot of money spending saving a lot of money on on all that.
Getting a lot of work done.
All that jazz.
Mm hmm.
It was another interesting one, but I don't know.
You know, we're going to run out of time soon.
But I was just thinking, like, I still like rags.
How would you be?
What would you be your your plan if you just went into a tank and the tank opens back up
and there's two of you and there's no way to prove.
The whole point is there's no way to prove which one of you is the original.
How would you deal with that?
How would you deal with that?
Um, I think I'd be fine with that.
I was going to say, I think that what you would do be like,
all right, co ownership, I guess.
Oh, wait, actually, would you?
Because that would work.
I mean, it would be hard to make it weird.
I mean, functionally the same.
You could my point.
The reason I asked this question is who then does rags family and friends
have as their rags, you know, or does rags share it?
I don't know.
I mean, would one of us, would one of us want to take off
and start something new and have one of us?
Well, yeah, that's the thing.
I think that's a reasonable thing to say.
But then who the fuck is going to be the one out of you two?
And you're the same person.
That would have to be something that I decide with myself.
If that if that's what I wanted to do.
I suppose you might actually the same decision.
No, that's the point, though.
You might actually both agree to leave it to a coin at that point,
because the only way to do it fail, right?
I don't know, because again, once you once you realize
there's another one of you and there's a second individual,
you'll start thinking and observing differently.
And at first, the changes will probably be really small.
But then as time goes on, oh, dude, how cool would it be?
Changed the split and then meet back up in 20 years.
Just to see what happened.
And these questions are far too interesting
for the amount of time we're not supposed to be spending
so that we can get through these questions about it.
I think I'd be like, I wouldn't kill my clone and we wouldn't try to hurt each other.
I think I would I think I'm an easy guy to get along with as it is.
And with myself, I feel like you'd be doubly so.
The interesting thing is you don't see Rick and Morty yet.
Hopefully one day you will.
He's there is an episode is something I'm going to keep this simple
because I don't keep spending longer on this.
I'm just interested in the topic.
So like he's everyone's getting turned into multiple dimensions.
It keeps getting split and split and split further.
And he's trying to connect them all back together like timelines out of sync.
I can't be asked to be more specific about this.
It's more to the point.
Rick, the main character is so in sync that he knows that all the other
Ricks aren't going to try and kill him because that wouldn't be like a smart thing to do
because they're just trying to resync everything.
And then when they realize the second he realizes there's a problem with resinking everything,
he immediately thinks to himself, I know that we could all fix this as Ricks,
but the easy way out would just to be to kill all the other Ricks.
And so I know that now the other Ricks are going to try and kill me,
but I'm going to kill them first.
Like that's this light of logic he has that takes him to immediately start trying to kill them
while they're all trying to kill him all at the same time because they think the others
are going to try and kill them first.
Basically in an attempt to outwit his assumption
that he will eventually decide it's worth killing himself to fix all of this,
he tries to kill himself.
And I just I wonder if that would eventually happen with you,
that you would be convinced that the other one will eventually try and kill you first
because that'll be the smart thing to do
and that you should try and kill him first as a result of that.
Oh, no, not me.
No, no, no.
Like I like one of the reasons I can't get into spoilers for prestige.
I can't come into mind as well.
I would really have absolutely.
No, I would like the idea of killing the clone would.
I just can't even imagine having that thought.
In fact, I think my clone would try to kill me.
Yeah, because I don't think I have I don't have the capacity for murder like that.
Sure.
But like surely as time goes on, the last you'll be able to be sure of it because you don't exactly
you're no longer inside their head.
You don't exactly know what's going on.
I actually think it'd be the other way.
If anything, it would have been easier for me to empathize with the other me.
Like for a while for me, I think like I would empathize
and I would like to get double the workload done and everything like that.
But then as time went on, this guy who gets to interact with all of the things that he earned
and all of his memories and all his family and all his friends and everything he'd built up over
several years gets to have all that.
But like clone me has to it's only secondary to all that would eventually get like resentful
and lonely and all that shit.
And then eventually I would I think my clone would eventually set up a plan to accidentally kill me.
So I can so I feel like you're dealing with the Rick situation where you'd be like,
I think he's going to kill me.
I got to kill him before he kills me.
Well, no, it's like my like my real self wouldn't want to kill my clone,
but my clone would want to kill me because I would become jealous
that I don't get to do all the shit that I have memories of that.
I clearly have memories building up, but I don't get that anymore
because all real me is over fucking there and he gets all that shit.
But no, I got to start over.
No, it's not fair.
And then eventually my clone would try to kill me.
I would never do that.
That isn't me at all.
Dude, it would be such a good movie to have like, like,
let's say three people with very different personalities or, you know.
Yeah, and especially if you had a wife or a girlfriend.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
Yeah, like I suppose.
OK, so another interesting scenario could have rags is that you do that whole clone thing.
He splits off from you.
Everything's great.
And then some weird law is passed or some genetic problem in.
Let's go with the fucking Batwoman thing that's happening.
Just pretend this is reality.
This is reality.
I can't be asked to explain how this could possibly make sense.
But you find out one of you has to die in order for either one of you to live.
And like, this is 20 years on and you meet up with the other again.
I wonder, like, what could happen then?
Like the conversations that you could have with each other or whatever.
And this isn't something like that's going to be sanctioned by the government
or sorted out privately in any way, shape or form.
It's just you know that about each other and nobody else is aware of this.
That's the scenario.
I know it's retarded, but just go with it.
I'm curious what would happen.
I just I think that my understand like that,
for me, at such a base level of how I would view a clone of another life and another body
and my views on these kind of existential issues,
I would be I would never, ever think about doing harm to my clone.
Like it, I would see him indistinguishable in a principled sense from just another person
because that's what he would be.
But what about the scenario I said, though, you have to do it in order for any one of you to live?
Like you like you just you discover between you,
you both can't coexist.
What if you have to die and you're as far as you're both aware, you're both the original.
I would be I then one of us would kill the other in that sense.
Maybe that would be the interesting movie to write about yourself.
Because that would be the one because I'm not so selfless that I would die for my clone.
And I feel like we would both do that.
So one of us would just like legit have to kill the other.
It's not something we take pleasure in.
Would you try and talk to him or would you be considered?
This is 20 years on, by the way.
Would you try and talk to him or would you be like, it's a bit risky that he could like to
ambush me like to convince him to kill himself?
No, just to talk about this situation.
Or would you be like, yeah, but I wouldn't I wouldn't expect him to
like offer to be the one who dies.
I guess what I'm wondering at that point is I wonder if you would think of yourself as the
kind of person at that point who would use that opportunity to ambush you and kill you
because of the fact that the conversation can only end in either one of you dying.
I I'm not exactly certain, but a lot of it would be based off of does my clone know what I know?
And but if I was sure that if you don't kill if I was certain,
and I believed fully that if I didn't kill my clone, I would die.
Then I don't I don't know if that's the case.
I don't know, because that's like would that.
I mean, I would ask the scenario of anybody.
This doesn't even have to be a clone scenario.
This. Oh, no, of course.
You knew that if you didn't kill this person, you would die.
Would you do it?
It's like, I don't know.
I don't just wipe through so many like screenplay ideas.
It's like, yeah, I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I don't think I would be able to force myself to do that.
I think that's what I would do with your story.
So we're not saying we need to find that one thing.
I probably just contrive a reason that one of you you can't coexist anymore.
And but but I don't think I don't think I could possibly kill myself, though.
How do you think that story would end with you both dying?
No, no, I wouldn't want that.
None of us.
I don't think either of us would want that.
Well, I guess that's the interesting part that what would happen.
One day we will find out.
And I think this would be a much bigger issue for some other people.
I think I'd.
Yeah, if I didn't be okay with it in the way that a lot of other people just wouldn't.
If my clone was gone for 20 years and then we both were told separately
that we have to kill the other to live, I'd be like, fuck.
Because I immediately cynically assumed that this other me is way more prepared to kill
me than I am to kill them.
Just because of the fact that I haven't been ready when you don't know anything
about them for the last 20 years.
I'd be like, who knows where he's at right now, what he's doing.
Especially if I kept the odd light for so that he probably find a much easier job of
finding me because he would just go straight to family members.
And he could fake my voice on a phone.
Well, so this is the thing.
And I assume all the ways he could do it to me.
And then I wonder if he's having that same thought at the same time.
But he's like, I wonder if he could use blah blah blah to do blah blah.
And the only problem is like you try to talk to each other is fucking worthless
because you could already conclude that whatever still has to die.
And so how do you maybe one of them has cancer, you know, and then the choice is less painful.
Like that's going to be unlikely.
Yeah, pragmatic assessments like that would make it a lot easier for me to
to decide those things would factor in pretty heavily.
I feel like he was in a movie.
You have so many twists.
What if you found out you have no choice but to do the opposite of cloning yourself?
You had to you don't get me saying this.
Someone else's consciousness and yours are going to be split between the same body
as in like you become one consciousness.
Both have two sets of memories.
And it's moving.
No, I wouldn't.
I wouldn't want that.
That sounds horrifying.
I'm not sure how that works.
That's like, I want to see that movie as well.
Well, isn't I'm thinking of it like, okay, let's say there's only room for one person
after 20 years, and they recombine into like the into one with both their experiences
involving like who they become.
So anyway, yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't do that.
Even if it was to save their life, I wouldn't do that.
It'd be cool to write a story like this, though.
It all starts out.
I would probably do that.
I think I'd favor that solution of what either of us dying.
Wait, what's like favor the solution of you both occupying the same body?
Not like sharing not sharing it, but like morphing into one person, essentially.
I know that would kill me.
I was about to say the only reason why I'd be so against us is like,
what does it mean entirely?
Like, I don't know.
It's lots of things that happen there, especially if it's 20 years apart.
How do you combine two people who would have diverged to that degree?
Is it everything that you have both their memories?
Surely that would be fucked as hell to try and keep track.
Like everything in your head is going to be all jumbled.
The memories is not the most important.
I don't think that would be the hard part is having double memories.
It's just that you would like you would a sense of self is the problem.
Which one am I?
Especially because a lot of things are mutually exclusive to one another,
like even things as simple as favorite color, political preferences, stuff like that.
At what point are you like?
What am I?
What am I really?
Because you would lose a lot of that.
Also, that would be the top.
Not having two sets of memories.
If this thing is actually viable and actually doable,
what a way to prove which of two lives you have a preference for as a combination of both.
As in like you have, let's just say you're married to it.
No, because there could be obvious indicators of that as well.
I don't know.
There's just lots of things this is interesting about.
But I also just don't know what it would mean exactly to have two personalities combined into one.
And say, for example, one of them loved hot dogs.
One of them hated them.
Would you now find them okay?
Is that how that would work?
Yeah, stuff like that.
There would be two mutually contradictory.
I assume it would have to be the reasons that you actually feel that way would have to clash in
your head because like people have contradictory, you know, like you may hate one thing about hot
dogs and love another thing about them.
Like you might think the taste is nice and hate the texture.
Like I assume the reasons would have to clash.
If I what foods do you love the texture of but hate the taste of that you eat?
Very few.
Wait, do you say love the taste don't like the texture?
No, love the texture, hate the taste.
Okay, I actually I had an example of the other one, but love texture and hate taste.
I don't know that there's not any food I can put in my mouth if I hate the taste of it.
Doesn't matter the textures at that point.
But it doesn't matter.
Like, it's not like if the taste would be okay for you, but if the texture would be okay for you,
but you just can't get around the taste is what I mean.
Like, you don't have it doesn't have to be a food you regularly eat for that.
You have to use to hold that perspective on it.
Sorry about my coronavirus.
Coronavirus.
In fact, all of us with it.
Jay, what the fuck?
What a crazy adventure this has been.
We talked more about this than rip the guy who makes the time stamps.
You're an unsung hero, by the way.
Yes, I really appreciate that.
By the way, it's just like not viable for me to be able to do that.
So yeah, I guess that wraps up that that super chat.
I bet they didn't expect that.
We were on that for an hour or so.
Okay.
I have a terrible condition comes in the form of being unable to send super chats.
What's this?
I'm cured.
Hi.
Oh, my goodness.
You did it.
Hi, Rags.
Good dog.
Hello.
Rags, do you have any monitor recommendations building my new PC and interested in getting
a new monitor that's relatively cheap, but works well?
Let's see.
The one that I'm using now is I've had really good luck with aces monitors.
Let me in fact, let me Google the one that I have right now.
So you can write it down.
I got to go to Amazon orders because they don't they have like the weird names and stuff.
Was it you can do the timestamps yourself?
You bastard.
It's like I am aware of this.
Anyone could do the timestamps, but it's very difficult for me to the one that I'm using now
is all of the topic timestamps to seven.
You know, PG to seven.
VQ twenty seven inch.
Fourteen forty P.
It's the one sixty five hertz one.
That doesn't sound cheap.
Definitely.
Is it cheap?
No, it's like his requirement.
Yeah, he was asking about cheap.
Maybe I love it.
It's great, but it ain't cheap.
You can get a much cheaper than that, but that's the one that I've got.
That's the thing that he asked cheap, but works well.
Oh, let me actually check some of the old ones that I have.
See if their price has gone down.
I guess it depends on your definition.
I mean, I haven't had a monitor break on me and I've had one from
aces asa Samsung and something else ages ago.
The one of my I think the first one I got back in twenty fourteen.
It is a.
And aces VG two four eight QE.
That's a twenty four inch nineteen twenty by ten eighty monitor, but one forty four hertz.
I don't think it's G sync.
However, what I would highly, highly, highly recommend is to save up money to get a G sync
monitor.
It is definitely better to wait and get a G sync monitor.
It is.
They are incredible.
And yeah, the the thing because like theoretically I could create timestamps
as we create the stream, but I don't think I'm able to do that with everything else.
That I'm sort of trying to keep track of as well as being in conversation.
And I won't be able to rewatch the Efap to get the timestamps in place between all the
other things I'm doing.
So that's why I just I appreciate the fact that he's he's been doing him slash she.
I don't know.
He's very good at him.
You keep that shit up.
Griff said so much for Efap taxes.
We did all the taxes.
This was the taxes one.
And what it meant was that it was mainly like browser based text based things, even though
we did some videos too.
I can't believe we actually managed to pull it off.
It was fantastic.
Utterly, utterly fantastic.
Speaking of which, happy early birthday rags.
Oh, thanks.
Is a tad early, right?
It's late February, I believe.
No, February 12.
Oh, we're gonna wait.
Oh, that's a day after we do Efap.
Damn.
Oh, maybe.
Well, I was gonna say, I don't even know if you're free.
Did you?
I don't mind.
That's all good.
I don't you don't need to make a big deal of it.
We should do something.
You should stream on your channel or something.
Do something fucking.
I don't know.
We could do something.
Maybe play some games.
I mean, invite all of the disgusting creatures we hang out with.
Have some drinks.
We should play GTFO.
I might end up having family stuff that day, actually.
They like to, I got one of those families.
They like to make an event out of everything and go out and do stuff.
And I don't mind it.
So, I'll probably be spending a lot of time out with them or whatnot.
Well, if you decide to do anything internet-wise, let me know.
I shall blindfold your damples with you if you want.
You know, I just might.
Or we could just go big into Efap and.
Big fat.
Big fat.
Big fat.
We'll have a big fat together.
Big birthday fat.
I'm okay with this.
Sorry, Jay.
Constructive criticism requires something to construct with.
No points of any worth were made in this video in my subjective objective viewpoint.
Well, it's okay.
He deletes comments anyway.
Oh, he got wrecked by his comment section.
What's up with my Ewoks?
I don't think this video is very good.
You don't know that he deleted that.
What if something tismy happened in life?
I'll have a look.
That's what you call a well-adjusted individual.
Yes.
The most recent comment on there is when will these senseless hate crimes against strawmen stop?
Oh my goodness.
I like the idea that it's like a help and aid group for strawmen being murdered.
Like innocent straw people who are being killed.
Cut down in the fields.
Burned alive.
My comment is gone and it didn't have anything.
It didn't have anything that YouTube likes to delete.
So like I assume that he deleted it.
Literally you said, man, I don't think this video is very good.
Well, that's not very constructive, is it?
So YouTube deletes comments.
Or if it has a no-no word in it, which mine didn't.
And if it gets flagged by a lot of people,
and I really doubt that this video would, you know,
it's more than a month old video with 16,000 views is getting enough
traffic that my comment got mass flagged within seven hours.
So I assume he deleted it, although it is possible YouTube did a YouTube.
Yeah.
Because a lot of people would make claims about me deleting comments and I'm like,
I haven't visited my comment section in so long that I find that claim ridiculous.
And like, so why is my comment gone?
Like, I don't actually know.
Like, I don't know if YouTube's fucking comment.
Yeah, you liar.
Oh, you lie.
I check comments on my new releases and stuff.
Just see what see what's the, the happy haps.
But yeah, I guess someone's like usually in my comment on fucking doc.
Souls pop three.
I didn't mean to make sure to double check it and incognito
and make see if other people can do it.
Because a lot of the times it'll still show up for you.
Even then though, like you can't always know.
Yeah.
Also, I like the idea of a straw man going into like a little help center.
He's all he's limping in, right?
With straw behind him.
And then they're like, hello, sir.
How can I help you?
He's like, well, apparently I hate women.
They're like, oh, have a sit down.
There's like loads of hate women.
They have to be like re-strawed and removed to become clean.
They just get picked up randomly and give it an argument to destroy.
That's the life of a straw man.
It's horrifying.
What's up all my Ewoks.
Quick question.
Have any of you ever played the darkness one and two?
I've played them.
I'm not.
That's the one where you have like creepy tentacles that can kill people, right?
This person.
Yeah.
We're going back to the that Xbox 360 golden age stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah, I liked what I played.
I can play it for long though.
Um, also, hi Rags.
Hi.
Hello, long man.
Hello.
And kick J.
No, I thought that's so fucking rude.
Is it though?
Is it really?
Is it?
Um, Rags, is it canon that Max Mofo is your owner?
Max Mofo?
Mm hmm.
I bet my I bet my owner does feel like a Max Mofo.
Yeah.
In a sultry voice.
Oh my god.
Wait, do they want me or Rags to say I guess we should both do it.
I never know with these ones.
They never direct it, but it feels more like a Rags thing to say.
I posted it.
You wanted to.
You know, that's probably right.
Uh, go ahead.
I'm after you.
Oh, you want me to go first?
Yeah.
Baby girl needs a spanking.
They said sultry.
Sounded like the gedel man.
Randomly, baby girl needs a spanking.
You know, what is the secret to Mario's jump?
Does that get you horny?
If I was going to say, if I was going to say something like that,
then it would be more like almost like a very under.
I wouldn't say it unironically.
I would do it in like, like a kidding playful way.
Um, probably say something along the lines of, um,
um, baby girl needs a spanking.
Look at the fucking, they don't know what to do with what just happened.
Baby girl needs a spanking.
I think that'll work.
Baby girl needs a spanking.
This is the next one.
Okay.
I'm just, I'm going to read it.
This is the next one.
My Willy smells funny.
It's like a guaranteed J thing to make him laugh.
I was like, I was like, how did you like manage to smell it?
What do you mean you get a tube?
Human ingenuity has no limits.
Uh, what am I getting my fact value?
Just distinction discussion.
Um,
if that's referring to like objective, subjective as in to value something personally versus factual.
Sort of, uh, categorization of whether or not a thing is more of a thing than another thing is a thing.
Like we go over a lot.
I think we've covered that a few times actually.
Probably wouldn't wouldn't surprise me at all.
So, uh, rags has art of himself on rule 34 dot xxx question mark.
I'm sure I do.
I don't doubt that for one second.
Yeah.
I, uh, I totally believe that I do.
I'd be surprised if I didn't.
I don't use that site though.
I use e621.
Hey, this is a game of thrones reference.
Start the fucking I ate everything discussion before I piss myself.
Good shit.
Oh my goodness.
Continuing with bad syllogism, the major premise and the minor shall be related.
And the third and third, sorry.
The conclusion cannot speak of issues that do not exist in the premises.
Poor Dios.
Poor Dios.
A poor Dios.
Oh, I got another.
I can see that super shall just came in more.
Good del voice piss and things.
Plans to cover Patrick Willem soon.
I miss him.
He's not got anything worth covering yet.
We're waiting.
I do watch his videos and it's funny with Patrick.
Sometimes he says a thing where I'm like, hmm, interesting.
And then other times I'll be like, what do you know?
So we need a video full of what do you know?
Like I need that reaction, but the entire thing.
And then then we can cover him.
Make a compilation of him.
Tonal's back.
Yes.
Oh yeah.
Rags apparently his monthly thrust has been delivered.
You know about this?
Oh, I had no idea.
I didn't get an email for it.
That's what I was told.
It could be a lie.
They might have been referring to his video.
I don't know.
I hope you go.
Oh, well, listen, if someone was going to.
Yeah, I imagine that I would know otherwise,
but I do check my emails for Patreon and stuff and it hadn't popped up.
So maybe I need to check again and see if it's around.
A little little.
It was probably the art I sent him that did the trick.
Yesterday, February 7th was my birthday.
I consider this my birthday.
Efap.
Hello, Wags.
Hello.
Hello, Moopa.
Hello.
Jay the Unkicked.
I'm getting my concealed carry soon.
Yeah, he's cool.
The profile is Centrist Glass Cannon.
Centrist Glass Cannon.
Don't get a glass gun though.
They're shit.
They fire once and then they get all fucky.
So three print guns, basically.
Hi, Rags.
Hi.
Hope you have a great birthday.
You massive.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you.
I hate everything.
Everyone made a TLJ video.
I wanted to be different.
Also, I hate everything.
I hadn't anyone break down the plot, okay?
Like he said, he was pissed off about all the things that had happened.
And so he sort of just blocked out of his head.
Forgot it existed that the whole thing happened.
I don't know.
It was kind of strange.
Can you guys do the movie?
Wait.
Can you guys do the movie JXE or JXE for Efap movies?
What?
JXE.
Is there a movie called JXE?
If there is, we can take a look man.
Oh my God, JXE 2019.
Oh my God.
Phil has a major dependency issue.
He's addicted to his cell phone.
He has no friends and his love life is non-existent.
Forced to upgrade to a new phone,
Phil soon learns that the latest model comes with a JXE.
An artificial intelligence life coach.
Oh my gosh.
That doesn't seem terrible.
We will look into that.
What's his rating?
6.1 out of 10.
That's a lot higher than I was expecting.
11% Rotten Tomatoes.
Oh.
Rose Byrne is in it.
41% though.
I find that-
Michael Pena is in it.
Well, Rotten Tomatoes scores don't mean anything anyway.
But the ones that mean the least are when the critic score is low
and the audience score is high.
Could be fucking any level.
Like that's Venom and Joker.
I mean, I usually just check IMDB.
IMDB is much more reliable.
Rotten Tomatoes is retarded.
I'm sorry.
It's like a poor man's copy of hair.
I believe it's an accurate telling of Jay's life.
Oh yeah, I mean.
Well, now we have to see it.
Uh, should Jay get demoted from manager to co-host?
Uh, we'll think about it.
I mean, his managerial skills have been terrible.
Jay, what have you managed recently?
What are we paying you for?
Look how fucking Wellyfap's doing.
That was all me.
Was that all him?
You guys are the pretty faces and the brains behind the operation.
Then how do you explain all the other people?
When does that leave?
What do you mean, what does that leave?
I mean, what else is there?
I said, you guys are the pretty faces.
I'm the brains.
Oh, you said you're the brain.
I thought you said, I thought you said and the brains.
And I accepted that without question.
It's true.
That's Jay's argument.
Well, you guys are the pretty faces of the brains.
They just stopped.
We're like, wait.
We're watching an hour long video and this is shaping up to be the shortest
if happened a while.
What is our universe?
Did we cross into?
I ragger Thoth.
Hello.
Hour long video.
Yeah, technically we did watch an hour long video.
Oh, yeah, I guess so.
But what does it look like an hour?
That one seems almost like pre fat.
Yeah, it was it was a bit of sort of getting a set up.
Dude, that was like 10 hours ago.
That was a that was like 10 10 podcasts ago.
Yeah.
Okay, doo doo doo.
This stream is objectively good in a subjectively objective manner
of objective subjectivity activity.
That's the one.
Oh, well.
Wow.
Yeah, it makes sense.
There were a lot of words there.
Even on first viewing of TFA, I just liked the nostalgia.
But the film did fool me into thinking better films were coming.
Mm hmm.
Mm hmm.
Mm hmm.
It did.
It did for most.
What are people liking it?
Hating it, sorry, thought that there was hope.
Like the sequel of it.
Like they were like, well, at least it gives room for things to happen.
Like, even if they hate it.
Wonder if that's Jeff, I believe he didn't like the problem with I hate everything's
initial video was that he dismissed any criticism of TLJ as irrelevant and coming
from a nefarious place.
He's being disingenuous about the blowback you got from people, including rags.
So this is the thing.
If we wanted to be definitive about all that, I would actually have to go back,
watch his original video, then watch rags video, preferably with him and then
actually have him be clear about what the problem is and then go over it.
But that's not going to happen.
I think we even made a joke about that in the videos.
Like, that's probably not going to happen.
He was like, no, I was not going to.
Fun fact, Joker are rated has a better box office than TROS family friendly Star
Wars movie.
Is that true?
I thought I thought Star Wars now had grossed more than like it is.
It's got like one point.
I want to say one point six billion or something.
Isn't it up there?
Or am I crazy?
Oh, boy.
Let me check the number.
Let me check them both here.
The rice of Skywalker.
I'm pretty sure Joker got one point one billion.
Movies made.
Oh, maybe not.
Maybe box office.
One point one billion for a Joker.
And the rise of.
Rise of Skywalker got almost the same.
They're actually Joker slightly higher by about 500 million or so.
I had no idea.
That's pretty awesome.
If that's true.
Yeah, it's pretty.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Crazy.
We're in a world where 500 million is slightly higher.
Also, what is your pick for underrated OST?
Mine is Transformers.
OST probably.
Probably it follows.
I love the soundtrack in that movie.
And barely anyone cares about it follows.
Does it have to be a movie?
Probably not.
Because there's OK, so there's this game.
That I never played and that no one has played called There Came an Echo.
It was a game about you're basically talking to your characters to get them to strategically go
to room to room and shoot people.
So the gimmick was voice communication with your AI characters.
Didn't do too great, but the soundtrack for the game is like extremely good.
So it was a shame that that the game had to go the way it did.
It's like a soundtrack would have been really appreciated by a lot of people.
Let me see what comes to mind.
I'd say Echo has a pretty good soundtrack.
At least simple, though.
Really atmospheric.
Appropriate.
Do you say it's underrated?
In the sense that a lot of people probably wouldn't think about it.
They're not enough people have played that game.
Probably.
That one where you're going around trying to fight an AI that's learning from you, right?
Yeah.
I've heard of that.
It's an interesting premise.
Yeah, it's really good.
Let's see.
I don't know what else comes to mind for underrated or underappreciated.
OSTs.
A lot of the ones that I would suggest are probably ones people would say, yeah, are really good.
What the fuck was that noise?
It's his thinking mouth squelch noise.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I think Stellaris has a really good soundtrack.
I don't know if it's underrated.
I don't know how anyone talked about it.
I was thinking, I don't hear people talk about soundtracks set up in any way,
so I don't really know which ones are going to be underrated.
You know, a fun fact about that, there came an echo soundtrack,
is one of the tracks was repurposed for Stranger Things season two.
Just neat.
Did it tell you how to feel?
Uh, yeah, yeah, it did.
It explicitly told me with text and voice and everything how to feel.
And I felt it.
I felt it, man.
I think Stellaris' soundtrack is pretty underrated.
I don't think I've ever had anyone talk about it.
Star what, sorry?
Hors.
Oh, yeah, like pornos and stuff.
Maybe they have really great soundtracks and people just get too busy.
Dude, that'd be so awesome.
Fucking they don't even think of it like on Zimmer, for example, like that kind of prestige
was like, you know, fuck this.
I've got enough money.
I'm just going to start making incredible music for porn.
Then I should have done the Captain Marvel.
I want a point when it's like an incredible soundtrack.
I need to see that happen now.
Like not something ill suited and rattly thrown together,
like an actual like Hans Zimmer worked on the entire project sort of thing.
Yeah.
It's like, what are you listening to?
I'm going to set a scum shot to Afterglow every bit of that.
He worked very closely like on set.
Like, you know, they say that the best scores are done when the
composer is on set for the production.
And they're working with like the rest of the crew.
He has to do that.
He's like thrusts slower or fit the beat better.
Uh huh.
Like he has to they do the porno while he's there watching.
And then he comes back and he like the thrust.
He makes the beats in sync with the thrusts and stuff.
And the music slowly gets faster.
And I let go.
I let grow the crescendo crescendo.
And then we have the big finale.
I like how we just went through all of that.
You see Shadowverse.
He's like Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves has best soundtrack and it's very nice.
We're talking about porn now.
I haven't seen that movie in ages.
One with the Alec Rickman, right?
Yeah.
He played the sheriff of Nottingham.
Yeah.
Nottingham.
Nottingham.
Nottingham.
Nottingham.
It's one of my favorite past.
Fuck no one in Ham.
Yeah.
No one likes Nottingham.
It's almost as bad as that place.
Burning Ham.
I hate.
She is wavering between admitting he was wrong and not being able to man up.
He's a bit, um, this is the thing.
Like I didn't want to push.
I hate everything at all because he's very, uh, I'm trying to think of the right word.
He's like, I don't think he likes confrontation at all.
Um, and this is the thing.
Like if Rags and I were in a disagreement, we can be extremely assertive back and forth,
back and forth, back and forth.
But when you have someone who's very much not assertive,
what is the opposite word of assertive?
The antonym.
A passive?
Submissive.
Submissive maybe?
I don't know.
I don't think it's submissive because you don't have to submit to not be assertive.
Yeah, I think passives get better.
Isn't it passive, active, assertive, submissive?
That's probably what it is, right?
Aggressive, passive, assertive.
Okay.
Anyway, say, for example, he comes with like a relative explanation.
You hammer back a point straight away.
And he's like, ah, and you're trying to struggle to get another one out,
hammer back immediately again.
And it's just like, oh, can't do this anymore.
It's too, too broad, too.
And it does it like two, two people who are like,
looking for capital conversations.
This is why you're being so rough.
That, again, is all about dem communications, yo.
It's different to everybody.
How it's viewed by the audience, the people involved,
and the people who are doing the thing.
I meant to say people who are listening and the people who are saying,
you know, you know what I mean.
The whole interesting thing.
And in the end, at least I actually did talk.
And he gave me the apology.
I was really happy with that.
I was like, that's very good of you.
And I give you a big thank.
You know, you didn't have to.
He could have just not done that.
I'm trying to think of like example.
You could just be the person who's like, no, no, no.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
You felt that way.
Yeah.
He could have gone the direction of with the information I had at the time.
I felt that was a reasonable thing to say.
I may have been misinformed, but I didn't make any mistakes.
Like he could put it that way.
Yeah.
And at that point, I'd be like, so do you fucking hate the people who lied to you that.
Do you guys remember Mr.
Caption?
No, Mr.
Caption.
I know that name.
I can't remember what that refers to.
No, I don't know.
Finally, my first live Efap.
It took me three months to catch up from the beginning.
This is a great reward for getting pepper sprayed for work.
Pepper sprayed for work.
Oh, wait, wait, wait.
Does he work for the police or something?
Because don't you have to normally be pepper sprayed for training?
It could work for the pepper spray factory.
Maybe they were testing out.
Pepper spray, pepper spray effective.
He's a tester for someone's job, right?
How do they know it's a good batch?
Jay, do you know that one was defeated by pepper spray of the newest episode?
Am I wrong?
Oh, that's perfect.
You remember that like it was yesterday.
I'm so ready for the next episode about women.
It's such a great show.
It is so fucking good.
I miss having a Tuesday arrive and not having a bat woman.
Yeah, I was going to say next one is going to still still just over a week from now.
We've got to wait before the next new one.
Oh, these are pumping these out so fast, though.
Damn, like you mean we just had a three week break.
Even to that level of shit, I would expect to say that longer to me.
Wait, what do you mean?
Surely that makes sense.
Like that bad getting pumped out that fast.
Surely that lines up.
Nah.
Oh, yeah, there's this.
I should be spoiling this.
She has an EMP device.
The reason she needs it is because the person she's chasing is controlling
all of these things from her iPad and she needs to EMP everything in the area
so that she can spot that person's electronic device out of a crowd.
But wouldn't that impede the device you're trying to spot?
No, because obviously she has a firewall.
A firewall to stop an EMP.
Yes.
Yep.
Oh, the show is so fucking good, man.
Sure, why not?
No one else has firewalls.
Jeez, that's how firewalls work.
That's how firewalls work.
Don't you know that's how firewalls work?
Oh, yeah, so this is a great reward after getting pepper sprayed for work.
Thanks for all the hours of entertainment, my Ewoks.
Sorry about the pepper spray.
And I'm glad you're enjoying and you caught up.
Three months it took him.
Good stuff.
I love showing up to a stream and three out of the five people are muted slash s.
But we had an additional two people in the recording.
So that balances out almost.
It's fine.
No, no, but one of them was you.
So an additional one.
We just had a lot of discussion about clones.
We would count as an extra voice as it was Christmas molar as well.
He's a totally different dude.
Would you fuck Yoda if doing so gave you force abilities?
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
Imagine it was like for every time you do you get an additional one.
So you keep coming back and he's like, I want force choke, baby.
More force.
I just, I just like the idea you walk into his house.
It's easy just because
I started watching in the middle of your conversation with IH.
I hate everything.
I was surprised when the conversation ended and I realized that you'd reached
if a perception.
Oh yeah.
So some people may have joined that and been under the impression that it was
just me and him in this podcast or something.
Most people are fucking dumb.
Idiots.
Mola, have you seen hello future me's recent Cora video?
He snipes at you throughout it.
Also.
Hi regs.
Hi.
Who's that?
Who?
Wait, who's that?
Who?
Hello future me apparently sniping at me in his Cora video.
Okay.
Do I know this person?
Wait, you know, have you never heard of hello future me?
I might have.
I just don't.
I'm looking now.
What do they do?
He's collaborated with someone that I enjoy.
So.
Oh, you're not allowed to say anything bad about him.
Is that what you're saying?
No, no, I don't know anything about him.
Is what I'm saying.
Oh, like works with good people.
That's all I know.
I'm going to guess this.
This the jobs to do with objectivity.
That's the easy go to.
All right.
It could be to do with long.
Could be.
One of the top Cohen says hello future me.
How do people like go on three hour long rants fueled by only a sweaty
Mountain Dew induced rage?
I'm like an hour into this.
I'm already exhausted.
And then they've got more.
Hello there.
Ladies and gentlemen.
I don't drink Mountain Dew.
Do you eat Doritos?
Oh, you know, it's funny though.
Either of those is the someone said, oh, another fan of more.
Always good to see a fan of the legendary log by himself.
And that may the dog bless you both.
I'm just like, yes.
Yes.
As the spiders for.
Told.
Was it a shot or was it like them praising you?
It's the same.
Oh, these these will seem.
I can't honestly tell if the first one is like pro me or anti me.
It's too hard to know at these points.
Yeah, I don't know.
Fair enough.
Here, I'm going to show you these.
Pikachu just.
Oh, my goodness.
Call the ambulance, but not for me.
Oh, look.
It's getting out of hand.
No, there are two of them.
I know.
It's Rex.
I like I'm sweating.
I like my face.
Oh, my goodness.
The turnaround on that was fast.
Yeah, I like that he was already drawing this.
It's almost an animation in terms of just this is a story of these two frames.
Oh, I love how derpy they look in the first one.
And this spam account still keep popping up.
Yeah, I was talking about porno.
We kind of must have summoned them.
Also, that ended in also high ranks.
Hey, high ranks.
Hey, my birthday is Valentine's Day, but I have no Valentine this year.
Will you be my Valentine Rags?
Oh, that sounds really nice.
Having your birthday be Valentine's Day.
All the solution and avoiding the question.
Hmm.
Oh, yes or no?
Huh?
I could ask the question again if you'd like me to.
No, no, sounds nice.
So yes.
Sounds sounds nice.
Wouldn't that be something?
All right.
Gotta buy him a really nice dinner.
Yeah, boy.
Hey, fucking take me out to dinner on Valentine's Day.
Chat just said, just took my next dose of drugs.
Time to get dizzy.
Well, enjoy listening to us rabble for still another hour and five minutes is all we got left.
And we're still not through this super chats.
Hopefully we can just get that done.
And if we don't get into any overflow, I'm still okay with it.
Also, they're medicated drugs.
That's what people think.
He's using weed or something.
Chats over here getting blasted and nobody knew.
Also, Mola, when you have some time in 2089, can you and Fringey collab to make an unbridled praise
of Bojack Horseman?
Fringey and Jay, they should do that.
They both watch it.
I haven't seen it.
Sorry.
And Jay didn't decline that office.
So apparently that's on.
So I would I'd be totally up for that.
We've all got to work together to get Fringey making stuff.
YouTube video wise again, we'll get there.
Keep pushing him, nudging him, poking him.
The super chat button disappears when you use pop out chat.
Please order Susan to fix this.
Thank you.
Yeah, that is some kind of inconvenient for the way people use this.
Susan's managing.
I will see to this.
Hello future me reference more in his recent core video.
I don't know how people make three hour takedowns of Star Wars on this site.
He means well.
I mean, if someone can make a one hour, then surely they could see how you can eventually
end up with a three.
I don't know if that's is that do you think that's reasonable or am I crazy like is in
the logic of it?
It's it's reasonable.
I mean, I guess it depends on the scale.
I mean, going from one hour to three hours is an unreasonable to me.
I guess I'm trying to have a lot of material to talk about and you're assessing it very
in depth.
I mean, he believed that there is such a thing as too long.
There's the cut off has got to exist at a point.
It can't just, you know, I mean, logic, not the.
Yes.
What I'm trying to say is like, if you have, let's say an episode of Simpsons and guy
a reviews in five minutes, guy B says reviews in 10 and he's like, no guy a reason five.
And he's like, I don't fucking know how people can do this for 10 minutes.
And then guy B is like, does it in 10?
He's like, I don't feel just 20 minutes.
You just keep going.
Where exactly is the fucking like, how do you determine where the crazy person is?
You know what I mean?
Like, where's the light of the car?
He's like, oh, you you did fucking 117,000 hours on this.
That's you're the crazy one.
Okay.
Everyone before you is okay.
That would be crazy.
Yeah.
No.
Well, of course, that was the whole reason I said it was to create one that is crazy.
But how do you where's the line?
Hello.
It's exactly 17 times like maybe at the point it becomes unhealthy and self destructive.
The point where becomes dare I say an obsession.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
Because I was about to say like imagine a thousand hour Simpson critique is on YouTube
split into 10 hour pieces or something.
Like that is insane to me.
But what if it was like the highest quality shit ever and it went in depth into every creator,
the origin and behind the scenes of all of how it was constructed and why and all the history
of the shows that influenced it interviews all over the place and then like all kinds of analysis
on all of the characters, significant arcs and how everything like maybe reached a downfall
across every single episode that's that's come out.
Like what if it was actually amazingly good?
Would you at that point just be like, wow.
And there was there was a guy's life's work, let's say.
What's the conclusion then?
Is he obsessed still?
Or do you say like, well, that was I mean, I don't think so.
I mean, I think putting it a thousand hours into something as a life's work is an unreasonable.
Well, not necessarily putting it in.
That's the output.
It's an a thousand hour documentary.
Call it, I guess.
I don't know.
I guess it's like if his wife left him and the kids hated him and he destroyed a social life
for it, I'd say, yeah, that's bad.
Like if he did it, I think it's health and wellness.
Then sure, but if it was a project that he was reasonable with,
you know, then I'd say, yeah, I don't think I'd have a problem with that.
Really.
Yeah, I agree.
I think that's a good way to sort of raise it.
It's like as long as it doesn't want to do it.
It's not.
Yeah.
I guess as long as it's not causing tangible damage to your own life, would that be kind of.
Yeah.
If you don't victimize anybody, including yourself and sure, I suppose that'd be fine.
And then there's just some when I say like a hundred billion thousand hours, you can't act
like if someone said, I did that without ruining anything.
You'd be like, I don't think that's possible because you would have to be uploading and
recording constantly.
I'm sure you could be alive long enough to have done it.
But yeah, but, you know, let's scale it all back down to Reasonland.
We're talking about a guy who's like, I make it a 40 plus minute video and this guy makes
a three hour one.
He must be nuts.
It's like just fucking four of your videos.
It's all that is.
It's split into parts.
I bought suddenly not be crazy.
I don't know.
It doesn't make sense to me at the point.
It's like, I feel like the most practical way to make a ridiculously long one like that
would be with an AI.
Just program an AI with your standards and get it to review the whole thing.
I think and I think creating the AI that could do that would be the life's word.
I was about to say that would be the incredible fucking achievement.
Whoa.
It's like, yeah, that would be crazy.
The longest technology.
I feel like it's more practical to work towards doing that than it is to make like, you know,
let's say a 10,000 hour review.
The longest piece of human literature is Super Smash Brothers fan fiction.
That's 3.5 million words long and still going.
What?
Well, wow.
Wait, work of fiction.
Well, it's the longest work of fiction.
Isn't it the Bible?
Oh, that's not even meant to be edgy.
Well, no, but that's not even that long compared to something that's 3.5 million words long.
I think the largest example of fossilized human poop ever found.
No, wait, hang on.
Wait, what do we what do we think we're talking about right now?
I'm pretty sure they're saying not 3.5 million years old or anything.
Wait, that wouldn't even okay.
Well, I'm confused.
I'm just gonna keep going now.
It's long.
This fan fiction has more than 4,100,000 words with more with more than 220 chapters.
Exclamation point.
That's that's not the impressive part of that.
Yeah, it is.
I have so few chapters.
That's like a very modest amount of chapters considering the number of
yeah, like each check.
Maybe that's why they're explaining it.
They're like, dude, it's so few chapters.
This is great.
But the phrasing is with more than 220 chapters.
Like, it should say with only if that's the if that's the
you judging their writing quality.
Yes.
That's explicitly what I'm doing.
Uh, Reddit is populated by low intelligence virtue signaling bandwagoning soy kex.
You should consider it a badge of honor that they dislike you.
I mean, I use Reddit.
I think I think I don't like browse it every once in a while.
Kind of like how I browse Twitter every once in a while.
So it's not really I kind of hate Twitter as well.
So yeah, same.
Uh, Mola, repeat after me.
Reddit is cancer.
Reddit is cancer.
Yeah, no, I agree.
Reddit is cancer.
Twitter is super cancer.
Hello, Mola.
I just recently watched the movie seven.
I was wondering what are your thoughts on it?
I personally loved it.
I think it's great.
But I haven't seen it in many a year now.
So I would need a refresh before I could cite all the things I loved about it.
But I remember loving it.
And if I think they had a I think the one that movie came out,
there was a typo in Scandinavia.
And they found it was a biography.
There was enough silence that maybe that made me think like,
oh, there's something wrong with the connection.
No, no, I was stupid.
That's what we found.
Wait, what?
Oh, nothing.
My stupid joke.
It's so stupid.
Hi, Ragg.
Oh, share with the class.
Because because it because they misspelled it and it just said Sven.
That's stupid.
I got him.
I didn't want to laugh because I just didn't think it.
Just carry on.
Just carry on.
Just go.
Just keep talking.
Hi, Ragg.
Hi.
Hi, Rags.
Oh, hi.
Rags.
Three beers gets you drunk.
Did you drink your alcohol through your no-no hole?
I would still need clarification of what hole that was.
But no, I.
Doesn't sometimes I'm just, man, I'm primed for it.
You know, I'm just fucking ready.
Also, hi, Rags.
Oh, hi there.
Also, I don't judge.
Achilles in the Trojan War.
Why would there be a scenario in a battle where I'd need to protect my heel?
I don't know what that would be relevant to in terms of discussion.
That would be relevant to the Sontarans.
That fucking no.
Kill them.
It stuns them.
So that they can be killed.
It's literally like being kicked in the balls, like.
You don't think the enemy would.
It's a fucking weak spot on the back of their head.
Yeah, like that's not the same.
Karate chop unit.
Go get them.
You're already destroyed on the subject.
It's like.
Ah, fuck it.
Okay.
I plan to.
Like, look at this shit.
I got to show Rags now.
Enough is enough.
It's called a probic vent.
See that?
See that, Rags?
See that shit?
Yeah.
That's the knockout spot.
What?
On the back of their armor.
So, fuck it.
It's like they're a Buzz Lightyear toy.
Tear the ball.
Okay, now I'm looking at it.
It's a please hit me.
It's a please hit me button.
That is insanely stupid.
Oh yeah, that shit.
People are gonna be bad at me.
I'm putting it on screen.
Jay, how do you defend this?
Here it is.
Um, I, I, I changed my mind.
I wasn't looking at it when I was trying to get in contact.
I remember the thing like this tiny little hole.
Oh, I want to compare.
Somebody compared this to a human getting shot
in the, in the, the heel with an arrow.
Like how the fuck is that the same?
Why they always face their enemies?
I think it's specifically Achilles, I suppose.
It is.
It's why they always face their enemies.
Uh-huh.
So what are they gonna do when they're not facing their enemies?
I hope they don't throw a tennis ball behind them.
It's that simple.
Just always face the enemy.
Yeah.
Who doesn't do that already?
You feel like, why did I just not have this stupid weakness?
No, we have to have it.
Uh, that was some disgusting hate mongering.
You literal Nazis.
Another seven hour eFap mini soon.
Also rags the hellfire droid is great.
Just accept it and move on.
Oh, no, it just doesn't seem very
diversitile or practical to me.
Diversitile?
I just don't, I just don't buy it.
I just don't buy it.
Diversitile.
Dave.
Thanks for all the entertainment.
Also, hi rags.
Hello.
Thank you for watching.
Did you hear about the Ethiopian kid
who fell in the crocodile pit?
He ate three of them before they could pull him out.
Oh, that's funny.
Still on 72, but Shad is a really good eFap guest.
And while his book has had some flaws,
especially in the first arc,
I'm looking forward to the next one.
Well, all right.
I don't know if Shad is still in chat or not,
but I'm sure he would put a thumbs up.
Hey rags.
Hey.
How would you describe the euphoric
transcendental state one is left in
after viewing the French masterpiece Le Fromage?
And then my heart with pleasure fills
and dances with the daffodil.
And the guy said, no spoilers, please.
So what you said was fine.
Oh, no, no spoilers.
Oh, you blew it.
My face when Jaja Abrams
actually scaled Rise of Skywalker down.
What do you mean scale it down?
Did he?
Was it supposed to be?
Oh, oh, because we read out that
it was across the entire galaxy
that the First Order were doing their tisms.
Oh, right.
Yeah, the whole galaxy.
They have that kind of manpower
from capturing all those children.
Not the whole galaxy, you guys.
You're misrepresenting the film.
A few planets were spared.
That's so tough.
You know what?
It made it worse when they said that
because if they had said,
oh, it's spread across the galaxy,
you could be like, oh, they don't mean every planet.
They just mean like, you know,
a few system, maybe a few star destroyers
in like, like, like, you know, areas.
And then they go,
a few planets didn't have things
that had been taken over.
You're like, oh,
oh, every planet has been occupied.
A new planet.
There are a few systems, a few planets.
You know, like maybe three or four,
maybe five.
Yeah, it's pretty much.
Yeah, just cool.
Not that anyone knows
which ones they are
because galactic communication
has been severed.
The only way to fix it
is to activate the beacon
on the Jedi Temple on Coruscant.
What if the First Order
only had like two planets,
but this was this title crawl
was written by someone
who lives on one of the ones
that they've got
and the communication is blocked
that they don't know.
That's not true.
You just think there's one planet
in the galaxy.
True the whole galaxy, idiot.
Except that one over there.
Just the idea
that you could even block
communications galaxy wide
between planets is like,
I just don't like,
I don't buy that.
That seems insane to me.
That's not something
they would explain.
Hell, hell no.
Or they would either
would not explain it at all
or they'd say,
oh, it's this one antenna
and then they blow it up
and then everyone
can talk to each other.
Do we even read
the explanation
for how they beat the First Order
in that?
Was it even in there?
No, I swear we didn't get that far.
Well, no, but we finished it.
It ended.
We finished the whole thing.
How did it end?
We even saw the Ray Skywalker thing.
All it said was
Finn led an uprising.
I'm just like,
so I guess that was it.
Oh, that was it.
Oh, okay.
They didn't get into
very specific details
on choreography.
That just highlights
how fucking inept
the First Order
were from the get go.
It's like your entire team
turned on you.
It's like, oh.
Well, it's weird.
You'd think that once we had
like total galactic control,
they'd be like, yeah.
It's even worse
because like in the OT,
if you had said that had happened,
I would just need justification
to prove to me
that all these like signed up
or drafted people
had a reason to believe,
yes, that the Empire is evil
and we're turning on them
to help the rebels
because this has all been horrible
and we shouldn't be doing this.
You can't even do it
with the First Order
because they're all brainwashed.
That was the whole point.
You have to invent shit
like, oh, the Force woke them up.
Like, oh.
The fucking Force
slouching his ass all day long.
The Force could have saved
everybody ages ago.
It just wakes them all up at once.
Hux and Fazbear are like, oh, shit.
All the stormtroopers
are against us now.
Kick J for not liking Space Force.
Why'd you make them people?
Not my fault, but it's bad.
Oh, another slap
to the rules of space.
I'm kidding.
It's subjective.
It's it's just OK.
It's not that it's bad.
It's that I personally
don't like doing the jokes.
Tell us a boomer joke
and space balls
that you didn't like.
They're combing the desert.
Oh, it's an actual poem.
That's hilarious.
Oh, no, I can't believe
you didn't find that funny.
I fucking lost my shit at that joke.
That's hilarious.
Like, when I was way younger
and definitely not a boomer,
I laughed at that.
I sound like that sounds
like boomer talk to me.
I'm not even like,
I don't even.
This is just funny to me.
This is funnier than space balls
is me saying how bad space balls.
I mean, you cited like
one of the strongest
and memorable jokes
and said it was a bad.
Yeah, that's that's one.
That's and I should say a lot.
I'm waiting for chat
to fucking arrest you.
Yeah, Jay is the 13th
doctor of EFAP guests.
Oh, wow.
No, I'm going to go kill myself.
Oh, well.
Maybe you could renounce
your hatred for space balls
on deathbed though.
Just before so that people.
And I'm good.
I hate it.
I just think I don't like I don't
I don't hate being
but I do hate being bored.
Like I don't hate things
that make me bored.
I was like, no, I was just doing
something else.
Also, high regs.
Hmm, hello.
As a sexy doggo and a good boy,
how do you play games
without opposable thumbs?
Oh, they're there when I need them.
Also high gym and regs.
Oh, I assume that was for metal,
but he abandoned the stream.
So sorry about that.
Yeah, sorry.
Betrayed you.
Betrayed just like the German.
Jedi temple is in the end
of Return of the Jedi.
Oh, in the special edition.
Oh, so okay.
I understand this one.
So we were wondering
if the Jedi temple would even exist.
And I guess they're saying
by continuity of Return of the Jedi,
it does, but I was about to say,
like, I really don't have
a memory for that.
And I'm wondering if that
is in the special version.
I know Coruscant still existed
and the building perhaps still exists,
but do they actually show
the Jedi temples, you know,
in a structure and everything at any point?
I don't know.
I don't remember it.
I have no memory of this place.
I know that reference.
Was Steamboat added into Captain Marvel
because they were too cowardly
to use an Ewok?
Yes.
We know this is true.
Just a reminder that
Star Destroyers have a crew
of 37,000 with 9,700 of them
being stormtroopers.
How the fuck would
trebles capture one of those things?
Yeah, I don't know.
Because little stormtroopers are shit.
Ha ha ha ha.
It was an uprising.
That explains all of it.
Oh, fuck.
There was an uprising.
Damn it.
That'll do it.
Esky uprisings.
Yeah, they convinced all
the tens of thousands of people to
on that one ship.
That one ship in particular.
They just
had enough.
They just had enough.
There was a stormtrooper
trying to get a juice box
out of the vending machine.
They got stuck and he was like,
that's it.
I've had enough.
Fuck, damn it.
And then he went to HR
and he's like,
hey, can I get my money back
from the vending machine?
I'm like, oh, it's not us.
You have to call the company
specifically and then leave them a note
and then we'll see
if they can get back to you.
He's like, just get me
the fucking juice.
And he calls them and then they're like,
you need to talk to your superiors
first to get clearance
and he talks to the guy
and he's like, no, not me.
You need to talk to
one of the captains.
And he's like, really?
He goes to talk to the captain
and he's like,
you're gonna have to wait
for an appointment.
We're very busy.
He's like, once the juice box, man.
Saying all the gamers
rose up on the Star Destroyer.
Why didn't Vader build castle
on Tatooine sand?
But for his hatred.
Yeah.
Have you guys ever met
a fan in real life
who recognized your voice
rags and molar?
No.
No.
No.
I have.
Yeah.
I've met three.
You don't meet people.
One of them was
on my course at uni.
He knew my channel.
He didn't know
he could eat this fucking shit.
And then I was at a party.
It was a big nerd party.
And like they didn't even
they didn't recognize my voice.
They were talking about
they got talking about
they met molar.
They mentioned you.
And I just heard that.
And I was like, huh.
I was like, I know him.
And they were like, hang on.
And then after I said that,
they recognized my voice.
It was funny.
And there were two of them there.
So that's that's me.
Oh, I mentioned if not you
by name, though.
It's okay, buddy.
Get him next time.
Really liked deep space nine.
They might be listening right now.
Hi, guys.
Fuck you, guys.
You didn't even mention rags.
What the hell?
All right.
That's cool, though.
It's funny.
I like to keep a low profile anyway.
So not even bothered.
I could see a whole sitcom
on Luke haunting Kyle.
I fucking yeah,
I'd watch the shadow.
That'd be great.
Knocking objects over.
Blowing on his ear while he sleeps.
Just being.
He's like,
Luke, stop it.
Stop it.
No, don't sleep tight if you can.
9-11 was just a mission to light
the New York City beacons.
The beacons are lit.
New York calls for aid.
Oh, shit.
They really need some help.
They'll never the other one.
Uh, well, my third watch
of Efap Backlog.
I'm not even bored.
I'm going to start sending out of context.
I'm going to start sending
out of context Efap quotes every stream.
This first one is oxygen
is an animal trapped inside of a cloud.
You know, I would love to see is a quiz
based on is this a real Efap quote or not?
Well, we kind of yeah,
we didn't do that in the 50s.
We sort of had it.
We had to guess.
The problem here is that like.
We've said so much for so long
that in my own quotes,
I would forget and be like,
No, that wasn't me.
We did that.
We literally got loads of it wrong.
We were like, Oh, I'm pretty sure though.
Okay.
Yeah, we took the quiz with Wolf and everything.
And we crazy as terrible at it.
And like, either if it's a real quote or not,
or if and then if it is a real quote,
who ended up saying it?
That'd be fun.
I want to see that.
I mean, Efap 100 is going to be here in,
well, half a year or so.
So when we start getting close to that,
I'm going to have to start doing
some serious collections
for all the different things
people are going to want to send in,
including possibly some kind of
Efap quote quiz when we have to guess shit.
People are gonna be disappointed
if that stream is only 30 hours long, aren't they?
Pretty much.
Yeah, you have to beat 30 hours like that.
You have to.
There's no choice now.
You're going to see I was one minute fine.
Well, you could just do the thing
where you like let the stream progress
without you while you sleep.
Do I have a nap quick?
Yeah.
And if you start like one of the parts,
then go have a sleep.
You shouldn't sleep for more than 12 hours.
If you do, that means you've got a sleep problem.
Sleep diabetes.
Yeah, sleep diabetes.
It was just on the tip of my tongue.
That way you can do that.
You could make it last 48 hours with a sleep in it.
But do that.
The script is shit,
but at least the shit is in the toilet
instead of being smeared all over the living room.
All right, I can do that, I suppose.
There you go.
That's a really good analogy.
And they steal unfinished Star Destroyer from Kuat.
Oh, like it's.
Is it like being created or something
and it's not finished
and that's how they're able to steal it?
Still seems a little tismy to me,
but I'll let it go.
Like I would have thought it would take
a decent sized crew to be able to man and function
and push that thing into any way shape or difference.
You know what I mean?
But all right, fine.
Yeah, absolutely.
Everyone asked the doctor who,
but never asked the doctor how.
That is why they never save themselves.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hi.
And Jay, find your mail.
I found it.
It was in the fridge.
Oh, Jay, will you marry me?
Yes.
Take Jay.
Sorry, dude.
Oh, also.
Hi there.
Well, I was a roller coaster man.
Peter Cushion made two Doctor Who movies in the 60s.
He also starred in Son of Hitler in 1979.
Okay.
Hitler's son.
He's talking.
He's also the doctor.
Which doctor was he?
He played an alternate version of the,
he like, it was like a separate universe.
It was the movie universe that had two movies in it.
He was the first doctor.
No, but it's really fun.
Like it's, I've got full on nostalgia for it.
That's really fun movies.
So that's it.
That's stupid and campy.
A canon Jedi temple was turned into Palp's palace.
All right.
Unrelated, but Andy Worsky now has a channel called
Subcultured, where he discusses gaming.
It's pretty lame.
And it's like he's reading a wiki lol.
That's what he's doing now.
I'll take a look.
I'll take a look.
Sabacultured.
What is this?
There you go.
I'm getting weird results.
Peter Cushing, Doctor Who?
No, I was looking for subcultured, but I don't know
what I'm getting for results.
Okay.
Well, good for him, I guess.
Bob is unironically not as venomous or eloquent
as literal Nazis.
What a time to be alive.
I don't know.
I think he's more venomous at times.
I think you got to understand.
They probably did.
There are probably much worse quotes than that
from literal Nazis.
But like the point was to get ones that would
sound like Bob would say them.
Yeah.
Bob sounds.
That doesn't make it better, though.
Oh, it's still awful.
Bob sounds more bitter than Hitler.
He is.
He's like the most bitter person on this planet.
He thinks people stole away from him the chance
to be in a robot body and transcend existence.
And if I was Bob, I would really want to be in a robot body.
Yeah, I think if I was in his body, I'd be.
Yeah, I would.
Nazis see themselves as victims of Jews.
It's a result of a human group tendency to blame
people above them for all their problems.
Oh.
I would say that Jews are like above.
Well, no, it depends how you want to.
Jews are above Nazis in the hierarchy,
not in the power hierarchy, though, I don't think,
depending on the area you're talking about.
Will the Bob quiz be on the podcast website?
I don't know.
Kieberkins hasn't updated it as of recently.
I don't know if there are problemos or notos,
but I'm sure that it would be linked there eventually.
Mein Kampf ASMR is a thing.
I don't know what that means, but I feel this should be known.
Also, HiRug.
Oh, hello.
You guys call an ER crazy?
Shake my head.
Oh, I get it.
I understand.
I follow.
Don't label and dismiss.
Even if it's a Nazi.
I mean, sure, I'd be up for listening to individual arguments.
Yeah, like still.
It's like there it's like labeling and dismissing
is a completely acceptable reaction to someone telling you they're a Nazi
or like someone who was clearly a Nazi.
But like, you can still like listen to what they have to say.
That's fine.
I mean, and engage with the ideas that they have.
And then, you know, obviously, a few of them, if you don't refute them,
that's not fine.
Someone just despised anyone who isn't white.
And then there was a discussion going on about like the viability of two people
about whether or not they were right for a thing.
And the guy was just like, obviously, the fucking white is the way to go.
I'd be like, he's the fucking racist dude.
Who cares what he says?
Like you might be like, that's labeling and dismissing.
It's like, but he's like super open about that's exactly how he judges everything.
And it's like, all right, listen to the argument still though.
And you're like,
uh, and then the argument is why people are better.
You're like, god damn it.
Kick Jew.
I mean, J also halal rags.
Oh, wait.
Oh, I'll rags, but spelled with an A.
All right.
Oh, hey.
I believe they called me the J word.
Yeah.
Hi.
Hey, y'all.
It's H I A L.
Hi, y'all.
Hi, y'all.
If you ascribe choices to brain issues, that removes moral content.
Kick J.
Yeah, that's not how I was defining.
I think we were pretty clear.
I don't mean like, you know, pure just mental deficiency and like, you know, irrationality.
Hello, Efap.
Just wanted to let everyone know my wife and I made pickles.
Very good.
Rags.
Did the Nazis deserve to get AIDS from drinking Adolf's bathwater?
No.
Anyone think that rags just likes to hate and insult people needs to watch this stream?
He extend a poor even to a Nazi to try and make them good.
I'm sure I'm I imagine I'll be used against him rather than in favor of him.
Oh, yeah, I'm I'm certain they'll find a way to make me a very, very bad person.
Well, that's okay.
I'm used to it.
The new extreme right parties that have inherit the regressive and ideology of a regime that was
considered fascist and the leader in my country, Franco, a genocide aren't crazy.
They are populist, close minded, that know how to reach people with simplistic resolutions to
inconsistent problems.
Yeah, again, I just have to keep clarifying crazy was clearly like a placeholder word used very
casually didn't actually mean they have this mental issue.
And I also explicitly said no, if it's the majority opinion, they're not crazy.
They're like the it's a different thing.
To go with the majority opinion just means that you're not like thinking about stuff too hard.
You're trying to say that anyone who goes to the majority opinions is a Nazi.
Yes.
Yes.
Were out.
After World War Two, there was psychology tests done on high ranking Nazis.
It found that they are no more crazy than anyone else.
They genuinely believe their cause.
Again, the thing that I explicitly said, I was not I'm talking about neo.
Was this before that?
Oh, it's kind of hard to tell that.
Back from watching 1917 tripwire rat is bad rat.
True.
Have a good evening, guys.
Hope you feel well.
I got to go watch Jojo with the family now.
Cinema Roberto is a lunatic.
Also, Sansis and Smash.
Very true.
Very good.
Just joined, but I'm guessing a large majority of these are Bob.
I don't know what the final count was on Bob to Nazi quotes.
I would say we went about 65% Bob, I think.
Um, Rags, it appears that a boogaloo see likely in Virginia.
Yeah, we'll see what happens over there.
There are some shenanigans happening.
Nice icon, Rags.
Oh, thank you very much.
It was a I noticed it in the fat meat thing.
I'll, uh, uh, probably for a while.
I really, really like it.
It's done by let me click the button here on the thing.
Um, R Voltron.
I think it is, but I love this one.
I really, really like it.
It's very nice.
I like your love to like very quickly there.
I think you're being disingenuous.
Oh, get cold.
I stared at that that face.
That damn smile.
Also.
Hello, mauler.
Hello.
And everyone else.
If you're still here when this is red.
If I take on the banality of evil.
Again, this is possibly the most varied.
If app that's ever existed,
like the amount of changes in topic and discussion has been absolutely insane.
Yeah.
Hi, Wags.
People.
This is this would be a good first.
If they have 12 hours to spare,
this will give you a really good idea of what the fuck this show is.
Would it though?
I don't know.
Also, they'd be watching the end of the I hate everything arc.
You can't do that.
You have to see all the other episodes that led up to it.
So much lower.
You have no idea.
Hi, Wags.
Hello.
Oh, hi.
Hey.
That was supremely done.
You do the best sheave bits and voice in Efap.
That was direct.
I do.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
Bob is just.
That's really nice.
Yes, it is.
Bob is just Hitler without a gram of charisma.
Yeah, if there's one thing that really describes Bob,
it's just like he's just not charismatic at all.
Ain't nothing going on there that makes you go like,
this guy, it's very easy listening.
Any quote that isn't a Bob quote just isn't one yet.
At the end of the day, they are just bone and meat.
Damn, Bob.
That's some epic villa dialogue.
Yeah, honestly, if you got a copy of every tweet he's ever written,
you could make a really good set of like,
you've got everything you need for the diabetes origin movie.
You just got to place them all in correct areas.
Change a bit here and there.
Add a love interest.
A Miss Diabeto, if you will.
A Miss Diabeto.
Oh, that poor woman.
Perhaps she wasn't real.
She's a hologram.
Yeah.
That's what turns him cruel.
The most cruel of holograms.
So Friend wanted to get into Efap,
so I made her a list, a few lists of the episodes.
One list is plot episodes, another is memes,
and then ones I don't care about.
For example, Spooda Man debate.
My God, we really are a TV show at this point.
What are the plot episodes, do you reckon?
Is it covering stuff like Jenny and Ralph and, I guess, Jack?
You're right.
They must be the plot ones.
Coming in at Super Chiz.
Chiz loses.
Uh, Chiz?
Chiz?
He had Tim Pool in here to talk about Star Wars.
He hates the new movies, plus I bet he would love the memes.
Jeb 2020.
Jeb 2020?
I would hope he would.
Go Jeb.
I always feel bad when we have someone who's very unaware of memes on when we do any memes,
because they're always just like, what is this fucking insanity?
And we're like, yay.
It's all funny.
I'm still at work, and you mad lads are still going.
Yes, we are.
I like a bit at the end of Starship Troopers,
where Carl Jenkins places his hand on the brain bug,
reading its mind before exclaiming to the other soldiers,
it's Alfred.
Oh, it's Alfred.
I was actually expecting him to say, it's afraid.
I was just like, yeah, yeah.
It's a cool bit, but it's like, no, he's subverted my expectations
with a meme that is apparently dead.
I guess that, you know.
Expectations.
They are subverted.
No, my expectations.
That is going to be a meme.
Yes.
Hey, Mola.
I think you skipped my first video meme.
You saw two with Wolf, but there's one about you and Jay that didn't pop up.
Also, I made a new one.
I'll have to, like I said, it's a big old,
everything gets thrown into a giant turbine, and I try and get to get to the things.
Sometimes I miss them, but as you would have seen,
Not I.
Oh, I know that one.
That's pronounced naughty.
I know they did, but they did something cool.
Oh, the other one who did me is the Joker.
No one would do you as the Joker.
Well, that's where you're wrong, kiddo.
And I believe if a movie tanks or isn't released, the company can write it off somehow.
If I heard you right, then another Efab is on Tuesday.
It's great as it's my birthday.
And if I remember correctly, Rags birthday is around now as well.
So hi, Rags.
Hi.
And happy birthday to both of us, if I'm right.
I believe you are.
Oh, hi, Rags.
Hello.
You should drop the SJW stuff and focus on game reviews.
Your reviews are top tier, but it isn't 2016 anymore.
And SJW is a low hanging fruit.
Some are.
Depends on what I'm interested in.
I'm definitely thinking about getting games in here,
just because it's starting to appeal to me a little bit more.
But I don't know.
I'll probably just have a variety.
What is your next project, Ragarinos?
I guess the big the next big thing will be that I would call project is Mandalorian.
Moojwe.
Ask the panel what they think of Destiny.
I found his channel after watching the PSASitch versus knobs debate.
He has some views.
He does have some views.
He's extremely controversial.
He's like Movie Bob, but if it went right.
And what I mean by that is there's no one else on that team pretty much.
But Destiny has got a pretty enormous fan base
because he's not like Movie Bob when it comes to explaining how he got to his conclusion.
And he's willing to have conversations with people.
I don't think Movie Bob has ever actually been live.
I think we talked about this before, but I remember a single instance of Movie Bob live.
Maybe he's not even real.
He's a construction.
Yeah, Destiny pisses off like everybody.
So that's what reminds me of the sort of Movie Bob side of it.
But I mean, I fucking hang out with Destiny before Movie Bob a million times over.
Yeah.
I actually love Mauler, just saying.
Well, thank you.
Very kind.
Hey, Mauler.
Hello.
When you and Metal hang out IRL, do you use your internet names
and referring to each other in front of family members, etc.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Metal swaps between my screen name and my real name.
It's like, I'm not even sure that he would know exactly when.
It's just like a sort of wherever it feels right sort of thing.
And I pretty much always call him Metal because I've always ever known him as.
The thing with Metal was that he used to hang out with different people in my real life.
So they would all be calling me non-screen name.
And so he would feel weird to call me screen name at that point.
Like that would kind of be how it works.
Kind of interesting, actually.
What's what's the case for you Rags when you meet
instant people in real life?
They just call you Rags.
I don't know the meetups and stuff.
People still call me.
People still just call me Rags.
It's just simple.
And it's not like and it's it sounds mundane.
So it's not like a crazy name.
You know, it's pretty simple.
Pretty easy.
Just kind of yeah.
But yeah, I would ask Jay, but I don't know if anyone cares.
Who I've never met anyone from the internet in real life yet,
but I don't know what it will be too.
How many people tell you, hey, cinema sin sins.
Do you want a drink?
Does that happen a lot?
No, no.
When are you making your next cinema sins video?
Where you rip into cinema, but I can't be bothered.
Like, you know, it's like that video was so bad.
I was just like, I just do it with us.
It'll be both but do it with us.
Yeah, maybe.
I believe it was the art of war that said divide a nation's
opinion on a Star Wars movie and the country will soon fall.
It's true.
That's what Putin was getting Rags to do.
Oh, yeah, man.
He flat's got a plan.
Like I knew what's up.
Mola rumored sequel to a quiet place.
Thoughts.
Oh, I read that out earlier.
Like I said, there's a trailer.
Hello, Mooper.
Hello.
Hello, Rags.
Hello.
Hello, my Ewoks.
That's you guys.
Come on.
No, I meant I meant.
He's gone.
Shake you guys at this point.
We've only been here for like a few minutes and a few hours put together.
Like, geez, just really just seconds.
Quick question.
Fuck Mary.
Kill Daisy Ridley.
Brie Lawson, Amy Schumer.
She was what?
Kill Amy Schumer immediately.
That's done killer.
She's done.
Fuck Brie Lawson.
And the other one.
Yeah.
Mary Daisy Ridley.
Fuck Brie Lawson.
I think that makes sense.
I couldn't.
I could.
Brie Larson seems like a total cunt.
I don't think I could get along with it.
So yeah, I would just get in.
Get done as fast as fucking possible.
I mean, I would fucking 30 second that bitch if I could just get it.
Get it out done.
I don't think she's physically unattractive.
No, she's not physically unattractive.
But she's mentally unattractive.
Go for a good gift.
Go for it.
Or alternatively, do you just hate fucker for as long as you possibly can?
Yeah, that would that would be my choice.
I can't.
I don't even know why they threw Amy Schumer in there.
What do you think was going to happen?
She would be upset that I was getting more out of it.
Um, I mean, this is Brie Larson we're talking about, right?
She just be mad at him for existing.
Maula, the woman I'm currently banging convinced me to watch Firefly with her and it's awesome.
Really makes me want to watch Buffy Joss Whedon's The Man.
Just curious, what are your thoughts on Firefly?
I think it's really good.
Wasn't as passionate about it as it was with Buffy and Angel,
but the problem for Firefly overseas is it's only one season,
but they do great for the one season they have.
It's a cool sci-fi bounty hunters cowboys in space,
which kind of funny considering Mandalorian recently.
But I don't know if you should watch the movie they made to square off the season.
They made like a sort of goodbye movie for it.
And it's from what I remember, because this is the thing.
This was before I was super into like understanding what fans and the discourse around the thing was.
I think people are a bit iffy on whether or not they think serenity,
which is the movie finale thing is good or not.
I remember liking it a lot, but I haven't seen it in a while.
And yeah, if you check out Buffy, give it a while.
You know, you're going to have to give it a while.
It starts rough.
Thoughts on Superman red sun.
I have no idea what that is.
Anyone else you're know what a Superman red sun is?
No, I want to say that it sounds a little bit familiar,
but I don't quite remember.
Yeah, I don't really know anything about it.
Guten Abend her rags.
Hello.
Oh, my God.
We need a meme video of rags as lust and molars gluttony now.
I mean, I don't see why people can't come up with it.
Oh, hi, Jay.
You are my gateway to rags and molar.
Thanks.
Neat.
Jay, you're to blame for that.
They're trying to tell you.
I've never I've not heard of many people going that way around,
but I'm sure they exist.
Neat.
Also terre rags.
I don't know what language it is.
I'm going to assume that means hello and hello to you.
Hi, guys.
What are your favorite trials from your favorite characters in any media?
Trials.
Trials?
Breaking the wall, heaven sent.
Wait, what did you just say?
Breaking the wall, heaven sent.
It's really good.
Watch it.
Is that Doctor Who?
Yes, it is.
Trials.
I guess like time is a really good one as well.
That's my favorite one.
That's my favorite piece of media.
Is it like what is your favorite adversity your favorite characters have been through?
Is that kind of the question?
Or is it like trial scenes?
Oh, like I was assuming it was the more, you know,
metaphorical meaning of trial, I guess.
Well, I'm just wondering if he means trial as in tribulation.
Something that somebody had to overcome.
This is a bit too like the other problem is we're running out of time.
But I don't think I could answer that without thinking through all of my favorite media and
then like what and then going over not just what the thing was, but why it was so I don't
know.
Well done, I suppose.
So a bit complicated to be able to answer something so thingy.
But I mean, I could probably go for a pretty relatively generic answer.
All of the trials that Iron Man goes through throughout the MCU comes across as quite the
fighter when it comes to being beaten down and getting back up sort of thing.
That's going to be my standard answer.
And Jay's gone with the Doctor Who reference.
What would the two remaining masses like to go with?
So like we're talking trial scenes like in court.
No, like a difficulty a character overcame in any of your stories with your favorite characters.
Oh, yeah, that time that they got sued and had to go to court.
That was pretty rough.
But let's see.
Frodo and Sam, it feels very, very satisfying when they get past all that and they get back.
You just feel so happy for him.
You're really rooting for him.
And I feel really Jim Hawking from Treasure Planet.
I really like his his old adventure thing that he does.
Let me see.
Big.
I would say, huh.
How about I forget the name of the character, but the actor Tom Cruise and legend.
Feel like he went on a trippy journey to go and save that chick in the unicorn and everything.
Let's see.
I forget the I forget the name of the protagonist, but the guy in Coco.
Coco's good.
Yeah, cover is really good.
Uh, let's see.
Jim, Jim, Jim, I forget his name.
Hawk and Jim Hawkins.
Is that his name?
James Hawkins.
Uh, I forget the name.
I forget his name.
I just know he gets called Jimbo.
Uh, what are other big ones?
Sorry, I went to get a drink.
What are what are we talking about here?
Oh, thank God.
I was going to say you just go with a stand in one ranks.
Don't have to try and name as many as you possibly can.
Just a favorite adversity moments that characters overcame for a trial, if you will.
Okay, we're still on that.
Okay.
So I'm surprised that we've taken a while to move on from something on eFAT.
Well, I was away from the computer a little longer than I wanted to be.
Again, can this be any media?
I think so.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Hmm.
I liked, well, was that really a trial?
It just kind of seems like another arc.
Shoot.
Okay.
Nevermind.
It's hard because like I.
Because to me, a trial wouldn't really be so much an arc,
but maybe like a villain to take out or something.
You can go with that.
That's where.
Yeah.
Jay.
Jay's already answered it.
Yeah, but add two to it.
No, we need to do the opposite of that.
We've literally got about.
Take two of the ones that you did and remove them.
We got 12 minutes left and we're relatively close to finishing this episode.
Super chats.
Is it going to be another stream after that or not?
Oh wait.
No, if we're close.
Yeah.
I do.
I mean, it would be weird.
I think that that answer suffices.
Okay.
I'm going to create us killing Zeus.
Yeah.
Okay.
Wow.
Spoilers rags.
You can't move me.
You don't have the applicable skills.
Also high rags.
Oh, hi.
I can't woo him.
Move him.
Move him.
I can't move him.
I don't have the applicable skill.
Like, are you so fucking Titanically fat?
I don't have the strength skills.
I don't understand that.
I'm not sure.
You can't move me.
You don't have the applicable skills.
Like I have to train harder.
You guys do talk about the clone wars.
I know that show inside out.
I mean, if ever it was going to happen, it'd be a while from now
because we haven't even started watching it.
But yeah.
Wasn't that show good?
I mean, I hear good things.
I hear a lot of good things.
Because for a while, the discussion was all about the Mandalorian.
But I didn't remember that Clone Wars was favorable to people.
The stupid bots are still turning up every once in a while and in the chat.
I was thinking to myself, right, was that they've got the,
they can copy other messages to appear as though they're actually there.
And I was thinking to myself, like, the only thing they need now
is a believable name because they're stupid tism names and making them obvious.
And I was thinking to myself, like, wait, but if they get a normal day,
that no one's gonna actually know that they're trying to sell anything in the first place.
We've successfully integrated and nobody was pointless.
But that entire mission is just to be bots in the chat and not be discovered.
They're passing the Turing test.
Yeah, they are.
It's kind of creepy.
We're getting Detroit become human in here.
My God.
This time super chatting currently on eFap59.
I'm catching up, you messes.
Also, keep Jay on.
All right.
I know everybody but rags is is.
Oh, hi, I guess.
But hi.
I wish that one guy a happy peepee too.
Oh, I'm stamping this message.
Okey dokey.
Unless they want me to timestamp it.
It is 653 a.m. in Britannia.
What are your thoughts on fan theories trying to fix TLJ's hyperspace plot hole
that it's a very small window and it's hard as fuck to achieve?
If you make it a one out of a million chance,
it becomes a retarded choice by Holdo to the point of absurdity.
Yeah, to the point where she's sitting here saying like,
oh, oh, oh, you bet our lives on bad odds.
What the fuck?
I'd have to just, I don't know that one in a million.
That's beyond.
If you were like, what are the plans do we have?
It's literally like, I don't know, sit here.
It's like, that is a better plan.
You guys have to watch Movie Bob Review on the raid.
He goes on a rant where he refuses to review American Reunion
because he was bullied in high school.
Raid Shadow Legends?
Raid Shadow Legends.
Well, he's in high school.
That poor Mario man.
Mario man.
I can't imagine why anyone would take issue with Bob.
No, neither can I.
With clones, we could have 24-7 efaps.
True.
If you're just infinite running efap.
I would never clone myself.
I know I would try and kill me and steal my life
because I would be paranoid and think he me wants to harvest my organs.
Oh, God.
What if your clone turns evil?
Like, if Rags 2 became SJW Rags, also high Rags.
Hell, he would kill it immediately.
The second it goes, hey, maybe women deserve the right
to make them equal to men.
Rags would fucking chop his head off.
Like, nope.
Rags would be Rimmer in the clone episode of Red Dwarf.
I need to see Red Dwarf apparently because I still haven't seen that.
Uh, Rags sucking his hypothetical deke.
Jesus.
Can you imagine something more incredible?
You have to spell really creatively with these.
Oh, yeah, that was from the guy who just did that.
It's very creative.
Just for reference, you are now nine hours in.
Oh, and so we're two and a half hours behind.
Please rank these Superman actors from best to worst performance.
Reeve, Ruth, Kavil, Kane, Welling.
I'm not familiar enough with most, if not all of them.
Kavil's the only one I fucking know.
Like, I know Reeve, but like, I can't remember enough
about the films to really make a judgment.
Feels bad, man.
Anyone else want to give it a shot or?
Nope, sorry, I didn't watch a lot of Superman.
You've all been, I don't know, I just don't remember enough
about the Superman.
Yeah.
Jay, your idea of merging two minds was done in JJBA.
I don't know what that is, but I agree.
It's our adventure.
JJ's beauty.
It was all for the Steven Universe.
After transformation, mine and her wild fantasy novel
slash manga did the one consciousness, two bodies.
One body was female, one male.
Fair enough.
Super Star Destroyers aren't Star Destroyers, though.
Well, at that point, I can't give a good answer
because I don't know the significant differences
between the individual Imperial Star Destroyers, I'm afraid.
Doesn't that make them bigger?
Like, Super Star Destroyer, surely that's a Super Star Destroyer, right?
I guess they're actually saying that that excludes them
from the tier list of Star Destroyers
because they are in the Super Star Destroyer tier list.
I don't know, Jay, I'm not a cat.
I haven't read the extended unitisms.
Mooler, in your most seductive gedel voice, please say,
I'm going to suck my dangest tonight.
And thanks for that, dude.
I put salt shakers up my bum to season my toilet.
Such a child.
Uh, timestamp 1240 a.m.
U.S. Eastern time.
Hi, rags.
Hello.
Also, as a follow up to those requests,
he said, this is what I spend my money on dot dot dot.
Yup.
A noble cause.
A noble cause, indeed.
Tell Jay he's wrong for not liking Blazing Saddles.
Jay, you're wrong for not liking Blazing Saddles.
Wait, you don't like Blazing Saddles?
No, I don't like it.
It was boring.
An old lady said the N word.
I know we have to deal with this.
Rags is fucking annoying.
I heard my grandma say the N word ones.
She used to tell.
She didn't call anyone.
She was saying back in my day, we used to call.
Like Maccabees or like almonds or whatever.
You know, you know how it goes.
So we've got like four minutes.
So I'm going to try and blast through these quickly.
I'm new to video essays, but a fan of the traditional form.
I intend to review one of your reviews as my first video.
Thank you for the inspiration.
See you in a year.
Oh my god.
In a year?
I'm going to do an ex-super chat.
Go, go, go.
All right.
Good.
Yeah, good stuff.
Hey, all.
Have you heard of a guy running a YouTube channel called Sinatra Says?
He seems like the type that would fit within the efap pantheon of demigods.
Also, high regs.
Hey, yeah.
I've watched this stuff before.
I have heard of him too.
Yes.
I don't know that one.
Maybe I've heard of him.
I don't know that one.
Usually reacts to YouTube videos with uncut commentary and such.
You know, it can burn the heathen Jay.
Yes.
High regs.
Who's a good boy?
I am.
I am.
Who's a good boy.
Yes, you are.
Good dog.
Yeah, that's me.
Go to sleep, you forks.
Oh, my God.
We're getting there.
Maybe later.
It's almost midnight.
This is actually one of those streams where I would love to know how long we would have gone
if we didn't have the cap, actually.
I'd be curious.
Oh, man.
The only problem with Hail Fire Droid is that it had a tendency to run out of ammunition
when in elongated battles.
The CIS actually attempted to fix this by creating a droid that would manufacture and feed it ammo.
I mean.
Yeah, that's got to suck.
Before Shad comes back, get Skallagrim on Efap, then awkwardly introduce him whenever Shad recovers.
I assume they've met.
Skallagrim on Efap.
Yeah, Skallagrim.
Yeah, Skallagrim seems like a cool guy.
Talk about Imbruges because I paid two dollars.
Wait, who's seen that here out of us?
I haven't seen it, but I have heard about it.
We will watch that eventually.
It's fucking great.
Well, then I can't really talk about it.
It's a really good film, and I'll get Rags to watch it, and then we'll talk about it on Efap.
Okay, we'll do it.
If you cover Cinema Sin's Joker, cover Black Pill's King of Joker driver.
It's an awful video, and I think he's an alt-right type.
Hey, Rags.
King of Joker driver?
We, well.
Maybe we'll be able to, because if we do the Cinema Sin, Cinema Wins back to back Efap,
that's probably going to be a full episode on its own.
But we'll see.
We'll see.
Joker and TLJ are just these ongoing things, I guess.
No, how dare you, Skallagrim.
People don't turn bad takes about those movies.
Why would we, why would having Skallagrim on with you be a bad thing?
I don't understand.
Maybe they don't, maybe they hate us.
Oh gosh.
Last Super Chat before my piece of shit battery dies.
Better say something clever and insightful.
If you only ever ate toilet paper, would you never need to wipe again?
Well, because you die.
I don't know that that's how that works.
Man who drops.
Man who drop, watch, and toilet bound to have shitty time.
That's pretty good.
So that is all the Super Chats.
I've still got a selection of, if I move over to Streamlabs now, I've got,
I'm not gonna be able to make it and I won't start them,
but I will keep them and I'll read them out.
Well, they'll just be added to the backlog and they'll be the first in the backlog.
Okay, so if ever we get to the overflow, these will be the first to announce it.
I know because I don't want people to feel that the Streamlabs people get fucked over
versus the Super Chat ones, but it's just easier for me to be able to read all of one section out
and then read all of the next section out instead of going back and forth
based on time of delivery, if you know what I mean.
So, oh my god, I'm really running out of time.
Thanks for watching everybody. It's been wonderful.
Thanks for arriving here and listening to us.
Links in the description for people who are here.
Thanks everybody for staying as long as you did.
Next defap is Tuesday at 8pm, I believe, or 9.
It's between then.
Yeah!
Gonna be Arch and Shad as guests.
Gonna be talking about Stormtroopers.
No, Stormtroopers, Starship Troopers.
It's gonna be great.
More things then.
I'm actually out of time.
Goodbye everybody.
Okay, bye!
