He's a very bad person, and I hate every single thing about him.
Literally every single- Oh, no, we're live.
Oh, we are live? Holy crap.
Well, just about to start. It'll be up in just a second.
You are now live. The internet can totally see you.
Hello, people.
How terrifying.
Yeah, it's good to be back.
It's been exactly like a week, but slightly longer,
so it feels like it's been years. That's how it goes.
It does feel like a bit, actually.
It does. I'll be missing it.
You get a lot of like, you know, as soon as you go over a week with Efab,
you get like people being like, hey, when's the next one?
Like, we just did one with 12 hours and it's like, I don't care.
When's the next one?
It's getting popular these days.
There's a lot of people jumping in the chat.
How is everyone? Hello.
I mean, people like Efab and what can I say?
Yeah. Who doesn't?
It's weird, for sure.
I don't know what's wrong with people.
Ultimately, I don't want to judge. Do you guys want to judge? I don't.
Well, sometimes. I mean, I was about to say,
yeah, but I wouldn't tell anybody.
We're going to judge them. It's fine.
We're allowed to judge.
So, yeah, first thing I should say is the rags and wolf
are both unavailable, I'm afraid so.
And that's very unfortunate. I miss those guys.
I know that's the every single time you turn up,
Wolf happens to not be able to turn up.
Like, what's going on?
It's almost like maybe there's some kind of message
that he's trying to avoid you.
It seems like that, but, you know,
he like on one of the other Efabs I was on
like he gave you a shout out.
So huge thumbs up.
Thanks, Wolf. Appreciate it.
And there was this weird, really weird argument
and ended up in the comment replies.
Someone, some guy was attacking me for a subliminal messaging
in promoting my book or something.
And he was like, oh, I remember reading that.
Yeah. That's really subliminal.
Just telling people, hey, I made something.
I started off with hints that I was like
just flashing the book cover.
And then I would back like, oh, hell, what was that?
But Wolf ripped into him savagely.
I couldn't have a laugh of the hell out of it.
It was glorious.
Love you, Wolf. Appreciate it, mate.
You know, you were loved and respected.
We can't have that kind of attitude.
I thought it was weird, though, because like subliminal
as if like you're manipulating your audience without,
you know, without them knowing or something.
You will buy this book, even though at that point,
was it even buyable at that point?
No, it wasn't.
Damn those subliminal messages.
I mean, how dare you want to succeed, you know?
You should just reserve yourself to failure.
That's what I did, and it worked great.
Yeah.
Sword man bad, I guess.
But actually, swords are pretty cool.
They are. I've heard about them.
You can't criticize swords.
Well, I mean, that's like your opinion, bro.
I don't know. Isn't it all subjective?
Is there an objective cool factor to swords?
Oh, yes.
Yes, we all agree on that.
Oh, my goodness.
So what is our roster today?
We've got no new guests.
We've got a flurry of old ones.
How wonderful.
The longest, I believe longest standing guest outside of Jay
or drawing with Jay is Mr.
Fringey. How do you do, sir?
I'm doing very well.
Wonderful.
It's good to have you here.
It's been a while, actually,
since you've been something you've ever laid.
Other than that weird time
we popped into Hellbreed Super Chats.
Yeah, that was a great use of my time.
Like, we were there for four hours.
Just freaking Super Chats.
Next up is the returning master of medieval mischief.
Oh, I just came up with that.
That alliteration, sir.
See, I could be a writings, a writer,
an author, that's the one.
There you go.
How are you, man?
You haven't you've been on.
This is your fourth epap, technically.
How weird is that?
I know.
Yeah, like, gosh, something's wrong with me, clearly.
I'm going great.
I'm going really good for many reasons.
You like Spider-Man.
That's this one, right?
Well, yeah, I do like Spider-Man,
depending on which version.
Because of what you mean by Spider-Man.
Yeah, I know.
But yeah, lots of things to keep me happy at the moment.
So I think things are good.
And finally, returning once again.
I have no idea how many of you have
Daspal Shit has actually been on.
You came early, and then you, like, intermittently jump in.
And you've made some pretty awesome memes, one of which
will be featured one day.
I'm thinking, well, yeah, Fringy's seen it,
because he had to see it.
But how do you do, sir?
Yeah, pretty good.
Pretty good.
Yeah, I would have been on, like, three now.
They're taxing, yeah, about three.
Good to be back.
I don't want to enjoy being here.
That's what I mean.
It's just a full cast.
Everything is no, things can't happen.
But how are you, Mauler?
No, you can't ask that.
That's cheating.
I'm the one that doesn't have any feelings,
because I'm the host.
The hosts never have feelings.
You ever watch, like, who wants to be a millionaire?
Do they ever ask the hosts on that,
how they feel about winning millions?
They never get to.
They don't win millions.
They just earn it every episode.
They just, isn't there a-
That's probably a little too high.
In the newest versions of it now,
like, one of the lifelines is ask the host.
That's what I've heard.
Is it not in your interest as host to sabotage them?
The company you work for is like,
don't let them win, you asshole.
OK, you should host one of them,
but all about, like, medieval stuff.
That would be true.
I just saw something cool in the chat.
Thanks, Daniel.
Appreciate it, man.
Sorry.
That's OK.
Chat are wonderful when they're wonderful.
I am.
The glory.
So today's eFap.
I guess people have already spotted in the title.
It's Spooderman-related.
We actually still haven't managed to get a far from home
related fucking podcast yet.
It's been ages, because a fierce Wolf and Rags hadn't seen it.
And then I think it was Rags hadn't.
And then, like, Wolf was away, and so I was just like,
this is just going to be that one now.
So at one point, we'll talk about that.
It's been long enough that most people would have seen it,
I imagine.
That'll be great.
But there's much to say on this one.
There's a want to, like, have an addendum for the previous eFap,
talking a bit about, like, why Homecoming's not terrible
from a movie standpoint.
Thought it might be worthwhile in actually talking
about, you know, what happens in the film
and why it's, like, decent outside of what happened
on the previous eFap, which was a great exploration
of comic readers versus film lovers slash different values,
I suppose, or different standards framing.
Lots of different words could fit in there.
Well, and interesting.
I actually do want to explore those arguments
in a bit more depth as well,
because I actually feel there was some validity
to what they were trying to say.
And so I have my own way of trying to frame that argument.
And I'm interested to see what you guys say on the subject.
Well, then, yeah.
In that case, I guess we should just try and get started
with Homecoming, because otherwise we're going to be here
for a very long time.
But, so, I don't know, we'll start with,
I got to bring it up briefly in the previous podcast,
but we'll see what you think, Shad,
because you're going to be the main person
to sort of fight against it, if preferred.
If preferred, maybe you'll agree.
Well, see, I should just say this.
I said it on one of the previous eFaps.
I liked Homecoming.
I gave it, like, seven or eight out of 10.
But I actually do understand the arguments
people have been proposing that go against it.
And in actual fact, it's those very same arguments
that made me dislike Far From Home
a lot more than other people.
I saw these kind of indications in Homecoming,
but they were very minor, and I was able to ignore them
and enjoy the film overall,
because there were some interesting,
I guess you could call them risks,
but they were trying some different approaches
with the Peter Parker character.
And I didn't think they were necessarily bad.
I thought some of them were certainly out of character
with the previously established Peter Parker character.
And in that sense, if you were wanting
a more traditional Spider-Man take,
you could take issue with it.
But I did like some of the things that they were trying,
and so I was open to it and stuff.
But I think they really, they took that kind of theme
and then went off the rails with it in Far From Home.
So I'm going to argue the point
that I don't necessarily agree with.
I'm playing devil's advocate.
And the issue that happens when I do this
is that people generally think
that this is definitely my opinion
because I can end up arguing quite strongly for this view
that I'm not fully on board with.
I just want to give validity to the opposing side.
And then people think that's what it is.
I like Homecoming, okay?
I want, I hope everyone will remember that.
Very well.
So I figured a good place to start
would just be Peter Parker's character.
So ignoring any sources,
if I know how this sounds,
because I've said it so many times
and it didn't mean shit in the previous podcast.
I'm going to say it again.
Not pretend for a second that nothing else exists.
How his journey is written,
only considering his time in the MCU continuity
being Civil War and Homecoming.
Obviously I'm not saying you're not allowed
to consider Far From Home.
I'm just saying what happens in Homecoming
with only reference to Civil War and Homecoming
being I see the film about establishing his motivation,
like the why of being a superhero.
I don't know if I should sort of invite everyone
to sort of give their ideas about what they might think
that it was in the film or how well they did it,
but I kind of talked about it last time.
The whole Civil War, he has like the baseline,
what you could call philosophy of,
and some people have a problem with the fact
that he's got this idea rather than us
seeing where it came from.
If you don't do things when bad things happen,
when you have the power to stop them,
then you may as well make them happen, that whole idea.
A lot of people have drawn that the MCU was trying to imply
that something happened with Uncle Ben
and that would have given him that sort of perspective.
I don't know that that's necessary.
I think that that's his sort of perspective regardless.
It may have been Uncle Ben.
It may have been that something happened there.
It may have been in the six months of heroing
or before that that he came to this conclusion,
but it's very undeveloped.
You would expect that.
Well, you would kind of just expect that's what happened.
I mean, if this is a Spider-Man movie,
the unspoken parts of certain actions,
history and stuff like that,
if it isn't mentioned in the film,
the default assumption is to be,
well, what is already established
with the Peter Parker character.
And so you'd assume that Ben, sorry,
Uncle Ben event has already transpired
unless they explicitly state in the movie
that something different has occurred and it's not canon.
So I don't blame people for having that assumption
that Uncle Ben should have already been done.
We've just seen it twice already.
And so my own take was on it.
They didn't need to rehash the same kind of thing.
Like how many times have we seen Bruce Wayne's parents
get killed in Batman and stuff?
I think that is satisfactory for both people
who are too hyper aware of third-party content
and people who aren't aware of any of it at all.
Would you agree with that?
What do you mean by hyper aware of third-party content?
So like if you just watched the Raimi trilogy
and then you just watched the Amazing Spider-Man duology,
is that what that's considered?
I don't know, whatever.
And then you watch Homecoming.
Duo, duo, just.
Is it not considered a duology if it's a completed two?
It's not completed.
Oh, well, you know what I mean.
Cut out.
They call it the alien quadrilogy
before the next one was made.
So like a point being that the film functions
and the origin quote unquote of his philosophy
is it stands if you have no idea what Spider-Man is
or who Uncle Ben is or how any of it relates to anything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry, what you're saying that Peter Parker's perspective
stands irrelevant of what happened with Uncle Ben
in the MCU.
It stands if you're aware of the third-party information
or not.
The reason I believe they wrote it that way
was because it would work as both.
So if you're coming in with all of that awareness
and then you go,
oh, you probably learned that from Uncle Ben.
I'm like, who's Uncle Ben?
Didn't you just, I figured you just learned it.
And you'd be like, oh, well, yeah.
Yeah, no, I guess that works.
Well, see, I'm not sure.
See, I'm not sure about that
because the core theme of Spider-Man,
which is very well established is, you know,
the great power comes great responsibility
and is basically the spirit of the character right then.
So if you have events where he's starting to betray that,
well, that would bring into question,
did the Uncle Ben event happen?
And knowing if it did were to help inform your perspective
on his actions later on.
And he's mostly, like he's mostly consistent in homecoming,
but it's in far from home that I have the issue with,
where he starts to stray
from the core Peter Parker character.
And so, yeah, that's where the absence of the Ben,
you know, Uncle Ben thing starts to have question marks.
And that's where it's a bit more problematic,
even though I hate using that.
Well, they've corrupted that damn word,
but sometimes it's useful.
I mean, my view of it is that when it comes to Ben,
it's if you'd never heard of Spider-Man
and you watched homecoming or you watched Civil War,
you wouldn't know who Ben was.
But the story still works.
It works whether or not you're aware of Ben Parker's existence.
But I mean, on the point of like somebody dying
and you don't necessarily fully absorb their lesson,
I think that's entirely possible.
Yeah, I do think like,
because Molly, you started this entire kind of explanation
with the groundwork that if you're just looking at this
as its own single thing,
irrespective of anything that's gone before.
And honestly, I'm not sure you can do that.
Like, of course you can,
but I'm saying that the fact is there is external material
that defines who this character is.
I'm saying theoretical for now.
We'll get to whether or not you should.
I'm just saying theoretical for now.
So if it were to stand on its own,
if the other content never existed at all,
what we're given is a kid with what is essentially
quite an unrefined base for philosophy.
Because if you told me, for example,
Molly, you should live by the mantra.
If there's something you could do
to stop a bad thing from happening,
you should be doing it.
Otherwise you've basically caused it.
I'll be like, mate, by that logic,
I'm causing a lot of bad things to happen.
Like, if I was to expend every last piece of energy I have
in favor of making other things better for other people,
then it would be pretty difficult to pull that off,
obviously, but what I'm doing right now
would probably make me Satan by that logic.
So him saying it?
I don't know.
Even that, I think there's arguments to oppose it
because what about expending sufficient enough energy
in helping other people out there?
Right, but this is the thing.
The philosophy alone is relatively vague.
This kind of my point is that it's very admirable.
It's very altruistic, but it's almost childish.
And that's what he has with civil war.
Now, Homecoming I see as a story
where it's like refining it
because he spends the whole film
going headfirst into saving people,
but then he finds that there are several scenarios
in which he shouldn't be going.
They shouldn't be getting involved.
He's ruining things by approaching them.
And so I'd say by the end of the film,
he's figured out that it's about when and where to,
not just about why.
Right, and that's your view on Homecoming specifically.
Yeah, and I went on that sort of small rant
in the previous podcast about all of the sort of parts
to the film, and I think you're trying to support
that journey that he's more concerned
with making sure he's a quote unquote hero he's labeled.
He's doing everything an Avenger is supposed to do
instead of thinking about like the specifics
of each context of how he enters each of the fights.
And of course, Tony Stark's gonna have a problem with that
because his whole lesson in previous films
has been about not being reckless with the power of death.
And ultimately I would actually argue
that it all comes under the umbrella
of with great power comes great,
but without saying it at any point.
Yeah, and that's a solid, on top of it,
it is a solid character arc.
It's consistent, it falls together,
and that's why it works.
That's why I liked it.
Doesn't mean that there are points of criticism
that people can put against it.
And I'd like to perhaps try and argue some of those points
to see if they're more valid
than many people have regarded.
So that's something we might be able to do.
About Homecoming?
Yeah, about Homecoming specifically.
Yeah, go for it.
Well, first I wanna kind of go back
on the premise of this whole thing
about looking at it in its own kind of self-contained thing.
And so to begin this kind of logical thing,
I'll take an example to an extreme
and see what you guys think, okay?
So what movie could you say is better?
Or is there even a point to try and determine
if one is better?
Pride and Prejudice, one of the,
looking at, say, one of the better film adaptations
or The Return of the Jedi?
I haven't seen Pride and Prejudice soon.
I haven't seen it either, unfortunately.
Wow, you uncultured squad.
I think, I think, no, don't leave.
I think my mum would have shown me it
when I was really young,
but other than that, they forced it in school at one point.
I don't know.
I guess my point is,
these are both incredible, incredible stories.
In terms of the characterization, the plots,
the execution, they go right on so many levels.
So how, like, comparing them against one another
is so difficult because they're so different.
They're catering to a different audience.
The whole purpose behind each story
is so, so drastically different.
So you can't really say
one is necessarily better than the other,
but you can say this.
Pride and Prejudice is an absolute terrible Star Wars film.
And Star Wars is a horrible Pride and Prejudice,
Jane Austen Regency romance.
And so it's a matter of perspective.
And I mentioned this to you, Mola,
when we're having a chat before,
that you're only able to determine,
you're only really able to understand something
or even categorize it with a specific point of reference.
Mount Everest is huge compared to, say, me,
but if you compare it to the size of the Earth,
it suddenly becomes puny, it's small.
And so the point of reference with these films
that we're looking at is Batman,
you're expecting, first and foremost, a superhero movie,
but also a Batman movie.
If you went into a Batman movie to watch a Batman movie
and you got The Flash or Superman,
it fails at one of the primary reasons for its existence,
to be a Batman movie.
And so with that point of reference,
you would say this movie is bad in this specific context.
My response to that would be,
okay, so I go to the movies,
the screen says I'm gonna go see Spider-Man.
I go in and I see a movie that isn't that,
and it's really good.
Like, it's just, it's well-written, well-shot.
All I could say is that was good,
but it wasn't what I wanted to see.
And because of that, you could say it is bad
because it wasn't what it was supposed to be.
By the very name of the title,
it sets up a point of reference, an expectation of what-
If I could offer a different counter,
you said that I wouldn't be able to call,
or at least I wouldn't concede that you can't call
that Return of the Jedi or Project Prejudice
are better always, I need to see it.
And then I'd try and figure out as best to talk about
how consistent the plot lines or the character arcs
or the world-building is,
all of the basic elements of drawing up a story.
What you can say, and this is not in relevance
to which one is the better Star Wars film,
you can say that A New Hope has tighter writing
than Return of the Jedi by far.
I actually personally prefer Return of the Jedi,
but I think that A New Hope is actually the better film,
or at least stronger film, tighter film.
There's a lot of categories to go over, but good lord.
That's a subject for a whole lot of the stream.
I would wanna try and figure out the validity of that.
You could be right, but I know which one I like more,
and I have this naive assumption,
which could be very short-sighted of me,
that I tend to like things because they're better.
Yeah, no, that's totally fair, that's totally fair.
I, like many people have gone over it,
but that opening like half hour of Return of the Jedi,
where it's very difficult to nail down
just what the hell they were trying to achieve
and how many better decisions
all of the characters can make.
And when you try and figure it out from like in post,
once you've seen the whole film,
you're like, what were they trying to do?
What was the goal?
And you look at the end of Empire,
and you're like, how did they go from there to, okay.
And you try and ignore it.
Then there's a lot to it,
while I feel like the other two,
from a basic perspective is actually a lot,
they're a lot more consistently written,
and that's probably how I would go about trying to pull
which one is superior in terms of a piece of writing.
What about like,
and so I guess this is another kind of thing
to try and explore,
because your standard as I've come to be familiar with
is mostly like consistency, you know,
logical connections between character motivations, plot,
and other things like that.
Don't you think that there are other elements outside of that
that can be objectively quantified
as to the quality of something?
Yeah, it depends what standard you're using, I suppose.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And so-
You can be objective to a standard,
but I think that essentially consistency and progression
is intrinsically tied to storytelling.
There are other things
that are intrinsically tied to storytelling.
Possibly, yes.
But there is no story without a progression of events,
because that's what it is, right?
That is absolutely true.
So, like, I've been thinking about this.
And I've been wondering, you know,
what are some other elements
that could be considered pretty, you know,
connected to the quality of it?
Character likability.
I don't know if I agree with that,
because, I mean, I think a good example,
a lot of people like Rey, I don't,
so I couldn't argue unlikability,
because a lot of people like her.
No, yeah, see, I know that a lot of this
does become subjective,
but I do feel, even having said that,
that there are certain general standards
that make a character more likable.
What if I'm not going for likable?
What if I'm going for unlikable?
What if I'm going for unlikable at the start
and likable at the end?
Like Joffrey.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay, okay, so maybe I should replace likable
with effective, perhaps?
I guess effective is a different thing altogether.
It is, but a character that serves the plot
in such an effective way can become likable
because they are so effective in the plot, like Joffrey.
Do you mean that necessary or that they?
Well, let's look at Joffrey, right?
Joffrey is a brilliant character, therefore I like him.
I don't like him as a person,
but as a character that needs to serve
the role of a story is brilliant, therefore I like him.
Right, okay, what if somebody said,
yeah, he is brilliant, but I hate him.
And that was the point that they were going for.
I hate him, but that's why it works.
Well, me for example,
in my short time watching Game of Thrones,
I found Joffrey to be really forced
in terms of how much evil he was, character.
He seemed like they hammered it into your head.
You're supposed to hate him.
Look how bad he is.
Oh, look, he's just beating them whores for no reason.
Oh, it's like to that for me,
it felt like he was really forced.
And I just, I was like,
ah, they just want me to hate him, man, I don't know.
Right, right, the goal is more transparent, right?
So what you've raised there, no, this is good.
What you've raised there is a good, solid argument
that goes against the overall quality of a character
that then can make a movie less likable, less good.
Like if you're just trying to make,
judge something for its quality.
And so my point isn't really about Joffrey
because I actually haven't seen Game of Thrones,
but I'm using secondhand information.
My point is, can the quality of the character
be intrinsically tied to the overall quality of the movie?
And I think, yes.
Well, yeah, but then you need a framework for judging.
Well, exactly, exactly, exactly.
And so the framework is, I think is always gonna change
depending on the expectation
and what the character is supposed to fulfill in the plot.
Who's expectations though?
No, no, no, no, like, for instance, the hero, okay?
As soon as you have a protagonist,
there are certain expectations that are intrinsically tied
to what a protagonist should do for a plot.
You can subvert them, like for, you know, yeah.
Like if you're going for an idyllic aspirational hero
and stuff, there are certain beats
that help achieve that better than others.
And so it will become a very different thing
dependent on, I guess, the different character type.
If it's a villain, there are certain things
you would hope to want the villain to.
You could have a likable villain, you know, like Loki,
or you could have a despised villain
that you really want people to hate,
like Joffrey and stuff.
And if they're achieving what they were meant to achieve
in the plot or what the character is supposed to be,
and you can understand that through context fairly easily,
I feel, you can then judge objectively
if that character has achieved it.
Well, meant to is an interesting one
because what the writer meant to do was just crap.
So they achieved their goal,
but it was a bad idea, you know?
Yeah, so I'm referring to general standards in storytelling.
And so, like, again, protagonist,
there are certain things even separate to what the author wants.
The greater kind of audience that's going to be reading this
is going to have certain established expectations
just based on general understanding of story.
Yeah, but general means it's not universal.
No, no, but there are percentages
that become fairly solid.
I mean, like, I think about quantum mechanics
as off-brandom as that is.
It's impossible to know the exact state of a subatomic particle
until you observe it.
And we're not observed.
You cannot predict where it will appear,
but what you can do is know the likelihood
of where it will appear.
Yeah, and that becomes, and so the percentage,
like, the percentage becomes the objective standard.
And so if I was to convey this to literature now
that an effective hero, you could say these qualities
generally make good, effective heroes, OK?
Now, if you're going to break from that standard,
I'm not saying it's impossible to make an effective hero,
but generally breaking from that standard makes less effective.
And if you were to, like, I know we can't do this,
but if you were to judge every single hero
and every single story and list these qualities
and stuff like that, I do feel the heroes that are worse, OK,
on many different levels will be those that have broken
from that standard more often than not.
That's the percentage.
What are the standard ones that you would say?
Like, what are the standard traits?
Well, again, it always depends on exactly the type of character
you're supposed to be.
What I think is going to happen here is he's
going to ask you for one for, let's say, hero.
If you provide a standard sort of attribute for a hero,
then you'll give you an example of a hero that
doesn't have that attribute, and then you'll say,
it's not a complete rule.
It's just a general rule.
Yeah, exactly.
But it'll bring him back to the whole like.
You can point out exceptions.
Yeah, and I already said that.
You can have exceptions, but my point
is that generally when you have a look at most of them,
you will find a general standard of certain character traits
that have been successful with the hero archetype.
For instance, Far From Home is going to be a great example,
because in that specific movie and the portrayal of Peter,
I feel that they made certain deviations
from the type of character Spider-Man
has already been established to be.
And you can say that it was bad because it changed
from what was already established
to who the Spider-Man character is.
So it's bad in one instance.
And irrespective of what has gone before
and what has been established as Spider-Man,
it was also bad because these character traits
do not reflect positively on him
as a character making him less unlikable
for the type of hero it's established for him to be.
Then the counter argument would be
the whole relatability argument
to which his responses and his actions
are extremely relatable.
And then somebody could just say,
well, from their relatability framework.
And relatability is another one
of these sort of generally accepted rules.
Someone could just say, well, he's relatable
so he's good.
And this is exactly what, yeah, you're exactly right.
And this is why I brought up the pride and prejudice
and return to the Jedi thing.
Because that entirely depends on the point of reference
of where you're judging it from.
And so the question is, what is more important
for a hero character to be relatable
or for him to be heroic?
Now, Spider-Man is already relatable in my opinion.
And if they wanna make it more relatable
at the cost of his, you know,
idyllic noble character of what Spider-Man is meant to be,
I would say that was a poor decision
and resulted in a wise character as a result.
Well, we can go into the specifics of why
when we start to explore Far From Home.
Sorry, I got a crying baby.
I should have also prefaced this everyone
that my kids are just getting up ready for school and stuff.
So there might be some background noise.
Yeah, that kid is far from happy.
Yeah, he's like, well, he's hungry.
So my point is, cause there are always specifics
and we will go into the specifics of Spider-Man
because this is kind of my foundation
for my views on what happens.
But let's like, let's go back to my broader argument
about can the quality of the character
being in a thing that is intrinsically tied
to the quality of the film.
And I feel, yes.
I mean, the quality of character can be tied
to film, I think has generally been tied
to the whole consistency argument.
But I guess my thing is it's, so.
But I guess my counter.
Yeah.
My counter is that you can have
a very consistently written character, right?
That does not fit in the story at all
or does not fulfill the purpose he was meant
to fulfill in that story.
And also can just be wholly unlikable.
You are not in, there is no,
you were getting far less entertainment value
out of watching, reading, or whatever,
being present in a scene with this character
than if they were not.
And so I would say that this means character
is a very intrinsically tied thing
to the quality of the story,
irrespective of the idea of internal consistency.
Well, I guess my thing is is,
so you're talking about the hero archetype
and sort of the qualities of a hero archetype,
but I can just think of so many examples of heroes
that completely sort of block that archetype,
whom ever might be something that you're gonna like.
There are exceptions to the standard,
but does that mean the standard isn't weird?
Yeah, because if you can look at a plot hole
and say, oh, well, the story still works,
then like it's literally no longer a plot hole
because it's an unbreachable standard.
Yeah, it can't be breached,
which is why it can be assessed objectively
in the same way as a lot of science.
Hold on, I still have...
This is how early I'm awake.
My normal alarm just went off.
Oh, my God.
But yeah, the idea would be that
when we try to set objective standards, these aren't...
I mean, you look at science,
the idea is to set an unbreachable standard,
and the goal is always to work
towards an unbreachable standard.
It's like when you brought up the quantum thing,
all I'd say is I'm sure the scientists are quite keen
on getting to a point where they can be correct
100% of the time with the metrics that they have.
Well, on that note,
if we had infinite processing capacity,
I think it would be possible to break down every detail,
like no matter how small,
of characterization, of consistency as well,
of all the elements that make a story good,
and you could put it on an objective scale,
but because there are so many factors to try and consider
that I think it's impossible.
I wanted to hear Fringy answer this question for you,
Shad, right?
So Fringy, can you have an objectively consistent character
to this sense of perfection,
absolutely no inconsistencies whatsoever,
and they still theoretically be liked by nobody?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because what if you wrote a story where it was only,
that was the only possible outcome, you know,
where it's like, yeah, they're consistent,
but nobody likes them.
So that would make the story,
that would make a bad story, wouldn't it?
Well, no, because if everyone on planet Earth
disliked them, that does not mean they are unlikable,
other than they weren't liked by anyone on Earth.
Who knows, another baby's born tomorrow,
and they like the character,
and be like, oh, well, there you go.
But see, now, see, like when you're determining
if something is good, okay,
like this comes into their idea of what creates value.
Gold is only valuable because there's a majority
of people who actually say it's valuable.
And this is the same with quality.
And so I would say that when it comes to like
story and character, and maybe there are ways
to argue against this one,
what determines a story to be good, you know,
I do think majority consensus plays a part in it,
but I know the count of this is that a lot of people
like the last Jedi.
Well, so, and you might be right before you go on,
you might be right about that, theoretically,
even if you were the point where you've just highlighted
for us is that if ever we said,
well, most people don't like this character,
so they're bad, and people could be like,
well, most people like a split on the last Jedi,
so how can you say that story's bad?
And we'd be stuck in like the land
of never making conclusions.
Well, what if we're not stuck?
Because if people do then come with the counter
that there is a lot of people who like it,
you can then start to apply other intrinsically
tied elements to story to really try and find out
if it's good or bad, consistency being a great point
of reference to determine quality.
And so perhaps, you know, even in those instances
where the majority consensus fails,
that's where you can rely on other things,
but it perhaps might not say that,
like majority consensus is completely invalid,
because I do feel that like the general qualities
that determine if a character is good or not are reliable,
there are ways that you can break free and stuff.
But if you had a movie where all the characters
were nearly universally disliked by most people
with the very few exceptions of one or two,
you could say quite objectively, this is a horrible film.
I wouldn't say that.
Well, the thing is, you'd have to.
No, I would have to clarify.
I'd be like, this film is despised.
And then someone's like, is it poorly written?
And if it, let's say by any standard I've constructed
with consistency within my channel
and the way that I've gone over it
with like Fringy, Rags, Wolf, et cetera,
I would, by all accounts, have to be like, well, no.
And this has happened before, by the way.
Homecoming is the perfect example.
I was told by everybody the Homecoming was godawful.
I watched it and I was like, okay, it's not though.
And then people would be like, what the hell?
And that's kind of what all this started.
I was like, well, if I'm to remain consistent
with the standards we've all been discussing
over the past 40-something EFAPs,
like, yeah, the characters are very consistent.
The plot line is all based on cause and effect.
There are a few conveniences I will hand you,
but no more that should ever judge it
to the point where it's become like an abysmal failure.
And then I'm like, why is it that people hate it?
And I'm like, oh, there's a lot of people
mentioning this whole comic argument.
What's this about?
And I've looked into it and I was like, oh,
motivation, very clear on why people hate it.
And I think, well, I'm sorry, I think.
All right, well, on the majority thing, it's like,
couldn't that be sort of broken down
into macro and micro scales,
at which point you would start to question,
I guess, like, you know, where the cutoff is and why.
So, i.e. the majority of science fiction fans
don't like this character in a science fiction story,
but the majority of regular people do enjoy it.
It's like, well, then which one do we use
as the reference for the majority consensus?
Or like people in a country generally like it.
This is actually a great point of argument
because like, I would like to discuss this a bit further,
just from my own understanding as well.
Maybe you guys can help me out because Twilight, okay.
Good example of a book that there is a lot of people
who hate that book, okay.
But there are far more people who love it, okay.
And it's success that like in my mind has to, you know,
is connected to something very significant.
People will say it's poorly written.
The characterization is unrealistic and things like that.
Yet it is so loved still and so successful.
What has it done?
Because in my mind, if it is that successful,
it has to have done something good.
Now, the thing that's killing me about this argument
is that the same argument could be made to the last Jedi.
Well, the same argument could be made to transform us.
Yeah, I'm dying inside.
But the thing is like, well, the same argument
can be made with many of the Fast and Furious movies.
I love a lot of the Fast and Furious movies
knowing that so much of it is bad,
but yet there's so much about it I like.
And if I'm liking something in it, in my opinion,
I feel you would have to be able to break it down
and find certain objective elements in it
that you could say, this is why people like it.
And this is why people like it.
If I grab onto that and then repeat it in something else,
I should be able to make something else
that is also likable.
And if it's a consistent kind of element
that you can identify and then reproduce,
that makes it objective in my mind.
What I was gonna highlight is
our processes are clearly slightly different.
When I find that someone likes something,
but it's inconsistently written,
I'm like, I'm curious what it is that made them like it.
So say, for example, there's a piece of politics
in the media that agrees with them.
And I'm like, oh, that makes sense.
Or the person was cast for like,
let's just say it was a really likable actor at the time.
Like, oh, they like it because it's him.
Or it's just a sequel of a franchise that's really popular.
I'm like, oh, they just like it because it's popular.
Or Transformers is like, oh, they just like the CGI,
the explosions.
As long as I can find a motivation, I'm fine with it.
I can move on.
But one thing I thought you'd be interested
in asking me by now,
I think you'd eventually get there
because of like most people do.
A couple people have already,
but it's like, if you've identified objectively good
as completely irrelevant to making people enjoy it,
then what the hell is the point of it?
And my take is always that it's like the baseline
so that we can actually discuss the mechanics effectively.
Whether or not someone likes that,
if I was to, you know, like explaining Peter's journey
in Homecoming and someone's sitting there the whole time,
like that's not Peter though.
I'd be like, oh, I'm not really talking about that.
I'm just talking about this journey,
which is really recognizable or relatable
or a setup and paid off
or transmits in a very sensical way
with lots of little like highs and lows.
And so once you highlight all of these things
as actually existing, like being there,
someone might be watching the video and going,
huh, that's pretty cool, actually.
I didn't notice that.
Because I don't know about you guys,
but I've watched reviews
where they've actually made me hate films
or love films in further watching.
Because it's stuff you don't notice
or stuff that you did notice and ignore
and you recognize your own biases.
Like that's part of what I think is really fascinating
about it when you actually figure out a reason
for why you were blocked in terms of liking
or disliking it, which has happened to me as well.
I'll be like, oh, fuck, I actually like that.
Because like, I always tell people like,
I love that about Robert, it's terrible,
but it's all just full of stego,
being happy as hell.
And I love the shit out of that actor.
Like I don't really care that that's my bias.
I can accept it's poorly written.
Yeah, but even so, my opinion, I guess is,
because I agree, I absolutely agree
with the idea of consistency being intrinsically tied
to if something is good completely.
My personal take on top of that
is that I feel it's too narrow.
I do feel that there are other elements
that are intrinsically tied to a story
that reflect on its quality, characterization.
Very important one.
And so going back to that example of,
you could have a perfectly consistent film,
but if all the characters are unlikable, okay,
and they're doing horrible things,
and so as a result, that film would just be horrible.
And you'd be thinking, you know,
now when you say, what is the point?
Well, maybe that's when you again
could bring up a new standard
that might be able to try and redeem it in some way.
I think that makes sense.
Like we've talked about it previously,
but the idea that some guys write in a story
and he's like, what should I have my hero do?
And it's like, have him be proactive.
And some of the guys like,
you don't have to have him be proactive.
And it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know, but people typically like proactive heroes.
Exactly, generally speaking, a proactive hero.
Which I don't think anyone here
would have disagreed with you on that.
But typically people like proactive heroes.
The problem is that typically isn't quite enough.
Again, I guess it goes back to the percentage thing
is that I even feel that typically
is it sets a general standard that is objective.
I think typically sets a good guideline,
but not a standard.
It's like, it's kind of like all the writing rules,
like three act structure.
Like the three act structure
isn't objectively superior to other structures.
It just generally works well,
which is why you're recommended to do it.
And it's the same with like proactive characters
or active versus passive characters,
or things of that nature, or traits,
or it's the advice you see a lot
when people talk about writing.
It's like, yeah, that's decent advice.
It'll probably do well for you,
but it's not an objective standard
because I could just come along and say,
well, I like passive characters.
No, so I-
And then you'd have to argue the point there.
My reply to that is that,
I do feel it's an objective standard,
but because it's objective,
if you understand the benefits of an active protagonist
and how they benefit the plot,
how they engage the read and stuff like that,
you can then know when it's appropriate
to break that standard
because you can then understand it so well
and say, in this instance,
it is better for the service of the narrative
for him to be not proactive in this instance.
And so again,
this is your understanding very objective elements
about characterization
and how you're working them into a plot
to make a better story overall.
Well, my response to that would be,
you can't break,
you can't do plot holes and have it be better
than if it didn't have plot holes.
Plot holes are just flaws.
They are inarguable flaws.
Whereas like, what if I write a story-
Let me jump on the plot hole thing.
I mean, no, there are ways to make plot holes.
You can put a plot hole in a movie
and make the movie better by having that plot hole in it.
It was actually to bolster Shad, funnily enough.
Well, I'm on both of your teams with this one.
Technically speaking,
it's not all bad to have plot holes.
If you have something like Spaceballs
where something impossible happens
and is played for laughs,
however, it is a flaw in the storytelling
designed to evoke laughter.
So it's still objectively a plot hole.
But see, there's a thing,
the new standard then,
like the quality, you're gauging the quality of the film
based on how much it makes you laugh.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, no, and by it achieving that purpose,
it is then more successful, better film as a result,
and it is better because it had that plot hole in it.
The point that's being made though
is that the plot hole is still a plot hole.
It's something that can be identified clearly
and you can present the evidence
to explain why it's a plot hole.
Someone can't then turn around and just say,
well, I prefer, like, I like it.
And then it means the plot hole doesn't exist.
Whereas when it comes to characters,
you can have a passive character
and then it's like, well, this character is passive,
so they're bad.
And then someone says, well, I like them.
And it's like, well, then where do you go from there?
But see, the counter to this is then,
wouldn't the counter to your argument about plot holes
only take one person somewhere to say,
I like that the plot hole is in it?
Yeah, but the plot hole still exists, though.
No, no, but see, if you're saying the objective,
you know, what am I trying to say?
So a plot hole is bad, objectively,
is what you're trying to say.
But if you're then saying the purpose
or value that it has in a story is determined
by how people react to it.
What if somebody came into space balls
and thought that or at least not that they thought,
they're like, I want this story to make sense
from beginning to end.
And then they watch it.
It wouldn't achieve that purpose for them
if they were taking it totally seriously
because the plot hole still exists.
Yeah, I'm just trying to understand,
you know, because you might have a point here
or I might have just lost my train of thought.
Well, the point that I'm kind of trying to get onto,
plot holes are a very clearly identifiable issue
because it's a break in logic.
And logic is a standard that's more easily defined
and can be more rigidly adhered to.
So like, OK, so we have a story, it's like,
John woke up, John walked to the shop,
he spontaneously combust and turned into a pile of ash.
John got a sausage roll from the shelf,
walked home and ate it.
And you know what, you made a comedy.
And it's funny, right?
But the logic of the story is broken
because it doesn't make sense.
It doesn't make sense.
The interesting addendum to that then
is Fringy's highlighted there are no stakes as well
because now anything is possible.
So we have no idea how to understand
like so dramas suffer miserably from plot holes.
Yeah, so I agree with you here.
So now I'm trying to apply your argument
to the broader context of what we're discussing
about being able to judge something
for its quality on objective standards.
I just want to highlight, right?
Because this is the thing, I'm actually,
this is really good right now.
It's just going to, I'm not sure how to steer this
in terms of the purpose of the eFap as a whole.
And I was going to say,
We're getting pretty deep, aren't we?
Yeah, well, we're literally talking about the fundamentals
of writing, which is amazing.
It's just that like, fuck, I did promise
to actually do some other things today.
So we're kind of led there or like unavoidably
because my criticisms from far from to,
on far from home rely on these very elements
we're talking about, right?
Yeah, that's fine.
I mean, my view, at least on your perspective
is the things that you're saying about,
you know, active versus passive
and the traits that people generally like
are good things to keep in mind
when it comes to expedient writing
in the sense that it's, you know,
it's easier to approach a story
even if in a straightforward way
based on what people like and don't like.
And for the record, we've made a lot more progress
already than last time.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So just to kind of, I think I know a better way
to try and say, I could not say universally
that an active protagonist is always universally better
or only generally better on the standard,
but the way that then I would apply it
is that I would apply it specifically
on a case-by-case basis to determine
if this specific character in this specific story
is worse for being passive or active.
And so as soon as you apply it specifically,
I feel that objective standard can come back
and can be relied upon to determine if something is good,
which would then also mean in my mind
if characterization can be an intrinsically tied element
to a story to determine if it's good,
separate to just consistency of the plot.
And I mean, it's not just consistency
because I know how important that is,
but I still feel that there are other separate elements
to that that can be very objectively, you know,
you can look at very objectively
to determine if it's good or not.
I'd say that arguments, I guess,
I do agree that using a framework is better
than tailoring the framework to, you know,
on a case-by-case basis,
the issue only comes in the disagreements in the framework.
Well, the disagreements that one would have
in the framework of like, a good example would be,
we saw, it'll be in one of the videos we're watching
where someone said that Spider-Man Homecoming
is a comedy first and a superhero slash action movie second.
Like, how do you then, that changes the way
that you would approach the framework?
You're absolutely right.
And this is a good point we're bringing up.
So I think you could say and defend this point fairly strongly
that Spider-Man Homecoming and Far From Home
should be a Spider-Man film first and foremost,
which then sets up the,
you could say the most important point of reference
to judge the film by, could you not?
Well, yeah, but couldn't I just then say,
well, this is my book and it's called Google Blocks
and you need to judge it first and foremost
as a Google Blocks book.
And then that would probably make the book better
because I made it.
You know what I mean?
No, you actually do have a point there
because even with what I said,
so this is me reiterating your point in my own words,
is that saying it's a Spider-Man film
does not make it immune to review on other standards,
like consistency, characterization and stuff.
You're absolutely right there, so I agree with you.
But it doesn't mean the standard,
the point of reference you're judging it by
for being a Spider-Man film is disregarded.
It's a very important standard.
Okay, well, actually, I saw someone in the chat
bring up something that's interesting.
They said, what is a Spider-Man film?
And I think that's a good point we can get to.
We can get to that, yes.
That's absolutely right.
This is important, but.
So like, the one thing I really, really, really wanna do
is talk about what Homecoming does well
in terms of writing Irrelevant of Spider-Man.
And if, say, for example, I said,
Shad, do you not think this is pretty good?
And then you say, well, it changes
depending on if we look at blah, blah, blah.
And I'd be like, that may very well be perfectly valid,
but are you able to forgo it just for a bit?
Okay, yeah, best example
that I think we can bring up in this regard
is the scene where Spider-Man's getting crushed by the pillar.
And I think this is also a strong point of contention
that people have because people don't like it
because he's crying and comes across as weak.
And then some people really like it
because it shows him as relatable, vulnerable,
struggling to overcome a thing and so on and so forth.
And so what we're seeing here in this instance
are two very different point of views, right?
That are actually based on two separate standards of,
you know, the standard you're judging it by
to determine if it's good or not.
And so this is, so my own take on it,
but before I go on my take,
did you guys wanna voice your own views on that scene?
And is this one of the things
that you're trying to point towards?
I was more going toward,
so the broad strokes of what they're achieving
in their whole story as opposed to a particular moment
whether or not you did the right sort of,
I don't mind talking about that in a bit,
but again, broadly, like,
so going for like his journey as a character,
did you, because you heard the last Ephaps debate,
what did you think about me trying to explain his journey
and understanding why it's important
that he's clear on his motivation?
Oh yeah, there's a reason why I give Homecoming
an eight out of 10.
Like I liked it or seven to eight.
Yeah, I liked it absolutely.
There are some really good elements to the story overall.
I do understand the criticism, certain criticism,
not every, but certain criticisms people have with it
and where it's coming from
and that their standard that they're generally applying
is the first or foremost,
the established character of who Spider-Man is,
and that's something we will go into.
The person in the chat was very right to bring it up
because that's a really interesting argument
I have personally, or I find it interesting.
And so I understand the counter arguments.
If, even having said that,
if you were to take away the point of reference
of the pre-established Peter Parker character
and try and look at certain things,
there are certain things that I can see
why people didn't enjoy it as much.
And there are certain things that I found a bit annoying,
but with what they were trying to achieve,
I also found satisfyingly enough,
almost to enough of a level to offset my annoyance
that I could say my annoyance doesn't really matter then,
if that makes sense.
There are people in the audience
who desperately wanna hear you
and whoever else talk about why he's unfaithful
and why that affects the film,
but there are also people out there
really wanna hear me slash other people here
talk about what the film is doing well
because maybe they don't know the arguments
and also they may feel that they're not being talked about.
So like, maybe if I shift focus, like-
Yeah, but generally, nearly everything that you say
is working well in the film,
I'll probably agree with you.
Okay, well, that'll be great,
because people are desperate for me
to actually talk about this
and I'm like, I just struggle
to actually find opportunities to jab in why.
So Vulture, why is he a good villain?
I'm literally, this is a free for all,
go for it, anybody wanna jump in?
I will start.
Yeah, go ahead.
Okay, so yeah, people have been getting mad at me
for not saying anything,
but I honestly was just kind of listening to that
and just kind of taking it in, so don't mind me,
but I like Vulture because he starts off
as like a blue collar worker who did get screwed over
and over the course of several eight years,
he comes to learn of this technology
and he's a sympathetic villain in the sense
because he's got a family to look after
and he was able to care for them.
He still loves his family very, very much.
He does it for them, but in the end,
he's also, he's bad enough to the point
where Peter does need to stop him
and the unfortunate reality is he's also a wedge
in between he and the girl.
So he was also a big call to action for Peter
who was ready to throw away the whole Spider-Man thing
until he showed up and was forced to act.
And so he's an interesting villain.
He's not just the type that's just gonna sit there
and wring his hands together, twist his mustache
and I just love being rich.
I mean, that's part of it,
but he was doing it for a cause in the end
and it was one that you can understand as like,
if you ever have kids or you ever think about having kids,
you think like, you know, what wouldn't you do for them?
Yeah, I agree completely.
Like it's almost, he is evil for what you could consider
a noble purpose, which is to support his family and stuff.
And even when you see him like kill someone
for the first time, wasn't that in defense of his family
because Shocker was threatening to reveal everything
and that's why he killed him and took that step
to being a murderer and stuff.
I mean, well, if you didn't mean to kill him.
Yeah, he said, oh, shoot, well, I want to grab it.
But the fact that he was comfortable with it
implies that one, he's probably not unfamiliar
with killing people and two,
that he's actually okay with that result,
meaning that he was probably pretty close to it regardless.
And it also sets up, yeah.
And unlike the road to a villain,
like even, you know, in the real world
is a step-by-step thing where it's one compromise
and then because that compromise has happened,
it's easy to make that same thing,
but that also makes the next compromise
that little bit easier.
How do you kill a frog?
You don't chuck him in a boiling thing.
You heat it up and let him slowly cook to death.
And that's the same thing.
And you see that with this character as well.
He doesn't jump to being a mustache twirling villain.
You see the step-by-step progression of his compromises
and the Shocker thing is a perfect example
where even if you didn't mean to kill him outright,
he certainly was okay with it
and that certainly makes killing someone later
a lot easier as well.
So these are all really good characterization elements,
story elements that just work very consistently.
It kind of reminds me of Walter White.
Yeah.
Absolutely, yeah.
I was gonna say, Fringy, go ahead before
I'll do a bunch of things as well.
Oh, so it's a lot of things
because I think he's the best one in the MCU,
at least for the films.
Vulture is a character whose fate is very linked
to events that happen in the MCU
because Homecoming and Far From Home
are the most well-integrated MCU movies,
at least in terms of taking advantage
of the world that exists.
He's a character who was created by the Avengers.
He's a character who continues to exist
because of the Avengers and what's happening.
And that all sort of informs his design
in terms of being a vulture
and then his sort of under the radar,
kind of a, those are more of the subtle,
I guess, things that kind of elevate it.
But the fundamental thing is that he's a character
who has motivations that are very clear
and understandable and reinforced by the world
to the point that it makes it kind of difficult
to root against him because he, you know,
his logic is justified in a way that is clear
and understandable, the fact that he got basically screwed
over by the Avengers and then the twist as well.
So giving him that personal link to Peter
was able to set up probably what I would say
is the really most important part of the story
in terms of Peter's growth,
where he has to then make the decision to be a hero,
even at the cost of his own life,
like at the cost of his own personal life.
He's a great counterbalance to Peter
because when he says, you know, like you and me
are very similar, it's like, which true,
they are very similar.
They're just normal guys in the world,
that's changed and has kind of left him behind
and then he had to change to catch up with it.
I probably didn't explain it super clearly.
I like him a lot though.
Well, yeah, this is the thing is you don't write a video
for it so you don't get to redraft, but like the,
so as Frini said, created by the Avengers,
that's pretty amazing to have in the film,
like direct results, but this isn't the kind of retcon
we get with Captain Marvel where it doesn't make any sense
at all in clashes with everything we know.
We're told from the get go, he is Vulture,
a guy who's gonna pick up the scraps
after every single event the Avengers created,
which throughout the film, I think there's like four
or five instances with a casually name,
like they say something like a sub Ultron arm
is a potential weapon to sell to this guy
and it's like sub Ultron arm, like so Sokovia.
So he's been stealing shit from Sokovia
when damage control takes stuff,
they drive it all the way into damage controls
cooperative base with Tony Stark
and on the way he'll pounce on their trucks,
he'll use the technology to just steal a small amount,
just a small amount, he's like siphoning them
every time just scraps and every time he does,
they repurpose it, they sell it, he moves on.
So the idea is like, why haven't we seen him
up to this point?
It's like, well, that's his whole deal,
he's trying to not be found,
he makes it very clear in the movie,
he's like, don't bring down damage control
or the fucking Avengers, like Jesus Christ,
don't attract them because we'll be over in seconds
and that's part of again, what makes him
so much more fascinating to me as a villain
compared to the others who are like,
these so stupid knuckle-headed enemies
that like go face-first into, like Iron Man 2,
Whiplash, who's like, I'ma take out Iron Man,
gets killed and then he comes back
in the end of the film with a super suit
and he gets killed and you're like, okay.
While Vulture's like smart about the whole thing,
he's like, I don't wanna fight Iron Man, we'll lose.
It's just like, huh, that's interesting.
But yeah, the fact that they make it clear
from the get-go, he's got a family
and that's part of his motivation.
The fact that if you watch it on a second time through,
you'll notice he's, the sympathy for Spider-Man
will come the second that the Washington Monument
thing is done.
His threat to Peter's life is serious
because we know he's killed people
and yet he spares him when he's holding him
in the final fight with the jet drop
and when he spares him in the prison,
he doesn't give up his name
and I think it's tied intrinsically
to the fact that he's not a bad guy.
He's defeated Peter, Peter can't stop him
at the end of the film and so it's like,
do I wanna kill this kid who protects people
and save my daughter?
It's like, no, he's not crazy.
Which by the way, how many fucking villains
in the MCU are just insane?
Yeah, there's a lot of them
and that's the thing that really kind of,
that's why Vulture's really good.
He's not insane at all.
He's completely level.
It's a consistent element as well.
Even at the end of the film,
he protects Peter by not revealing his identity.
Exactly.
I think it's a good example
because you often like to cite Iron Monger as an example.
A villain who was good up until he just lost his mind.
If you guys remember, Naya Mad1,
everything's working just fine in terms of his position.
Then he finds out that S.H.I.E.L.D. are coming
to see his suit and so he just gets inside it,
cackles and starts killing everyone.
You're like, what are you?
You're like a business guy.
Like, why, what?
Then there's the mad villain
who in narrative goes insane.
And then you draw all the way back to him being like,
this is what I'm willing to do for my family, Pete.
Like, I will kill you and everyone you love.
And it's, oh, that car scene, man.
I don't even wanna-
Oh, that's great.
Oh my God, that was so good.
That made you, ugh.
Ugh.
So yeah, Vulture is an extremely strong part
of Homecoming, I guess, was the point there.
Yeah.
I feel like he's a really good guy.
Yeah.
I feel like any other point's almost pale now
because there's so much good to say about him, but.
That one actually goes so far as to say
that he is better than Mysterio in my-
I didn't like Mysterio, so I worked like-
I really like Mysterio, but I do agree with it.
We can't, we gotta wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
So-
I like Mysterio, but not as much as Vulture.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
I guess what I'm trying to think of, like,
so the way the film progresses then,
cause I'm trying to think of other sort of bigger broad,
like I said, broad strokes about-
Of course, effect is a good thing to talk about in-
Yeah, so like a lot of things seem to happen
as a result of things that we're already aware of,
and then there's a domino effect.
There's not much in terms of like, that happened,
and then this happened.
You know, like, well, how do they connect?
It's that happened because this happened,
and then that happened because this happened,
that sort of thing.
It's the South Park riding rule of butts and therefores.
This happened, therefore this happened,
but this happened, therefore this happens.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, so, and drawing that Peter's motivation is to,
not necessarily, cause like,
this is a part that people can get confused on, right?
So if his motivation fundamentally is to do good,
then why is it that he's almost thrill-seeking,
well, not thrill-seeking, that's the wrong word.
What would you call it when you're gunning
for appreciation slash trying to reach a label?
Selfishness?
I don't know if that's the right word,
cause he's still-
Other ones say overconfidence.
I'm thinking overambitious.
I think that works.
I'm trying to think of what word I would do.
I'm just trying to be a little bit more expedient,
but yeah, that's what he's doing in the film,
is he's trying to be the guy that he sees the Avengers as.
This was a supporting evidence for the film,
for his obsession with that.
Not only the news reports,
not only the comment he has while he's in the warehouse,
where he says, what if people see me without my suit
and they expect someone like Tony Stark?
The fact that he's doing impressions of the Avengers,
he keeps identifying himself as an Avenger to Ned,
and Ned is like, you're an Avenger?
We already know that Tony's already said no,
at the beginning of the film, he's not.
So why is he telling them that?
And it's like, oh, well, it's the label in there.
It's the prestige, and so-
I will point out, this is actually a point of criticism
that some people take with the film.
Oh, I'm gonna be arguing for a consistent journey,
not that it's not anything else.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, his motivations being that he just wants,
well, just not, but mostly wants to be an Avenger and stuff.
So this is something we can talk about a bit later,
because I don't want to derail what we thought.
But this is, just to point out,
this is something that people have taken issue with,
and I see why.
It's because it's not like the comics,
because I have a counter to that.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Like, I think that is a bit of a straw man to their position,
because there is some validity
as to why they would be comparing,
and that's something we can discuss.
No, but what I mean is, if they're referencing the comics,
I have an example from the comics
that counts as that.
Yeah, but, all right, so that's something to explain.
Sorry, we'll all keep going.
We will definitely get there.
But yeah, he, it gets so bad, right,
that once he's nailed the monument part,
he argues that capturing Vulture is his ticket
to the Avengers, and so, once Iron Man like,
flat-out refuses all of it,
and expresses like immense disappointment,
and he says, like, you want to do better?
Peter sees it as he's lost his chance to be an Avenger,
and therefore, a hero,
and then, by the end of the film,
it's like, no, being an Avenger
has nothing to do with being a hero.
You are a hero.
You're gonna choose to go after Vulture
because it's the right thing to do,
not because you're gonna get the label of Avenger,
and so that happens, and then the end of the film
is basically confirmation, where he's like,
oh yeah, I've got what I want,
but I don't really care anymore.
That's not what he wants.
And then, you know, I've highlighted before
people see it as a contradiction in Infinity War
that he accepts the whole Avenger mantle,
but again, it's not, it's something that's thrust upon him
because he's actually putting himself in massive danger
to protect the world.
He's an Avenger by definition.
It doesn't matter if he's earned it
via saving enough people or beating enough bad guys.
And I think that if people watch that scene closely,
you get the fact that the Russos really do care,
because they really do.
He gets told he's an Avenger.
He smiles, like, almost giddily,
because he's gotten what he wants,
but then he, like, reassures himself
that it's a duty thing, and, like, stays stern,
and then moves on.
I'm trying to highlight that he's come a long way since his,
and this is the thing he might be like,
oh, why is there something he had to learn?
And it's like, ah, well, he's really young,
and this is probably the beginning of his journey.
But it's, we will get into that,
because I feel like this might be what Shad might wanna talk
about, but it's consistent, is currently my argument.
That's all, okay?
So it's all the pieces are there,
the progression is there, and it completes
once he's had his severe moments of being brought down.
Second act style, he's brought to his low point.
So any thoughts, basically?
No, no, I agree with that.
I agree.
In terms of, when you're looking at consistency,
you see a very, very clear, you know,
causal chain of events towards the end.
And the end, the strongest part about it
is that the end result does result in a stronger character.
And so you see what he had to overcome to get to,
but that does kind of lead into some of the thoughts
about the characterization
and why people might have an issue with it and things.
But again, I don't wanna derail.
Was there anything, any of the other broader strokes
you wanted to point out that you liked about the film?
I like that the film has another journey simultaneously,
being the recognition of what it's gonna mean
to have Peter Parker and Spider-Man in his life.
So like the first third-ish of the film,
he's sacrificing Peter Parker for Spider-Man,
almost to the point where he doesn't want Peter anymore.
He just wants to identify as the hero.
So he's like, school is suffering miserably.
He leaves like five different classes.
He's not really talking to his friends.
His social capital's like plummeting.
And he says, there's a line where he says school is boring
when someone's asking if he's staying in it.
It's like the sandwich shop guy, I think.
And he says that school's not gonna be a thing.
It's not gonna be important once he becomes an Avenger.
Like Peter's getting squeezed out.
And then obviously the transition in the film
is that Spider-Man gets completely removed
and it's full Peter.
And he's having fun again.
He's like, you know, Bill's the Death Star with Ned.
He's being reliable with the friends.
He's in school.
He's learning, he's doing a lot.
It's just like, yeah, everything's going great.
Then at the end of the film, it's like almost,
you could argue a choice between Peter and Spider-Man,
but then I would say that the part
we mentioned earlier, the building falling on him thing,
is where he's incorporating them both.
It's like Peter is the motivation to be, he's who he is.
It's the guy who says you help people when they're in need
and you do it responsibly.
Spider-Man is the vehicle that allows him to do so.
So he needs them both.
Or at least that's a message I would have gone from the film.
Irrelevant of what I may or may not know
about Spider-Man previously to this.
I just mean as like a relative hero's journey, if you will.
And yeah, those two put together is him at the end.
Fighting Vulture is another thing that I sort of see
as a journey in the film, but what does everyone think?
I wanted to comment on the Peter Parker
that they've got going on now,
because Tom Holland does a really great job
both as portraying Peter Parker himself and Spider-Man
to the degree of like, I believe that he's a nerd.
It's like the problem we have
with the infamous Andrew Garfield
is that he's got way too much social capital
as Peter Parker.
He's like handsome as shit.
He's state boards.
He does sports.
He's got a girlfriend already
and he's got a ton of friends and he's a popular kid.
It's like, right.
And you want me to believe that he can put together
all kinds of crazy gadgets and stuff.
And he's a genius.
Like, no, sorry.
Just a little too well-rounded for me.
But Tom Holland does a far better job
of portraying a nerd than previous iterations
that we've seen before.
Tobey Maguire did a pretty good job as Peter Parker,
but when he became Spider-Man,
he kind of like, he shifted his personality
like pretty dramatically.
Like, oh, now he's equipping?
Okay.
He wasn't doing that before.
Not to any like extreme sense.
I don't know.
I didn't notice many quips in the Raimi Spider-Mans.
Um.
You're out, Gobby.
Out of your mind.
Yeah, they weren't great, bro.
I...
They were like, that was such a bad one.
I mean, compared to some of the quips,
Spider-Man has been at a rip out
in many comics and cartoons I've watched.
Like, my reaction to every Spider-Man,
except the Andrew Garfield,
where they're like,
I get your criticism of the Andrew Garfield and I agree.
The thing that I liked about the Andrew Garfield Spider-Man
was that when he was Spider-Man,
he was a smart aleck.
And he would, you know, make jokes and tease.
And he came closest to capturing the Spider-Man biting wit
that, you know, that is established,
this character is supposed to have.
And I've found it lacking in the,
especially the Raimi ones.
And even in the Tom Holland ones,
they say the MCU ones.
Like, you think it's lacking in the steam
where they're at bank, you know?
So, what they do with the MCU one
is he's more geeky and nerdy.
It's like, whoa, man, you've got a robot arm.
And I really saw this old movie once and all this stuff.
And so, he's very geeky in that sense of Spider-Man,
but is not throwing out the jokes.
What, he's not throwing out the jokes.
But he, I think, throws the big door back in his head.
Yeah, like, the bank scene,
he's referencing the bank scene,
which has a lot of, like he, I think he says,
like Hulk, good to meet you in person.
I thought you'd be more handsome.
Yeah.
When he's referencing the robbers
who are wearing the Avengers pants.
Oh yeah, yeah, so yeah, that scene,
yeah, that was a good Spider-Man scene in terms of his wit.
I agree completely.
What about the fairy?
Well, sorry.
Yeah, is it a fairy?
Yes, a fairy.
Because people were saying that it was British of me
to refer to it as a fairy.
And I was like, I'm pretty sure it is a fairy.
It is a fairy.
It's a boat, you guys.
I don't know what you're talking about.
So what he's like,
he hits the new shocker,
and then he's like,
he says something like,
wow, the other guy was way better with that.
I mean, dude, you're just disappointing.
Like, I don't know.
I'm shocked.
He said, honestly, I'm shocked.
Okay, okay, I give that credit to you.
Maybe I'm just not, maybe my memory is just,
you know, I got Alzheimer's or something.
You're not the only one who feels that way.
I just don't know if it's something else
that's making that feeling come up,
or if it's a matter of...
The quips aren't good enough.
Like, it might've been far from home.
Like, how many quips were in there?
Far from home had less quips in the action scenes.
That might be painting my perspective a bit.
Yeah, maybe.
There was a less switch
because he was frustrated with the whole scenario.
He's trying really hard to go on this vacation,
and he keeps being forced into being spider-man.
Also, wait, we're gonna go
over far from home for sure.
I just want to say,
I don't want to spend forever on homecoming now.
So I'm very appreciative of what I've been able to say,
because I don't talk too much.
It's gonna annoy people.
But one thing we've got to do to be fair,
criticisms of homecoming.
Anybody and anyone can drag as many out as possible.
So just find some.
Am I the only one who's gonna bring me up?
Shad, same rules, though, same rules.
Any of the ones in terms of consistency?
Why is the boat still afloat well in half?
That is, I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, that might be, like, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know if it would,
if you had the two halves falling,
the webs holding them together
and then pushed back together fully by robots
that are actually, for all we know, thrusting both.
With how open it was, it would have sunk like a stone.
Yeah.
That's fair enough.
That's fair enough.
But it was taking on water, too.
Like the cars down below were getting flooded and everything.
Oh, now it's above water now?
Okay.
Yeah, no, the water should not be gone once it seals up.
The one thing I will say, though,
is that the criticism for me would then be like,
these people should probably be dead.
And it's like, well, they're surrounded by ferries.
So even if it was going underwater,
like they would have been rescued.
There's like 20 ferries at other ships or whatever.
Yeah, the water didn't go as far as to go
into the crew quarters or anything like that.
I don't know.
It was flooding the cars.
Real life accounts don't tend to generally agree.
There was that like ship liner that, you know,
it only tilted on its side or something in,
it was near Italy or Europe or something.
Yeah, no, I know what you talked about.
Yeah, and a lot of people still died, even with like, you know.
Admittedly, that was a cruise ship
with like 4,000 people on it.
Whereas this is a ferry that I imagine.
Yeah, and as Dean just said,
like the car part was underwater.
Everyone was in like the midsection.
There was a couple of people in the car part.
So we can assume there should have been a few deaths, maybe.
Yep.
All right.
What you're saying is Spider-Man's a murderer.
Yes, he is.
Disgusting murderer.
What else?
Well, see, my criticisms aren't on the consistency side.
That's why I do.
I just want to make sure we go over it at least.
Look, if I really think about it,
it's been too long since I've seen it.
You have the advantage on me, sir,
because I would need to watch it again.
And I don't know, maybe if I watch it again,
I'll be able to point something out, but that-
There are a couple of complaints about convenience.
Like he's running the security program
and he gets the door open on the 270 something try
when there could be like potential.
I don't know if they say there's like potential thousands
or not, but there's a lot of potential outcomes
and he got it on thingy.
So by probability, he literally gets a better result
than he could have, but it's still not what I would call
a convenient one, you know?
Then there's other conveniences like that,
him and Ned put together were able to hack Iron Man's suit.
A lot of it.
Some people think it's a plot hole that they can do that.
Other people don't see it as a convenience.
I see it as a minor convenience
because there's plenty of information supporting
that they would be able to do that.
What information just out of interest?
So Peter's a teen genius who loves technology
and he's in, I believe, robotics lab
is one of the lessons he takes.
And then he's comboed up.
I don't know.
If I was to be devil's advocate here,
I'd say I'm not sure that equates
to being able to hack something.
That just means he's, you know, good at building things,
he's got good mechanical skills,
not necessarily a computer hacking.
And I'm not criticizing you here, Shad,
but you didn't let me finish.
Sorry, I'm referencing the funny part.
I love you, it's okay.
So he was tinkering with the suit.
The hacker, if you will, was Ned, the one on the computer.
He was the one that was doing all of that stuff
while Peter was just accessing the suit with us.
He had a couple of tools.
We've seen Ned do it later as well
when Ned backdoors the phone network.
And the suggestion is that together,
it's feasible that they be able to do that.
And then you just have to call upon real life situations
where high school students have hacked government,
like high value programs and stuff.
Oh, good parry, old chap.
But okay, so I mean, again,
the counter to that is like Tony Stark's tech
and, you know, digital protections,
you would expect to be much better
than the average government.
Tony Stark hacks the government pretty easily
in the first Avengers one.
And so again, I could see people saying
at Ned's ability to hack Stark's tech
to be a bit of a stretch.
I settled for minor convenience.
I don't know if Fringy would settle for that.
I guess it's a little bit convenient,
but it's not a plot hole
because we see that he's pretty good at doing that
several times in the film.
And they're both smart kids.
And I don't know, there is precedent.
There is precedent for people being able to,
like, okay, yeah, Tony Stark's really good,
but somebody would figure out a way to get in.
Somebody always finds a way.
There was a guy on my Discord going over.
Rocket raccoon.
Oh, yeah, maybe, but yeah.
There was a guy on my Discord trying to explain it
from like a hacker's perspective.
Apparently he had like a lot of experience in the area.
He was like, it's absolutely more than reasonable,
even with the foundation that it's a fictional genius.
Just because like everything.
That's appeal to authority.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm not saying I'm right,
because I was sharing this anecdote
because I found it interesting.
He was saying like every,
all code works on fundamental levels
and that they're all crackable.
You just need the right, you know, like accessing,
you know, to say like a bigger, smarter, better person
made it, therefore it's unhackable
or even harder to hack isn't necessarily true.
That's what he was talking about.
But I wouldn't, I don't know if you guys know anything
about hacking because I don't know.
Well, then there we go.
And he describes things, but you know,
then he starts talking really big words
and then I get lost.
Well, my opinion,
I do think it's actually a larger contrivance,
but because it has so,
is it such a small thing in the overall plot and stuff.
And because not too much is hanging on the fact
that he has access to the suit.
And there are a lot of other ways
that they could have written it to make it.
I wouldn't necessarily concede that
because this activating the suit gives him Karen,
Karen identifies the Chitauri core as a bomb
and him knowing that gets him to the monument in time
to save his friends from death.
Yeah.
Do you find that it was a bomb without Karen though?
Potentially.
That's the thing you'd have to change
the writing at that point.
It's getting hotter.
Oh, I mean, it's not,
you wouldn't have to change too much.
No, I'm suggesting that we're dealing
with what we've got, right?
So, but necessarily he may have found out
through just hanging out with the,
well, the thing is we don't even necessarily know
that they all would have died if he hadn't turned up there.
Half of them get saved before he gets the web on them.
We don't, like we assume they died.
I don't know.
Either way, yeah, that's a flaw.
Undeniably, it's just to what degree
is sort of the minutia there.
Another one people feel is that Tony's security
was too low on his transport ship at the end of the film,
considering the world he lives in.
Oh, that, okay.
The ship in the finale?
Yeah, the one that has his like gear on it and stuff.
Was he even doing anything on a software end of things?
I thought he was like, just, you know,
physically getting in there and cutting his.
I know that I'm the tinkerer.
There's like a decoy drone that they swap.
So the decoy drone gets sent.
And from the perspective of Happy,
the decoy drone is the plane going on course.
Whereas when he gets in the ship,
he reroutes the plane to go where he needs it to go.
And there's also like, this has been like an ongoing,
like the tech, he's been like having this ongoing idea
for this thing for a while now.
So it's easy to tell that he's had this idea
for such a long time that he's like,
he put a lot of enthusiasm
into making it work really, really well.
And yeah, so the pros.
Well, it was invisible, wasn't it?
Right, so I'll just to make sure,
cause like this comes from a lot of these,
these arguments are coming from one dude,
which he knows who he is if he's listening to this.
Yes, I appreciate you for bringing these arguments up
because my God, I was getting tired of my comics.
So thank you, person.
You know who you are.
The argument was in favor of the event happening,
you've got, Tony's been doing this for a while.
So we assume it's just something that's functionally working
having these jets doing this.
Cause it's not the only shipment.
They say it's the last one.
Secondly, he's carrying gear that is considerably
under dated compared to what he's probably using now.
They say old Hulkbuster armor, a prototype shield
and Thor's magic belt, which-
Can I just say, I'm really annoyed.
I didn't get to see Thor's magic belt or the shield.
I know, right?
That sounded really cool.
Like, where are they?
Thor's belt actually comes up in the comics
in certain areas.
And so I was hoping that that could be brought in, but yeah.
The, so another argument is the ship does,
the ship, the jet does have defenses.
It's invisible.
It's got strong armor and it's got a guidance system
while being monitored on radar and visually from happy.
So it's like, it's not undefended
and it's being attacked by someone who can faith
through walls as a guy who's like tinkering
with alien technology for eight years,
according to the film, but it's more like five years.
Is it in continuity for me?
Is it five?
Yeah, about five years.
So there's a lot of reasoning
for why it would occur that way.
But their argument is like,
why the hell isn't there a guard on board?
Why isn't there more defenses significantly compared
to what we're getting,
considering how much you should be defensive of this gear?
So what do you guys reckon?
It's hard to argue the point
because it's taking assumptions based
on my character's perspective
on the value of this and the stuff.
I mean, I know there's a lot of instances
where if you think that no one knows
that this thing is happening,
you could disregard having defenses at all
because the defense is the fact
that it's a covert who on earth could find out
about it in the first place kind of thing.
And look, I see their point,
but I do think it's hard to substantiate it
with any level of validity.
Well, not to mention it's like,
if you're gonna put stealth on them,
why would you fill it full of guns
and turrets and shit to take people out as well?
My argument as well was-
It's probably gonna be a stealth type jet,
you're gonna try-
Why stop it?
Like, so if they said one body guard,
I'd be like, wouldn't you just be arguing
there should be two?
And if there were two, it's like,
why not four?
And if it was four, why not eight?
How many is too many?
No, no, I'm not sure that's entirely-
No, I'm not saying that's what they'd be doing.
I'm saying that's what we should be asking.
If we're gonna ask why isn't there X, it's like-
Because one guard is obviously better than none.
Yeah, but two's better than one.
Well, the thing is-
Yeah, yeah, but that doesn't discount the fact
that one is better than none.
And so-
The thing is, if you have a guy
who can get on board the plane,
one guy is probably not good enough.
You know, like at that point,
you might as well cut-
My point is that it's at that point like,
why wouldn't you have an Iron Man set of drones
surrounding the ship with invisible gear or whatever
to really make sure it's okay?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, cost.
I mean, like, even if they can-
That doesn't really apply.
No, no, no, two's better than one.
That doesn't discount the fact that one is better than none.
It wouldn't have hurt anything for them to have a guard.
I get that.
I don't think it would have hurt them
to have a lot of things in addition,
but I don't think that the situation really called for it.
That's separate to the point.
It doesn't discount the utility of at least having one.
Yeah, but all more.
Yeah, still doesn't discount like
the utility of having one.
That's the point.
I mean, I always say one is-
I'm just saying because you could have had two
doesn't mean you shouldn't have one.
No, that's not-
Yeah, but that's my point is that,
yeah, maybe we should have one,
but why would we stop at one?
How many should there be?
Cost, effectiveness, just-
It's Tony Stark.
Even enough peace of mind.
Give him a-
Right, right, right, right.
That's important.
Peace of mind.
So why would we not assume that he has peace of mind
where it currently stands?
Well, again, that goes back to what I was saying before.
You can't, you wouldn't be able to substantiate this point
because it's taking too many assumptions
based on what the characters felt about the situation.
We don't know.
All right then.
And then other than that, I think,
I don't know.
I think that you'd start to get really
sort of to my new details after those.
And they're pretty like,
they could be just small in the first place, so.
But again, this is only focusing on-
Yeah, no, I was gonna say-
It's a narrow kind of perspective of consistency.
I think we're good on that.
So I officially let you free, Chad.
What would you like to talk about
in terms of other criticisms
than the framework I was providing?
Oh, dear.
Gonna take a lot of effort.
Cause, all right, all right.
So let me try, let me try, okay.
Now, having said this, this is me, again,
just trying to share why I feel
certain other criticisms can be valid.
Not necessarily that I agree with them,
but I get where they're coming from.
All right.
Okay, so I guess I'll start with this one.
I might not be the strongest one.
But it does go back into the concept of
why the very virtue of this being entitled Spider-Man.
It's a Spider-Man film.
And then how do you establish what a Spider-Man film is?
Well, I think that's not too difficult
because Spider-Man is a very distinct character type.
But it does lead us into a more broader argument
about how much adaptation can a character receive before
it isn't true to that character anymore.
And as a result, you can say it is bad.
Because I'm not sure you can just say,
separate those two entirely.
If the purpose of the film is to be an adaptation
and it fails at that,
it does fail at one of the very reasons
of this film existing.
And so I think it's a fair criticism then to say,
this isn't a good Batman movie, Spider-Man movie,
or whatever.
And so the question is how much variation
is allowed before we can then say it's bad.
I think one of the first things are,
if it's a contradiction on what the character's meant to be,
I think that's a fairly valid one.
And an example I'll give, right?
I'm not sure if you guys like bolognese,
spaghetti bolognese,
but is there a food that you particularly love?
We could just use this as an example though,
spaghetti bolognese.
Pizza.
Pizza.
See, no, pizza won't work because pizza's too broad.
Spaghetti bolognese works because it's a very specific dish.
Okay.
Could go with one.
How about this one?
How about this one?
Because I think I know where you're taking this.
So let's say sushi and you make sushi,
you make it with, instead of rice,
you use pasta and you wrap it up in a tortilla.
Yeah.
And then you don't add fish.
You're getting exactly what I'm saying.
And I don't, sorry, you have spaghetti bolognese.
How many changes can you make to it
before it's not spaghetti bolognese anymore?
It might look exactly like it,
but if the taste is different,
someone who is expecting spaghetti bolognese
could rightly say this is-
I imagine it would be the absence of spaghetti
Well, that could be one of the core things as well.
Like, because you could even make it out of icing sugar
and make it look exactly like normal spaghetti bolognese,
but as soon as you taste it,
it's so different to what you're expecting.
It might look like it, but because it's different,
and again, this comes back into the point of reference
that I was talking about,
the point of reference that you're judging it by
is this good spaghetti, not is it tasty.
Because, you know, it could be tasty as anything,
but it's not spaghetti bolognese.
Ergo, this is crap spaghetti.
But it's, so this is what I mean.
Like how much variance do we allow?
And now if we apply it to Spider-Man,
there is a core to Spider-Man.
Like that defines who he is.
And it is the great power comes great responsibility,
but there are other tangential,
fairly important elements to this character type
as to what he has been established.
Has there been poor, you know, adaptations,
even in the comics that betray that?
Absolutely.
But that doesn't, sorry, yeah.
I really don't want to take you off your rails,
but that's just one curious question
in the case of the bolognese.
If you'd presented like the most amazing shepherd's pie
and I ate it and I was like,
this was terrible spaghetti bolognese.
And the way is like, what?
Okay, and then I go, but it was really good food,
like really good food.
And he's like, oh, well, you know, all right.
Translated meaning,
Homecoming's a really good superhero movie,
maybe not a good Spider-Man movie.
Ah, but see, this is important though,
because it does depend on what it is supposed to be again,
but also the expectation as well.
If you were just after a tasty meal that satisfied you,
it was good.
But if you were really in the mood for spaghetti bolognese,
well, like that's what you wanted.
And you got something different, even if it was good,
even if it was brilliant,
it didn't satisfy your desire to have good bolognese.
I was about to say, wouldn't the food still be good
as in like well-made and well-constructed
in every standard of a shepherd's pie,
but it would not.
But it's bad spaghetti.
But you didn't enjoy it,
because it's not what you wanted.
It's not what you wanted, so it would be subjective.
Because what if I said, well, that is what I wanted.
I wanted you to surprise me.
So it's good.
It's like getting a Godzilla movie,
because there's like no Godzilla.
Would you be willing to call it spaghetti though?
Well, the thing is, I think, right, so let's-
Hang on, even the subjective thing,
I'm not sure that's actually subjective.
If you are legitimately in the mood for spaghetti bolognese
and you don't get it, like, how is that a subjective thing?
What do you want?
You didn't like it.
No, no, no, objectively, it is bad spaghetti.
That's the point.
Well, the thing is right.
Like, so bad spag-
I guess if we get to specifics, right?
So what is-
I love how we're talking about
figure difference-
Yeah, no.
This is peaky fap right now.
The thing is, when it comes to defining Spider-Man,
what if I just came along and said,
well, I think spectacular Spider-Man is Spider-Man,
and that's what it should have been.
So it's a bad, spectacular Spider-Man adaption.
Okay, so the answer to that-
Or a bad Amazing Fantasy 15 adaption,
or a bad Spider-Man 726 adaption,
you know what I mean?
Like, what are we using as the reference?
Yeah, the answer to that is that the overall consensus
would define what it is,
and an individual wouldn't get to break that definition.
And so the person who makes, you know,
icing sugar spaghetti wouldn't be able to say,
this is true spaghetti,
because everyone who looks and understands what spaghetti is,
like, no, it's not.
You can call it what you want.
It's not spaghetti.
Well, I mean, the difference would be
that spaghetti has a very clearly defined,
like, spaghetti is defined, what it is.
Yes, that's why I chose it.
And, so-
Yeah, it's fine.
Not really, because-
Oh, no, yeah, that ada-
Yes, he does.
No, because somebody could disagree with you and say,
well, why am I referencing this point of reference?
Then we can argue the specifics here.
And I hate appeals to authority and the stuff,
but, like, because, you know, I've read the comic books,
love the comic books, oh, sorry,
I love the cartoons as well and everything like that.
Looking at all these different, like,
you could try and say some of the different interpretations
and stuff like that,
there is a very, very clear defined character type
that is far more common-
One thing.
That establishes what Spider-Man is
throughout all of these mediums.
By definition, that's subject to change then.
Well, yes, this is the thing,
because I do agree that it's good to try and experiment,
like trying a different spice and spaghetti and stuff.
And so this is the question,
how much variation is allowed
before it doesn't become spaghetti?
And you said something interesting in the last,
it might've been the last stream, Mauler,
where the Batman idea came up,
can Batman not kill and stuff?
And you said you felt it would be more important
to stay true to the spirit of Batman,
but that's very significant, what you said there.
I don't think I would've said that.
I wrote it down, I wrote this down.
When you said it, I was like, okay, that's interesting.
Are you sure I said that, I don't believe that?
You said, isn't it more important
that Batman's values remain intact?
That was your quote.
Yeah, but that's relative.
So if in his continuity,
his values might involve killing people.
I don't recall Mauler saying that he couldn't kill people.
Yeah, so I don't use the word spirit
because spirit is too undefined to me.
Yeah, no, the Batman thing is interesting
because if you look at who Batman is,
he's not necessarily defined by that he doesn't kill.
He's defined by his war on crime,
his desire to make sure what happened to him in the past
doesn't happen to anyone else.
And this is where you can challenge the not killing.
Yeah, but then there are other people who say that
the thing is you're challenging
the an established element of Batman's character
based on something that is more true to his character.
And so you are able to argue that a change in this instance
makes him more like what Batman is defined as.
And the whole change is based on making an accurate Batman.
This is the argument because if Batman's desire
is to stop people going through what he did,
well, a logical chain of events then is that
if he killed the Joker,
he would have saved a lot more lives
if he did that the first time than saving his life
and lock him away and letting him break free and stuff.
And so there's an argument that can be had there
that a change can make a better Batman
because it's based on what Batman is, this is my point.
And so, and the point is,
is that Batman has a very clearly defined character.
I don't agree that Batman, like I don't,
and this is coming from someone who's read
a decent number of Batman comics,
because you can just always-
I'm interested, tell me why.
Well, Dark Knight Returns is probably a great example.
A lot of people cite that as the seminal Batman story,
the best one, and he's not the same Batman.
He does kill people.
He's a lot more hardened and jaded and cynical and brutal.
And then you have other people come along and say-
Can I just interject here?
Because what you just said there
actually works in favor of my argument.
I don't think it does.
No, no, no, because what are you defining as Batman is?
Like an argument can be made that him killing, okay,
can serve the purpose of Batman better than not killing.
It's not undermining the defined character-
Well, it depends because some people have the view
that Batman's fundamental conflict
is that he won't kill people,
even if it's the thing that he probably ought to do
if he were to be expedient.
You know, like the question of whether or not he should-
Yeah, you can argue that in an objective way
by simply saying, why doesn't he kill?
Because as soon as you say, why doesn't he kill,
you will come back to that more true element
of his character.
And then you can say, well, just on the logic-
Well, you know, because what if you, if the-
Sorry, you're cutting out there, mate.
Oh, if the fundamental philosophy of Batman
is I need to stop bad things from happening to people,
the killing argument is definitely a valid-
Yeah, but then the killing argument
becomes way more easy to justify.
You kill them and then that's the end.
They can't do anything anymore.
And yet that's not, and yet that isn't,
like that isn't necessarily the fun.
What the fundamental is of Batman is both variable
because people have different views on it anyway
but also because when you've got 80 years of material
to pull from, it's going to be different.
30s and 40s and 50s Batman is different from 80s Batman,
which is different from current Batman,
which is different from all-star Batman,
which is, you know what I mean?
I think you get the TV series,
like the TV series is, so I get what you're saying, okay.
So the point that I'm trying to reach here is that,
is there a change that's too much to the point
where you would say, this isn't Batman?
For instance, if Batman becomes an axe murderer
instead of a vigilante trying to, you know,
fight for justice, like he legitimately
starts killing innocent babies.
Well, I guess, all right, yeah, go ahead.
What if he doesn't kill but they completely changed
why he doesn't kill?
Does he stop being Batman then?
Maybe, that's an interesting proposition to explore.
Like the motivations behind a character
are very important to define who this character is.
And changing those motivations
can undermine that completely,
which is actually my issue with Far From Home.
Because Spider-Man, going back to Spider-Man now,
his motivations, who he is, is more defined
and more clear than even Batman, in my opinion.
He is a very well-established character
and for good reason, why?
Because it's great, his character type is just awesome.
There's a reason why so many people love Spider-Man,
why I loved him, everything.
And this isn't, I don't feel, nearly as subjective
because these, their makeup, their character types,
motivations that constructed this character type
are so great, and I was talking to them all
about this before.
The character type of Spider-Man
is a type of aspirational hero example figure
where he is more noble than the average person.
And that is established in very many iterations
which has more solidified who Spider-Man is.
Now, am I open to some exploration?
I honestly am.
This is why I was a bit more open to Far From Home
than other people, because Far From Home is more vulnerable.
He acts more like a kid.
He is, people say it's more relatable.
I'm not necessarily, I don't necessarily think
that's an improvement per se.
It's an interesting, different experience
that I'm glad I experienced,
seeing a Spider-Man that gave into remorse and fear
and he was crying under the thing.
But that was different to the established character.
And I don't necessarily think it's better.
It was interesting.
I was open to seeing it.
And so this is like an example of a difference,
a variation that, yeah, I'm open to seeing.
I'm not sure if it directly contradicts this character type
which is why I'm still willing to say, okay, yeah,
maybe I'm willing to call Spider-Man still.
Let's see where they go with it.
And then Far From Home happened.
And I was like, oh, okay.
So in the early issues of Spider-Man,
there was a part where Spider-Man wanted to make money.
So he wanted to join the Fantastic Four.
So he infiltrated the Baxter Building.
He fought the Fantastic Four to show off how cool he was.
And then he was bummed out when they told him
that he wouldn't get paid for it.
Is that, that's in the comics.
Yeah.
That doesn't sound like a Spider-Man thing to do.
Yeah, you know, this thing, you're absolutely right.
And I mentioned that there are examples in the comics
where the established character type is, you know,
contradicted and that's bad, okay?
Is that bad though?
No, no, no, it wasn't, it was like this would come
into the even inconsistency argument.
What if somebody came along and said-
If the character is established to put other people's needs
before his own and he has these motivations,
stuff like that.
And then he does something that outwardly contradicts it.
That's bad writing.
Well, here's the thing that's-
You could say it's a plot hole.
Yeah, but this is early in the comics.
So couldn't somebody say it is a contradiction
that Spider-Man would put other people before himself
because as was demonstrated earlier, he wants to make money
and he will make money by fighting the Fantastic Four
and be showing himself off.
You know what I mean?
And that came first.
So the contradiction comes afterwards about him being,
you see what I mean?
Like, I can just do this.
Like for instance, if the MCU type of Spider-Man
became the only Spider-Man adaptation that was ever made
to the point where there is more content
of the MCU Spider-Man than the previous established one,
that would then over way the previous one.
And this would be what Spider-Man is defined
by the fact that there is a larger amount of content
to find this character is.
And so clearly the level, the amount of stories
and everything trying to establish what this character is
has great influence onto how we define who the character is.
And so small little tangents where he contradicts this
doesn't break what the established character is
and is this way because it's good.
Now, like very related to this, right?
Is when people stray from this character type, okay?
I'm open to them doing it, like with our homecoming.
But because the established character is so damn good,
there is a much higher chance in my opinion
that they'll actually make an inferior Spider-Man,
an inferior version of Spider-Man for specific reasons
like character likability, even consistency and stuff.
Like you've mentioned, the thing you brought up
for me is an inconsistency that contradicts, you know,
the character type and stuff.
And so it's not to say that they can't try an experiment,
but the fact that the, what we already have is so good,
it doesn't make me wonder why,
but there's a chance you could improve on it.
Yeah, yeah, no, I, sorry, I was just,
I'm just reading the chat cause I'm like,
the point that I was making was that where, right.
So you go earlier and Spider-Man acts in a certain way
and yeah, he was trying to get money for me,
but it's not very responsible to fight a bunch of heroes
to prove how cool you are so that you can get money.
You know, that's not particularly noble,
fighting a bunch of heroes to show you how cool you are.
And yeah, you're getting it for money
so that you can help someone out,
but it's still not like a hundred percent altruistic,
but the point that was trying to be made there was,
okay, so you look at what comes earlier
and Spider-Man is to find a certain way
and it's probably a little bit different to what it is now.
Why would, like the frame of reference that's used to say,
well, this is what Spider-Man is,
changes depending on what section of the history
of the character you're looking at.
No, not the section.
No, no, not the section, the overall consensus,
the general majority that the character type
has been defined as.
Well then, I think at that point,
you've got to lose the argument.
No, no, I think your argument is,
I think your argument like, let me just say,
I think your argument is like saying,
because spaghetti was made differently in one instance
and it didn't taste like spaghetti
means that you can't define spaghetti
to taste a certain way.
And I'd say, no, of course not,
because spaghetti has a defined type, same with Spider-Man,
and even exceptions to when it wasn't true to that
doesn't break the standard.
So if the argument is,
well, the more popular view of what he is
is what he finds as,
then that's an argument that the comics are gonna lose
because more people watch films than comics.
No, because-
Yeah, they do.
No, no, no, no,
because I wasn't talking about the amount of people
watching and deciding who he is
based on how much a group of people like it.
I've been defining his character
by how he has been portrayed more largely
in the specific iterations the character has arisen,
comic books, cartoons, even other movies.
So theoretically,
if Tom Holland made a thousand films of his version,
would he then be faithful
because he'd be the majority representation?
Probably, yeah.
I said that before.
Like-
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Because that's true.
If that's true, why does it matter, dude?
Ah, why does it matter?
Because I think even having said
that there is one different to another,
you can try and judge one to be objectively better than-
No, I just-
What I'm referring to is that it's like,
it's literally based on like a ticked box.
It's not even like something that meaningful anymore.
I'm saying this is why it matters.
The previously established Spider-Man, in my opinion,
is a far superior character
than a special level far from home run specific.
That's a fair argument, but it's a different argument.
No, no, it's related
because it reinforces why you would want to stay true
to the comic book version because it's so damn good.
Wait, but-
And I can give it like,
and we'll get to there, but we'll get there
as to the specific arguments
why the established Spider-Man character is better
and comes off better and would have been better
than say other attempted variations from that.
Yeah, and I think that's, so say, for example,
we watched the new, I don't know, whatever film,
it's just like an action film, espionage spy thing.
I could be like, man, this main character,
like he's just worse than like Ethan Hunt
or even James Bond or just name a spy espionage thing.
I get where you're going.
Well, I could make the argument though.
And I think that you guys would be able to hear it.
The problem is the fact that this is named Spider-Man.
It creates an instant point of reference to judge it by.
If this was a new, a different superhero movie
that there was no, like things generally are able
to become seen as good if it's they're standalone
and they don't have something where,
like especially something that's really good
to be compared against.
For instance, you could eat spaghetti
and it could be really good and you think it's really good.
And you could say, this is the best spaghetti
I have ever had.
But that opinion is going to change instantly
when you taste a version of spaghetti
that tastes so spaghetti like,
but is a hundred times better than the one you ate before.
And so now because you have a better point of reference
as to how good spaghetti can be,
the previous spaghetti you tasted was crap.
And that goes back into your kind of spy analogy and stuff.
And so the fact that this is called Spider-Man
instantly creates a standard
and expectation to be judged again.
People in the chat have made the argument
apparently it can be inconsistent,
like that the comics can be inconsistent.
And like, that's literally the point that I made.
And people are making it like, that's not my point.
I don't understand what's going on.
To rewind, I want to do a sort of overview.
So it was about making him accurate to Spider-Man.
And it's like, who is Spider-Man?
No, no, no, no.
Wait, wait, wait, let me do my whole thing.
And I know you might have problems with it along the way,
but this is, I just want to do the whole thing, okay?
I'll key you in.
So Tom Holland's Spider-Man stuff
is because it's not like the Spider-Man from the comics.
And they're like, so specifically,
there's a few arguments to tackle with that one.
It's like, which comics specifically?
Because if the comics are inconsistent, that's a problem.
How close does he have to be?
And what is the spirit, et cetera?
We've gone over a couple of them.
We came to who he is understood to be
by the majority of people,
similarly to the Bolognese thing.
Not people, by the majority of stories written in the works.
Okay, so the majority of the works.
So then once we've identified that it's that subject
to change based on just the amount of Tom Holland content,
you said it was the better written, is the preferable?
Yeah.
Yeah, so theoretically, there could be one extremely well,
let's just say the Spider-Man you like,
what if there was only one issue of that
and the rest of them were like this really awfully
written show, and you said to me like,
well, the well-written one is inconsistent,
so I don't care, like with the majority of the works.
And I'd be like, but Shad, that's like the best one.
No, good point.
Interesting one.
Generally, we like to define what something is
by its best version, don't we not?
Not this worst.
Sure.
So yeah, I kind of agree with it.
I guess the thing is it's like an adaptation argument.
What if we take something that's bad,
you adapt it and make it good.
Would you then say that it's right,
but this is the whole thing.
It's where you need to try and make the separation
between good or bad adaptation and good or bad story.
No, because I feel they're actually very tight.
Yeah, interesting.
I don't.
Well, let me explain why.
And I'm just kind of just reiterating what I said before
is because it's called Spider-Man,
we now have something to judge it against, okay?
If we didn't have anything to judge it against,
it could be that one of the best films we have seen.
But by instantly having a point of reference,
the other Spider-Mans, we can now compare him.
Okay, how noble is he?
How heroic is he?
How is he this?
How is he that?
Is he comparing to the character type
that's been established that is already so damn good?
And if it's not meeting up, we can say,
well, this is inferior.
It's not as good.
Agreed.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Agreed though.
But what if we live in a world
where there's only one issue of Spider-Man
and it's Tom Holland's version
and there's this other whole set of comics
called Arachnid Man, right?
It's completely unrelated,
but we're having this conversation today
and I go, guys, far from home is pretty shit.
And then you go, why?
And it's like, well, have you read Arachnid Man?
It's basically Spider-Man, but it's way better.
And I might be right.
I might very well be right.
I could argue how they've done the arcs way better.
The characters are much more stakes, et cetera, et cetera.
But you guys would be like, okay,
but can you explain what's wrong
with Spider-Man and his own story?
And I'm like, well, I want to reference him
to a better character, which is fair,
but then you're comparing writing,
not comparing adaptation.
Yeah, the response you would be able to say
in this instance is that and say, that's fine,
but it's still a good Spider-Man movie.
You can't say that if Arachnid Man is Spider-Man.
Yeah, no, we're willing to concede.
We're willing to concede it may very well be
a bad Spider-Man movie,
but we're not willing to concede that it's poorly written.
I'm also not willing to concede that it's bad Spider-Man.
See, I think you actually might be able to say,
have a different, you could judge it differently
that it is poorly written, again,
based on point of reference.
Mount Everest is only big when you compare it to yourself.
If your point of reference now is Jupiter, it's very small.
And so if you're comparing the writing
to something that's already existed,
that is the same amount of thought.
Yeah, but the mass of Mount Everest is identical,
regardless of whether you compare it to Jupiter or an atom.
It's the same no matter what you compare it to.
Again, this goes back into a more philosophical argument
as to how do you define something as good?
And it has to be compared to something else.
Mauler's more general point of reference is consistency.
And I agree completely.
I just don't think it's the only one.
Characterization is another big, important one.
And the character of Peter Parker is the point
that most people are scrutinizing here.
Yeah, and the arguments you've been presenting to us
ultimately, to me, come across as suggestions
for better writing, not suggestions for a better adaptation.
That's a coincidence.
How do you mean that's a coincidence?
So in the case of Arachnid Man,
it's not an adaptation, but it's better written.
Just because Arachnid Man is called Spider-Man,
that thus means it's a better adaptation.
It's like, no, it's about the writing.
It was always about the writing being better in that comic.
It wasn't about the fact that it was meant to be Spider-Man.
Do you know what I mean?
I'm trying to understand it
because when I look at the Spider-Man, Arachnid Man
comparison, like, if you never saw Arachnid Man,
sorry, what the hell?
Night Monkey.
Night Monkey, Night Monkey, Night Monkey, Night Monkey now.
Yeah, all right.
So if you never saw Arachnid Man
and you only saw Spider-Man, which is a comparison
to the MCU-1 and you thought it was great, that's great.
It could be the best movie you've ever seen,
but as soon as you see something better than it,
you now have a point of reference to compare it against.
And it can legitimately, you can, like, York it as like,
well, it's obviously a worse film than I,
you know, assumed because I've now seen a higher standard
that it could have achieved and it didn't get there.
So I'm trying to highlight, like,
when you say that comic man is better than film man,
I'm like, there's many ways you could argue it.
That's one of them.
You could say the colors guy is better
than the different colors guy.
The comic version is better than the film version.
These things are all sayable,
but the important part is the writing,
which is necessarily considered the better
or worse writing.
What I'm trying to highlight is this doesn't necessarily
have anything to do with adaptation.
Well, see, I think it's intrinsically connected
because it creates a standard that has,
that it will always be judged against
because it's the same thing,
but having said that as well.
What have you never seen Spider-Man before
and it's the only thing you've never seen?
Yeah, I've already given examples.
If you've never seen, yeah, again,
because you don't have the standard.
Yeah, but what I mean is, like,
what I mean is the,
let's say you get somebody who's never heard of Spider-Man,
they watch the film and they explain,
this is the writing, these are the characters,
this is what works, this is what doesn't,
plot holes, pacing, et cetera.
And it's like, this is the conclusion based
on assessing this film as its own thing.
And then you're like, okay, well,
here's the Spider-Man comics.
It's like, okay, that doesn't change the assessment
of the film because the film was assessed based
on what is in the film as its own thing.
I'm going to crack through this
because I know I can do it.
So when we said who Spider-Man is,
you can reference the comics,
you can talk about his spirit
and that it's inaccurate compared to the film one.
And then we get to talk about why that matters
or why whatever.
But I also see it specifically.
I'm going to make it a different point overall.
So you can make that argument
and we would be discussing the spirit
versus the other spirit and accuracy to the spirit.
But yeah, we moved on to the majority of the works,
which again is another consistent argument
if we can judge it,
but then the idea that it changes based on the amount
of one other one was changed then into,
you said that that Spider-Man is better
and it's better because it's better written,
I would imagine not because it's better
as a previous incarnation.
There's nothing, what I'm trying to say is remove adaptation
from this argument and your argument still stands.
Yeah, yeah, because that's what I'm saying
that the MCU one and my issue is far from home
is an inferior Spider-Man
that I could make an argument for irrespective
of the comics for X, Y and Z.
But because the comics exist,
I have a point of reference to show
this is how better it could have been
because this is better.
But I would say that especially you Fringii
and potentially Dice Bolshev,
I'm not sure how familiar he is
with like lots and lots of stories,
but we've got references all over the place
for like loads of different types of villain, for example.
Like why is vulture so much better than Iron Monger?
Like we'll talk about his motivation,
his connection to the character, his place in the world,
how it's much more meaningful than just bleh,
like I want to take over the world,
I'm a crazy person, whatever.
So if we'd never seen anything before
and we saw Iron Monger on his own,
we might say like, well, the film said he was crazy
so it's pretty consistent, I guess.
It's like, it's not particularly thin
I wouldn't need to say, ah,
but it's a poor adaptation of vulture
or something like this,
you don't make an adaptation argument,
making a writing argument.
Well, I mean, I think it's funny, right?
Because vulture in Homecoming
isn't really an accurate adaptation
of vulture from the comics.
Yeah.
Like a lot of people don't think vulture is very good.
He's kind of like a C-tier villain.
He's kind of like on the level of shocker, you know?
And I appreciate the argument that the comic guy
is better written, by the way.
I think that you may be right.
It's just not something that,
to say something's better than another thing
doesn't make the thing bad.
Oh, I don't know.
Let's see, that again comes right into
how do you determine value?
Like 10 out of 10 is a lot, okay?
If 10 is the highest number,
but suddenly if it's 10 out of 100, it's really low.
The number hasn't changed,
but because you're comparing against something higher.
But you agree with the concept, don't you?
Something being better than another thing
doesn't make the thing bad.
In isolation.
Oh, well see, that's really hard to establish categorically
because it's only dependent on your standard,
what you're comparing it against.
And so that's tough, I'm not sure.
But like what I'm suggesting is that both can and can't,
like it just depends on the context every time.
Perhaps, like perhaps both, you know.
Well, you know what I mean?
Like, you know, seven is better than six,
but six is still above five, so it's like above mid.
Yeah, yeah, I know, exactly.
And the issue is, like, I guess it's if,
okay, this might make more sense.
It's if a higher standard exists or not,
will determine if you're right or not, I would say more.
Because like 10 out of 10 is high
because there's nothing like, you can only be higher
if something else exists that's greater than it.
If nothing else exists that's greater than it,
absolutely, then it can't change.
But if something exists that is greater than it,
well, then you can't help but inform your determination
if it's good or not based on the,
we usually always compare things
against the highest, the most successful.
Like, you know, it's the world record
that we're comparing everyone else's times against.
And as soon as that world record is raised,
that then instantly changes the status
of every single record that's gone before.
Like, the first world record that was before,
that was the best, the best, unbeatable.
But as soon as someone pushed higher than it, it's not.
And our objective ability to judge the value
of the previous record has been permanently changed.
Yeah, so like, say, I don't know,
you had a sport where you had to drop a bunch of balls
into a hole and the guy who had the record for 100 was that.
And then for a million years,
no one could beat it objectively.
He's the best.
And then some guy does 102.
And it's like, whoa, he's not objective.
Well, fuck it, some guy does 1,000.
Like, not only is he not objectively the best,
he's not even close to objectively good at this point,
at least within the standard of the results.
Exactly, and I feel you can't escape that reality
even when looking at a sport.
So that's what me and Fringy,
and potentially a lot of other people,
and maybe other people wouldn't,
would be you've created a standard
that is subject to change, thus subjective.
The plot holes one is not subject to change.
The current state is the objective standard.
You can be objective to a standard.
Because kind of what you're trying to say here, I feel,
is even far from home,
homecoming you can argue is better,
is you're saying this is good
because we are not regarding the higher record
that's been already established.
And it might be because you haven't read
the other comic books, you haven't had experience with it.
I don't know, and I don't think that's entirely fair to say,
but it is like saying the record of the 1950s,
100 meter run is still the best
because it was best in that time,
even though we've surpassed it now.
It's like you're trying to disregard the higher standard
it's being compared against.
And I'm not sure that's fair.
But I wouldn't not maintain what you just said.
I would call it the best.
It would be the best by definition.
If homecoming was the only film that existed,
would you be like, would you concede
it's the best film in existence?
I'd be like, it's also the worst film in existence.
Like, okay, now there's two.
I'd be like, yeah, we can keep the standard going.
But objectively, you know, good,
I'm usually referring to just storytelling
being consistent or inconsistent
because of all these other ones,
which we've feasibly fairly brought up,
like an assertive character versus a passive one,
all these different sort of modifiers.
I agree with you that typically one factor
may be more admirable than another
or more likable for an audience,
but none of these things will objectively be superior
to another because of the fact that there'll be exceptions
depending on writing and context,
which isn't a problem.
I don't know, I see.
See, that point right there, I'm not sure I agree with.
Because the exceptions are usually the exceptions
that by definition means they are not the majority
which then establishes the general consensus
to be objective over this film.
I think a good can of would be.
So we have gravity, we have our theories
and understandings of gravity and how it works.
And it works in a way that is 100% predictable, basically.
Like at least in the normal sense.
If I dropped an apple and it went up,
like if it went up, it's like, cool.
Now this theory no longer works.
It needs to be completely redone.
It's no longer a standard that works.
When one exception disproves the rule,
the rule has to be completely re-examined.
So why would it be-
Unless you're able to find out that 60% of the time,
let's say 80% of the time,
when you let go of the apple, it will fall down.
And 20% of the time it will fall up.
Well, it means that your theory is deficient.
It means-
No, no, no, no, it goes back to the percentage thing.
It means that you're able to still judge
an objective standard based on the percentage.
No, it doesn't.
Once it becomes entirely unpredictable
and unexplainable, it doesn't work anymore.
The theory is no longer objective.
It's now you have to figure out a new theory
because it's not-
No, no, no, because you can work on the percentages.
Of course you still can.
No, no, you can't
because it's no longer an objective standard
if it doesn't work all the time.
No, quantum mechanics.
We know that-
Yeah, right.
But they work-
But there's the thing.
No, we know we don't have the full picture.
We're working off the percentage scale
that we know this percentage likelihood
that a particle will appear here.
And so we're working off an imperfect thing,
but it still works, right?
Yeah, and you could still be objective to it.
Yeah, but what I'm saying is-
Yeah, so more on that.
The science is working towards a 100% sort of standard
for those things.
They're not like, well, 80-20, that's pretty good.
We'll leave it there.
You know what I mean?
To clarify then, right?
Just to make sure,
because I feel like make sure all of us
are on the same page and all of chat.
And I think we all understand the same thing.
We're using different words.
So two streets, one is lit up.
One is not.
60% of the time going down the dark one will kill you.
90% of the time it won't on the light one.
Objectively take the light one.
It's the better road objectively.
You'd be like, yeah, but you can die 10% of the time.
It's like, yes.
Meaning that objectively it'll be more likely
that you'll survive on that road,
but it will not actually be objectively the better one
in every case.
That is what you're saying, right Shad?
Yeah.
So we're saying that when you are trying to analyze
something and you've identified that,
ah, there is a light road in this
and there is a dark road in this.
The light one is better.
Why?
The light one is typically better.
That's not why it's better though.
You've just identified why it's typically better.
But hang on.
That's Fringey's point.
That would make it better.
Yeah, but that would make it better though.
No, it wouldn't make it typically better.
You'd have to analyze it.
Typically, yeah.
Okay, but then, sorry,
then you would have to go into the specifics.
Yeah.
To determine exactly.
Which we could do.
We could go over the Tom Holland Spider-Man
versus the comic Spider-Man.
And I think that's fair.
But would you not agree at that point though,
if you identified an arc with loads of like setups,
payoffs, all talking about all the journeys
and different things, comparing it to Holland,
would you not eventually agree
that we're not even talking about adaptation at that point?
You're talking about quality of writing
with character versus character?
Well, see, I don't know.
I'm not sure you can just, like-
I'm not disregarding it.
I'm asking you an honest question.
Would that not be what we would be doing in that scenario?
Okay, well, sorry, I'll repeat it again.
So if you chose this character from this comic book
saying this is the one they're adapting from
and it's a poor adaptation, let me explain why,
and you explained to me why it's really well-written
in the comic versus poorly written in the film,
then you've identified a well-written character
versus a poorly written one,
rather than a poor adaption.
But I don't do this.
I don't do the same thing.
Well, I guess that's our point,
is that you could have a poorly adapted thing
that's actually better written.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Let me try and process that.
So like, so on a different scale.
You know, I could agree with that,
but then the point of contention would be,
is the MCU one?
Yeah, no, and that's a conversation to be had, I agree.
Yeah, because I feel absolutely,
you can improve upon source material.
And generally, when you improve upon it,
most people will happily define that as the new standard.
Like, if this MCU Spider-Man
was actually better than the comics,
I think most people will say, this is what Spider-Man is.
This is the thing we're gonna judge everything against
from now on.
And so-
So then the quantity argument becomes irrelevant then?
Well, no, I think it's a bit of a balance,
having said that.
Like, it would have to be pretty darn good to define.
But what in, if that scenario took place,
if we argued, let's just say for 10 years,
it took really long to identify every single factor
and you eventually said,
and I'm not saying this is possible even,
I'm just saying a theoretical.
You said, huh, Tom Holland's Spider-Man
is the best version of Spider-Man,
but it's still badly written because of support adaptation.
Would you still maintain that?
No, but if Tom Holland was able to be established
to be a better version based on many defined
objective things, yeah, but that's kind of
what I'm judging it already on,
that I feel judging it on objective standards already,
it's inferior.
And one of the points that I'm comparing it against
is the previous Spider-Man,
or the established Spider-Man.
If it was better, I'll be happy with that.
I want all the things I like to be better,
to be improved upon, if they can.
It's very difficult when it's already very good
and generally attempts to improve on something
that is brilliant,
usually results in inferior adaptation
or inferior version.
Spider-Man is unique in how good it is.
Like as a character, there's a reason why it's popular.
I mean, when I say unique, that's going too far.
There are other things that are equally as good, but yeah.
Would you like to, we can move into Far From Home.
Oh, no, wait, actually.
So is everybody as weird as this sounds?
Would everyone like to watch a small video?
It's only 10 minutes.
I would love to, my friend.
Yeah, don't feel bad if you have,
for people who want desk bullshit to talk more,
like I haven't talked a lot either.
It's just because the reason we're all here
is a very specific reason.
And if the reason is being fulfilled,
it's not on me to interrupt it
just because I haven't spoken enough, you know?
Yeah, like I don't want to force myself to talk too much
because like to be perfectly and totally honest with you,
it's like we had gone to that conversation once,
went to one and then looped straight back around
to where we left.
And so it's all like, well, you know,
I've already kind of given what I wanted to say
in like these short bursts,
but I don't really have a whole lot of attachment
to the adaptations, even though I did grow up
with Spider-Man cartoon.
It's a big ongoing argument.
We will not solve it in this stream,
but I think we've-
I think we've made good progress.
We got D4.
I think we have, I really do.
I agree.
Yeah, I do agree with Chad
that there does have to be a certain aspect of something
in order for it to be a proper thing
like Spider-Man and Batman.
If it's Spider-Man, he has to have the costume
and he has to have the webs
and he has to climb on the walls, stuff like that.
But then like, you know, just how far do you bring it?
You know, it's like, does Batman have to kill or not kill?
Does his reasons for doing what he does
have to be the same all the time?
Because I feel if we go too far,
then the adaptations will be too close together
and we won't have any interesting stories.
Yeah, and I would concede that you're right,
but I would always identify it as a poor adaptation.
It may still well be written.
It may still well be well written.
English is hard.
Yeah, and I absolutely agree.
And on that point, I say that Homecoming
is very good in that respect.
Like having a 15 year old theater and everything.
Just to get a quick answer from you more,
so hopefully we won't go too far on this,
but if the purpose, the intent of the writing
is to be a good adaptation and it's not,
wouldn't you say then that that's a failure
in an element of the writing?
That would highlight how important intent is
and then the concept of death of the author, I suppose.
Yeah, I guess what would happen
if John Watts said, no, I wasn't trying to be accurate,
but what's good now, I guess.
Well, again, then the obvious answer then
is why the hell even call it Spider-Man.
Yeah, but that's giving the goalposts at that point
because it was, well, what's the intent?
And the intent of the creator said,
whatever the answer to that question is,
does it change the result,
getting an answer to that question?
See, I'm not sure, because by the very virtue
of it being called Spider-Man or Star Wars or whatever,
irrespective of the intent of the writer,
he's not gonna be able to escape the fact
that it needs to be a Star Wars movie
or a Spider-Man movie and stuff.
And it actually speaks more to the fact
that if they intentionally diverge
from what these properties are,
it's far more likely it's going to be bad
or even received as bad and stuff like that as a result.
And that reflects on the writing.
I'm not sure, yeah, I guess we're just repeating ourselves now.
I'm still not sure that you can separate
the adapted value of something from the quality of writing.
I think that's an element of its quality.
If you convinced us or we convinced you,
it's gonna redefine how one of these sort of sides
looks at media as a whole.
So it's not something that's gonna come
in a couple of sentences in our game.
I know.
And I hope Chat understands that, by the way.
This is a very, like, I love this conversation,
but everyone's like, oh, it's like, calm down, calm down.
It's okay.
I guess they're really looking forward to the video.
They're really looking forward to it.
They really want us to cover the video.
So the reason why we had to do this before the video
is because he's gonna make certain statements.
Me and Fringy are gonna go one way.
Shad might go the other.
And so it's good we've got our foundation done
so we understand why we go the other ways.
Also, someone said, the intent is important.
You can't critique a book for not being a movie.
A book is a book.
A movie is a movie.
You can't critique a book as a movie
because that would be critiqued in a horse as a car.
It's impossible.
You can't do that.
If someone was to do that, they'd be wrong.
They'd be incorrect.
They'd be invalid.
It's not a standard that applies.
There is nothing.
I mean, I guess if they'd be right to a degree,
but it would be something that not many people
would even want to listen out for.
I think another one that I saw.
Well, now.
Just to go on that.
That's exactly what I was saying with the comparison
between Pride and Prejudice and Return of the Jedi, okay?
Is that these are two very different things
that are held to two very different standards.
And so, you know, how can you compare them against?
Well, I mean, if someone, what was the comparison
if a book to a movie or if a horse,
you can't complain if a horse was not a cart
or something like that.
If you're trying to sell the horse as a cart
and people get a horse instead,
they have, you know, absolute validity to complain about.
I like that one.
If they were to make an adaptation of Mauler
that advocated for subjectivity,
would it not be a bad adaptation of Mauler
regardless of how good the writing is?
I agree.
It's a poor adaptation of me,
but it could be very well written.
Yeah, wherever it could be a good story, yeah.
But see, my point right there is that
that intrinsically affects the ability,
like your judgment of the quality of the writing
is inherently connected with what it was supposed to fulfill.
And if it's not fulfilling what it's supposed to do.
I concede that it affects.
Oh, and he has 10 minute videos, too.
I concede that it affects intrinsically
the vast majority of the audience's ability to enjoy it,
but it doesn't affect the quality of the writing.
Well, quality being the operative word.
That's one of the elements you're judging the writing on
is how effectively it's a good idea.
When we say objectively,
we're trying to remove that element entirely,
how much people are enjoying it.
I'm not sure you can.
By the very virtue, it's called Spider-Man or Mauler
or whatever, that standard is connected
and you can't break past it.
You have to change the name completely.
But you agree, like say, for example,
Finn saying it's impossible for them
to track us through hyperspace,
and in the next scene saying,
yes, I mop the engine of the hyperspace.
Sorry, I just saw a chat from my editor.
Oz is in chat.
He's not me, guys.
He has my symbol and I might tell him it's Chatter-versity.
Don't believe him.
But, yeah.
Oh, yeah, Oz, sorry.
So Finn saying, it's impossible
to track us through hyperspace,
and then in the next scene saying,
yes, I can take us to the hyperspace trackers,
whatever thing to disable it.
We highlight, this is a plot hole
because he lacks information he's supposed to have
in the previous scene for a dramatic reveal
when he's had the information the whole time.
This also brings up another issue
of him not having warned everybody previously
since he's aware of it.
We don't need any feelings.
We don't need anyone's reactions
to identify that as being a flaw.
You'd agree with that, right?
Yeah, I agree completely.
And I don't think you need anyone's feelings either
to say that if this is called Spider-Man,
it's gonna be judged against every other Spider-Man
that's gone before.
And it's quality to be a Spider-Man thing
because what Spider-Man is,
is fairly established objectively.
And if it fails at certain beats,
even in small areas and stuff like that,
that you can absolutely judge the writing quality
as a result because it's called Spider-Man.
You can't escape that.
As soon as it's called Spider-Man,
you have linked it to comparison,
which is going to be a way
in which you judge the quality of writing
separate to consistency.
We probably need to highlight the argument
of continuity then as well.
Like you bringing in adaptation arguments,
we would consider them irrelevant
because it's a separate continuity.
But it's still called Spider-Man.
It's still called Spider-Man
because he's got the suit and the power.
Yeah, yeah.
And again, that goes back to the whole,
how many changes can you make to spaghetti
for it not to become spaghetti?
And you know.
And I'm a spaghetti extremist where I can say,
you can call it whatever you want.
It will not change the quality of the food
in terms of craftsmanship, depending on, well, you know,
like if it's in a bin and it's all fallen over,
then it's not really fair, but.
It's a very interesting argument
and we are repeating ourselves now, so.
Whether it is something or whether or not it's good,
two different things and we've gotten.
Yeah, I think we have.
Somebody's not in the watch together.
Who is it?
Who's the naughty man?
Oh, that would be me.
I'm sorry.
Hang on.
You're a bad person.
I think you guys have argued your points very effectively.
And I guess now it'll just be up to you.
Well, they're gonna, I warn you.
I sat there and I didn't do shit.
Go me.
Yeah.
So the video we're watching is called
Homecoming is a Bad Spider-Man Movie
by a man named Itop Films.
Now, the concept, as we've been discussing it,
the concept alone of it being that could be interpreted
as it's inaccurate to the comic book, Spider-Man,
which is not necessarily something
that we will be arguing against.
It's the evidence that one brings in.
Like if I told you Game of Thrones is a bad adaptation
of Lord of the Rings because this character
is inconsistent with knowledge they had
in this other scene.
You might be like, what does that have to do
with Lord of the Rings?
You've just highlighted bad writing
that can actually be confirmed or denied.
Like it could be like, no, they knew that because of this
or they didn't know that because of this.
So he's gonna bring in references
and we're gonna decide whether or not
they're actually valid references
for supporting his argument is essentially the idea.
That's what we do with old videos, pretty much.
Yeah, let's get into it, hey?
All right.
Exciting times.
Yeah, so we're finally watching a movie.
Two hours, we did it.
Well, you know what's fun is the chatter blissfully unaware
that me, Friggy and Shad have had,
this is probably our fourth conversation on this topic.
I know.
Yeah, we're talking about this a lot.
But what they may not understand is that we've got fuel
for days for talking about this
because it's our fundamental interest.
I was trying to hold back certain wild cards
and you guys parried well and stuff like the whole,
the Pride and Prejudice and Return of the Jedi analogy
and the Spaghetti analogy.
I was holding those back for the live stream.
Yeah, I parried that movie analogy with universe unit.
It's fucking, it's a great weapon, man.
Is everybody ready?
Yeah.
I think so.
Here we go.
I'm getting an ad.
Oh, you are?
Spider-Man Homecoming.
Yeah.
Oh no, okay.
It looked like an ad, but it's not.
Yeah, I saw the same thing.
Spider-Man movie.
Now, before you start smashing your keyboard,
calling me a hack, chill out, grab a joint or a beer,
freakin' banjo and let me explain.
I hate these prefaces, by the way.
Like, I hate when they're like,
oh, before you do this, it's like, shut up, man.
Yeah, you know.
Why don't you let me decide when I do this, bitch?
I, well, you, I preface so much in so many odd videos.
You're just trying to get ahead of certain arguments,
you know, that'll come and go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it.
I think Spider-Man Homecoming is a good movie.
It's fun, funny, heartfelt,
and contains one of the strongest villains
in the entire MCU.
Hey.
The acting is pretty solid from pretty much every lead,
especially Tom Holland.
Holland perfectly embodies a youthful teenager.
The writing is entertaining throughout
and the pacing is pretty perfect.
The movie never drags and never moves too fast.
Man, this sounds like it'd be right up your alley, Shad.
Seems to be, he's on board with it, but.
Yeah, it's good.
Going good so far.
I walked out of the theater thoroughly entertained
and excited for what's to come.
But then when I got home, something was off.
One might even say my Spidey senses were tingling.
So I did as any man does when he is confused.
I turned on my favorite flick, Spider-Man 2.
Now you're probably saying to yourself,
you my dear fellow R.A.R.R.A.R.Y fanboy.
So,
this may be confirmed or denied as we go forward,
but there is such a thing and it would probably mean
that they're unable to view past
or future Spider-Mans beyond R.A.R.Y.M.Y,
which isn't necessarily.
It could be that the R.A.R.Y.M.Y film for him
has established a higher world record
that he's comparing it against
that others might not be considering.
Perhaps we shall see.
But you are biased.
Indeed I am.
So take this video as an opinion, not a fact.
And yes.
It depends if you say factual things, my friend.
We'll see, bud.
We'll see, George.
If I say it's my opinion,
two plus two does not equal four.
I don't know that.
Okay.
Yeah, you can absolutely still challenge the opinion
if it's wrong.
What's just, you know,
you can say things that are just provably false,
whether you say it's your opinion or not.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, the defense of it is the saying,
don't take it personally if you disagree
because that's absolutely true.
Where the defense works is if Shad says something like,
what did you think of Far From Home?
And I go, I really liked it.
And then he goes, you're wrong.
I'd be like, I'm not wrong.
What?
You liked it.
You can't like it.
Yeah, exactly.
It wouldn't even make sense at that point.
I wouldn't need the defense.
Spider-Man Homecoming featured the penguin
and it was bad.
It's like, oh, it's like, you know, it's like, whoa, okay.
I'm open to it.
So take this video as an opinion, not a fact.
And yes, video essays can be opinions.
How many flip and argument essays have you written in school?
Essays can be biased.
And yes, I am biased.
I believe Spider-Man 2 is a cinematic masterclass
in character story directing tone
and everything in between.
Back to the point.
I watched Spider-Man 2, then read Spider-Man Blue
and the old Ditko books and came to the solid conclusion
that Spider-Man Homecoming is not a great Spider-Man flick
let alone a good one.
Not a good Spider-Man flick, let alone a good one.
Implying that it's not a good flick in general.
No, no, not a good Spider-Man flick.
He's still comparing it against the same thing.
So the sentence was, it's not a good Spider-Man flick,
let alone a good one.
Wait, wait, wait, let me hear it again.
I might be wrong.
I might be wrong.
May have heard that wrong.
And the old Ditko books and came to the solid conclusion
that Spider-Man Homecoming is not a great Spider-Man flick
let alone a good one.
Oh, so you're saying it's not even a good Spider-Man flick.
Okay, okay.
He said it's not great, not even good.
Okay, so he's still comparing against the standard
of what Spider-Man is, yep.
All right.
Okay.
But he's the only Spider-Man who embodies the youth
of a teenager.
Yeah, I know.
He's actually a high schooler, not a 30 year old.
Yep, gotcha.
He quips like Peter Parker, Toby never quipped.
Well, you're wrong on that one.
That's a cute outfit.
Did your husband give it to you?
But high top, that was the opinion.
It's like the only one.
It's like the only one.
Ah, don't you, don't forget the Gobby one.
You did say Gobby.
There's probably, there's gotta be more than that, right?
I feel like there's probably more than that.
There's probably more than that.
I want plenty, I want to get a list now.
Guys in chat, there's a list of the quips in Raimi.
Is there any in the final fight, just as he arrives?
Does he say anything to Green Goblin?
I can't remember.
I don't think so.
In the final fight?
No, he pretty much beat the shit out of him at that point.
I mean, like when he arrives at the bridge,
does he say anything like, you're an asshole, Gobby.
There's like, in Spider-Man 2,
the one I remember is when Doc Ock comes to the bank
and is fighting and he throws a bag of money at him
and he catches and throws it back and says,
here's your change.
Yeah, I don't, that one's lame, all right?
It's not, that was lame.
It didn't, it wasn't funny.
I don't think it's that bad.
I refuse to acknowledge that
because of how poor a punter was.
Maybe it was the delivery.
Like, maybe it's just because you're one and two again.
Honestly though, with High Top 10s to,
he argues the whole,
we'll go into this in a little bit later, there's a tweet,
but he argues the whole like,
no perspective is right or wrong.
Everyone takes what they did.
So the person's saying he doesn't quip and he said,
well, you're not right or that one.
I'd be like, well, that's their opinion, isn't it?
That he didn't quip.
You know what I mean?
Like, obviously he doesn't apply to that standard
because no one should.
It's silly to be like, nothing is provable
because there are things that are provable.
Absolutely.
We never quipped.
Well, you're wrong on that one.
That's a cute outfit.
Did your husband give it to you?
Hahaha.
Anyways, Spider-Man Homecoming is not a good Spider-Man movie
for three big reasons.
Consequences.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Calm yourself, calm yourself.
Do we want to discuss this before we have his input?
Hang on, hang on.
I saw two.
Consequences, the suit and what?
The MCU.
The MCU.
The MC, whoa.
Well, we'll let him argue it,
but no, I'm assuming you guys have heard this one,
that there's no-
See, it's funny.
Sorry, go ahead.
You go ahead.
My thing's gonna be like an intro to something.
I was gonna say, I'm mostly on board with him,
but his reasons I might disagree with here
when he goes into the specifics.
Yeah, so this is,
going so far,
because like I said,
far from home is nowhere near as bad as-
No, what the hell am I saying?
There's nearly as bad as far from home.
Far from home is the one that I have the issue with.
Homecoming is far more defensible.
A lot of people,
so Shad, would you make this argument,
Spider-Man Homecoming lacks consequence
for any of Peter's actions
in both the short term and long term?
No, I wouldn't make that argument.
Okay, I'll have to stand and-
Well, I wonder if his argument is gonna be
the type of consequences
based on the type of decisions Peter is making
is different and therefore not true to the true Spider-Man.
That might be more defensible, but we'll see.
Okay, well, you know what?
Yeah, okay, we'll let him,
because that's two different conversations,
so we can't account for them all.
We'll just let him decide the conversation.
Yep.
In this movie, Peter makes a plethora of mistakes.
He indirectly destroys the sandwich shop in Queens
and no one dies, not even the cat.
He seemingly doesn't feel-
Yes, but the robbers get away.
Yeah, and he didn't mean to do that.
But you would say it's convenient that no one died?
There was one guy there,
the idea that the laser hits his shop in one line.
Oh, hang on, can we go back to how big the explosion was
and the laser is shooting and stuff?
In this movie, Peter makes a plethora of mistakes.
He indirectly destroys the-
But that's-
That's, okay, so no one is in there, maybe?
Yeah, we're-
It's out of night, it didn't look like anyone was in there.
Yeah, the assumption would be that the,
because it is his grocery store,
whatever the guy he saves,
but the assumption would be that he's not in the main area.
He would be in some kind of bathroom.
No, you wouldn't expect him to be in there.
If he was in the main room, he'd be dead.
Because that's probably quite significant.
And a lot of those places,
if they live in their shop, they live upstairs.
Typically, yeah.
Well, he is downstairs, remember?
Because in the scene, he's on the,
like, oh, what's your emergency?
Spider-Man's fighting the Avengers.
That's true, that's true.
Yeah, he is downstairs.
Oh, he should be dead now.
If he's in there, if he's in that building,
when that happens, he should be dead.
You can say it's, like, convenient that he's lucky,
but I wouldn't say it's really a-
Well, yeah, so-
People have survived explosions before.
You can absolutely say it-
This could be a valid point of criticism.
No, no, no, I was gonna say,
you can say it's convenient the guy didn't die,
but it's still not without consequence,
because the robbers leave.
They get away, because of Peter's mistake.
So he has to face consequences still.
It's been too far since I watched this film,
because what, like, does Peter run out
to try and see what happened in the explosion,
like, the robbers go because of that?
He goes over to the shop to see if the cloak's okay,
and then he pulls them out.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what happens.
So just to stay focused, yeah,
is there no consequence for Peter
having destroyed this building?
It's like, well, he has to go
and make sure the person's okay,
because that's entirely tied to his character,
and by doing that, the robbers escape.
Which completely delays his ability
to figure out what happened to him much later,
you know, up until the party when he gets destroyed.
I'm not trying to be some kind of apologist here.
I'm literally just like, that is a consequence, right?
Like, what are we talking about here?
It is consequence.
See, my point, if I was to be annoyed with this,
which might have validity,
I generally am annoyed by heroes
that are only doing, solving problems
that they themselves are creating.
That's a, it's generally a bad, you know, hero,
because they're basically a bumbling idiot
causing as much harm as they are doing good.
And so I generally, yeah, that rubs me the wrong way,
and then it's kind of a balance.
How many mistakes are they making?
How much good are they doing?
Things like that.
And so this is a problem that Peter caused, is it?
Well, I guess.
Technically, it's him and the robber put together.
The robbers had the gun in the first place.
I mean, this is probably
the least consequential thing that happened.
Yeah, it's not the opening of the movie.
It's back to the deli owner.
Yeah, no, yes, for him, yes.
But I mean, in terms of the plot, this is.
If some random stupid guy tried to stop the fight
on the BP across the road and blow up my house as a result.
Oh, fascinating.
And the robbers got away.
Loads of people in chat are arguing
that the robbers getting away isn't a consequence.
Like it's not, it doesn't count.
How does it not count?
Are you guys like unaware of,
so the idea is that Peter wants to stop the bad guys.
He lets the bad guys escape.
That's like, that's not good.
The argument could be made that more harm is caused
by his attempt to interfere.
Yeah, which would be another.
Yeah, that's what the film is about.
He keeps screwing up.
And then I would concede.
I would concede that the consequences could have been higher.
Yeah.
But I still think it's invalid to say
there are no consequences from this moment.
We all agree, at least agree on that.
Yeah.
He's got to make sure.
I'm trying to determine like,
so this scene can be considered good
because it serves a larger narrative
of him trying to be a better hero.
It's not a scene you could cut, I don't think.
I think it's an important scene
because it establishes he learns.
You can define consequences literally
any reaction to any action.
So he's trying to prevent robbers from stealing money
and he fails to capture them.
That's pretty consequential.
Would you guys not agree?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, of course, yeah, it is.
But I think that he's trying to argue
because the guy doesn't die
that the consequence isn't high enough.
Yeah, which is bullshit.
I'm sorry.
See, if I was to criticize this scene,
I would try and approach it from the angle of,
is it necessary and what is it doing
to establish Peter's character?
It is necessary, but I'm not sure.
I don't know, but to be effective,
to be competent, to be incompetent,
so I need to judge it according
to all those different things.
But as to saying there's no consequences,
no, I wouldn't approach the criticism
from this angle, if that makes sense.
It isn't a grave consequence, I agree.
Yeah, let's continue.
Yeah, yeah, sorry.
He makes a lot worse ones, I remember.
In this movie, Peter makes a plethora of mistakes.
He indirectly destroys the sandwich shop in Queens
and no one dies, not even the cat.
He seemingly doesn't feel guilty
that he destroyed this man's livelihood.
Everything's fine.
He ditches Ned at Liz's party in the net.
I suppose there's a velocity to that, I can agree with.
We don't get any scene for him to reconcile
that that has happened to that man.
Didn't that show on, no, they went to the store, remember?
They went to what, sorry?
He's talking to Ned, he walks past the shop
and he sees the shop is destroyed.
And there's a little moment there
where he's sort of recognizing that.
They kind of have a joke at the end of that scene
but yeah, there is a scene where you see the shop
the day after it got destroyed.
I don't disagree though that the idea that there's no,
maybe we could have used it maybe a scene
where Peter gets to talk to the guy.
Yeah, I think so.
So I agree with that.
He destroyed this man's livelihood.
Everything's fine.
He ditches Ned at Liz's party
and then Ned forgives him the next day.
Everything's fine.
Yeah, so-
Ned knows what's up.
Yeah.
So I've heard this a lot
and I always ask the question of like,
so what should Ned have done?
Like just not be friends with him?
I'm confused.
Ned has a problem that he did it
but Ned understands immediately.
It's like, oh, you did it because you were neatly killed
and you're trying to help people?
Okay, I get it.
Yeah, and the consequences-
Yeah, he's the loss of social capital too.
Yeah.
Peter as a result is now less trusted
and less relied upon and many more people.
And before someone says they're not significant consequences,
this movie is scaled down entirely.
It's not about life and death.
I mean, there's still a death in it
but that should highlight how different this movie is.
The fact is only one.
It's a friendly neighborhood sense.
So the consequences are really, go ahead.
Yeah, the counter to it as well is that the fact
that Ned was able to, you know, get over that so quickly
is a character building moment for Ned,
the character himself to make him more likable,
more appealing to establish and stuff.
And so there is a logical counter to that, so.
Well, I mean, not to mention Ned, you mean,
you've seen Ned geek out over the whole fact
that he knows who Spider-Man is and everything like that.
So it's a good friend.
He's a good friend.
And he is a good friend.
He's stuck by Peter the most
out of all of his friends in the world.
Why would he suddenly ditch over like something
that he even understands is going on?
So it was highlighted to me that,
isn't it significant that the robbers are still out there
with those weapons?
Like there's still a consequence.
I mean, I'm pretty sure we conceded that.
I was just, it is pretty bad.
They're horrible weapons.
The fact that they blew up the deli is like, oh shit.
I want to get rid of it.
But yeah, the consequence here isn't,
this is my problem with the framing.
So it's like, he's left Ned behind
and Ned's just okay with it.
No consequence.
It's like, oh yeah, that's not the consequence
of those scenes, actually.
It's not in relation to Ned.
It's in relation to Peter standing socially.
And if the film played out that Ned no longer spoke to him.
And the consequences that are later on in the movie,
that's how Vulture figures out that he's Spider-Man.
Oh yeah.
That's actually worth saying.
So it's actually a really significant consequence
to that one, that's how he figures it out.
The time he tries to bring Spider-Man out as a party trick
and then fails to turn up is a huge element
for why Vulture finds out that Peter is Spider-Man.
Yeah.
Which is a heavy consequence.
One more thing to note.
I kind of have homecoming in in the background over here.
One thing to note is that Spider-Man
doesn't even really fire that laser or anything like that,
or does anything that particularly
makes it an accident.
The goons just cranks the knob and fires at him.
And so it wasn't really, it wasn't entirely Spider-Man's fault.
I guess the argument would be that Spider-Man being there
had that scenario run that way.
So he's technically responsible
for whatever the robbers do outside of things
they would have done if he wasn't there.
Yeah, but he framed it in a way
that said Peter fucked the thing up.
Yeah, no, it's not as directly Peter's fault.
I would agree with that.
Right.
Hey guys, sorry, I just need to go to the toilet.
I'll be back in a sec.
No, crowbell ammo.
Yeah, a lot of people are saying
that the robbers don't turn back up in the film,
therefore they can't count as a consequence.
I find that interesting.
There's a living breathing world, yeah.
It's like they are just doing the job of like a larger body.
So it's not like, you know,
he has a reason to go after these particular ones
because they're just like, you know,
the limbs of a large.
Dude, I'm tired of this stupid objective
as a subject of bullshit.
I'm sick of not letting people not finish their points
and I'm tired of the hypocrisy and high egos.
Damn.
Are you sick of these motherfucking snakes as well?
Do we want to continue or wait for Shad?
Oh, I was going to wait for Shad
so he gets to hear the whole thing.
No worries.
But yeah, I mean,
if you don't like the whole objective as a subject,
I don't know why you'd be subscribed to me.
That's like my whole thing.
And as for like, no, sorry.
I just noticed you're not in the same steel frame as me,
but it's on the steel frame
where Ned and Peter are doing their handshake.
It's like, they're good friends.
Why would, why would you be in my speed week?
That's very important, isn't it?
It's a highlight of how long term the connection is
and how thorough.
Massive egos with massive in our case.
Our egos are of a massive.
Throughout a lot of that debate,
a lot of people were arguing about pineapple on pizza.
I found that kind of.
Well, I mean, I'm saying pineapple on pizza is insane,
but I think we said all this back in like,
I want to say before you have 10, but yeah,
we do pause people before they finish points.
And if their point changes,
once we've listened to the whole thing,
we absolutely concede we were wrong.
Yeah, like, oops, you were making a joke.
I get it now.
Yeah.
Well, it's because it's Spider-Man.
It's Godzilla as well would be the other one.
Yeah, it's like, it's the format.
So people often say like,
you should watch the whole video beforehand
so that you can know exactly when to pause
and stuff like that.
And I'm always like, oh yeah,
but you lose the initial reaction thing.
And ultimately you don't remember a video intrinsically
when you do that anyways,
it doesn't necessarily solve the problem.
As long as we account for any sentence
that fixes a previous one or whatever,
then that's the goal.
We'll lose a lot of eFap more too,
if we just let it play.
I mean, we would have missed the Rhino milking.
I mean, all kinds of things we would have missed
if we didn't pause.
Yeah, some of the best reaction moments wouldn't exist
because we'd all have them prepared.
This stream is very,
this stream is very appropriately called
every frame a pause.
True.
You usually don't defend bad writing, but now you are.
Any inconsistencies or contrivances
that have been brought up,
we've argued through and then conceded.
I don't think we've been that bad on that subject.
What do you think, Shad?
Have we been overly defensive?
Well, if the quality of writing
is intrinsically connected to its adaptive value,
then there is a criticism to be made on the writing then,
isn't there?
Well.
Just saying.
From the perspective of the consistency stuff,
how have we fared, do you reckon?
Yeah, I think, yeah, for Homecoming specifically,
I think that's pretty well.
Once this video is done,
we can jump to Far From Home
and we'll be at past three hours by then.
Yeah.
There's gonna be a chuggy Efap.
Yeah.
Ditches Ned at Liz's party
and then Ned forgives him the next day.
Everything's fine.
He shirks all his responsibilities
and then gets detention, ditches detention
and then gets away scot-free.
He gets several more detentions
and he gets close to expelled in the film as the dialogue.
Yeah, and the only reason he doesn't get expelled
is because he stops being Spider-Man
to focus in on school again.
Yeah, and so this is, by my account,
a poor framing of what the film actually has in it
to support his argument.
Yeah.
What do you reckon, Chad?
I think it's a weird punishment
to expel someone for skipping class
because that's kind of giving them what they wanted.
Hmm.
Oh, sorry, we talked about something else.
No, yeah, I agree with you, I think that's fair.
He skips on detention, you don't expel him.
You're like, okay, what the fuck's going on?
So, do we see the impact of the further detentions
and stuff upon him?
We don't see that.
It's just nodded to.
Nodding to can be enough because, you know,
how important is it to the plot
for us to see those detentions?
Well-
I thought there were a lot of instances
where you see that he's kind of not paying attention,
like earlier in the movie,
he's watching a video on YouTube,
he's not really paying attention.
When he's at decathlon, he's not really paying attention
and then he skips decathlon and then like,
even in his science class,
he's working on his web shooters
rather than what he's meant to be doing.
I thought it was reinforced throughout the whole movie.
Yeah, no, well, I mean, I must, Chad,
are you saying like we need to see like a great report
that's really bad sort of thing?
Yeah, I don't know, I don't know.
This one I'm a little on the fence about,
so I won't point him one way or the other.
This has been like wrong, right, wrong
sort of right now for high top.
He shirks all his responses-
Wait, wrong, right, wrong, wrong.
So we'll see how the next-
Right, wrong, wrong, I thought it was.
It might, I'm not keeping score, I can't.
It's detention, ditches detention
and then gets away scot-free.
Everything's fine.
He endangers the lives of the decathlon team
after leaving them at the competition.
They win and I'll survive.
Everything's fine.
So- Okay, so wait,
by leaving them at the thing,
he didn't even realize that it was a danger
until like well after he like,
yeah, like when it went to the competition,
there wasn't, he wasn't sending him into danger,
like on purpose.
He only found out that there was danger
long after they had attended.
Interestingly though,
it is a problem caused by the hero
that he now needs to solve.
And so if you're looking at this
from a broader overarching thing
as to how effective a hero is he
and is constantly needing to save people
from stuff ups is making,
that doesn't come across as a competent hero as a result,
which can be-
So what wouldn't have happened
if there wasn't that happening
to enable it?
I mean, Age of Ultron is bad.
Age of Ultron is the better example.
Civil war, not so much.
Well, what I mean is Age of Ultron is bad,
but like civil war kind of makes it work,
at least in the consequences of the heroes
made the mistake.
You know what I mean?
I appreciate this argument.
You want to shelve it for a little bit later,
the idea of like an incompetent hero
and how to sort of portray it,
to stick to high tops.
Ah, yeah, I'm thinking of it.
To stick to high tops goal here,
we're just identifying consequences
and sort of discussing it.
So the idea that the friends are endangered,
nearly killed, but they're all rescued.
Everything's fine.
My issue there is he's drawn the event.
He started describing the events way too late.
It was like Peter's looking into Vulture.
He's focused in hardcore on Spider-Man at this point,
at expense of Peter Parker.
He doesn't even go to the Catherine.
He's playing with this Chitauri core.
He doesn't exactly know how it works.
And by having Ned hold on to it,
the consequence of him pursuing all this shit with Spider-Man
is about to kill every one of his friends.
And so he has to act.
So my take on the consequence there is already there.
Like he's like, good God, that's a pretty big consequence.
His friends are all about to die.
Yeah, what is he trying to say?
He's saying that they didn't die, so it's no consequence.
He saved them.
Which is a post-Hawk argument and I don't like it.
Well, maybe he's trying to argue that
the problems Peter is causing are all turning out fine.
And that if he's causing this many issues,
he's saying logically something should impact
far more negatively on his life
as a result of this many stuff-ups.
They did, though, because when he lost the suit,
because he made a big mistake.
Well, we haven't gotten to the suit yet.
That could be one he brings up.
But in the examples he's giving at the moment,
he could be trying to say that everything is turning out fine
when that could be considered unrealistic,
where it could take away any concern that something
horrible could really happen to the protagonist.
Because everything is just working out for him,
even when he's stuffing up majorly.
OK, well, in Spider-Man 2, Doc Ock
fights Spider-Man on the train and then he destroys the train
and then it starts moving right towards the end.
Spider-Man saves them. Everything's fine.
You see what I mean? It's like it's kind of a stupid argument
because there is consequences in the scene in the train fight.
To me, that sounds like a what about-ism
and it doesn't invalidate the criticism that he found on my head.
What I mean is you would explain how in Spider-Man 2
it's like, well, there clearly are consequences to that scene.
Like the scene itself is a consequence, you know what I mean?
Like the scene itself is the consequence of things that happened before.
No, no, yeah, but that's not exactly what I'm pointing out
if there's a valid point is making.
It's that with all these problems that is happening
and Peter Parker is causing,
perhaps is arguing that they are too easily resolved
without any negative or permanent impact on his life.
And story, which then might undermine any investment
we have in the problems later on
if it's just showing that Peter Parker always comes out on top.
How is he coming out on top?
Like, in what sense, right at the end, you mean, or?
Well, with the examples he's giving at the moment,
are there permanent impacts to his life or character
from these things that are happening?
He loses Liz.
No, no, no. The examples he's given so far.
We are not through these yet.
Well, I mean, we're not through the movie yet, though.
Yeah, yeah, but he's giving examples that, like, because
if he tries to criticise, you know, the fact that vultures the father
and he loses Liz and everything's fine,
well, then we can say he's wrong in that instance.
But no, we're looking at the examples he's giving thus far.
And I think he's trying to say that there's no permanent impact
on his life or character as a result of these issues.
Well, I mean, I'd say that they're important growth experiences, for one.
How so? Like, in terms of things that he learns.
Well, these all reinforce what he learns by the end of the film
about, you know, the way that he needs to conduct himself.
So it does have a consequence, at least in that sense,
beyond the ones that have, you know, already been illustrated before,
like that the actual consequence in the scene or the consequence later
in the film, him showing up at DC is what gave away that he was
because remember in the last scene with Liz, where she's like,
you disappear like you always do, like you did in DC.
And then vulture literally says, well, I'll share what happened there.
I bet you're really glad when Spider-Man showed up.
And then he says, well, no, I saw it from the ground.
So the consequence of this scene is that vulture finds out he's Spider-Man
and then tries to kill him.
Which would be a permanent consequence, right?
Which is a consequence.
Very, very valid parry, sir.
This this film is all about cause and effect.
That's why I find it odd when someone says that.
OK, everything has a consequence.
OK, so yeah, you believe, yeah,
the direct consequence of that scene is vulture finding out.
That's more the indirect consequence.
That's like the consequence that you don't see coming.
It's something that comes later when the twist comes and you're like, oh, shit.
And it all builds up.
It keeps building up the things that he does.
And it ends up screwing him over at the end.
Good point for this specific one.
Yeah, very good point.
And not to mention, he's using Spider-Man 2 as a reference
just to say, OK, well, this is the reason that, you know,
this is a bad Spider-Man adaptation.
And he's using Spider-Man 2 as the example of what he's going off of.
So when you come to the train sequence, it seems like there's far less
consequences, except for, you know, getting bonked in the face
and taken out at the end.
But it seems like the consequences of that are
I think in the grand scheme of things far less than in Homecoming.
Wouldn't you say?
Well, the thing is, it's like I use that as an example
because I disagree with the idea that.
You cut out, babe.
Oh, well, I was using the train scene as an example
because the train scene is really good
and like it is a consequence in and of itself.
The scene happening.
But then, of course, if you if you really try to stretch it, you could say,
well, nobody died.
His identity was revealed, but nobody's going to tell anybody.
So everything's fine.
You know what I mean? It's like
it's it's almost as if he's like ignoring that the scene itself
is the consequence of things that happened before.
And just because no one dies doesn't mean that it wasn't important.
Yeah. So the concept of reducing the consequences as a whole, for example,
the fight in the airport scene in Civil War
isn't really have any consequences because nobody died.
Would be a much more expected consequence,
considering it's every single hero fighting each other.
That's a whole other argument than me and Fringy despise.
But we'll get to that some other century
when you're dealing with a high schooler who's trying to balance
his social life with his superhero life.
Everything is crushed down.
And so the idea that it's like it's not a consequence unless someone dies.
And I'm not saying that's what everyone here is saying.
I'm not saying that's what anyone here is saying.
But the idea alone.
Frustrating because it almost nobody's making the death makes consequences.
Didn't he literally say when it exploded?
The shop owner didn't die, didn't his caddy didn't even die.
Pay attention, God damn it.
High top dose, not subscribers.
Your logical for Lucy.
Stop judging him by it.
Noted. OK.
He endangers the lives of the Catholic team after leaving them at the competition.
They win and all survive.
Everything's fine.
He ditches Liz at homecoming and.
Everything is fine.
What was sometimes.
No, no, no, that was the last straw.
All right. Why did he why did he have the gap?
Was he doing some kind of joke or is he actually serious?
Like he was what I think he was trying to do is like he was
he went in a big detail on a whole lot of the other things that had happened.
And then there was just that one moment like I ditched her.
Everything's fine.
You know, so I was actually making a joke.
He leaves Liz at homecoming gap gap.
OK, that one does have a permanent impact.
But OK, that's what I was expecting.
I was like, yeah, that was the thing.
Yeah, that was the thing.
That was the last straw for her.
He lost the woman that he was trying to pursue throughout the film
because of that moment there.
That was it for her.
Oh, hang on.
Let's try and break out because more you got a better memory of this film.
Is that why she ditched him?
Or is because his would she have stuck with Peter
if her dad didn't go to jail?
So she says that one line where she says he says, I'm so sorry, Liz.
And she says, you say that a lot.
What are you sorry for this time or something like that?
Implying that she doesn't take him seriously whatsoever anymore.
This is is it the second or third time he's ditched it?
There's no what I'm trying to say is there's no line where she says
I will not date you, Peter Parker.
But there's definitely an implication of, you know,
she's got absolutely no interest in him in him
because he keeps just failing over and over again.
But it's kind of dwarfed by the fact that her dad is not sure I got that.
Like I got the impression that she probably would have stuck with him
if she wasn't moving away.
I don't I don't get that either because he ditched her so many times through.
Yeah.
Like she actually kind of.
Yeah, like she's totally justified in her response at that point.
Yeah, yeah.
I didn't see her say like, you know, you left me alone.
I was so embarrassed.
Well, interestingly, Shad, would you not agree that either way,
it's a consequence of Peter's actions because he's the reason
Vulture's in jail and thus moving his family out?
That's true. Yeah.
But I'm curious what that gap was for.
And let's just see where he goes with this,
because he's doing these in sections, obviously.
Is Liz at homecoming and.
Everything is fine.
The film was sometimes aware of its lack of consequences.
That's why this is a comedy.
So maybe I could.
Yeah, so as it stands, he's wrong.
And there's this
tismic rear in chat that's saying we're taking him out of context consistently.
What do you guys take on his point in that moment?
If you if he reaffirms the point later on and justifies it
as something completely different,
I wouldn't change what the point just there was, would it?
Oh, I'm doing my best to try and keep him in context.
I understand exactly what it is.
As it stands,
I'm the only one who's offered any defense to some of the things to say,
even if you guys convinced me against, you know, my initial.
I'm doing my best here.
I think he would have an argument if he was phrasing this
with a much more fine tooth like sort of the consequences
are not to the degree that he thinks should be considering the actions.
Something like that.
That might be a fair way to put it.
But the idea that there's no consequences, that's just patently false.
So where are the consequences?
That's why scenes like this are played up for comedy.
I was hoping maybe I could rejoin the team.
No, no way.
You can't just quit on a stroll up and be welcome back by everyone.
Hey, welcome back, Peter.
Yeah, so the idea there is that Flash is constantly put down
trying to achieve and get attention while Peter is too intelligent to be dropped.
And if you're going to say to me,
well, you'd still have to agree that that's a lack of consequence
where they could have been one.
I'd be like, absolutely.
There's a lot of places where you can place consequences in this film that aren't.
There's also a lot of places where there are consequences
where you didn't have to have them.
Vulture could have found out his identity in different ways.
Yeah. And sometimes you get you have multiple options as a writer
to choose which path to go down to service what you want in the plot.
A good example is with his friend.
What's his name again?
Ned. Ned. Ned being OK with Peter ditching him.
I actually felt that was a character building moment for Ned
with him being OK with it, which actually service the plot in that regard.
And so, yeah, there are absolutely different options you can choose.
It's not an absolute negative thing that, you know,
the character didn't react the way that we thought he should have reacted
when it was valid that Ned reacted that way.
And so the way we were seeing Flash react is absolutely valid.
And it's in line with this character and establishes who he is.
And it's also establishing certain elements about Peter Parker's character
and also the teacher, the teacher is obviously a bit incompetent,
but he values Peter, you know, because he's intelligent.
Someone in chat said if he's too intelligent to drop them, why did they win?
So if you've got a stacked team and you can make it even more stacked,
you'd probably choose to make it even more stacked.
Yeah, you'd get it all the stops to win, except for cheating.
Like, you know, I just figure that if you've got a choice,
because he replaces Flash and Flash is shown in this film to not be very intelligent.
So, yeah, I think his point in this scene exactly is a more subjective one
where he feels there should have been more consequences for his actions.
And it came off as unsatisfying.
But, yeah, my take is that there are multiple ways you can choose to go in a scene
that many can be realistic and you usually go with the one that you feel
best serves the plot of the story that you're trying to make and things.
Because, like, if he wasn't if he wasn't allowed to go on the decathlon,
how would that have derailed the story?
You wouldn't have a alibi for going to Washington to search for vulture.
And if he didn't search for vulture, he might not have been able to stop him.
So for the service of the story, he needed to go to, you know, Washington.
And that's the thing.
I don't think anyone can say that it should have been X or Y.
It's like both of these scenarios would have worked if the teacher said no, Peter.
You've, you know, disappointed us several times.
We're going to leave it behind.
And I think it's perfectly in line with this teacher, by the way.
He's very how would you describe him, Fringy?
He's a moron.
Oh, he he's not very assertive, I'd say.
He's kind of like he's he's
yeah, a little bit weak, especially when in Far From Home, you find out that.
Lied about getting snapped so that she could put another guy.
It's almost like he would make a very unsatisfying protagonist.
Oh, probably. Yeah, probably.
Objectively so.
Possibly. Depending on if his films are.
Depends. Yeah.
Welcome back, everyone.
Hey, welcome back, Peter.
Flash, you're back to first alternate.
What? But being self-aware does not excuse the flawed hand.
If I take a shit on the Spider-Man toy.
You know what we call that?
We call that a web-slinging ass-kicking and flush it down the toilet.
Very funny, you douchebag.
But the truth is, I still clog the fucking toilet.
I don't think that would clog the toilet.
No, no, but the lesson is that he does clog the toilet.
I'm trying to understand his analogy here.
I think I think what he's I think what he's saying is, OK, so I clog the toilet
and then I'm like, whoops.
It's like, yeah, OK, funny.
But the toilet still clogs.
Yeah, yeah. That's the point he's trying to make.
Yeah, like making a joke out of something dumb doesn't change the fact that it was.
No, it's kind of the same argument.
I think, you know, like how the movies don't be like, week, week, nudge, nudge.
This is formulaic and cliche.
It's like, yeah, yeah, funny, but it's still formulaic and cliche.
And even though you've yeah, man, my issue is that I don't agree
that it's a flaw at the base.
It's just like a it could have gone either way sort of thing.
But the truth is, I still clog the fucking toilet.
You see what I'm getting at?
You could argue that Liz leaving Midtown is a consequence,
but the movie makes it abundantly clear that Peter really only.
Yeah, it's almost like it's a high school crush.
So this is this is him arguing positive qualities to like somebody.
So this is him arguing the point then.
I don't know why he didn't put this earlier.
But yeah, let's listen to this in full.
So why is people going to get very upset?
Spider-Man is a sensitive topic.
We've we've listened to points in half across all of the fat,
but we can't do it with Spider-Man.
And I think we start angry.
And I know that we probably can't do it with Godzilla as well.
We'll be careful if we ever cover a Godzilla video.
Go listen to him for you.
You see what I'm getting at?
You could argue that Liz leaving Midtown is a consequence,
but the movie makes it abundantly clear that Peter really only likes her
because she's pretty and smart.
He doesn't even know her.
He knows pretty much nothing about her.
She's just his first crush, which sounds pretty significant for a high schooler.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think high schoolers think way too hard about,
you know, what they're feeling.
They just feel it and they just got to jump in.
I don't know.
He says he doesn't know anything about her.
It's like, yeah, that's why he wants to get to know her.
Yeah, exactly.
He's trying to get like with her to get to know her better.
Right.
Just the fact that she's pretty smart and obviously kind and a nice person.
That's definitely enough.
Like to be interested in someone like what?
But I guess she'll show up like what's he supposed to do?
Stock the shit out of her and then get they needed to know each other for longer
before she was taken away.
I think is his point.
I don't agree that that require is required to represent a consequence.
Yeah, nothing about her.
She's just his first crush, which works great in keeping the light high schooler tone.
But Liz and her relationship to Peter carries almost no emotional weight.
Compare the humor.
Yeah, I disagree.
The idea of it having no emotional weight for a teenager who has a crush on a girl
who has now left school.
But he is comparing it to something that he feels had far more emotional weight.
And therefore, the homecoming version is worse in theory.
But that would be a change of argument.
I thought that this section was on no consequences, not no consequences,
no significant consequences by comparison to a different story.
It sounds like he is changing an argument.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, why this is bad.
And the end, it's that there was no emotional weight in their relationship.
I might concede the second argument, but not the first as a lot of saying.
Compare the humorous lack of consequences and homecoming to the humorous abundance of
consequences in Spider-Man 2.
Everything Peter does in Spidey 2 and the Raimi trilogy and the spectacular Spider-Man
cartoon in the 90s Spider-Man show from your childhood and that really dope MTV show and
in the comics has consequences.
Not everything, but I think he's saying he's referring that there's far more
and he feels that the consequences are not as large as they should have been in homecoming.
I mean, this is a small-staged story, though.
Um, isn't he like, like it's so the idea of like a consequence is permanent.
The end of Spider-Man, Raimi Spider-Man 1, he chooses not to be with Mary Jane.
The second one, he ends up with her.
And the third one, is it ambiguous?
I can't remember.
The third one, if I remember, has been a while.
It was kind of, uh, they were on good terms, but not going out.
And I expected that was to set up his other relationships with like, you know,
Gwen Stacy or Betty Brant or old black cat, even any number of, he has a lot of girls.
He goes through old Parker.
And so you got to put Mary Jane on the back burner to get to them.
It's just that the thing is, he just keeps framing it in a way that says that
homecoming has zero, absolutely zero consequences when that's just not true.
He's going to the other film saying like, there are consequences, but it's like, well,
just because somebody just doesn't die all the time, doesn't mean the consequences.
There's a suit and an implication when he said everything's fine.
Like he said that like four times.
It's like, no, no, they're not.
Let's give him a bone and say what if he's saying that they aren't as large as they should have been
and as a result had less emotional impact on your, I guess, reaction to the story.
I could potentially concede that.
What it should have though, like that's yeah, that's a problem.
Well, I mean, this is the thing.
If a story does have more emotional impact, you generally regard it as a superior.
I guess, I guess think about, so in The Dark Knight, you have,
you have two scenes that I think are probably a good example.
So you have the scene where the Joker has the two boats ribbed with explosives.
And the idea is that, you know, he wants to convince one group to blow up the other group
and it's like, that's pretty high stakes.
There are thousands, you know, there are hundreds of people on these boats,
a lot of civilians.
I mean, and then you got the prisons on the other one.
And then you have the scene with Harvey Dent.
That's incredibly tense and it's only really involving three or four people.
And yet the stakes are really high because of the personal attachment.
Bigger doesn't necessarily mean higher stakes.
You can have things that have less people involved, you know,
like, like less of a consequence on a smaller number of people.
But still, I think you would agree with that's what I mean.
It's like, because, because his reference was like the relationship he had with, was it Liz?
Oh, right.
But it's also the other stuff, like nobody on the
diet in the elevator or anything like that.
To have higher stakes doesn't necessarily mean them to be larger, more lives are at risk.
I like to have a better conflict can simply be there's more moral implications involved
with the conflict.
It resonates deeper with the audience.
You like the character whose life is at stake much more and things like that.
And so I do feel that the relationship or at least Peter's investment,
say in Mary Jane in the Raimi films was much greater than,
you know, the relationship Peter has with Liz.
And so I think that's valid here.
I don't really get the impression that the relationship with Liz is like the
foremost, most important thing.
Like it's a part of the story, but I'd say the bigger focus is on the
trying to, you know, impress Tony or trying to be an avenger and stuff like that.
Well, I don't know.
Like if it is important, yeah,
like the fact that Peter has to abandon this girl to save the, you know, the world,
not the world, but just to stop vulture.
That would have had far more impact if more was invested in the relationship and if it
was going to really hit him harder.
And that is, you know, you need to take more time to establish that relationship
between the two and stuff and everything.
But I think that is a valid enough thing to say that that scene could have been
improved upon if the relationship was stronger or your, the emotional impact
or resonance from Peter's actions would have been greater.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't think the film really needed to be any longer achieved what it needed to
achieve in the time that it had.
Oh, I don't know.
Like, I mean, if a film could have been better and you can identify areas where
there was room for improvement, I feel what I mean is I don't think it could have been,
I don't think it should have been any longer.
Like, well, all of the scenes in the film have a purpose.
Every scene has a purpose because characters keep coming back.
Like, um, when you see, uh, it's Donald Glover's character.
He plays on Miles Morales' Oh, Aaron, Aaron Davis, because he, even in that scene with
the weapons, it's like, he's in that scene.
He comes back later.
Um, sorry.
I do want to take back what I said before in response to you.
Uh, if, if you wanted to add something that increased the length of the film,
that simply would have improved the quality of the film.
I say, sure.
I go, oh, there's obviously a limit.
There's obviously a limit.
I don't care.
Could we feasibly always increase the stakes and potentially the emotional, uh,
payoff, if you will, like of a better term.
Um, it's tricky because to do that, you do need to take the time to establish certain
things to reach that point.
Like if you want the relationship to be stronger between these two characters,
you need to have the right story beats and scenes to get you there.
And so sometimes you do need to try and make a balance as to what's, what's better,
what will have the greater result versus what will take too much time,
what might bog down the pacing and such.
And so you just need to try and find the best balance between them all
to get the best result possible.
Um, and I think it will be giving the movie too much credit to say that
there's no way in which it could have been improved upon.
I think most movies you could.
Yeah, films can be improved.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, but to clarify, so like we would, we would all agree that the stakes of
infinity war are higher than that of the Avengers in terms of the world scale,
like just by sheer numbers.
Yeah.
Um, but would it be,
would it not be a form of what aboutism to say Avengers would have been improved
if the threat was universe wide or even earth wide,
as opposed to just New York in that moment,
even though technically that is worldwide.
Cause if they just,
maybe, I mean, my own experience with trying to get, uh,
an audience invested in stakes is to try and create some type of connection with it.
And, um, uh, and so you can have people far more emotionally invested in a story
where one life is at risk if they really care about the character.
Then the whole world.
Uh, and so
I guess, um, civil war is probably a good example of that though,
because fight is bigger and broad.
It has larger implications on the world because of,
you know, the effect that it has on the accords and all that.
But the fight between Tony cap and Bucky is absolutely the more intense fight
because of the personal stakes,
even though it's really one person's life at stake in that battle or two people, I guess.
Yeah.
It's always a matter of, yeah, it's always a matter of identifying with the character.
And so to bring it back, like I said,
I felt that everything was scaled down in homecoming.
And I suppose the argument would be the,
if they had established Liz and Peter's relationship in a stronger manner,
the payoff of having her being taken away from him would have been stronger.
I wouldn't disagree with that.
Is that a change of consequence though?
I guess it would be because he'd be,
he'd be personally more invested in who would that be the argument?
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I suppose.
And he is using the point of reference of Spider-Man 2,
which he feels has far more emotional investment.
I mean, he argued almost.
What's at stake?
He argued a lot of iterations.
Obviously, I haven't got experience enough in all of them to be able to question it.
When he said that, you know, Spider-Man always has consequences in every,
like obviously not, but I think it's trying to say in most instances,
when Spider-Man is written well,
it's usually playing on that theme of power responsibility.
Will he do the right thing versus how it affects his life and stuff?
And those stories end up being really, you know, great, like just phenomenal.
And I, I was about to think as well,
I think there's an argument to be made that throughout the film,
every time he tries to start up and develop his relationship with Liz,
it is subverted by his interests in being Spider-Man.
Like, um, the parties is first shot in because they obviously establish in the gym where they're
like, we want to, you know, if anyone has a shot with Liz, it's you.
Cause like, you know, he's, he's Spider-Man.
And then it's like his shot to impress her and get to know her and potentially be her
boyfriend is ruined by him being Spider-Man in the, in the party in the pool bit.
And then finally with homecoming,
which is probably the most significant cause he's literally her date.
Like that would, that's his,
Yeah, that's an interesting, it's an interesting counter that
if you're trying to explain why he wasn't able to have that relationship with him,
it's because of him being Spider-Man.
That's interesting.
Well, I mean, that's, I figured that was what the, what was happening constantly.
Like Spider-Man gets in the way of him being able to do things.
And then when Spider-Man is safe from him, like when Tony takes the suit and he's focused in,
things start going well.
He gets to talk to Liz.
He secures the date.
He's doing better in school, hanging out with Ned, you know what I mean?
It's an explanation, but it doesn't mean that they couldn't have
established a closer relationship in spite of the issues he runs into.
Well, I suppose when you think of Far From Home coming afterwards,
MJ is somebody that he's got more in common with
because she's also a little bit reclusive, a bit different.
It's clear that Liz long-term is not super important because she is the high school,
you know, the first high school crush, but it's important to him in this movie.
Yeah.
As a character, she's not very interesting for me.
Oh, sure.
Yeah, I probably agree.
She's fairly, you know, one-dimensional.
But I guess it's about how they allocate time and what they're trying to focus in on.
And then I guess you can even see it in the warehouse scene where he's talking to Karen
and she's like, oh, who's Liz?
It's like, oh, you know, she's great.
And he doesn't really say that much beyond what was said before.
She's pretty and smart.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah, you're right.
He doesn't know much about her.
Uh, so we're good to move on.
Yeah, yes.
All right.
Three, two, one.
One of the fundamental characteristics of Peter Parker is that he can't catch a break.
Everything goes wrong in his life.
Even if he makes the right choice, even if he makes the hard choice, his life still sucks.
That's what's endearing on Peter Parker.
So I wouldn't say I would say this is a result of a fundamental characteristic,
not a fundamental characteristic that you can subvert if it works in the plot.
Yeah, I think there are times in which you can have things go his way and his life could be fine
and still be true to the true theme of Spider-Man, in my opinion,
which is a great power comes great responsibility in being a aspirational,
heroic figure.
Those are the core elements of Spider-Man that I feel that you can establish by
making an appeal to previous continuity or not just continuity, previous works.
So yeah, I'm not sure I'm on board with this one, that he has to like life always has to suck for
him.
Generally, that is a common element that makes for great stories.
I fully agree.
But I don't think that means you can't have a good Spider-Man story where things start to go his way.
Well, I guess, you know, it's you're kind of limiting yourself.
I think in the comics, he started his own company at some point, like Parker Industries.
I don't think I don't think that what has that?
Oh, yeah, I mean, yeah, that's fine.
But what I mean is, it's, it's a little bit restrictive to say that he, I prefer your
interpretation of it where like him not being able to catch a break is just a consequence of,
I guess, his principles or his motivations.
Whereas I think saying, well, he can't catch a break.
It's like, well, so I can't do stories where he does catch a break.
And it's funny, he says this because in Far From Home, he's literally on break and he can't
catch a break.
So I Far From Home is a good Spider-Man movie.
I put his hearts off.
Yeah, I think too.
Yeah, well, yeah, I know the other thing too is like, aside from the social capital thing,
I guess the other thing that would make a really good Peter Parker is the fact that
he's a total nerd and that like, he's just a little socially awkward because of because
he's so frickin smart.
You know, so I think that's, you know, just kind of just just just kind of adding to his
question, I suppose.
And he is definitely like, socially awkward in this movie.
Absolutely.
I'm totally not the person to ask, but my one would have been he has to deal with the
dichotomy of maintaining Spider-Man and Peter Parker.
I thought that was sort of the core.
Yeah, that's another.
That is the core.
Yeah, but I guess like, when it comes down to it, it's like, that's, that's how he would start
out, but I don't think it would probably be just a little strange for him to constantly
be struggling with it, like, well into his like, mid to late 20s, you know, you would
think he would have figured it out.
With the beginning of his character, it's a very strong, important part.
But one of the reasons why I find it's important is because it makes the point in which where he
doesn't need to struggle as much between those two things very satisfying, like when he finally
reveals his identity to Mary Jane in like, I remember Ultimate Spider-Man and stuff.
It's actually a great scene, great comic book scene where, you know, she is on the bed and
she cracks up laughing because she doesn't believe him.
And then, and then in the later stories, she starts to try and help him out, balance that
dichotomy.
And it becomes an active, interesting thing where she tries to make excuses for him to
his teachers and stuff.
And he has like someone fighting in his corner now.
And that enhances the story in a different way.
But it isn't restricted to having to remain in that that thing.
I mean, he eventually marries Mary Jane and she certainly knows him.
And then he has to balance, you know, taking care of her as his wife while being Spider-Man.
And so yeah, that's that's exactly what I mean.
It's like when when you set a very restrictive rules on what must be done, you're kind of
limiting ways with which you can experiment with the character and do different things
and explore.
He considers this a core element.
And I'm sure Shad would argue that there are core elements you need to maintain.
Yeah, but this isn't one of them.
This is an actual byproduct, but you can go against it and not betray what Spider-Man is.
Parker is that he can't catch a break.
Everything goes wrong in his life.
Even if he makes the right choice, even if he makes the hard choice, his life still sucks.
That's what's endearing about Peter Parker.
He still chooses to be Spider-Man, even if the consequences of being him outweigh the benefits.
Peter Parker is us.
His entire purpose as a character was to be relatable to the reader, a dorky,
nerdy outcast with a good heart.
I won't make him the handsomest guy in the world or the strongest.
You know, a dorky, nerdy outcast with a good heart.
I wouldn't say that applies to Tom Holland in Homecoming.
What do you why?
I don't know.
Wait, what do you think I said?
You said it doesn't.
No, I said it does.
No, it doesn't.
Oh, I thought you said doesn't.
I agree with you.
Sorry, sorry.
If I said it doesn't, I misspoke.
I meant to say it doesn't.
Well, this is part of the reason why I've never really been on board entirely with the
it's a bad adaptation.
I watch and I'm like, yeah, it seems like Spider-Man to me in ways that are important.
Not in all the ways, like as in, you know,
accurate to the comics, but in ways that are important.
Good heart, nice person, even though he makes mistakes
and that he wants to do the right thing.
I guess it's more of a.
I don't know.
No, I don't know, right?
Yeah, that's why I sort of was trying to head.
Yeah, but I say, I mean, that's that we'll talk about that later.
So I won't delve into that too much.
By the way, miss you, Stan Dunblat.
Yeah.
Yes, Rip Stanley.
I do like Stanley's philosophy, though, on on Spider-Man and his explanation.
You know, like Spider-Man is the every man.
He's the he's not the big, you know, popular handsome.
He's just a normal guy who's trying to do his best.
And that's probably that's the reason why Spider-Man is so liked by people.
Yeah, that can be taken too far, because at the same time, he is very noble.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
Yes, I would say superhumanly noble and stuff.
And so he has qualities that transcend the average person.
But it has exactly around him in the world as well makes him so compelling because you can relate
to him.
And honestly, it becomes a very great role model because you see this person who's like you,
who is there now making such noble decisions makes it made me as a kid want to be like that.
I want to be that noble.
I want to be Tom Holland is that every man that received
Tony Stark, except for the suit that he made.
You're a kind of man.
Oh, yeah.
No, it was the Everett Tony art, like Tom Holland, the every man who gets a suit from
Tony Stark or gets everything from Tony Stark.
But it's like, he had his own suit for six months, and then he got his suit taken away.
And then he still went off to vulture.
No, no, no, like, so I get what they say with this argument here that the fact that
he does get a really powerful suit can work against the idea of him kind of struggling
and, you know, going on his own and stuff like that.
It doesn't subvert it completely.
That might be where people take it too far.
You can still have a character who is the every man and deals with regular things.
He's still a teenager dealing with crap and being unpopular.
That doesn't change by the fact he has a really good suit.
But it can work against the conflicts he runs into and the struggles he has to deal with,
because it takes away just one of those hurdles he generally needs to leap over,
because now he has a good suit.
So that's kind of I feel where the criticism is.
Yeah, but there's enough stuff that you see in the movie that shows that he he's pretty
savvy.
Like when he made shooters in the lab, you see how he does it.
It's like, oh, well, there's a process there.
And in Civil War, you saw how he explained the whole purpose of his little goggles,
you know, to help him focus in and stuff like that.
There's enough you see enough of him being injured.
Like, and the fact that he hacks into the suit as well,
you can see enough instances that he knows how to do things.
And the whole point of the movie is that he doesn't need the suit.
Well, I actually remember I like the fact he gets the suit,
because with all his skills, being a master seems seems,
I was gonna say seamstress.
How do you say the male version of seamstress?
Seaman?
There you go.
That was like that's never been a prominent element of his skill set yet.
He suddenly had it to make this phenomenal suit, and then it never comes up again.
Like that's always been a little
Yeah, like, I mean, the reality is, like, I would highly doubt,
you know, Toby McGuire would be able to build that suit in his house.
You know what I mean?
It's like, the homemade suit in Homecoming,
I is way more believable as a suit that a kid could make at home.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's a cool suit.
I really like the other criticism.
Yeah.
The other criticism of the suit is the the internal computer.
Karen.
Yeah, Karen.
The thing is, though, like, it does.
I'm not sure if you pointed this out to me more or tell me if you did.
You can take credit for it if you want.
That serves a narrative purpose where in the comic books,
Peter Parker is always thinking to himself, like thought bubbles are everywhere.
And whenever you make a movie, you run into that struggle and trying to adapt
literature because voicing thought on in movie can be really hard.
They tried to do it in June, and it comes off really weird
by having people's, you know, incorporeal voice.
Do they have like the breathy sound effect or whatever?
It's like, I wonder what I think.
You know, that's like, it can be really jarring in the film in film and stuff.
And so the Karen, you know, computer is serving a narrative point narrative
purpose in enabling him to voice his thoughts in a more realistic, natural way.
So we get the Peter Parker thinking to himself element without it being
this disembodied voice is get to speak to someone.
And and I actually think that's successful that that works.
It serves a purpose in achieving that.
And so I think it's a good argument against the Karen computer.
Yeah, I mean, I think I agree that in a model in in live action film,
it's it's a lot easier to do an animation.
I mean, no, that has like, yeah, ages and ages of in a model.
But it's because you can hit pause and it's not too distracting words.
And live action things need to move normally.
Well, well, yeah, like, because in the in the cartoon, Spider-Man is
Yeah, so full of exactly.
But has anyone here watched the old June where they're thinking to himself
all the time and how weird it comes off?
I haven't known old June.
There's a film called June.
Is it June?
Oh, June, June, June.
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
Weird pronunciation.
Well, it's like, I thought you said the old June.
And I was picturing like an old lady named June.
The ducks and I get it.
Okay, guys, June, the old June with the in a monologue always happening.
It's weird.
It comes off so strange.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't really I don't care too much for the inner monologue types,
especially throughout the whole thing.
Like, I get sort of why they did it in the original.
It's because of the books.
Well, sorry, I'm still talking about June because June, the books are written
in a third person omniscient and characters thoughts are being voiced all the time.
Like, if you're writing in third person limited, the narration is always
from a single perspective, even though it's in third person.
But with omniscient, it's no holds bar.
And that's one of the classic kind of examples of a book effectively
written in third person omniscient.
But translating that effectively into film, when you have so many thoughts
happening among so many different characters in a given scene,
it's really hard to convey those scenes the same way or convey the same information.
In a film that was conveyed in the book because of the different format.
It can be tricky.
And that's why they opted for it.
Biometric and chat.
You're thinking of Juno, the movie with the pregnant teenager.
Yeah, exactly.
I was just about to take that.
Leave me alone.
I won't make him the handsomest guy in the world or the strongest.
I won't make him rich.
Isn't Spider-Man phenomenally strong in the comics?
He's not as strong as Thor or anything like that.
He can pick up a card and throw it.
He can stop a train.
Yeah, his strength level is impressive.
It's high, but it's not like Superman playing.
Yeah, it's generally on...
Actually, it's a bit higher than Captain America.
And, but yeah, nowhere near Thor or Hulk.
Like, not even close.
Right.
We'll have money worries.
I can relate to that because I had money problems in those days.
Yeah, so I guess he's trying to highlight here that he's friends with Tony Stark,
a billionaire therefore.
He cannot have money woes, which is a fundamental issue because Spider-Man is supposed to.
Well, what do you guys think?
I'd say the money woes is like tied...
It's not a thing that is...
It's sort of tied to the other problems, right?
Of him just being a normal person.
It's not really the money problems in themselves.
It's the normal problems sort of thing.
Well, a lot of it has to do with his age too.
He can't even work it for you.
Yeah, exactly.
He's too young to have money problems.
Yeah, so I do admit that it takes away one of the points of conflict in the story
by having access to a personal jet that can fly in on a call
and then make you a new suit when you need it.
All right.
So that's a pretty darn high end luxury that he has access to.
And as a result, it takes away one of the points of conflict that Spider-Man
has struggled with in many stories, which can come across...
Which were very satisfying and stuff.
And so because of that, you have less to work with narratively
to make an effective Spider-Man story.
I wouldn't say it means you can't make an effective Spider-Man story
because of that absence.
Yeah, it's not fundamental yet.
It's essential to Peter's character, somebody said.
You see what I mean when I'm talking about finding what Spider-Man is?
People have different opinions on it.
No, no, see, I would say generally his poverty
is a result of his fundamental characteristics once again
because he spends so much time being Spider-Man,
he isn't able to hold down a job and he can't get enough money
to pay the bills and stuff.
And that's the natural results.
But you do not subvert who this character is,
who Spider-Man is by having Tony Stark come in and give him money.
He can still be true to those characteristics.
It loses a point of conflict that you can explore in the story,
which I fully admit.
And so is something missing in that sense?
Yes, it doesn't necessarily mean that it will be a inferior Spider-Man movie
as a result if you stay true to what Spider-Man is
and you have a good story.
It just means it's one of those elements
that are generally a result of these characteristics that...
I guess my thing would be that as it's set up now,
it's not impossible to do it.
You can just be in a situation...
That's also true.
In the Spider-Man video game,
it's like he's worked...
Is that a spoiler?
He's working with a scientist...
If it's, I haven't played the video game.
Okay, yeah, no.
He's working with a scientist and he's not making that...
I didn't know he was going to work with a scientist.
You've ruined the whole thing for me.
Wow.
Fuck, he knows the ending now too.
He's working with a scientist whose name I won't mention.
And it's mentioned many times that he could easily take up a job
with a co-op and get paid a lot more.
And he's like, yeah, but this is what I want to do.
This is good work that we're doing.
So I don't really...
You can still have him have money problems.
You can just have it be...
He will turn down office for money.
He won't...
If Stark says, here's a big check, he's like,
no, I can't accept that.
You know?
It would need to be logically consistent.
Like if Stark said, I want to give you a million dollars.
Gee, I don't wonder what reason would he turn that down.
Oh, I think you would find that very helpful.
I don't exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, the comic says, I can't.
Sorry, Stark.
But the thing of it is, it's all like,
I know that he was broke as hell in the other versions and everything like that,
but that's because he was kind of like the only one of his kind.
He was a superhero, but nobody else was backing him.
And therefore, it's like, who is going to hire the fucking superhero?
But right here, we have the Avengers who are superheroes.
They're going to recognize him,
and they're going to want him on their team.
And that's why they're going to help him out.
And that's why Stark's involved.
And that's why things the way they are.
It would be really ridiculous for the Avengers to be in this world
and for them to just completely ignore Spider-Man
and for having to be a broke ass bitch, you know?
And you probably, it's a thing where it's like,
if you want Spider-Man to be in Avengers Infinity War,
you know, like, you got it.
This has to happen.
See, that point is good.
You do have to structure the narrative to achieve certain ends.
And if you want Spider-Man to be involved in Infinity War,
well, having said that, though, I'm not sure that means one or the other.
I think they could have it where Tony Stark isn't in his court
and that, you know, the Avengers don't fully trust Spider-Man
because he's generally like in the public eye.
They don't know if he's a villain or if he's legit.
And that has come up in the comic books.
Like, if I remember correctly,
I know purists might really take issue with me if I'm wrong here.
But I have a memory of like Avengers being reluctant to recruit Spider-Man
because they weren't sure about him.
They just didn't, you know.
Yeah, it happens.
It's especially a more street level hero thing.
Like, we're dead and there have been a lot of it.
Yeah, but even when they're reluctant to recruit him,
when something big hits the fan, they're happy with anyone's help.
And Spider-Man comes along and he's involved in the fight.
And they're like, look, we're not sure about you,
but we're glad you're fighting with us.
And then afterwards, maybe that might change our opinion
on recruiting you and stuff.
And so, yeah, I think the story could have been done the opposite way
without him being helped by, you know, Iron Man.
Would it have been better?
Well, they have more to work with in establishing plot,
conflict and stuff with Spider-Man.
And that is a very satisfying story when his life is just sucking on multiple levels,
not just a couple, because of him being Spider-Man
and seeing him be choosing the right path,
you know, irrespective of how it's ruining his life,
is a very noble, satisfying narrative.
So I don't know.
Well, it's about what's going to come after him though.
You know, they've really put themselves in a situation where
I'd actually be very disappointed if they didn't make that a big point,
that his real life is just really detrimental.
And somebody made a great point.
Daredevil needs to be in the next Spider-Man movie defending him.
Yeah, that sounds about right to me.
I'm not biased at all, guys.
I'm not biased at all for Daredevil.
Not at all, not one bit.
The lack of a period for Daredevil,
who exists in New York where Spider-Man is always annoying,
but I've even heard that they might be scrubbing the Netflix marvels from the MCU continuity.
Bringing, I think you'll accept that if it means that you get to have him in the MCU, right?
Well, yeah, but wouldn't it just be good
if you could have Charlie Cox as Daredevil in the MCU?
That seems like the best thing to do.
But the iron fist and defending son.
Yeah, I know, I know, I know, I know, they did.
Oh my goodness.
My view was that all of the shows except for Daredevil, right?
Like, okay to terrible.
Yeah, like, well, they might use Charlie Cox.
They might use him.
They might.
I think it would be.
We could, it could be the same thing as a certain J. Jonah.
That's not a spoiler because we're talking about Far From Home as well in the stream.
Yeah, it could work.
I guess the thing is, out of that five year time jump,
that had to be like, cool.
So I guess Daredevil got snapped.
Otherwise, this makes things really difficult.
Yeah, and if they were to say that they're going to redo Daredevil,
have his own solo movie after like Spider-Man.
Yeah, I think I care about that.
Well, I was going to say that that would decanonize the show, wouldn't it?
But the show would still exist in my mind and in my mind.
Of course, of course.
I just find that interesting that that means they will be picking and choosing
which shows are in canon or not, which is interesting.
I mean, I guess I'm not against them doing that, to be honest with you.
Like, I don't decanonize Iron Fist.
I think it's what most people say.
Yes.
The thing is, it's like Luke Cage was also not very good.
And Jessica, actually, hold on.
Luke Cage was bad.
Jessica Jones wasn't, well, that wasn't bad.
Jessica Jones was okay to good.
Iron Fist was a dumpster fire of epic proportions.
Holy crap.
Does anyone like that show?
I watched both seasons for some reason.
I understand why Shad, he's such an ineffective,
ineffectual protagonist.
He lurches from one disaster to the other and he's indecisive.
He can't figure out what his motivation is or what he should be doing.
This is, I don't care if this is a spoiler, right?
So, in Iron Fist, the whole thing is he had to go to Kam Lan.
He trained and then he fought a dragon.
And when he killed the dragon, he got the Iron Fist.
So, he is worthy of the Iron Fist by virtue of the fact that he has it.
He is worthy of it.
But he decides in season two, like, oh, actually, I'm not worthy of this.
I'm going to give it to my girlfriend.
And then she gets the Iron Fist from him.
Oh, dude.
Oh, dude.
I know that in Luke Cage, it's another issue of, like, Fudged.
This is why Daredevil works so much better.
He's got a very clearly defined motivations and the conflict is understandable,
conveyed and repeated many times throughout the films.
Not the films, the movies, where it's on.
Yeah, it's also the pacing and plot structure.
Like, I don't know who took a hold of
Iron Fist, but how many episodes does he just spend in a mental asylum?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Actually, I find this funny, this topic, because Daredevil for me is my favorite
character.
I wonder how I would react to a Daredevil movie where he's not a ninja.
Like, a Daredevil way, he's dressed like a frog for his reasons.
He's dressed like a frog he can see.
And he's not a lawyer.
He's a cop, maybe.
He's a noose.
You know, and he I don't know, he's in love with Foggy.
You know, Foggy is like hot.
The truth, the true test of Freaky's principles.
It probably would be the test.
Yeah, it would be the real test.
Anyway, let's kick on.
Yeah, we got a frog devil.
Frog fist.
Frog devil.
The strongest.
I won't make him rich.
He'll have money worries.
I can relate to that because I had money problems in those days.
I said he won't be that popular.
I mean, it's not easy for him to get a girl.
He has to worry about getting dates.
And I.
Yeah, that seems unfair.
What about he gets Mary Jane in the Sam Raimi film.
And she denies Mary Jane.
She lives.
She lives right next door to the guy, too.
Yeah, he turns her down.
In the end, the Spider-Man one.
Yeah.
This is a strange argument.
Let's be a little more generous.
He goes through a lot of he comes in the comics.
I mean, look at fucking black cat.
Look at her.
And he gets her.
Freaky, are you objectifying black cat?
I like black cat a lot, actually.
She's more than the flesh, sir.
All right, we're done.
So, but he's obviously playing this to try and establish that these are
a fundamental characteristics of Peter Parker.
But I think it's pretty clear that these are the results of his fundamental characteristics.
And so, yeah, I've already mentioned my argument there, but big on thought.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, just, you know, he doesn't deny her in the second movie.
Obviously, I was just saying the first time it's not easy for him to get a girl.
He has to worry about getting dates.
And I figured that most of the kids or the teenagers or the young adults
who read those stories would be able to relate to that.
Because no, life isn't easy for anybody.
Really.
This is great.
Implication being that life is pretty easy for Peter in Homecoming.
Question mark.
Yeah.
Would that be a fair interpretation of what he just said?
He's still dealing with many issues that regular people do.
Absent, you know, one or two.
But that doesn't undermine what Spider-Man is.
And he was playing the clip that he was using when he said everything's fine.
So it's like, you know.
Like I said, I think it's a fair interpretation to say Hightop is saying that he's not facing
enough of enough issues in his life in Homecoming.
And I would argue that he's facing quite a few ones and some of them very significant.
Yep, especially for a 15 year old.
A poor kid.
Anybody, really.
This is great.
If you ditched your friends, would there be no consequences?
If you indirectly led the destruction of a corner.
Yeah.
So let's say, for example, Fringey was like,
I really want to meet up with you in London and then I agree to go with him.
I don't turn up and I tell him, yeah, someone was trying to kill me.
I think Fringey would be like, Jesus Christ, you okay?
But what if you couldn't tell him that?
Because to protect his own life.
Well, we have to do this in context.
He does tell Ned that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But if I didn't, if I couldn't tell Fringey that I would make up a good lie.
He was showing everyone there.
So I think he's referring to the, what was it?
The spelling bee.
Oh, the decathlon.
The decathlon.
Yeah.
That they forgive him for ditching him there and there.
I think it was a party, wasn't it?
Where he, because he's like, oh, it's not cool that you left me here.
And then, so, no, let's break that down a bit.
Like if they really felt they needed him to win, right?
And he's not there.
I would, and if I had a lot invested in that competition, I would be rightly ticked off.
That is not there.
And then if we won in spite of him, it is a natural response to expect that, well,
we don't really need him.
And would there be a reluctance to let him join in and be still a part of their study group?
I can agree with that.
It'd been cool if we had a bit of an awkward thing for him to having to get back into the team.
Yeah.
Sorry, this is valid.
Yeah.
This is a valid part.
I thought, well, let me go back.
I could have sworn, I thought he was referring to them separately and then to Ned separately,
but if he's referring to them as a whole, then fair enough.
Nope.
Life isn't easy for anybody, really.
This is great.
If you ditched your friends, would there be no consequences?
If you indirectly led to the destruction of a corner store,
would there be no consequences?
Hopefully the answer is, of course there would be consequences.
Yaddick.
Yeah.
So in fairness, he wasn't specifically referencing the Ned at the party one.
He did reference it earlier, though.
Yeah.
And did we agree that if that guy was in that shop, he should have died?
I mean, people have survived explosions.
It's not like with that.
He should be dead.
Well, it's likely that he would be dead, but if you had asked me, if you'd asked me how to
said he'd be dead.
Yeah, it's improbable, but not really impossible.
But the way he was standing up, it does kind of make it suspect like he didn't just get sawn
right.
Like if he, I can, I can totally, I can totally buy the cap being a
like if he ducked the sack and the laser started to approach his like he was like,
Oh, fuck.
I'm ducked.
Like, yeah, I guess he could survive it.
But there was fire everywhere and there was engulfed in flame at the.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm talking.
He's like, you know, he has like a counter, right?
Like, so if he's behind that ducking, maybe because he comes out with like all subtle
over him.
This was not like fire didn't hit him.
Yeah, it would have been nice to at least see him duck and everything would be fine.
Yeah, I think he should be dead.
That's a weird conclusion.
But yes, I think he should be dead.
Sure is.
Of course, there would be consequences.
Yeah, Dick.
Because consequences are real consequences are what ground the spectacular nature of
Spider-Man consequences or make us believe in the man aspect of Spider-Man.
All that being said, it is important to acknowledge that Peter does indeed face
one real big consequence when he loses the suit by trying to do the right thing.
See, I'm interested in how he defines the big and small of consequences because the
biggest one IMO is having his true identity revealed to vulture.
Sorry, sorry.
We're seeing the scene and I think we should appreciate the fact that that boat is still
floating.
Why did he he said that Spider-Man gets the suit taken away for doing the right thing, but
Tony was trying to do the right.
Yeah, he was, but he did it the wrong way because the FBI were there.
It was being taken care of.
And he just was like, he just decided to do it anyway, even though Tony said that he was
looking into it.
Sorry, sorry.
Just like to try and break this down a bit with what he learns at the end of this movie.
Doesn't that reinforce his actions here that he should have tried even though he failed?
Because the thing is, the point of the film in our homecoming, it's like he has to act
because nobody knows what's happening.
Like it's presented right in front of him.
You know, he's about to do it and you need to stop him as opposed to this one where Tony's
like, yeah, no, we're looking into it.
We're going to be on to it.
So, you know, stay out of it.
And then he just goes anyway, like in the defense of the people who criticize this,
that was a flippant kind of it came off as just brushing him off.
I am sorry.
Yeah, yeah.
It's fair that Peter thought.
Oh, I think I think Peter is completely justified in thinking this was the right
thing to do.
Yes.
But there's other things to consider, I suppose, other other perspectives.
And then you find out it's less.
It's still important.
It's less about what he did and more about why he was doing it,
which was I want to be an Avenger.
I want to be an Iron Man.
I want to be like you.
Yeah.
Good point.
Yeah, aspect of spider that that kind of goal is a subversion.
And I would say a lesser, worser interpretation of the Spider-Man character.
Yeah, but the idea in the story is that he is misguided for behaving this way.
Yeah, the film condemns him for that attitude.
Yeah.
Like the film wants him to want to be Spider-Man.
And that's where he's at the end.
Yeah, but people's criticism is that that should already be established as Spider-Man.
Like that's generally taken, you know, sorted out in the first act of any Spider-Man
story.
And then we get to see the Spider-Man first act of a three act Spider-Man trilogy.
Well, see, like this is where my criticism comes in, because it came home more fully
and far from home that he's still going through an origin story to establish who he is.
And that annoys me because no, it's I don't really, I'm not sure I'd say it's an origin
story, but more so like the stories that lead up to him being in the position where he is
more recognizable as Spider-Man.
I don't know if I'd call that an origin story, though.
It's just like his first couple of seasons or something like that, you know what I mean?
But see, he's still making new mistakes and especially in Far From Home.
And we'll definitely do it, don't worry.
It works against him as a effective hero protagonist.
We might actually, depending on the availability of everybody,
we're probably gonna have to split this into two episodes because I can't.
I can't be free ready to argue for everybody, I'm not even getting to it.
So like having Vulture find out he's Peter thanks to his showboating as Spider-Man and
having his entire family threatened, I would consider that probably a bigger
consequence than losing the suit.
What do you guys reckon?
Sorry, what was the bigger consequence again?
So I would personally stake that the bigger consequence than this losing the suit was
having Vulture find out that he is Spider-Man thanks to his showboating as Spider-Man,
or at least the intention to do that.
And it resulting in Vulture threatening all the people that he loves.
But hang on, did Vulture find out he was Spider-Man from this scene?
No, he found out from the other scenes that we...
Yeah, so then I guess he's talking about the consequence of this scene.
Oh, I thought he was talking about as a whole in the film.
I think what he's saying is the main consequence is him losing the suit
because of their scene here.
Yeah, no, and I'm saying the main consequence in the movie.
I thought he was positing that losing the suit is the biggest consequence in the film.
Yeah, he is.
Let's break down that.
So you think Vulture would not have found out who Spider-Man was if he was trying to be
Spider-Man without the intent of trying to be an Avenger?
If he never used Spider-Man to try and impress people,
I don't know what Vulture would have based it on entirely,
because a lot of the connective dots from Liz are about how he came to her house
because he's friends with Spider-Man.
He was going to show him, but then he mysteriously disappeared.
Like if he never went to that party...
Really?
What did he say that?
Well, what happened in the scene when they're in the car?
I need to watch the car ride again, because, you know...
That is a good scene to have re-watched.
Yeah, because that's a really good scene.
It is a great scene.
Great lighting, great cinematography, great acting.
But yeah, no, there's a...
At the beginning, she said something like,
oh, the Stark internship.
And then Vulture's like, oh, wow, it's only Stark.
And then he says, oh, well, I thought it was art.
I quit it because it was boring.
And then Liz says, but you got to hang out with Spider-Man,
to which, you know, Vulture's like, oh, shit, really?
What's he like?
And then he starts.
And then he goes like, I've heard your voice before, right?
Like, we know each other.
It's sort of where it goes from there.
Okay, because all those things there,
I feel could have played out just the same without Peter trying to be an Avenger.
Like, if he was just being true Spider-Man to who Spider-Man was and everything,
Vulture still could have found out who he was.
Oh, I agree that it's still possible,
but I'm saying that what happens in the film, if you follow the events,
then it's telling us that as a direct result of him having to try and reach that,
to gain more social capital while also showboating as Spider-Man has cost him hugely.
I assume it informs his decision to go after Vulture is the fact that Vulture said like,
you get involved in my business, I'll kill everyone you love.
It's just like, Jesus.
I'm not sure about the social capital having like,
I don't like a very defined kind of irrefutable consequence or negative consequence in the movie
that would have played out differently if he wasn't trying to get the capital.
I think you remember the scene where they're in the gym and they're doing
Liz says something like, oh, you know, Spider-Man is really cool.
And then Ned yells out Peter, no Spider-Man.
That's the reason why she mentioned Spider because then he's like,
I can try and get her at the, I can try and get her at the party.
Was that Ned doing this?
Oh yeah, but in fairness, yes.
Peter didn't want Ned to do that.
He didn't want to use Spider-Man.
But he banks on it.
He sort of played along with it though.
Yeah, he doesn't deny it.
All he had to do in that scenario is go, Ned's just screwing around.
Yeah, okay, good point.
But instead, he's like, yeah, I know Spider-Man.
I can bring him over.
And she's like, really?
He's like, yep.
Okay, good.
Well-parried chat.
And then, yes.
And then later on, I think it was after she says that he knows Spider-Man,
that Vulture starts thinking like, you sound familiar.
You know what I mean?
Like it gets him thinking.
It gets his mind racing.
He wouldn't have figured if they didn't bring that up.
Yeah, so the biggest piece of evidence is saying, you're really close with Spider-Man.
It's like, he is.
I love that car ride.
It's so good.
It's great.
It's important to acknowledge that Peter does indeed face one real big consequence.
When he loses the suit by trying to do the right thing,
which leads me to the second big reason why Homecoming is a bad Spider-Man movie, the suit.
Hey, remember that billionaire superhero that reluctantly takes on a high school protege?
The high school protege is gifted with this really dope high-tech suit.
The suit has a bunch of cool features, including a tracker in it,
so that the paranoid billionaire hero can keep an eye on the new wise-cracking hero.
The protagonist's dilemma is to become his own hero
instead of living up to the mantle of the original.
Yeah, me too.
I mean, I think there's more than one way to tell that story.
Yeah, I've already shared my thoughts on the whole suit thing.
And to me, it actually answers a slight, you know, issue, pothole already.
And I don't think it undermines the core of what the Spider-Man character is.
So yeah, I'm not as on board with the whole suit criticism.
I guess, is this more the mentor thing as well?
I don't know, because he's kind of conflated them.
He says he's talking about the suit, but he's mainly talking about similarities
between Batman Beyond and Spider-Man Homecoming in terms of the mentor-mentee thing.
I guess we'll have to see how he develops this.
It seems like you're making the point that it's been done before.
Aye, the point that it's been done before.
I was just going to say, I'm not saying he's saying this,
but does it make the film any worse that it shares a lot of similarities with Batman Beyond?
Well, Batman Beyond is a good show, so I took it.
It is a good show.
The comparison could actually be used to try and establish that as an improvement.
I don't know, we'll see.
I'm supposed to become his own here instead of living up to the mantle of the original.
Yeah, me too.
Spider-Man is not Batman Beyond.
Spider-Man should not have an AI that he can talk to.
Yes, I do understand the-
Okay, Amos.
So first of all, it's a false equivalence by saying Spider-Man has a suit he is then
equivalent to Batman Beyond.
No, there are many differences still.
I've already even talked about the reason why I feel the computer having someone to talk to
is a very useful narrative tool to get a very Spider-Man-esque thing that exists in the comics
into the movie.
You're supposed to be arguing for him.
Well, I'm not like I-
Sorry, I'm kidding, I'm kidding, I'm kidding.
We all agree.
This isn't me freaking out, I suppose you might just be like,
all right, yeah, we agree.
Spider-Man should not have an AI that he can talk to.
Yes, I do understand the point of the AI so that Peter can talk to someone to give away
his expositional thoughts.
Almost like the thought bubbles in comics, but there are so many better ways to give
Peter introspective moments-
There are better ways to do it.
Okay, I want to know the better ways because if you are, I'm fully on board with it.
I want to hear him though, I want him to tell me the better ways.
All right, let's hope he does it.
He's dead, yeah.
Let's see.
There are ways to give Peter introspective moments like this.
I tell this that I'm Spider-Man.
Who is Liz?
Who's Liz?
She's the best, she's awesome.
Yeah, I just, I really want to tell her, but it's kind of weird, you know?
I'm Spider-Man.
What's weird about that?
What if she's expecting someone like Tony Stark?
Me and Matt?
Thanks, Karen.
Perhaps make him have a heart-to-heart moment with Ned,
or how about giving him some form of interaction with Michelle?
I mean-
Still don't have him discuss it with characters instead.
No, he's basically saying convert all his inner monologue into dialogue, and no, that's-
So it's no longer in a monologue, it's dialogue.
Okay.
Not only was it a chance for him to get all expositionary,
but it was also to come to grips with his suit functions as well.
True.
Yeah?
I mean, I'm not saying you can't convert a measure of internal monologue into dialogue,
but by the nature of that conversion, you change its structure and what it's supposed to achieve,
or what it could achieve, because with his inner thoughts, usually his battling himself
for is going through things, and as soon as you change that to dialogue,
if you're going to do it honestly, you're going to impose the other person's opinion,
personality into that thought process, and it's not the same.
You've upset a lot of people in chat.
We've got-
It's still dialogue when you speak it to an AI.
Yeah, and that's the thing too.
It's all like, why-
Yeah, I mean, that's a big habit.
Why is it a problem that he's talking to an AI again?
Is it just weird?
Well, I was just going to highlight quickly that-
I was going to like-
The AI is more personless than a real character.
There are things that you would say to an AI that can have basic responses
that you won't say to a person is kind of the point, right?
Exactly, and there's very little greater impact the AI could have on the greater world,
unless someone like hijacks or anything, then a character can, like-
The idea of the inner monologue is there's security because you're talking to yourself,
and you have security towards-
Exactly, and it also means Peter Parker, with his inner monologue,
can talk about anything that Peter Parker knows about, like being Spider-Man.
He can't really talk about too, like, well, not with MJ, with Ned, maybe Ned knows who he is,
but what if he wants to think about how Ned is really annoying him?
Can't talk about that with Ned, but maybe, I don't know.
Still, I think there are limitations in trying to convert it all to dialogue,
and the limitations-
I'm sorry, the issues that you have in talking with a character is lessened by talking to the AI.
Patrified recommends, what about having him talk to the dog or a cat from the deli?
The dog or cat doesn't go with him wherever he's going.
Not to mention that the AI is able to respond,
but while maintaining the fact that it's still him alone, if you know what I mean.
Yes.
I guess if they wanted to go very stylized, they could have done, like,
game stylized as text bubbles, like from a comic.
It'd be a bit jarring though, that's the thing.
Yeah, of course, you'd come out of nowhere like that.
Yeah, just suddenly the MCU, yeah.
Well, yeah, it'd be like in Spider-Verse, yeah,
but I guess it works better there because it's animated.
I don't know about you guys, but I want Karen to get an artificial
I Android body and become a love interest for Peter Parker.
Imagine how disappointed she'd be when she sees me.
Well, if I were her, I would be disappointed at all.
She's so understanding, gosh.
She's a very friendly AI.
I would obviously, I'm arguing against my, I love her so much.
Perhaps make him have a heart to heart moment with Ned,
or how about giving him some form of interaction with Michelle?
I mean, MJ.
Instead of making her a one note character,
she knows what it's like to be an outcast.
Maybe have Peter talk to Michelle about his feelings for Liz,
completely unaware of the fact that she's clearly into him.
That's Peter Parker esque.
There's so many better ways to give your protagonist
an introspective moment without taking away what makes the protagonist.
So hang on, clearly into him.
I think you could only say that from hindsight and third party.
Like if you, if I was Peter and I got all this crap from MJ
that he got in, you know, homecoming,
I wouldn't think she's into me.
I don't think she's a jerk.
I don't think the audience should necessarily
think she's into him from the homecoming.
Um, yeah, there's, there's pieces of evidence,
but they only get contextualized and far from home as evidence.
If you know what I mean, like, oh, she's,
she's kind of looking at him a lot.
You'd be like, you could look at him for a lot of reasons,
which is highlighted by far from home, actually.
Well, um, yeah.
Um, but you know, could it be good that I just like,
that's an alternate story, I guess.
Cause like she's a very, um, she's a very,
she, she occupies very little of the screen.
Uh, MJ, she's a very thin tertiary character in homecoming.
So the idea that you'd be like, well,
when you write it, so that he has discussions with it.
I don't know.
I don't necessarily like that because even something small
doesn't mean that it's not bad or it's easier.
That's not my argument currently.
Yeah, my current argument is that he's suggesting you
make these changes.
And I'm saying like you're taking a character that's barely anything
and you're going to change her into a secondary to the very least,
which is going to change the format of the movie to a degree.
Yeah. Um, that could, that could improve it.
I guess the idea is that it's meant to be a misdirection.
Like if you, if you had gone into the movie blind,
you'd be like, who, who is this?
You know, I feel they misdirected everyone.
If they, it was pretty, it was pretty obvious.
You know, if anyone looked at the casting things that she was cast as MJ,
and then they know that this is not a place of Mary Jane for the people
who didn't do that.
It was a far more subtle insert to replace the red headed character.
See, I don't, I, I honestly like I, you could have just called a Mary Jane
and I don't think I would have really cared actually
because it is kind of one of those things where I'm like,
uh, it's meant to be Mary Jane.
No, isn't it?
I don't know.
Like you, as soon as you make a connection like that,
you are creating a story to be judged against,
just like with Spider-Man being called Spider-Man.
As soon as, and so I actually think they were a bit smart to change her name,
but I don't think it's, it's, that's just literally because by calling her MJ,
she is Mary Jane.
Yeah.
I was going to say like, there's not going to be Mary Jane in the MCU
because you already have.
Mary, if they did, I would actually be happy about that.
Oh, would you?
Yeah.
Clicking the real Mary Jane, they're like, yeah.
And you know, this is the thing, right?
Like because comic book curious and everything and people might say,
I'm right for this.
I say, shut up.
Let me get my point across.
Is that if they actually, if they actually kept the character the same, right?
MJ carry the same, right?
And cast a actor that matched the original character more,
more faithfully, a red headed, right?
And kept the character the same, but called him Mary Jane.
I would actually call that an improvement upon what is actually in homecoming.
And this is an interesting comparison to what we were saying before.
Like if you, if nothing changes in the movie,
except the title of the character or something like that,
how can that improve it?
Well, it's my point of reference because of what's already established.
My counter would be you'll improve the experience for people
who are biased towards a character that exists in an alternate piece of media.
But objectively speaking, the writing hasn't changed.
But I would say that improvement is intrinsically tied
to the ability to judge the quality of it based on how effectively,
how accurately it is an adaptation.
Yeah. So an adaptation argument.
Again, it's going back to the argument.
I feel the adaptive value of something is inseparable from the quality of it.
You can judge writing in one category.
You can judge, you know, special effects in one category.
But if you're taking it as a whole, is this good or bad?
The adaptive quality is always going to have an impact on the judgment of it.
But CGI or shots or acting, none of these things would be relevant
to a conversation about how good the continuity's writing is.
Yeah, but I'm saying if you're actually trying to objectively judge
the quality of something as a whole, not the quality of its component parts,
you need to have a look at the CGI.
You need to have a look at the adaptive quality.
I think my view on that is stuff like cinematography, sound design,
editing, visual effects, like your objective, your objective assessments
of like film or TV, whereas you change it for book.
For a book, you'd be doing things like prose or prose.
Yeah, exactly.
And for a comic, it could be so I think it varies.
But the baseline, the fundamental across all stories is the plot
and the and like plot progression characters because that's a consistent in all media.
All stories.
It doesn't discount the quality.
No, I don't think it discounts.
I don't think it discounts either.
I think I agree with you.
Wonderful.
Oh, no, I like I said, like some of the some of the arguments have been more just trying to,
I guess, figure out where I stand on it as well.
That's the value of discussion.
There you go.
And so for clarification, Mola, do you apply the same standard for historical films?
You could have an inaccurate historical film that's well written.
Is the story as well written, but it could be absolutely inaccurate.
Because like Battlefield Five, we all remember that game.
I often forget it.
I greatly dislike that historically accurate.
And I guess that would be discussions about immersion.
Like it's probably difficult.
Sure.
Yeah.
The problems arise with like Inglourious Bastards, which is an awesome film, but it's not accurate at all.
Um, I guess that's partly tethered to tone.
What kind of tone you're going for?
Because Battlefield Five was advertised as like, this is a gritty, you know, this is a gritty or
no, they avoided authentic.
They used to call battlefield authentic, but then they avoided.
Yeah.
See, that would be a lie at that point.
What did they say?
They had a word for it.
They said, um, there was some marketing word for that.
I can't remember.
It wasn't authentic though.
Um, because again, that would be a lie.
Um, Woke.
Well, that you can't say that.
Wow.
Chad.
Oh, it's sorry.
This is a woke podcasts.
I think my favorite thing about the battlefield fire thing, like you care about battlefield.
It's never been really like cool.
So if battlefield four had laser guns and you wrote on Tyrannosaurus Rex's and like,
like, oh yeah, that's fine.
Cause it's a video game.
You can do whatever you want.
Yeah.
I, I think it ultimately comes down onto what the film is supposed to be.
There is a, like by how you define it, how, what the film is, it creates like inescapable
standards in which the movie or whatever is going to be compared against.
And would you start like genre definitions for that?
So like, even that sometimes, yeah.
Like at historical adaptations are like, that's a big one where you get a standard
that you cannot separate when you're getting quality.
I think, um, I think what I think of there is, you know, a director would say, well,
this is a romance or it's like, well, there literally is no love plot in this story at all.
It was like, well, I say it's a romance.
So it is like, no, at that point we have definitions for what we're talking about.
And it just isn't that anymore.
Something like that.
And so I guess going back to the point, yeah, I actually feel it would have been made the
film better, even objectively, if they could have kept the character the same, but just,
you know, cast the, the actress right to be more true to the source material.
Oh, apparently they did say it was authentic.
What the hell?
Yeah, running around with prosthetic limbs and crooked pants.
Okay.
Well, if I remember the quote correctly, he said, how could I turn to my daughter and tell
her that women weren't involved or something like that?
Oh, uh, uh, that's bullshit.
I'm glad you brought up the Katana.
Have you, I'm insulted.
They, I, Jack, they want to be authentic swords in world war two.
All right.
Yeah.
I mean, like, like Matt, Matt, Jack said, um, any soldier who goes into battle without
his sword is improperly dressed.
He is my hero.
He is my hero.
I just love the idea that he went into battle and charging the enemy line with a sword.
It can save your life.
Let's be honest.
Is my spirit animal.
All right.
Let's keep going.
Yeah, Liz completely unaware of the fact that she's clearly into him.
That's Peter Parker esque.
There's so many better ways to give your protagonist an introspective moment without
taking away what makes the protagonist the protagonist.
Hang on.
Hang on.
Hang on.
So he's saying that giving him the suits or the AI takes makes, takes away what makes
him the protagonist.
Does having introspective moments with the robot suit take away elements of his
protagonist?
If that's a word, no, I disagree with that.
Doesn't make sense.
All right.
I mean, he hasn't really qualified it.
I think you might be saying it.
I was trying to say that he defines Peter Parker as someone who was always poor and
struggling with things.
And by him having the suit and the AI makes him not the true protagonist version of
Spider-Man as he sees it.
And I would contest that definition of what Spider-Man is.
And for reasons I've already gone through here.
Is to give your protagonist an introspective moment without taking away what makes the
protagonist the protagonist.
But Alex, he loses the suit at the end of the second act and goes back to basic Spider-Man
stuff.
Yeah, exactly.
As soon as he loses the suit, this movie becomes a pretty good Spider-Man flick.
The, if this be my destiny moment.
You can't set that up without the stuff that you have.
Well, you could do it.
He is contradicting his statement at the beginning there.
Yeah, he said it was good.
No, he said it wasn't great, not even good.
And then he is conceding that there's a part in here that is a good Spider-Man story.
Is he suggesting that this scene may be good, but it doesn't make the film good?
Perhaps.
Perhaps that's what I'm saying.
I would assume that's how it slots in.
The, if this be my destiny moment is my favorite Spider-Man moment since, well,
no, no, this.
I also thoroughly enjoy the fact that Peter turns down Tony Stark's offer,
realizes that he can do better and needs to go all out of the way.
That was set up by the whole first two acts.
That again, you're cutting out a lot.
It was set up by the first two acts of the movie, him turning down the suit.
Yeah, the, what makes it a meaningful decision is the, is the first two
acts is what I would argue.
The fact that he believes that that's what he wants and then realizes it's not through his own growth.
So I guess what, I'm assuming what Fringey's trying to say and what I would say is like being
like, Oh, I liked that part, but not the other parts.
It's like the other parts make that part.
Yep.
So offer realizes that he can do better and needs to grow all on his own.
That's all well and good, but he gets the suit back and infinity war gets an even nicer suit
and joins the Avengers, which leads me to the next pass since then.
But it's the minutia matters, the motivation behind it.
Like I want to be an Avenger.
Why?
I want to be an Avenger.
Well, that's, you know, you're supposed to be protecting people.
It doesn't matter if you're called an Avenger or not.
And then in infinity war, he's provided the label after he's already committed to actions
that would identify him as an Avenger where he doesn't, he doesn't care if he is an Avenger.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
But there's even more fundamental than that.
If he didn't have the suit in infinity war, he would have died.
True.
The suit is to protect him from space.
Like, so the suit actually becomes fairly essential to that part.
Now, could you avoid it that he just got inside the spaceship before it went to space?
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, that's a bit of a stretch for a kid who's never seen a space.
I'm sure there's a fucker somewhere.
He does get inside the ship because a flap is open.
So yeah, I imagine it's not like he had to pilot the damn thing.
But I guess my point is, I don't think it detracts from the story of infinity war,
especially that by the fact he has a more fancy suit in certain elements,
it could be considered it enhanced it because he can do some pretty cool stuff with it.
And infinity war isn't a story about Spider-Man struggling with
being poor and everything like that.
In fact, that's completely separate to what happens in infinity war.
I'm sorry, I'm already.
I do want to highlight, he does get the suit back at the end of the film,
yes, but the third act is proof that he doesn't need it.
It's just like in the same way that I guess you would argue that Cap,
his fundamentals are tested, whether or not he has the serum, he's a good hearted hero.
Same for Tony, to a degree.
Personally, I feel it does create a larger inconsistency in the MCU as to why,
you know, Tony Stark doesn't give all the Avengers some type of suit to
benefit them in whatever capacity.
Yeah, like why doesn't Blackwood ever have an Iron Lady?
Exactly, she would do great with that.
I like it, even if it wasn't a full Iron Man one, but it helped out with her espionage.
I agree.
And had goods, you know, stealth things, everything.
Cap could have done really well with the suit.
Yeah, I think that's more than the MCU movie.
What?
Didn't you invite him with the shield though?
Yeah, but that's kind of why, that's actually why I find it to be a problem.
If it was all or nothing, as in Tony doesn't give anyone any tech.
They do what they do, and he tries to help them where he can,
because he doesn't want to provide any technology outward of himself.
As a part of his character, I'd be like, okay.
But he clearly does give them all upgrades based on their abilities.
Like he gives Hawkeye, like, you know, better gear to shoot arrows.
And it's kind of like, okay, so why not just like give him armor too?
Yeah, yeah.
And you might be like, well, he doesn't know how to use the Iron Man suit.
He's like, maybe train them.
They're really good suits.
I would say it's pretty intuitive based.
And then you'd be like, well, it'll take away what makes Iron Man Iron Man
in this universe.
Everyone's running around with them like, yeah, that's true.
But you know,
Yeah, but in the universe, you're not thinking like, oh, man, I'm so unique.
You're thinking like, yeah, so we got big alien invasion practically.
I mean, when you have Thor on the team, and then you're like Black Widow,
she's got pistols and little zappy things.
You're like, maybe we should give her some gear or just tell her to sit on the bench.
Because like, holy shit.
And Iron Man 3 establishes that he's certainly not, you know,
running shy on resources to make suits.
And so it wasn't, it wouldn't have been difficult.
So that's, that's an annoying inconsistency that's now established because of this.
That would be my criticism for it.
You think Black Widow would be just a little irritated using little baby Glocks and feel.
The thing is, I don't really consider it a homecoming issue.
I think it's been an issue when you even came out.
Well, you cut out again there for you.
Damn.
He's right.
Well, I still got what he said though.
He's right.
It's a consistent issue of what you could call will building slash continuity with
the MCU as a whole.
Especially with Wakanda being introduced.
Now everything gets really it is me.
Because it's like, how does, if Wakanda is sharing the tech,
holy crap, what's going to happen in future for like, I don't know.
Well, I guess we'll have to see that.
But does that explain where Iron Man got the nanotech for his upgrade?
Oh, maybe I'm referring to just everybody getting fundamentally affected.
Like, is Black Panther going to mass produce those necklaces the next time, you know,
something happens?
I don't know.
It'd be useful.
He's willing to give Captain America, you know, weird vibranium shields that are different,
but he's certainly willing to pass out some tools.
So yeah, why doesn't he go all the way?
Yeah.
So I wouldn't say that it's like, I guess Hightop's like, oh, so why is he giving Peter
stuff?
He won't give anyone else stuff.
And it's like, well, he does give people other stuff.
He's not giving them as good stuff as him.
So the problem is with almost the other films rather than this one.
I think it's kind of the same as, you know, how Far From Home has its stuff with the snap.
And it's like, you almost can't blame them because end game set up rules that they had
to follow.
And they're kind of deficient, broken rules, right?
Everybody comes back where they are.
So if you're in a plane, you spawn in midair and fall to ground.
We could, we could talk about that.
We'll talk about that.
I'm so serious.
You know, looking down the street, suddenly 100 people just.
Another one was like, what if, what if somebody got snapped on the pavement, like on the foot
path and you're walking and they spawn like through you.
So you've got like arms and legs sticking out of you.
Yeah.
Hideous monsters.
They're like, I think I honestly, I think those can be simply hand waved with the intent of the
snapper is reflected through the thing.
Also worthwhile to note that planets do move.
So in reality, everybody gets snapped back into empty space.
Yes.
Buys instantly.
Oh, and good.
But he gets the suit back and infinity war gets an even nicer suit and joins the.
See, I don't even have a problem with that of a fundamental character levels.
Like, yeah, but the point was he learned that you didn't need it to be the hero.
He is the hero.
The suit is just a tool.
Avengers, which leads me to the next reason why homecoming is a bad Spider-Man movie.
The Avengers and the entire MCU.
Now having Spider-Man be in the MCU was a web dream of mine, literally.
So when he showed up in Civil War, I got goose pimples.
And I pause it for the sake of copyright, I guess.
I don't even know.
I don't know what this is.
I already made a video about why his introduction is so great.
So go watch that or don't.
But what seemed like a blessing at first now seems like a curse.
I want you to remember the days where these superhero flicks weren't all connected.
Where a movie was just a movie.
Sam Raimi's Spider-Man is just a movie about Spider-Man.
No sequel set up.
No character pop ins.
No timeline continuity.
It's just a film.
All those things are not negatives.
He's he's bordering on blasphemy, too.
It's it's interesting.
How can you argue for?
I hated that.
Okay, well, calm down.
For real, that's that's very odd, you know.
Comics, one of the main things about comics that's really cool
and that the MCU is kind of tapping into is the idea that everything is.
Yes.
Characters will interact with other like it's cool to, you know, see you to be reading a Spider-Man
and then just have like Sue Storm show up for maybe a chapter and then go off elsewhere
and then other characters pop up.
It's like, yeah, the films were standalone, but you like the comics, don't you?
The comics aren't standalone for the most part.
Yeah.
And there's also an inconsistency that exists with these standalone films
because these films establish that people with extraordinary abilities can exist.
And it's not just one off because all the people is fighting
have equivalent ish levels of power as well.
And so this is a thing that's happening in the world.
Why is it only happening in New York City?
Like, you know, so clearly it must be happening elsewhere.
Why aren't the characters even mentioning it?
Like the fact that I'm get I've got spider powers and oh, this is kind of interesting
because there's a person with power on this other side of the world doing something.
Like you'd think that would be a fairly relevant point of reference
that would come up as soon as you get these powers.
And it just it's it's like I didn't I've never liked the fact that they were self-contained
and only happening in this one instance in this one city in this one point in time.
Always in New York as well.
I just want to see what were his three references.
We're all connected where a movie was just a movie.
Sam Raimi Spider-Man is just a movie about Spider-Man.
No sequel set up.
No character pop ins.
No timeline continuity.
So timeline continuity, character pop ins and sequel set up.
I mean, it does have timeline continuity.
There's sorry.
I think it's saying that there's errors in the continuity, which is I thought he was saying the
fact that that's a thing they have to actually because if you're saying that nearly having
continuity is a problem, it's like, no, that's a good thing.
Character pop ins are these are not none of these are inherent.
I was just the character pop in his reference.
It's an awesome one.
It's Captain America, who is this altruistic wholesome guy.
He's recorded a bunch of PSAs for kids.
Schools are so like that would totally happen.
Yeah, yeah.
That consistency.
That's great.
It was so refreshing to see it because you're like, oh, my God.
Finally, world is like there is a world here.
It makes it feel lived in, you know, it's leave a bunch.
I do the the line of dialogue where he says pretty sure this guy's a war criminal now,
but whatever the dismissive PE teacher just doesn't want to be there.
It's like, oh, it's great.
All right.
Well, maybe he's saying I don't know.
Let's see what he says about Spider-Man.
No sequel set up.
No character pop ins.
No timeline continuity.
It's just a film.
I don't have a problem with any of those things.
I like Easter eggs.
I like it all.
If those things don't detract from the film at hand and homecoming, it seemed like Sony
was so keen on being able to use Iron Man, the rest of the Avengers, that every single
goddamn story beat scene and character moment involves a reference to the greater MCU.
We have an opening sequence and a villain motivation that direct.
Yeah, it's really cool.
Well, integrated is very well integrated.
And these other elements can be used to enhance the core Spider-Man story.
And that was done in a game.
Yeah.
The implication of Tony Stark and the existence of the Avengers to give him an arc.
And even though there are certain nitpicky things I don't like, and I can argue for the
criticisms against it, even though I can ignore them for the most part in homecoming.
Yeah, these are not categorically negative things as is stating them.
It's odd to me because a lot of the seminal comic books have a crossover with other characters.
Like Batman Dark Knight Returns.
Superman is a major character.
In Dead of a Board again, the Avengers show up in the last sixth of it.
Oh, sorry, Guy.
Oh, no, I just don't see how this is really anything bad to have these sorts of things.
Maybe he's just, I don't know, maybe he just kind of prefers the idea of Spider-Man being
the most special thing in his particular universe in New York where there's no others like him.
Maybe that's why he likes it as much as it is.
But at the same time, I don't see how that's a bad.
I think I think you've honed in on something there.
I think I think part of the I think some people have an issue with Spider-Man is because Spider-Man
is the Marvel superhero.
You know, he is the most important Marvel superhero in terms of recognition and impact.
So it's I guess it maybe does come across as a bit strange that he's not the most
important player in the universe.
You know, yeah, that's what I mean.
I think it's I think it's more of a meta thing because Spider-Man is such an influential part
of pop culture.
And, you know, when you think of like the big three superheroes, it's Batman, Superman, Spider-Man.
But, you know, in the MCU, there are so many heroes and he's come in late.
So they need to build it.
You got to you got to work to earn these sort of things in stories, you know, recognition.
And it's part of the reason why people don't like Rey in Star Wars.
It's like she suddenly comes along and she's awesome.
I mean, she sucks as a character.
But, you know, like she suddenly comes along and she's great at everything.
Whereas, yeah, I'm basically finished.
I was just going to say also having a point of comparison in world can be a very can be
a great tool to enhance the core story of the character.
I've got a graphic novel, which is the ultimate Spider-Man Sinister Six arc right
sitting in my shelf next to me.
And they're having him meet the ultimate in this version, which is the Avengers.
But anyway, meet Iron Man and Tony Stark and everything.
There's a scene where Tony is like, sorry, Nick Fury introduces and says like team Spider-Man,
Spider-Man team and Tony Stark's always like, did you go back in time to get him?
And they have this kind of contraction where they can't believe he's so young.
And then then Fury says, hang on a sec.
The six guys we're trying to get this guy just beat them all single handedly.
Everything's basically at a step like by having the contrast between these heroes,
the Avengers and Spider-Man, and that is so young, it builds his character up that
he's achieved so much.
The guys that we're having trouble finding and beating now.
So don't take him so lightly and everything.
And that was a character building and enhancing thing by having the contrast
in him meeting these other heroes.
That was great.
Would an example of what you're talking about be that he manages to essentially
take the punch from Winter Soldier in Civil War?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's just impressive.
It's just like, oh, you know, you're like, like, don't take this guy so for granted and stuff.
Like, so having more characters to contrast and to try and enhance the qualities and
characteristics of the character you want to focus on is hugely beneficial and useful in storytelling.
All right.
Well, I mean, the thing is, so far, he's sort of declared these things are happening.
I'm waiting to see how they're detrimental, I suppose.
Keen on being able to use Iron Man, the rest of the Avengers, that every single goddamn
story beat scene and character moment involves a reference to the greater MCU.
We have an opening sequence and a villain motivation that directly
ties into the Avengers and more specifically Iron Man.
A second opening sequence that re-
No, just the Avengers.
Sorry.
Yeah, people, a lot of people say that he's directly tied to Iron Man.
Vulture's not directly tied to Iron Man.
It's the Avengers and Tony's joint venture with damage control.
That's the only time his name is specifically mentioned.
That's what he showed, that scene, that's just telling us
it's Stark Industries plus damage control equals where they steal from.
There's no personal vendetta to Iron Man.
He's got a problem with the one percent.
He's very clear about that.
Yeah, and that's not particular to Iron Man.
I just wanted, because a lot of people are like saying it's like, oh,
he's just entirely connected to Tony Stark.
Not necessarily.
He has as much of a problem with him as he does with Thor.
Or like Cap, or everyone in the Avengers.
Specifically Iron Man.
A second opening sequence that recaps the last big Marvel movie
and contains the backsides of pretty much all the Avengers.
We have multiple cameos from Captain America.
A bank heist where the criminals are wearing Avengers masks.
References to Black-
But like he said that, it's a problem.
Why is that a problem?
I want to see where he goes with it.
I feel it, yeah, okay.
Cameos from Captain America.
I think he's trying to say they're distractions when,
I don't think it undermines the plot.
In fact, they're used to, like, they're used integrally in the plot and stuff.
Well, I mean, the motivation first, and at first, the misguided one,
is he wants to be an Avenger.
Yeah.
So it makes sense that the Avengers would come up.
So, some people in chat are like, no, he is literally tied to Iron Man.
Spider-Man or?
Vulture, it's the Avengers, it's not Iron Man.
He doesn't like Iron Man.
No, for sure, for sure he doesn't like it.
But when Vulture gets to share-
Why is it bad if he is?
We'll get to that, we will get to that.
But the warehouse, when he's explaining his entire motivation to Peter,
he doesn't mention Iron Man, he's just talking about, like, the people up there.
Like, they do-
He does say, how do you think your buddy-
Yeah, but that was, like, not an analogy, a reference for how he's not a bad guy, right?
He's trying to explain to Peter that he's just a victim of circumstance, just like Stark is.
My point is that his motivation to steal from people,
it's just a matter of the fact that they're downtrodden,
they're the people who pick up the scraps from the people up high.
People like us, people like you and me, you know?
We got to go through their tables.
I'm not saying he likes Iron Man, I'm saying that-
I must have forgotten the speech where he mentions Thor and Hulk,
he mentions the Avengers, they're in the Avengers.
Are they saying that Vulture's value as a villain is lessened because he only exists due to Iron Man?
I'm not understanding the criticism.
Neither am I.
Well, that one, yeah, I mean-
I don't mean- I don't want to straw man them, if that's not what they're saying,
I'm just trying to understand what they're saying.
Vulture is literally tied to Iron Man with a vibranium cable.
All the Avengers.
We have multiple cameos from Captain America.
A bank heist to where the criminals are wearing Avengers masks.
References to Black Widow, Thor, and the rest of the team.
All of Peter's internal conflicts involve Iron Man and wanting to be an Avenger.
Hell, Holland's three big emotional moments revolve around trying to-
Why is he showing the scene-
Sorry?
Why is he showing the scene where he's pinned under debris? He doesn't-
Um, he thinks back to Iron Man's statement saying,
if you're nothing without the suit, then you don't deserve it.
Oh, right, okay, all right.
The thing is, yes, Iron Man said it,
but the point is that he's thinking about the statement, the sentiment even.
Like, whether or not Iron Man said it is irrelevant at that point.
Disinvolved Iron Man in one-
Sorry, whether or not it came from Iron Man is what I mean.
To be an Avenger.
Hell, Holland's three big emotional moments revolve
around trying too hard to be like Iron Man and realizing he needs to be himself.
Yeah, no. When he's picking up the debris, it's not that he needs to be Iron Man,
he realizes, no, I need to be Spider-Man.
It's-
He's saying, come on, Spider-Man, let's go. You gotta do this.
Like I said, I see that moment as him combining Peter and Spider-Man to,
you know, get the job done.
It's not that he needs to get rid of one or the other,
it's that he needs to combine them both. They're both important.
That's why he says, come on, Peter, then come on Spider-Man.
They're the two halves of his hull.
I mean, that's pretty evident from that shot, isn't it?
Yeah, and then the Steam plays.
They don't play ACD City in the Steam.
They don't play in the Steam.
I prefer Iron Man Jr.
That's what I'm going for, rather than Spider-Man.
That's a joke, dude.
No, no, no, no. That's a full-on meme now.
But the thing is, it's-
That is something for you to criticise.
But I don't, the thing is, I don't even necessarily agree,
disagree with the idea that he's mentored by Iron Man.
Does that make him Iron Man Jr.?
Maybe.
He's not going to be Iron Man Jr. post far from home, though.
Does it, though? I mean, look at him-
Well, I'm curious what they-
If their definition is literally was mentored by Iron Man, I'd be like, okay.
I mean, like, I think of Dick Grayson as like, he's part of the Bat family, sure,
but Nightwing is his- and Nightwing isn't Batman, and he was mentored by Bruce.
So, I think the argument here, and I've spoken to Mauler a bit about this as well as you, Fringy,
is that the idea that he is tutored, mentored by Iron Man, and in some instances,
he seems beholden to Iron Man's judgement and stuff, even though, again, Homecoming,
he seems to overcome that, but there's that still whole Mr. Stark, Mr. Stark thing that
is present in his character and stuff, but that detracts away from his sense of,
what is it, identity, his strong independent nature that does exist in the comic books and stuff,
and I think that is something that, well, that's fair enough to try and consider and to try and
determine, like, is his independent go at yourself? Well, when he goes at himself in the
other iterations, that's usually by necessity, because he doesn't get help, not that he's
choosing to go at himself. I actually feel if he had the option to receive help from others,
even the true Spider-Man character would be dumb not to accept the help, but because no one is
helping him out, he has to go at his alone, and he never gives up as a result, establishes a very
admirable, strong individual character, and that is missing in this interpretation.
I don't think that a character being mentored
in an individual. Oh, I don't think somebody being mentored in and of itself means that they're not
necessarily independent, just because they get, like, independence, I don't view dependency and
independence as, like, you know, binary. I suppose you could reference Luke as mentored
by Yoda, and yet he still makes decisions for himself. Yeah, yeah. So what is more impressive,
or you could say stronger, a character who is able to achieve the same amount by figuring it out
himself? Well, like Captain Marvel. Oh, hang on. If we can see the process, and it's justifiable,
and it's a likeable character on the types of beats that they can fall like, it's not a complete
perfect comparison there, because they fail in the way they execute Captain Marvel. But with
Spider-Man, and that we have a point of comparison to be able to see how it was executed, which is
the comic books, and it comes across as a very strong admirable, and again, like the notion of
is independence a virtue? Well, I mean, it shows that they can get things done when they need to
get things done, and they don't necessarily need to rely on other people. That is a strong
characteristic. Yeah, like when he went to the plane and did that. Yeah, like, and we say that
that was a good thing, because he's doing it himself. Well, are you talking about when he goes,
be when he goes to fight Vulture without the suit? Yeah, he does that on his own. Yeah, yeah. And so,
and that is, I think we've all been acknowledging that that's a moment of character strength,
because he is relying on himself and is doing himself. And so people are saying that that
characteristic, and I agree with him in this instance, is more broadly represented in the
Spider-Man story in cartoon, the comic books, everything like that, and is a better character
as a result. I think that in the case of this story, it's the it's seeing him not be like that,
that makes it to when he finally does sort of do that, it's more effective, because you get to see
he did it, he did it differently, and wrong, and made a lot of mistakes. And then he finally,
you know, sort of gets to a point where he does it right. And it feels like it was earned. He had
to work at it. There was a progression, if you know what I mean, like, there was a progression
from. But could you have the same story with him going through those struggles independently
without Iron Man? I mean, yeah, but the thing is, I'd say you could have a story like that.
You could do it, but at that point, different as opposed to necessarily better or worse.
Well, again, this goes back to the can you try and define certain characteristics that are objective?
And I think this is one of those things. Yeah, but then you can come back with like,
when we look at setting up a character in the arc that they go on, you want you, you know, having
them start in a position where they're not as, you know, they're not doing as well as they could
be, and then progress towards a situation where they're doing better. If you have them doing well
at the start and well at the end, then there's no progression. Whereas if you have been starting off
sort of doing worse, and then progressing and then getting better towards the end,
you can see that progression. And it sort of ties into his life. Yeah.
Somehow, two people in chat interpreted your argumentation to support the last Jedi.
Who am I? No, Fringies. I find it fascinating if anything, Fringies just argued the opposite
because the last Jedi takes a character and arbitrarily flips their switch.
The last Jedi has no progression, Rey is great at the start and great at the end.
Before we get derailed, and I forget my reply to what Fringies said, let me just try and get that
is that I feel Peter Parker's progression, in terms of what he has to overcome to become
a aspirational, heroic, you know, figure and independent and strong and everything,
is encapsulated in the Uncle Ben beginning, the first act of the story. And then the rest of the
story is enjoying this just awesome character going through, not necessarily just going through
emotions, but going through life, trying to struggle and do the right thing with all the
problems that he runs in along the way. And the comparison would be like, trying to say that if
Superman had an arc where he needed to obtain his powers, would that be a better story than seeing
Superman trying to operate with his powers and knowing when to use them effectively?
Well, then the moral questions that are associated with it.
Well, I just say it's a different story. In the same sense, it is different. But that doesn't mean
it's equivalent. I think the argument is making that it is actually inferior.
They do have objective points that they're pointing to, to say that it is an objectively
inferior character as a result. And I honestly got it.
I just I don't understand that personally. I imagine that the the arc is of like real importance.
You know, you know what this is like? So because again, it's point of reference. So for me,
this is like me trying to explain to you how great the best spaghetti bolognese is
when you haven't tasted it. It's hard to convey, but I can try and know I've read Spider-Man comics.
Like I'm not I'm not sure. Like this is what I mean. It's like I've read Spider-Man. I'm not
as big a fan of Spider-Man as I am of like Batman dead of all Deadpool and stuff like that.
So I just saw another comment before someone said it sounds like for me is arguing that
who your mentor is. No, it's it's important because what the mentor believes will inform
the way that the character behaves. I mean, I guess a good example would be you compare
when Ben was the mentor, he was you know, he was just a good guy, a very straightforward,
understandable good guy who had a framework that was clear from the very start. And really,
you're not really gonna you understand it, even if you misinterpret it, even if you don't act
on it correctly, you understand it. The great power comes great responsibility. Whereas with
Tony, there's that added element of he's an Avenger. I want to be an Avenger. I want status.
He's really cool and impressive and awesome. Even your even your way of trying to define
that element of his character sounds childish, sounds selfish, sounds like the fact that these
are character qualities he needs to overcome is evidence that they are negative character traits
and therefore creates a more unlikable hero as a result. Whereas the Spider-Man that's already
established and being the aspirational noble character is objectively better because
Yeah, but couldn't you turn around and be like, well, Iron Man's
Hang on, you're cut out again. Well, I mean, it wouldn't be like, like,
saying, well, Tony's not a very good hero. He's narcissistic. He's, he gets his well,
that's kind of superb. He's a womanizer. And oh, yeah, exactly. It's all about execution. And
Tony Stark's selfishness and narcissism is executed in a very engaging, interesting, funny
way and stuff like that. The execution of these specific character traits in even Homecoming,
like, I think even the way that you were explaining it, you were explaining it before,
shows that the execution didn't come across in a positive way. I think the execution did come
across in a positive way, though, because it was for in service of the of the arc.
But okay, but sorry, is that you saying that they are negative character traits,
though, you're saying they're in services, they are negative character traits,
they are character traits, specifically, because he needs to overcome them in the narrative.
Surely you would agree that all characters should have some negative character traits, right?
Well, it depends what the character is supposed to fulfill. And the whole idea of Spider-Man is
to be this aspirational, right? But like, he has, yeah, but he has negative character traits.
Well, let's look at the let's well, hang on. Let's look at the, the core, most true version of
Spider-Man that is established in most of the works, right? What are his negative character traits?
Selfishness is definitely not one of them. Okay. You know, trying to please other people
in lieu of what he decides is right is not one of them either.
That was something he did in the early comics. So when he was trying to get Liz,
and like the very early comics, I need to see examples. But we are trying to look at the
I'm trying to remember there was an instance where Flash was in trouble in the early comics.
And if I remember correctly, Spider-Man genuinely considered whether or not
he was like, for real, should I actually help him if you cut it? Sorry, you're cutting out.
God damn. Um, yeah, no, I'm in one of the talk or are you in voice thing? No, I'm on a,
I'm on the voice thing. I think should I notice that that cuts out a lot for me. So I've been
switching to push to talk lately. That might help. Huh? Let me give that a try. By the way,
we saw the video. We're almost two minutes. We have two minutes left.
We can do it, you guys. I just did. I saw, you know, someone say, Chad,
that character that flaws is boring. And look, that's generally correct. But again,
depends on what you're trying, what story you're trying to tell and everything like that. And,
and the story of Spider-Man isn't necessarily focused on his character flaws. He has very few
character flaws. He is a noble, aspirational hero. It's the crap he has to go through because of his
character qualities. He is choosing to do the right thing and his life is being ruined and all
these things. And so that's the whole kind of point of, of the Spider-Man character. And he,
and, and for that type of story, it is brilliant. It is. And, uh, and yeah, so, and I've not seen
that there are no flaws. I think we could pick out a couple, but the flaws that are present in
homecoming are not the flaws that the character, that Peter Parker character has generally there,
that some people will even see it as a betrayal of that character type.
For me, the, uh, the flaws are what you can hear me now, right? This is working.
Yes.
Okay. All right. Good, good, good. Um, for me, the flaws are what make the characters like, um,
could you have your positive traits and characters generally should have at least
a couple of positive traits, but it's the flaws that make them believable. Um, and, and you can
have characters who are flawed, who are still aspirational. Like I find dead everyone to still
be kind of aspirational, but you've got a character like dead ever. Like his morality is very
questionable at a lot of times, like why he does things. Um, cause he's a devout Catholic. Um,
so he's obviously kind of worried about his eternal soul when it comes to, you know,
battling people. Um, and then the central dichotomy is like, do you, you enjoy beating people up or,
you know, or, well, no, for real, like the, you know,
the execution of those floors are done really well in Daredevil. The question is,
is the execution of these floors done well in homecoming? And I think there is a legitimate
argument to criticize the execution of these floors. From within homecoming or from without
homecoming? What more so in home, more so in, um, far from home. Absolutely. I mean,
the criticism of the, of how it's handled within the film. Are you going to be how it comes across
is his selfishness is his, you know, um, lack of independence in the sense of,
I don't want to deny you calling it a selfish attribute that he wants to, uh, achieve the
label of Avenger, but there is, there is, there is a shit ton of evidence for him being a selfless
person in this film, um, on top of it. So the idea of, is it handled well? It'd be like,
is a 15 year old who fan boys after the world's, you know, heroes handled relatively well in this
film and be like, well, yeah, they have plenty of, um, progression in each of the scenes to show.
This is something that's on his mind a lot. It doesn't take away from this core value of wanting
to help people. Well, that's my point. I'm not saying this isn't justified or it makes sense in
the pot or anything like that. I'm just trying to compare the actual character traits themselves.
If they, these are positive character traits or negative character traits and comparing them to
the more established version of Spider-Man and why people might prefer the other more established
version. I wouldn't have a problem with anyone preferring it. Uh, it's just. But even comparing
it, trying to say what is objectively a better heroic character. Um, in relation to what you're
using as your, uh, as your metric for that. Yeah. Well, I guess, I guess my thing would be, um,
I can just think of a lot of heroes who have deficiencies. Batman has very clear deficiencies
as a person. Um, Deadpool is an anti-hero. So I guess maybe, I'm guessing maybe you have like
a different view when it comes to, you've got the heroes, then the anti-heroes, new villains.
The metric that a lot of people will be judging it by is the inherent fact that this is a Spider-Man
movie by it being called a Spider-Man movie. That's the metric. They'll judge it accordingly.
Is it a good Spider-Man one? But then we're just going to repeat the discussion we've had before.
Yeah. So maybe we'll get back to the video. Very well. Yeah. Let's do it. To be himself.
I preferred Iron Man Jr. That's what I'm going for rather than Spider-Boy. Now remember guys,
this is all my opinion, but I think the reliance on the Marvel brand definitely makes the movie
seem less like a fairly American issue of a comic book. People often say that's what makes
the MCU successful. The sense of connectedness. You sound like you want to say something.
I thought you were arguing from the comics. I don't understand you.
Well, to be fair, to be fair to the guy, he did, uh, he didn't try to lump in way too many,
you know, wrong facts or anything like that. He got us on that, uh, corner store thing and
everything. So yeah, but he didn't get a bunch of other things wrong with the consequences. And then
well, yeah, but for the most part, I do like he's, he's been pretty clear that I understand him
opinion heavy. I understand. I'm not sure. I think I'm on the page of the whole like,
I don't understand. It's like, it's sort of disdain for continuity, uh, elements.
Yeah, it was, it was weird. Cause he said that they're okay as long as they don't detract. And
I don't think he's explained how they detract. Yeah, he really hasn't. And so it's, it's kind
of pretty clear that he liked, uh, Spider-Man being the lone wolf and pretty much the whole
city. I think, I think he would have loved the MCU if it was, you know, instead of Iron Man one,
it was Spider-Man one. Like it began with Spider-Man and then Iron Man was a character that came in
later sort of thing and it more revolved around, um, a Spider-Man sort of thing. It's just,
this continuity isn't that, I guess, makes the movie seem less like a film and more like an
issue of a comic book. People often say that's what makes the MCU successful. The sense of
connectedness. No, what makes the MCU successful is that it has a bunch of really heartfelt,
well-made movies with characters we know and give it. Yeah, but this is the thing. You're
highlighting progression, like, um, and you can't have progression without continuity. So,
and you might be like, well, it's the important progression. It's the characters. It's like,
yeah, but you had, so civil war doesn't work without Age of Ultron, Iron Man three and Iron
Man one and cap two and cap one. Yeah, like the scene that's paused on right now couldn't work
without the movies that came before. And even to go further than that, without all the movies that
went before, arguably we couldn't have gotten one of the best movies ever made in Endgame. Like,
it was phenomenal. I like that you like that so much, but I think people will be surprised that
that's your take on Endgame. I love it. It's so good. Maybe I, look, I love fan service as well.
And there was, you know, there were some great scenes that just gave me fan girl moments. I was
like, yeah. Uh, but yeah, it was so good. It's a fan girl mega hard at the, uh, the after credit
sequence of far from home. We'll get to that. But I just, he's talking about, he's talking about
Jameson. I'm talking about the other thing. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The Easter eggs
references set up and all that other shit is just the icing on a well cooked cake. But in Homecoming's
case, if the cake itself isn't that well baked, the whole thing suffers. I was overjoyed. So it's
not, it's not the continuity. It's the problem. It was the, the base was already broken in the
first place. I guess. Well, then why even bring it up? Yeah. This is, this is weird. If you're
saying that the cake was baked poorly, wouldn't you say icing on the top would have improved it?
Yeah. I would think it might have improved. Like, like, like if the movie is so bad,
the only drama you can get out of it is these cameos and internet connected parts of the MCU
and stuff like that. That's an improvement. I would say like, yeah, I imagine you'd be saying
at least we got the continuity. Yeah. I think he wants this cake to have more dead people in it.
Then Homecoming's case, if the cake itself isn't that well baked, the whole thing suffers. I was
overjoyed when I saw Civil War. Spider-Man was finally interacting with Iron Man, Captain America,
even freaking Bucky. That's awesome. That's so damn cool. I left Civil War so excited about the
new Spider-Man. I wanted to know more about him. I was excited to get the good Spider-Man movie
again. A movie that focused on Peter, his motivation, Uncle Ben. Maybe they would even have a screen
accurate Mary Jane, a character we hadn't seen in 10 years. An MJ who had an abusive home life and
made herself the party girl to avoid feeling alone. Maybe they would even do the face of tiger
moment. Maybe they would explore Peter wanting to be a photographer. Maybe he would get his money
by posting on the Daily Bugle YouTube, exploiting himself as Spider-Man. Kind of sounds like he
wants like, Raimi. Yeah, like, I don't know. I don't know how to respond to this. He just wants another
Raimi movie. It's like, okay, you, I can see what you want. I see it. I get it. I get what you want.
You didn't get what you wanted. Okay. I get it. I understand. I do, but I don't know, man. Yeah,
definitely still wants another Raimi movie. It's like, yeah, well, we got him. We got the Raimi movie.
Making two cents per video. Would this younger Aunt May not like the idea of Peter trying to
support her? How does Ben's death affect her? I had so many questions after watching Civil War
and was so excited to get back to a smaller, more personal story involving Peter Parker,
a Spider-Man movie that didn't need to set up a universe or have a Batman Begins-esque tone.
I don't, I don't think that Homecoming does set up a universe. It just benefits from one.
Yeah. There's no real like, they don't touch on Ben later.
Well, they might do. They might not. I don't necessarily see it as a requirement. I know that
that I'm going to be, I have to shout you to have a different perspective on that one. Well,
I mean, I'm not waiting for it. I'm just saying like they, they can, they can subtly cover it.
If they really want or have a Batman Begins-esque tone, a Spider-Man movie
that was the clear vision of one director and not a studio. But Homecoming doesn't focus on any of
that. It doesn't really focus on anything that makes a Spider-Man film. The movie doesn't focus
nearly enough on the human element of Spider-Man. See, like I'm with him when he's like, it's not
doing these specific things and then identifies them. And I'm like, it didn't do that one. Yeah,
it didn't do that one. Yeah. And then he says, like, it doesn't focus on the human element of
the character. I'm like, oh, wait a minute. There's a problem there, because there's a lot
of things that makes character human. Like need we go straight back to the crying? No,
don't do that. 15 year olds don't cry when they're nearly dead. Let's not bring up a crying.
The film's director, John Watts, described Homecoming as mainly a John Hughes High School movie.
Just because you reference Ferris Bueller doesn't make you Ferris Bueller. I don't think they were
trying to be Ferris Bueller. I think they were. Yeah, it's a reference. Well, I guess if you
reference another movie, you're trying to be the movie. I don't know. John Hughes movies focus on
character, establishing characters, the relationship between characters. Yeah. And the implication
there is that they didn't do that in this film. And I would say Peter and Vulture are some of the
most established or understood characters in the film. Could Ned get some more work?
Sure. Liz? Sure. What else we got? The protagonist, antagonist, and then secondary.
Then the question comes in of how many well-developed characters are you supposed to have in a film?
I want to see Uncle Ben come back with Spider-Man powers.
I want Uncle Ben zombie. Uncle Ben spider. Spider-Man characters, the relationship between
characters and the drama involved with being in high school. That way to approach a Spider-Man movie
on paper is excellent. I wanted the perks of being a wall crawler, but I ended up getting 13
reasons why Spider-Man Homecoming is not a good Spider-Man movie. Is that a final good line?
You know what we call that? We call that a web slinging ass kicking.
As always, guys, you can support us on Patreon. All right. That's it. All right.
I get where it's coming from. I get where it's coming from. I don't agree with everything,
of course, but I can understand some of his points and feel some are valid.
In the end, the title should be why Spider-Man Homecoming is not a Sam Raimi movie.
He opened with saying, you're just going to stab Raimi, fab boy. It's like, well,
that ending, dude. That ending. Were you like, I don't know. But yeah, I was about to say,
we're at nearly five hours. We've got content remaining before we've even managed to approach
super chat. So I'm going to try and end the fab there, and then we will reconvene to see who's
going to be guessing for the second part of this. If anybody, I don't know how long everyone's going
to be around for. But before we go, I would like everybody to now plug their shit. So
Fringy, would you like to go first, my good man? I have a podcast. It's linked. So what's that? And
that's it for now. Maybe something soon. Wow. So why should they watch your podcast?
Because I told them to. It's objectively brilliant.
Oh, you're going to have Shad guest on it for me?
Yeah, I'll try and get him one time. We'll schedule it in, see what he can do.
Pencil. Yeah, linked in the description. I'm trying to get to my own stream so I can actually
post it. But I am about to. In the meantime, why don't you, Shad, tell them why they should
subscribe to your channel as well. Well, it's interesting. I don't talk about
stuff on my channel. It's similar to what we talked about here. It's all about swords,
medieval stuff. No, I do talk about pop culture a lot and fantasy and how fantasy, you know,
is adapted into many different elements, role-playing games, the occasional video game review and stuff.
But I actually really enjoy coming on eFap to talk about things I don't get to talk about
on my channel. Like, you know, though I do have the occasional movie review, like I reviewed
Captain Marvel and others. It's only if I really love or really hate a movie, I'm prompted to review.
But a lot of fun people do go check it out if you're interested in it.
I mean, I think a good start would probably be the Thanos swords video, right? That's an easy
one for them to get into. Yeah, it's Thanos's sword is dumb. Hey, it breaks cap shield. Okay.
So it can't be that good. It's objectively good.
I've made a whole video is that so watch that if you want to see my take.
Yeah, both linked in the description. And then I guess that's bullshit. When's your new video
coming out? No fucking clue, dude. I'm chipping away at that son of a bitch.
Well, it's a slow process. They can continue to see you pop up over on the old eFap. We bring
people together here. That's a sad set at the beginning. So it's objectively true.
Wonderful. True. I would be willing to come back as long as it's before the 26.
But yeah, as insane as it sounds, I will be back in like a half hour. We'll have a nice break so
that we can stand up walk around and then discover maybe how we're going to waste the rest of our
lives. Oh, that's gonna be good. The super chats will be read as a collective next stream. So this
one will be broken up on its own. It'll is pretty much all about homecoming. The next one will not
be about homecoming. Well, it will be to a degree. Yes, I've got a video on the way. I'm slaving over
the episode five one. It's going to be like two hours. It's taking ages. It's just like Captain
Marvel. It'll come out. I swear to God. There's people who are saying like, he's never going to
do it. He's just saying years. I was like, no, it's coming. It's going to come out. It's just going
to take a while. I swear to God. And then TFA things will happen too. Oh, it's so I hate
disappointing fans, but I this is why I don't promise a date because it would be even worse.
They'd be even more upset. But yes, we shall return. Thank you for watching everybody. See you soon.
