over and over again. I think Adam, do you agree with me a bit on that? I don't know.
Yes, of course. That's why everybody complains that there's so many foreign and independent
films on my lists. It's because a lot of the ones that I enjoy are ones that are really kind
of like out there. I usually, when I'm excited for a movie, it's because I expect it to offer
something different than, you know, what you could typically find just by, you know, seeing
what is the most advertised or popular movie of the year, right? The only valid complaint about
you, Adam, is that you haven't completed your Synecdoche New York review. I'm working on it.
It doesn't mean I don't enjoy these films. I think we all enjoy these films, right? They can
all be enjoyable. But at some point, repetition is kind of the only word you can use to describe.
No, I, you know, I don't like restaurants. There's some chain restaurants that are really good,
but, you know, I think if I lose the analogy, I want to wow my sample when it's like I haven't
had before. Less analogies, more examples. Yeah, I don't get how like Ragnarok is like
homecoming is like Civil War. Yeah, well, Ragnarok is like Ragnarok is a bit of a different movie.
I would agree. I disagree. Hold on a second. I think you can you can. Ragnarok is a galaxy
movie, but okay. Well, okay. See, there you go. Because that's the thing. It's a train of thought,
but it's not the same movie like James Gunn's interpretation and the same as Taika's. But
I agree with what you're saying. I still think if we boiled it down to production, it's the the
fact that the like, especially Thor Ragnarok, a lot of stuff just doesn't look like it's really
happening. It just feels fake. It feels empty. And that's what I don't like. I just don't like
not the writing. I think the writing has solid points. I think mauler would be on the other side
of this argument. Yeah, I'd like to actually I don't think that we would ultimately disagree
because mauler you and I usually agree on a lot of things. But I I think that my issues with the
Marvel Cinematic Universe. Should we start? Should we start? Well, so I've got bad news.
The last time this happened, I had to nuke the like, it's permanently live, I think the previous
stream, even though I'm not streaming it anymore, which means I can't do anything with it now. It
will just stay stuck at live forever. I can unlist it. But as far as YouTube is concerned,
it's it's like alive and well. And it'll just I had this exact issue the other process. And
it'll never be a thing I can download. Like it's just going to be fucking malignant to my stream.
Oh, yes. Well, what have you ever considered recording it while you're streaming so that
it wouldn't get lost if I mean, well, this is a really new problem.
Like eventually it's a very yes, it's a it's a really new record. Everything I stream.
Yeah, I know. But listen, this is a new problem that has just apparently happened to you.
We've gone through like sixty seven episodes.
It's alive. The chat is saying it's alive. And well, no, there's so there's a second stream
now with the same title and everything. Unfortunately, this will be what people assume
was the entirety of, you know, if it actually works this time, it doesn't just randomly screw up
while the other one. I don't know how to fix it. It just stays live.
I don't know either. I had no I had this exact same issue their day when I tried to make my
Star Wars funeral stream and it would just it started cycling my stream keys. Like it just
started making new stream keys every five seconds. And I was like, what the fuck am I supposed to do
with this in in three years on YouTube? I have never seen that happen. So I think talking about
Star Wars in particular is a bit of a no, no. But in particular, YouTube seems to be a shit
fest. What a shock. Who's surprised? How long it's had the stream gone for? Because theoretically,
I could just hopefully get the playback working to the point where I can just record the whole
thing. If I leave it record, you know what I mean? Yeah, it was four hours and 40 minutes.
Yeah, apparently that is accessible. If that stays accessible, I might be able to rescue
that portion of the stream at the very least. But yeah, no, that's unfortunate. I don't know
what this thing means. That's fine. I don't even I don't know that that's not your internet. It's
not your internet. It's YouTube being a big day. Sorry, man. Yeah, I got two live streams right now.
Apparently, it's like, no, I don't. That's awesome. Rated one on the 31st of December,
created the other on January 1st. Hey, welcome to the new year. Welcome to the news. So it's
still six hours. I'm in 2019. I'm in the past my day. It's okay. You'll get here eventually.
Yeah, I'll actually take a serious look into the whole like recording it while streaming it
thing from now on. That sounds like a my plan. You can you can have it automatically record
when you press the stream button. Yeah, it's not that hard. It's not that hard.
Don't talk about hard things rags. You get me all aroused. Oh,
yeah, I'm assuming it doesn't it doesn't tax the machine that much then.
No, it's still you can set your recording settings too. I mean, like it doesn't have to be a super
high bit rate, especially with this format of stream. It's not like it's not like you're doing
like 4k video games or anything. I think even like if you have the exact like if you take the box
that makes it so that your stream and recording uses the exact same settings, I think it doesn't
strain the CPU that much extra because it's doing the same amount like the same encoding,
and then it sends it off to the stream and then to your hard drive. Okay, it calls it once and
sends it off twice. Did that make sense? So I don't think it's actually doing that much extra work.
All right, I just have your stream settings the same as the recording settings, which I believe
the recording would be capped at the same settings, depending on which version of OBS you have says
we're live with 1300 watching. Hello. Hello, everybody who apparently hates me now.
You'll be fine.
Oh, I don't I don't really care. No, I don't I don't mind. Because because here's the thing,
I'm actually interested in having this conversation because I've never talked about this before with
anybody. Oh, I came at mauler with the comic book argument. And by the end of it, I was convinced
Oh, I don't care about the are you against rags always makes you feel
listen, listen, when I when I say when I bring up the comic book stuff, it's like,
here's a thing that come of the comic books kind of did maybe better.
Or the things that come books did worse. That's my only point. And my only point in the entire MCU
thing is that I don't want to see the MCU go the way of the comic books, because the comic books
kind of suck. Yeah, I just feel like it's entropy. They're eventually just going to run out of
content that's going to be like, they can't reproduce it. They don't have the comic book
side of Marvel doesn't produce content anymore. That's as interesting as it used to be. So they
can't make movies based on that content. So the factory that's exist, they're not going to touch
like x statics. x statics would make a fantastic TV show. But they're never going to do that,
because it's too weird. Well, the TV is too expensive to produce on the level of a Marvel
movie. Like it, let's say you have an average cable network like HBO show is budgeted around
$14 million an episode to maybe 18. And then you combine that up, the whole season is basically the
cost of one movie. And the MCU movies cost twice that plus you multiply that in by two for the
advertising for the movie. So for them to do a television show, especially like people forget
about like the Netflix and the streaming thing, the economics of it haven't been fully worked out
yet. Like Netflix is super in the hole. Amazon doesn't have to be profitable on the video side
because they have the Amazon shipping company basically to back them up. And Disney Plus,
they don't have a program that's equivalent to that. So a lot of these companies, they don't have
the the faith in the content to invest in the television series on the same level as they do
for a movie, they'd be just too expensive, be like $25 million an episode to actually get a movie
look to a TV show. I will fix chat in a moment. Hopefully I wouldn't have lost the five hours.
I will try and find a way to to rescue it. It's just unfortunate. Yeah, it hopefully it should
have been saved by YouTube. But who knows this website is. Yeah, the the previous stream just
went unavailable for me. I was I've probably did it so I don't like encourage people to be confused
by it basically. I've got a new chat to use now apparently. So it thinks the other stream is still
going. Yeah, that's what it did to me the other day. Last time I did that it didn't end for like
hours and hours. And I eventually had to just delete it to get rid of it. Yeah, I can't remember.
No, yeah, there was I think I had that issue once might not have been the same issue.
But I had to like, there's like a weird live streaming tab. There's like several different
ones in the manager. And I forget which one but like, I found one where like at the top right,
I just pressed and stream or something like that. I don't know if that's the same issue or not. Or
if you've tried that was it because there's like a live control panel thing. Is that what that is?
So it's it's something in there. I don't know. I've rarely ever live streamed to YouTube. So
but there was a point where it went on forever. And I had to like go back into it and press
like a button to literally end the stream through YouTube. Oh my goodness. Regardless of whether or
not. I just found the button. Yeah, regardless of whether or not you're streaming to OBS,
like it's unlike Twitch, you can't just start and stop with OBS. You have to like physically end
it through YouTube, I believe. Really? Oh my gosh. I've had to do that before for sure.
Okay, well, I just ended it as far as it's concerned. I guess we'll see what happens.
Yeah, and then okay. Your video manager in like 24 hours.
What I can do instead is release them both as part one, part two. Because I guess like we did
episode 50 as part one, part two, part three. So it's not like it's breaching any kind of
continuity, right rags? Right. We have to keep your continuity with.
Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Well, in that case, yeah. I don't know. I should probably start. I don't
know how long I'll be able to last in terms of like 12 hours or not. So I should probably start
reading Super Chance. If anyone else would like to sort of eject at this point, this would be
probably a pretty good juncture. I wouldn't want to force anyone out. I'm just saying in case you
wanted to. I'll probably head out then. I'm super fucking tired. Oh, goodnight. I want to have the
beat. So I'm staying on. Do you want to plug plug your Twitch? Ah, no. Oh, I don't really subscribe
to Fortier guys autism on Twitch. Um, it'll be in the description of these videos. He streams once
per year at this point. When was the last time you streamed? I don't know. A couple of months ago.
Fucking worthless. Hey, man. I do other things. Name a single thing. I bought jeans last night.
Pull them up high and tight. No, but uh, it's been fun. I didn't know how to deal with that.
Okay. So anyway, I've, uh, contributed to the, uh, conversations where I could
as much as others, but that's been here on, but yeah. See ya.
What a nerd. He's gone. He is gone forever. All right. Where do I find the debate?
Me to debunk me on, I don't even know what we're talking about. Um, one V one. Oh, yeah. One V one
me on, uh, um, Marvel care. I don't even know what it is. Like people are like super mad at me now.
Like, because I don't love the Marvel cinematic universe, which I'm sorry. I was under the
impression that most of like half of our families really does seem to have a very big issue with
most of the MCU. Like talking positively about the MCU, they'll be like, why are you talking
positive about the most normie content ever? I'm getting very aggressive messages on Twitter.
And it's like, whatever, whatever, you know, but I wasn't expecting that because I,
I kind of thought most people had a mixed opinion on the MCU, but apparently,
oh no, you cannot think negative. You can't even say like, I don't love it.
I didn't know that that was, I can, I can just help you out. Black Panther,
Captain Marvel fucking even like, I didn't know that you didn't say that like you didn't love the
MCU. There's loads of films in the MCU that are just terrible. I didn't, I wasn't aware of that,
of that, of that particular thing, but I will say this, um, who, who, uh, not, not prepared for that
shit. Uh, Mike, I guess, I don't know what was, what was the big actual contention that I didn't
think that, uh, I didn't think that some of the characters had the best character development they
could have had, which, oh, like I said, I would have really liked Iron Man. I would have really
like Tony Stark to have been more of Ultron's father as, as, uh, it was the case with Hank
Pym in the comic books. And I'm not saying that everything needs to be the same. It needs to be
the same as the comic books. I'm saying that was a better story. See, I think that you just need to
not take a personally that the chat is being a meme center. I don't know.
Because like the idea of a better, a better story or not. I'm not exactly sure if that applies
anymore just because of saturation. Like people know Spider-Man in and out. They already know the
Ben dying in his arms, whatever story. So then when they introduce into the Spider-Verse or
end of the Spider-Verse or whatever, it provides an alternate version of that story that you're
not expecting, even though it's the same story that you're coming for. I think the chain restaurant
thing that YMS said earlier, Adam, you know, that was a great thing because that McDonald's won't go
out of business just because you prove to them that the meat quality isn't good because that's
not why they're there. And even though you can say that that's diminishing the product,
I don't think that it is in the minds of the people that actually care about it in that way.
I don't think it's the equivalence between the comic book and the movie either
because the comic books have already done what the movies have gone are going through now.
And yeah, when I say chain restaurant, I wasn't even necessarily implying fast food like the keg
or something, you know, like, you know what you're going to get. It's nice food,
but you can only, you know, some people want to have it all the time. Other people,
you know, might want something different after a while.
I also think that I was thinking there's something to the idea of if a Marvel movie
is like a hamburger, there's a range of quality that you can get. You can get a gourmet hamburger
that's twenty five dollars and it's amazing and you can get a generic one. And I think that the
popular entertainment that Marvel produces is exactly in the right realm for it. And they've
learned from their mistakes. I think it's a great example of mainstream entertainment,
but it still has the same problems that we've been talking about before.
Yes, there are better comic book stories. Yes, there are.
Well, I'm not saying that, OK, all my entire point, if I can try to surmise this to get the
death threats to stop coming in, because wow, we guys. The thing is, all I have been saying
is that I think that the comic books have some good ideas. And actually, my point was that I
didn't want the movies to become the comic books because they think the comic books are ultimately
failures. That's what I've been saying. I don't know how else I can say that, but please stop
sending me your death threats on Twitter. Thanks. All right. There you go. Also, hi, South Pole. How
do you do? I am doing great. How is everyone else you're doing? Magical. Stream crashed.
Yeah, I saw it. I got a notification on my phone saying that you guys were streaming like, well,
you guys were streaming like four hours ago. Yeah. Don't know what happened. You honestly don't
know. It's some kind of maybe OBS. I really, we really don't know. But either way, I'm going to
I'm going to start reading out these messages from super chats now. So anyone is welcome to,
you know, jump in on anything they want to whenever they want to. It's been quite the stream.
Um, does anyone want to say anything before I start?
Oh, I guess not. As long as. How long do these usually go for? Oh, well. Yes.
Hours. Legitimate answer. The longest it's ever been. Rags probably like seven hours, I think.
Seven. Oh, for the super chats. Oh yeah. They can get kind of crazy.
Can get a little silly.
All right, then. Perfect timing. I was just about to start drinking. Yeah, excellent. I've been
drinking this whole time. It's still upsetting that the mean old Mr. YouTube did what it did,
though. Um, well, you didn't warn me enough, you son of a bitch. I cried for 30 minutes last night.
Oh yeah, that was from James Moore. I'm watching Buffy, a poor man. It's very emotional in the
latest seasons. I'm going to make Rags watch it one day just so he can relate to this this
commentary. Look up Quebec high speed wind road sign. Anyone recognize what that is?
Quebec high speed road sign. Quebec high speed wind road sign. No, I have no idea what that is.
Hey, Mahler. Do you mind if I ask a question really quick? I don't know if this has been asked,
but are you going to cover the Netflix avatars? Oh yeah, absolutely. Is that the next video or
do you have something else? Oh my God. A little ways off, but that's probably
that's the only reason my channel still exists.
All right, cause that your fury gives me.
That was all I wanted to interject. Sorry. All right then.
Cosmonaut snipes at you in his new video at 2350. Okay. Hooray.
It's all he does is snipe at me. The second he wants to have a conversation with these,
fucking welcome to it. I keep offering him and he's always like, Oh yeah, maybe. It's like,
yeah, you never will. He's not the type that really, um, is interested in actually having a,
uh, discussion, like a, like a level headed good faith discussion with someone he'll either
snipe at people or, you know, he'll respond to the, uh, the really dumb ass responses so he can
dunk on people. And like, when it comes to someone just trying to be nice with him and polite.
I saw a portion of his video. He says like, he's really tired of people saying that raise
and Mary Sue, and we've dealt with like powerful people throughout the series. And he references
Obi-Wan beating Darth Maul as an example of someone doing something overpowered. And his,
the reasoning is the Darth Maul killed Qui-Gon and Qui-Gon is Obi-Wan's master. So how did
Obi-Wan beat Darth Maul? It's like, what? This guy, has he ever watched like a sporting event ever?
I was just like bewildered. I was like, is that really what you go with compared to Ray? Like,
that's what you got. That's so weak. You know, it's funny cause I was, I was just on
smud boy's stream. And what I did before I got off was, uh, I read through a bunch of, um,
you guys have heard of TV tropes, I assume, right? Yeah. Okay. So TV tropes has a page called
common Mary Sue traits and I've screencapped like a bunch of them. I think there's like at least
20 that fit Ray to a T. And so I like, I read them all out. And as I was going through them,
I mean, people were thinking that I was done. I'm like, no, we've still got like another five
screencaps to go through. And it almost feels like it's a checklist that they were going through
to, uh, like make Ray into the ultimate Mary Sue. Like all of the essentials are right there.
I mean, it's pretty funny that there's a plot prevented her even from dying.
Oh yeah. The, um, uh, on the common Mary Sue traits list, there's, um, she's too good for the
sinful earth and will perform a heroic sacrifice to prove it. The story will often go out of its
way to ensure that she doesn't leave an ugly corpse, either by a method involving no external
physical damage or just not leaving a body to be recovered. Half the time it doesn't take anyway.
So there you go. Yeah. Well, yeah, this is the thing. And there's, there's people out there who
are saying like, she does not fit every parameter of a Mary Sue. And I'd be like, I think at this
point, the spirit of the Mary Sue of what like constitutes it. I'm pretty sure Ray meets it at
this point. Like really the question is a number of criteria that she fits. The question is,
were they trying to do it out of malice or was it just the incompetence of the people in charge
that don't know how to tell a good, well, I think that looking at the sequel trilogy as a whole
incompetence and inability is a probably the most likely option. I think so too, that because when
you see the inexperience of all the people that were involved in creating it and their inability to
face the criticism, what else can you say? Although Ryan Johnson, I think he did it out of
malice. Well, making him super strong. No, I think, I think that he used her as a bludgeon against
every other character. And the JJ Abrams take is that she's just amazing. Yeah. Like she's clearly,
she's like monolithic compared to Luke. Like that they have that shot where she's like trying
to hand him his iconic weapon. And he's like, No, the perfect example is rocks, ironically, where
if you gauge however powerful Jedi is by their force ability to lift something, she lifts the
most amount of things. No, Luke can barely lift up one rock standing on his head, which is impressive
to us as regular people. But Rey can hover in the air with all the rocks around her and then
flip out of it. That's some pretty advanced shit. I mean, I would actually assume that JJ did that
just to like have a cool visual and be like, look how far she's come. But then all of us are just
like, what the fuck? You show on the screen mean things. Someone in the chat pointed out that the
original Mary Sue, like what the trope is named after was actually a parody. So I think that
it was an apparent he was a legitimate Star Trek fan fiction. I thought that was a parody of like
that. No, it was not. No, it was a legitimate Star Trek fan fiction. Yes. Okay. That was a parody
too. It was not a it was not a parody. It was a legitimate Star Trek fan fiction. That's where
the term Mary Sue comes from. Yeah. And it's from it's from my side that they come from. I'm sorry.
It's from my people. Well, the Star Trek, the Welsh, the Welsh made. Well, no, I mean, how ironic
the trekkers or Trekkies, however you want to call them. But yeah, it's us. We're we're responsible
for that. The irony is that Trek is all about the science and logic and ethics of a situation.
So putting a Mary Sue into Star Trek is very stark. You can obviously tell when someone in
Star Trek has way too much plot. There's a lot of people saying it's a parody in the chat.
I don't think it was a parody. As far as I know, the original the original
story from which it originates was a legitimate story as far as I know. So I don't think it
matters anyway. If a character is a Mary Sue, what really matters is how shit I think. I just
think that whether it's a parody or not, it should just be renamed to rape help a teen instead of
saying that this character is a very serious. No, this guy Walker. Sorry, rags. I watched the
character. Oh my gosh. I watched the movie with no connection to the Star Wars canon. I just let it
do and say whatever it wanted. And I just did the one punch man. Okay. Face the whole movie. I was
like, all right. Yeah, she's a Palpatine. That's hilarious. Who came up with that idea? I was just
thinking like, as a writer, you have to be a complete hack to think that these choices are
good choices. They're not a singular good choice in the movie for fixing the problems that the fans
had. It's like they didn't even pay attention. Ross says that's a parody. Rah has spoken.
I'm not so sure of that, but I would have to see additional kind of stuff.
Well, I agree. The man is standing against the women. I stand alone.
If civil war, let's go. I stand alone with rags. I stand alone together with mauler.
Mm hmm. On on the civil war? No. On the Ray being a parody. Mary, the Mary Sue thing being
Mary parody. Oh, Mary parody. I don't. I'm going to stand on the sidelines.
The original fan fiction was legitimate. That's as far as I know. The original Star Trek parody
or the original Star Trek fan fiction was legitimate. I don't know if it's considered
parody in the aftermath, whatever. I am. I'm pretty sure that it was intended as a parody. It could be
read like I guess that some people could try to interpret it as a legitimate story, but
it's like 50 years old, 40 years old. Does it really matter anyway? It doesn't matter at all.
We have to know this. No, I just don't think that the original thing was a parody. I think
the person actually wrote that story legitimately, although I mean, I don't know. It doesn't matter.
Yeah, it doesn't. I guess you could ask like, is my immortal, is my immortal, the Harry Potter fan
fan? And that's obviously a parody. Are the super chats a parody or are they straight?
Well, I just have to say, holy shit. Based not for in the discord has said that it was a parody,
but every aspect of it was taken from actual fan fiction. Like the idea of it was there is an
actual fan fiction. People will not know this. Well, no, no, no. Like as an actual fan fiction
of Star Trek that existed prior to the Mary Sue parody. Yes. Yes. Yes. So when I am talking about
the same fan fiction. Yes. But wow. Oh my God, guys. I don't know if I had to go to sleep or
something, but wow, this is really bad. You are on eFap after all. Anyway,
Moer, have you invited Preston Jacobs to these? That name is familiar. What's Preston Jacobs do?
Preston Jacobs.
Hmm.
I'm going to find out. I don't think I've invited this person to eFap before.
That is that is that is my review in full. Happy new decade, my Ewoks.
So it's pretty racist. Rags, do you believe in any conspiracy theories?
Hmm. Conspiracy theories.
Do I believe in? I don't think so. I'm not like I don't think Bush did 9-11. I don't think the
world is flat. I don't believe the Illuminati exists. Epstein. Epstein definitely didn't kill
himself. Does the rise of Skywalker's Rotten Tomatoes score count as a conspiracy theory?
Honestly, I think it's too fishy. I don't believe it. There you go. That's two already.
That's sort of a conspiracy, I guess. I can't think of any big ones. I don't believe in ancient
aliens. I don't think. What are some of those weird like I don't think politicians are androids.
I don't believe in chemtrails. What about the Holocaust? What about the frogs being gay?
You mean the alleged Holocaust? Yeah, that one. Yes, I think the Holocaust did happen.
That was already established when DX. That was such a weird moment.
Happy New Year, Rags, Mauler, and all of Efap. Happy New Year. 2020, the year of the Ewok.
Doesn't that have been 2019? Or I guess it begins now.
J Long going to set it in motion. Or Quinton and J Long going, I suppose.
Please react to Emu War, the movie on Efap with all of our favorite Aussie Ewoks.
Emu War. Emu War.
Is that like a. Oh, yeah, you don't know about the Emu War. Someone said aliens exist, Rags.
Ancient aliens. I don't believe in the ancient aliens theory.
No, the Australians tried to kill a whole bungle of of of Emus and lost.
And the aliens stopped them. I do think they're aliens out there somewhere.
But that's basically just one of those probability kinds of arguments with the universe and the
size. That's why we need that's why we need to build a.
Space wall. Keep up their aliens from our Earth.
Can you imagine how good an alien would be at a job?
All those arms and eyes and stuff, and they're going to take.
How do you call us Ewoks? We like African fairies. Oh, like a subculture.
Reemassives. Apparently we annoy people by streaming on this this night.
That must have been it. Wait, you told me I killed Padme in my anger.
Yeah. Well, then how was she able to give birth to twins?
That doesn't add up. Well, I told you it was true from a certain point of view.
I mean, you could if someone's close to giving birth and dies, you can save the babies for sure.
Right. Oh, yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
I mean, if I mean, if you could like six months in and stuff like that, you could save a baby.
We're getting pretty good at being able to save babies.
It's still a pretty poor explanation for killing off Padme and making a dramatic
changeover for dying of sadness is totally a good thing. You're you're a hateful, toxic Buddha.
Oh, she's lost the will to live. Oh, such a like what?
Bitch, she's a woman. That's why that's why he said no at the end of the movie like that.
He was like, I don't I don't believe this script. That's ridiculous.
Will human crab rags ever return? I don't think so. No, I don't think so.
Don't don't don't be sad. It won't happen again. Smile that it happened at all.
What are they referencing? A long time ago in a video, I referenced my avatar
and I and I was talking about avatars for just a moment. And so for just a brief moment, I
I got a hermit crab and put. I like the shades on it. Oh.
All right, then all the time can have this year back. It was a ripoff.
He's not going to take it back. No refunds.
2020 is the year Boris will reform the empire. Oh, my God.
People are saying it's the end of the decade, but the decade ends in 31st of December 2020.
In Gregorian calendar, there is no year zero. So decades are xxx one to xxx zero.
Well, that's if you're assuming that it's the year 2020.
Is that how long you think the earth is? The earth is obviously six thousand years old
because the Bible says is that a concern? Is the Bible a conspiracy theory?
Don't kids because I released like a calendar that has like it's like 12000 or something.
The actual or I don't say 12 billion or something ridiculous. I can't remember what it is,
but the account is like based on something completely different for the actual year of
the planet stuff is cool. It's like the year four point six billion.
Yeah, Rex, I would I'd consider like young earth creation would
technique young earth creationism. Sorry, could technically count as a conspiracy theory because
of the whole like, well, why is everyone in school teaching by the earth is billions of
years old and not just six or eight thousand. So probably counts.
Jesusly room. It's just his opinion on gate.
That sound familiar to me. It's Stein's gate. No, I know exactly what you're talking about.
If you look at these symbols, then you will be activated and become an M.K. ultra victim.
I know it's a conspiracy that gifted and talented education programs were
secret government experiments into people that had
occipital lobes or something like that. And they have like psychic powers or indigo children.
It's all part of the same conspiracy idea. Yeah. But I mean, really, autism telekinesis
if show me the difference, I don't I don't see one. It's technically it's not psychics.
It's empaths. We can read people's emotions. No, I'm just kidding.
It's like that with my eyes. No, I just I love the idea that Rags has met several people with
autism who could move things with their mind. He's just like, Oh, yeah, isn't that just?
Yeah, of course. Yeah. Something up for debate. I'm confused. I would. Obviously, they can.
Hello, my Ewoks. Also, hi, Rags. Hello. I haven't seen you guys since last year.
Yeah, it's been a while. It has been a while. Hello, all you massive Ewok n words now. Oh,
no, no, no. Oh, my goodness. Ewok n words. We didn't like that.
Efab has gone me through a lot of tisms this year. The banter debates, memes and wholesome
moments have been amazing to watch. Thank you all so much for being the best show on YouTube,
which is an objective fact. Damn. All right, I got to head out.
All righty. Well, I'll see you later. I get ready. Thanks for coming on. I've been
along, dude, and it's been fun talking. Hopefully it wasn't a disaster or anything.
I don't know. Nice meeting you.
I was just organizing my schedule for a film fest I'm going to anyway. So
it's just literally in front of my computer anyway. So anyway, yeah, thanks for having me.
Catch you around, dude. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.
And did you want to hop out as well, Aiden? Yeah, I got to go. Things are getting a little bit
spicy. Thanks for me on. I usually really like being on, but wow, we people do not like the fact
that I'm not a massive fanboy of the MCU, but I will maintain the position that I don't love
every movie in the MCU. Don't let them don't let them get to you. Your opinion is valid.
I was going to say you have a valid opinion. You were the selection of people who would rip
into Marvel movies depending on which one you're talking about. Seriously, like we've had a whole
podcast with it. Is this the same chat that ships smaller and Aiden and I just some other messages
just been kind of like, wow. I mean, I don't I'm not afraid of anything because I know that I'm
outside of anyone's capacity to actually deal with me or to hurt me. But like, holy shit.
My only thing is that, like, could it kind of be like somebody doesn't love a movie series
and it's OK. Yeah, because ultimately, this is just a movie and the most cynical people
run this business. So anybody that's fanboying or fangirling to the point where you're attacking Aiden,
think about what your life is like. Jesus, are people fucking doing that?
Um, like, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. But yeah, yeah. No, don't tell me these people ruin
your Happy New Year. It's a new year. Absolutely. Yeah. Thank you for having on. I didn't mean this
and I didn't mean this at all. And I actually just want to have a conversation about the MCU because
I think it's interesting. But it is an interesting one. It's not one we have as much as we probably
should. Yeah. Agreed. I'd be willing to do it another time, but I wasn't expecting that
tonight on New Year's. But yeah. Bye bye, guys. Goodbye. See you later. Thanks for coming on.
We'll catch you. Nice meeting you. And then there were five. Only men now. Well, that confirms it.
Um, a bunch of bunch of incels running a red pill podcast. Oh, yeah. All right. Um,
hello, long man in Raggleton. Hello. Hello. Have you heard about Boyega talking on the
Disney trilogy in Reylo? Yeah, I think what do we what's the take? He thinks it's weird, right? Or
does he? Who, John Boyega? Yeah, like I from earlier, I can't remember exactly what. Oh,
absolutely. He thinks it's weird. Have you have you seen his tweets? I guess I haven't seen
probably a lot of. Yeah, he's put out some odd ones. Let me let me find let me find the tweets
that he's made. It's pretty interesting. Okay, yeah. Okay, I found it. I'm linking it to you
in the chat right now. Hold on. Paste. There we go. That's the that's the tweet that's blown up
at one hundred five thousand likes. Someone's contract has ended. Well, he said he didn't want
to come back anyway, or at least on Disney Plus. But yeah, he's he's definitely making it the
whole time. Yeah, he's definitely making fun of the stupid romance and thing. And it's funny,
I actually think that there is more reason for Poe and Finn to be together than for Ray and Kylo.
Like, I think there's more reason for Finn and Ray to be together based on The Force Awakens.
That was the whole curve that they were trying to go for. He's clearly interested in her. That's
the reason why he keeps trying to follow her. But now he's been relegated to the friend zone
because Ray low or something. Ray friends on the guy that was protecting her from the guy that she
ends up kissing at the end of the trilogy. This movie is a perfect example of how culture has
just completely lost its mind. It's just like, yeah, this sounds like a good idea. Let's go with
this. This is new and interesting, even though it doesn't make any sense. Let's just run with it.
Um, yeah, I mean, I want to hear more from him. I would interview the shit out of it.
I'd be like, so John Boyega, come on to come on to EFAP. We'll talk about how much Disney screwed
over your character. And then we'll talk about all the different things your character could
have been and how well you would have acted it because you're you're you're good shit.
Yeah, I liked your acting. I think John is going to have a career beyond this.
I can see I think he's pretty talented.
That's pretty good. The only talented, untalented person in this movie is fucking
Wow. Hmm.
We we do. Is that the consensus? Is it not that she's not being directed to do certain things?
Is that she's a bad actress?
Have you seen any other movie that she's been in or?
No, that's why I'm asking if that's the consensus. I'm actually I don't even I don't think I've seen
anything else with her. And like I haven't seen anything else with her either.
She just does this very like up in your face English dramatic acting style where it's just
there's not very much variation on her character. It's not very natural. It's all very
what's the word for it's not pretentious, but it's it's shit. That's a good word for.
Yeah, you know, she can't close her mouth.
Oh, she closed her mouth when she died.
Yeah, that seems to be the only time that she does do that. The only other thing I've seen
her in she was a corpse. Okay, well, there's the other time I'm not going to specify it,
but I'm sure it happened. So yeah, eat the fuck out. I doubt it.
She was on murder in the Orient Express and she looked completely out of place in a period picture.
And they expect her to have a career. It's not.
I'm circling back to John Boyega. I've recently watched Pacific Rim Uprising,
which was a mistake. Don't watch that movie. And he was still kind of enjoyable to watch in it.
He's very like he seems to get into it no matter what role he's in.
And he wants to be a star for sure. And he has never been given the chance. And I don't think
that people that look at him view him as a star because of his
business.
Glib, Jay Longbone in chat attributed you saying that Daisy really is untalented to me.
Well, we kind of look alike, but we do look and sound alike.
I love Jay Longbone. She's one of my favorite. You just shut that pot instead of the words
he has mode of pleasure.
I'm sorry. I just I find it funny when Glib, someone who actually does look like me,
I've seen pictures of him being mistaken for me just from speaking.
It's great. But yeah, anyway, I'm sorry. I just I find it interesting that there's
so many talented people in Star Wars, especially Oscar Isaac, who has been
one of the most powerful actors of our time. I feel like if you watch X Mahina,
Mashina, whatever, however you pronounce that.
You have Hux and Poe in it, and they're actually behaving as actors.
Inside Luland. Oh, wow, that really is them.
Whatever. He was good in that. And it's because he has the ability to emote without having to
say a lot of dialogue and speak a lot of lines. He just it's in his face. It's in the way that
he carries himself. He was good in drive. And then in this movie, he's given this task of
what JJ Abrams does where he goes, all right, so you're doing this thing. And I want you to say
or I want you to say catchphrase or line, or I want you to do witty banter, which is
the Marvel style of making films. And you need more comedic actors for that.
So they hired all these drama actors, and then they gave them all this kitschy,
comedic line dialogue. So it's completely outside of the realm of their acting abilities. And then
you have all these older actors that could lend some weight to the performance and to the story.
And they're given nothing to do. So it's a perfect storm. And I'm just so grateful that
we got to experience it together. Okay.
Watch Cowboy Bebop, you massives. Freaking weeb stuff. I did it already.
God damn it, long man. The one time you start an efap and I don't have my earbuds. Also,
hi, Rex. Hello. Talk about Attack on Titan Manga Chase. He's already gone. No such luck.
Happy New Year, my fellow members of the toxic brood. Happy New Year. How long is it until
yours, Rex? Until what? Happy newtisms. It is. Well, right now it's 852. So three hours,
three hours, just just over three hours, just a teeny tiny bit over three. Man,
my day's always over again. 952 for me. Oh, my God. Oh, yeah. How are you, Mel? Piece of shit.
Oh, all right. Fuck you. I'm pizza. I just finished Divinity I with my friendo.
Divinity II is better. I haven't played either of them. I'm just trying to be controversial.
I think Original Sin II is better with mods as a base game. I don't know. Jury's still out.
Agreed. Get that jury in. Fuck. I mean, they're both good. It's just trying to figure out which one's
better. Oh, a lot of turn based. What's that perspective called? Isometric games are like
that. French. Shout out to XCOM Long War. I will spend the beginning of the new year in a bus
because in France, all the trains don't run. Thank you for the stream. No problem. I thought
the French always ran. There are more than this. Not you don't just run in order to retreat or
flee or give up. You could you could be in a moped wheelie tricycle. There's lots of ways.
Rags. Why are you so limiting? You could crawl away. You could. All gay, though.
More. What do you recommend I say to a person who graduated with a film degree and thinks
that they are better at judging movies than me? Hi, Rags. Hello. That's not really enough to go
on. It depends on what they're saying and what the subject is, I guess, but like it is pretty
amusing when someone pulls the credentials on you. It just is pretty much just like, oh,
have you given up? Yeah, basically, you can just say to somebody that a film degree in the film
business is meaningless. You can you're now fit to be a production assistant and work 16 hour days.
Doesn't mean shit to me. Yeah, like you should be like, OK, so what's your argument?
Go wrangle some walkie talkies and get the food for the talent. And if you fuck up, you're fired.
Damn. Hello, all my Ewoks. Tell Chase that I also think part three is objectively overrated.
I'm sure he'd appreciate that.
Happy New Year's, Efap. Happy calendar increment. My E words also high rags.
Hello. 2019, the year where film franchises came to die. Not just film. We got TV as well.
At least with Game of Thrones, I'm trying to think of, is there any more TV that died in 2019?
Oh, yeah, but that's more of a literal death. I know. Makes me sad. Translate to
that woman was a stillbirth. So I don't know. That's the way to describe it. Yeah.
Yeah, I miss that one so much. I really do. I legitimately do that woman.
Are you sure that's a stillbirth and not an abortion?
No, no, I think it was technically worse. It wasn't a bolted. It came out.
It's alive to a degree. The Super Chat said franchises, though, not just television.
Is it is it like a stillbirth in the Walking Dead universe?
Um, the zombie baby. I certainly heard that the Walking Dead got really bad over time.
Oh, it got bad in like 2015 or 2014. Some people would argue earlier. I would say it was like
watchable for the first five seasons and it became unwatchable by the seventh.
People saying 2020 is going to suck. Just play video games. Video games look pretty.
Yeah, relax. It's not that big of a.
Did you guys hear Ralph Sapay is making a video about how Joker is not a good movie?
OK, well, we can't wait to see where it is. Yeah, I can't wait to cover it.
I hope it's well argued. I think that that'd be that could be the the point where he jumps to
shark if he's going to try and say that Todd Phillips isn't that good a filmmaker and it's
going to be embarrassing. If he says that that Joker is just a ripoff taxi driver
and King of Comedy, I'm going to fucking scream. It's it's such a such a fill in for criticism.
Like, oh, this is like Taxi Driver. Go away. It's oh, it's like this good movie criticism.
I love good movies. Yeah, we actually we still want to do an effect on that. I got to also watch
King of Comedy and Taxi Driver with Rags. It'll be fun. Hooray. Then you can see how they were
copied. Someone asked me the other day, what is your what are your movies to suggest for 2019?
And all I could think of was Joker and The Lighthouse. But it's like shot, of course.
I mean, the reboot of the story. I haven't seen that was really good.
Once upon a time in Hollywood. Oh, yeah, of course.
Parasite.
I've heard only good. Yes, parasite as well. I've heard only good things about I've heard
only good things about uncut gems. I just haven't really had a time to to watch that.
And when I when I do see it, I'm just going to refer to as uncut jebbs.
You got to go see Underwater with my dad when that comes out.
See if we can get ourselves a good underwater monstery spoopy movie.
That sounds interesting to me. What did you think of the abyss?
The James Cameron 2001 Space Odyssey movie.
The abyss. I don't I never saw abyss. I saw I saw the sphere.
Oh, man, you should probably see the abyss for a movie.
Two thirds of the abyss. I was actually much more invested in the character
conflict and the situation at the bottom of the sea or whatever. But
you know, other things start happening. And then I was I was a little less interested in those things.
Yeah, that's that is the takeaway that I had as well watching the movie.
I think that movies of that kind, like AI or 2001, where you have to get to that
finale that has that level of cosmic metaphor, it becomes really hard to tell the audience
and keep them in the movie. It messes with your suspension.
Hello and welcome my Ewok. Hello.
Hey, how's it going, Jay Long? Oh, I'm good.
Missed the. No, don't be why that's sorry, but braid.
And you've literally missed him by like 10 minutes, too. It's going to be depressing.
Yeah, no, it's OK. And I'm here now.
Yeah, metal's here. Let's go. Hey, Jay, can I ask you a question?
I want to ask Jay Long about a question. How did you start with the 50 shades of
gray stuff on your YouTube channel? Can you explain that?
Yeah, you didn't need to mention that.
It's your top content and pisses me off.
Oh, yeah. Oh, well. To be perfectly honest, I am a fan of those books. And to a certain extent,
the movies were the first two movies. I like watching them. It's like I don't want to say
guilty pleasure because I don't really feel guilty about anything I enjoy. But I see the potential
in it. And it's like I'm watching it because I like coming up with ideas and how to change
everything. Would you do you write your own content? Writing, I used to like I used to
write a little bit like fan fiction and shit. But have you have you thought about writing a romance
story? Yeah, that's actually been mulling it over a little bit to my OK, because I know that woman
is your inspiration or that what was that British movie that you just reviewed called? That was
hilarious. Yeah, it was the protector from Passion Flix.
I'm sorry, I just everybody should watch that video. It's it brings me great joy
to see tear apart these terrible romance movies, because who does that, right?
It doesn't have to be given. Yeah, because it's just it's just.
They they well, they're on the right track sometimes like, OK, we got a strong silent dude.
It's kind of like got a dominant personality. OK, fine. Chicks like that. They like the fantasy of
that, whatever. But then like they take it too far and the motherfuckers like like in the movie,
like in the protector, like he immediately, as soon as they fuck, it's like he gets immediately
this creepy and weird like, oh, he starts ordering for her and shit.
I'm like, what's up, just you poked it once. OK, that was a weirdest fuck movie.
Yeah, sometimes you'd be like fire. Yeah. Anyway, I didn't mean to go off on that
tangent. I just wanted to give you that appreciation real quick. Sorry.
Oh, yeah, that's all right. All right. You've given us some appreciation.
Now we're going to indict her. You're not covering all of the infinity
episode to some episodes, and that's disappointing because they're so funny.
There you go. All right.
But it's just I just don't give I don't give a single shit about you.
Don't have to. It's just so funny. OK, I don't I don't doubt that.
I don't I don't doubt that at all. But it's just like I got so much so many other worthwhile
things to do, like my fin video. I was going to do that.
And I'd rather focus on that until Batwoman comes officially comes back.
Do you guys so do you guys have any familiarity with the TV show
Arrow at all, like the first DC CW show?
So it has like the worst Mary Sue I've ever seen. Her name is Felicity Smoke.
And what she does in season four is she she nukes a town of 10,000 people
and doesn't suffer any consequences for it. I'm not kidding you.
She does it. In fact, season five has a character who I believe his name is Ragman.
Funny enough. And he he he finds out like he's actually from that hometown that she knew.
And it's kept a secret from from him that she's responsible for her nuking it.
And once he finds out he like forgives her within the same episode of him finding out about it.
It's ridiculous. And that that happened like four years ago.
Yeah, I'd only seen the first season and I was like, Oh, it's a good show.
But it's kind of like, you know, ripping off Batman a little bit.
It's kind of like Batman II. And I was like, OK, it's good, but it's not quite that original.
But now, like the more and more I hear about the newer seasons, the more I'm just like,
what what the fuck happened? It seemed like such a decent show the first the first season.
Um, Arrow. Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, it was decent in the first season.
And the second season, I would say is like actually like pretty damn good.
And so I remember when the third season started, it just like it was a it was a noticeable
nosedive in quality from where it was in season two.
A lot of people say that it was still OK. And then after the the midseason finale where
Oliver Queen gets like stabbed through the chest with a sword and then thrown off a cliff by
Rachelle Ghoul, he he comes back to life, I guess, with because of some magical tea, I think.
And then everything afterwards just like snowballed into chaos.
And then season four was where it like completely derailed. The season four finale was so bad that
the subreddit for the show became a daredevil subreddit for a brief period of time as like
a joke with how angry they were with with the show.
Also, hello, Anna. How do you do? Hello. Hi, Rex. Hello.
I'm a little sick. Sorry. Yeah.
So full family of tisms tonight.
There's a lot of there's that cough going around.
Yeah, I have strep. So I'm just dying.
I'm not travel digitally. You need to be careful. Oh, no, I got a gas mask. I'll be fine.
Sure. You take the full course of Antebai. I'm going to catch the gaze.
All right. I'm going to I'm just going to do my best to try and read out these
between conversations. And it's okay to have tangents, people. Don't worry.
You guys seen Jenny Nichols ROS review. Haven't dared to watch it yet
myself. Hoping to see it on Efap. Anyways, Happy New Year, my Ewoks. Also, hi, Rex.
Hello. Happy New Year. And I haven't seen it yet.
Yeah, neither have I. I've I've heard mixed things.
Obviously, she defends how well she has the position that it actually ruins TLJ, if not
completely. I've seen it takes on Twitter. She's very upset that Razor Palpatine ruined everything.
Why the hell aren't you blocked? I don't know.
It's so frustrating. You out of everyone should have been the first one she blocked.
No, he's too prominent. What's the worst that would happen if she blocked me, Rex?
Like, well, it's it's a matter of her appearance. It's how she wants to appear.
She when she doesn't want to appear like she's cowardly enough to block you.
But all the other little people that nobody really cares about. Oh, yeah, she'll block them.
She's got a strong narrative. She must be like, he's he's constantly he's that guy who's like,
oh, debate me all the time. Doesn't that people have opinions says movies can be objectively
bad. He's a piece of shit. That sort of thing. Like, it's not like she wouldn't get support.
They can. I think it's strange. I also think Patrick Willems not blocking me is strange.
And I think that he muted me ages ago and he's just not realized he should have blocked me by now.
I'm surprised that they don't pay attention to you and their insecurities. Like, oh, what is was
well, they think I'm crazy or an idiot. What is that? What do I say? No, I'm surprised that
I'm not surprised that people block rags because of his attitude. But
well, what about my attitude? Well, then there's a problem with my attitude.
No, I just think that like what taxim was saying was that you like you don't add anything to it.
So I just take it that they hurt their feelings. So my feelings. I definitely do that.
And that's one of the reasons why I love you. That rags. Glib thinks you don't add anything.
Yeah. That's such fucked up. I'm going to block you on Twitter. Oh, my God. Yeah. What do you think of that?
I do it. Yeah. I can't actually block anyone within a suspended account. They won't let me know.
What what is the best thing you could say in like 180 or whatever characters besides like
something Sun Tzu said, like Twitter is just a way to make people look stupid.
That's my opinion. Anyway, yeah. Yeah. I haven't seen it. We might recover it. Who knows?
Yay. Just finished watching how to train your dragon. And now an Efap and Chase is back. I'm
going to nurse my drink and the bruise from my pre-op blood test and bathe in the massive. Oh, my.
Who needs a bruise when you've got the absolutely. And yes, how to train your dragon. I hear nothing
but good things. I only watched the one time and thought it was good, but I can't remember much
of anything from it, unfortunately. Is it the first time to train your dragon? Yeah.
The first one's a classic that will be like timeless or forever. And the second one is
terrible. And the third one is meh. It'll be timeless forever as opposed to timeless for
not forever. Well, I don't know. It's so timeless that it deserves being redundant, I guess.
You know, I always saw the first. I didn't see any of the other.
I don't see any of the other ones just to keep it that way. Don't do it.
And none of the other ones good. A lot of even the second is now second one's awful.
There's certain aspects of each that are good. Like I think they did a really good job in the
animation of aging hiccup. But I don't know. The second one I can deal with. The third one
just ruins everything. Yeah, I'd say. I mean, I can't remember what of the third one would be
ruinous outside of the fact that they kind of retcon the idea of Toothless being the only
Night Fury in existence because they then introduce a character who's like,
I hunt and kill Night Fury is like, oh, OK. So it explains why there's not very many. And then,
you know, there's only one other one left, which is the female. So I mean, it still kind of makes
sense. But the I don't want to ruin the movie for everyone. Yeah, it's not. Let's just agree that
the first one's the best and the only like really good one. And we'll leave it there.
It's funny how, like, we probably will never be able to cover every single film on E-Fap.
I know that sounds like obvious. I just mean like there's always going to be these
new topics and then people have a take and then just watch chat explode or something.
Like, what? You think this of this? It's like, oh. But yeah, enough. E-Fap starting at fourteen
hundred. Is it still too early for Alcatisms? No, it's never too early. It's nighttime in some
place somewhere. Right. So good. I'm sober. I didn't have anything to drink. I'm sorry to disappoint
people. Doesn't it piss you off when people say we are going into the next decade, even though
the next decade starts one one twenty twenty one. That's the second person to say that now.
When I have to start writing a two instead of a one, it's a new decade.
There you go. The Mandalorian is a shit version of Metal Heroes franchise. Go watch Space
Sheriff Gavin or Gavan if you want a silver armored badass slicing people with a sword.
Also Space Dragons. People want a Mandalorian story that references the past. Yeah, it's the
Mandalorian is the best example of fan service I've seen in a long time. Oh.
Oh my God. Oh no. Because Mandalorian is insanely incompetent and stupid. Constantly
retarded. Idiotic decisions. Absolutely. Absolutely. Episode four is terrible.
It's not. I remember the first episode of the Mandalorian. All of the two are bad.
He left his ship unlocked. Oh, you mean episode two. Oh, all right. Yeah. Where he's on Tatooine.
Yeah, he was somehow surprised that people broke into his shit in ransacked. It's pretty
interesting when in the last episode we find out he's got that like he's got that like system
where he says like he can lock down his ship to the point where nothing can breach it. And it's
like, why don't you just use that? Well, it's totally fan service logic because it's like,
oh, Hey, we got the Jollis. What if they actually did loot the protagonist and then they do it?
He also did it again in episode three, you know, Carl Weathers gets in,
gets in his ship before, uh, was it before or after Mandalorian got in there?
I think he comes. I can't remember. I can't remember if he appears from behind like a thing
or if he comes in right after him, but either way, he should have had his ship locked by that point.
I still think it's the best, uh, example of post George Lucas Star Wars content,
at least just the snippets of the first or so episode. I really got the vibe that we were in
the same universe as the OT. It just didn't have the same magic to it, which is hard to accomplish
when you don't have the same. I mean, I feel like it was written by someone who liked Star Wars,
but was incredibly incompetent at expressing that. Yes. Uh, like Dave Filoni, whoever it was,
who is responsible for it. Fucking rebels blowing up a base based on the fact they have
a ship with weapons on it. Fucking insane. Are they proud of it? And there's heroic music.
It's the most insane thing. Hooray. Murder. We killed all those people.
Yeah. So Dave, Dave Filoni did the clone wars and rebels.
Yeah. He just worked. No, no, I know. But what, what I'm saying is I went to Comic-Con in like 2011
and we went to the star Wars panel that had all these people. And my friend that was sitting next
to me, who's now, um, a producer for Shonda land or something like that right now, he said,
this guy looks like the saddest guy we've ever seen. And I was like, what the fuck are you talking
about? And we, it just, his personality came off like he was totally downtrodden and upset,
even though he was in the exact place that he wanted to be. So Dave Filoni and his ideas
versus the Lucasfilm story group's ideas, and then the priorities of John Favreau, or however
you pronounce his name, I feel like that's what makes the Mandalorian so schizophrenic is that
there's so many different influences trying to inject themselves into the story. And you get
different people and their perspective on it. And that is a good episode. And then you
get a different person and then that episode is shit. So it's very, there's no consistency
from the top down. I don't necessarily agree with that because Dave Filoni and John Favreau are
really good friends and they seem to see eye to eye, but it seems to be the higher episode.
Like we want a different person working on every episode and their hands are kind of tied. So when
they work together on something, I personally don't think either of them are the best writers,
but the intent is there and the heart is there. And so when you bring someone else in that doesn't
really understand Star Wars and just like, Oh yeah, I get to work on Star Wars. That's
kind of when shit goes and hits the fan. It's difficult. I'm planning on making a video
because I don't think that there's a definitive what Star Wars is that everybody can necessarily
agree on about like what the exact rules are. And even when they had the tiered canon system,
which I thought was a pretty good guide that like George's ideas were trumped off,
it wasn't perfect. There were still like errors between the different mediums and editors that
had to decide what Star Wars was. So if we had a Star Wars rule set and everybody stuck by it,
I would agree. And I would wholeheartedly endorse that, but I don't think that exists. And I think
that's what creates all these discrepancies and how the force functions and what rules space travel
has. At this point, don't worry about they don't worry about the feeling of Star Wars. Just worry
about just getting the world correct. And then we'll build ourselves up from there. That's the
that's what they should have done from the beginning. We want it to feel like a certain
thing is like, okay, have it feel like a certain thing in this pre-existing universe. And don't
fuck with that. You just have to have a well, Mahler, you brought the greatest thing I thought
to me with the predator example where it's like, all right, so how do you how would you make a sequel
to predator without retconning anything or introducing a canon? And I don't think that's
exactly what you said. But the idea of taking something that already exists, writing a story
into it without altering any of the rules or messing up the timeline that already exists
is a hot, it's a tall order. It takes almost more thought than it does to just create something
from scratch. And you have people that are hired to do this that have less experience than the
people who created the original thing, and less passion and understanding for the thing.
It's very difficult for anybody that's trying to be involved in that process, because films and
television are a collaborative art form. It's hard for all those people to get a singular vision out
when there's just no leadership. There's nobody that's saying, here's where the buck stops.
Here's where the rules are. Everybody calm down and let's do it.
That used to be George. Who is it now?
Ryan Johnson, whoever they chose for that day.
And that scares me. That's why I would be like, I'm not involved anymore.
I heard from people that I'm associated with, like Dennis Mirren, one of the model makers for
the originals. And he was asked about Star Wars and like what he thought about all the new films.
And he just laughed about it and was like, everybody that was involved already got their
money. So they don't really care. So I think that's the overall perspective now. And I feel
really bad for people that are diehard fans of canon and things, because I know for a fact that
the people that are in charge of the new generation of those things are not in it for the same reasons.
And trying to create a situation where people that actually care about the fans and what they
are connecting to and what the story is actually about to the whole audience is
really difficult. And I feel like I'm so grateful that there are people on YouTube that are critics
and that are people talking about the news and all that stuff that are on them about
creative decisions because otherwise they'd be making these decisions in a vacuum and they'd
completely ignore what the fans were talking about. I know I'm sure for a fact that people
like Red Letter Media have changed the industry and choices that were made. And I wouldn't be
surprised if people that are on this group chat right now haven't made a real impact. So keep
doing what you're doing, guys, because it's like otherwise you have a bunch of hacks that are in
charge and it's scary. We'll get a good Star Wars movie one day, right? Yeah. I mean, like Law of
Averages. Give it a few thousand attempts. We're all like, would they do it in a thousand? I don't
know. I just have a good movie in general. We had Joker one. One more. No, greedy.
And another entitled fan. Yeah. Oh, sorry. I just have to introduce this point again.
I think that it's a discredit. It discredits us by being fans. We're customers and we're
just not getting the product that we ordered. They need to address that. We're not just fans that
have like toxic opinions. We know what we're buying and they're changing the ingredients.
Yeah, but they don't care. They just want us to blindly accept it.
And they're not going to realize anything until, you know, they lose a lot more money than they
already have. It sucks, but I mean, that's the situation we're in.
Yeah. So how we deal with it is fascinating to me because it's like people need to create new
content and then start optioning it and step up and realize I think that because the standards
have dropped, they can do it too. Like you just need to know the problem.
All right then. When will the I Hit Everything discussion recording be released? So what we'll
do for that is just set aside a stream. It'll probably be fab 70 at the earliest now. Me and
Rags, if there's a guest, I don't know if there would be. Well, I'll just play it and we'll pause
to comment on it. Maybe if it or not, but it'll just be shown on an Efap. And I guess I'll have
to think about what the title that because I wouldn't want to make people think he was actually
here live, but I would want to put it in the title so that people, you know, would actually know
what's actually being done. But it's it was a good conversation and it'll be it'll be cool to get it
done. It's just obviously hasn't been suitable to do it in the last few Efaps. It's not really like
format wise doesn't really work. Yeah. Happy New Year's to Efap and all we need a catchy new name
for the new 20s. Oh, like instead of the roaring 20s, we need the tismy 20s or the clowny 20s,
I guess would be one. The clowny 20s. Anyone going suggestions? Hmm. No. All right, then.
We tried so hard. Yeah, I got to think about that.
The tismy 20s. We can vote on it.
Happy New Year, Moeller and Rags. Have either of you seen Cobra Kai would love a discussion on
that from the long man. Haven't heard good things, though. Yeah, I've I've heard very good things
about the show, like insanely good things. And the thing is, I was never passionate about
them. That franchise. So I was just like, oh, cool. I might check it out at some point, though.
It's no reason why I wouldn't. If you do check it out, get Jeremy from Geeks and Gamers on it
because he loves that show. Very well. Happy New Year Ewoks. I'm stuck at a family party right now,
so I can barely hear you over the music. I just broke up with my GF. Love you guys. Oh,
oh, I don't know whether that's good or bad news to you. So either way, I hope it works out as it
should. If it wasn't working, then I suppose that could be considered a good thing. Yeah. Get out
of a bad thing. You know, him saying that he broke up with his girlfriend sounds like that was his
decision and not hers. So I'm assuming probably a good thing. Maybe I'm hoping. Yeah, he said I just
broke up with my girlfriend, I suppose. Yeah, maybe. But yeah, I hope things work out. Hoping
to get my TROS video done soon. You guys are my biggest inspirations and I hope it shows in the
final product. Love you all. Good stuff, man. Get it out there. Get it done. Mine will be a little
late, but or late compared to people getting their reviews out. But it's long. I know that's
shocking, but I wanted to let you guys know. You never work anymore ahead of time. My video is
going to be long. Okay. Yeah. When's your video coming out? Loser? Yeah. Like next year, maybe.
Next year. Wait, really? Wait, wait. Next year, depending on where he lives. I was about to say,
hang on a minute. Oh my God. You're just darksed himself. Time's on.
Happy new year. May the dawn bless you. Absolutely. The closer look has a video on how great death
Stranding's world building is. Studio Binder has a video on how great the TLJ throne room fight is.
That's all the super chats. Oh, wait, there's a second one. What do you all think is better in
terms of gameplay? Okay, that seems to be a different thing. I'm assuming these are suggestions
for eFAB videos. I mean, the problem is, I don't know about rags, but like I have no interest in
playing Death Stranding. So when it comes out to PC, I'll review it and make fun of it.
And then how great the TLJ throne room fight is. I mean, that's a tough position to take these days.
That one's really tough. The best you've got is that it's flashy enough that you won't notice
many of the issues. It's like, I love how people hype that up. Like, yeah, wow. It was in slow
motion. That's so revolutionary. Well, this is this is a really big problem, I'd say though. It's
like, wait, are we supposed to actually value flashiness overcraft at this point? Then they
might be like, well, that is a craft to trick the audience. It's like, why can't you just have the
thing? Why do you have to trick the audience into thinking you have the thing when you can get the
thing? We're not talking about faking a speeder, right? Like, floating on the ground. We're not
talking about that. We're talking about choreography. This is a thing you can actually do. You don't
need to fake illusion, speed it up and make it look as having a kick three people away at the
same time somehow. Like, you don't have to. Why? Well, you need you need to actually have your
actors practice sword fighting for more than two weeks. You need to have them actually learn
something. And then you actually have to give them a style that exists in reality to mimic for
your lightsaber. That is what the business should be. Instead of people just being like,
oh my god, I'm getting 200 million dollars and I can build a set. I'm just going to do whatever I
feel like. I'm going to copy this. I said this before, but like, Ryan Johnson's quote is saying
like, they got the choreography down so well. He was like, free to choose whatever he wanted in
terms of filming it. I was like, man, you did not show that. Like, if that's true,
like you took all the worst takes.
But it just that just shows that he's not paying attention as closely as other people.
And yet he's still the director of a star. Or he is. And he's intentionally doing it.
No, I don't. Let me take the nice guy approach. He just wants to say everyone's doing a great job.
I don't agree with that either. I think that he looked at the monitor and he was like, wow,
that looks cool for a couple of seconds. And then he moved on to the next scene that he had.
That was cool. Cut print. Let's go. Yeah, literally. Check the gate. All right, we're good.
So good. And he didn't notice the knife thing until he was in editing. And he was like, oh,
shit. I mean, I wonder what his comment on that would be. I wonder if he would be like,
knife. Some people just don't know how to film action. I think he's just one of those people
because he hasn't really made any action heavy properties before. Now, but that wasn't like it
wasn't any like group hand to hand combat scenes. It was just like it's a shooting. Yeah, like,
yeah, really, you know, like one on one stuff, easy stuff. But it's like it's like the new
Charlie's Angels. The action in that one is garbage because because Elizabeth Banks didn't
know what the fuck she was doing. She had no fire coordinators for that shit. If you don't have no
fucking clue what you're doing. I mean, yeah, I don't know. That's old claim. I know.
Wait, so what did chat said? What's the knife thing?
The disappearing knife, the TLJ throne room disappearing knife. I just I'd like to know
to show him and just to see his initial reaction. I reckon he'd giggle and he'd be like, oh,
it's not a big issue. I just just edited out. And they're like, I'm sorry, what? No, I edited
out like disappear. If you look at the moment itself, she like screams when he pulls the the
left arm back almost as if he hit it with it. But then it's just gone anyway. But like, it's just
a weird moment because it's wrong in so many ways. But like, just she's like, ah, and it's like,
wait, what? What? It I don't understand it. It's the whole fight like it could have been fucking
pretty cool. I think if they, you know, locked a few more things down, spend a bit more time. I
don't know. I ain't a choreographer or a swordsman nicer. What do y'all think is better in terms of
gameplay in relation to narrative in video games story told through the environment and gameplay
like Dark Souls and Bioshock or cut scenes telling the story like Spider-Man and God of War.
Depends. One of those is probably better for curse personal stories about characters.
Generally. The other might be better generally for a more
excellent like world building. Well, obviously, obviously, there was exceptions, but that might
be a decent enough rule of thumb. Yeah, it kind of depends because like Dark Souls isn't really
a character driven story, is it? This is a complicated question because we're dealing with
several properties at once because it's like, what do you want to what do you want to convey
to the player? Oh, and this is cute. I'm assuming it's God of War. God of War is like a character
and the world are both getting described regularly as Spider-Man. I didn't play it,
but I'm assuming that's more focused on character. Correct. Reading notes and looking at the
environment, it builds up the world and events prior and it establishes where you are helps
immerse you where you're playing. But it generally won't tell you a lot about the character unless
you go out of your way to make it tell you something about who you're playing. Obviously,
there are exceptions to this, but you got to just ask yourself, all right, what do we what do we
want to tell the player here? What do we want to tell the player here? Does it even matter who
you're playing? Is the is the protagonist just basically a vehicle for the player to explore
things or is it about the character that the player is playing? Are we trying to is the angle
that where we are is the more important story. It's up to the game you're trying to create.
Also, more character driven stories can also still have like collectible items that you can then
examine and there might be some information that you get out of that. For instance, Spider-Man has
like backpacks that you can go around the city collecting and it's got some bits of memorabilia.
For instance, there's like a shard from Mysterio's old helmet and he talks about his first time
fighting Mysterio, you know, so there's still that even in cutscene driven games. The Last of Us
also has those sorts of things. In cutscenes and environmental storytelling, they're not
exclusive to one another. You can have them both. They don't conflict with each other.
But you know, if you have a certain budget, certain time, maybe you got to prioritize.
That's what I was going to say. There are cutscenes in Dark Souls and Bioshock as well,
because yeah, you get a lot of your controls taken away temporarily in Bioshock quite a bit.
My question is, how do you want to gate the story to the player? So if you have a sequence that you
have a lot of exposition that you need to drop to the player, they're going to get really annoyed
if you take away their control. However, if they're walking through a scene, they're going
to be frustrated if you aren't giving them the ability to sprint. Any control you take away from
the player is going to frustrate the player to a certain degree, depending on how they
are invested in the game. So you have to find a way to artificially put a player in a situation
where they feel like their ability to focus on the story over whatever their action they're taking
is worth their time. And then the best elements I feel like in video game storytelling take place
in sort of sequences where the player is given downtime and control isn't necessarily taken away,
but they're distracted enough to need information from another character.
So certain Call of Duty sequences, I feel like that. Certain sequences in Halo, like when Halo
introduces the silent cartographer level, it's obvious that you're getting, you're flying into
the battle, so you can't really do anything. You're sitting on the bench of a pelican.
That makes sense for the story in the world, and it also makes sense for the player.
That's why a lot of games start with helicopter sequences and such and stupidly end by the
helicopter crashing, because they can't think of anything else to do. But if you have the ability
to introduce exposition to players and get them invested in the story and not take away their
agency, then you're succeeding at that immersive storytelling that gamers are looking for.
And it's very difficult to do that. You also have to ask if whether or not Halo is a good example
of nobody complains that I can't make choices in Halo in terms of how the story plays out.
The Master Chief isn't me. I'm playing as the Master Chief. Is the character supposed to be
an extension of the player? Or is the character playing as a person in a world who makes their
own decisions? And you're watching their decisions and all their stuff play out,
and they're there for the gameplay, and the story colors everything on top of it.
Exactly. That's why people were upset about Fallout 4's intro sequence versus other Fallout
games where you could sort of shape the player. In an RPG where you're given all the character
customization, the backstory for character might want to be left open. But if you're giving a
character that already has a pre-existing story that the player is feeding into and becoming that
character, you're totally right. You want to present it in the way that the character is going
to take it in. So, you know, video games have that amazing ability to combine player interaction with
the story that movies and music and all the other things don't have. And I think it's easier to say
that something is bad than good because I can't necessarily think of a really good example of
storytelling in a video game. I think for linear shooters, what Half-Life 2 did by
trapping the player in an area that they couldn't get out of without the assistance of an AI
character, while simultaneously not necessarily having characters that would be invulnerable or
like give away the fact that this character is invulnerable when going through the environment
because players hate escort missions, that would be a good example of it. And I think a really bad
example would be something like Far Cry 5 or Halo 3 sequences where Grave Mind takes over
and the player has to slow down and stop doing whatever they're doing to listen to some quote
that the evil character is saying or in Far Cry 5 where characters get intercepted by the scripted
engine. And even though they've been doing, you could be playing like the stealth gamer BR guy or
Glockner or whatever these amazing players play like and still the game is going to take over
control and make you feel like the worst player ever, which is a contradiction for the player
and I think takes at least me out of the game. So I don't know how exactly you could deliver
that information. I don't have enough experience in it but finding a way to trick the player into
being in an environment where they're getting that information without feeling like they have too much
taken away is the successful way of doing it. Very well. I'm just gonna kick on. That
the discussion is enormous by the way. Yeah, exactly. I think we covered it sort of briefly
enough. Hopefully. Rip Isaac the cat. I believe that's when we told Chase to move Isaac out of
the room and he actually did. We weren't really that serious. We're okay with cats being on the
stream people. Are we? I don't want to confirm it. Happy fapping in 2020 and all the tisms to come.
Also, high rags. Hello. Uh, Mueller, I don't want to press you, but come on. We're all waiting. It's
been nine months now already. When's the next Godelb coming out? Happy 2020. Um, yeah, Godelb
is on its way, I suppose. Just three months from now. Man, that isn't actually very long.
Fuck yeah, being born on Y2K is objectively the best. Also, Jason, part three may be overrated,
but part six is objectively tismic about Jojo, I guess. I guess. I don't know.
Invite the beautiful black woman. That's bullshit on.
Uh, actually he's, he's out for the night. He's, he's one of those people that actually has friends,
I guess, uh, for New Year's. Disgusting, if I may say so. And, uh, Shad was unable to make it
as well, but we've had plenty of wonderful cameos. It's been, uh, it's been a night for sure.
Uh, Mola should use his Welsh accent should he and Quintin ever debate? Why? It's confusing.
While Quintin is confused. I'm, I'm confused as to why he just won't have a regular conversation
with you. I mean, because he'll get what? Yeah. But is it just that like, he can't just be like,
Hey, what's up? It's that fear of failure and you know, humiliation. I wonder if you'll be
pissed about the whole, I hate everything discussion. His name comes up once or twice,
but not in like a significant way. So like on one side he's like a zealot because he thinks that
John Tron is a white supremacist or something. And then on the other side, he's willing to have
conversations with monkey Jones where he wants to be like friendly with him because he somehow
fear respects him or something. So like mall or what, why would he be? What I will say is that
that was a major damage control. Cause you remember what he did with monkey Jones, right?
Like that unity sold his fucking soul on Twitter when like monkey got taken down by YouTube and
then Quintin put out a tweet, like celebrating that. And people were like, what the fuck? And
he was like, well, he called me fat and stuff. I'm just like, that's not an insult. That's a
description, Quintin. It was funny cause that bumpy podcast, he was like, Hey, I took it down
before anyone has to tell me to take it down. Just like what? Oh my God. Okay. So he saw the
shit and he's, he's just like, people can like pass judgment on him. But even after all that,
I'm just like, dude, how do you not have the self-awareness to like better that? Why do you
have to be so fucking segmented and like, be like, Oh, I got to act like this. Cause these
are the bad people. Well, cause maybe he thinks like in his mind that if he backtracks in any way,
shape, or form, it confirms what, you know, Mahler's been saying. And so in his eyes,
it'll be that everyone sees him as wrong. So he's just sticking to his opinions,
even though they've been proven wrong multiple times. My, my thing is like, I just don't
understand how people can look at internet history or be a YouTuber that goes into internet history
and not understand that they're making the same mistakes that every other person that's been
defamed has made, which is not being honest to the internet. Cause you can't delete the past.
So it's easier to tell other people to be honest than to be honest yourself.
Very true Rags. You're right. I appreciate that. But that would be the common sense in my mind.
You would think.
I think it's just when it, when the weight of it having to be you as the one who does it,
you know, that's, that's something that that, that's the tough part.
You know, 100%. I appreciate that. But it's still the,
we'll quit the principle. Well, he's not, he's, I don't think he isn't principled. He's got these,
you know, his type, they, they aren't principle. I mean, that's why they'll, they'll gladly and
happily jump and talk to monkey Jones, be buddies with him. But we're a bunch of Nazi racist,
that's done. John Trons, a white supremacist or whatever. And he has to be cast gated and,
and thrown away and all this other stuff. There's no consistency in any positions here.
All right, then, uh, my favorite massives onward to the tisms.
Yeah, that's about natural. Who wins the EFAT battle royale cosmic chicken versus good rat
versus Oracle spider versus milky rhino. Um, it would be between the rat and the rhino would be
fucked. I'm sorry. Um, no spiders until the future. You can do a lot with that info. Well,
yeah, like I said, the rat and the rhino would be fucked. The, the interesting battle is between
the chicken and the spider because the spider could see every move coming, but we are talking
about the cosmic chicken at this point. So maybe it can fuck with time to the point where the spider
actually loses the advantage or maybe the cosmic chicken chose to create the universe where when
they did meet up, it would win. Yeah. The thing, cosmic chicken kind of outclasses all of them.
There's almost enough like animal symbols to make a zodiac out of it.
You can get like a game of thrones level set of families from EFAT at this point.
I was born under the chicken. Is Pikachu in the chat? Pikachu make that happen.
Um, I'm giving my first and only super chat for chase reppin golden sun. Very well. Golden
sun. Yeah, that was good. Good stuff. Just wanted to quickly say before I get too much
drunk tisms, you guys and the community are awesome. And here's to a wonderful 2020.
Hi rags. Hello. I was from cubic ins by the way. Oh, that's great. All of the paper crafts
for EFAP on EFAP.me have been released. They're wonderful. Um, if you want a paper vision of your
favorite EFAP hosts and guests, you can find them there. Um, diabetes. Oh, even has one. It's amazing.
Thank you all for the past years worth of entertainment. No problem. Oh, glad you're
enjoying it. Have the happiest of New Year's might he walks also please assemble the marvelous
massive so we can start off the new year with a rescue mission. Hashtag save Quinton's doll.
Well, he has a doll. It might be too late.
Oh, no, you haven't seen that EFAP yet, Anna. No, I'm so behind. All these Ewok references
have to be confusing you right now. I've seen the little snippets that people post on Twitter of the
lips. Oh, my God. Maybe I'll skip ahead and watch that one. It should be visible in the in the lips
clip, right? I think the one I saw was only like 20 seconds and it was just like a repeat of Jay.
Okay. Not good for anybody. Um, thoughts about YouTuber Razbutin or Razbutin.
Um, he makes video essays. No idea who that is.
Fucking hell, YouTube. Thanks for not telling me EFAP was on. I mean, it definitely told me
about Sargon's new vid lol. People say that a lot that notifications for EFAP don't go out.
I never even get notifications. I feel like it just changes.
Well, YouTube have said that, right? They're like, we just randomly decide to not tell people stuff
to see if it works out. It's like, why? Like the longest time I never got a notification. That's it.
Like two weeks, three weeks, I got notifications. I don't know why I didn't get before. It's so
stupid. I hate it. I'm not surprised that certain YouTubers don't have their notifications go out or
have people unsubscribe from them. Must be a coincidence. I'm back. Hello, rags. You rag.
Hello. Hey. Pooping with the stall door open.
Hanging out with my not out. Dogs poop outside. That's like leaving the ultimate door open.
No. It depends on where you go. Depends on where you go. Besides, I mean,
is it really unreasonable to not want to poo where you live and sleep?
Yeah. And, you know, some dogs have class. They have a little poopy doggy outhouse thing.
Yeah. Some dogs. I don't just I don't just squat down on the front porch.
On the welcome mat. It's like, come on, man. It depends on what you hate the person, I guess.
But you ain't watching. It's me time as me time. Happy New Year. Long live the death of Star Wars.
Oh, no, I want it to be good. It just won't be. There you go.
Yeah. Someone someone in the chat asked me to or said someone to show
into the sex doll and I just did that. Wait, he actually had that in his background.
Yes, it was in his background. That's his sex doll. He made a video.
And it's next to Rudolph and oh, no. He's got a line of fucking rainbow frogs.
It's his background in other videos, too. It's terrifying.
He's proud of that. He crowdfunded it.
He doesn't even have a good wig. Oh, my God.
It's very confusing to look at. Does he have a basement?
Has anyone investigated his house to see if he has a basement and if there's anyone locked in it?
I mean, what's her name? Contra Point, she hasn't disappeared yet.
So no reason to be suspicious yet, but it's just a random person from his neighborhood.
If there's if anyone knows Quentin personally, and if there's look up,
if there's been any missing people in his neighborhood within the past few years,
especially if they voted Trump, I'd like to highlight the chat who said,
Quentin looks like he got rejected from Hogwarts.
I'm going to be Buffalo Bill in a few years. I guarantee you that.
Are you saying he's going to force people to watch old cartoons that nobody watches?
Now he's going to be he's going to be the lotion on it on its skin.
I mean, making skin outfits. Oh, no.
I don't understand why all the girls won't suck my penis. I told him I'm a feminist.
He's not. No, he's great.
He's great. Look at that doll. That's either that's probably a female doll.
I would assume male from that base. He's implied that he's bi before Quentin.
Oh, OK. Well, I'm sure he has had a white experience like that.
It was like, get away from us.
I feel like I need to take a shower to look at those pictures.
I feel gross. I think Quentin probably smells like he looks.
Yeah. Oh, God. I could feel when I watch a video, I could smell it.
As long as you can't taste it, that's when you know you're in trouble.
I'm going to rinse my mouth out real cool.
Dunkey admitted to walking past tons of enemies in Dragon Quest 11,
then complained about having to grind later on in his review. He's honestly dumb.
But honestly, I like I don't keep up to date with him.
But I just I never took him that seriously as an informative reviewer.
Instead, I was just like, oh, this is kind of funny.
But when he does that to a game that you're passionately in favor for or feel is being unfair,
it really does grind one's gears because that's how I saw his ukulele review.
I was like, you being an asshole, it's showing things that are unfair.
And it seems to be that there's more than one case of that happening.
And a common defense is you're not supposed to take it seriously.
He's just a joke channel, that sort of thing. It's like, hmm.
I am on the Dunkey Stan defense squad, so I feel like he says in the beginning of the video that
JRPGs and RPGs are really not his thing. And he preface his opinion.
I don't think that that excuses the objective, like what he he's not like giving out
completely factual representation of the game. And as somebody that likes the Batman Arkham games,
I take his criticism with a grain of salt. But I think overall, the points that he's making,
even though he's emphasizing and hyper realizing are really good points.
And I point to the videos about game critics and
difficulty in games. I think he makes good arguments, but he wants to just be more funny
and light hearted. Because being funny and accurate are mutually exclusive.
I don't agree with that, but I don't either. I don't think I don't think any of them would.
But I just feel like that what I get out of his reviews is not necessarily the same thing that I
get out of a long form review. And I understand people are really, really upset about that specific
review, Octopath Traveler or whatever. But I think they should just take it with a grain of salt.
I mean, isn't that the same defense that people sometimes use for cinema sins and Doug Walker?
Yeah, but I agree with that sentiment as well. There's clear flaws in what they do,
and you take that into consideration. And then you just you can choose if you want to keep enjoying
it after that or not. That's subjective. But I don't think that you can look at the comedic
aspects of what he's doing and judge them the same as somebody who's just trying to do the same
review in a straightforward path. Like Matthew Matosis, if he was saying something that Dunkey
was saying, it would be way more off base because what you're used to is his characterization of
being very literal. I think that if you go to most of Dunkey's videos that are controversial,
you will find a segment in his videos where he is prefacing that point that you don't like.
So that's that has been my consideration about that controversy. I think that if you have to
fabricate stuff about a piece of media or whatever work you're reviewing in order to
make a joke about it, then it's probably not that funny. I mean, how funny it is is subjective,
I guess, but it just seems like it would be a bit disingenuous to have to make something up in order
to make a joke. It's like I think that you can make jokes about something while representing it
accurately. And I agree with that. It's also tough to know exactly when that's actually happening,
because this is the problem with the people. So say, for example, he's like, look how goofy this
game is. It's got this is every one of the characters and he shows like one goofy looking
character. And someone's like, but there's all kinds of different characters. Why are you picking
on that one? He's just like, oh, no, everyone knows I'm kidding. Like, there's everyone knows
the characters this game, like, so it was Overwatch or something. Okay. But then when he's like, like
ukulele or whatever other game, he's like, the controls do not work properly. And then he shows
an example on screen. He's like, this is fucked. And it's ruining anyone's enjoyment of the game.
It's like, is there a joke in there? You sure he's not just fucking this up? Like,
and this is the problem. It's just like, you're not supposed to take it seriously. And it's like,
hang on. He's just inaccurate here. I'm not actually like, how serious I take his statement
is just taking it literally. There is nothing else you can do with it.
You should do a video on ukulele. That'd be good to see.
There are some really good points I think that he made about the graphics in that game that were
solid at face value. And then there are some that I feel like are hyperbolic. And I feel like that
he does that in both directions. Because another thing that he's explained about his perspective,
which is his perspective on other people, but I feel like it applies to himself is that he said,
when you go to a reviewer, you go in knowing what their personality is like, and what their
likes are. So when you understand when they're saying something, you have a point of reference.
So like, this reviewer, let's say, is all about first person shooters and military simulations,
like an operator juice key type. I'm not going to go to operator juice key for a Mario review.
Now, I think that that gives ammunition to people that are against what Dunkey is saying and being
like, so why did you put out an Octopath review when you already don't like the review? But I'm
pretty sure that he has in the video a statement that he was saying it based on that he reviewed
it based on hype. Now, whether or not you believe in the justification is based on his argument. And
I'm not saying that he's right all the time. But I feel as somebody that watches him and admittedly
is a fan of him and likes him, that I can differentiate based on my experience with the
game that he's talking about, and based on what he's talking about when he's funny. However,
if you don't have all those reference points, and you're just coming in, you're like, Octopath
Traveler seems good. Let's see what Dunkey says. Oh, I'm not going to buy the game because he thinks
it's a piece of shit. That is the failure. So like, because he said that he's pissed off the fan
group. And I think that they make an absolutely valid argument with what he's saying. But I
wouldn't throw out all of his criticisms and defame him with just that point. Because I think that
would be doing him a disservice as in general, because there are a lot of other good points that
have been made with the same style. That was the reach. It's just interesting that it's happened,
it seems to be happening with more than just one instance, because I had my issues with him in
Yooka-Laylee, the Octopath Traveler thing happened, then this thing with Death Stranding happened
recently. And I'm just like, if it's enough of a patent, maybe he should start changing it up and
maybe don't go to the level of inaccuracy that he tends to maybe do in aid of a joke, maybe avoid
those ones. Yeah, I mean, I'm certainly going to help him in terms of just having to deal with all
this, because he's clearly aware of people. He's responded twice now. He did the same thing to
Mark after Dark as he did to the guy with Octopath Traveler. He did like a small jab at them,
or a couple of jabs at them, without acknowledging any of the other criticisms, which isn't exactly
cool. Yeah, it can be funny. I'm not even going to disagree with that. It can be funny. It's just
like, oh, that's not fun. You did that to that person, but okay. So, I agree. If he incorporated
those criticisms, then that would objectively improve his content. I think it would improve
his standing in general. I think he would be like, hey, that's pretty cool of you. But you were like,
yeah, I guess I could have done X, Y, and Z with this. By the way, if someone does criticize him,
and they're actually wrong, like, let's say they criticize him for 10 things, and three of those
things aren't actually fair criticism, and he responds to those three being like, oh, you
fucked up here because of this. That's cool with me. It's just, I'd appreciate the whole like,
oh, but I actually did fuck up here though. Yeah, I agree. And then he'll be fine because
he's got a huge fan base. It's just like, I don't know. I was like, I just feel if I was going to
make a review about a game and have it be very heavy on comedy, I still wouldn't be wrong.
I like how fundamental that is.
That's what I like. We can dress it up as much as we'd like, however much we need to maybe.
But that's how I'd do it. So like my example for this is he talked shit about Arkham Asylum and
Arkham City's combat systems, and how they're kind of like rhythm games, and they're super easy and
stuff. But then he ignored the fact that you're supposed to. Well, his example is it's like the
Octopath example. The point of the game is to build a combo and to not get hit. You want to
basically have a perfect combat session with all the varieties of enemies that get thrown at you.
And as the game progresses, the more difficult enemies only respond to specific tactics. So you
have to recognize what is coming at you. Sometimes you have to press the B button. Sometimes you have
to press the X button for this enemy, etc. So he was just pressing one button over and over again
and having some success to it and showing how the game is super easy while ignoring what the
score system in the game's intention is. And so that's an example I have. That's my Octopath
example. And then on the other side, a game that I really enjoy, Titanfall 2, he was like, how can
you say that this game is bad when I'm so good at it in like the comedic way? Both of these things
to me are like what Rag said. It's like they're absolutely embellishing and you could say that
it's straight up like being untruthful. It's like a lie about what the game actually is for the sake
of comedy. So if he was just doing it for truthful things that are like, okay, this is how the game
actually works. This is the mechanic and it's bad because of this. And he showed the exact same
example with the same comedic structure. That would be an improvement on his content. And that would be
like a way that wouldn't piss people off. And I think other than that, people wouldn't have a
problem with him. So what's your point then? Because I think I'm a little bit lost because at
first you were defending him and now... Well, that to me seems to be the resolution. Like that's the
way of getting... Because I can defend him up to a certain point. But if somebody introduces to me
that it's fundamentally wrong that he's doing that, I can't really defend him anymore. So then you
agree with the initial point. I agree with the initial point, yeah. I guess I agree with the
initial point, but I'm just saying that that's what he could do. The positive outcome is what I was
looking for. All right then. Yeah, Dunkey's an interesting one. I don't know what it would take
for us to actually cover him one day. Probably have to be a particularly egregious video on
something that we're actually up to speed on. Because it's just really complicated to tackle
something like his... Because with CinemaSins, I'm pretty sure in our coverage of him we'll actually
be like, this point is false because of blah blah blah. Unless of course he's making this as a joke,
that we try to figure out what the joke would be if it is a joke. Because it's like a minefield
with CinemaSins and the fans. And then I assume the same would be going for Dunkey. But yeah,
hopefully he doesn't make a video that's fucking dreadful. Just keep on trucking and aim for
accuracy. Accuracy is your best friend. Yes. I mean accuracy doesn't get in the way of anything
except for lies. Fuck lies, am I right guys? Yeah, or I guess the accuracy would be more
appropriate. But you could be funny and accurate. You could be serious and accurate. You could be
all sorts. You could be ironic and accurate to get your point across. But
I guess he's great. We like it. Happy New Year, long man. Hi, Doggo.
Hello. Good to see Chase again so soon. He's already gone.
Happy New Year is catching up on 67, so I'll watch this later. But thanks for a good year of content.
No problem. We got more to come. Happy New Year, my Ewoks. All the best for 2020.
Mauler, don't forget to pet your Doggo. Hi Rags and kick Jay.
Hello. Jay has kicked himself. Yep, took care of it. Four hours is absolutely an accepted amount
of Efap. Mormon Baggins, Efap 14. Oh, have times have changed. I know. Times have definitely changed.
28 year old, one date, still no GF. How about some encouraging words and thanks for keeping me
saying throughout these loantisms. Santa Clara Rum is rather good. Very good, I guess. Also, hi, Rags.
Hello. Rags, give this person encouraging things for loantisms. Take care of yourself.
Don't be afraid of failure. Don't be afraid of being rejected. Go out, see people, meet.
No friends of friends. Be social. Go out and talk to people. You know, it's not like a secret magical
thing. It's just do just actually go out and do it. What you think you should do is probably what
you should do. It's just a matter of doing it, you know. Yeah, if you're not like really good with
like flirting or anything, you can just go up to someone and just talk to them. Like if you notice
if they're wearing like a shirt, like a Star Wars shirt or something, talk to them about Star Wars,
try to see what it is that they might be interested in talking about that you would
have a mutual interest in. And that's a really solid way of developing a connection with someone
fairly quickly. Just download Tinder. There you go. Yeah. Or Grindr, whatever floats your boat.
By the way, I was going to say right. If you're gay, then it's if you're into dudes,
it'll be so much easier to get laid. Whatever grinds your boat,
whatever boats you grind, whatever turns your tables. Happy New Year. Don't ask your pistachios.
Don't do anything. You have to. Pistachios are good. I know I'm reading them right now. People
are giving me shit in the chat, but why for pistachios? Well, they said no munching Anna.
Oh, well, but it's good. Don't do anything tonight that would hurt your parents and hold
your families close in the new year. Me, I'm going to do a bull drop with eFap villains.
I was confused for a while there. A ball drop with eFap villains.
Why not? I suppose. Do you think Dunkey was right when he said here? I bet that's magical.
That's that's that's an appropriate rank. I can't believe you'd say that on a Christian stream.
You got a silencer's guilt right there.
I worship Thor, God of Thunder and all the gods of the Nordic pantheon.
What about Odin? Oh, him too.
All right. Fair enough. Do you think Dunkey was right when he said Fallen Order was the best EA
game in 10 years? I think that might be close to the mark when it comes to single player EA games.
Um, I'm not sure. I in fact, I'm going to default and say that's not true.
But if I if I go through here, once I'm done with this, I'm doing
I will go through the list of EA games that are single player and I manage.
Oh, yeah. Titanfall two. Yeah. There you go. There's your answer.
Yeah, that's what I was going to. All right, then.
Good way. Does that mean solely single player games?
I don't see how adding a multiplayer would disqualify what the single player is.
As in like a game that only has multiple single player.
I feel like that's unnecessarily arbitrary. But let's say that was the case. Would it still
would it win then? Um, I'd have to look through. I'm not certain.
What about co-op through the campaign? I don't know. But again, I'm coming up with
rules that weren't in the Super Chat zone. Um.
Efap where we are all the fascists. Oh, I get it. Like Palpatine.
Django is probably the most underrated movie of the decade, but I don't know why
is it due to the use of Ewok or do you have any problems with it?
Hi, Rags. Hello. Oh, also Dragon Age Origins. Dead Space. Dead Space 2.
Yeah, yeah. Yes.
Some people are saying Soma. I was like, no, I think Soma's in indie.
Yeah, Soma's in indie.
Bad Company 2. That's within 10 years, right?
That's a pretty good single player for what it is, yeah.
Also, in regards to Django, I haven't really heard people say Django's bad.
It mostly gets considered pretty good, right?
It just kind of drags. And drags fortune.
Django.
It could have ended after they had the shootout, but they had an extra sequence for some reason.
Yeah, I'd agree with that. Um, that's probably it though, like for the road. Like I love
King Schultz and and Django's characters, so like the plot was pretty strong. It was good shit.
And Leo as a villain.
Yeah, he was good shit. And um, Samuel Jackson as the butler dude, he was awesome.
The fact that Sam Sam would take that role for Quentin is a sign of his respect for Quentin,
because that's like a role that he would get for himself.
Well, yeah, everyone's like, if you say the N word, you're racist. And I'm like,
okay, what about Leonardo DiCaprio? I was like, wow, that that's that's different.
That doesn't I've gotten count. Like, all right.
He's playing a character.
He's playing a racist character.
He's playing a character. He's like, I'm talking about a word.
Wow, racist rags are at it again.
Obviously.
Happy New Year, you massives. And here's to tismy 2020. Also high rags.
The tismy 20s. That's it. Also, hello. But there you go. The tismy 20s.
No, that was the first thing I said before I said the client.
I don't remember it. Oh, I even agreed with it.
See, I have to put up with that either. Every fab. This is it, right? This is where we
everything's destroyed. The relationship over.
This is our relationships over.
Just as that common predicted.
Yes, this is the long man predicted.
Or the tisms all along.
Yes, of course.
I am retired. It's five a.m. So good.
You're retarded.
Yes, obviously.
Sleep well, metal. Have a happy new year and we'll catch you.
Happy New Year, everybody.
Everyone's waiting for John Wick to be destroyed by you.
Yeah, I'm back home in tomorrow. In tomorrow. In tomorrow. I'll be home in tomorrow.
Then work resumes.
Yes, I shall resume recording my tisms and I will be.
Oh, it was nice finally meeting you, metal.
All right. It was the first time.
Yeah, we told them all about you.
He was supposed to impress him and failed.
Yeah, maybe I'm not tired.
Like it's like the worst time to meet me.
Not so good. I'll see you guys later.
Bye bye.
And then there was just seven.
Very few people left.
Knock him out in case we're going to add people or not.
From Russia with love. Happy New Year, you Massives.
Why are you speaking Chinese?
Happy 2020, Massives. Hopefully less franchises are ruined this year.
Yeah, I think.
Well, are there any left?
There's a few left. There are.
I don't think we'll be able to destroy as many, though, honestly.
I really don't think it'll be possible, but maybe.
Well, there's a Clifford movie coming out.
Clifford the Big Red Dog.
True. I just got out of that yesterday and it ruined my fucking year.
This is just as upsetting as learning that Disney's going to do a live action Robin Hood.
This is this is this is as upsetting as like learning that Disney would be doing
a live action Emperor's new groove.
Oh, Star Wars original trilogy remake would be that the worst for me.
Oh, could you imagine?
Learn that some animated movies can't be translated to like it's a real life.
Yeah, like Lion King.
They did. Lion King is too late.
The dolls are open like like they made one point two billion.
Maybe in the tramp is what Walt Disney wanted.
He wanted to tell stories through animation.
He didn't want to do it with live action because everyone was already doing it with live action.
So he went with animation as this new media.
And that was his dream.
That was his vision. That was his goal.
And he accomplished it. And now they're fucking it up.
Yeah, he he was definitely about that.
And he also, I think, recognized by making live action movies that they couldn't be the same content.
He made separate choices.
You know, he made Swiss family Robinson in live action
because that would be a better choice for live action than animation.
I don't know. I think that would have been cool to see animated.
You guys remember the old Robinson Crusoe cartoon with
there's like the cat and the dog and the parrot.
You all remember that?
No, no, no, no, that was like offended.
You're like, no, it's almost like she was sad.
She hadn't seen it.
No, I am sad. I want to know. Find a picture, share it.
Yeah, it's Martin Robinson Crusoe.
You know, you know who they're having direct Clifford?
Walt Becker, who directed Wild Hogs.
He's going to be terrible.
Holy shit.
Oh, I'm sorry.
You know what his last directing credit was?
Alvin and the Chipmunks, The Road Ship, 2015.
Oh, that makes perfect.
It hurt myself so much when they did Alvin and the Chipmunks
because me and my sisters used to love watching the cartoons.
And so when they made the live action, we all just kind of died inside.
All right, I'm clicking on.
I was pissed off because Jason Lee, the guy that's the lead actor
and that is a huge guy in the skateboarding community.
He invented the 360 flips.
So seeing the super respected guy that transitioned into Hollywood
play that role was really sad.
Rags, there's no pictures for me to look at.
Fine, Jesus.
It's like an infant.
So that's the front, right?
Oh, well, you want to know why they don't advertise this?
Because it looks like shit, but it's amazing.
Well, that and they'll just get pinned as a racist.
Oh, yeah, definitely.
This was made in 1974.
It's super fucking racist.
It's amazing, though.
He fights with a swordfish with his sword.
There's all sorts of stuff, man.
Gosh, I've never seen animals and they go.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
It's it's probably shit.
I watched this a kid a lot and I loved it.
I can't it's on YouTube.
All the parts of it are like on YouTube.
So one of these days, we'll just cue up all the parts
and just watch it through.
And we'll we'll just watch this awful movies on it.
He's at movies of Robinson Crusoe from 1974.
Yeah, I mean, why not?
By the way, did you know that Daniel Defoe did the story for it?
I don't even know who that is.
Yeah, no one does.
He died in 1731.
But no, here you go.
I thought you would just say like he made it in 1970s.
I already died 200 years earlier.
Like, wait, what?
I'm pretty pretty ahead of his time for writing the movie.
Yeah, man.
Like, holy shit.
Good job.
Listen, the man had talent.
Now that's true.
Dedications to craft.
You like specified this screenplay.
This has to be made 200 years from now.
Okay.
Even though I don't agree with some of your opinions,
the Expanse is awesome.
Fight me.
You have helped me get through some of the worst years of my life with fun and laughter.
So thank you for everything and Happy New Year.
Yeah, good stuff.
We're always hopeful that all of this insane nonsense provides a little bit of fun times for all.
And typically speaking, everybody has a bad opinion on something.
It's okay.
You don't like the Expanse?
I thought the show was pretty meh.
How much did you watch?
Three seasons.
The only character I liked was the guy who temporarily takes over the ship in the third season.
The old dude.
You're a little ahead of me.
I didn't like the first season because that one character was really annoying.
But I really like the chick from Mars.
Yeah, she's cool enough.
I'd have to rewatch it again.
My opinions on it are so thin now that I don't even want to shave them.
Is her name Marcia?
I don't know what her name is, which is why I referred to her as the chick from Mars.
I got it right.
It was good.
I got it too.
I just decided not to go with it.
Not to make sure you knew that.
This is only the Robin's crew.
So if you ever just want to watch it.
Throw it up on a screen mauler, please.
Wait, we should make sure that.
Oh my god, it's an alcoholic.
I just want you to understand that the parrots and alcoholic,
all of the all of the native cannibals are super fucking racist.
The audio quality is so just.
Is it an English?
Yeah, you bet it's in English.
At least is this one.
Let me see.
They literally drew them like birds.
What the parrots?
Yeah.
No, no, no, the humans.
The humans are drawn like parrots.
Oh yeah, look at their faces.
Well, I didn't say parrots.
They're drawn like birds, like the natives.
Like look at the way their nose.
They're kind of they're kind of bird like.
Oh my goodness.
This isn't this isn't in English.
Fuck.
So whoever linked me this, thank you.
But this is not in this is not in English.
Oh my god.
Oh my god.
I don't understand how anyone would have any problem with this.
Look, he's he's laughing at him because his gun isn't working.
He has three toes.
Oh yeah.
Oh, I'm guessing you're one of those fancy pants people who have four toes.
I want you to like I just I went to a random part of it and I want you to just.
This encapsulates just so much and in this.
Oh my god, you're right.
The parrot is an alcoholic.
This is Robinson Crusoe.
It's so it's just so wonderful.
Oh, how awesome.
Oh, my cannibals.
It's amazing.
They're bad.
They need to be dispatched.
Rags, your social credit score just went down 100 points on Gryffindor.
What was it like on this island that Robbins and Crusoe lived on in this team boat situation?
Oh, I forgot there were two cats, a dog, a parrot and Friday,
who's arguably an animal anyway.
And then there's Robinson Crusoe.
It's like they hand him a spoon to eat the food with,
but he's a stupid, dumb native.
And so he tries to eat the spoon.
Of course, it's so telling.
Oh, the little kids sleeping with a puppy.
At least they're nice to dogs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Only a fascist deals in absolutes.
That's a quote from Bilbo Baggins.
Oh, Bilbo.
Yeah.
After Darth Bilbo escaped the Death Star wreckage.
He's gone.
Always, too, there are a mauler to embody the power and a rags to crave it.
Don't, um...
I crave the power.
After watching Rise of Skywalker with my family,
even my little brother, 14 years old,
knew the pacing was whack.
In his words, the beginning part was going way too fast.
I mean, the all of it part was going way too fast.
Yeah, I like how it slowed down in the middle and near the end.
Yeah, I got you, man.
Um, thoughts on Fallout New Vegas.
Say what?
Thoughts on Fallout New Vegas.
I love it.
It's great.
Everyone should play Fallout New Vegas.
There you go.
Nailed it.
That's some good shit right there, man.
Did some mods and go to town.
Hey!
Wait, which town?
Newee!
Funky town.
Bullet town.
Bullet town.
A...
And gas town.
Same wavelength.
Thanks for fun, Phil.
Thanks for the fun, Phil.
Looking forward to 2020.
Absolutely.
2020 will be filled with fun surprises, I'm sure of it.
And that's when I didn't even pollute his mind before watching Rise of Skywalker.
Also, I'm still waiting for you guys to watch Hardcore Henry, you dumbos.
We're going to get there one day.
Oh, you approaching me?
That's all this Superchess says.
I think they think we're approaching him.
You approaching me?
Scammy, bro.
Rags, I've been debating on whether or not I should come out as a scaly to my friends
and family.
Assuming that I do, what advice do you have for me?
Also, hi, Rags, you sexy beast.
Hi!
Kill yourself.
No, don't do that.
Don't come out as a scaly to your friends and family.
It's not their business, and it makes them think that you're weird.
Scale it back.
Scale back the scalyness.
Scale back.
Oh, nice.
You're not a homo.
You're not a homo.
You're just weird.
Yeah, if you're like, if you take it seriously enough to the point where you're
thinking of coming out as one, like it's a part of your identity,
you might have gone too far with it.
You might need to just, I like the porn, you know, that's where it stops pretty much.
It's not like an identity or anything.
Don't, they don't need, that's not their business anyway.
They don't need to know that, and they'll hate you for it.
So just don't bother.
Yeah, don't be dragging them into this, okay?
Yeah, it's like, it's like coming out to your 87-year-old grandmother
who's the pastor's widow, that you're an atheist.
It's like, just don't bother.
Don't worry about it.
Just let it go.
What the hell are we talking about?
I love South Pole's joke, was only noticed by, I think, like me and E.R.
and E.R., like a dying ghost, just like, no.
You're a spooky, spooky purple ghost.
Or black ghost, I guess.
But you're always in a purple room.
What does that say about you?
Belch.
You're a racist.
I see color in everything.
I hope 2020 is the year Mola says the N word.
Oh my god.
Oh my goodness gracious.
If the band is breaking up, who is your Yoko Ono?
Hmm.
Who is, if we're breaking up, who's Yoko Ono?
Who's the Yoko Ono of eFap?
Rags, what do you reckon?
Well, Yoko Ono needs a Paul McCartney, right?
So she has to attach herself to one of us,
and that will drive, that she will be the wedge that inserts itself between our love.
Huh.
I don't know who Yoko Ono would be.
Because she's an odd one.
You're suggesting it's E.R.
Again, we do know.
No, I'm not.
I don't think, no, he's not, he's not, like,
obnoxious and crazy and loud.
You're only saying that because she's Asian.
That's fucked up, dude.
Yoko Ono's Asian?
What?
That's such an English name.
Well, I guess we'll find out.
It'll be revealed in 2020 who the Yoko Ono of eFap is.
No, I don't think so.
I think we'll go.
Jay is the Yoko.
Oh, maybe.
Is Jay's the Yoko because he's loco.
Um, goodbye 2019, you shitty year.
Here's to 2020 being even worse.
Now I'm going to go get all different types of Inebriated.
So happy new year, my Ewoks.
Hidedly ho there rags.
Uh, Moibschloid?
Hello.
And Chase, stay gay, you stinky cheese men.
Oh.
Are somebody sent me the English version?
If you want to see why Robinson Crusoe, 1974,
written by Daniel Defoe at a piece by Alan Thornton.
What?
Why?
Because it's amazing.
It's so crazy.
I think it's Italian.
So their English is in the way that their mannerisms is just so off, you know?
Rags.
Yoko, Ono, Mary, John Lennon, you mad.
Whatever.
Whichever one of them that she married.
All right.
I don't know.
Are you not a Beatles fan?
He was trying to make a funny.
I don't know their personal relationship history.
You were trying to make a funny and you were being inaccurate,
but that doesn't matter because you were just trying to make a funny, right?
Yeah.
If I tell a joke, that makes me a comedian.
All right.
Yep.
There we go.
Sword, guys.
Nailed it.
What up all my E-words?
Happy New Year, you Massives, especially Christina AKA Southern CT.
I don't know who that is, but say that one more time.
Why?
Oh, Christina Taylor.
She's a chatter.
Yeah, she rarely chats.
I think I see her in the chat quite often.
Well, Happy New Year.
Yeah.
Fascist root word of fascism, Latin meaning bundle, as in bundle of sticks,
a metaphor for a collectivist group against the individual.
From what I've gathered, this is the truest definition of fascism,
and the woke crowd fit the bill perfectly.
It comes from fast.
It comes from fast case.
Is that who you pronounce that?
Fast case.
It meant the bundle that you came back with when you cut down a bunch of wood.
Neat.
As individuals, we are all weak and easily breakable,
but together we form a mighty faggot.
True.
It normally has an axe in there as well,
so it's what you'll often see it associated with.
I think it's on a lot of like symbolically,
it represents might of a republic oftentimes, stuff like that.
If you go to like Washington, D.C., or the Capitol and stuff,
you'll see the fast case on a lot of logos and icons and stuff,
or a little detail.
I think it's on coins, some coins.
Let me see.
Yeah.
It's a classic military symbol.
It's supposed to be like order.
You have the wood that is the foundation, and then you have-
Yeah, it's on the dime.
The back of the dime has a fast case on it.
Fast case.
I think-
Would movie blob be considered a planetoid?
Not to ask massive.
I was going to say I'm not a scientist,
so I'm waiting for one of you guys to sort that out.
I don't know.
A planetoid?
I don't know.
I don't know if we're massive enough.
Perhaps a dwarf planet?
Does anybody orbit him?
Is Diabeto a dwarf planet?
Yeah, that's what I'm asking.
Maybe he's a moon.
I hope he doesn't moon us.
I don't want to see his black hole.
Hey, Muller and Rags.
Wanted to say thanks for the many quality hours of 2019 Efapri.
Also, I'm a musician by trade.
Any favorite films such game composers and or soundtracks?
Happy New Year, you massives.
I mean, if-
So this is a whole bunch.
Composers for games.
I forget the name of the guy,
but the one who did The New God of War,
that was pretty badass.
The guy who did the Doom soundtrack, I guess.
I used to know these names,
but for some reason, they're blanking on me.
I also like, again, I don't know why I've forgotten the name
because he did Westworld and Game of Thrones.
Ramen Dejwadi.
I think that's how you pronounce it.
Yeah, yes.
I really like his stuff too.
And then there's just a shit ton of franchise music
that I probably just list off, pointlessly.
I think it's more interesting to, you know,
talk about those specific composers, I guess.
But that's it for me.
What about you, Rags?
I'm sorry, say that one more time.
Favorite composers slash music from stuff.
Like movies and everything.
Lord of the Rings instantly will spring to mind first.
Howard Shore.
Yeah.
I really like Dvorak.
Dvorak?
Dvorak?
Nairwolf Symphony in particular.
He's a big thumbs up for me.
I mean, all sorts of stuff.
I mean, just all kinds of things.
All kinds of things.
But if we're talking about strictly movies.
You said that you film slash game, so.
Film slash games.
Oh, Mass Effect had a great soundtrack, as did.
Let me see.
Just a second here.
Unironically, Minecraft.
Let's see.
Good OSTs.
Halo has fantastic music all through the series.
I don't know about four and five, but Reach, one, two, three.
And Halo Reach had some really great tunes.
Really, really great music.
The guy that did the Halo stuff.
Yeah.
Mario, Mario, O'Donnell.
Good ol' Marty.
Good ol' Marty.
And Divinity, Original Sin 2 had good music.
Echo had a good soundtrack.
Enter the Gungeon had good soundtrack too.
God, it's like trying to pick one out out of just a bunch of stuff.
What about Jeremy Soule?
Yeah.
From Skyrim?
Skyrim.
Yeah, Skyrim's was all right.
Skyrim's was all right.
Oh, Jesper Kidd.
Is it Kidd or Kaid?
It's KYD.
I don't know if it's Kidd or Kaid.
Jesper Kaid.
He did a lot of the Assassin's Creed stuff.
Especially Assassin's Creed 2 had some fantastic
music in there.
Shadow Warrior 2 had great music.
The main menu theme is among the best I've ever heard.
Let's see.
I just, while it's going through my brain here,
I guess nothing else.
Oh, Bioshock had pretty good music.
But that's like Fallout, where a lot of their songs are pulled from.
You know, real stuff.
But their arrangements and their selections are really, really good.
So there you go.
You can do with that what you will.
I'd like to also appreciate Greg Edmondson from the Uncharted series.
There you go.
I got it.
I would suggest Bernard Herman, James Newton Howard,
Anio Morricone, Julian Winding, Cliff Martinez.
What's his name?
Danny Elfman.
Those are all some good ones.
Hans Zimmer is the obvious choice.
But, you know, that's taste-wise.
It's a good place to start.
I think Stellaris has a really good soundtrack.
Stellaris has a really good soundtrack.
That's one that you could just listen to and all sorts of different things.
The Witcher 3's got really, really incredible music.
A lot of good stuff going on there.
Hildur Gudnadottir.
She did the Joker soundtrack.
Ah, yes.
Another excellent choice.
Oh, fuck.
I forgot to ask E.R.
Lost Dream if he saw the anime where they pierced the dragon's armor
by poking her with a seven-foot pole in her butt.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, because I guess if a dragon has to poo, then you've got a whole
spot around your sphincter there.
I mean, that sounds like a lot of anime to me.
Oh, you're saying that could be referencing several anime at that point?
The many different animes where a dragon is killed with a seven-foot spear up the booty hole?
Yeah, I can think of seven already.
Yeah, really.
That's a thing.
Name three.
Let's see.
No.
I watched it.
Because that is a very, very specific feeling.
I just pressed X to doubt on the wide variety of spear up the butthole dragon.
No, there's loads, honestly.
It's just I can't really name any off the top of my head, but there's loads.
Is that like a thing?
Is that like a cultural thing?
Or is that like a trope?
Is that an anime trope?
You get the dragon up the butt?
Or stuff up your butt at least.
Yeah.
I mean, I stuff up my butt, though.
And it says, this was drawn by Funimation.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year.
I like this one.
It just says, Jabbo the Hutt.
Aha.
There you go.
Good stuff.
There you go.
For the love of God, you massive slow down.
Oh, wait, who just left?
That would be Glibb.
He's returned, however.
So we may now continue because this crazy train ain't got no breaks.
Also, the dragon actually had a lady form, but she can only stay a dragon for so long.
Hilarity ensues, and after they free her Hiney, she kind of likes it.
Oh, my God.
They free her Hiney?
Yeah, I only know of like a couple of anime that happens.
What is the name of this anime?
Oh, this specific one that the super chat is talking about.
I can't know that for sure.
Just Google the description.
Dragon butt slayer.
Did you read that from chat?
Yes, someone said dragon butt slayer one, two, and three.
So it's like an anthology collection.
Eaks and Gamers ripped Matt apart on high council.
It was lol.
Yeah, yeah, at the beginning of the stream, we looked at a Matt like dipping out of a
livestream just before Jeremy arrived.
It was pretty amusing.
Well, they've ripped him up so many times before, and he just keeps doing it to himself.
You know, he's digging his grave deeper and deeper.
Good old man.
It's not like it's that hard to have a chat with.
Well, I think he's had several chats with him as far as I know.
Oh, my I found it on YouTube.
That was shockingly easy to find.
It's, it's Ara Ferretta, episode nine, Hajimi put thick rod in dragon's ass.
It starts off with the caption, say a dragon's only weak point is where it doesn't have scales.
So it's eyeballs post the title in the chat.
Yeah, he needs to make sure he needs to find that the caption literally says take it in
the ass and die.
Well, I mean, it's only a suggestion.
The dragon says, please, write it in the chat.
Well, I mean, it's only a suggestion.
The dragon says, please remove it.
Remove it from my rear.
I beseech you.
All right.
Classic.
Yeah.
So a video in brown table stalls define collab series may want to check it out.
If you want some tism for the video backlog.
Mary new mall rag, Mary new year mall rag much.
And yeah, I heard about the Star Wars defined thing.
It's very sweet that they they do those collaborations.
And I wish them all the luck in the world, but I haven't watched any of them.
I'm sure they're all wonderful.
Mary new year, you massives.
Mary new year.
If diabetes, oh, eats a lot of iron and then starts spinning in a chair.
Does he generate a magnetosphere?
If so, does that now make him dire magneto?
Rags is just showing us.
Just try to imagine the sight of a young woman.
Her behind impaled with a thick hard rod.
This looks recent.
It looks tasteful.
Slowly, please, slowly, please.
I am not.
Is this like a fetish anime?
This is clearly a fucking fetish anime.
This is like a two minute scene.
This is this is absolutely a fetish anime.
And if anyone's like, no, it's actually a complex.
Oh, okay.
It can be both then.
It's a complex fetish anime.
I'm happy.
Happy new year to all the GMT plus two Ewoks.
That's how that's how far behind we are.
I guess, Matt, let your phone die.
Kill it if you have to.
Yeah, he didn't want to run out of battery.
Can't blame him.
Can you guys look at channel Darksanovia?
He loves the EU Star Wars and makes hatred fandom menace.
Wait, also make hatred fandom menace.
Have make vids on them.
And he also a leftist.
What?
I think he doesn't like the fandom menace.
And he loves EU Star Wars hates fandom menace is a leftist.
I think those are the attributes of that guy's channel.
All right.
It's a weird combination.
What's up, all my end walks.
Yeah, that's a combo.
Need help turning on my flashlight.
I got to change a flat tire.
Where do I put the batteries?
That's a weird question.
That's a strange question.
I never used a flashlight.
I'm not sure.
Flashlights don't have batteries.
That's the joke.
So they have tires.
Yes, you might just they might just be referring to the treads.
If you get my.
I get.
Yes, I don't forget.
Can you fuck a a yes flashlight so much that it just becomes perfectly smooth on the inside?
I think it would the silicone would break down, wouldn't it?
So it'd be even worse.
What?
Okay, so anyway.
Hello, all my end walks.
It's 2020 here.
Australian here, lol.
Yes, lol.
Objectively, does the decade not end next year?
You only start your 10th beer after you've finished your ninth.
Or is this totally subjective?
Um, I don't think anyone really cares that much.
We kind of just.
I mean, yeah, I guess you can only finish your 10th beer after you finish your ninth.
Hello, all my e words.
I commented earlier about hoping less franchises are ruined this new year.
But upon further reflection, I honestly don't know what's left.
Also, hi, Rex.
Hello.
I think we agreed.
There's a whole bunch left, right?
Back to the future can be ruined.
Gramlins can be ruined.
Those just do the both still on the plate, if you will.
Clifford can be ruined.
We're all very concerned about that.
The cinematic universe.
Gramlins is underrated, for sure.
Yeah, I'm waiting for them to fuck that up.
Then talk about it.
Gramlins, don't talk about it.
The Revengeance, the Awakening, the Return.
If they ruin Gizmo, I'm going to be good.
Gizmo is going to start dabbing.
Dab, Gizmo dab.
It'll be so cute.
Who needs?
Who needs a Max Monomor?
What the hell was that?
A little film called Max Monomor.
Someone named Conga in the EFAT podcast talk posted it,
and I just had to share it.
What in the world?
Wonderfully terrible.
This is from 1986.
Let's see.
A British diplomat in Terrace learns his chic wife
is monkeying around with a chimpanzee.
Oh my god, movie Bob, I think, reviewed it.
Of course.
I'm kidding.
I got it right.
Hold on, I got it.
Bob Chimp.
Oh my god.
Here it is.
Was it a positive review?
Bob Chimpman.
Well, the Rotten Tomatoes score is not too good.
Stocking.
I trust Rotten Tomatoes.
Maybe a lot of people find the idea of an equal evolution fiddly diddling, you know?
Is that a banana in your pocket?
Or oh no.
Well, you know, this is before furry, so it's ahead of its time.
No, it really wasn't.
He's like, no, stop.
My superhero persona is Dr.
Cocktopus.
He has four prehensile, 30 foot weeders,
recruiting from his back that he uses to walk.
He also has eight balls.
Oh my god.
What anime is that?
That's the same anime as the dragon one.
What anime is this?
Oh, this is Octopus mon amour.
A friendly reminder, once again, that Quentin is an actual anarcho-communist communist.
He is literally incapable of thinking a correct thought.
All right, then.
Octopus is poopy.
Don't kick Jay.
That's too late for that.
He kicked himself.
Why is Jay?
Because he hasn't watched enough movies.
I was going to say, yeah, that's pretty much the easy answer.
Still hasn't completed Lord of the Rings.
How disgusting is that?
Oh my god.
There's no sin.
Make it stop.
Stop sinning these things.
Oh, it's written in Japanese or something.
Of course it is.
Oh man, that is a disturbing thumbnail.
There's just something about that smile.
Smile.
It really is like a nightmare that I haven't had yet, but it's like
there's still time.
I'm going.
Oh my god.
Why?
I'm going to have a nightmare.
It's going to mean.
It's going to mean 16 millimeter Kodak.
That's degraded.
That's what I'm going to be looking at.
It's not the only thing.
16 millimeter.
Well, that literally looks like the frame and the shining.
It looks like the frame is shining.
I don't think you can tell, though.
I'm a comedian.
You don't have to take it seriously.
People have to be accurate.
Watch this clip.
Oh, why?
You didn't click on it.
The husband is standing here calmly speaking to her.
Well, there's a chimpanzee in the bed with her.
I'm afraid to click on it, to be honest.
I don't know what it is.
Oh, no.
Smiling at him like she didn't fuck Henry Cavill.
Oh my god.
He's not even disgusted enough for this to be believable.
I'm going to watch the show.
He's mostly OK with it.
Oh my god.
The monkey's just laughing.
Oh my god.
Fuck your wife.
I can't.
This is this is like a David Lynch movie.
I can't.
I don't know what to say.
It's scary.
Oh my god.
I feel like someone is going to start talking.
I'm just I'm going to I'm going to carry on.
Why a mess?
Yay.
And this was addressed to Adam, but I guess we have to have the panel.
See if they can figure out the correct answer.
Would it be worse to be set on fire or to be eaten by bears?
Well, bears eat you alive.
Yeah, being set on fire also.
Well, yeah, but I feel like fire, you're going to pass out from pain first
and you're going to I don't know.
I feel like being burned alive, you're going to die faster than being.
No way bears.
Apparently burning alive is like the most painful way.
I'd rather get eaten by bears.
I don't know.
Honestly, I don't know.
I would defer to somebody who could argue it.
It depends on like, am I drenched in like kerosene or something?
And it's like I'm going to go up in flames instantly.
And like, what kind of bear is it?
Is it like a baby polar bear?
Or is it like a giant grizzly that's just going to, you know, I don't know.
I'm pretty sure this.
I'm pretty sure that the question is posed because burning.
Okay, so you have your whole body is burning alive.
That means all of your nerves are going off at the same time
as all your pain receptors versus bears.
Don't if you're like when they, you know, burn witches at the stake
and it goes at your feet first and you're slowly burn alive.
Well, here's the alternative.
The alternative is that bears don't necessarily.
That's why bears don't eat you after they've killed you.
They might be eating you while you're still alive.
That's the, it might take a long time.
So if you're burning alive, you may go out faster,
but it may be more painful than a bear that may take longer.
Yeah, this, this depends entirely on the bear's behavior.
Yeah, we need a lot of specifics.
Unfortunately, if it was like a full body kerosene burn
and the bear was huge and it was planning on eating you pretty quickly,
what would the choice be?
I think it'd probably kill you.
It'd crush your skull or something or break your neck.
Well, let's just assume for the sake of the question
that it immediately goes for one of your legs
and just tears at it until it rips it off and starts chewing you.
That sort of thing.
I don't know.
I know how to avoid getting eaten.
That's not the question.
Well, I guess I've never really considered the alternative.
Is it like you're falling into lava and being like burned alive instantly?
Like I need to know the time frame.
I need to know the parameters of each instance to make that decision.
Can I use the fire on the bear?
No.
Oh, well then.
What if it's a fire bear?
Well, if I'm going to die, then I guess I don't really care.
I don't know.
All right.
Well, yeah, we did it.
There you go.
All right.
There you go.
I hope that's satisfied.
Title is clearly clickbait as it is still 2019 where I am.
I wonder if it still is.
I started in October and I'm only I started in October
and I'm only on Efap 50 part two getting there.
Get in there.
Yeah, there you go.
Pulling teeth is only painful if they're dinosaur teeth.
Happy New Year, Mola.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Dinosaur teeth as in like wisdom teeth or are they just fucking with me?
Maybe they're talking about Jurassic World's fallen kingdom
where they have the guy who collects the teeth.
Fucking plot point.
That sounds about right.
Why did you have to remind us of that?
We got another one of those coming in two years from now.
And it's going to have Sam Neill and Laura Durek as well.
It's going to be coming back, folks.
All the originals, guys.
It's going to be better.
Hold is going to solve the dinosaurs on the mainland problem by
hyper speed, ramming into all of them.
She's just going to run into them.
Just her.
Hyper speed, rutting.
Laura Duren's character.
Well, what's her name?
Ellie.
She's going to be the flash now because superheroes will now be a thing
in the Jurassic Park universe.
Why not?
The universe is already ruined.
Gotta go fast, boy.
Did anyone see that shitty short film?
It's supposed to be like a.
Yes, so they're the new one.
Yeah, that one.
That was trash, too.
Oh, God.
Can Colin Trevorrow just stop making shit?
And Universal just kill the Jurassic series once and for all.
You want him to make it extinct?
Yes, please.
Would you like it to be struck by a meteor?
Either that or possibly drown in Noah's flood, whatever.
Would you like to have it succumb, succumb,
scheme to starvation after the ash cloud covers the world
and all the large animals perish for lack of prey?
Vegetation.
That doesn't sound.
Sounds like you should.
A slow and lingering death.
That doesn't sound bad.
We should put rags on par to this project.
Rags, do you want.
I will do my best to kill the Jurassic Park franchise the way it deserves.
Like the.
Thank you.
Just like the actual dinosaurs were killed.
But it's a mercy ashy cold cataclysm.
It's a mercy killing.
It's fine.
Putting more incest in Star Wars was Disney's way
of making sure people were represented.
These truly are inclusive films.
There you go.
That's true.
That's true.
Don't think about that.
People don't think it could be like it is, but it do.
Does it?
It do be.
Yeah, it is.
Um.
When will you guys when you when are you guys going to get the guys
from screen tape podcasts on Efap?
I haven't asked them.
They're a bunch of faggots.
Not a fan of their content, to be honest.
I think that they kind of just like they've stolen everything from us.
A bunch of grifters.
I think that according to remarkable Republican, they would be a rip off of Efap.
Yeah.
Yeah, they're a rip off of Efap.
Robot Chicken predicted pals survival in 2012 through that.
That's so fucking true.
If Adam and Eve are the first humans, why are they depicted with belly buttons?
Because the story doesn't make any fucking sense.
What do you mean?
Wow.
Because that would be weird, though, to see a person without a belly button.
It wasn't that weird with a secret model that doesn't have a belly button.
Oh, my God.
Never seen it.
No.
All right.
Let me go Google Victoria's secret model sans belly button.
All right.
They shop in her belly button when she does like the catalog.
Right.
Wasn't there like a TV show a long time ago that was Charlie X or something?
And he doesn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like some guy that doesn't have a belly button.
And that was like all over the marketing.
Like, look at this guy.
He doesn't have a belly button.
Isn't that weird?
Carolina Kerkova is her name.
The Victoria's Secret model has no belly button.
Small indention, I guess, where a belly button normally is.
But there's no actual like.
Yeah.
They gave that to her.
So that way it kind of looks like she has one.
That's very strange.
No belly button.
How?
I wonder how.
I'm curious how that happened.
I think she had to have surgery when she was a baby.
And apparently that shows called Kyle XY.
Okay.
So I kind of got it.
I was thinking of Star Trek.
Perfect excuse to show off someone's abs.
It's the demographic right on.
And they actually make so her name is Carolina Kerkova.
Did you send this little veggie tail song?
It's relevant to the discussion at hand.
I'm not pressing play on issues.
Did you see the newest Cosmonaut Variety,
our Star Wars video,
where he calls out your subpar methodology
as being horribly long man and objectivity man?
Yeah, we kind of mentioned it earlier.
I mean, he's just.
That's him.
I'm sure he's having fun with that one sided conversation.
Quinton has a rose sex doll and before using it,
he screams Tico time and someone is.
It's Tico time.
He's I got to save my love.
His miniature Death Star.
Why am I so profile pic looks like it's going to eat my soul.
Yeah, I think so.
He's a horse.
He's a horse.
Just go ahead.
Oh, I've got a thing from the discord.
Oh, my God.
How did he not see that coming when he made that tweet?
Because he's not smart.
Because everybody misinterpreted him on this planet.
Apparently the words he used were just, you know,
so obscure, like the definition I just I'm loving how everyone that
loved the last Jedi and praise it.
Now they're all, you know, criticizing the rise of Skywalker.
And I was like, wait, but you can't criticize Star Wars.
But the themes, the themes of the rise of rise of Skywalker were their themes.
There was a theme of redemption.
There was a theme of family because that's what it's about.
Really, yeah.
About it.
I think it's funny that Patrick says that it's a movie about space wizards intended
for children because that's exactly what Rise of Skywalker.
It felt like the last Jedi doesn't feel like it's for kids,
but Rise of Skywalker feels like it's for eight year olds.
Feels like it's for pretentious assholes.
They had to be careful with the vaporizing old man palpitism face,
though, because they were like, oh, PG-13.
Yeah.
If only there was some way to stop this incredible pain all over my face.
Has Jay seen his other Rhino for Sona meme?
I don't know if that was before or after we'd shown the ones that we had.
But try tweeting at him if you think you may not have.
Yeah, if you feel like he needs to really if I mean,
he seems to have embraced his persona well.
So, yeah, that's great.
Always room for two, I suppose.
Wicked refused to move to the back of the bus and that caused the battle for Endor.
Oh, wow.
Bit of a little bit of a law.
He's moved to the back of the ATST.
Objectively spank us, daddy.
We've been a subjectivism.
Punish me.
Punish me using pre-established rules that apply.
So if Jay's not on stream, he's been milked in Wakanda?
He's being milked in Wakanda?
I mean, yeah.
One of the biggest exports, so.
Tross is better than Synecdoche, New York.
Fight me.
Oh, my God.
Lucky YMS isn't here.
He'd fuck you up.
I wonder if you'll ever finish that series.
I don't know that people can be like, set up a U-baller.
And I'd be like, yeah, you can.
I'll stop and you can do that.
I'm just still curious about a U-ball.
I'll show you all when I get TFA finished.
I'll show you.
I'll show you all, you assholes.
You're all mean, but I'll show you.
Bless you.
Bless you.
Just right.
Made an anti-Tross video.
Interested.
I'll have to check it out.
See what he says.
See what's up.
Could be interesting, I suppose.
Maybe.
Maybe.
New decade resolution.
Finish project under a year.
Have you even finished project in under a year?
I guess so, yeah.
Yeah.
That means you can get like 10 projects done at least in a decade.
Nice.
Yeah.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Why don't you tell people to donate through Streamlabs?
You get more money that way.
Because a lot of people just don't use it.
It's linked in the description if they want that alternative.
It's just that most people know how to use super jets.
YouTube home turf, that sort of thing.
But it's optional, whatever.
Also, cover Captain Marvel's XXX parody on 69.
We can't do that.
We'll get in trouble, Tism.
No, we'll just...
You can work around it.
Blur it out.
Yeah, we'll work around it.
Just don't show the vaccines.
Yeah, just as long as you don't show the nipples.
Just have all the guests watch it ahead of time.
We'll just discuss the plot.
No, just make an account on Pornhub and upload it there.
Oh, like stream on Pornhub?
Yeah.
I mean, you could stream on it, or you could just prerecord it and make it like an eFap movies
that you could then upload to Pornhub.
I wonder if we'll inspire a sister podcast that reviews porn on Pornhub Live.
It's about time we put the fap in eFap, all right?
Every frame of porn.
Oh, god.
Can we get some twos in chat to show approval for this proposal?
All right.
Happily Happy New Year's.
May it be covered with Jay's milk.
From Kieran.
Mola, will you finish the Game of Thrones rage?
I intend to.
It's just that it's behind a couple of other things on a list right now.
But yeah, I'd like to eventually.
Though, let's say the worst case scenario happens and I end up not making a sixth
episode breakdown, I really felt like my fifth one can operate as a sort of
finality to my perspective on how much they destroyed Game of Thrones anyway,
because I went through the majority of the main cast and how they've been destroyed at that point.
But yeah, no, there's still stuff in episode six that I'd like to talk about.
Thank you Rags and Skull on Wheels for hundreds of hours of Tism.
You have a celestial epic new year of spreading racism for the Nazi Chuds.
Oh, yeah.
Hooray.
So many memes.
So many Tisms.
Chat is clamoring for for option two, by the way.
I see a lot of threes and fives.
I see a 12 here and there, a 49.
Have to get out of the book.
A 69.
Lots of 69s.
Here you go.
I don't see any twos, though, by themselves.
There's a three.
I got this, a Z.
That's good.
Oh, my God.
That's almost a two.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
What is that?
I definitely can't put that on stream.
Oh, Jesus.
What is that?
Daddy Bowser.
It's only gaming advantage was here.
I think we all agree this is Mike's to class as fault.
I like that he wanted to clarify that it's not his fault that JJ Abrams did what he did.
It felt so genuine.
Like, I'm sorry.
It wasn't my fault.
Hey, Mola, would you ever review older or animated movies?
Also, Happy New Year from Australia.
Yeah, there's probably a couple.
Older is a bit relative.
Are you talking how old we go in?
I wonder.
Black and white movies.
I would do it for 12 Angry Men.
That movie is pretty kick ass.
Oh, that's a great movie.
And animated movies.
Yeah, I wouldn't.
I would love to add some older animated movies, some weird ones.
Yeah, like the one you sent us.
Yeah.
There you go, Rags.
You can review that.
We'll do that.
Cat, wizards, rock and rule, all that stuff.
I had to watch Felix the cat in one of my history of animation classes.
Happy New Year to all you Ewoks.
Thank you very much.
Also, I just saw Super Chat come in and say,
did you watch the big fat quiz of 2019 where they shout on Game of Thrones?
I actually do quite like watching that show.
And if they shout on Game of Thrones, that sounds wonderful.
Oh, I could make my make my decade.
I was wondering earlier today, what's an average day in the life of Mauler?
I assume Rags is a day filled with orgies and other sexism sports.
An average day for you, long man.
Editing, editing, editing, editing, sleeping sometimes or charging.
Now 2020 where I am.
I just think, I just think, I just think.
For me, it's all about the Poon Tang.
And then he records it and I edit the Poon Tang.
It makes sense.
But it's all perfect, so it's an easy job.
Caption here or there so you could make out what's being said through the moans.
But, you know, pretty basic.
Hey, Hitler, what do you where are you most ticklish?
I assume that's where you are.
Hmm, I would say the back of my neck is really ticklish.
Yeah, yeah, the front of your neck.
Yeah, front of your neck.
Yeah.
Now that's you guys going to have to get into a heated debate
because he said back of the neck.
You said front of the neck is down.
Okay, so the front of my neck is ticklish, but not the back of my neck.
I'm with Rags on that one.
Do we have to go and tickly are and find out where we were too.
Do people grab your neck?
This might be the most controversial disagreement.
No, I just it's weird.
I haven't thought about it in many, many years because no,
people generally don't grab my neck unless they're choking me while I call him daddy.
But there's no tickling involved there.
So it's beneath the feet under the arms, the front of the neck.
Aren't you a dog?
Don't like people scratch the back of your neck all the time.
Yeah, I'm sorry, the front of the front of the neck.
If I said back, I misspoke there.
The front of the neck.
I just like being rubbed liberally all over.
And then it was just silence.
So anyone else could feel free to fucking contribute whenever you goddamn will, please.
And they all chose zero.
Despite being zero point 13 percent of the galactic population,
Ewoks are responsible for five percent of imperial casualties.
Five percent.
That's that's that's a fucking law.
If it's the galactic ones, like shit.
Good for them.
Fuck the police when I when I get lost in court.
It's about that.
When I get lost in thought, it's about Hitler's tickle spot.
Hitler's tickle spot.
Oh Hitler's tickle spot.
Happy new year from the Czech Republic.
I love you more.
I wish you were single.
I could tickle you in all the right places.
Oh my God.
He's taken by a lot of tickling going on in the chat.
Stop tickling each other.
Schindler's List is just a movie about Earth Nazis intended for children.
Oh, happy new year by Ewok Broods.
See, I think Ewok is taking over like they had that meme about the choice
between saying the N word and Ewok.
And I think Ewok is just going to just dominate.
Thank you, Quinton.
Could you could you imagine if like within a couple of years,
there's going to be some CNN article about the word Ewok like an offensive term.
It's going to be added to the ADL's list of hate symbols.
Oh, it's Quinton.
Here's the source.
They track it down to Quinton.
Quinton gets contacted by the anti-defamation league.
A hate symbol recognized by the ADL.
Like, no, no, no.
I just mean all the black people could be replaced by Ewoks.
I mean, I mean, I thought you're going to go the other way with it.
Be like, by the time we hit like a decade from now,
we'll we'll have had so many beams and different ways to replace other ones.
We just have a whole effap language and nothing makes sense anymore.
Everyone just laughs awkwardly because they think they're not on the joke.
Well, we're already like halfway there.
I mean, don't you remember that?
Hello, Greedo stream.
That poor man.
He was he needed a dictionary.
Yeah.
Thank I'm Jamaican.
John Boyega has been tearing Reylo to pieces on Twitter recently.
It's glorious.
Guy's a mad lad.
Also high J and kick rags.
Oh, no, that's not how things happen around here.
Yeah, that's a wrong.
But the first part of that was right that he's ripping Reylo to pieces.
That's hilarious.
I'd be so cool if he came on on Efap.
John Boyega.
John Boyega, please come to Efap.
We would enjoy having you bring snacks.
Ewokander milking rhinos and killing stormtroopers.
That sounds good.
Hey, more.
Just want to say your videos help me start writing stories again.
Also have a good 2020 Efap crew.
We shall.
You too.
And yeah, good stuff, man.
Awesome to hear.
What about the themes of the peen?
The peen?
Mean, peen?
Oh, there's also some symbology.
Just look at all of the what do they call those obelisks?
More like symbiology.
Yeah, I don't like.
Ryan's disapproved of his own joke there.
Yeah, I don't know.
Kickfairy Jay.
Is that in reference to YMS?
It might just be Jay.
Oh, I guess.
Yeah.
Okay.
No, I think it's Jay.
All right.
Because he said Rhino because he's got big tits.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The rhino Jay.
Yeah.
Consult the Chinese 2020 new year animal
and ask yourselves what makes it good.
Oh, yeah, it is the year of the ride, isn't it?
That's going to be.
Why?
Wait, really?
What makes a year?
Yeah.
Holy shit.
Efap predicted this.
Even though we knew about it before, but it doesn't matter.
Efap 68, not 69.
So close.
Yeah, it'll be the next one that's 69.
I don't know.
That would be perfect for the Efap movies on
Captain the Captain Marvel porn parody.
Is it a parody if it's actually better than what it's based off of?
That's the real question.
The joke is they actually tried to write a book a hero plot.
They're successful.
It's just like, wow.
But don't they have like other superheroes in it that
Captain Marvel.
I don't know.
It's what I heard.
I heard.
I haven't seen it, but I'm sure we all need to.
Well, people were like leaking what the scenes were about.
And it's like there's, you know, there's scenes are the only thing that'll be leaking.
Yeah.
But I think like Deadpool's in it too.
And like a bunch of other superheroes.
Oh, man.
It's like Infinite Earths.
It's just I can't.
Oh, yeah.
When's the next?
When's the next Infinite Earth episode?
January 14th, as far as I know, 13 days from now.
Really?
So close.
We're getting there.
It's like sarcastic excitement.
There's no like real excitement.
I'm pretty sure Rags is actually excited.
I am actually like I kind of miss.
I kind of legitimately miss that woman.
You guys have like fallen into Stockholm Syndrome at this point.
Look, the hero Gotham deserved at least that universe Gotham.
Yeah, that Gotham definitely deserved nothing better.
Crisis on Infinite Earths is supposed to be like the comic book version of the Thanos saga.
It's like the end of multiple parallel dimensions and a reset of the DC continuity.
So for them to do it on the CW is hilarious because this
they have like the worst production value you could think of for superhero.
No kidding.
You know that Wi-Fi connection drops one bar,
YouTube video quality meme.
That's like the Infinity Saga versus Crisis on Infinite Earths on CW.
It's like the sound of dial-up connecting.
At least that was pleasant because you knew you're getting the internet.
This it's like torture.
I do appreciate it though every time that there's a Batwoman video that pops in my sub box.
I'm just like, oh boy, here we go again.
This is going to be some overacting.
This is going to be some non-logic.
Let's see how far we can.
Oh, in my Dark Knight Rises review, I'm planning on using the
music during the fight scenes.
I mean, there's a reason why they crafted that music.
It is top notch.
Yeah, Batwoman is nonsensical in ways that I thought were impossible.
I love it.
Every time Rags just mentions that she won't capture her sister and take her into custody,
I'm like, that's such a good point.
What's the writers reasoning why they won't do that?
At the end of this, that finale we saw, that's the last straw.
She's done with it now.
What she didn't realize was that Beth was gone.
You see?
Now she realizes that.
Did they ever answer why Beth didn't just walk her ass home after going off the list?
She was captured, I guess.
Yeah, no, she was captured in the woods by the creepy man.
Okay.
And when she got free, man, why didn't she just walk her ass home?
No, she became a supervillain and blamed everything on her dad who did everything he could.
Yeah, apparently she was already brainwashed by the skin mask man and pizza face.
Mr. Skin Man.
Oh my God.
I stopped watching this and the more I hear, I'm like, who the fuck wrote this?
Who sat there and was like, this is a great idea, let's do this.
This is like one of those, I taught a robot how to write an episode of,
I don't know, Grey's Anatomy.
And then they have this just nonsensical thing happening.
That's what they did.
My, my guess is that somebody that was in production,
talked to their friend that they know that doesn't have very much experience.
It's a rhetorical question, but I mean,
no such thing.
We're all about answers here.
I'm just saying that it's probably somebody that was hired because somebody liked somebody
else, as opposed to the reason why somebody should actually be hired.
So they just, they have complete incompetence, which is,
I love thinking about what it must be like to be on set every day and go,
what are we doing today?
Oh, that woman's gonna hit this girl with a batarang and not destroy her.
And she's going to dance around and we're going to have digital explosions going off.
Because you know that those explosions weren't there.
So they're just like, imagine what it's like to direct.
He's taking that woman and holding it over invisible explosions.
Like, should I like, with this cape anywhere in particular is like,
nah, we'll put the explosions in post wherever you are flinging your cape around.
Just go for it.
That's literally what happened.
That's a no music.
I think that my favorite part was when they got the impression of the license plate on that truck
off of the bat suit.
Then you find out later that, well, not later, but you like,
if you are paying attention, you notice that the license plate doesn't even hit the bat suit.
It was the right side of the, she gets hit by the right side of the bumper.
My favorite one is the underwater explosion that should be absolutely deadly.
And then like the, like everything about that is wrong.
Bullets don't travel underwater like that.
The cops shouldn't be shooting at a suspect that doesn't shoot back at them.
Like it's just perfect.
And whoever thought that up and whoever went along with it,
I want to hear that conversation because that must have been just brilliant.
Like, oh yeah, it's going to be great.
It's so dramatic.
And then they just continue along with it.
No questions about if it's going to make any sense at all.
We celebrated New Year's just over nine hours ago.
Well, that was in the wrong time zone.
So British is the one you were looking for.
Well, have you seen Cosmo Friday, our sequel Star Wars video?
No, not not fully.
I saw the first like 10 minutes.
And apparently there's a few vague references to being an objective Tism in there.
I just want to hear him say now the rise of Skywalker.
It's not like bad.
I just think it's bad, but I can't like it's not not objectively or anything.
It's just it's just my opinion that it's bad.
It's not actually bad.
Pretty sure he would happily say that.
Oh, Happy New Year.
My Ewoks.
Hello.
All my words have a new year.
Yeah, I was from blessed South Pole.
That fucking guy.
Oh, yeah.
Who's that guy?
Speaking of awful guests.
Go Babu Frick yourself.
That was the next one.
Wow.
Oh, go Babu Frick yourself.
Like make myself perfect in every conceivable way.
You Babu Fricks, you Babu Frickin Fricks.
Frickin.
Insert witty comment here.
Bill Borean bag Johnson.
All right.
Palpatine will be in Mandalorian.
It's Disney.
No, God, they might though.
He'll hear the whispers of it right.
On some distant moon, or he'll run into some Sith people who need them to track down a MacGuffin
so that they can restore the Emperor's life source and something.
That would be such a like, just stop it.
Just stop.
And Palpatine's like, oh, man, you need to.
He's just like, no, enough.
I think there's already news of like, they're bringing Darth Maul back.
They did in Solo.
Oh, right.
Darth Maul would be an obvious vote.
I went with Babu Frick, unfortunately.
It's too late for me.
Darth Maul would be my second choice if I had one.
New Year's recommendations.
Anime.
Kill la Kill.
Doctor Stone.
Black Magic.
M66.
All right.
Games.
Old Man's Journey.
F.E.
Or Fae.
I don't know.
Shadows of the Damned.
Also, Chase, what do you think of Sphere Hunter's review analysis of Death Stranding?
I will hang on to that question for him.
And it ends with Hi-Rex.
Hello.
My Mandalorian sequel choice is BB-8.
That could happen.
It could be BB-8.
How old is BB-8?
Is he like a teenager or is he an old man?
Or would it matter?
I really hope they don't bring back anything from the Disney trilogy.
But they already said they will.
No.
Yeah.
No.
Stop it.
Let it all turn to dust.
You have like episode 10.
Some guy just goes,
Ah, pretty about that.
That Ray, Poe, and Finn all dying.
They blew up.
Disappointing as my s-
Could you imagine if they decided to give us a Snoke backstory through the Mandalorian?
Oh, just pick up the piece and-
Team being alive.
Like they'll reveal.
Oh yeah.
Here's how-
Here's what Calpsey was doing between Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens.
The irony is that if they kept some of their newer characters from stuff like Rogue One,
like if they didn't kill all the people at the end of it,
they could bring them back for the Mandalorian.
Oh, spoilers.
Well, with Liar, they were doing a Cassian Andor show.
Well, that'll be a prequel.
Yeah, but that's gonna be a prequel.
It's like the Black Widow movies.
It's like, oh, let's go make a movie post-haste.
Everybody will still care.
And they'll still make their money back.
But people will be like, why are you doing this?
Stop it.
What if we got a Muppet baby situation, but with the sequel characters?
Sequel characters.
Baby Rey running around and she's like lifting.
She's and she lifts like an entire vehicle and someone's like, how can you do that?
And she goes, you gotta deal with it.
You know, we might be watching this episode, season two of The Mandalorian,
and they're gonna mention, yes, the target.
He's on a planet called Jakku and we'll go.
We arrive at Jakku, which is on edge.
Like, please, no, Rey, please, no, Rey.
Please, no, Rey.
Fucking Unka Plutt shows up.
We're like, oh, God.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Yeah, they're gonna do that.
They're gonna.
He was the one they were referring to.
The actual battle of Jakku is going to be part of the Mandalorian story.
They'll run into O.G.
Actually, actually, no.
So the battle of Jakku is shown in the Battlefront 2 campaign,
and that's before where The Mandalorian takes place.
I think that we're in the clear, unless Disney kind of forgets their timeline.
Or you have someone like Catherine Kennedy that says, we have no source material.
Forget their timeline?
What?
No.
Yeah.
Des in the chat says, Mendo will meet Rey.
She will take Baby Yoda under her wing and start the Jedi Academy.
I feel like I could see them showing Finn being taken as a child,
and the Mando doesn't save him, whereas he saved Baby Yoda.
Maybe.
Happy New Year's, you Massives.
Happy New Year.
Is Fringy and Ewokward also wags?
Um, no.
He's a green man.
Could be a green Ewok, right?
A G word, not an E word.
A green frog Ewok.
There's some kind of amalgamation there with all those words you can come up with.
I'm sure of it.
Just Right has bad writing in the title of his Rise of Skywalker review.
Question mark.
And TLJ isn't bad.
I don't get that guy.
He's very strange with the way that sort of standardizes everything else.
Strange man.
By bad writing, he means writing I didn't like.
Like he would unironically admit to that.
It's like, huh.
But it just doesn't have the same sort of sting, does it?
Like reading.
Imagine this video said, I did not like this.
All right.
Speaking of Jar Jar, a canon comic confirmed he was force sensitive.
There we go.
We've got our options.
That idea of Jar Jar being the orchestrator of everything and being like an evil Yoda is very
intriguing to me and would potentially save a lot of the people for me.
But it is.
You're one of those dark Jar Jar people.
No, I just say dark Jar Jar.
He is Darth Jar Jar.
You will refer to him by his real title.
He is the lord of the Sith.
No, I'm not saying I'm not saying that that's what it is.
I'm just saying that it intrigues me.
I like the idea that you're one of those people.
Well, the idea that he's like some secret Sith master or whatever,
and he's like a drunken boxer type like a Jackie Chan character is very interesting.
But let's say that he's just an annoying character that gets pushed out of the way.
It doesn't really improve the prequels at all.
But he was some kind of like actually intelligent creature.
I think that actually would add something.
So I'm not saying he was smart enough to be a senator, whatever that means.
You could definitely write it in and not make it stupid.
I mean, it wouldn't be dumber than other things that they chose to do.
And the prequels with Jar Jar already.
So I I'm just saying that, you know, I just think the idea in itself is stupid.
Sure, but Abu Freq was Snoke.
I think that's racist against Gungans and I disavow.
Yeah, just Misa think that the prequels are done.
There you go.
Misa think that the prequels are done.
How's it going, Masse?
What's the floor in Frick?
Darth Frick.
How's it going, Masse?
I've been watching Efap for a while.
My only fear in making movie review content would be to having my video end up on Efap,
especially with how cringy I felt my own content after a week.
I mean, give it a shot anyway.
Why not, right?
What's the worst that could happen?
Yeah.
Just stick to those principles, get that accuracy in there.
And what?
Someone going to say, hey, you are too accurate.
Like, the worst thing you'll get is they say you're too long.
They'll say you're nitpicky.
Yeah.
Too accurate.
Too nitpicky means you're being too accurate more often than I would like you to be.
Milk J's rhino fursona.
I think that's directed at you, Rags.
Me?
Why would you assume that's for me?
Because of that art we saw.
You remember?
That art is not canon.
I'm like, Disney, I decanonized it.
That's fair.
You do have those veto powers.
I'm OK with that.
So Amola and Aiden dating yet, she has a husband.
But I don't think that stops crazy, shippy people, right?
Crazy, shippy people?
Yes.
Oh, this one says tickle ER.
Go for it, Rags.
That's a news story.
Dog tickles, man.
Yeah.
Fate grand order and azure lane are better than shadow leg.
Well, maybe they meant like shadow legends, much like raid shadow legends.
Oh, yeah.
Maybe these are mobile games or something.
Fate grand order and azure lane.
They're better than it just a shadow leg.
Shadow leg.
It's a secret technique.
ER exists.
Chase.
How do you feel about dot dot dot?
Yeah, Chase likes to get his questions in with you.
You can tell he's fat.
He likes to see.
Chase likes to see if he's correct.
So he uses the the anime fountain of wisdom ER to tell him whether his anime opinions are correct.
It's so easy to get in contact with the ER.
I mean, obviously, you should just wait to ask the question.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Also, Chase, a classmate of mine went from high school,
made an animated video of Oni plays.
Jar Jar joke.
Look for the vid made by Acne McConnell.
If you want to tweet that, he'll find it.
But I'll also save it for him when he's next here.
Check out reset era's comments about Boyega.
I liked him better when he kept his mouth shut and knew his place.
Whoa.
That sounds like something reset era would say.
Okay.
I heard the word nigger.
That's what I heard.
I like how out of all the things that have been said tonight,
that was the thing that you reacted to.
That's really telling.
Reset era is way more race.
These are the tolerant ones.
Well, they got to watch saying stuff like that from their own team.
I'm pretty sure.
What is everyone's favorite racial or ethnic slew?
Also, Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Mine's definitely the n word.
Not even close.
It's just it's a classic and you should respect the classics.
Yeah.
Very influential.
Yeah.
I would also say nigger because it rolls off the tongue.
Saying it with the ER at the end is actually pretty funny.
You can't say it in a nice way.
In a nice way.
Nah, you can't say it with a hard R and be nice, can you?
It's like if you're being funny.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
It's a term of endearment.
Yeah.
It's funny.
You guys, have you seen Shaun of the Dead recently?
Not recently.
It's like they they use not not ER.
They use A and the good old Shaun of the Dead.
But even that, because I watched it with Wolf like, I think a month ago or so,
we were just like, oh, fuck, I forgot they said that this.
It's a surprise these days.
But yeah, I don't know.
I go with maybe Ewok at this point.
It's currently my favorite thing.
Quentin giving me my access to my favorite memes.
I kind of keep Quentin away from the racial slurs.
It was just shocking, really.
I always thought that he was an ally, but turns out he was the greatest enemy of them all.
Yeah.
No one fancies himself the villain.
He dislikes Asians more than blacks.
Maybe.
Just natural.
Spiders told me there'll be about 20 bad Star Wars takes next year.
If not, well, high rags and mauler and whoever is still there.
Hello.
Hi.
Hello.
Eight Efap is today.
We went from Efap to Eorgi.
Still got seven.
Jokes on you.
I'm in 2020 already.
Also, high rags.
Hey.
I support hashtag maiden, the long man in the long last.
Very well.
Um, I want to say.
I want to say hi.
No.
Put that on the screen.
Put it on the screen.
Oh, come on.
That makes sense.
God damn it.
It's all coming together.
The clues are there.
That's also from conga.
You just tell me the lie.
Tell me the lie.
Can you really deny this though?
That's pretty clear.
Maybe it doesn't feel right because it just fits so well.
No.
You can't say it about anal.
You can't say it about this.
Yeah.
If it feels so good, how can it be wrong?
Um, I want to say hi to n words from Rosselheim discord.
Oh, hello, Rosselheim discord.
I Greek guy.
I know how to check one new year's to see if the bangs outside were guns or fireworks.
It was gunshots.
Okay.
Sorry, Jane.
Baby Rose.
Tico's arc shouting this part doesn't deserve a spot in my diaper,
but it might make a good coaster for my drink.
Also.
Hi Rags.
Hi, Aidan.
Hi, ER.
I'm from Finland.
Also, sequels suck.
All right.
No, who can argue with that?
Saw Riser Skywalker with best friend again.
Lambasted every poorly written flawed minute of it.
Still enjoyed it.
He still loved it.
JJ's manipulation worked.
GG.
How so?
I mean, you haven't like it.
So if you think the film is terrible and you had fun with it still, did JJ succeed?
Like if you told him, yeah, JJ had fun with it.
And he was like, yeah, what'd you like?
And you're like, I didn't really like any of it.
It was awful.
I was just having fun.
Wouldn't he be like, oh.
I think that the emotional tone of the movie could connect with somebody if that's like
the thing that they're at the movies for.
They just like the fact that everybody's on a mission and succeeding in their
overcoming obstacles and meeting people from the past.
Like I could see somebody getting into that.
I just think that that person is probably really shallow with their investment.
Wow.
Very mean.
These people are very upset to hear that from you.
I think that if they like that, they won't be upset by anything I say.
Really?
Say the N word.
Well, that's true.
That's a good point.
Just say you walk.
This is cowards.
We're not allowed to say it.
Sound like one of my lips and throat everywhere.
I've already said it on my public videos with hundreds of thousands of views.
So I think I've done my part.
Thank you for my people.
I live in California, though.
They'll.
I've done my part.
I'm honestly.
Well, I'm honest with you.
Up the crackers who need to say it.
I'm I'm honestly, I'm honestly rather stingy with my use of it.
One could say that I'm rather niggardly with it.
That's true.
Niggardly is a acceptable word that has no racial connotations.
There's nothing wrong with saying that someone's behaving rather niggardly.
Exactly.
Rage, Shadow Legends, free to play until you play.
That's what I have to read out after that.
It's only it's only racist.
That word is only racist.
If you're saying that Jews are niggardly with their money.
Okay.
Oh, man.
Controversial phrases of 2020.
Those niggardly Jews.
Wow.
Sam.
I like how the only person who's not speaking is the one that would like most be associate.
Same wavelength.
Same wavelength.
He feels most at home, I'm sure.
She's in the back and she's just putting your fingers together.
Yes, yes.
It's all going according to plan.
Yes, yes.
Once they are the ones they're banned.
If Apple have to be on my channel.
My God.
Happy new year to all my GMT plus one massives.
This one actually matters.
Oh, the one that actually matters.
Oh, I guess that would be like Sweden and Germany right now.
I think.
Yeah.
So yeah.
All right, fine.
Here's to another lousy year.
Oh, that's not that positive.
Happy new year.
You filthy massives.
You too.
Aiden is my favorite gun.
She shoots straight facts.
Fair enough.
That was kind of.
I never measured my peepee.
Don't plan to reach their own.
You know who people, you know, people who say that are just
people who are disappointed.
Pretty much what they've already done it.
They already did indeed it.
Well, can't you just get an idea like compared to your hand?
No.
No.
That's not how men's.
Well, here's the thing.
It's like it's like your perception of how big your feet are.
Your head is your, you know, your vote, your viewpoint for everything.
And your feet are always pretty much always so far away from you
that your perspective isn't quite up to it.
Your penis is kind of the same way.
So looking at being like, it's about yea long and then you measure it up
and fingers together and like, oh, it's.
I know, but like some men have bigger hands.
I don't know.
I just I just.
You can get an idea of how big it is.
Get a stiffy and and face the music.
Just and I just measure your dick sometime.
Yes, my non-existent penis.
I will take the time out of my day to measure it.
Excellent.
You know, measure someone else's penis for him.
Happy New Year, everybody.
Hopefully I've timed this correctly.
Rags, how close do you know?
Yeah.
Two.
Happy newtisms.
Um.
27 minutes.
That is close, close.
I played Raid Shadow Legends for a while.
My bad person because the implication is that I should not have played it.
Um.
How much money did you spend on it?
Out of curiosity, person.
And you know, it's okay to have fun on it.
I'm sure I'm sure it's fun to someone someone who's shilled for it
must have actually liked it, right?
Like there's got to be one person who was like, you know what?
This game isn't too bad.
Probably one.
You got to download their launcher to play it.
It says get blazingly fast PC graphics, smooth performance and automatic updates.
Thank you, Masters, for the great content.
I've been following since TLJ released and hated it.
Just went back and watched A New Hope after Rise of Skywalker.
Why couldn't the rebels outrun the Star Destroyer
since they're smaller?
Why didn't Vader just pull the ship?
Because you see that isn't doesn't matter because it's about space wizards.
So shut up.
I tell the women my dinghy size is in square inches.
What if you had a penis that was square, not like a cylinder, but
like I swear, well, like a Minecraft penis.
Low polygon count.
Yeah.
Every time you reveal it, you're like, it's a condition.
But they're just like, that doesn't help.
This quickly went from 100% to like 1 billion percent in a millisecond and I love it.
Oh, I think that's about the penis measuring thing.
Like what I clamp down on it, like square size.
Like, like, can I can I vacuum seal my vagina with size?
Yeah, but it makes a really, really weird sounds.
The air.
It's not like it's clamping down equally or anything.
There's always a little it is to those four sides.
Whenever you push, it just forces the air out, you know.
Oh, God, and queefs abound.
They would just become standard.
Like, if she isn't queefing with every thrust, something must be wrong with your dick, bro.
Oh, my God.
I wonder if this will stay monetized, this re-upload.
That'll be really interesting.
Without the it'll be like trying to actually detect this shit or not.
Imagine trying to get your mouth around like a, I don't know, one of those paper milk cartons.
Oh, my God.
Go on.
And then just suck on it.
Happy New Year to all you Massives.
Long live the toxic brood.
Happy New Year.
There's a question for Aidan that I shall save.
I don't know what's going on.
I'm not watching live, but from the beginning.
Happy New Year, and here comes the Roaring Twenties.
Good shit, Fork JJ.
Roaring Twenties.
Here we go again.
The Roaring versus the Tismy.
Yeah, there's a war to be had there.
Did any of you catch the BBC animated specials this Christmas on BBC One?
I animated on it.
Our studio is hooked on eFap to the point where our story directors are hosting workshops on storytelling.
Oh, great.
That's great.
Wow, really?
It's really awesome.
After everything we've been discussing for the past like half an hour.
It's like, oh, maybe not.
Here, let's just let's listen to the recent the most recent episode.
We'll just go to a random talking.
Oh, my God.
Square penises.
Oh, nigger.
What?
You can't say that on the BBC.
Um, yeah, the clip was sent to the idiot.
That clip was sent to the BBC.
What is this?
These members of the toxic brood.
Yeah, cool.
Cool, if true.
Cool, good stuff.
Cerebies text too small and they refuse fixing.
What's cerebies?
Is it Serabi?
Isn't that lion or or Simba's mom?
Hyena.
Is it not?
No.
It's Shinsi.
It's Shinsi.
Serabi.
Spelt like that.
Serabi is the lion.
Serabi the Pokemon website.
Serabi's.
Well, I think that's what that spelling looks like to me.
S.E.
Let's give it a Google Google.
This is Serabi not.net where legends come to life.
Sounds like a fucking restaurant.
It's a Pokemon website.
Serabi, yeah.
How Serabi has remained the most important.
Pokemon news site for nearly 20 years.
Yeah, I guess it's a it's like a Pokemon news site.
Yeah, I have no idea.
Yeah, Jay, mute yourself and you eat.
Oh, my God.
I think I could.
I think it was like plate sounds when he was last with us,
that disgusting creature to think we put up with that.
We put up with that.
You guys can't hear.
Can you?
I don't think so.
It'd be fine.
Everyone's actually allowed to make noises.
It's just that whenever they make enough noises that someone in a super chat notices,
they become evil.
I'd rather spend New Year's drinking with you, Massives.
Happy New Year from Poland.
Thank you for company now and whole year in work.
I wish you all the best.
Hello, rags.
Hello.
Lovely kick for Jay.
All hugs for E.R. and longest kiss for Moolah.
Have a great time.
Thank you very much.
Kylo partaking in fornication.
Does it hurt?
I mean, we clearly did.
It killed him.
Oh, no.
Happy New Year's, gang.
Going to a Buffalo Sabres game tonight.
He is hoping they win.
And if they don't, I'm getting shitfaced all the same.
Cheers.
Ken Pie, all that good stuff.
Lesson Lynn.
Never borrow a guy's ruler.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
You have to inspect it first.
Yeah, just sterilize it.
You'll be fine.
I'm gay, so my preferred penis size is at least 10 inches.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, boy.
I think rags is a higher standard for men because he's more of a
het leaning bisexual.
In one stream, he claimed to love pussy, but he hates the baggage.
What?
Oh, depending on what you mean by baggage, like it's easier for me to get along with guys.
I think that's true for most guys, though.
By the way, this is the fourth image that shows up on Google Image Search
when you look up the word niggerly.
Do I want this in my search?
Wow, that is the worst image I've seen so far.
Oh, my God.
That's very strange.
What the hell?
What?
What was I expecting that?
What?
John, where is my lasagna?
Oh, anyway, we can delete photos from the memories.
What did you post earlier?
Sorry, what did you post earlier?
Oh, yeah, you don't really have a yeah.
Daddy bowser docking with everybody.
Dap it, please.
Dap it.
I just went urethral vore.
I think, oh, wait, extra money for Aiden getting on also high Aiden.
I shall see to it.
JJ Abrams making fake accounts to keep it at 86.
I doubt he kissed that much.
I reckon he's pretty much signed out once he's done his mandatory press stuff.
He's probably going to say goodbye to Star Wars forever,
and then whenever someone's like, you fucked it up, he'll be like, nah.
I'm doing bigger and better things now.
I wouldn't trust Ryan Tomatoes, though, at all.
Since we have ER and YMS on, can't we get some Life is Strange 1 and 2 banter going?
Oh, I guess we could have.
Oh, not too bad, though I haven't played too.
See, and that's what you should do, stream playing it.
Hmm, maybe.
Maybe if I really want to hurt myself.
But isn't it worth it for the fans?
Is it?
Yes.
I don't know.
Can ER answer the Jar Jar question?
As to whether or not he's behind it all?
I imagine, yes.
That's better.
Well, I mean, yeah, it's better than Palpatine, to be honest.
Agreed.
Anything's better.
I think at this point, we should make a name Ray Binks.
Ray Binks.
No, Ray Ray Binks.
Ray Ray Binks.
Ray Maul.
Oh, fuck that, Ray Ray Binks.
Ray Ray Binks, yeah, she's the offspring.
And it makes sense because he created with the Force.
Yeah, exactly.
That's exactly what I was thinking.
Let's make this trilogy, dude.
He's Darth Plagueis, and then Luke has to defeat Darth Plagueis with Ray Ray Binks.
Love it.
Uh, Misa will close the Bomba blue eyes and green eyes.
What?
Misa will close Bomba blue eyes and green eyes.
Is that a reference to Arya?
I don't know.
Closing different colored eyes.
Love Jar Jar Binks.
Well, he's the best character, isn't he?
I just want George Lucas in the sky.
Like dressed up as this guy screaming, like he's leading with a not-so-fucking-up star.
Or he's like, nah.
I love how that's what we're left with.
The history, the saga, everything that has happened in the last like 40 years,
it's Ray stealing the Skywalker's name,
which is a perfect metaphor for Star Wars and Lucasfilm.
They nail it.
It was stylistically designed to be.
Happy New Year's all.
Aiden Hart, E.R.
Oh, wait, no, Aiden Hart, E.R. speak up.
Hello.
There you go.
Rags, hello.
Hello.
Kick J, Chase, best anime of the year, Mauler, Longman Good.
Well, thank you.
I shall keep.
Hey, Mauler, the Discord banner thing is a little off on stream.
Oh, never mind.
Sorry.
It's because you're zooming in on it.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, whenever I take the tile off, it looks a bit weird for now.
That'll be fixed next time.
Give me a Jar Jar Binks played by Ving Rames.
Oh, definitely.
Great.
Or Danny DeVito.
I'm always up for him taking any role, especially Snoke.
That would have been perfect.
Longtime listener of all you folks.
Glad you came together for this.
Happy New Decade.
Happy New Decade.
Let's play Raid Shadow Legends.
Start now for free.
Happy New Decade.
Happy New Decade.
Happy New Decade.
Let's play Raid Shadow Legends.
Start now for free.
Wow.
I wish the Disney films were more like anthologies.
If we got five movies of character-driven movies with smaller plots,
I think it could have worked.
Then that's an option, I guess.
Like, they could have gone full Marvel with it if they wanted to.
He could have had a Bounty Hunter movie, a movie about a young person
discovering the Force, a movie about a pilot trying to achieve their way
through something.
And all of them eventually meet up with each other for whatever reason,
and they make Star Wars Avengers with it, you know?
They could have done that.
They could have done that.
That would have been what I would call
the corporate sludge in terms of exactly just repurposing
what they've already done because they know it works.
But if they actually nailed character stories, I'd be like,
well, I'm okay with it.
It's fine.
But instead, they decided to go with one of the worst possible
fucking things they could do.
And it was like, okay, that was an interesting choice.
I wouldn't have done that personally, but all right.
Rags is best boy for bringing up 40k.
Mauler, give him two headpats.
All right.
Mandalorian is overseen by George Lucas.
That's about so good.
I mean, he's in those like random photos and stuff.
Do we know how much influence George Lucas has on the Mandalorian?
I don't think he's overseen it.
I think he just popped in because he's really good friends
with both day for me and Jon Favreau.
But I don't think legally he can be involved
just because of everything that happened
between him and Bob Iger and Kathy.
Sounds right.
Oh, come on.
I literally just finished Defab 67.
More content.
We're jacking off.
More jerking innies with the niggardly ones.
It's perfectly legitimate word.
There's nothing wrong with it.
Hello, my n-wits.
You think there's something wrong with it.
That says more about you than it does me.
Any more efaps coming this week?
Since we've done a chunk of efappins,
I think we're probably going to take an efap off.
I can make sure I get my video done then and sort out
what's going on with Infinite Earths and all that tism stuff
and bring out Doom.
Doom will finally be released.
At least that's the plan.
Wait.
And then comes fellowship straight after.
It'll be wonderful.
But yeah, we're at the point now, I think.
There's going to be a whole stream of content.
2020 is going to be big tisms.
That's all I'm saying.
That's all I'm saying.
Yay.
I was always the one saying that Babylon 5 was better than Star Wars and Star Trek.
And now I'm the one laughing when they don't want to touch it.
What?
That's not fair, though.
Like the idea that it was better that they ruined it.
It's like, see, told you it was better.
It's like, but that's not...
You know, Star Wars was...
The further back in time you go, the better Star Wars becomes.
It just, like, improves.
And then as for Star Trek, I'm pretty sure it's the same case, right?
Like Discovery and the movies from Abrams are pretty much tripped on it.
Yeah.
I've seen Babylon 5, all of it, in fact.
I like it.
But if we would have Babylon 5 go against the OT of Star Wars...
Sorry.
And I mean, just the cultural impact that Star Trek and Star Wars had compared to Babylon 5.
Are you kidding me?
Like, I mean, you can have your preferences, but no way in hell does that stand to change
either of those back when they were in their prime.
They're not comparable.
It is pretty hard to compare these, yeah.
If you want a comparison, you go Deep Space Nine versus Babylon 5.
And then that's anybody's...
It's funny, I threw a Babylon 5 reference in one of my older videos,
and there's so many comments about it.
And I was like, oh my god, Babylon 5 has, like, a secret hidden fan base that don't talk much
about Babylon 5.
That's pretty funny.
You do when you drop the news about it.
There's a fan base for everything.
Ed and Eddie.
They're all, like, hidden.
Garden wheels.
Babylon 5.
Scooby-Doo.
Home movies.
Babylon 5 was a show that my dad was an assistant director on,
and was one of the first sets I ever visited.
So I have a special place in it.
I will concede that Jakkar's arc is one of the best ever,
like, character-wise across the long story.
It's really good.
Yeah, Jakkar, Jakkar, yeah.
Unfortunately, that guy died of cancer shortly afterwards.
But he was a really...
Oh, no.
Ernie and Bert, though.
Don't know if that's what it is.
Bert.
There you go.
Bert and Ernie.
Ernie and Bert.
Bert and Ernie.
Rags, what's the correct way of saying it?
Bert and Ernie.
And what?
Like, Bert and Ernie?
Ernie and Bert.
Bert and Ernie.
Old Bert and Bertie.
I'm just trying to get track of all that, you know?
I don't know.
I could text my aunt.
Bert and Ernie.
Here, I'll text my aunt and ask what the proper way is.
Thank goodness.
Bert and Ernie.
Does she reply?
Do you...
I have to do it, so no.
You're gonna text your aunt this late.
It's 1151.
They're up.
Do you...
It's New Year's.
Do you pro...
Do you say...
Do you say...
Bert and Ernie?
You guys irk my soul sometimes.
Or Ernie and Bert.
Bert.
Not beat.
It's Bert, silly phone.
Do you say Bert and Ernie or Ernie and Bert?
We may as well ask that, too.
Can we kick out Rags?
Is that a possibility?
You cannot.
Damn.
You can't.
You see, on screen right now, you're all between me and Rags.
And that means that you can't escape us.
You can't kick us.
You're inside us.
How does that feel?
I feel violated.
Well...
Sounds sexy.
All of you signed the contracts on your way in.
You should have read the fine print.
First video of 2020 I see is eFap.
Future is bright.
Absolutely.
It's been 2020 for 12 hours for me to catch up, fellas.
Probably in Australia.
A future.
Happy New Year, except Jay.
Awesome New Year to you.
Oh, so Jay gets a better year than us?
Yeah.
As a Dark Souls fan, have you seen Yumfa's videos?
I have not.
I don't recognize the name.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Apparently there's a Rey spin-off movie in the works
because that's totally what everyone wants, right?
What?
Oh, no.
I thought she said she didn't want to do any more.
I want confirmation.
How do you have a spin-off?
I want confirmation.
Well, yeah, after all, Joaquin Phoenix said that he didn't want to do a sequel to Joker
and here he is.
He's going to be doing a sequel to Joker.
Well, money talks sometimes.
And if it's the same team, who gives a shit?
If they do it right, if they want to do it.
I thought that turned out to be fake.
I really hope it was.
What?
What?
The Joker movie.
You fucking bullhorned shit.
I heard shit from you.
The Joker movie, too.
What?
It was me, right?
You sound like you're standing away from your microphone.
It sounds like you're like facing away from your microphone.
How about now?
There we go.
That's better.
That's much better.
Joker movie two.
Fake news.
Oh, okay.
I did hear about that.
I'm pretty sure Ra was the person who was telling us about that.
I can't remember.
Ra is very, very pro Joker.
Apparently, it hasn't been confirmed.
Okay.
The fact that you didn't think that.
Oh, no.
Oh, that's simultaneously clever and terrifying.
That's actual monster.
It's like someone painted a face on someone's ass.
What?
It was a baboon's butt.
It looked beautiful.
No, it looks like a simp.
Star Wars is a product of its time and should have been left alone
and used as inspiration for future space adventures.
I think you can easily make more Star Wars stuff.
Just stay away from the characters to be safe.
But if you have to touch them, don't ruin them
by doing everything opposite of what they are.
How about you just don't do that?
Probably anything else.
Eventually, Star Wars would just become Warhammer
and the fans would be like, well, fuck it.
I guess we got to do it ourselves then.
Hmm.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I'll do it myself.
Braggs picks up Infinity Gauntlet.
Here was such a trippy movie for me to watch for the first time.
Very interesting movie.
Yeah, I thought it was good shit.
Shing Godzilla 2016 is probably my favorite film of the decade.
You guys might enjoy it more than Godzilla King of the Monsters.
I mean, I did watch it.
I didn't think it was very good.
I'm sorry.
What?
Wait, what movie?
Shing Godzilla.
I can't remember like what my conclusion was in that film.
Like it was it was fine.
I definitely liked it more than King of the Monsters.
Yeah, King of the Monsters was a disaster.
It was really terrible.
It was awful.
Our Efap on that is coming out.
That what is after Rotate of the King, I think.
Oh my God.
Fuck me.
That was funny too.
We made that we made that last year.
Well, yeah, they were old doobies.
Did your aunt text you back yet?
Not yet.
Does she not love you?
Well, she might.
She loves many people, I'm sure.
I don't know.
Maybe she's with other members of the family and they're doing something.
And here I am.
Is she your blood aunt?
Aunt through marriage.
This one is a blood aunt.
You sure she didn't just see your name?
It was like fuck.
Why the fuck are you?
It's like surely if someone texted me at this hour, it's very important.
And then she reads it.
Do you say Bert nerdy or Ernie and Bert?
Did you do you have a PS?
This is extremely important.
The PS no pressure.
Oh,
I have an epic and celestial new year.
You bone chilling massives.
Also high Aiden.
It's yo yo.
It's really weird.
Check it out.
Oh, Ito's yo, I guess.
All right.
Saw fall of Skywalker last night.
And I have two observations.
One, that the movie was cuckoo for cocoa puffs.
And two, somebody please hit me hard enough for the memory to go away.
Yeah, there might be someone who can sort that out.
Get some access to just like a wood.
Maybe one is willing.
ER is ruining the podcast.
Talking over everybody.
Yeah,
dude.
Chill fucking hell.
Rags is trying to speak and you just go.
My bad, man.
Go ahead, right?
We're good.
All right.
I mean, you let you let me know about the that dragon butt thing.
No, that was someone that.
I just want to let you guys know there's a couple of niggardlies
shooting outside my fucking window celebrating the rigging in the new year to do.
I don't know.
Well, they aren't being very niggurly with their ammunition, at least.
The gunshots are actually Goliath 2.0.
Also, hi, ER.
Hello.
Ever seen the outpost trilogy?
Amazing zombie fun.
Nope.
Nope.
I'm terrified of zombies.
All right, then.
We did it, guys.
Zombies seem like they'd be spooky.
Yeah.
Number one, Aiden, your channel is the shit.
Yeah, it's good stuff.
I say this as an anime fan.
Virtually all anime is pure garbage.
The good ones are exceptions to the rule.
This is correct.
Happy New Year's, long man.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Happy New Year.
To be fair, Aiden at least stays in the stream for 17 hours.
Even if she's asleep for half of it, she should play it off as narcolepsy.
Also, hey, Mauler.
Hello.
And yeah, that's why I did ask about narcolepsy.
It makes sense.
My favorite movie of the decade is Joker.
I mean, yeah, I think there's reason to choose that.
I'm not sure I would.
I'd have to think about it, but it would be up there.
It's one of the good ones.
Um, Happy New Year's, my Massives.
We'll catch up Friday.
Very well.
Nova Hot Take.
The Last Jedi is the best movie of the last decade period
because it brought all of us together.
Happy New Year.
Also, hi, Aiden.
Well, that's a wholesome way to look at it.
Yeah.
The Last Jedi's good.
Yeah.
Maybe the real Jedi are the friends we made along the way.
I was hoping someone would make that joke.
That's exactly where it is.
Yesterday, I crashed my work truck into a building,
destroying a column.
Figure it's 50-50.
I don't lose my job.
Pray to the dawn for me.
Hope my 2020 ends with better than my 2019.
Oh.
Yeah.
Hope that works out, dude.
That sucks.
This disproves the whole maneuver.
It's not possible.
Yeah, he said 50-50.
It's not one out of a million.
Happy New Year's Eve app for the Weeb guests.
Have you seen any Gundam?
If so, any favorites?
Personally, Iron-Blooded Orphans is my personal choice.
I haven't seen a lot of Gundam, to be honest.
There's some good old Gundam.
I give it that.
I've been getting lectures on Gundam,
so when I eventually watch it, you can't answer.
Um, hi Rags.
Hello!
Hi Aiden.
Hi ER.
Hi Mauler.
And fuck you, Jay.
Um, hello.
And he'd appreciate that, I'm sure.
You just described War Horse.
Not sure that's referencing, uh, in terms of what,
who of what said who, where, why.
Uh, if we're discussing best films of the decade,
I still think that Scott Pilgrim versus the world, uh,
has hold since coming out of the start of the decade.
Uh, yeah, it might be valid, but I don't know if it beats out.
All of the other things.
It's pretty damn good.
Edgar, uh, Ray is a really good director.
And you guys Efap the movie Prophecy, 1979.
Uh, let me take a look.
Prophecy, 1979.
Let's take a look see.
Oh my goodness.
Um, sci-fi horror.
It's a, ooh, 27% of Rotten Tomatoes.
I think we might have a contender.
Oh my, I'm looking at screenshots.
Oh, go to images.
Oh my goodness.
It's a strange where.
Man Bay Pig.
Oh my god.
Is there a prophecy about a, a very ugly bear?
What the fuck?
You think this will be as good as the bear scene and annihilation?
Yes.
Oh, let's see it then.
One of the related movies is humanoids from the deep.
Humanoids from the void of anthro-poid.
Which brings some, which brings up humanoids from the void of anthro-poid
and Google images give me drag gun drag, drag connect loose and other strange beasts.
In case you're curious, you probably not.
There you go.
A Nazi, a horse and a woman walk into a bar.
Guess that bar is Efap.
That must've hurt.
Happy new year, everyone.
Happy new year.
Shin Godzilla might be my favorite film of the decade.
Fair enough.
Godzilla fans.
I think that was, that'd be the one people are going for.
No, we did it.
It's a new year here a few minutes ago, but I was, um, there you go.
It is now one 2020.
We did it.
We survived another decade.
Didn't even notice.
Yeah.
We were having so much fun here.
We weren't paying attention.
Not even there yet.
Happy new year, everyone.
Also high rags.
Hey, battlefield one is sexiest was the first video I ever saw of yours.
And I'm glad I saw it.
Oh yeah, man.
I, um, I had a lot of people join when I made that.
By the way, battlefield one still holds up plays really well.
It's a good game.
Uh, Mariah Carey.
I was hacked.
I swear the alien game references hashtag maiden about three hours in.
Give or take 10 minutes.
Oh, that's where we're at with the super jazz.
How long was the first off?
I can check within like four hours or so, right?
I believe so.
Uh, four hours and 41 minutes.
All right.
All right.
Uh, the charging station for my car had a failure.
I have to wait four hours in my car now before driving home.
Thank God for Efap and high rags.
Whoopee!
Hello.
I got fucking marinated.
Happy new year, Aussies.
Oh.
Does that mean married or just not that at all?
It's completely alcoholized.
Make Donald Trump the president of Lucasfilm and make Bob Iger the space emperor.
We can live with this compromise.
Hi, Raylows.
Happy new year, rags.
Happy new year.
Oh well, this is wags actually.
Yeah, Donald Trump, president Lucasfilm.
We'll see what we'll see what happens with that.
I guess.
Why not?
The Joker is arguably one of the best.
Agreed.
Arguably.
More like Shane Hack, right?
Yes, actually.
Yes.
Ha ha.
Good stuff.
Yeah.
Just broke my phone while it works.
And now here's some money for you Efapers to help break in the new decade.
Also, hi, wags.
And kiss J.
Which one?
Well, I don't know if you want to even go that far with this.
This thing.
How did they spell it?
This this ends with dab.
How they spell J.
Still want to answer it when it ends in dab.
I think that I should know what I'm getting into either way.
Well, it's spelled J-A-Y.
Oh, nah.
Thanks for the money though.
They dabbed for you.
They dabbed for me?
Wow.
Gosh, gee golly willikers.
Now that you mentioned that.
Um, IGN.
Ah, stop.
What just happened?
Oh, that is creepy.
Oh my god.
Can you please put that on screen, Mahler?
Show it to the world.
The world needs to see it.
The world deserves it.
This is just cruel.
It's a sexy ass monkey right there.
An ass monkey?
Ew.
This is more of a romance story than Reylo.
You know what?
That's true.
That's thought ironically true.
Like at least these two are both into it and nobody's dying I'm assuming.
Now is that a monkey mask?
That just like a rubber mask that doesn't articulate or anything?
Sounds horrible.
You better be.
When you blow an ice cream to cool it down, why would you want?
Uh, IG had put Joker on a best list with Black Panther.
Oh well.
You know, sometimes, you know, the hit miss.
Yeah, 50%.
That's fairly high for IGN.
Yeah.
Jay's window sounds like a Texas barbecue.
Yeehaw.
Fair enough.
I wonder if he's still alive.
How did devil survive second door with just horn broke?
Oh, that's Mandalorian.
I don't know.
The way the door closes on him, it looks like he probably would have just died,
but apparently just took his horns off.
Yeah, because that's what happened at that scene.
Fair enough.
I remember when I got attacked by Satan, I was like, ah, slam him in the door.
He was Clancy Brown.
That's cool enough.
Yeah.
Fucking brags for this.
Wonderful memes.
Look at the chat.
Just randomly hear us still giggling.
We were like, what the fuck are they looking at?
They have no idea.
And it's totally unrelated.
No!
I can with the monkey.
Look, it's just that monkey's got a dick hole in his diaper.
It's not a monkey.
It's a genie lock.
Okay.
See if my aunt is blind.
Oh, I love that gift.
Or I mean, excuse me.
I have a good version of it, too, that one.
We can do gifts.
We can do all kinds of gifts.
We got all kinds of gifts.
I just did Christmas.
That was all kinds of gifts.
We got Christmas.
It's Christmas.
Grimace.
Grimace.
You push the button.
Brags, you blew up.
Best.
It's for the best.
The button.
Sometimes I just want to blow up like I don't know nobody.
Happy new year, massive.
I'm usually shy to do this, but I'm so drunk, so screw it.
Hi, Mola.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
No, no, no, Aidan.
Male Twi'leks in most things have two leku.
All right.
All Twi'leks have two.
Yeah, she said that males have one or something.
No, they have two.
It just looks like they have one.
Yeah, because some of them have it wrapped around.
But, I mean, yeah, I mean, any action figure that I have, too.
That's just a thing of the issue, too.
Can you shoot any closer to my fucking window?
Sorry.
You better knock on wood so you don't jinx it.
We got to say, hi, Wolf.
Love you and miss you truly.
Truly.
Three hours in, huge year, Mola.
You're inspiring lots of people.
What advice would you give to new creators as they face naysayers,
misers, and other disabling influences?
What's been your experience rising above those who drag you back down?
Right.
Scream inspired.
Geography by Ryan Jackson.
Oh, banana peel.
So, yeah, the banana peel was edited in.
No shit.
Really?
Because at first I thought it was a horseshoe.
Weird, it's a horseshoe.
Oh, it's a banana.
They should have had someone editing a batarang that just flew into him.
And it should have come from Batman's, like, waste.
And it's just like it's his auto batarang.
It makes complete sense.
Everyone would have believed it.
Or maybe when he kicks that one dude's arm,
it, like, causes the gun to fire and it knocks that guy over.
Like, that could work, maybe.
Maybe that was it.
And they just forgot about the special effect.
But, like, all three of these, like, you got three guys in this one gif.
They all have guns and they try hitting Batman with their guns.
You've got the first day they takes down.
You got the guy that he kicks and then punches.
And then another guy at the very end comes with, you know, with his gun,
trying to close the distance rather than just shoot Batman.
And then you got finally you've got that guy that has a clear shot on Batman.
He just fucking slips on nothing.
No, he said the invisible banana.
Just throne room to your choreography.
But yeah, disabling influences.
Rags, how do you how do you push past any sense of being reduced or disabled in YouTube
in all forms, from enemies, from from evil doers or even from yourself?
How do I do it?
Sure.
You got to have confidence.
Yeah, you can't let them get you down.
That's what they want.
It also helps to have, like, accurate references on your site.
I swear to God, I talk about accuracy a lot.
It's really useful.
It helps you out.
For example, they say you do X and then you have proof that you do Y and help your state of mind.
Stop setting so many memes in the chat and chat.
I'm gonna be like, what the fuck's going on?
Yeah, I don't know.
Like, the whole thing with with Jabbie Nicholson that happened.
Like, that was like, how do you how would you survive something like that?
Like, oh, well, he was you try and make some fun out of it, I guess and be like
proving people to be wrong as fuck and then like reflect arguments back when
they make really bad ones.
Basically, nothing happens to mauler.
Everyone else just suffers for it.
I was gonna say anybody who follows me gets blocked by loads of people.
Like, why is like, I don't know, just hates everyone who follows me.
It's a it's a weird experience.
Yeah, but naysayers and mises.
Well, yeah, try not to listen to them.
Don't take them too seriously if they if their criticism is like baseless.
Because as ranks just said, that's their goal is to fuck with you.
So fucking stop them, throw them up, be like, no.
The director's cut of Blade Runner was better than the theatrical vision.
No stupid voiceover from the main character.
The film's much better that way.
Yeah, the voiceover is great.
The diversity in The Witcher isn't too bad.
It's just kind of in the background.
It doesn't affect the plot too much.
I've seen it.
Could see it probably.
Apparently Lucasfilm wants George Lucas back.
Oh, what a surprise.
If there's something official on that, it's gonna be hilarious.
But go away.
They're like, wait, don't go away yet.
Come back and fix our dumpster that we did after telling you we don't want you involved.
It's pretty funny how with like a stroke of the brush, they decanonized all of the EU.
They could undo all of their damages by decanonizing the sequel trilogy.
They could do it.
They've got the power.
Well, then there's all that stuff going around that they confirmed
night to the Old Republic and Revan.
And it's like, okay, so you want that.
But you just want to throw away Thrawn.
You want to throw away everything that happened afterwards.
It makes no sense.
It's rude, I tell you.
Happy New Year, my E-words.
All the best for 2020.
Keep E-fapping in the free world.
Yes, ma'am.
Hey, it's Shark Bitch.
Shark Bitch.
Shark Boy and Lava Girl.
Bond Ray.
Maiden makes more sense than Reylo changed my mind.
Anything makes more sense than Reylo.
Weird and creepy.
The monkey and the chick make more sense than Reylo.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Happy New Year, 2020 will be the year of the E-walk.
Oh.
Year of the E-walk.
Why did I Super Chat?
How did you Super Chat?
That's what the Super Chat says?
What the fuck is that meme?
What the fuck?
What the fuck is that?
Mr. Reylo.
What?
Damn it.
You're bringing in.
Sicario is my second favorite movie.
Thoughts on two?
I hate it.
It's terrible.
Oh, that's awful.
I'm sorry.
No, Sicario 2 is the reason why I don't take Chris Stuckman seriously as a reviewer
because he gave that movie an A minus, so fuck him.
Seriously, Sicario 2 can go fuck yourself.
It's such a sequelitis movie.
Let's do the first one again, but everything sucks.
You want to be a Sicario, huh?
They want to make a third one from that.
I'm pretty sure it's going to happen.
It's going to be awful.
The only way I could survive is if they just simply pretend that that's the real Sicario 2
and the Day of the Soldado never happened.
I feel like they're going to have to start doing that with everything.
Everything that was made in the past fucking 50 years, decanodize everything.
It's like, wait, what about the good stuff?
It's like, I don't care.
Decanodize it all.
Happy New Year's, friends.
Half of 67 left to watch and I'll have caught up entirely.
It's been a wonderful journey.
Also, Jeb Nichols' aggressively ignorant comments on mental illness are reminiscent
of early 1900s psychology.
Shame.
Yeah, they were kind of weird, to say the least.
Blade Runner book is wrong.
How can you cut legs off a spider?
Spiders can tell the future.
Pretty much, yeah.
That's kind of a major plot hole.
Adaptions are sometimes superior to the original.
I mean, yeah, certainly possible.
Yeah, we discussed that.
How does the Stalker movie compare to the books and games?
I don't know.
They're both awesome.
Everything is awesome.
That has to do with the roadside picnic.
The book, the original short story is interesting and has its own narrative
that's slightly different from Stalker, the movie, has the same philosophical meaning.
And then the game takes that and gives it its own sauce.
It has its own way of perceiving what that story should play out as.
It's much more militant and combat oriented.
But all of them are good, worthwhile.
It's Better in Black and White is the most hipster thing I've heard.
I mean, I can definitely understand how that would work.
The CGI, or at least the creature effects, are obviously going to look very different
and possibly more believable, immersive.
It can put you in a different sort of frame of mind when watching something in Black
and White versus color.
Maybe it's a little bit hard to explain, but I could understand the argument.
The author of Under the Red Hood comic book prefers the animated film.
Then again, he made both.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The comic version of The Dark Knight Returns is better than the animated version,
even though it has Hamel and Kevin Conroy.
Sometimes it's just worth.
I can't believe they electrocuted Kevin Conroy.
Wait, what?
They should have done a series where he plays older Batman and done a live action Batman Beyond.
Were you vaping when you started those sentences?
When he got electrocuted, he went to heaven and now he is truly Batman Beyond.
And he plays the ghostly spirit of Batman who inconveniences criminals with guilt.
That sounds like a specter being Batman.
Same DC, a cop that died and then came back as a spirit of vengeance.
And I still think Michael Keaton should be Batman and Batman Beyond.
They do live action.
I'd be down with that.
Love you, Efap.
Happy New Year's.
Happy New Year's.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry, I made a mistake.
Not Dark Knight Returns, but Killing Joke.
Thanks to Frosted Robot.
Why would you do that?
My mom is involved with Idris Elba.
How much did they pay him?
She desperately wanted to see this movie because of him.
But then like I said, we watched the first few minutes and she's like, nope,
fuck it.
Are you going to put that up on screen?
I've already kissed the audience to have seen it already.
Did Idris Elba actually say that about Marvel?
Yeah, he he well, not verbatim, but he basically complained about having to be in Marvel movies.
I'm not familiar with that quote at all.
You know, I'll go ahead and look that up right now.
Because I mean, was it one of those things where when he signed on,
they were telling him his character was going to have more of a.
He wasn't going to be just the side character.
And then, you know, once he actually got the script and he saw that wasn't true,
and it was just a side character.
And so after that, he was bitter and said, oh, you know,
these movies are kind of beneath me or they're torture to do.
Oh, let me see if I can.
I want to know the context behind it, because I feel like Idris Elba,
he kind of just does stuff that he's interested in.
Like, why would he be on, you know, the show The Office for a few episodes?
Why would he do what was that one romance movie that he did with the Chikram Titanic?
Hey, what is this snow moving?
Judy was dragging her ass up a mountain.
Yeah, it's just like something.
Yeah.
You actually look at all of his work.
It's like, why would he do all of these movies, you know?
From some screen crushed article.
And the quote is, I just done eight months in South Africa filming Mandela,
Long Walk to Freedom.
I came to England and the day I came back, I had to do reshoots on Thor 2.
And in the actual scene, my hair was different.
I was like, torture, man.
I don't want to do this.
My agent said, you have to.
It's part of the deal.
Well, he's doing reshoots and the wig is wrong.
So, I mean, I kind of feel for him in that sense.
Already done it and they didn't get stuff right.
And he's irritated that he has to do it again.
And he can't just have his fingers.
Well, then there's this.
I agree with that.
Hold on.
There's another quote that he says.
He says, I'm actually falling down from a spaceship.
So they had to put me in harness in this green screen studio.
And in between takes, I was stuck there.
Fake hair stuck onto my head and with glue, this fucking helmet while they reset.
And I'm thinking 24 hours ago, I was Mandela.
I was literally walking in this man's boots.
Within six months, the crew, we were also in love with this film we had made.
I was Mandela practically there.
Then there I was in the stupid harness with this wig and the sword and these contact lenses.
It ripped my heart out.
I honestly feel for him.
If he's hanging from a harness for hours on a scene that he has to reshoot.
I don't.
I mean, I see where he's coming from in that sense.
But Cats, maybe he just needs money.
I don't know.
Or maybe people like to.
Or maybe he just likes to play Cats.
I don't know.
People, Cats is a really popular Broadway show or had a really popular run.
So I understand why people would want to be in that.
But when I heard that the director that did the Les Mis movie was doing it,
I knew it was going to be a disaster because he has this very weird aesthetic
and way of looking at stuff that's off-putting.
So it makes sense that the CGI is that bad.
But I think people forget Idris is really, or Idris, I don't know how to pronounce names.
He is really into music and stuff.
He actually tours as a DJ, if I'm not mistaken.
So it makes sense that he would be upset about his schedule
getting messed up for a Marvel movie.
Yeah.
It's like, oh, I'm doing this big acting thing.
And then he's over here doing music theater and DJing.
Do you feel more dignified saying, I blacked Superman.
Jim, I have no idea.
But he's a funny guy, so I don't understand why.
Maybe that was more fun to film.
Fast and Furious shit, you know.
I feel like there's like a weird career choice thing where an actor has to go.
I'm going to make one for the studios and then one for me.
And one for me could be a lot of different things.
I also have to ask, did the people that signed on to be in Cats,
like did they know at the time that they signed on
what the Cats were going to look like in the movie?
Probably not.
No. No way.
They probably had no idea until the end.
I don't think so.
Like they'd have to do motion capture, I assume.
So they had to wear the stupid motion capture suits.
That's great, but Jim is.
And then...
Yeah.
But I don't think they actually realized that it was going to be some horrifying
abomination that would make Sonic's original design look like Sonic's new design.
Honestly, I think the same thing with audiences.
They hook other actors.
They hook actors with the star power that's behind the movie they're going to be in.
Before anything else.
Like, oh yeah, you know, you want to work with this person.
They're going to be in it.
And this director is going to be doing it.
Like, why don't you do it?
They don't talk about like, oh, okay.
So technically, you know, technologically, how is it going to make me look?
Am I going to look like shit?
This is going to ruin me.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm sure they could dazzle it up in the contract.
And then they show concept art probably, but that's the extent.
Cats is also kind of an abomination just in general.
I agree with cats.
The Broadway show is kind of weird too.
Um, happy new year.
It too.
Porto.
Mitt.
Cape Verde and Azores.
I don't know what to make of that.
I don't know if they're movie names or not, but all of them are terrifying.
How long is the Efap going for?
Well, four plus.
About forever.
Eight and a half hours.
Currently.
Um, so who's Efap's new Brett Keene?
Uh, diabetes, I guess.
I don't know how to tell.
These things only become clear once you have enough to look back upon.
And we are still collecting.
This is worst.
Dreit.
Wattrick Pillums.
Wyve Mob.
Ausef Jendison.
Rutan Quavuze.
Sackjained.
Nanny Jickelson.
Lager Me.
Remarkable Republican.
Well, yeah, that's how that would have worked out.
It too.
Lay-a-she.
Work you.
Gesundeis.
You have to be Movie Bob's sex slave.
What?
Why is that just?
That's just a superchild.
So there's no like, you know, there's no, there's no either.
Or there's no bet.
There's nothing there.
It's just that.
Keep dressing like Jabba the Hutt.
Is that the thing?
Maybe that's pretty fun.
That's somebody doing.
I can tell you right now that Australia is apocalyptic desert wasteland,
especially with the gigantic fires going on here right now.
Yeah, I've been seeing some pictures of them.
There's like places in Australia right now.
They're like red because of the fires.
Like at daytime.
This just looks like a weird sci-fi movie.
Terrible.
Pure conspiracy.
Jay's hat is hiding his rhino nips.
Not going to say it's impossible.
Not playing rhino nips, but.
He's like that character from, what was that Adam Sandler movie?
Adam Sandler.
No, you guys know something I'm talking about.
Where he's like the devil.
Little Nicky.
Oh yeah, I know that one.
Oh, I know what you're talking about.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pineapple up Hitler's bottom.
It's a strange movie.
Jay is gay.
All right.
I finally watched Rise of Skywalker with friends.
TS version, of course.
It is worse than TLJ.
As Shad said, it's absolute garbage.
Also watch Starcrash.
Starcrash?
Yeah, I don't know that one, but all right.
Starcrash.
Not snowcrash.
Starcrash.
Oh, okay.
Han congrats Luke on his Death Star kill shot by calling it one in a million.
Even the throwaway line is a dirty callback.
Hi, Rags.
Hey.
Oh yeah.
I mean, the thing is with that one, though, is he's like, you did so well.
That shot was like one in a million.
Like, is this sort of like, you're so fucking good at this.
Good job, buddy.
Well, the maneuver.
Yeah, the maneuver itself.
Yeah, that's I'm sorry.
It's not only that's really a callback in Rise of Skywalker.
That's just a throwaway line to try to fix the fucking mess that Ryan made.
Didn't do that.
That moment.
I said try.
That moment in the original is like the climax of the whole battle
that Han Solo comes back to rescue his friend and help him out
and saves Luke Skywalker and becomes a hero.
Doesn't you know, he basically redeems himself in that moment.
There's nothing like that.
And and, you know, there's no characters in the sequel trilogy.
There's props.
That's about it.
Australia isn't worth much anyway.
Oh, that's not true.
They got the animal.
They got all the animals, even if they're like, even if they'll kill you, Derek,
they're still there to go.
Olas and kangaroos.
And they got a loser dickheads.
They're cute.
Don't you dickheads?
They are cute.
Kangaroos try to strangle dogs.
OK, there is a viral video of a dude punching out a kangaroo in the face
because it was choking his dog.
That's fucked up.
That's interesting.
So cute.
Using that logic, what do you think of?
Of what?
Nothing.
Forget I forget I mentioned that.
Oh, no.
Uh, Mola, here's that Aiden as well gets the big peepee.
That's that's inappropriate.
That's terrible.
Read and watch Lord of the Rings, Jay.
Yeah, that's something that we'll be saying for the next 20 or the next decade.
So we can't get him to watch the damn things.
And there's some of the best movies ever made.
You think he's going to read them?
Maybe.
Wow.
I mean, yeah, I hope.
But yeah, don't hold your breath.
Um, the setting doesn't inspire conflict, even if the character motivation is there.
You got to name more names and bring up the Iron Man and Hulk fight.
Not New York.
You massives.
That was on the list.
The Iron Man Hulk fight and they brought up Sokovia.
There's nothing worse than Sokovia.
Um, uh, Aiden Paladin, YMS and ER MCU death cult 2020.
It was, it was a crazy adventure.
Doomsday clock is by so far my favorite comic story of all time.
I'd say DC is doing a much better when it comes to comics.
Y'all agree?
DC is doing better.
Apparently.
Is that what he said?
Yeah.
Um, they're both just on a steady decline, if not plummeting decline.
Yeah, no, I suggest to everybody that's a comic book fan, go get into the
blacklist universe stuff.
Even though there's like a schism with all those comic book pros or whatever.
They all have really good content.
So if you're a fan of that, go for that.
But DC and Marvel are both bad.
DC had this whole thing where it was the year of the villain.
So they were just doing spotlight comics for their villains.
I went into a comic book shop recently.
Like thinking, all right, I'll just go get something.
Something will pick my interest and nothing did.
DC showed us Batman's junk.
How was it?
It was junky.
It didn't make sense from certain angles that it would stay the same size.
Or, you know what?
They do change size.
Well, no, no, no.
So let me tell you, if you're at the top of Wayne Manor looking down and Superman.
Now, when you say Wayne Manor, you mean like the building, right?
Yes, you're you're looking down at Bruce and he's maybe about the size of a peanut,
but you can still completely see his junk.
And it's basically the same size as it was on the page before.
I'm just like, who's John?
Well, wait a second.
Maybe he was when he was further away, he was a wreck.
And when he got closer, he had calmed down a bit.
So it seemed like it was the same size.
No, no, no, no.
This man is well endowed.
He was not happy at any point during this comic.
He was just walking around his house naked and in the back gave naked.
And then people were upset because he was a circumstance.
So is that is that the Tom Kane run of Batman where he's dating Catwoman
and they just like on vacation.
No, no, this is like I think that it is Italian.
But the one where he's dating Catwoman and he actually is married to Catwoman now.
And he's just like completely verient to her.
It's like, what are you doing?
Yeah.
Comic books are no longer about the spectacle.
They're all about whatever the author is trying to put out.
The dialogue is so bad.
The whole bat of Wang.
Yeah, I like that.
Bruce Wang.
I'm enjoying.
Thank you, Chad.
Of course, there have happened.
Oh, yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Woo.
Yeah.
All right.
That's a super chat.
Like the Torchwood bit where someone says, if you're the best England has to offer,
God help you.
And Gwen replies with, I'm Welsh and a face punch.
Good for her.
Monosodium glutamate.
Someone super chatted that.
Monosodium glutamate.
Yeah, boy.
Nothing like a bit of science.
Nothing matters in Marvel Comics.
All the characters exist in a narrative purgatory where they can never leave.
Nothing changes.
No one dies.
They aren't real stories with beginning, middles, and ends.
Is that for the comics or for the MCU?
Comics, apparently.
What are you talking about?
They kill off a ton of characters.
All comic books have to be rebooted at a certain point because their runs get finished.
And then there's frequently new people that are brought in to write the character.
That's kind of par for the course for comic books.
The best ones, I feel like, are limited runs.
And that's when you get something like an Alan Moore.
But that's not the mainstream comic business.
I mean, think about it this way.
Amazing Spider-Man has a thousand comic issues, I think.
And imagine if it was that one story and didn't have any resets.
And you just kept going with that.
I mean, Spider-Man would be like a 50-year-old man.
What if they just made the comics in real time?
There you go.
So they tracked him over his entire life.
And he'd eventually be like an 80-year-old Spider-Man.
He could barely get his webs out.
He could barely crawl on the coffee table.
Well, I mean, when they did like the Alex Ross run of superheroes and you have Batman
and he's like in this complete like metal suit because his body is just completely
mangled from all the years of fighting that he did.
Wait, you're talking about Crisis on Infinite Earth?
Yes.
Why is everyone laughing?
What happened?
It's because of the TV series.
So if you haven't seen Crisis on Infinite Earth, you won't like it.
If I haven't seen it, I won't like it.
Have you heard any of us talk about it?
You won't like it either.
I mentioned it on a new article, Geeks and Game of Stream.
I can't quite remember.
They were all shocked to discover what happens in the episode.
Apparently, it's just not spread around what happens in that episode.
Should we tell her, Mauler?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Just quickly run down because that's hilarious to me.
Well, it's like the biggest event.
Well, they turned Bruce into a crazy codger.
And it's not just any Bruce.
It's Bruce played by Kevin Conroy.
I think I saw pictures of him.
They need him because he's the paragon of courage.
And so they go to him and turns out he's like an angry old piece of shit
who hates the universe and wants everyone to die.
He tries to kill Supergirl and Batwoman stands in the way.
And so he tries to kill Batwoman and then he gets killed.
And then turns out Batwoman is the paragon of courage.
And for some reason, this Batman has a half naked
dribbled black kid in his house.
What?
Wow, for some reason, it's like there's just like a young,
fit black dude with no shirt on.
It was funny.
You were like, where the hell was this Luke?
And I'm pretty sure when we watched it, we were like, where the hell was this Luke?
Everyone wants this.
We got shitty Luke.
Yeah, it's like a reverse.
Apparently, no, even in the universe, she's from Batman was shitty
because he has to be shitty.
How else will you lift up?
Did they go into the future?
Why is Batman that old timeline?
Different dimension.
Did you read the crisis?
I mean, for those comics from back in the day, a long, long, long time.
I mean, it's like the framing method is like they're trying to do a big
crossover event to attract attention to all the CW shows.
So they just like wrote their own plot line out of this gigantic story.
I don't watch all the CW shows.
So how did they, so how old is Superman in this timeline then?
How, if Batman's that old?
They have different Superman.
They have Brandon and Ralph come back with a terrible haircut
and he's in love with the smallville character or something like that.
It's very weird.
Very, very weird.
It's teenage drama.
It's like watching high school students perform something,
but I think high school students are better.
Why does this exist?
I haven't, I haven't even seen it.
I'm just picturing it.
Well, if Apple have coverage on it, eventually it's going to be wonderful.
It was, you know, it was good.
Crisis on infinite earths was good, but it will be perfect when it fits a woman.
I need to go.
I need to go spend time with the family before the new year is over
or the new year starts, I should say.
So it was lovely meeting you guys that I haven't met before.
Jay rags.
Mahler was nice to talk to y'all again.
Absolutely.
And I wish I would have never seen that monkey stuff.
But I guess my year was not complete without it.
So until next time, everyone.
Bye.
Bye.
I like that a couple of people were saying Jake Wayne.
He was Jake.
Skywalk.
Anyway, Batman passes the mantle to Jason Todd.
Lol.
Jason Todd is Red Hood.
Batman should pass the mantle to Terry McGinnis.
Batman Beyond.
Yeah, totally.
That makes sense.
Jason Todd needs to be the dark version of Nightwing or whatever.
Remember when Obadiah Stane stole Tony's heart in a completely non-gay way?
2019 equals slice and dice, 2220 equals snuggle struggle.
I think they meant 2020.
But yes, I'm having a good time listening to this.
I'm having a good time listening to this and making a few memes about toxic chuds.
Well, the more the merrier.
Toxic tugs.
Muesli and assortive massives.
Wait, what's HNY?
Honey.
Oh, it doesn't stand for something?
Like, I don't know.
Maybe.
High Neptune Yorkshire.
All right.
High Neptune Yorkshire.
Muesli and Assorted Massives.
Also, Happy New Year.
It means Happy New Year.
Nailed it.
And that was going to be my second guess.
Hello, hello.
The problem with Civil War was despite both sides having in-character motivations for their
choices, the movie set one side is the unambiguously correct.
No, it didn't.
Which was the unambiguously correct one?
You'll find that everybody chooses a different one.
This side was obviously the correct one.
It depends on principally if you think Cap is actually correct or not.
Versus if you think Iron Man is right in terms of his approach to appease a government
instead of fight against the world.
Because it's going to be pretty difficult to protect a world
or it's just you're a vigilante compared to being sanctioned.
So I don't think that it's as easy as saying,
yep, one of them was clearly unambiguously right.
It's like, I don't think that's how that works.
Complicated issue, maybe.
Okay, so.
Force always has been genetic.
That's the whole point.
Anyone could be a Jedi is retarded.
There's an element of randomness, but having a bloodline makes it more likely.
Broom Boy shits on the core of Star Wars.
What?
I don't agree with that.
No, I don't agree with that either.
No, I mean, you can have both.
Why not just keep both in it and not have a Dicop?
You say the prequels really make it seem like anyone could be a Jedi
with the amount of Jedi there are.
It's why.
Especially if they're not allowed to have kids.
Yeah.
So you have a universe like Star Wars that you want to keep making content for.
Do you really want to make it so that there's a limited amount of Jedi
or do you want to have Jedi spring up and then tell their stories?
Yeah.
Nope.
Sorry.
You got to be related to one of these families.
Don't count.
Oh, shit.
Where we lose again.
Does anyone think Ray is not a Mary Sue?
Yeah, there's a few people there.
Surprisingly, a lot of stupid people exist.
What would be the argument for that?
Anything?
Is there even a fraction of a legitimate argument?
No, you're sexist.
Oh.
Why do you hate women?
Uh, sexy stuff.
Luke and Anakin, we're really sues too.
Clarification.
The existence of Broom Boy is fine, though he's a bit too powerful for his age,
but the idea behind him that Ryan had is disgusting.
Disgusting?
He's a pedophile.
What?
I don't know why you have to go there, but I just don't.
Does there have to be a problem?
At his own age, all he does is he just summons a broom.
Yeah, what's wrong with that?
I didn't find a little broom towards him.
That's not unreasonable at all.
Yeah, I don't.
The problem you could train yourself to do.
I don't know.
Nice and simple.
The problem with Broom Boy was that they were playing with Star Wars toys.
And it was like a meta moment where you realize that this movie wasn't worth your time at all.
Then it's not his specific actions.
Broom Boy didn't really do anything.
He broomed.
I mean, I just thought it was just a bizarre scene to end the movie on.
Was just like, oh, we're coming back to the kids on Canobite.
Randomly, and I don't know, it didn't really fit with the previous scene at all.
Many of the problem the world face are direct and indirect results of the Avengers.
The Accords was the government's reaction, but was too limiting.
I mean, yes, it's inevitable in the real world that a group of
super powered people who run around saving the world are going to incur the wrath of
either one or several governments.
Go watch the boys.
In Civil War, the world is pissed that the Avengers face no consequences.
Not that they intervene, and the Avengers, they went home.
That was kind of what I was getting at.
I think it would just be worthwhile for everybody to give it a rewatch if they want to, you know.
Because a lot of people, and that's totally reasonable to be like, wait, did they say that?
Did that happen?
It's like, yeah, yeah, just give it a rewatch if you're interested.
That's all.
Because I think it's the best MCU movie.
Though, I don't know what everyone else's takes are typically on that.
Most people think that Winter Soldier is better.
I know a lot of people like Infinity War.
It was like, top tier.
Oh, yeah.
Guardians of the Galaxy usually scores pretty high, too.
Um, yeah.
That's funny because I believe a sniper did kill Wanda in the Ultimate Universe.
The bullet was tracking her DNA or something.
Hmm.
Gotta disagree that Civil War has consequences in the MCU.
Two super criminals are given pardons off screen.
Everything reverts to status quo so quick.
Two super criminals?
Who are we talking about?
I'm assuming Cap and maybe Bucky.
They're given pardons?
No, they don't get pardons.
They get sanctuary in Wakanda.
Yeah, that doesn't count.
Yeah, that's not hard at all.
No, it's not.
Well, are they talking about maybe pardons like, you know, in the events between
Infinity War and Endgame?
Because, yeah, like somewhere in that time jump, something happened that resulted in Cap
basically being hunted by the government.
If that's what they're talking about.
The fact that these people are no longer vigilantes after the events of Infinity War.
I'd be like, yeah, I think it's pretty reasonable to assume that the world was absolutely in chaos.
I'd also assume that because it's documented that Cap was like the last person trying to stop Thanos
and like, I assume there would be witnesses there to affirm that, that people would go,
okay, well, you know, we could maybe forgive all that stuff with the Sokovia
Accords from a couple of years ago.
Someone literally trying to- Someone in Chasin and Hawkeye and Ant-Man?
Two super criminals?
So they're both in prison.
They both get broken out by, oh, are they talking about the fact they were in house arrest?
Yeah, they got house arrest.
That's not a pardon.
Yeah, I was going to say, so their crimes, Ant-Man's crime was getting in the way
of the Iron Man sanctioned.
So the government sanctioned Iron Man team.
And that's the same for Hawkeye.
Their punishments were house arrest.
Because they have families.
I'm like, yeah, like that was after, I guess, a settlement or whatever, right?
Because originally they were in prison.
They would have managed to get out a little bit easier.
But their punishment is they can no longer be superheroes in any way, shape, or form.
And they have to stay in the house.
I don't consider that a pardon.
And I'm sorry, are they arguing that the issue is that these settlements happened off camera?
Like, do people really want to see courtroom bullshit in the MCU?
I thought that people complained about like, you know, the prequels starting out with fucking
trade federation shit that no one cared about.
I really enjoyed the Iron Man and Gary Shandling or whatever his name is.
Sequence in Iron Man 2.
Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't necessarily be against it.
But I don't think we need it for this, do we?
Not for this.
We got all the information we would need.
Resolution for the characters in the relative states that are implied from what is happening.
And I don't think you're going to capture Captain America and put them on trial and
all that stuff that doesn't really make any sense, does it?
He's harboring a known fugitive that was still a criminal even after house arrest.
Yeah, that doesn't make sense to me.
But it does make sense that they put what's it called Bucky and took him to another
nation that kind of covers it unless Wakanda is going to extradite him to America.
What are they going to do?
I think more the stretch is a bit with defending Civil War.
I think people reach a bit when criticizing Civil War.
Yeah, I just thought that the airport looked really lame.
That's all visuals.
Yeah, and I can I can follow that I can understand the argument.
I'm fine with that one.
Just that a lot of people take issue with the raw scene in the opening, like almost everybody.
And they're always like, wow, they get punished for saving the universe and stuff.
It's like, that's so not what's happening.
Happy New Year, you massive.
Thanks for all the laughs and good times.
You've made the past year and a bit with it and helped me through some rough times.
Hopefully the next year is even better.
Yes, good stuff.
Happy New Year.
By the time Rola reads this, Aiden will be asleep cuddling the little doggo.
Wags just wait until she wakes up.
Fist.
Ooh, smiley face.
Sweet.
When your argument is so bad that Susan silences you.
Oh, I guess this is what we would have got off stream.
Tony Stark is world famous.
Just sue him directly for destroying stuff instead of making him an agent of the state.
It's a bit more than just paying a fine.
Also, yes, suing Tony Stark.
I'm not saying it's impossible or anything.
It's just like, man, that's going to be really, really difficult to get to the heart of the issue.
Yeah, you could tell her issue with him was definitely a moral one rather than like a
legal troubles or damages sort of thing.
She wanted him to feel guilty.
She wanted him to for it to weigh on his conscience.
Not to say that that's what everybody would have a reaction to that with.
But he was taking steps to try and he was he was obviously riddled with guilt.
I don't know what is neat about the film.
Moving on from Age of Ultron and Iron Man 3.
Very strange series of events, but Civil War brought it home.
The thing that intrigued me about Iron Man in the first place was that he was a guy that invented
this technology and pretty much anybody could use it, but it was his responsibility.
And then he felt like there was a moral implication in the fact that he could
invent this technology and the de facto idea that other people were going to take it and
use it for evil purposes.
So now when he's in Civil War, he's thinking on a level that's kind of matured and he's
arced into a different position and Captain America is kind of arced into the opposite position
because he has new reasons to do so.
He wants to take care of Bucky because that's like the only thing that's in his past that
has any kind of semblance of familiarity that's still around.
So I don't know.
I just feel like it all fits, but visually it could be more impressive.
What could they possibly do to make it more realistic in the idea of geopolitics?
Iron Man would be a military contractor.
Well, we started with that.
He quit that business.
So it's not like he's going to become a contractor on behalf of the government,
but he still needs to find a solution because, again, he has that idea of responsibility for
all this technology that he's introduced, especially after Age of Ultron.
He feels directly responsible for stuff.
So there's, I don't know, I'm just saying, all of the character motivations line up with
the events of the film.
I think that if you were trying to nitpick for something, you would be able to have an
argument against it.
And he added, my point about the two super criminals was Ant-Man and Hawkeye,
and they're under house arrest, but carry on superhero stuff anyway.
Hawkeye does not until the events of Infinity War's ending, which, again, just throws everything
out of whack.
Like, it doesn't surprise me that he wouldn't stay on house arrest after his entire family
were killed.
And then Ant-Man, he gets broken out of it by, what's her name?
The Wasp.
I forget who, what is her name?
She got, no, she got dusted.
Yeah, no, but she broke him out in Ant-Man and the Wasp.
She gets dusted at the end of it.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Are you talking about Hope?
Yes, that's her name.
As in, I hope the next Ant-Man movie's better.
It won't be.
I hope the next Ant-Man movie is good.
Uh, suing people is expensive as fuck, and not everybody will be able to do it, since
suing across state lines is often very difficult.
Not feasible, mate.
That's a superchas.
I guess the superchas were arguing with each other as well.
Yay!
Just like, uh, Arrival.
Um...
Scarlet Witch was unhappy that Y'all would doubt in her powers and killed the stream.
I mean, I, I think she's powerful.
I just, uh, you can't, what was, what was the question that whether or not she could,
like, do some, like, crazy shit?
No, it was, what were her limits?
Yeah, I mean, if they had her, like, blow up everybody's heads in a room,
I wouldn't necessarily think that that's, um, unlike what we thought she could do.
Like, maybe.
That's, like, part of the problem.
Why can she do that?
Oh, well, didn't she get her power from the, uh, the Mind Stone?
She did.
I guess it's a core stone of the universe.
Doesn't surprise me that it gave her something pretty powerful.
All right, then.
Yeah, there you go.
Uh, that's, uh, like a, like a, that's it for the first, like, stream of 68.
So the next set are from, uh, part two of that.
And I was going to say, I, I, I might want to, uh, vote to put them in,
like, a, we'll read later pile because I'm, like, dying, partially, in terms of
Energon's and I don't want to give up half-
How much longer can we even, what are we looking at?
Oh, we can go for a while because this is a, this is a rebooted stream, right?
Oh yeah, that's right.
But if you need to, you need to take a break, then-
I was just going to say, it works for, in two ways,
because like, I'd rather be more energetic answering these for people.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
Instead of, like, off dying.
Yeah.
Um, we, me and Rags took out a chunk of the backlog last stream.
Now it's going to get replaced with all these ones, probably.
Yay!
But that's okay, uh, because I will get through them.
It's going to happen.
It's just, uh, they'll all be saved.
Every single thing that was said, it's going to be read out.
Um, but yeah, it's been fun.
The new year's 2020.
Uh, like I said, eFap will take a break.
Um, won't be too long.
And there'll still be, like, supplementary stuff coming out.
Obviously, there'll be two eFap streams.
This part one, part two coming out on Moolah.
And then, possibly, like, two eFap movies.
A bunch of the Batwoman stuff, or Infinity Infinite.
It's my rage video on the way.
Going to need probably a week.
I mean, it's coming along.
But, um, that's my estimate.
I think I said that last time, like, a couple days ago.
I said a week, uh, most, uh, fastest.
But still, that's probably around about it.
But it's coming.
It's going to be two hours, longest rage video ever.
Because it's like, that's like two minutes longer than the Captain Marvel one.
So that's how you know Rise of Skywalk was really good.
What have you got coming out, Rags?
Um, I'm going to be working on responses
and then Batwoman.
And I think I'm going to, I think I am going to do that Mandalorian video.
Please do.
Should we do, would you prefer to do the stream before that or after that?
Before.
Because we got to watch it.
So as we watch it, I'll like take notes and such as whatnot, therefore, as is.
Um, yeah.
So plenty of stuff on the way.
2020 is going to be fun.
Uh, I don't know.
Do you, do any of you four want to talk about things you got planned for 2020
while we were on the subject?
Yeah.
Do it.
Sure.
Um, well, first off, I took down my Shazam review so I could actually rework the script
a little bit, add in some funnier jokes that'll hopefully be a lot less dated,
as well as improving the quality of the footage of the, uh, of the actual movie I was using
now that I had Blu-ray writer.
And, uh, also just better editing.
So I'm working on that.
I'm also working on a rise of Skywalker review of my own.
Don't know when that'll come out.
It'll probably be like super fucking late as per usual for me, but it'll come.
So, and I've got plenty of other videos lined up that I've, uh, spoken to Mauler about.
So yeah.
And then of course there's my podcast, which is kind of like a rip off of eFap that covers
videos that eFap, um, doesn't cover.
So, uh, we're also going to cover some, uh, terrible pop culture takes done through articles
rather than videos, uh, in the future.
So yeah.
All right.
Hooray.
Who else has got stuff?
Not me.
I ain't doing shit.
You disappoint me.
Uh, I'm going to be releasing a Patrick Willems response video, uh, on the storytelling language
of Star Wars.
And then I have a short film that I'm releasing in spring.
So stay tuned if you're.
Wait, Barry.
Jay Longbone.
Oh, uh, well, as I stated before, I've got a Christmas movie reaction coming out and,
uh, react and a response video.
And a video, like a video on Finn and talking about how they could have character, how he
could have starred in the star in the whole Star Wars trilogy that, oh, oh my God.
So much sort of shit.
Agreed.
And like, and I'm going to do, of course I'll be back to doing Batwoman when it comes back
to air on the 19th.
So, and I got other stuff in between, but you know, I haven't really worked it out yet.
So get excited for the year of 2020.
The year of the good rat.
I will collect as many memes as I can from this stream.
We will check them all out on the next Efap, which will be 69.
Me and Rex are obviously going to have to discuss what we're doing for that one.
How do you pull off a good 69?
And, uh, yeah, thank you for all of the guests who stayed for as long as you did.
Very appreciative.
Very nice.
We hung in there.
Soldier done.
Did Efap proud.
Did a good job.
A good practice for the, for the 72 hour Efap.
Yep.
On its way.
Yep.
And, um, and thank you all for watching.
That's, that's about it for us to sign off.
Anything anyone wants to say before we, uh, we hit the hay?
No, I think it was a great stream.
Had some good guests, talked about some good stuff and brought in the new year
with, uh, another bit of happy fappen.
Oh, I like to say one thing.
Do it.
Koalas, koalas have chlamydia.
Oh, I thought you were going to say something else.
That's the one to say that.
Nailed it.
Yep.
Love everybody in the community.
See you on.
Adam's playing VR chat.
All right.
Well, goodbye, everyone.
Yeah, I was like, happy new year.
Goodbye now.
Happy new year, you massive soul.
Bye.
