I don't know, maybe eventually they'll find evidence for the six million.
Push of that envelope.
It's going to work out eventually.
What are you guys about to do to me?
I know we're going to make you evil.
You're going to destroy my reputation.
You understand that just by, just by associating with us.
Oh yeah, yeah.
I'm already dead to certain intimate circles.
Oh yeah, you don't have to speak to certain people.
Um, good, good, good.
You're the guy who hates fat people though.
That's what you've got going for you already.
Probably don't hate fat people.
I don't don't shoot.
If they just weren't so lazy and unmotivated, it wouldn't, it wouldn't
be as much of an issue.
Hey man, what about Jack Black?
He's like overweight, but he's jumping around all over the place.
He's always doing some crazy kick flips.
Oh, well, lazy.
Yeah.
He ain't kicking and jumping enough.
I mean, that's just, he's got to maintain that cuddly board though.
That's just, that's right.
So look how it worked.
Look how it turned out for, um, the other fat guy who is to died.
Well, there's a lot of fat guys who have died, dude.
That matters.
It don't, we've got a couple of his face, but I can't see, you
know, his name spelled out.
If I could, I would read it.
But yes, I should, I should obviously say like, welcome back rags, even
though you haven't really been gone for very long.
It feels like you're fucking gone forever when you don't have a signal.
True.
Um, it's only been like the last e-fat was Monday and I genuinely feel like it's
been ages kind of, it feels to me like it's been ages too.
Um, and, and welcoming, of course, cynical CJ, the dog who wears a suit.
That's very, uh, advanced of you rags.
It hasn't gone to that point when he has the glasses.
That's right.
I'm, I'm a nudist on principle, keeping it real.
I like to keep it classy.
Uh, I feel like I should, like, I don't know if people don't know for some
reason, I just assume everyone knows exactly what me and rags know.
CJ made a video about fat people and why he hates them.
No, it didn't because everyone agrees with it.
It was a movie celebrating relationships and he tore it down for no other reason
than he thinks people are ugly.
We had him on.
I couldn't resist.
So what is this?
Sophie Burgess is that her name?
So, uh, Sierra Burgess.
Oh, I never gonna remember.
Is that really her name?
It's not worth remembering.
Good Lord.
Well, yeah, the movie.
Sierra Burgess is a big loser.
You think it's a bit much to say that it's trying to justify catfishing?
Uh, no, not at all.
I think that's exactly what some audiences liked it.
Well, yeah, it was awful.
And you made a very, very efficient review of it that were it to shreds.
And well, we were actually planning on, uh, considering how, cause I remember
seeing your plot holes video before that one.
I can't, the blog was one came first, right?
Yes, it did.
Yeah, it was a couple of weeks earlier.
Yeah.
And it was from there.
I was like, this guy could be on.
And you went and you went and got famous and now it's just looks like we're selling
out, bringing on all kinds of dogs that are famous, you know, ruined it.
You could have been that cool dude that hated on Patrick Willems for no reason.
I'm the bread motherfucker.
Yeah.
No, I'm selling out.
Absolutely.
So yeah, you get a little taste of success and then that's what I'm
just overwhelming fun of fat people.
That's how it goes.
I make fun of, I make fun of fat people with terrible personalities as a huge
difference.
That's fucked up, dude.
I know fat people are proud sponsors at Sherry's berries.
I don't even, uh, yeah.
So I was going to say, there was a couple of comments.
I try and keep track of these things from the last one.
I, I was using a counter example for, um, I was talking about like hate and, uh, how
me rags and of course, uh, do you want to go buy seed jail or would you prefer a
different person name?
I'm, I'm, I'm fine.
CJ and Chris is fine.
Whatever you, I'd rather Chris.
Chris, you just sounds like, you know, from a kid show.
I'm kidding.
I'm kidding.
Oh, it's so, uh, yeah, it does.
Yeah.
And more or less sounds completely normal by comparison.
Oh, definitely.
Yeah.
Uh, so I was saying that we all get hate and, uh, what seems to legitimize hate is
when you actually do something.
And I said, for example, a Kelly Marie Tran leaving Ram and my point was just that
everyone gets this stuff, but it only becomes like a real thing.
If you actually react as long as you don't, then people just, I mean, even if rags left
Twitter out of reasons of being the hate, most people would just be like, yeah, well,
good riddance thing for us.
But, um, a lot of people were like, she didn't leave because of hate.
She left because of, uh, well,
I don't think we ever found out she released, um, oh, I got audio
cutting out.
I mean, yeah, that's probably, it's probably the bad parts.
God, one second.
I'm just going to lower my threshold.
I've had that problem a couple of times.
I've been streaming recently.
I mean, I don't want to like, I have to put my mouth right up to the microphone.
What's that?
No, it'll still, it'll still cut out.
It'll just be, I've got to be loud.
It would just be fucking weird when people shoot back here.
It's the noise gate, the noise gate.
I know it just that it's not set perfectly gate.
I, yes.
Oh my God.
How do I fix this?
This wasn't a problem before.
How did life itself turn some of the knobs up?
There's no, but oh, I love turning knobs.
Yeah, I love turning knobs up.
Hopefully that's a bit better.
Up and down and all around.
Yeah.
Explain this shit and keep my eye on the, uh, on the microphone thing on
OBS to see if there was a little bit, but I just got to stay louder.
So all my point was, was that people get hatred and sometimes when they do a thing,
that's when people like, see, they get hatred and a lot of people like Kelly
didn't even boo it on that reason, as we know.
Oh, okay.
I wasn't really talking about that anyway.
I don't think being hated on means you should leave social media.
That's just down to you.
That decision will have to deal with, uh, I mean, have you guys, I doubt it,
but have you guys ever had a
No, well, people are always so nice and gorgeous.
Yeah.
And they never take anything that I say out of context and they understand
thoroughly all the positions I actually hold.
Who the hell are you interacting with on the internet?
Every day I get called an asshole.
The furries.
Yeah.
The furries do like people like us.
The gay furries.
All right.
I have tuned the gay, gay, gay furries love me.
Yeah.
No, like he's fucking see every, every street is a different issue.
Like last time it was, it wasn't, it was like volumes, I think, but now it's
just like, I've turned the noise gate off.
So now you'll be able to hear breaths and background noises, but hopefully
it's clearer.
Just, is it better now?
That's the important part.
Yeah.
It's nothing to do with me.
Is it?
Oh God.
No, this is definitely on my end.
Well, it didn't happen last time and you weren't here.
Hey, my man's magic.
How do you know that?
Maybe it did.
Everyone's saying is better now.
Mueller is quiet for everyone but you.
Oh, what?
I don't know.
See, this is the thing I rely on the audience to tell me if
everything's terrible or not.
Um, but yes, uh, the last episode actually went a lot better than I expected.
Cause I thought since we were going after Joseph Anderson and the subjective
train was being pulled into the station, basically like more so than
horror film, horror movie video than he made.
That was shit.
Oh yeah.
You did see it.
Uh, yeah.
You dragged me into a car because you're like, I want you to watch this whole thing.
Crystal as well.
Yeah, me too.
Yeah.
And it was awful.
What do you guys, what do you guys think?
What are you guys thoughts on Joseph Anderson's scary video?
It's, it's scary how he thought it was a good idea to release that.
It's terrible.
He comes across as such a self-righteous prick.
I don't know what you're talking about.
We spent the whole EFAB talking about how great it was.
So, uh, well, you know what?
Fine.
I stand by what I say.
I, I saved that picture of his tweet that I can think of that people didn't like that
video was because they were, they're fucking jealous of my bravery.
Yeah.
They're jealous that I can play scary games and not get scared.
I mean, I'm sorry that some of us have actual human emotion.
Like what a prick.
He was getting loads of backlash and you could tell that, um, from the comment
section, that there was plenty of strong, strong arguments, but his, his conclusion
was, yeah, they're just, um, The jealous that I didn't get spooked and they did, or
they're upset or embarrassed.
I think the way to use was, it felt very rushed, which, yeah, whatever.
You know, like he, he wasn't, it sounds rushed, but it doesn't look rushed because
you have to go through all the trouble to get all those clips, to cut them up, to
put them in, to save them, to find them, to get them all in the timeline, to have
them swap around, it takes time to do all that shit.
And yet at the same time, what he said over, it felt really like it felt off
the cuff for something that was scripted.
I assume he scripts.
Yeah.
Um, very, very few people understood it.
I don't, I don't blame them, but, uh, that was just, he doesn't historically, I
mean, Fringy was pointing this out.
Every time you see like Joseph Anderson responding to criticism, it doesn't
seem to end well, like he's, he comes across as quite aggressive sometimes.
How do you lose your own comment section?
I don't know.
That's the thing.
He lost like 99% of them.
That's the weird part.
Like the, the, the like ratio was fine.
Even a lot of his own subscribers were commenting saying this is like the
worst video you've ever made.
I don't even guys notice that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There were, there, there, there was a couple of those, but like the, the, the
narrative would be, you just didn't understand it.
Um, but he's just like, it just stops or starts at the whole like, uh, resurrection
as a power, it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, you've already lost me.
What do you mean?
And it's like, he's already moving on.
And you're like, no, no, no, no, no, no, he says a lot of things that require a great
deal of qualification and he just doesn't.
Yeah.
And that's, that's the weird thing.
He usually does.
That's his whole thing.
He takes his time.
That's why we can't cover him on this.
Cause we can't cover three hour videos.
That's not going to happen.
Um, but like a month.
Yeah.
But he, uh, he released and I'm happy for him to continue to release 13, 14, 17.
I don't know what minute videos cause, uh, he can't cover an entire
genre in that time, but you know, yeah.
He, uh, uh, I actually, I don't know if people are aware, but, um, I invited him
onto eFap and, uh, he said no because I once, well, you see in my Soma series, I
decided I would have a bit of fun when I was responding to people for the first
time in a, in a very, uh, comprehensive environment.
And so I would have an argument and then I throw a little word on the end, be it
like idiot asshole, autistic came up.
And one of the ones that I used, actually, I can't even remember if I said this
exactly, but this is what Joseph Anderson said.
I said, he said that I called him a massive faggot and he will never
talk to me because of that.
Well, he should have thought about that before acting like a massive faggot.
Oh dear.
This is the thing.
Uh, worst things have been said on eFap by far.
And, uh, far better people have called me far worse things.
And yeah, like, uh, I had a couple of his fan base saying that I've, I've
offended an entire community and I was just like, let me check with rags to, to
make sure is your community offended rags.
Oh, I thought you, I thought you meant Joseph Anderson's
audience is like a community.
Oh, no, I'm talking about the faggots aren't a community.
They're talking about the, the homosexual community is very
upset with me.
Apparently I didn't get the memo.
It was just one or two guys, the gay people I know aren't faggots.
Well, I mean, that's the weird, the genuinely in my experience, most of the
gay people I know use that word regularly.
So it's just like, it's like how, you know, the blacks use the Negro word.
Oh, there you go.
It's a, it's a complicated set of rules online for what you're allowed
to and not allowed to say.
But, uh, yeah, he, he said that he won't speak to me because of that.
And it wasn't, it didn't seem to be the, his principle was you, you can't insult
somebody and get away with it was what he was trying to say to me.
Um, people insult me literally every time someone has insulted me, they've got away
with it, like what, what, what is not getting away with it?
Like I track them down and murder them and bury their body in a shallow grave
in a dumpster, you have to commit genocide with every new video.
I mean, I said that I was absolutely happy to, the door's always open, that
sort of thing, but it, uh, I doubt we'll see a Joseph Anderson on here,
unfortunately, but there was another, another YouTuber, I forget the name,
but, uh, he was, he was ripping into me along with Joseph Anderson.
And, uh, it was like a person by fan base who was like, Oh, I like that guy.
And I was like, Oh, he's probably just misunderstood.
Do you want, do you want to have a chat about this stuff?
And he was like, try and understand why Joseph shut the door on you
because I'm doing the same.
Oh yeah.
It was B mask.
That was it.
And it was just like, okay.
So I've, I have lost the privilege to speak to two YouTubers now, guys.
As, as links just said, I use no, no words and have been banished to the
bad kids corner, I will never be able to recover, but yes, that's, um, pretty
much caught up on, on anything that's remotely interesting.
And we decided because, well, actually, you know, this was, this was
always in our backlog, but you also wanted to sort of cover it, right?
Uh, Chris, was that, was that the, uh, your interest?
Well, I wasn't planning on covering it myself.
Um, but I just remember seeing this video and thinking it was really shit.
And, uh, I think since you didn't, you know, we were talking about it, um, you didn't
invite me onto e-fav and I said, Oh, what about this video?
I think I can't remember which one of us mentioned it first, but as soon as it was
mentioned, I was, I was down, I was froth, I was frothing at the mouth.
Well, this is the thing for me, cause, uh, we'll just do full disclosure.
We thought in prep for this, that we would check out the three Sam Raimi
Spider-Man films and all three of us have.
And is that, do we have to disclose that?
Like we've done something wrong.
Oh, no.
I'm, I'm actually setting up because it'll be a fun conversation.
I don't actually consider it to be, I mean, this is better that, uh,
You called it disclosure and I'm like, we, a guy, as the one that you know, we, we
Oh, yeah, we're not just, uh, we're not massive Sam Raimi Spider-Man fads.
You know, the film's back to front.
We actually watched it yesterday.
So all day before, sorry.
But, um, you know, just to get a catch up and I haven't seen them in a long time.
And, uh, first one, very solid.
Second one, really good.
Third one.
That's my review.
Um, but yeah, I, uh, I don't, I like, genuinely, if, if the second one came
out today, like in the MCU, I'll probably be like, oh yeah, this is one of the
better films in the MCU.
You should actually watch this one as opposed to skipping some of the other ones.
Um, yeah, I think it holds up well to buy today's standards in a way
that the first and third ones don't.
Um, and yeah, you know, this review, uh, I checked out some of the comments.
There's a lot of people saying that this is just supposed to be comedy.
Um, so we're dealing with a cinema sins thing here.
We'll have to figure out what points we're supposed to take seriously.
And what points are supposed to be jokes.
That'll be a, that'll be fun.
Um, all right, but we are dealing with worse than you remember.
And I have to admit, uh, the second one was better than I remember on rewatch.
So, yeah, it was, it was pretty good.
I mean, the first one was good, but the second one was quite good.
And then things got worse from there.
Yeah.
And there's probably a reason why this, the series ended with three.
Um, I wonder if maybe, maybe the video will focus a lot more on the third one or.
I'm not sure.
I guess we'll see.
Yeah.
I think it might be tough to convince us.
Maybe it can be done, but I think it will probably be pretty tough.
You guys got any, uh, I say, I say this as a joke.
I say, I say this as if it's some kind of like recommendation for bad blood, but
have you got any history with, with, with Cosmo at all or Cosmo?
Not at all.
No.
I've, I've seen a couple of his videos and I've not ever really been impressed.
Um, and I'm not even trying to like shit on him here.
I've literally just seen about five.
One of them, two of them are the last Jedi one and the force awakens one,
which were both very, um, I don't know.
Uh, I don't really get it.
I don't get it.
I don't get what, how much he doesn't really offer a lot of insight a lot of the
time he made a huge counter argument for, um, Mary Sue against, uh, ER of all
people and it, I remember watching it just being like, well, that was, uh, no
shit, but again, willing to give him a chance.
You know, I haven't found him offensively bad, just, just kind of just meh.
Um, you're welcome to come on to EFAP and defend your honor.
Absolutely.
We, an open invitation for anybody who's covered or wants to say something.
I doubt it'll happen these days with anybody who's, I don't know, of that
position, they seem to see it as sort of a, I shan't spend my time.
I may, I'm mainly basing this off Joseph Anderson.
He's very like, put his, put his nose up sort of attitude and he's, he's very,
he's very holier than thou.
So yeah, well, um, by the way, he behaves in my, what he said, he, he, he's, he's
fucking better than you.
Okay.
Well, cosmonaut, no, no, uh, just, oh yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I have no idea how cosmonaut would react, but, uh, yeah, you, you both ready.
Oh yes.
Let's see.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Sam Raimi's Spider-Man trilogy.
Worse than you remember.
Yep.
Here it goes.
Whenever I post a video, at least partially related to Spider-Man, I always
get vultures flying down, yelling at me about how homecoming isn't that good.
Spider-Man two is better.
Tom Holland can suck my dick.
So the other day I was like, okay, fine.
I haven't seen the Sam Raimi movies in a pretty long time.
Maybe I need to refresh my opinions a little bit.
Um, I, I mean, I'm other than, no, me and Rags have both seen Homecoming
and, uh, the three, right?
Oh, you've not.
I'm going to have this new scene both then.
I've not seen Homecoming.
I have no opinion on it.
Um, it is a movie in my opinion.
I'm, I'm genuinely not sure which I think is better.
I think Spider-Man two might be better.
Uh, Homecoming is, I thought Homecoming was really good though.
Um, I know a lot of people hate Homecoming.
So that'll, that, you know, make of that what you will.
But I don't think it's cut and dry that, uh, all Sam Raimi films are
worse than Homecoming.
I'm not sure if that's what he's saying, but we'll see.
Well, Mahler likes it.
So I think it's garbage.
So I went ahead, I re-watched the movies and holy shit.
These do not hold up.
Now I like to think I have a pretty good track right now.
Just end the video that I disagree.
I think, I think the first two hold up very well.
That's the interesting thing.
When you say hold up, it usually refers to a film that was good.
And is it still good with time put on it?
That's usually what people mean by hold up.
So it's not even fair to say, does Spider-Man three hold up?
Cause it didn't hold up when it came out, you know?
It's like, why would it hold up now?
Yeah, fair enough.
Um, but Spider-Man one and two, like, yeah, I'd say they absolutely hold up.
There's a campy element.
I don't know how much that means it doesn't hold up.
It's like a comic.
It's like a comic book.
Yeah, I would agree with that.
Yeah, that's the, I think that's the point though.
Yeah, it's very much, there's a lot of lines and quips that could be like speech
bubbles and panels, you know, that, that you would enjoy reading instead of
watching in a, in a movie form.
I think that's kind of what he was going for, but it does have that campy comic
book-y, I want this happy-go-lucky kind of superhero element to it.
There's a lot.
Yeah.
There's a lot of really happy, nice superhero moments.
And the things just work it out.
And you used an interesting term brags.
We were watching you said it felt a bit fairy tail-y at some points.
Um, I, there's anything I know.
It's fairy tales.
I mean, compared to like after the dark night and a lot of the MCU movies, it's
a lot, uh, grittier is the word people use, right?
Down to a bad thing.
It's not a bad thing.
It's just, uh, different choices.
Sometimes it's like, I want a superhero movie to be about like a, a superhero.
Runs around saving people and delivering pizzas.
He's, you know, yeah.
I mean, people, I don't think people want to be realistic.
Sorry.
No, go on.
It was though.
That's the thing that's, especially with the second one, it was that, that dual
life that he led was really well, um, really portrayed rather.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm not, I'm not necessarily talking about the personal struggle.
I'm talking more about the abilities and, uh, what the characters can do and
like how it ends and things anyway.
Sorry.
Hold up.
Now I like to think I have a pretty good track record when it comes to my opinions.
All right.
I have a decent following of naive 11 year olds, eccentric European weaboos
and depressed alcoholic college students that seem to like, and listen to my
opinions, but that's supposed to mean
self deprecation, obviously.
But it's a combo.
Cause it was like, I think my opinions are pretty solid.
I go crazy people following me, but Hey, I don't know.
Like, I guess just a joke.
I don't know.
Just seemed a bit weird.
Strange.
I'm aware that I'm kind of pushing it this time.
I'm just saying, I think the Sam Raimi Spider-Man movies aren't as good as you
remember now, I still love these movies.
All three of them to be exact.
Yeah.
You heard that right.
But it annoys me that people look at the first two as some sort of superhero
holy grail when they're not like really that good anymore.
I like the language is so, uh, it's like, what do you mean?
Not that you say they're good, but not that good.
They're great.
Okay.
I don't know.
Um, what do you, uh, what do you think about the voice by the way?
Um, you know, I would never accuse someone for putting on a voice, but I think that
I could do the thing that he's doing.
Uh, you know, and you like do that with your voice.
No, I don't know what you mean.
Sounds like mine.
That was a poor impression because I'd need a bit more time to work on it, but
it like everyone could do that.
Right.
You know, the, when you do that, I don't know what it's called.
Like, how do you want me to feel?
It's like, it's like, you're trying to give an impression of something or like,
I don't know how do you want us to, I don't know.
Someone just said he's black.
That's not, that's not something all black people do.
Oh, is that him in the last clip?
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Yeah.
That is him, but it's, um, Oh, well in that case, I hate his video.
Oh, is it croaking?
Is that what it's called?
That is his real voice.
Well, like I said, um, I have no reason to think that it's not his real voice.
I just find it interesting because it's something that everyone
can do, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
Personally, I'm not a fan of his voice, but that's a, that's a personal thing.
It's just a minor point rail when they're not like really that good anymore.
So let's look at all three of these movies and see why they really don't
hold up and are kind of a little bit, just a little bit of a mess.
And yeah, I know everybody says Spider-Man three is the worst one.
But if you ask me, all three of these movies are basically the same
and I'll elaborate more on that later.
Really?
Wow.
I couldn't disagree more.
I disagree vehemently with that.
The first two, it's like the third one was made by a completely different person
with a completely different, I mean, it's just, it's out in left
field compared to the first two.
I was going to say, it's the first two are so, uh, structured and focused.
The third one is just a mass, like it's all over the place.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
To say that they're, you know, there's no difference in terms of
quality is, is just ridiculous.
Hmm.
But, well, let's hear the argument at least.
God, but for now let's start at the beginning.
Let's start with Spider-Man one.
Fair enough.
Start at the beginning.
How original first thing we're greeted with is a corny narration by Peter
Parker, played by good old American sweetheart, Tobey Maguire.
And this is the one thing that I hate the most about the Spider-Man trilogy.
I hate Tobey Maguire.
Ever since I was a kid, I never really saw him as my definitive Peter Parker.
He's kind of me.
I don't think anyone did until the movie.
I mean, it's not what you, that's just, you know, I hate to say it was like,
that's your opinion, man.
But isn't he meant to be meek and wimpy at least at the start?
Certainly.
I mean, he's, yeah.
And then he evolves.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe he'll say something a bit more.
Like, I can't respond to any of that.
He's like, if you don't see him as Spider-Man, then you don't see him as Spider-Man.
I don't know.
Yeah, I like him as Spider-Man.
I like him as Spider-Man too.
I prefer Tom Holland because I just, I don't know, Tom Holland nails it for me,
but I still don't really, I'd have to hear an argument for why he's not a good
Spider-Man, that's all I'm looking for.
Tobey Maguire.
Ever since I was a kid, I never really saw him as my definitive Peter Parker.
He's kind of meek and wimpy and that's supposed to be Peter's personality at
first, but he never really gets over it.
Even when he's Spider-Man, I still want to kick his ass because he's a huge dork.
It's you who's out, Gobby.
Out of your mind.
And some, is that all we got?
I don't know.
Like, again, a little cheesy.
Yeah.
Like he's a bit dorky, but again, I thought that was matches the, that
matches the tone of that whole film.
As for, he did say it doesn't really grow.
Like, what would you guys cite as evidence that he's sort of, I think,
I think more in the second movie.
I think he certainly got a lot of confidence by the end of the first
film compared to the beginning.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
He holds himself much stronger.
He has a lot more confidence.
Like I said, the second film, he's definitely knocked down a peg in terms
of the opening is like all about him being, you know, down in his luck.
His life sucks and Spider-Man keeps getting in the way of that too.
But like the third film, again, cause we're not saying we discount the third film.
We have to count the third film.
He's, he's almost egocentric, like he's super confident.
Yeah.
He's over.
Yeah.
He's, he's letting it get to him.
Yeah.
So I'd be like, he's clearly his character goes through a bunch of changes.
I mean, the second one is very much about, yeah, I don't really know where
that argument's coming from, but that was a weird one.
That's because he's a huge door.
It's you who's out copy out of your mind.
And sometimes Toby's performance is just really bad.
There are some actors doing a really good job in these movies.
So you really notice when somebody isn't doing that great of a job.
Who am I?
You sure you want to know?
Yeah.
Also at the mere six minute mark, we are showing the greatest character in the
entire trilogy, Willem Dafoe as Norman Osborn.
I'll get more into him later though.
For now, let's look at how Harry introduced.
Yeah, I think he's good.
Um, yeah.
And this is, so that's a bit confusing.
Uh, there was, there was a comment, sorry.
There was a comment that I saw that I was like, Oh, we'll have to keep that in mind.
They said that this video is specifically to highlight the bad.
So he's not going to talk about the goods, but I don't know.
It seems like he's, he's throwing some good things here and there.
Maybe it's to seem a little bit more balanced.
I don't know.
But like, it makes me wonder, is he going to talk about all the good or just the
little random bits that become relevant?
I don't know.
Um, let's, let's continue.
This is his dad.
Peter may introduce my father Norman Osborn.
Why would you introduce your dad by his full name?
That's kind of weird.
Is it?
I mean, isn't the, isn't the, isn't sorry.
Cause we did watch recently, they get out of the, when they're in the car, doesn't
you say like, he doesn't even want to be here in that car and he doesn't want to
let people know or, or, or present himself as like a rich person.
Um, so the, and, and the dads and him have a bad relationship.
Uh, it's even, it's even banked on in the third, uh, film where he says something
like, um, he's like, your dad never loved you.
Your dad thought you were an embarrassment.
Um, what I'm getting at is he's probably referring to his father as his full name
because of the disconnect professional.
Yeah.
It's more professional, uh, professional, like it's a business sort of, uh, him
and his dad have a bad relationship.
I'm pretty sure the film's made that a thing.
It's not just, uh, yeah, I don't, I don't think that's unusual at all.
And also it establishes it for Peter because he's so interested in science.
He would know, I was caught probably.
So he would, he would know who the head of that organ, the head of that company
was just makes it, it's just quicker.
You know, and it's the one just point out it's helpful for the audience too.
It's just like Norman Osborn.
Yeah.
It's just expositions.
Yeah.
It's like Harry isn't going, this is my father.
This is the head of the comp, this head of the company, Norman Osborn.
But whatever also look at, he said whatever at the end.
He didn't mean it.
Oh, that's kind of weird, but whatever.
Also look at these high school students.
Now I know a lot of movies have people who aren't really playing their age, but
this is kind of ridiculous.
You see this guy, that's supposed to be their teacher.
He's younger than they are.
Alex Jones is younger than Will Wheaton.
Oh, wow.
Hang on.
I'm curious, Spider-Man.
This is going to be tough to find.
Cause that guy's like barely in any of the film.
He's just like teacher person.
Wait, who's meant to be the teacher?
Is it the, as in the black guy?
Yeah.
The black guy's teacher and the guy in the black jacket is, uh, that's
flash, isn't it?
So he's like, he doesn't, doesn't look that young.
Flash Thompson.
When I was watching it, I didn't.
Oh man.
How am I going to find this guy?
Oh, literally he's credited as teacher.
Found you.
All right.
I'm just going to find flash.
Uh, cause I'm curious if, if they are actually, which one's older.
So, oh geez.
He doesn't have a birthday.
I'm sorry.
This like, I'm not trying to say this guy.
Probably doesn't get a lot of born.
Oh, so he's 44 years old and flash is 20, 24 plus 18, 38, 30, 42.
Is that right?
Sorry.
I'm, I'm, yeah, 42.
So yeah, the teacher is older.
Yeah.
He's two years older.
Well, I'd still say that the teacher does look older, even if, even if
he wouldn't, even if he's not older.
I was going to say, I actually thought the teacher did look older.
I think the teacher looked older as well.
Cause when I was watching this scene, just the other day with Mahler, when
we rewatched these films and preparation for this video, and that's the
kind of quality content you can expect from channels like these is that
he, he seemed to fit the bill to me.
And I've seen in chat and I do, I do agree.
Uh, the students are a little bit older than they should be.
Like, yes, the students, I would have more.
Yeah.
The students look older than, but I mean,
but they don't, but they don't look, but they don't look older than Peter.
No.
Yeah.
It's, it's all, it's all, it's almost relative.
It's like, they're all the same age.
So you can sort of, everyone in New York is retarded.
Someone said they're actors.
It's like, I mean, yeah, to get over.
I mean, so this is another element.
People being like, nitpick.
It's like, I mean, uh, this is probably close to what I would call a nitpick.
If he's trying to argue that this is a big problem, but I don't, I don't
show that he is, I think he's just casually mentioning it because the
teacher, which he pointed out, he had one line for, didn't he?
Just this, this, I think it's two lines, two lines.
Yeah, but this is the, but hey, you know, whatever.
Post the video teacher, he's younger than they are.
I got to say though, I love how every line this man says is whispered and
sounds very aggressive and threatening.
Yeah.
Because they're trying to be quiet.
I was going to say, and he's telling them off.
So of course he's going to be quiet and harsh.
What sort of criticism is that?
The teacher is whispering when he's telling them to be quiet.
I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
That's why when you tell somebody to be quiet in a library, you don't say,
Hey, shut up.
You say, just library, please lower it.
Please shut the fuck up.
Please shut your mouth before I rip your spleen out through your throat.
Do you know that this is the largest electron microscope on the Eastern seaboard?
So anyway, Peter gets bitten by some brown recluse and then he dies
peacefully in his sleep.
So in the next scene, we get the beginnings of Norman Osborne's
super villain origin story.
And I got to say, I do like the pacing in this movie for the most part.
Things go along in a fairly well-balanced way.
You see the beginning of Peter's origin.
And then right after you see the beginning of the villain's origin,
it just keeps going back and forth.
Yeah.
Something I did feel about the structure of the first film was it was, it was
almost what I would call classic.
It was like very straightforward.
Bad guy, part a bad, uh, no, good guy, part a good, bad guy, part a good guy,
part B, bad guy, part B.
And it just kept going like that.
It's, it's, it doesn't feel like they wasted time.
And a lot of films now feel like they're wasting time.
Yeah.
Like you just have random, random scenes that are thrown in for some reason.
Everything happens when it should happen.
I was going to say, I'm not saying that, uh, canto by is an example of it going wrong.
I'm just saying that randomly.
That's just a random example.
I just threw out there.
Hey, that was in that, uh, star wars movie that they say is really bad.
Star what?
Sorry, star, star, star jars.
Oh, I've not seen that one.
Sorry.
Jar, jar wars, the word, the word canto bite just came to mind.
I have no idea what it even references.
Look, I'm, I'm saying is that it puts the can't, and this movie
bites in star wars canto bite scene.
See now that made sense to me.
If any, if it doesn't make sense to anyone else, they're just not listening properly.
Like how a canto bite can bite me.
Excellent.
Right.
It seems mad that they're taking the project back to form.
Oh, shit.
Sorry.
I think I skipped over.
Yeah, let's go back.
Once the way you see the beginning of the origin just keeps going back
and forth like this, however, his motivations aren't really that clear
before he turns into a crazy monster person.
He seems mad that they're taking the project back to formula.
I'm a dumb, dumb internet movie boy.
So I don't know what that means, but it seems like he needs to get his little
science project done really quickly.
I mean, so my, my, my take on that is that he's a science person.
He's got funding for his operation of trying to create a weapon for the
military as do his competitors.
He's not showing results and he's saying, yeah, we're totally ready for human
testing, 100%, which is a, which is a good piece of progress.
They're like, okay.
And then his scientist friend says back to formula, which I assume means we're
going back to before even testing on animals.
We're going back to fixing it at the core back to yeah.
Working on the original formula.
Yeah, which is a huge setback when Norman lies about how the formula is ready for
human testing when it isn't actually, he's willing to put things.
He's willing to do dangerous things or unethical things to further his own
goals and to go back to formula means, you know, they say you have two weeks.
It's like, they go back to formulas in a way.
They're going to be able to, uh, make it in time.
So yeah, his motivation is he doesn't want to lose all his
co-op, he doesn't want to lose funding.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then later on, you know, you know how much I sacrificed and all that stuff.
And it's alluded to his relationship with Harry is so bad because he spends
so much time with the company.
Like he puts the company before everything else in his life.
Yeah.
Like I, you know, I'm not trying to be a dick.
It just seems this is very straightforward in the film, but he did say that he's not
a science person.
He missed this.
So, okay.
I'm not either, but I got it as a, as a 12 year old, when I saw it in cinemas,
I understood it, I don't, I don't understand what's not.
I remember to get grade English class.
They was like, these are what context clues are.
I don't, that's your opinion, but I can, it is my opinion.
You don't know how much I sacrificed.
It's the right opinion.
Ah, wait, I see what you did there.
I don't know what that means, but it seems like he needs.
Oh, you're interrupting him.
Right?
Just fuck.
Yeah.
Fuck this guy to formula.
I'm a dumb, dumb internet movie boy.
So I don't know what that means, but it seems like he needs to get his little
science project done really quickly or the army men won't be very happy with him.
Next, we see the first scene of what I'm going to.
Yeah, that's it.
He's got it.
Yeah, that's exactly it.
So why didn't you get it?
Why was that even a, I don't understand.
Yeah, I think maybe, I don't know.
Again, it's, people have been saying that this whole thing is for funnies.
So I guess that was, I think there's a serious criticism of his that's, and
that's wearing the coat of humor.
Well, it's kind of mixed.
It's kind of mixed in, isn't it?
Like some of these points are quite obviously jokes.
We'll have to, what we're going to do, we're going to have to take it seriously
and then say, but if it's a joke, nevermind.
That's how we'll have to do this whole thing.
Mmm, that'll be fun, won't it?
Typically, or the army men won't be very happy with him.
Next, we see the first scene of what I'm going to call corny Sam Raimi shit.
Why?
I mean, well, in the defense of the movie, I don't know if you guys can see the skull
right now, I pulled it to like right on it, apparently, but, um, uh, he's, I'm
assuming hallucinating is the point of that.
He's having a bad dream, isn't he?
Yeah.
Cause he's, he's dealing with the transformation.
So I, wait, no, he's not, he's not asleep.
Is he asleep at that point?
I can't remember.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, I literally, I would just say that I'm assuming he's just losing a shit
and having all those lines from the person from that, uh, spider place is running
through him, but I mean, uh, corny cat or Sam Raimi shit, I just be like, uh,
wait, corny Sam Raimi.
Well, this is, I just, that's fine.
I'm I'll, I'll just be like, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, I, the tone of the film is pretty consistent with itself.
It is a superhero serial movie.
That's very happy go lucky, almost fairy tale, like, um, kind of, um, what would be
a way to say it, not, um, a bouncy, I guess it's just fun.
Yeah.
It's fun.
It's, it's a bit silly.
I mean, I think that's where I'm standing right now, but like, if I was to say, I
completely agree with him, I was like, is this, is this detrimental or is this just
fine?
I'm assuming it's kind of fine.
Like it's who cares, right?
Like it's a couple of seconds and I think it works, but you know, cause he just said
corny.
So I'm just like, yeah, sure.
Does corny mean bad?
It kind of matches the transformation of, you know, our Osborne with the blue,
blue, blue, blue, and the green gas and the, I'm evil.
Yeah.
How much I sacrificed are their skulls.
It looks like I added those in post, but that's for real.
This is fucking hilarious.
And it only gets better from here.
The next scene is even funnier.
Norman goes ahead and decides he's going to be the human test subject.
And this fucking doormat just goes along with it.
Oh, I've, uh, it doesn't, it's not like he goes along with it.
You know, he's told to buy his boss.
Yeah.
I mean, he's definitely against it.
Yeah.
He keeps saying not to do it.
Yes, but I mean, the boss has taken all the risk and he doesn't, you know, he
doesn't want his boss to get hurt, but the boss is insistent.
So he goes along with it.
He voices his concerns.
Yeah.
And in terms of like legal, like, I don't know if I have no idea if there's any
reason why he wouldn't be able to test this on us, but maybe it's within his
rights.
I have no idea like, uh, if the guy could have, there might be some technicality
that the stock holders and the members of the board control the intellectual
property and the usage of the formula itself, perhaps, but I don't know.
That might be thinking a little too deep into it.
When you're in a situation like that, if you have the, uh, person who is your
superior telling you to do something for most people, it is hard to resist.
So, I mean, of course, yeah, he does put up a, he's like, don't do it.
I can't give you the actual dialogues.
I can't remember, but I'm pretty sure he's like, don't either.
He goes, he goes through all the tests.
He makes sure all the procedures followed.
I mean, yeah, he's not like, Oh, okay.
Let's just, let's do it.
Yeah.
You know,
goes ahead and decides he's going to be the human test subject.
And this fucking doormat just goes along with it.
Well, he doesn't just go along.
I guess that's the issue.
Yeah.
And it's another example of Norman putting the company and his
success ahead of his health.
Yeah.
His wellbeing.
You have the broken glass asshole.
Also, I think this little part is hilarious.
Well, either way, the experiment goes horribly wrong and he dies.
This is a comedy movie.
I don't care what any, yeah.
Is that a problem?
I mean, I'm not sure how to react.
Like that, that scene, yeah, it's, um, it's dramatic and kind of funny,
which again, Sam Raimi practically perfected that genre with, uh,
dramatic, funny, kind of like a crazy person.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I did.
And he's kind of weird cause he's like, he's only referencing what I think you
could call the parts that you could interpret as comedy.
I mean, you know, what about all the dramatic bits?
I don't know.
I guess again, cause it's supposed to be like, this is why it's
worse than your members.
Like I remembered all these bits.
You guys.
I didn't forget.
Hmm.
But he tells me now you guys know the rest.
I won't nitpick the rest of this first act because that would be way too easy.
Like I could mention how Peter's just going to walk to school, but then the
bus just appears and he's like, Oh no, wait, I'm supposed to run after the book.
Sorry.
Hang on.
And I'll play the point again.
I just thought it was funny that he was like, I could nitpick it, but I won't.
You know, I could, I could say stuff like this.
Do you remember the whole, um, I can't remember what iDubbbz called it, but it's
when, it's when Leafy would say like, I could say that this person's ugly and
fat, but I won't.
Yeah.
But how is that?
What is there to nitpick about that?
Well, it was established earlier in the film that he misses the bus a lot and
he was clearly distracted in that scene.
Well, let me hear it again.
I want to make sure, cause I'm pretty sure he's actually just wrong on this.
I won't nitpick the rest of this first act because that would be way too easy.
Like I can mention how Peter's just going to walk to school, but then the
bus just appears and he's like, Oh no, wait, I'm supposed to run after the bus.
Like what the fuck?
You weren't even going to the bus stop.
It's your own fault.
If you miss it now and I'm most definitely okay.
So he again, so recently this is why I'm pretty sure this is the case, but he
always walks to the bus stop and then gets on the bus and he was on time this
time, but he stopped a couple of meters back cause he's preparing to try and you
know, caught MJ and she's, she gets picked up by her friends instead of the bus.
And so while he's talking to himself about how he was going to actually
approach it, the bus shows up because he's not at the bus stop.
It doesn't stop for him.
Yeah.
Isn't that how it works?
And you are right.
They said, they set up at the beginning that he misses the bus a lot.
So they don't, it's almost like the driver doesn't particularly care about
pizza is what I got as a impression.
I mean, it seems pretty reasonable to me.
So I just don't understand why he's even mentioning that as a nitpick.
And if someone was like, why are you nitpicking this?
I'd be like, but he brought this up.
Like, uh, anyway, Peter's just going to walk to school, but then the bus just
appears and he's like, Oh no, sorry.
I'll try and pause it right there, but there was like a sign.
Let me just see what it says.
Because that would be way too easy.
Like I can mention how Peter's just going to walk to school.
Uh, is that no parking?
Yeah.
Which does that make sense?
Considering it's a bus stop, the sign really means you can't pee here.
I'm just curious if that's supposed to signify that this is where a
bus would stop or something.
I don't know.
It might be further up the road.
I don't know.
But then the bus just appears and he's like, Oh no, wait, I'm
supposed to run after the bus.
Like what the fuck?
You weren't even going to the bus stop.
It's your own fault.
If you miss it now, and I'm most definitely not going to mention
this unfortunately, aged joke.
That's a cute outfit.
Did your husband give it to you?
What if you did make it for him?
Would that be so bad?
No, I was spider man.
You're pretty homophobic.
The one thing that, uh, so question.
What racist jokes was that a serious criticism or was that a joke?
Yeah, I don't get it.
I, you can tell jokes about something without it being what you actually think.
That's how I'm talking about, I'm talking about Cosmonaut now.
Is he, is that an actual criticism of the film that this is a dated
joke and it's inappropriate, or is he saying this just to make a joke?
I don't know.
What's your take on that guys?
I don't know.
It's like he's straddling the line.
So I can't tell with this guy.
I mean, he's, he's wrong in terms of the statement that he makes.
Yeah.
Just a joke then.
Oh, well, you know.
Yeah.
So if, if he's serious, assuming he's serious, uh, my response would be, I think
if, if, if, if this wrestler said, uh, yeah, he did make it full B spider would've
been like, yeah, okay.
Because the idea is that he's trying to upset this man.
And so he chooses to imply he's gay.
Nice.
Like the idea is the Spider-Man is like, this guy would be upset if I was to
refer to him as gay.
I don't think Spider-Man has any problem with gay people.
I don't think that's, and as someone who's had their tongue on a man's asshole,
I'll tell you, I'm not offended by it.
So, okay.
There you go.
Rags is not offended.
It gets the pass from me so we can proceed.
Yeah.
Maybe it is a good thing I'm along.
If, if this is just a joke, then yeah, fair enough.
I guess.
Listen to this unfortunately aged joke.
That's a cute outfit.
Did your husband give it to you?
Also, I think you'd see this joke in any, any.
Well, he is, well, remember he said that these films haven't aged well.
I feel like he is using that as a point to demonstrate why, even though he's,
he's using it as a joke, but he is using it to back up his face.
Decipher of his criticism.
Yeah, I know.
Right.
I think it's legitimate, but he's just dressing it up as a joke.
Yeah.
And there's a couple of people in chat saying like, yeah, Spider-Man was
doing it to piss him off, Spider-Man.
Yeah.
It's not about Spider-Man being homophobic or the joke being homophobic.
But, um, people are saying as well that he's not an SJW, uh, cosmonaut.
So he might just, this is, this is, I love this.
So you can break it down so many ways.
It's like, is he referencing how people would be offended by this?
But he's, he's obviously not.
Is that, I don't know.
I don't know.
We'll just have to move on.
Cause I really don't know.
It's a joke.
It's a joke in the film.
Absolutely.
It shouldn't be taken seriously.
But he did, he did acknowledge that.
He said it was a badly aged joke, I guess.
What if he did make it for him?
Would that be so bad?
Wow, Spider-Man, you're pretty homophobic.
The one thing that does bug me is the pivotal scene where uncle Ben gives his
iconic speech, because he's actually chastising Peter Parker for fighting
Flash Thompson in a previous scene, except Peter was fighting in self-defense.
No, he said he was going too far.
Yeah, no, sorry.
No, just no.
So this, the point is all, all
Ben knows is that Peter got into a fight and he dominated the, the opposition.
Um, and so he says, you've clearly changed.
He knows he's been exercising in his room.
That's something that happens in the previous scene.
I think he says to aunt May that he's, he's just exercising, leave
me alone, sort of thing.
Um, so Ben's concern is that Peter is getting stronger and he's using it to
beat people up, even in self-defense.
And he's saying like the idea that you should know when to use your strength.
That's the responsibility you have.
If you have strength.
He's only, if you remember, he clarifies, he's like, um, you saying I should run
away and then he's like, no, no, no, no, no, don't run away.
And he even says that Flash guy probably deserved it.
Probably not coming.
Yeah.
Doesn't, doesn't Peter say it was self-defense and uncle Ben goes, yeah,
I know, I think he's just, yeah, kind of just, and he said, you'll be careful.
And you could tell that flash is a bad guy because he has random chains on it.
Yeah.
So the point, the point is not that he doesn't want him to fight back in self-defense.
The point is he doesn't want to want to just slam a guy across a corridor.
Yeah.
Don't abuse that new found going to be the power.
Yeah.
And obviously he was just referencing him getting stronger, but for the audience,
it was like, Oh, he's, it's about being Spider-Man.
Yeah.
Uncle Ben's like, Oh, well you shouldn't have done that just because you can beat
him up, doesn't mean you should.
But that's true.
Just because you should beat him up doesn't mean you should.
It's true.
Yeah, true.
That's true.
That's good advice.
I don't have a problem with that.
Um, even, even in the context of someone trying to attack you first, like they do
clarify that and this scene, that's kind of a part of it.
The scene ends badly.
Peter doesn't take the advice.
Well, he finds it insulting, but it's, it's very, very good advice and it's
misunderstood because I guess you could say he's delivered clunkily.
I thought it was fine.
I just thought that Peter jumped the gun with a response and you can tell he feels
that way immediately after he feels guilty.
Shouldn't have done that just because you can beat him up doesn't mean you should.
So what does Peter do with this advice?
Who deserves the rest of life beating people up the context.
Just don't make no sense.
What?
No, he didn't know.
It's not like Ben said, don't beat people up.
He said it's about figuring out when it's when it's right to do it.
Exactly.
The people that Spider-Man went after deserve to get, you know, punched in
stop because remember Spider-Man do remember even at Macy's Spider-Man
doesn't kill anybody.
Yeah.
There's, he doesn't, it's always defense apart from the third film, but that's
about him losing his, his morals a bit.
Yeah.
It's very confused by this bit because this is quite a critical moment in the
film and criticizing it means this must be a significant criticism.
If that is a joke, he's joking about something that is not true.
Like he's just outright stating something that is not true for the sake of making
a joke and that's just not a joke.
I don't remember him saying, never use your power.
I don't remember him saying, don't be people up ever.
He just says, uh, you're responsible for your power.
Be careful.
That's, that's it.
That's it.
It's very, it's a very good message as well.
There's a reason why this is iconic.
He spends the rest of his life beating people up.
The context just don't make no sense.
However, on an unrelated note, I think it's time to bring up.
Yeah.
I don't really get his point there.
You're just wrong.
You're just wrong.
No sense.
However, on an unrelated note, I think it's time to bring up something that I love
about these movies and that's the extras.
I'm serious.
Look in the background of any shot and just find a random person.
You'll get a whole new level of entertainment out of these movies.
In this movie, you'll see background characters that don't give a shit.
People who have no idea where they are.
Even main characters have a chance of devolving into idol.
That wasn't an idol sim.
He, he was watching his father congratulate Peter more than he
congratulated his own son.
And so he walked away defeated and dejected.
I mean, yeah, I was going to say, I need to see that scene again, but I'm pretty
sure that is him being sad because his dad appreciates Peter more than him.
It's not the best example of acting, but the extras are funny.
And yeah, I don't know if that's a criticism anyway.
He said that he really likes it.
I don't know if this is very, I have to admit, I'm a little bit confused in this
delivery of this video.
I get why people are saying it's just supposed to be funny because it's pretty
hard to understand when it's trying to be critical.
I feel like I feel like in this case, he's poking fun at the film for
something that can be poked fun at.
Yeah.
So I think it's up until this point.
Yeah, absolutely.
But the last example, not so much.
Even main characters have a chance of devolving into idol sims when
they're not the focus of the scene.
I don't really have a problem with that, by the way, like his acting there.
It was good enough, wasn't it?
He looks sad.
He looks down and turns away.
Yeah, I got the message.
I think everyone who else, I think he did fine.
He conveyed the point of what he conveyed the point of what that said.
The point of the scene was his reaction there.
Yeah.
What he did.
That was the point of the scene.
It is, it is really bizarre.
So for those of you who aren't aware by now, this movie has a certain flow to it.
We see Peter do stuff and then we see Norman do stuff.
And then Peter and Norman meet up again.
And the whole thing goes on like that until the movie's over.
And this works mostly because, like I said, Norman Osborn is fucking hilarious.
Maybe it's just me, but every scene with him makes me laugh.
He could be doing something completely normal and it's still hilarious to me.
It's like Willem Dafoe is an alien pretending to be a human.
Oh, he's a crazy villain in the superhero movie.
That's the point.
I was going to say, I don't disagree.
Is this a criticism?
Yeah, I don't disagree.
I think he said he likes this stuff.
I don't know.
Great.
Yeah, man.
I like it.
I think he plays the part really well when he does that.
Because it's like that creepy, funny sort of.
I well, again, I think he's he's saying this is a good thing.
I think he.
Yeah.
Is he is he using this as a reason to to say why the films are worse?
I don't know.
I don't know.
This is impossible.
Maybe we need maybe we need to watch a bit more.
But any other science award, that's terrific.
Yeah.
I am now going to share some of my favorite moments from Norman Osborn in this movie.
I like the reaction he has when Harry offers Peter to work for him.
He looks so happy.
Look at his face.
I don't even need to describe this part.
It kind of speaks for itself.
I love how his whole plan to recruit Spider-Man is to drug him, kidnap him, tie
him up and have a dad talk with him on a rooftop about how New Yorkers are dicks
and they're not worth saving.
Right.
I like how he dresses up as an old movie.
They are dicks.
I don't know if Spider-Man is a bad person.
Was that a criticism though?
I don't know.
Is he saying like as in he actually likes it or like as in sarcastic?
Yeah.
Like so bad.
It's good.
Is that what he's saying?
I can't tell.
I have no idea.
Um, I think in the context of this video, he seems to be using it as a criticism.
Well, yeah.
Worse than you remember.
Yeah.
I don't know.
He's complaining about a villain being over the top and egotistical.
And I guess it is a little bit cliched, but it's, that was, that was how it was back
then, you know, I, I, I don't understand his point here.
It's deliberately vague.
Some people are saying it's definitely comedy and you taking it too seriously.
Um, was all of this comedy?
I don't know.
There's some legitimate criticisms though.
They're actually like based in some kind of, you know, consistency, but there's
some of this, I'm just like, wait, what lady complete with a stock sound effect,
just so he can get the jump on spider-man.
And then the scene ends with this great line.
Sometimes he just shows up for no reason.
I don't understand.
Is it, but I don't get it.
Great line.
I think, well, I think it works, but I don't know if he's saying this to camp
again, maybe no one says no to me.
Yeah, it seems reasonable.
Sounds like something that green goblin would say.
The problem is it's difficult to tell whether he's talking about it in terms of
genuine appreciation, like it's so bad, it's good.
Or he's saying it's bad.
Or is he actually saying it is actually kind of good because it matches the
character or yeah, because that's what I would argue.
I think it matches, uh, who I was born is.
Yeah, I don't think it's a, you can't use it as a criticism of the film.
Yeah.
I mean, we'll just have to keep going because there's nothing
for us to really grasp here.
Yeah.
Sometimes he just shows up for no reason, like this jump scare.
However, a character in the, uh, in fairness, in fairness, that scene is again,
washed recently, spider-man wakes up or Peter Parker wakes up from a nightmare.
That's what that is.
And you can tell that the shot is from the rooftop where he gave him the speech
about New Yorkers being evil.
So you can, I absolutely agree.
It's a jump scare, but it's got context to be, it's a, it's a nightmare.
Yeah.
It's context is definitely there for a reason.
It's not just random or something.
I don't know.
Fair enough.
However, a character in these movies that I do not like is Aunt May.
Aunt May has the worst pep talks in this movie.
I can't help thinking about the last thing I said to him.
He tried to tell me something important and I threw it in his face.
Wow.
She's so wise.
What was wrong with that?
I don't know what was wrong with that either.
That sounds like a pretty reasonable thing to say.
The fact is like the focus on the fact that you loved him and he knew that you
don't need to worry about anything else.
Yeah.
It's like it's really appropriate thing.
Also, yeah.
How can you hate on Aunt May?
What the hell?
Yeah.
I, as soon as I heard that he was hating on Aunt May, I was like, Hmm, okay.
It's gotta be, this has better be good.
So you've got some great parts in these movies, especially the second.
We're nearly eight minutes in.
I don't know what's going on.
Just the biggest asshole.
He was stealing from a bank.
He's stealing.
How is that being an asshole?
What the fuck?
She slapped.
Guys.
It was a joke.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Nevermind.
It's satire.
It's his opinion.
Nevermind because it's a joke.
Yeah, it's funny.
That's the, the, it's a joke is the new in my opinion.
I mean, certainly for this video.
So anywho, the second half of this movie hits and you realize that we are now
watching a completely different movie and I couldn't be happier.
Honestly, this movie is so wild and I think that's why everybody loves these
movies in the second half of the movie.
We're also introduced to the actual best character.
J Jonah Jameson.
I can agree with that when I read the comics, I hear his voice in my head.
Not only is his performance good, but it's like his scenes have a
completely different writing staff.
His lines are legitimately funny in this.
Mr.
Jameson.
I have to ask what is legitimately funny meat?
I'm assuming he just, so now he's being serious.
Yeah.
Legitimate humor, but this is legitimate.
And this is, um, a big compliment to the films, right?
This is the part I don't.
Yeah, I agree with him.
Yeah, I agree.
One of the things about the third film was because they tried to like tone
back his character, which was a baffling move.
Well, yeah, they, they give him the anger control pills and stuff and, and he
doesn't do a lot of the stuff that I love, which is just the, the dealing
with whatever crazy new thing has happened with the hero of the villain
in the episode, the film.
Sorry.
But yeah, I guess, yeah, I agree with you that this is an awesome part to the films.
Uh, I love these parts.
They're great.
Are you the Spider-Man?
Yeah.
To the point where I'm pretty sure he's making some of this stuff up.
Spider-Man wasn't attacking the city.
He was trying to save it.
That's slander.
It is not.
I resent that slander is spoken and print.
It's liable.
Also, do you guys remember that Elizabeth Banks is in these movies?
Yeah, I know.
Nobody remembers that.
To be fair, I forgot about it.
I've forgotten about it until I watched these movies.
I mean, I forgot who played the secretary.
I mean, she's not really that relevant to the film.
Yeah, it's very minor part, but she, she plays it.
All right.
Oh, she's not bad.
She plays it fine.
I love her loss.
We've never been this lost responding to a video like the scene happens.
We get a really good idea of how much this movie has completely lost it.
Where before the special effects were mostly hidden or just briefly shown.
This movie is now a CGI nightmare.
And if you think I'm being mean to a movie that came out in 2002,
let's see what a real critic has to say.
You know, my thumb is down on this movie, but flying through the skies
and leaping between buildings, he looks like an artificial cartoon character.
He moves too fast without the weight and presence of flesh and blood.
See, they even thought it looked like shit back then.
So leave me alone.
This part here always kind of bother me.
I don't, I didn't have a problem with it.
Honestly, I mean, it's early 2000 CGI.
I mean, it's never going to be perfect.
Let's be fair.
Look what they do.
It's like a guy on a glider flight around.
I mean, you know, maybe you could say like, well, they could have hidden it better.
It's like, okay.
Um, fine.
The effects could be better.
They could have done a better job there.
They did the best they could with what they had.
I think, I think they hold up pretty well.
I mean, I, it didn't take me out of the film.
If it did for you, then it did for you, you know, um, but it didn't for me.
So I, I'm fine with it.
I think they hold up a decent, decently well.
But yeah, I don't know.
Again, I'd be like, is this really that bad?
Also, I don't, I don't have the appeal to authority fallacy doesn't concern me.
Oh, well, I guess his point was that he's not just bringing people
were bringing up that it looked a bit awful back then.
Um, but using Rodri, but it does make you think like,
so that would, that actually wouldn't help his point.
It would help his point if back then they said it was good.
Well, that's actually the counter-argument would be most people did not have a
problem with the CGI when this film came out from what I remember very anecdotal.
Yeah.
It says worse than you remember.
So if you have a critic saying it was as bad then as it is now, then
that doesn't support your argument.
And also to some extent, I don't think this, um, this completely devalues that
criticism, but they, they are sort of cartoon characters that they're, they're
superheroes, they're not necessarily meant to move around and look like flesh and
blood, I guess.
I feel, I feel like it adds to the borderline cartoony feel that sounds really
pretentious, but do you see what I'm saying?
Um, well, this is kind of the thing about, uh, bad and good graphics.
It's like they're, uh, they're surface level.
So if it, if it bothers you, it bothers you.
If it doesn't bother you, it doesn't bother you.
You can absolutely call out bad CGI, but this is why when I reviewed Black Panther,
I think I had one line for the bad CGI.
Cause I was just like, you know, there's going to be people out there who just
aren't bothered because that's how CGI goes.
Like that's this.
And you know, do I think it's bad in the 2002 film where there's a man flying
around on a glider throwing bombs and missiles?
Like, um, for its time, I think that's it's solid.
I don't know.
I just, I, I just don't know how legitimate it is to criticize a film based
on its CGI based on today's standards.
Certainly.
Yeah.
On today's standards.
This is why it feels a little bit unfair.
Uh, it's just like, okay.
And, and again, I wonder, uh, how much of this has ruined the film exactly.
I don't know.
I'm assuming that's, that's what he's saying.
Cause it's completely subjective, isn't it?
Yeah.
Like I don't really have a problem with it, but fair enough.
You know, third, me too.
See goblin has these fucking bombs that turn people into skeletons.
Yeah, for real.
Anyway, he throws it at this balcony and Harry.
Well, I mean, it doesn't turn them into skeletons.
Yeah.
I mean, he's a bad guy.
I'm surprised he never uses it.
It's quite a bad considering.
You need to watch this, this sentence in its entirety though.
He makes him, he's making a more general point.
Okay.
Okay.
I'll rewind it.
Other me too.
See goblin has these fucking bombs that turn people into skeletons.
Yeah, for real.
Anyway, he throws it at this balcony and Harry and MJ are also on this
balcony, like they're right next to each other, but the bomb only kills these
people, not only kills them, it fucking vaporizes them.
But why didn't MJ get hit?
She saw it happen.
She literally watched this happen right in front of her.
That's a fair amount of distance.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, they might be out of range.
If I was to criticize this myself, I would rather go for the fact that green
goblin doesn't seem to use this technology on anyone, but these guys,
even though he has a lot of times where he could, and it's very amazing
technology.
It's like, wow, you couldn't vaporize like flesh.
Like that's pretty amazing.
But, um, wasn't he trying to kill them specifically as well?
That's true.
And, and add it to the fact that it's like, this is a movie's fiction.
They can literally just say it didn't affect her because she's out of range.
Simple as that.
Yeah.
Like the reason he came there at all was because they would be there.
But, uh, yeah, someone else said it could be a directional Bob is like, I, I, I'm
not going to, that was one of my thoughts actually, but it doesn't look like one.
But again, that's pure speculation.
Yeah.
If she was right next to them, I would agree, but she's far enough away, um,
for me to believe that.
Yeah.
But she's fine.
I mean, maybe you gotta be like really, really close to it.
I don't know.
Now I'm going to show you guys a brief clip and it showcases exactly why I love
this movie and why I think this movie is a huge joke.
Everything that this movie symbolizes in my mind is in this clip.
This clip has everything that is that selection of cliffs, man.
That is so comic book, you know, I think we need to let him explain though.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
I'm not actually criticizing him right now.
I'm just appreciating that selection myself.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
It's totally, it's completely comic book.
I love it.
Just it's spider man.
He's like, what?
Spider man.
This clip has everything.
Where are you so excited about those complaints?
Oh, it's, uh, it's that's, that's the part where, you know, stuff like that.
I was like, yeah, this film is definitely a campy, but I don't know if it's a
criticism, um, I'm not saying he's saying that I'm saying, I'm saying that I don't
know if it's a criticism that these things exist because would you attack the, uh,
the old Superman movies for that?
No, no.
I think that is inappropriate as weird as that is to say.
This clip has everything.
Goofy ass Willem Dafoe acting, screaming women, which Sam Raimi loves by the way,
but I'll get into that later and hilarious extras.
I did not edit that clip to be any faster.
That's just the pace of these movies.
This festival scene is just really a masterpiece.
I can cut out five seconds at any point of this whole scene and you
have unintentional comedy gold.
Oh boy.
So the scene ends.
I love that.
Do you don't love that?
It's not coming to the point.
Good.
I love it.
Like it makes me feel like, oh, so it's just the Asian guy back there.
So the nice one, two punch.
First, we get one of the funniest lines in the movie.
Again, he's insane as well, by the way, this is a comic book movie.
He's also insane and he's insane.
Well, made again spider.
It's like Pokemon.
It's like, come on, man.
Yeah, the scene ends with a nice one, two punch.
First, we get one of the funniest lines in the movie and then Peter
Parker kidnaps Mary Jane and the crowd cheers him on for doing this.
Oh, um, he saved her life.
If you miss that part, he, um, he saved her life.
That's probably, and he's going to just drop her off.
He drops her off in a park, I think, instead of, you know, the, the dangerous
area in which the rubble is falling.
Yeah.
Just, uh, he could have dropped her off closer.
Sure.
But, but yeah, he kidnapped it.
It's supposed to be funny.
I suppose if she asked to bring him back, to bring her back, he
probably would have done it.
Cause it's Peter Parker.
You don't think she needs to like go to the hospital because she was
trapped under fucking rubble.
And people have also pointed this out before, but that's
obviously a mannequin.
But the balcony was at an angle.
I didn't, yeah, I didn't, I didn't know she was trapped under rubble.
I thought she was just, I don't think she's hurt at all.
You don't think she needs to like go to the hospital because
she was trapped under fucking, no, I'm pretty sure it's literally just
that it's falling and it's angled.
So she's kind of like, you just want to move, essentially.
It's like, you wouldn't want to move in case it actually makes it full.
That sort of thing.
Yeah.
Rubble.
And people have also pointed this out before, but that's obviously a mannequin
in a Spider-Man costume and her hair is blowing in the wrong way.
Anyway, let's look at more goofy scenes out of context.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll give them that.
No, masks are the theme.
This movie is so fucking funny.
Again, context, he's, uh, got the second head in his head and, uh, all the masks
are obviously it's the green goblin mask represents his other personality.
I don't know.
Again, just seems, okay, fine.
Yeah, there, there's a lot of masks.
I mean, even when he talks to the green goblin at a time, he's
taught, he's looking at the mask.
Also, we need, uh, we need halfway through the video and he hasn't even
talked about Spider-Man two yet.
Like, Oh shit.
You're right.
Or three.
I mean, do you guys feel satisfied with how much he's covered
of Spider-Man one so far?
I mean, if they were better, I would feel more satisfied.
Well, I was just going to say like, there's a lot, it's about the purpose of
this video again, is it like, is the only covering the bad, but he's covered
the good several times, so he's not covering all of the good.
I don't, I don't know.
Yeah.
I think a lot of his, most of his points seem to be that the tone
is consistently what it is.
Consistently inconsistent.
No, it's consistently consistent.
I'm talking about, I'm talking about Cosmonaut's tone, not the films.
No, he hasn't really said anything aside from, you know, the mannequin thing.
He hasn't really said anything about why the films are worse than we remember.
Yeah.
There's a couple of points where I'm just like, yeah, that's, that's fine.
He makes me like the movie even more that he points them out.
He's doing the opposite job.
He makes me go, ah, that was a good part, wasn't it?
The point of the video is to say the movies aren't flawless, but
he still really likes them.
You guys are too eager to tear it apart line by line.
The title is worse than you remember.
Yeah, I don't know about that, man.
And a lot of these criticisms are literally inaccurate, literally in the literal sense.
Yeah, he's saying things that just aren't true.
So, I don't really think, see, that seems like a bit of a cheaper defense to me.
It's like, leave me alone.
I could do what I want.
It's like, well, I mean.
And since he, well, yeah, again, going back to Roger Aver, he brought him up to
support his point, um, you know, it doesn't, to me, that gives me the impression
he's trying to make a serious point.
Yeah.
Well, there's a, again, the tone is so confusing.
I don't know when to take him seriously, but he's definitely
been accurate a couple of times.
And if you're going to throw it all away as every time he's inaccurate, he's
doing it in favor of a joke, you are literally using the defense that is used
for cinema sins, for Cosmonaut variety hour, which I'm assuming anybody who's
a fan of him would say he's much better than cinema sins.
Correct.
What do you think that his links in the chat said his criticism is this is so
silly, but he never states why this is bad or detracts from the film.
Yeah, I'd agree with that.
In fact, he seems to praise it.
What do you guys think about this clickbait argument that it's
essentially just clickbait?
Oh, uh, like the title is clickbait and the video itself is not really the title.
So far, if the, if the film ended here, I would agree.
If, or if this video ended here, then I would agree, but we'll see where it goes.
But so far, I'm kind of getting the clickbait vibe.
Oh, his other, sorry, the points he's making, the points he's making
do not line up with the title.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He seems to be doing the opposite.
In fact, Oh, his other video.
I actually haven't watched, uh, any of his other videos for a while.
Are his other videos like this?
Uh, what do you mean?
Like for clickbait or do you mean sort of format?
As in like, if, when he's criticizing a film or he's analyzing it, is it serious
or is it jokey?
I don't know.
I've always thought he'd make serious points.
Uh, I remember getting sent his video explaining why, uh, Ray wasn't a Mary
Sue in defense of the force awakens back before I was making reviews or, but
it was sorry, before I, you know, people started watching my reviews before I went
up to, uh, uh, the, uh, the last day I came out, obviously, but I remember
seeing it and being like, well, that's not a very good argument.
And if the whole time he was just joking, then I'd be like, huh.
Um, interestingly enough, Kira, the renegade set and champ that Ebert also
said Spider-Man two is one of the best superhero films, but.
No, it's not going to be relevant.
I don't think he's going to bring that in.
Like, it's not going to help it out.
We'll have to see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
On text.
This movie is so fucking funny.
It's pretty clear that this movie is the goofiest thing to be put on film in the
year 2002.
I mean, the climax has the villain literally holding the love interest in one
hand and a metal box of children in the other.
Superhero movie, man.
Comic book movie.
It's exactly this is, so what he's pointed out is a very consistent set of, of
criticisms in that a lot of them seem to just be that this film has a tone.
And it's sticking to that tone.
That's what I'm getting.
Yeah.
That doesn't make the films worse.
No,
this guy.
And I can see why he kind of did.
Yeah.
He responded to him in his TLJ video, I think, which was interesting.
He basically just counted the, um, he counted the counter for Ray being a Mary
Sue, which that's just an ongoing criticism.
For some reason, people just don't, don't agree with that.
A lot of people don't.
And Spider-Man has to pick which one he's going to save.
If something this stereotypical happened in a superhero movie today,
there would be public outcry.
Um, here's, I'm going to make a choice just to save something or something else.
I'm pretty sure they still do that.
I mean, you know a lot more about the, the Marvel movies than I do.
Like, does that kind of thing still happen?
Or is, as you say, something similar to this?
I don't know if you'd get something as, as blatant, um,
not as blatant and specific, but this is the thing is that this kind of a thing
in the movie matches the rest of the movie.
And I'm not saying that just because it's consistent, it's good, but you
can't really fault the film's consistency.
Oh yeah.
Someone just said it happened in the dark night.
It happened in the dark night.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, you can't, you can't say this is any different.
The guy's like choose between this many lives.
Like it's dark and it's darker and grittier, but it's the same basic choice.
I mean, this is the thing I felt like I didn't even need to get a reference.
It's like the idea of heroes choosing between saving one or the other of a thing.
It's like, that's, that's, that's the point.
What's wrong with that?
I think that's good.
So Bernard and chat said his point is that now that Tom Holland is Spider-Man,
people act like these movies are masterpieces.
This is the show that these movies aren't as good as people say they are.
But is he making that point?
Well, then he shouldn't have called it worse than you remember.
He should have said they're not flawless or not flawless.
Just that, because you wouldn't have catch any disagreement from us about
them not being flawless.
But the thing is, he's pointed out flaws that aren't flaws a couple of times already.
He's saying things that aren't true.
And I still don't think it's fair to judge this film based on modern cinema standards of
superhero movies, because superhero movies have changed over time.
And this, this helped establish them in the first place.
Someone's all said he's trying to say they were, they are worse than remembered.
Not bad, but he's not making that point.
He makes me think they're great.
I'm not even sure what his point is.
It's very confusing.
Is he meant to be arguing against nostalgia, then?
If you if I watch this video and you hid the title from me and I had to guess the title, I would
assume that this is in praise of Spider-Man one or the value, the value of, you know, the superhero
camp. Like, I would think that this is a praise film or a praise video.
He did he did start this off with reference to Homecoming, right?
He said that everyone keeps telling him that Spider-Man two is better than Homecoming.
I'm just going to put it out there.
Homecoming has flaws, too.
Like, this is, again, why I said that I probably picked Spider-Man two over it.
I think that Spider-Man two is actually stronger in terms of construction.
It's a complicated thing to break down.
But I mean, if that's his point, that these are worse than Spider-Man Homecoming, then even
then, I'd say that he's he's going to the thing.
Is if he's trying to seriously argue, then his arguments don't work.
And if it's just a joke, does it just a joke?
Yeah, it's just a joke.
Then we're just giving you content, I guess.
But if he's trying to compare the two movies, then I think I genuinely believe if we had him here
right now, he would say, no, I was just trying to say that these films have a lot of things that
people don't seem to acknowledge.
Maybe I think that's probably what his position is.
Maybe, but I just be like, well, if we'd gone through the video with him, we'd be like, you
realize that, for example, Peter was probably getting to the to the bus stop and you'd be like,
yeah, OK, OK, I doubt you'd be like, it was just a joke.
But, you know, this thing, everyone can make mistakes.
Sorry. We're all good.
This stereotypical happened in a superhero movie today.
Though I still don't get this point at all.
It's coming back to this, you know, it's so fucking strange that he's had to choose between the
love of his life and several children.
It's almost like something Goblin would do.
It's like he's criticizing the movie for being made when it was.
Correct me if I'm wrong, it doesn't goblin actually say this, like he actually says something
along the lines of like, you never know when someone's going to give you a crazy choice like
this or something like that.
Like it's very tongue in cheek.
Like the film is very aware.
Yeah, like Green Goblin is aware of like superheroes.
You know, because early on in the film, he talks about you don't want to be the good guy
superhero.
You want to be the bad.
You want to be the supervillain with me.
Hang on. Someone said he explains the Amazing Spider in his Amazing Spider-Man review.
He explains this video.
We'll we'll play that after we're done with this one just to see what he says.
I've got that ready.
Public outcry about how silly it is.
But to top it off, you get the funniest line in the whole movie.
And I mean it out of everything I've shown you guys.
This line.
This one's the funniest one now is my favorite.
No, no, this one takes the cake.
I have memorized this speech.
It is truly iconic to me as one of the greatest and cheesiest superhero movie monologues.
This is why only fools are heroes, because you never know when some lunatic will come
along with a sadistic choice.
Let die the woman you love or suffer the little children.
Truly a masterpiece as a regular superhero movie.
I'm going to give this a six out of ten.
So that was a criticism, right?
I think so.
Also, six out of ten.
Hmm. I mean, I'm not a huge fan of numbers just because you never know what they
actually mean, but I'd probably go higher than six personally.
Yeah, eight minimum.
But I guess that's it for Spider-Man one.
Also, what does that mean that he's actually throwing reviews at the end of them?
You know, like as if he's as if he's talked about the pros and cons already, but he's
really, really talked about the cons like a two pros.
I and his cons were mostly not.
But yeah, OK, I thought this was I would have assumed that this was an in praise of
Spider-Man one video.
So, OK, so if his video is not 100% criticism, how what criticisms has he actually
mentioned that would reduce it from a 10 out of 10 to a six out of 10, let's say.
Yeah, because this is interesting to go in chat.
It's like this was not criticism.
Six out of 10 is positive.
Y'all just seem to want to disagree with everything he says.
We've agreed to them several times.
So yeah, we've agreed with that.
That's the thing.
We're agreeing with him on a lot that he says, but he seems to be taking those things
as bad or that I'm mostly confused if if I saw this on my own and it was irrelevant
of like analysis, I wouldn't know how to react to this.
I just be like, I guess he's saying it's got camp, which I agree, which it does.
And that makes the film great.
Oh, people are saying it might be a YMS reference.
What does him putting a number on the end?
Casually, because YMS does do that.
Oh, maybe that sums up.
We have no, well, we don't know, do we?
But I'm considered now because we're about to jump into Spider-Man 2 and man.
We have Spider-Man 2 and 3.
He's been half on he's been half on the first one.
So I mean, I hope he's going to go over the worst and the best in his next half.
But you catch up on super chance.
I'm going to use the loo and get a very, very good man.
Me too.
I will.
I will talk to my wonderful audience.
Oh, God, I saw this already.
All the movies are basically the same.
Get ready for a good time.
It's going to be three hour or five hour slash.
Love y'all.
I don't specifically know how long we're going to take, but yeah, this video is a
little bit confusing so far.
I give this F to pay respect to your Twitter rags.
Oh, I mean, I'll let him know when he comes back.
Have you guys seen any of Shammy's videos?
I've I think I saw his ukulele one if he if he made a ukulele.
No, I saw his No Man's Sky one, which he's made more than one of, I think.
But I'm I'm aware of Shammy, I think I just want to say I love you guys.
Hope you all have a great day and weekend.
Thank you, James, for the one hundred dollars again.
It's very generous of you.
You approved of Disney Fox merger, Sony Keeping Spider-Man and the guy who
created Despicable Me is rebooting Shrek is the world ending.
What happens if Sony keeps Spider-Man?
What happens to the Tom Holland Spider-Man?
Does it go to Sony?
I'm assuming Knox, part of the MCU.
I love to see what happens with that.
Greetings, dear sir.
It's from Austria.
Thank you for the great content.
It's only three of us, but I mean, maybe you're talking about Wolf as well.
I watched all your efaps and learned and laughed a lot.
Your unbridled rages were great and lengthy.
Star Wars ones were.
We're half.
Oh, it's the second one.
Informative, interesting and eloquent.
Please tell Wolf he's missed and I hope he's doing OK.
Yes, you were a friend of Wolf and I will let him know.
Thank you very much.
And Rags, you'll get your own SC in your next stream.
I'm not sure what SC references, I'm afraid.
If you like this guy's Raimi trilogy video, you should see his MCU
videos where he has to say about Civil War.
Oh, you guys know how much I like Civil War.
Is that such a wise idea?
Probably not.
Captain Midnight did a very good rebuttal to this.
That would be interesting to see.
Considering I'm curious if Captain Midnight got the same criticism that
we're sort of getting here about like taking it too seriously.
I don't know because I don't know what to take seriously.
I just like homecoming because it misses a huge part of Spider-Man's
character and story.
There aren't any consequences.
High Top Films makes a very good video on that subject.
Anyway, I want to say I love you.
Rhino Milk.
I will have to check it out because I did like homecoming quite a bit.
Celebrate my birthday, so I can't stay for long.
But I wanted to say hi.
Hello, Mavros.
Oh, I needed this podcast.
Just got weird.
My brother was finally deployed to Japan for the next seven months.
Thank you.
Anything to make you guys feel good if it does that, that's great.
Obviously, we are laid back, but it can be critical sometimes.
So hopefully it's just entertaining.
Deliberately bad criticism is still bad criticism.
Yes, but Nick, what if they say you're not supposed to take it seriously?
There's very confusing rules on that one.
I mean, this is the same thing that happened with H-Bomber Guy.
I said that I would sort of take things seriously and if they were a joke,
then the audience would recognize that and we could all move on.
Because I couldn't tell because H-Bomber Guy has a very specific delivery, which
confuses me as to sometimes whether or not that's the case.
So I let the audience try and figure that out, I suppose.
Longing, rusted, 17 daybreak, furnace, nine by nine, homecoming, one freight car.
Mauler, are you ready to take on the capitalist machine two years later?
Hello, everyone, and welcome to my review of Star Wars.
It's going to be less than two years, but it's coming.
It's definitely coming.
Then again, I'll have a review of the new Star Wars in two years, probably.
So maybe that's still accurate.
Boohoo, the superhero fiction about a guy who can literally move faster than a normal human is fast.
That is how we get shit superhero films.
I mean, this is the thing.
We've sort of made a few arguments in favor of how he's sort of ignoring the tone and format.
So I think that is kind of relevant.
Because if you look at The Dark Knight, criticisms of Camp will be far more suitable,
considering how seriously the film takes itself.
While this film is obviously not s equal super chat.
That makes sense.
I'm sorry.
I missed that.
This dangus face takes the intentional campy tone and mixes it in with actual criticisms of the movie.
This video is some cinema sins level.
Shitey had some good videos, but this ain't it chief.
Well, that I mean, well, I'll I'll reserve my judgment until we get through the whole thing.
As a fan of both of you law and Cosmo, this is my two cents.
He generally is quite jokey, and he's done a series of videos called Why It Sucks,
of which this is one.
Also, he's a massive Spider-Man comic nerd.
This isn't a oh, so is it arguable to say that this is a video trying to explain why it sucks?
Or is it a poor job?
I was gonna say, but fair enough.
Superman in Kingdom come when in exile.
Luke in TLJ when in exile.
Troubled past both get a visitor.
Guess which one actually rises to the challenge.
Obviously, Luke with his projection.
Look, Luke was old.
I mean, just make an argument without it being old.
Okay, well, Luke was old.
That'll be point number one.
Only hipsters would hate rabies trilogy.
Rabies Spider-Man.
Maybe love New York City.
I cry every time.
I mean, I still love them.
Maybe not the third one, but I still love the first two.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So yeah, nice and caught up.
Is Chris back?
Or is he?
Oh, maybe.
Beautiful.
I just got back.
Are you guys ready to?
I used the loo.
I had a strawberry break because I'm a massive faggot.
You can't speak to rags now.
I can't talk to rags anymore.
Because I'm so sorry.
Um, but yeah, let's get to it.
But as a comedy, tens across the board, baby.
Comedic gold.
Don't tell Harry.
That was that funny.
So now we've arrived.
Apparently.
I don't know.
Oh, why was that funny?
I thought that was, I thought that was kind of nice that that was his last words.
Don't tell Harry, you know, like he does kind of care deep down.
Like he doesn't want Harry to think of him that way.
I don't know.
Maybe he added a laugh track, which means it's funny.
Okay.
How is it?
Oh, how is it?
Oh, fuck it.
Now we've arrived at the Citizen Kane of Spider-Man movies.
Or so people say.
Spider-Man 2.1.
That's the one I have.
I'm sorry.
Now all the point of this video is to bring up the crummy aspects of this movie and kind of laugh at it.
So he just said the point of this video is to bring up the crummy aspects and laugh at them.
Isn't that what he just said?
Or maybe.
Let's double check.
Spider-Man 2.1.
That's the one I have.
I'm sorry.
Now all the point of this video is to bring up the crummy aspects of this movie and kind of laugh at it.
I got to admit that it's 100% undeniable that this is the best movie out of the trilogy.
It's way funnier than the first one.
But just to clarify.
So it is that he's bringing up criticisms and he's laughing at them.
That's what he said, right?
Yeah, right.
So it's confirmation.
I guess.
Yeah, but the stuff he's bringing up is not a criticism.
Unless that was a joke, too.
I don't know.
Yeah.
This is a joke-ception.
It has some good emotional moments and it's pretty exciting to watch,
but it still has dumb shit.
So let's start off with another Peter Parker narration.
Who am I?
I'm Spider-Man, given a job to do.
Now I would run through this movie scene by scene like I did for the last movie,
but this movie's kind of...
Uh, do you guys think that he went through it scene by scene in the last movie?
No, because it was only...
It was less than 13 minutes.
Not only that, but he barely mentioned a hell of a lot of stuff.
There's probably some criticisms, I'd say, with...
He's gone over, but he's missed it.
I don't know.
Fine.
Yeah, go through it scene by scene, if that's what you call this.
Kind of hard to do that for.
All right, you better hurry up.
And I'd also be here for a really long time.
I'm trying to go to bed.
This movie follows a little bit of a formula, but not the same one as the last movie.
In this movie, everything revolves around Peter Parker being shit on.
And I know shitting on him is kind of half of the whole thing about being Spider-Man,
but that's exactly my point.
It should be half of the story.
Rewatching this movie is really frustrating, because everybody is an asshole.
Mary Jane is an asshole.
Aunt May is rude as fuck.
Harry is the biggest piece of shit ever.
Yeah, Harry's the only one I'd say that I actually have a minor issue with,
but the rest of them, there's...
So this is a bit of a fundamental criticism, I suppose, of his process here.
The chat said I miss Wolf denying the holocaust.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
Wolf shall return.
Absolutely.
You just got to maybe give it until next year.
Sorry, I'm not edgy enough, guys.
Got to crank it up, Chris.
You got some competition for Edge.
We'll take care of that.
Yeah, I was just going to say, so the problem is he just skipped over it with,
like, they're being a dick.
Okay, so context-wise, he tells Aunt May that he had a hand in the death of Uncle Ben,
and she's got severe money problems.
She's going through some stuff.
She's not just one-dimensional in this film.
And then you got Mary Jane, who's...
Is this the one where she's getting gradually more upset,
because Spider-Man life takes press?
No, wait.
Because that's the one in the third film.
That's the third one.
The second one, she's dealing with the fact
that she's struggling to become an actress, right?
And she keeps...
Yeah, and Peter's not sort of doing enough,
from her point of view, to be a friend.
Like, he's supposed to be her best friend,
but he keeps missing her show.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And that ties in with the film of Spider-Man keeps getting in the way of his life,
is the point.
Yeah.
And yeah, so...
I don't even know you.
What's happening?
She doesn't know he's Spider-Man.
She just thinks he's a friend, average dude,
and he keeps failing her as a friend, which...
They upset me.
Yeah, this is kind of what I'm getting at.
And the thing with Harry, for me, was he felt very one-dimensionally.
He only ever talks about how he just wants to kill Spider-Man.
Spider-Man's the worst Spider-Man.
And I just wish that we got a little bit more,
I don't know, a little bit more balance.
But obviously, in the scenery, Slap Speedery is drunk, so...
Yeah.
And some of the other characters, like,
they...
If they are being assholes towards him, they have reasons.
Like, the pizza store owner lost money,
and Peter, you know, because he didn't make the delivery.
So he wasn't being an asshole.
He fired him for not doing his job.
And again, it was because of Spider-Man in the opening.
He says something like, he's late because...
Did he say there was a disturbance?
He says something that implies he was doing something Spider-Man related, I think.
Yeah.
I mean, if there were a few characters who were being really, really nice to him at the same time,
it would be very jarring.
Because the whole point is it's meant to be tearing him down.
And I mean, his relationship is repaired with Aunt May and MJ by the end of Spider-Man 2.
He's confident, he's victorious, he does save the day.
Like, to me, what I'm saying is, like, as much as he goes through some rough stuff,
he does come out on top and everything resolves.
By the end, yeah.
Yeah.
But, um, sure, let's keep going.
This movie is just unrelentingly mean.
The first thing Harry says to Peter in this movie is,
hey, your friend Spider-Man killed my dad.
And I fucking hate you.
Yeah, that's kind of important, though.
Yeah.
That's kind of important, though.
It's not just important, but it's like, it's not that clunky.
I don't know, I guess that's a joke again, but he is...
Also, it's not literally the first thing he says.
Isn't it?
If I remember correctly, again, I kind of want to watch the scene, but, um,
he's like, uh, you know, the job gets brought up that he's been fired,
and he says, like, I've still got the other job.
And then he's like, oh, yeah, taking photos of your buddy, like...
Yeah.
Which is obviously a point of contention.
It would be out of character for Harry to say anything but that.
If he said something like, yeah, it's really great that you take photos of Spider-Man,
it would be like, why, why is he saying it like that?
It's a natural, uh, what do you say, progression, or segue, whatever.
Like, it feels natural.
He doesn't just randomly bring it up.
And it is very important that he brings it up at all.
And there's the thing, he's holding the grudge very strongly,
because if you remember, just before his dad died is when they connect the most.
Yeah, that's not being an asshole at all.
Like, his dad got murdered in his eyes.
Fair enough, I guess.
Talking about other stuff.
And then he's like, no, but seriously, I really hate Spider-Man.
I hate you.
And this is why Uncle Ben died.
Every chance Harry gets...
I'm just gonna write that off as a joke.
I have no idea what he's trying to say with that.
Yeah, I'll write off a joke.
He talks about how Spider-Man killed his dad.
Even when Spider-Man saves his life in the beginning of the movie,
he doesn't even skip a beat.
He's just like, this doesn't change anything.
God damn.
He killed his dad.
Yeah, he's filled with vengeance.
He killed his dad, ladies.
This is the thing, I actually blame Peter more for this,
because he just doesn't take the time to break it down for him.
But I guess it's difficult being that he's Spider-Man as opposed to Peter Parker.
That would be the...
And obviously, he's busy at many of these moments.
And plus, his voice sounds like Peter Parker.
He's like, oh, hey.
That's true, yeah.
Peter, what are you doing?
Oh my god.
I'm Spider-Man.
I didn't kill your dad.
I didn't kill your dad.
Okay.
And dude, you are really petty.
It also doesn't help that James Franco's acting is kind of shitty in this movie.
I'm ruined.
I have nothing left, except Spider-Man.
And then we have Aunt May, who nags the...
Yeah, I mean, I'm not one that's gonna defend James Franco's acting in these
movies or attack it.
I think it was fine, personally.
I don't know about you guys.
I think it's...
Overall, it was fine.
That example, yeah.
That would be a good example of his...
He could have done better.
They could have re-shot that.
Yeah, I think he...
Nothing left, sorry.
Except Spider-Man.
Oh, do you want to say something?
Yeah, I was just saying, I think sometimes he does have his very weak moments.
And yeah, they should have done reshoots.
But overall, I do think he's good with what he's given.
Yeah, I think again, I just say it's fine.
But again, he's brought it up as like a thing.
And I'm like, okay, I agree.
And then we have Aunt May, who nags the shit out of Peter Parker
in every scene that he's in.
She abuses random people.
Whoa.
He thought that was Peter.
Okay, so this...
Bead Rags is gonna be able to recall this
because we actually laughed our asses off of this bit.
So the context is they won a loan and Aunt May is saying,
look, you can trust me.
I'm bringing in money.
I'm teaching piano again.
And Peter, that's a lie to try and get the loan.
And Peter looks through and goes, you are?
And she wants to kick Peter to be like, shut up.
But she kicks this guy instead.
Instead, yeah.
It's funny because the guy's like, ow.
And Peter's just looking confused.
Like, what's going on?
That's a mistake.
Yeah.
Yeah, and also, he showed a clip of that earlier scene
where she insists on giving him money
because she knows that he needs it.
Which is a great scene, by the way.
That's not nagging.
That's not nagging.
I actually kind of want to rewind to that.
That scene is great because a richer person could give more,
but they could never give as much.
Yeah, and she wants to take care of him
regardless of her own circumstances.
That's the point of her character.
I might be in some dire financial straits at the moment,
but this is your birthday.
Yeah, it's important.
It comes across as like, there should never be a time
where a parent can't give the kids a birthday present.
That's what it comes across as to me.
And she gets really upset because she doesn't like elements of this film.
That's the thing.
I would actually say it's one of the best moments in the film
where Aunt May breaks down because she's got so little money
that giving $20 to the person that she's supposed to look after
is considered like a bad move and she doesn't want it to be that way.
She wants that to be...
So yeah, I would never consider that nagging.
It's just a great scene.
Parker, in every scene that he's in, she abuses random people.
And in the most egregious instance of mischaracterization,
she makes Peter feel more guilty for Uncle Ben's death.
At a crucial point in the movie, Peter is like,
hey, Aunt May, it's been eating me up inside.
I basically caused Uncle Ben's death.
I didn't know how to tell you and I'm so sorry.
All I want is forgiveness.
And she's basically like, wow, you're a piece of shit.
Okay, one, she doesn't say that.
She just walks away.
No, I didn't say that at all.
She doesn't say that at all.
Two, if you told me you killed my wife
and you didn't tell me for two years,
I'm not sure how I would take that no matter what your relationship is to me.
Yeah, that would take some processing.
I actually think it was really well done
because she doesn't do the stereotype thing and just go,
it's okay, Peter, we love you.
She just walks away because it's beyond shocking.
And if you remember in the third film,
she says, can you believe I would have been married
to Uncle Ben for 50 years today or something like that?
She was very much invested in that man.
He meant a lot to her.
So gonna have to disagree with that take.
And I think it's even more powerful
because she's constantly giving him support
and she is constantly being the nice one.
But this has made her walk away a little bit.
Yeah.
It's the shock of the situation.
It's not her being an asshole.
And she comes back from it.
She says, it's important that they stick together
and they're the ones that are around us.
It's okay.
It's just she needed time.
And it's again-
Doesn't she, correct me if I'm wrong,
but doesn't she say that it was brave of you to tell me?
Yes.
Yeah, she does.
This is what I mean.
The Spider-Man 2 is strong.
It's not just, oh, it's a neat film.
I was happy to admit it was like,
there's a lot of good writing in here.
I was impressed.
But yeah, no, if you sell it this way,
she says he's an asshole.
It's like, I don't remember that, but okay.
It's just a joke, guys.
Bye.
And then she just leaves.
She leaves him there.
Exactly.
He comes back and he tries to-
She is fucking distraught.
She's in shock.
And she's conflicted and she's distraught
and she doesn't know what to think.
So she walks away.
Yes.
She walks away rather than say something hurtful.
She doesn't know what to say.
That's the thing.
Yeah, yeah.
I was like, you do remember he literally says,
it's because of me that Uncle Ben is dead.
I let the robber go.
It's like, whoa.
That's something huge to take it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know how to react to this other than just, no.
Leaves.
She leaves him there.
Even when Peter comes back and he tries to talk about it again,
you know, to get some closure.
She's basically like, well, you fucked up, but whatever.
That is-
That's not what the scene is.
That's not what happened.
It is Aunt.
It is Aunt May in the films at least, I think.
Because yeah, she's generally the nurturing, the kind one,
the one who will always forgive anything.
And she's come back from that shock and said,
you know what?
It's okay.
It's water under the bridge.
You made a mistake, but it's best to move on.
Isn't that like one of the best things you can say in that situation?
Yeah.
And besides she's saying that as she's packing up,
because she wants to move on.
Literally move on.
Yeah.
The house is like, she sees Ben as the house that she's had for so long.
She wants to, she needs to move on.
And that's what she's trying to do.
And part of that moving on is forgiving Peter.
Yeah, I don't disagree with anything you just said.
I think that's exactly what the film's going for.
Not a strong take.
Not very strong, but whatever.
This is not Aunt May and it makes me really mad.
But even though Aunt May has the worst scene,
and she's one of the worst characters in the movie.
Can we just pause for a second?
Fuck off.
What does he mean by this isn't Aunt May?
Does he mean it's not Aunt May in the comics or just in line with the rest of the films?
I'm, I don't know.
I do not know.
I'm going to assume comic books.
He doesn't explain at all.
Maybe it's, maybe he means the one from the first film.
But I think she's completely consistent.
It would have bothered me if she just went, it's okay, Peter.
Because she's been dead for ages.
She's just more complex in this one.
She just shows more sides to her character.
Like she doesn't, I, that's what I mean.
I would argue she's less one dimensional, less one dimension.
She's, she's got, she's got multiple dimensions.
She has layers.
She actually has a character.
And I thought someone, someone said in chat,
I thought he hated Aunt May in the first film.
Well, I guess he hates both.
Well, again, I think he's referring to the comic.
Honestly, I think he's referring to the comic.
Okay, well, I mean, I'm a massive Spider-Man buff.
And I can tell you Rosemary Harris is still the most accurate Aunt May ever.
I mean, considering how heavily the, I don't know about second and third film,
but definitely the first one, how heavily they were based on the comics.
I'd be very, very shocked if they, you know, the Aunt May there was not representative.
Boros in chat said, she's an onion.
She's got layers.
But even though Aunt May has the worst scene and she's one of the worst characters in the movie,
she still isn't the number one worst character.
Wait, she's one of the worst characters in the movie.
Apparently.
That's what he says, I guess.
But man, I thought she was maybe the strongest.
I mean, you know how I take that?
I'm like, man, if she's one of the worst, this film is doing pretty good.
It's got some great characters, apparently.
Oh, but who does he think the real worst one is?
Let's find out.
Let's find out.
Can't wait.
Find out.
It's going to be Mary Jane's nose.
Yeah, there we go.
Yes, it is.
Let me go back a bit.
Sorry.
Worst character.
No, that award goes to Mary Jane Watson, the most petty and manipulative person
in the entire series.
She spends the whole movie.
I would agree with it there for her.
I was going to say, I'd agree with it in the third one,
but I'm fine with her in this first and second.
Third one, she's a bit of a actually the end of the second one.
I really didn't like that.
She ditches the guy at the altar.
I thought that was really good.
Yeah, that was a bit much.
Yeah, but she's the thing is Peter hasn't explained what's going on.
So she has no re she she has no explanation for why he's not being there for her at all,
why he's acting so weird.
And so I think any person would be like, what the fuck, dude?
Yeah, because the point is, she's almost being there for
she's almost being led on by Peter in a way, because he's like,
we're not being together.
But I clearly am in love with you.
But no, but I do want you to hang out.
No, it's yeah.
But oh, by the way, I am Spider-Man too.
She's like, what is a complete clusterfuck?
And, you know, she has that scene where I think it's the beginning of this film,
actually, where it's obviously following the end of the first film.
She's like, we should date.
And he's like, no.
And then she's like, we should date again, I think, at the beginning of this film.
And he's like, no.
And then she's like, by the way, there's someone else.
It's like, oh, as in as in like running out of time, our moment is about to close.
So like, be sure, I suppose is how I would have taken it.
And and then he spends the rest of the film trying to catch up with her,
if you remember, until he decides she comes back to him.
She's like, okay, fine, let's do it.
That he's like, no, actually, I was wrong.
Because you remember, it's like they play opposites throughout the whole film.
He doesn't want to be with her.
She does.
And then she doesn't want to be with him.
And he actually does.
He drops the whole Spider-Man thing and wants to become like a person.
And then the second she actually comes back, she's like, okay, fine.
And then he's like, no, actually, no.
This is what I mean by like, I understand.
What does he say?
What does he say?
No, near the end of the second film you mean?
You talk about like the second.
It's when they're having a conversation before Dr.
Octopus throws a car at them.
She's like, she's like, let's be together again.
Then he's like, she said, my mind was playing tricks on me.
We should be together.
And then he goes, oh, well, my mind was playing tricks on me too.
She's like, what the fuck?
She gets played around with a little bit in this film.
And I feel like because she has no idea what's going on with Spider-Man versus Dr.
Octopus, she's just sitting here with this guy who's playing around with it.
Like, I don't see why she wouldn't be the way she is.
What do you think?
I mean, a lot of people are saying that she is still the worst character in the film.
What do you what films?
What do you think?
Harry, maybe.
I think Harry's worse.
Yeah, I think he's so one dimensional.
Yeah, I would agree with that.
The thing is, I can still understand them both.
Like the most growth Harry gets is in the third film.
And it's, it's, you know, it's rushed because they have so little time.
But they have to get their three villains in.
Harry is best friend, steal your girlfriend man in the first one.
He doesn't really do much beyond that.
And then he's I hate Spider-Man man in the second one.
That's literally all he does.
Yeah, someone just said that MJ has daddy issues.
So it makes sense how she acts like that.
I think she has trust and abandonment issues as well.
That's true.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a big part of what goes on with her.
If you remember, what was the bit rags is something like,
she tells Peter that I think this is in the third film.
It's either the third or second.
No, it's gotta be the third film.
She says the reading these reviews, it's like they were written by my dad.
And he just goes, Oh, gotta go.
And he just jumps out the window.
And it's like, dude, that's not a time where you leave.
But yeah, you know, it's complicated relationship.
I'll go back a bit.
Make sure we don't cut anything out.
This movie, he's like, Hey, listen, I'm sorry.
We can't be together.
You know, I gotta do my own thing.
It's sad, but hey, he's being straight with her.
And in their first scene in this movie, she tries to make the moves on him.
And he's like, Hey, whoa, hold up.
Yeah, no, I'm still I'm still trying to be friends here.
I don't want to want to date you.
If I remember, I don't want to I don't want to pull up the dialogue.
But I'm pretty sure he gives implications that he's not 100% against the idea.
He says she says something like it was great seeing you again.
He says something like, Oh, yeah, it was that she's like, it was like she basically she's
like, what does that mean?
What is what you just said?
What was that?
And he's like, this is why he's fucking with her a little bit because he's not 100% sure.
Look how cute I am.
I baked you a fucking cake.
And he's like, Oh, okay.
Oh, boy.
Yeah.
Oh, boy.
Yeah.
And she's like, Admit, you love me.
Admit, you love me, Peter.
And he's like, No, I don't I don't want to.
So she takes it easy.
You know, she backs off a little bit.
She doesn't freak out or anything, except she does this shit.
And then a second later, she turns around.
She's like, Oh, well, you know what?
I have a boyfriend anyway.
So fuck you.
And she said, No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
She says, I have I'm seeing someone.
She says I'm seeing someone.
And then he says like a boyfriend.
And then she goes, like, she doesn't say yes.
She says something like, she says I like him.
She's like, face it, isn't she?
She's I think she says, like, I like him.
So I remember the dialogue being weird.
I'm actually going to pull up the script.
I'm not trying to do this just to prove him wrong.
I'm literally curious.
Yeah, it seems a little on committal from her.
But I think like they're little emotional back and forth
is part of the whole thing they have going.
And I think she I mean, I think it's clear from Peter's
delivery that he does like her.
But obviously, he won't explain why he can't be with her.
And I think she's just trying to get him to stop being,
like, in her eyes, stop being an idiot and just admit it.
Like, stop fucking around, like give her an actual reason.
He's not an awkward nerd or something.
Yeah.
I'm just checking out now.
So he says, Oh, boy.
Yeah.
And then she says, Oh, boy.
Yeah.
What?
And he goes nothing.
And then she says, Do you want to say something?
And he goes, I was wondering.
He pauses for ages.
And then he goes, If you're still in the village.
And she goes, You're such a mystery.
And obviously, he didn't actually want to answer that question.
He just covered.
And then she says, Happy birthday.
And she walks away and she says, I'm seeing someone now.
And he goes like a boyfriend.
And she goes, Well, like, I like him.
And he goes, What?
And she goes nothing.
And he goes, Oh, well, you know, companionship is good.
And she goes, Maybe more than that.
And he goes more.
And she goes, I don't know.
The point is that Peter doesn't know whether or not
he's actually sure about giving up on her or not, if that makes sense.
I think she's trying to leave the door open for him, basically.
Yeah.
That's the whole film is the both of them are telling each other
that they don't know whether or not they actually do 100% want to be together.
And they decide by the end.
And it's not definitive from Peter's side at all.
He really is.
I don't think it's manipulative.
No, I don't think so either.
I think this is two people who really are not sure about
what they're going to do with their lives.
And that's kind of a part of the film.
It's about identity, duality, choosing one life over another one.
It's it's all there.
Stop portraying it like it's tismic.
I think maybe that's I mean, sorry, I think that's kind of why she
likes Spider-Man, isn't it?
Because he sort of comes in and sweeps her off her feet and like saves her.
And I think because of her issues, she's looking for some guy to come in and be like,
you know, I'm with you now.
Maybe the reassurance.
I don't know.
I don't know.
That's what strikes me about it.
But yeah, I think she's just leaving the door in for him and saying, you know,
if you want it, you know, you better get on it quick.
Yeah.
And I think the beam like, oh, she's just so whiny.
She's just a dick in the film.
I should be like, I don't.
She's being human sewer.
Yeah, she's being human.
It's easy, you know, she backs off a little bit.
She doesn't freak out or anything, except she does this shit.
And then a second later, she turns around and she's like, oh, well, you know what?
I have a boyfriend anyway.
So fuck you.
And she seriously says it just to fuck with him.
No, she says it because she's trying to say that the windows closing.
I've got someone I like.
So you better be clear right now because otherwise I'm going to pursue this other guy.
Well, that's not fucking with him.
That's giving him the chance.
That's more blatant than a lot of people will be with each other.
It's like, yeah, definitely.
Very adult to be like, I'm going to pursue this relationship if we don't have anything.
But whatever.
Frame it this way.
It makes you look really bad.
It's just a joke.
Yeah.
I wonder if anybody feels like this section is a joke.
This has been very much more critical than the his typical sort of approach, isn't it?
Yeah, but it's wrong.
But then you learn that she's only fucking this other guy
because she's mad at Peter Parker.
She agrees to marry him right after she yells at Peter Parker.
It's just because she's mad at him.
Punch me, I bleed.
I'm not sure about that.
He's a very dashing astronaut.
And he asks her in front of like a massive crowd.
And he actually does something about it.
Yeah.
And he didn't really have much of a chat.
I mean, I'm not trying to say that she didn't want to marry him.
I'm saying that under the circumstances, it'd be pretty awkward if she said no,
because it's like a giant crowd.
He did it like it's a giant chat.
But yeah, I don't know.
There was I don't think there's a scene where she says she only married him
because she hates Peter or something.
I don't remember that.
Yeah, I don't remember it either.
So then in the weirdest scene in the movie, she has this fucking experiment with her
fiance where she makes him kiss her like Spider-Man kissed her in the first movie.
What if your girlfriend went up to you and was like, hey, can you kiss me like this one guy?
Well, she doesn't.
Well, she doesn't say that, does she?
Oh, man, this is getting tiring.
I think it was hot.
So genuinely, I'll just go with the overly remembering the film criticism.
I remember the second one better than the three at this point.
But she does it because when she kisses Peter in the first film, if you remember,
she looks at him like, wait, what the fuck?
Like because she's remembering the kiss from Spider-Man.
So what she's doing in this scene is figuring out if it's because it's Peter
or if because everybody feels that way when you kiss them.
Well, bear in mind at this point, she doesn't know that Peter Parker is Spider-Man.
So she's just remembering what it felt like to kiss Spider-Man.
So remembering about recapturing that feeling of, you know, kissing a hero.
I'm pretty sure, genuinely, I'm pretty sure she's doing it as like a test to see
if Peter does kiss the same way as Spider-Man or if everybody kisses
when you're upside down like that, like that.
I'm pretty sure that's what the point of the scene is.
I don't think it's her actually being like, please kiss me like my ex did.
I don't think that's that, but I mean, the fact is as well, is it so bad?
She does not get what she wants from Astronaut Man.
That is, I mean, as much as it's a bit cruel to Astronaut Man,
she just doesn't have passion for him, I guess is what I would say.
Yeah, yeah.
Poor Astronaut Man.
I used to kiss me, this one guy that I just kissed in it.
So I don't think she told him that.
I don't think she said, hey, I want to kiss you like my ex.
I think she just did.
And that's assuming that she didn't just kiss the guy on the couch
in that way, because that's kind of where she was.
I mean, because she's not kissing him like Spider-Man.
She's clearly on the side of him.
It's just different.
I think, well, I think she's deliberately placed herself there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's weird though.
Anyway, one time, I just want to, you know, see what it feels like.
What the fuck?
No, but that's not the only frustrating plot device.
See that he's just called it a frustrating plot device.
That's a serious criticism.
That's a plot device, the kiss?
Isn't it?
I'd have to refresh myself on what plot device means.
A plot device or plot mechanism is any technique
in a narrative used to move the plot forward.
I don't think it moves the plot forward that she kisses him.
No, it doesn't at all.
Yeah, if they didn't have that scene at all.
Is he referring to Mary Jane as a plot device?
I think, I don't know, man.
Possibly.
Whatever, we'll just keep going because I don't know.
It's just a joke.
Yeah.
You know, see what it feels like.
What the fuck?
No, but that's not the only frustrating plot device.
Dr. Octopus is also a big dumb ass.
Firstly, he has this extremely dangerous demonstration
in his fucking apartment with no protective gear
given to anybody in the room.
No protective gear?
He has fucking four massive arms that he injected.
He did say for them, not for himself.
He said for them.
Isn't he overconfident, though?
Yes.
The film takes a lot of points to say that he thinks
that he's in complete control.
Scientific hubris.
And even at the end, he acknowledges
that what Peter said was right and that he made a mistake.
Yeah, he does.
Because Peter's like, are you sure you've mapped everything out?
And then he's like, I've done it from the mathematical level.
No mistakes whatsoever.
And then later on, he actually says, there were no mistakes.
We'll do it again.
He's losing his shit.
Again, I'm not saying this is some kind
of great piece of writing.
But both him and the Green Goblin,
they've got the insanity gene, which is well established.
They've both got conflicting minds.
Dr. Octopus, as the inhibitor chip is broken,
he thinks he can just do it again.
I'm not saying this is a counter to his criticism.
I'm just saying, there's stuff in the film that answers this.
He thinks that he's got it so under control.
And it does, if you guys remember,
it is under control for the first two minutes.
He thinks he's calculated perfectly.
He's not being a dumbass.
He's wrong.
But that doesn't make him stupid.
Yeah, because the guy from Lost is like,
we have a stable energy signature or whatever.
And everything's working out.
And then it slowly goes boom.
Other than goggles for himself.
And then when he turns-
Well, he apparently is really close to it.
I guess that's how it works.
I don't know.
It's supposed to be a contained energy field.
And therefore safe for everyone else, right?
Isn't that the point?
And it was safe up until everything went wrong.
The point.
Well, his entire supervillain plot is,
well, I gotta finish my science experiment.
Might as well.
His science experiment is going to save the universe or the world.
That's his motivation.
I'm sorry, you can't get away with this one.
It's like his whole motivation is saving the world.
I mean, and even if it wasn't saving the world,
and if it was just for purely selfish reasons,
people's work is a huge motivation for why they do the things that they do.
And before anyone says,
he's killing people and robbing banks to save the world, really.
It's like, yes, he does value.
He even says, he says, we need money.
The arms say we should steal it.
He says, crime, I'm above that.
And then he says, wait, the real crime would be not to finish this project.
Exactly.
So there you go.
Also, he's being overtaken by the AI in the arms.
Yes.
The purpose of the arms was to conduct the experiment.
Yeah, the arms are very utilitarian compared to him.
So of course, they're going to drive him to want to finish it.
Yeah.
So yeah, all very good reasons why he has that motivation.
There's a lot of attention to detail in the right end for this film.
Like they really do want to get a lot of these things across.
Little cactus on the chat said, remember, guys, he's not into science that much.
Okay.
Dr. Octopus did nothing wrong.
I get that you're supposed to be crazy now because of the AI of the metal arms,
you know, fucking with his mind.
But why the fuck do they want to finish the fusion reactor?
Because it's their purpose.
Because that's what they want.
It's their entire purpose.
And I mean, are you asking us what the motivation of the clause is when they're
literally just tools with AI that allows them to basically be reactive to be able to
respond to like, you know, like they have the senses there.
Their whole thing is making this project work.
That's the whole reason they exist.
They're their whole purpose.
That's the goal that they were created for.
And they know it.
And he's got similar intentions.
It's just that they have no morality because they literally just tentacles.
Yeah, it's all about the purpose.
This is weak.
Yeah.
What do they care about sustainable energy for?
I don't get it.
He's one of the best characters in the Spider-Man universe with really complex goals and motivations.
But here he's just a fucking goofball.
I will say, though, that one of the best scenes in the movie is definitely the fucking horror
scene that plays at the end of the first act.
This is so reminiscent of Evil Dead that it makes me kind of giddy.
Like, look at this.
Tell me this is not from Evil Dead.
For real.
And to top it off, this scene is full of the other staple of this trilogy.
Screaming women.
I mentioned it briefly before.
I don't know if you've ever been around gals, man, but they fucking scream.
I don't know if he's saying it's a bad thing.
He's just pointing out.
Like, I agree.
I've been like, man, would it just be loud?
And yeah, I love that scene, the whole scene.
But the thing is, I love loads of the scenes from Spider-Man 2.
So.
Yeah, it's a great scene.
Yeah.
And it's classic Sam Raimi.
I mean, it's kind of a horror-y kind of, I mean, on its own, no, but compared to everything else in
the film.
Yeah, it's a horrible scene compared with everything else, but it's horrible in that.
You could, if you put this into a horror movie and you added blood splatters,
it would have been fine.
Like, it would have fit right in.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Like, you, they definitely leave things to the imagination.
Sam Raimi loves screaming women.
Even when the movie isn't being campy and it's not being serious,
it's just being really awkward.
You know, this video, when it's not being campy and it's not being serious,
it's just really awkward.
I would say it's really confusing.
I definitely agree with that.
Toby Maguire can't have a normal scene with somebody.
We sure showed him.
What do you mean, we?
So anyway, what was wrong with that?
What was wrong with that?
Well, we understand that's Peter Parker beneath that mask, right?
I feel bad because I love that bit where she's like,
I was the one who beat him.
And he's like, no.
It's good.
It's good shit.
I don't know.
That's got nothing to say.
All right.
Whatever.
Moving on.
Moving on to that in this movie.
You know, Peter Parker knows she could use a little boost.
So anyway, Peter Parker beats up Dr. Octopus.
He tells Mary Jane he's Spider-Man,
and then she leaves her fiance on their wedding day
and decides to be with Peter Parker.
Yeah, but she loves him.
Well, I was that I know it was he describing the plot or was he criticizing?
I don't know.
That's the big question.
He says it's fucked up and it is fucked up.
And I think the film treats it like it's like a good noble thing,
but she does it in a really dickish way.
She just, she jilts him.
Yeah, yeah, she does.
Jilting means you don't show up to the wedding.
But at the same time, I mean, I'm not defending her,
but like at the same time, if she had stayed with astronaut boy,
she would have been miserable.
She and Spider-Man would never have got together.
Would have gotten that astro.
Well, it would have been a very different ending, wouldn't it?
I would I think they did it for the theatrics.
I think that realistically, she would have just said,
I don't want to be with you before not leaving him literally on the altar.
That's some that's some that's some dramaticized stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
But in fairness, he's only described the plot.
He hasn't actually made that criticism yet.
I don't see it.
I don't know if he will.
Decides to be with Peter Parker, which is fucked up.
But whatever.
Well, I think he's saying that as a criticism.
Well, he's from my interpretation there,
he's saying the fact that she's done it in general is fucked up
as opposed to the specifics, because I think it's fine in general,
but the specifics is part of what I don't like how she did it.
I feel like in the context of this video,
just the way that he's talking about it, he is making it sound like it's a criticism.
Yeah, but we can't prove that either way.
I don't agree that her choosing him in the end is bad.
I just agree that it's the way it's put across is a bit like what?
Like, do you remember the scene?
The guy is literally like handed a letter while he's waiting for it.
He's like, wow.
And everyone's there, including Harry and his dad, which is just like, man, this is this was.
I was mean.
Yeah, okay.
I don't know if he's criticizing the relationship overall.
I'd have things to say, but I'll just assume it's about the scene.
Doesn't mind that he's Spider-Man and she'll do whatever it takes to be with him.
And that she'll be there for him no matter what.
Except in the next movie where she leaves him because he's Spider-Man.
She bit off more than she could chew.
Yeah, she didn't understand what she was getting into.
Nope.
And I don't remember exactly at what point in the film she breaks up with him.
But isn't it because he starts being a bit more of a dick?
Well, she breaks up with him because Harry forces her to under threat of death.
Oh, yeah, that's kind of important.
On the bridge.
And in fairness, he keeps fucking up beyond just being Spider-Man.
If you remember, he doesn't cheat on her, but he kisses another woman in front of her with their kiss.
Yeah, because me and Rags had a huge problem with that.
What the hell?
Well, he's let the power go to his head, isn't he?
Yeah, that is what the film's about.
Oh, yeah, that's what the film's about.
Anyway, this movie is dumb as hell.
Seven out of 10.
I love it.
Wow, that was what, six minutes?
Oh, that was the best of.
Oh, I would I.
Wow.
Okay, I guess that's done.
Correct me if I'm wrong about this.
Well, it's not really a fact.
It's just an assumption.
Do you think you started rushing this after he did the first one?
He's just like, oh, fuck it.
Yeah, because he's like, damn, this this is a 13 minute video.
Or the first one.
Do you think it's to do with the fact that it's just so little to criticize about the second one?
Maybe, but it's supposed to be worse than I remember.
Well, the crazy thing is that he criticized a lot of the genuinely speaking,
a lot of the great parts.
Yeah, the Aunt May thing.
Like, oh, yeah, he's just making stuff up or just deliberately misinterpreting stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
As Bane Flamer said, what about the trade scene?
How do you not mention the trade scene, man?
Oh, wow.
Wow.
Okay.
And then he's got, what, another eight minutes to cover the worst of the three films.
This is the problem.
No, you're really going to just tell us that Spider-Man 3 isn't very good because it's going
to we know.
Yeah, just we know you're going to be bringing anything new to the table.
I'm curious if he maybe is going to defend it.
That would be interesting, but maybe.
But what's strange is that you would think that it's universally kind of accepted that
the second one is the best of the three and that it's a really good superhero movie.
And if your point is to tell us that they're worse than we remember,
that would really be the big target.
Yeah, definitely.
Instead of half as long as the first one.
But yeah, let's just see what this goes.
I'm willing to take anything right now.
If he focuses the rest of this time of the third film,
then he will have focused on the worst one better than more than the best one.
When his point is to tell us they're worse than we remember, which would be strange.
We'll see what he does.
But that would be strange.
Spider-Man.
OK, so everybody knows that this movie is bad and I'm not about to talk shit about Spider-Man 2
and go ahead and say this one's good.
And I almost wasn't even going to talk about it because everybody already
knows the funny things in it, but I can't help it.
This movie is hilarious.
However, while the movie is bad, it's actually pretty consistent.
Oh, I didn't catch that.
So what do you say?
It's bad, but it's consistent.
Let's back up just a little bit.
I'm not about to talk shit about Spider-Man 2 and go ahead and say this one's good.
And I almost wasn't even going to talk about it because everybody already
knows the funny things in it, but I can't help it.
This movie is hilarious.
However, while the movie is bad, it's actually pretty consistent in its tone.
This still.
So what's interesting is that this is exactly what he said about the other ones.
It's funny, but those other ones were consistent in their tones.
I was going to say, yeah, they were consistent, right?
But so now do we know now with him saying that, do we know now that when he was
mentioning all of the silliness from the first two, that it's a bad thing?
Or if it's consistent in tone, that means it's not bad, correct?
Is he just saying that it's not?
It's only as bad as the others in that sense.
And I'm sorry, but I don't think I don't think three is consistent, by the way.
Personally, I think it goes super goofy and then sometimes really serious.
For example, when Harry dies is like some serious shit right there.
Yeah, they're really trying to play that out.
Like it's not the film isn't entirely goofy.
Well, didn't he say that he doesn't see much difference between the three films?
I think he did say that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In terms of like the quality.
Yeah.
Because the clip was on me on the left.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Oh, by the way, nice pause.
Yeah, good point.
Let me drag it back a bit.
Let's continue.
This movie is hilarious.
However, while the movie is bad, it's actually pretty consistent in its tone.
This still feels like a Spider-Man sequel, even if it is a really stupid one.
How's the pie?
So good.
So this movie goes ahead and starts off with another.
It's me, Peter Parker.
God damn it.
You think after two movies, he'd probably get good at this.
You'd think after two movies, you'd explain the problem.
Yeah.
He just keeps pointing out that he does it.
Is it just the bad delivery?
I'm assuming.
I don't know if it's more to do with the fact that it's ruining some form of immersion,
or if it's like commentary that's unnecessary, or if it's just bad acting.
I don't know.
Well, it's a very comic book intro, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah, so.
That's all we've got, guys.
But no, he doesn't.
Now, if you ask me, the best part about this movie is the fact that the wackiness
starts at the very beginning.
It's not a gradual buildup like it is in the last two movies.
This movie starts off as a shit show.
At the 10-minute mark, we already see two antagonists.
Harry starts juicing with the Goblin Serum.
Yeah, I mean, me and Rags completely agreed with this.
We were watching it.
They rushed the shit out of this film.
They're like, oh, yeah, they did, yeah.
This is this.
This is this.
Go, go, go, go, go.
And you know why?
Because they've got to fit so much other shit into it.
And I feel for Sam Raimi if this was forced on him producer-wise.
When Harry walked out of the chamber, I think I was like, well, that's that.
That's that.
That's done.
Yeah, he's like, well, he's the super villain now.
A fucking meteorite lands in Central Park with the symbiote.
This movie is trying to juggle all of this shit at once and it really doesn't work.
Also, the symbiote coming from outer space is fucking stupid.
I know that's how it is in the comics, but there's a lot more context in the original story.
With everything that we know about this universe so far,
telling me that aliens exist is kind of a stretch.
Saf?
Well, it's a comic book movie.
Hang on. Wouldn't it be the opposite with everything that's going on?
Telling me aliens exist slots right in.
Yeah, you're willing to believe that a spider bite turned a man into a human spider.
And you got an octopus man just trying to create redoable energy at his apartment.
If it is, I mean, somebody's saying that's not how it is in the comics.
But if that is how it is in the comics, then how can you blame them for putting it in the movie?
Well, I don't think it's existent, though, matter of space feels like it's something
that kind of deserves a whole lot more time to sort of play up its importance.
Instead of just one of three villains.
Um, I'm just I'm mainly just stuck at the factory that you're just like,
aliens with everything else going on kind of aliens too.
And I'm just like, that's weird.
I would have thought it would fit right in.
The MCU obviously is doing it.
They're just like, yeah, there's aliens by the way.
Like, yeah, I mean, I do think inclusion of venom is a little bit random.
Yeah, but well, I think if they made the movie about it, it might have worked instead of just
being like, oh, fuck it.
It just feels like, yeah, oh, here's a here's a plot device or here's a villain.
I don't know.
I feel like he could develop that point.
I'm not really sure he's going with that.
After all that, Harry ambushes Peter and tries to fucking murder him in the street.
We are not even one sixth through the movie at this point.
Now, all things considered, I actually like this fight.
It's pretty exciting.
We know Peter isn't going to die because the movie just fucking started.
But the main thing at risk here is the wedding ring.
It adds an extra threat to the fight and it's good for making the audience engaged.
Now, right after this scene, we're thrown into the Sandman's origin story.
Because like I said, this movie has no fucking breaks.
However, him turning into Sandman is actually one of the best sequences in the whole movie.
I agree with that too.
Yeah, it was pretty good.
Yeah, I agree.
Him picking up the lock.
It was really great.
One thing I will say, though, is that Meerak thought it was funny
when he breaks into this place and these sides of people are like,
hey, this is silicone.
This is some kind of thing.
They say we can detect some kind of signature and then they go,
it's probably a bird.
It'll go away.
And we thought it was hilarious that there's just this set of police that are parked outside,
like trying to break in.
They're just like, it's probably nothing.
It may not be a full blown criminal jumped in there.
But like, isn't he now offering a piece of serious criticism?
Well, as in positive criticism.
Yeah, I'd say so.
Yeah, so it's a joke.
I don't know.
It's all joke, but I have no idea.
The effects have aged pretty well.
And with no dialogue and beautiful music, it's an excellent example of
I don't know about the music.
Yeah, the music I wasn't when it was rags brought up when we were watching it.
And I did think about the music.
And I was like, I'm not 100 percent sure what they're portraying exactly.
I didn't even notice the music.
Yeah, it was very it just didn't really fit.
I don't think the movie really fit, but I it was it was enough to where I did when we were
watching this film.
I did bring it up.
I was like, the music here seems off when we were watching this part.
But I mean, yeah, you know, I'm fine with it still.
It's like it's it's it's it's okay.
It feels weird that I'm trying to explain, you know, like it's like,
yeah, Spider-Man three's got way bigger problems.
So it's fine.
It's kind of weird because if you look at this scene on its own, it's kind of beautiful.
But then you remember it's in the same movie as this scene and you get kind of upset.
Anyway, Harry has amnesia now, which as everybody I would say the worst part about
that scene is that it could have been a great villain and then they fuck it up.
Well, yeah, he's he's extremely underdeveloped, like, like, very one dimensional,
like criminally and barely even understand.
He gets fucking barely any lines.
It's just bad.
Also, yeah, Harry getting amnesia is just stupid.
Like, yeah, I even when we watched it, I was like, so what was the point of that?
It's just a delay because they need him to be a villain at a certain point.
Now, which as everybody knows, is probably the worst plot device in the history of storytelling.
Is that a plot device?
It moves the plot.
It sort of stops the plot temporarily.
I suppose you could.
Is that what a device counts as?
It said it pushes plot forward.
Is there another word for stops plot?
I don't know.
Plot bump.
I don't know.
Plot bomb.
Plot.
I like plot.
It's a plot device, you know, that keeps you going forward.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it's fine.
Like, I'm just curious about the actual film criticism language.
I don't know if that's actually how you use it.
He seriously hit his head and forgot.
Oh, yeah, I did laugh at that.
The film, the boy noise like a ball.
I wish I could get hit on the head.
And no, I didn't forget.
The entire last two movies.
That is more than ridiculous.
That is the dumbest thing I've ever heard.
Also, James Franco has gone from being a bad actor to being an insane one.
He got hit my head.
I know that face.
Now, unsurprisingly, Mary Jane is still the worst character in this movie.
I thought you said, I don't know.
He did say he did say, didn't he?
I thought for a second I remembered it as Aunt May was the worst, but no,
he did clarify that Mary Jane was where she's the second worst in the last.
So will she we'll see how she stacks up in this Spider-Man gets attacked all the time.
Isn't about you.
It's about me.
Remember how in the in fairness, the conversation, this is the thing
in Ragsboro, she was talking about seeing her dad in the reviews.
And then he's like, yes, Spider-Man gets criticism.
It's like, dude, dude, come back, come back to reality.
Like, don't, you know, listen to her.
Like, don't make it about yourself.
Yeah.
Like, I admit she's annoying, but that was a completely fair reaction.
I would probably have the same thing.
I'd be like, chill out.
I'm not talking about Spider-Man.
Last movie.
She's like, Hey, I love you.
I'll support your lifestyle.
Yeah.
Well, the first time he has to go out and do Spider-Man stuff, she's like,
Oh, I didn't know this Spider-Man shit was going to be.
Well, it's probably been a while and it's probably not the first time.
So it's kind of wearing her down that he's not there to talk about.
Context, man.
She says, I see my dad in these reviews.
The dad who like is abusive.
Like, this is really important.
I can't believe I'm defending Spider-Man 3.
I feel weird.
Be fair to the film.
Come on.
It's very easy to criticize.
You don't need to, you don't need to make sure.
There's already enough wrong with it.
You don't need to make stuff up.
I'm the next scene is also really funny because we are now
randomly introduced to all the new side characters.
This random ass motherfucker shows up and he's just like,
Oh my God, that's Gwen.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It's it's it's hilarious that you got whatever accident is taking place hits.
Hits Gwen Stacy, who happens to be Peter's co-student in whatever subject he's taking.
And also the girly kisses later on, who's also dating Eddie Brock,
who happens to be on the scene taking photos, who is they're not so gone.
And she's the daughter of the chief of police.
Who's that guy there as well?
It's a bit of a like, wow, that's a lot of everybody who's going to be important to say.
Yeah, it's very contrived.
But I guess they're trying to cram so much into this.
Yeah, yeah, that's how they have to do it.
The way and he just shows up randomly.
Now all things considered Topher Grace's performance is not actually that bad.
I actually really like it.
See, photography, it's not just about no offense, flagpoles, whatever.
It's about lighting.
And it kind of upsets me that people blame him for why this movie sucks.
I've never blamed him.
I've always said he's miscast because I actually like him in that 70s show.
Yeah, yeah, he does.
Yeah, I remember he was in that 70s show.
It's he ain't the only thing.
I'll tell you that like it was a team effort to make this a bad film.
And I think there are scenes where he's he's super like chewing the scenery.
Like as Venom and there's a couple of scenes where it's just a bit awkward.
I don't know, but like I wouldn't say he's flawlessly acting it.
I just wouldn't blame him anyway.
He's actually perfectly playing the jerky, hotheaded foil to Peter Parker.
He's just one of the better parts of the movie when he's not being Venom.
Oh, yeah, I love the bit where he's like, Jesus, will you help me kill Peter Parker?
It's definitely one of his best moments.
When we were watching it, I was like, I don't think it's how Jesus works.
Jesus is one of the people who likes that.
He's a bit against it.
You need to read the Book of Revelations.
That's when he had his eyes.
Yeah, read the not the servant on the Mount.
It's a later one he did.
There's going to be a lot of fire and brimstone, boys.
Jesus.
He's bringing out a sequel to his book.
I would say it's not out of character.
For Jesus.
For Jesus, but, you know, but normally, maybe Jesus was like, finally,
no one's asked me that in years.
I just love the idea that he's actually there.
He says, kill this guy.
Jesus is like, do you know anything about me?
That was back when I was younger.
There was a phase.
There's enough forgiveness, guys.
Yeah, I got it all out of my system with the Jews.
He's just more straightforward.
He just goes, no.
I'm all right.
Thanks.
The symbiote.
He kind of sucks.
Once he turns into Venom, he's just.
I like being bad.
It makes me happy.
See, that's what I was talking about about the acting.
Sorry, I can't.
I can't watch that.
Not love.
Yeah, it's that's some that's some level stuff there.
Ridiculous.
Honestly, if this movie was just about one villain, one fucking dude,
it could have been fine.
Harry's motivations are clearly defined all the way from the first movie,
and he would have made a great villain on his own.
Sandman has a very compelling story,
and the way he ties back to Peter could be interesting if written well.
I don't like how they did that.
I don't like it either.
It was so good the way it was in the first and second.
It was so great.
It was all all there, man.
And then they're like, no, we got to fuck with this one.
And that's their compelling story.
I think it could be compelling, but they rush it.
They're like, he has a daughter, daughter over there, daughter.
He's doing it for the daughter.
Daughter is ill.
Okay.
Daughter, daughter, money, money for daughter, daughter.
No, he's going around like doing terrible, horrible things to random people.
He's clearly going out of his way to be violent when he doesn't need to and hurt people.
His whole thing just falls.
Yeah, I think I think I guess I agree with him.
It just needs more work writing wise to make that to make the Sandman one.
Sandman has a very compelling story and the way he ties back to Peter
could be interesting if written well.
Eddie Brock serves as a great foil to Peter, his narrative opposite.
He represents something that we haven't seen in these movies yet.
A person like Peter Parker, except motivated by his own selfishness instead of selflessness.
I'm okay with that too.
I agree.
I think that maybe that could have made a good movie too.
Yeah.
Any one of these dudes would have been fine.
Making a Spider-Man movie should be so fucking easy,
but most of them suck.
I'm so mad.
Most of them suck?
Most of them suck?
There's only three.
I guess he's talking about the amazing Spider-Man one and two.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Jane gets kicked out of her play because she can't sing for shit,
and she sees Peter swing by and she actually gets mad at him.
Yeah, forget being supportive of the Spider-Man lifestyle now.
Yeah, since he's been jumping out on her and then she loses what actually makes her individual
and he's still got all the fame and appreciation of the people,
which is what she's just lost.
I think you can understand that.
It's pretty straightforward.
Yeah, that's understandable.
That's the scene.
That's the point of the scene.
Yeah, you're not going to hear it and clapping,
and she wants to be cheered for and clapped for at her point.
I don't want to be defending Spider-Man 3, but you're making it so easy.
Man, we're defending Spider-Man 3, man.
Are you actually actively jealous of your own boyfriend?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Jealousy is an emotion.
Humans experience it.
I don't want to add the analysis on here if I finished it off with that.
And for her, acting has been established in prior movies as her passion.
It's what she wants to do.
Yeah, it's not just out of nowhere.
She has even lied to him in the past, acting as if she has been acting.
And she really has been working on another thing.
Was this before or after his kiss as well, by the way?
With the other girl?
I can't remember.
He hasn't covered that yet, so...
Oh, I guess it's before then.
He's running out of time.
I don't know.
He's got three minutes, man.
And then she even has the audacity to get mad.
Oh, there you go.
Kisses.
Oh, yeah, there you go.
She's got to have the audacity to get upset.
He's got to be kidding.
He's got to be kidding.
There's no way if...
Let's do it again.
Let's do it again.
Yeah, just rewind that.
I'm pretty sure he's kidding.
Of her own boyfriend.
And then she even has the audacity to get mad when he
kisses a random girl that he doesn't know right in front of her.
Peter, why did you do that?
Yep, I completely agree.
Good.
It's a moment in the film where it's just like,
that, to me, seems out of character for him,
even if he's on an ego trip.
It's just...
Yeah, especially because they've established so much
how much he cares for her.
You'd think it...
And he just spoke to her.
He just spoke to her.
He was like, hey, you're here.
Look at me.
Yay.
Yo.
This movie's just basically Mary Jane and Peter Parker
being pissy at each other again,
because we haven't seen enough of that.
Because we have the same general storyline
in every single one of these movies.
So now Spider-Man decides to be evil,
and he wears his hair different, and he says bad words.
You'll get your rent when you fix this d**k door.
And everybody likes this.
Why did he sense a d**k?
Because that's the joke.
That's the joke.
Oh, OK.
That he's like...
Oh, I see.
Because he chooses d**k.
Oh, gosh, darn it.
What did you think he was saying?
You'll get your rent when you fix this d**k door.
Wow.
He says an instant jump.
Jesus.
He didn't say that.
That's what I think is funny, though,
is Peter's vision of the most horrible thing you can say
is d**b.
Yeah.
He said...
Good lord, Peter.
He's like, oh, drats.
Oh, the fetal stimulus.
Everyone's favorite part of the movie.
Everybody universally agrees that this is where the movie
really shines.
Now, this movie has a flow, much like the others do.
However, the flow in this movie is f**king insane.
They just have each villain getting kicked out of the story
to make room for another villain.
Harry's the bad guy at the beginning of the movie
until he gets amnesia.
Then Sandman comes in and he's the villain
until Peter murders him.
Then Harry decides not to have amnesia anymore
and he's the villain again.
Then Peter Parker kills Harry Osborne with a bomb
and then Venom is the main villain after that.
This movie is bananas.
Yeah, I agree.
All in all, this is happening.
We don't have any villains.
There's just...
They threw so much...
And the first two movies worked so well with a villain
and now it's like, oh, there's villains everywhere.
There's three of them now.
Also, someone's so wise to use in the Cuphead soundtrack.
I think the idea is that he's...
It's like...
Everything's...
Yeah, it's running so fast.
It's so goofy.
Oh, snicker knuckle.
And yeah, I don't disagree with any of those criticisms.
I'm on board.
Yeah, that's a valid criticism.
This is happening.
We have bad acting.
She...
But she's acting in the film.
Wasn't he referring to...
I think he's referring to him.
Wasn't it part of Tony Maguire's acting?
Which, yeah, it's a bit much for me.
That's it.
I feel like he's really trying to be sad, to convey sadness.
But again, it's very...
You know, does it pull you out of the scene?
For me, I was just focusing on the fact that she's lying.
Yeah.
It's over.
No, please.
And just absolutely hilarious scenes.
I don't know.
Now dig on this.
Oh my.
The last act of this movie rushes a lot faster than you can see.
I love those videos.
Yeah.
Yeah, fair point.
It's funny.
It's pretty rough.
Oh boy, yeah.
Eddie Brock gets the symbiote, and immediately afterwards,
him and Sandman just find each other, wandering the streets.
Then they steal a taxi, kidnap Mary Jane, and build a death trap for Spider-Man.
Wait, did they just randomly find each other?
There's dialogue that Sandman said he's been looking for him,
and that Venom's been looking for him.
They've both been looking for each other to...
Sandman thinks he's Spider-Man, that's who wants to kill him.
And then he's like, oh, you're Venom?
Okay.
And then Venom is like, I've been looking for you because I want to team up.
So...
It is strange, but this whole series has been amazing coincidences, kind of.
Yeah, so it's a coincidence, but that's not...
I mean, it has to happen.
They have a throwaway piece of dialogue to explain why it's
just a little bit less than a coincidence.
It's still a coincidence why I've just been like, it's not ridiculous.
But again, who cares, compared to the other stuff of this film, but fine.
This all happens in the span of a couple minutes.
This movie is so sluggishly paced until the point
where all this shit has to be shoved in immediately.
Oh, and then Peter goes to Harry to recruit him to fight the bad guys.
But Harry is now the Phantom of the Opera and he's sad and he hides in his castle.
But then the butler comes out and says that Spider-Man didn't kill his dad.
I did kind of find that kind of funny.
Yeah, the butler just shows up.
The butler's just like, I happen to know something very important, by the way.
The butler was in the last film, though.
He was in the second one, he wasn't in the first one, though.
Yeah, he was in Spider-Man 2.
But yes, it's a bit convenient that he left it right to the, you know.
I love, by the way, he's in the goblins hideout right now.
Apparently, this butler really is the Alfred to his Green Goblin.
He's just like, yeah.
I gave him to your father's secret evil laboratory to Dustin.
It's awkward that you're a bad guy, but I mean, I'll be your Alfred fine.
I'd prefer it if you were a good guy.
I noticed a lot of blood on that glider when I cleaned it.
I just neglected to mention it two years ago.
I just assumed you'd cut yourself or something.
Yeah, you just you just someone saying he was in the first one, too.
We did watch it recently, and I don't remember him being in the first one.
I don't remember him being in.
It must have been really much.
I'll check.
I am curious.
Ready.
Butler Spider-Man Sam Raimi.
That should have him pop up.
Oh, maybe I was expecting too much.
No results.
Does anyone know his name?
Is it someone's name butler X Maki now?
Is it?
I mean, it is.
It does seem like an ex machina, but it is set up.
I guess we all know why it's happening is to get him into the fight in it.
But yeah, yeah, it's like, how are we going to get him into the fight?
Well, the butler shows up again.
It's a coincidence rather than rather than I mean, it's certainly possible.
I just my issue is like, why the hell did you take so long to tell him about this?
The butler just walks in to the secret green goblin evil supervillain lair
because this is apparently not a shock at all to him.
And he's known the whole time.
And you think you would have saved Harry a lot of grief here.
Oh, there we go.
He's called.
He's called Houseman.
Apparently isn't.
Yeah, he sees he's in Spider-Man one.
I did not know that.
Play by Bill Paxton's dad, apparently.
Oh, wow.
So according to someone in the chat.
Yeah.
He's got pictures with him.
I didn't know that, huh?
But yeah, he's apparently Houseman in Spider-Man one.
I guess he just doesn't have any lines in Spider-Man one.
That might be the case.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, it's just a bit stupid.
Yeah, it's just a bit like my only issue is why the hell do you take so long to tell
me that this is useful information two years ago.
Glad you survived that fucking grenade.
Yeah, the grenades do tend to get less powerful as the films go on.
Is selectively powerful.
Imagine if it was the vaporized grenade.
That'd have been.
I know, right?
It's like we've gone from they vaporize you into a skeleton dust to.
Slightly burn your face.
Hey, man, he was a super soldier.
It makes sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
All right.
And that Spider-Man is innocent.
I loved your father.
Why?
Because I have loved you, Harry.
What?
I'm sorry.
Who are you?
Yeah.
I have to agree.
Who the hell are you?
I totally agree.
He's in like one scene in the second film.
Very briefly, I think he says like a line.
Yeah, he's like I'm leaving for the night or something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And that's it.
I have loved you both.
Wait, what?
Who are you?
This is a funny moment for the climax of this movie when you were younger,
revolves around Peter saving Mary Jane.
Does that sound familiar?
Because it's been the climax in every single one.
You see what I mean when it says it works?
What I will say is that a lot of people criticize Spider-Man Homecoming
because it doesn't put enough people who Peter loves in danger.
I believe it's very much a comic thing that she consistently gets in danger.
Someone's going to have to clarify that.
But that is the person, his love interest.
The Green Goblin found out.
Dr. Octopus found out.
And of course, these guys steal here for that specific reason.
Like, it's easy for the audience to understand and to relate to.
Like, it's easy to understand Spider-Man's motivations
if he has to save someone he loves and the audience can relate to it.
So it's, you know, it's, it's better than just some random stranger.
Yeah.
And, and again, like they're doing it on purpose.
They're trying to bait him out.
Yeah.
So, I mean, you could argue, yes, they've done it one too many times,
but who else are they supposed to do it?
I mean, they did Aunt May in the second one, didn't they?
They did, yes.
So they can't do her again.
She's old, she's stuck on the hips for it.
Like, you got to let, you got to let Mary Jane get captured again.
Say these movies are all the same.
I don't even care.
It's so funny.
Four out of 10, really bad, but I like it.
I'm confused.
Did he say six, seven and four, but yet they're all pretty much as good as each other?
Was that something he said or am I just imagining that?
He didn't, he just said it, didn't he?
Yeah, he kind of.
Six, seven and four.
Just rewind it like 10 seconds.
I'm pretty sure he just says, he just said they're all the same.
I think.
Well, like just now, should I draw it back a bit?
I think he did.
I think he did just say it, yeah.
I don't even care.
It's so funny.
Four out of 10, really bad, but I like it.
And that Spider-Man is innocent.
I loved your father.
You know you kind of look like him.
I loved you, Harry.
I'm sorry, who are you?
So the climax of this movie revolves around Peter saving Mary Jane.
Does that sound familiar?
Because it's been the climax in every single one of these movies.
I guess he's saying that this is the climax in every film.
I don't think he's saying that.
But I just want to say this again.
I think the butler wanted a climax in this film.
Leave that poor man alone.
He needs to leave Harry alone.
That is half his moment.
I have been cleaning your boss for years.
I don't even care.
There he goes.
He said, you see what I mean when I say these movies are all the same.
What does that mean, though?
Do we know what that means?
So I mean, he's saying that because the endings are,
you know, the same, they use that same device.
He's using that to make a more general point.
That they're all kind of the same.
I mean, this is the thing.
Yeah, I guess so.
For me, Spider-Man 2 and 3 are just leagues apart in terms of the quality.
I would come in here and dust off your father's balls.
Stop it, rags.
10, really bad, but I like it anyway.
I don't feel so good.
Good meme.
If you ask me, I'll play these movies.
Honestly, I'm surprised that he didn't go into how terrible Sandman was.
I don't know.
There's a lot you didn't cover.
This is the problem.
He had half the video for one film and then half a video for two films.
And this is what happens.
He doesn't have enough time.
You know how people say like I go on for too long?
I would say the reverse for this.
He's not gone on long enough.
Yeah, there's a lot more he could have said or elaborated on.
I'd much rather you went until you said everything you feel you need to say.
For your point.
Yes, I would rather have it elaborated too much than four out of 10.
Really bad, but I like it anyway.
Why did my tears not turn me into mud?
I don't understand.
That's actually a good point because I made a sound.
I guess.
Sad details.
That makes sense.
The glass.
Honestly, do make a pretty decent trilogy.
People say Spider-Man 3 is the worst one, but if you watch all of them back to back,
it really doesn't feel that much different from the other.
Literally, we did that.
We did that.
Oh my God.
We did that.
They are so different from each other.
First one's solid.
Second one's great.
Third one's terrible.
That's how I felt about it.
Second and third.
Yeah.
Back to back.
And man, the third one was shit.
Jay said,
Balla will not rest until all YouTube videos are several hours long.
It's a quest.
This is true.
Flooding YouTube with content.
Nobody will have any time to watch anyone's creator.
What is it?
600 hours uploaded every minute.
Half of that's yours.
Yes.
That's the future we all need.
That's the goal.
So yeah, my opinion hasn't really changed.
I prefer the new movies, but at the same time, I can still enjoy these movies for what they are.
Because even when they're bad, they aren't as bad as the Amazing Spider-Man 2,
even though I've never seen it.
And I'm never going to see it.
You guys are never going to get me.
I guess he wasn't referring to.
No, he's done a video of the Amazing Spider-Man 1 and 2.
Well, if that was, he just said he hasn't seen it.
I'm assuming he's going to go on to see it from here.
No, I think this is a joke.
Oh, okay.
Go watch that movie.
Because it's not going to happen in a million years.
Maybe some other time.
Bye, guys.
Yeah, it was a joke because he then does do a video on the Amazing Spider-Man 1 and 2.
All right, then. We did it.
Yeah.
We did it for it in less than six hours.
For real.
So, got a whole bunch of details wrong to sell scenes to be worse than they were.
That's probably the biggest criticism I have.
Completely unfocused.
I have no idea what the hell he was really going for in this video, other than...
Did you have this?
Was it just entertainment?
Was he like, I just wanted to just have a bit of fun?
It's like, okay.
Editing was pretty good, I think.
Most things were relevant.
And he had a couple of jokes that I think were good.
And then...
Yeah, a couple appropriate memes thrown in.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, there's some good stuff in here.
Yeah, that is fine.
It's just fine.
I just think that the whole point of the title is worse than you remember,
but they made the first and second look better than I remember.
And it makes me appreciate them even more.
And then he praises the third one for reasons and he puts them on the same level.
Like, if you watch them all three consecutively and we watch the first one,
and then I think the next day we watch the second and third back to back.
So we were really...
I mean, like we watched them basically consecutively.
Yeah, we gave it the best shot.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And the third one really stood out as being crap.
There's a reason so many people hate it.
Yeah, absolutely.
There's a lot wrong with it.
There's loads of ways you can take it down.
There's loads of different ways you can sort of break down the...
Because there's issues that spread through the film.
One of the biggest things people always reference is the three villains.
And it's not just that there's three villains.
It's the fact that they get so spread thin and there's nothing to connect with.
And you realize all the fixes being involved.
As he pointed out very correctly, they knock the villains out because they're getting in the way.
They can't...
We don't know what to do with them.
Put them in the fridge, you know?
Put Harry in amnesia land.
Put Sandman in the water.
It's like, I don't know what to do.
Yeah.
I feel there's a lot of clickbait here.
Well, I mean, I'll go out and say, like, I think it's a bad video overall.
I think it's a bad video.
Yeah.
It's not a good video.
It's... We got a lot here that just...
I don't even know what the hell he's trying to say with a lot of it.
But there's some things to appreciate, I suppose.
It's kind of like the Spider-Man 3 of YouTube videos like this.
Some good bits for mostly terrible, yeah.
Someone did say that he does clarify something about the video in here.
So let's see if we can find it.
But then I remembered that there's a Spider-Man movie that I haven't seen.
And of course, I've heard terrible things about it.
Every film critic on YouTube has already talked about this movie.
But I kind of just got here and I didn't get to talk about it, so I want my turn.
I am of course talking about Amazing Spider-Man 2.
However, there is one movie that came out before that.
A movie that I have seen once when it came out.
So before we start, I have a quick thing to address about my last video
because it comes into play when reviewing these movies.
Lots of people seem to mistake me teasing the campiness of the Sam Raimi trilogy
as a bad thing.
I said many times that I like how campy these movies are.
I wholeheartedly believe that the corniness was intentional on Sam Raimi's part.
My point was that the campiness is more of a product of the time
and this level of comic book silliness stands out by today's standards.
But overall, I like it.
But that makes them good.
I'm confused how you... I don't understand now.
Yeah, right.
So he's saying they're not as good by today's standards.
That's what he's saying.
Well, I think they're better because of today's standards.
But who watches... I don't understand.
When we go and see old films, we don't immediately go like...
It's like, what?
Mickey Rooney, you can't do that.
You're old. You're dead.
You know, like, it's weird.
I would actually argue it's less...
I wouldn't say that it's like, oh, we can't...
Today's standards, this doesn't work.
It's like, I think you could release a campy film.
Yeah, the question for the exact content was way better than it is now.
There are still campy films that come out.
It's literally just about tone.
You just have to be consistent and portray it to your audience.
As long as you get that done, you can release camp at any time.
People may or may not enjoy it,
but as long as you nail the actual intentions, then you're fine.
This is why I'm confused.
I'm just like, you recognize that it's camp,
but you're saying it's bad for now for this to be watched?
I don't know.
Well, it's weird.
Sometimes he's saying it's good because it's camp,
but sometimes he seems to be saying it's bad because it's camp.
My take on this is, it's consistently campy,
but that doesn't work for now,
which to me is like, I don't understand.
There's plenty of things that are campy that work now.
Like you watch old campy stuff.
Isn't the whole point of being camp part of the fact that it doesn't work?
Like a big part of camp is that it's camp because of the fact you're watching it out of time.
Well, it's self-awareness.
It knows what it is.
It's almost like it's playing off of satire in a way.
And yeah, I'm just curious here because like I'm looking for some kind of definition.
A camp movie is the unintentional hilarity of an inner story gone wildly or
awry for others.
Best camp movies are those in which the camp is intentionally baked in from the beginning.
So this is kind of, I think, where I'm coming from.
It's deliberate as he's just admitted.
It's tonally consistent, so there's nothing wrong.
But he's saying like, by today's standards, like,
no, those standards are still around today.
You can still make something campy today as long as you're very consistent and clear about it.
As long as it's good.
But then you can get films that are campy as a result of being pushed from the time
they were created to now, which I don't think that's one of these.
This film was very much doing this by design as he's just agreed with.
So yeah, mostly confused.
I'm just, I'm not, I'm not convinced that it's right to judge these films based on today's
standards considering that superhero movies have evolved since this was released.
And because this was released.
And this was very much intentional.
And it's not, it's not like someone I intentionally made the entire screen blurry.
It's like, you wouldn't go, oh, well, that's good then.
Because I'm saying like, it's tonally consistent.
He's going for very, very comic book, child friendly aspects of the lines that you don't,
it's the same logic as like, you don't go,
why did Team Rocket say we're blasting off again when they fly into the sky?
That doesn't make sense.
Looks like Team Rocket's blasting off again.
It's like, if this stuff was present in the dark night, that's, that's where I'd be like,
yeah, that's a fair point.
It's very tonally inconsistent.
I'd be confused, but this is, this whole film is just, that's what it does.
And I still think it works today.
Me and Rags watched it recently.
And I said, I still stand by that if Spider-Man 2 came out recently,
I think it still works very much so.
Oh yeah.
I mean, I haven't seen it in years and years and watching it again.
Was it yesterday that we finished them?
I think it was the day before yesterday.
All right.
Watching a couple of days ago, I was like, man, this is good.
Yeah, I think, I think definitely two still holds up.
And three, like you said earlier, three, you can't really say it holds up because it was bad back then.
Yeah, that's why it's so odd that he focused so little time on the best movie
and the worst movie.
And he did a lot of, I mean, I say this hesitantly, I'd have to make sure,
but I feel like he did a lot of just explaining the plot of the first one.
And that's what padded out a lot of it.
Or mis-explaining it.
Yeah, that too.
And there's a lot, I still, I just harken back to the whole, like, I could nitpick.
I could do this, then he nitpicks.
You're like, okay.
He does.
And then he got it, I had it accurate as well.
But I'll just make sure we absorb this segment and see if there's anything else.
I wholeheartedly believe that the corniness was intentional on Sam Raimi's part.
My point was that the campiness is more of a product of the time.
And this level of comic book silliness stands out by today's standards.
I don't think so.
I like the campiness.
Okay, okay, okay.
He says that he's saying that it stands out.
The title of the video is literally worse than you can eat, worse than you remember.
Yeah.
So if that is his criticism, then he's using it to say that the films are, yeah,
worse than we remember.
And I was about to say, in fairness, whether or not it stands out is totally subjective.
I realized that it's just like, yeah, you know, when you watch it, if it fucking,
if it jumps out at you, fair enough.
But like I said, as long as they're consistent and it's intentional,
what's the problem?
And as you just said, worse than you can, I'm sorry.
Yeah, I'm getting confused with this title as well.
Worse than you remember, I think it is, yeah.
He is using it to say that they are worse.
So how can he then turn around and say, oh, it's, you know, they're not bad because I can't be.
It just seems to contradict what he said.
Very, very, I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm very confused.
And the video like got quite a, it's 89,000 likes up to 46,000 down.
So it's like, a lot of people are very unhappy.
Yeah, I can see why.
And I'm assuming it's because the message came across as these movies are much worse than you
you remember.
I think they got that from the title.
I would assume that's yeah.
So that's pretty much the complete take of that.
I'm still of the opinion that Spider-Man 2 is very, very good.
So good.
And Spider-Man 3 is pretty bad.
It's Spider-Man 1 is strong, but it's got flaws, sure.
I hope everybody watching goes and rewatches the second Spider-Man film,
because it is legitimately good.
Yes.
Legitimately.
Go do it.
Go, I guess, check the super chats.
I was going to say, if you guys want to go to the toilet or anything, are you happy to
tackle another video?
Because I've got one prepared.
Yeah, sure.
I am going to have to bail after a little while, but yeah, I'm happy to go on.
How long do you reckon you got?
Just so I know.
Hour and a bit, maybe.
Hour and a bit.
I'll take it.
We've got one we've been asked to cover for a while.
It's one about plot holes.
I'll have to get the link.
But the theory was that a lot of people thought that Patrick Willems stole parts of his ideas
from this video.
It's only got 2,000 views.
I'm not sure if that's the case.
I haven't seen it.
But it's another video saying the plot holes don't really matter as far as I know.
So that'll be...
Oh, joy.
And it's perfect, because we've all...
CJ's got a video where we went after Patrick Willems like we did.
See, it's poetry.
It's like it rhymes.
It's a fight.
Yeah, I'll read some of these out.
Okay.
Action.
Where was I?
Only hipsters will hate Raimi's trilogy.
Raimi Spider-Man made me love...
Oh, yeah.
How's the TFA critique coming and joining the Efab?
All the updates are very explicit on Patreon.
But I mean, the quick vision would be I'm nearly done with part one,
which is two hours and nearly 40 minutes.
It's like a movie.
It's fully edited.
And I'm trying to figure out exactly what I'm going to be doing next.
I'll be asking questions on Twitter and Patreon for what people really want to
do and see.
But I understand there's been a drought on my channel, and I apologize for that.
Obviously, I'm just working on something that's probably going to be the best thing I make for a
long time.
It's spent a lot of time editing this one.
So it's got to be good, you know?
And so it's coming.
And we'll figure more about that as time goes on.
There's a special place in hell for those who hate Raimi's Aunt May.
I mean, it just seems a little bit mean.
It's like, well, I thought she did.
She has a really great acting moments.
And she's just the rock for Peter to always come back to the family member.
Seems weird.
Norman's death is funny specifically, because his head drops immediately.
It's a bit silly.
Honestly, I still like it.
I guess I could see it both ways, because I am taken a little bit with the fact that he says
the line that implies he really is kind of ashamed of what he'd become.
He doesn't want his son to find out, you know, what's your opinion of Spider-Man 3?
Just curious.
I thought it was pretty terrible.
I think Rags is the same on that.
And I think Chris is the same on that as well.
It's bad.
Spider-Man 3's theme is about revenge, redemption, and inner conflict.
I think, you know, there's a lot of themes going on in that film, I would argue.
A lot of stuff about morality and the theme of ruining a trilogy.
Spider-Man 3 had too many villains like the Dark Knight and Infinity War.
Infinity War didn't have it.
It only got the one villain.
I mean, it's got like sub-villains, I suppose you could call them.
Also, Dark Knight had multiple villains.
Oh, I guess it had Two-Face, but I mean, it's pretty focused on the Joker.
Why didn't he mention Ebert's opinion on Spider-Man 2?
Because that would have gotten in the way.
This is the worst nitpicking fake analysis ever.
We're pretty much on a similar page.
Major and his daddy issues, it makes sense.
Yep.
gagreel shows Raimi giving directions to the actor who did JJ.
Clearly, JJ is a character by Raimi not made up by an actor who played Clap to Raimi.
I'm sure it's a product of not just the actor and the writing as well,
because it's very well put together.
The best part of Spider-Man 3 is Bruce Campbell.
Absolutely.
The French thing is ridiculous.
That's probably offensive now, thinking about it.
I'd give a shit what the fraud is.
Watch this TLJ video, he doesn't take a side.
I mean, we have been asked to watch that one.
I still haven't seen it.
Mary Jane Watson is just being human.
I'm Patrick Willems and I approve this message.
Oh yeah? Would he not take a side in the Holocaust?
Is that what Last Jedi is to you, Rags?
You hyperbolic,
pisser dog.
How dare you?
Six million down votes.
Molar, I may be alone in this.
Be a Predator review is my favorite video of yours.
Must have watched it 32 times by now.
Glad you enjoyed it.
That film was ridiculously awful.
Pizza time.
Spider-Man 1 with great power comes great responsibility.
Spider-Man 2, you have to give your dreams up for the greater good.
Spider-Man 3, forgiveness, redemption, and inner conflict.
Spider-Man Homecoming, I don't feel so good, Daddy Stack.
It's an interesting way to summarize it.
As a fad of Raimi, they're all the same, but good.
One, two, three.
I just think the two is way better than three.
And there's so much to talk about for breaking down why in terms of structure.
Why aliens are even considered strange in fiction.
We know less than 1% of our galaxy, let alone universe.
There's plenty of space for any writer.
Won't catch me disagreeing.
I guess he's saying there's a bit much to throw on with the rest of the stuff in the film.
Also aliens.
Uh, the dance scene makes perfect sense.
If I'm that confident, I'll do it.
At the point, uh, Black Venom Soup Pizza not giving a fuck at all.
I mean, I don't think anyone says it doesn't make sense.
It's more just hilarious.
So silly, yeah.
Raimi Spider-Man competed with Star Wars.
Oh yeah, it would have come out at a similar time, wouldn't it?
2002 was Star Wars Episode 2, I actually think.
Because 99 was Phantom Menace, 2002 was, yeah.
What were their release dates?
Oh, I don't know.
Similar years, let's just say.
Next Dark Knight trilogy is worse than you remember.
I could see him making that.
That could happen.
I'd watch 300 hours of Mauler doing his accents.
Green Goblin from...
Green Goblin from Spider-Man Q?
Spider-Man.
When high intelligent people go mad, they talk like Green Goblin from Spider-Man 1.
I mean, I didn't have a problem with it.
I just thought it was Willem Dafoe losing his mind, which is what it is, so.
Raimi balanced perfectly comedy and drama between fiction and realism,
just like the O.T. of the Star Wars, only hipster can see part of it.
One and two are better than Homecoming and Karmic Accurate.
Again, I wouldn't know.
I haven't read the comics, unfortunately.
New fap for work tomorrow morning.
How the fuck did you get Chief from My Name, Last Efe?
What? Hang on.
How the fuck did you get Chief from My Name, Last Efe app?
And Google does not like the no-no word.
Oh, Saint Chef?
Did I really read that as Chief?
That I may have been, you know...
No, he said, Chief.
Chief.
Okay.
I have no idea.
I had an idea.
The Star Wars fans should have an online summit
in order to elect an alternative canon out of the Lucas movies
and select quality EU stories, thoughts.
Canon only means what it means to you in terms of like,
there's the official canon.
There's canon in your mind.
There's canon of what's been decanonized.
It's very, very complicated.
But for me, it's just whoever owns the IP
and makes more stuff in it.
I suppose that's the continued story.
But thank you all very much for the generous donations.
Are you folks ready for that other video?
If I can find it, give me a moment.
We still know what it is.
Yeah, I'm intrigued now.
I'll have to go on my YouTube history
because I'm pretty sure I pulled it up.
It's going to be...
I mean, Patrick Willems did a pretty good one.
So I'm sure this one's going to be a great follow up, right?
You guys just don't seem very optimistic about it.
I don't know.
Yeah, it's called Why Plot Holes Don't Matter.
Okay, right.
Which is, you know, a part of what Patrick says,
but it's not quite what he titled it.
He said, shut up about plot holes, which...
That went well, didn't it?
Monty Python Holy Grail, two campies.
You're out of town.
Yeah, that's kind of what I'm getting at.
Nobody watches Monty Python Holy Grail
says I can't really get into this because it's too...
Well, they can say it,
but it wouldn't be anything beyond subjective
that they pulled out.
Why plot holes don't matter.
So you guys all good to go?
You're a plot host, don't matter.
We've never...
I don't think we've covered someone this small
in terms of YouTubers.
Do we need to say that we don't endorse
kicking down their door and blowing their head off?
No, don't hate on the dude.
Don't be mean.
It doesn't matter what he says.
Don't be mean.
Well, I don't know about that.
Oh, well, I mean, if he says like...
I will say don't be mean.
I will say that I will make my judgment.
I will say that I give as I get.
And I'm going to say,
let's just watch the movie and be happy.
Okay, they're nice and happy.
Lord of the Rings.
My God, after a grand total of seven rewrites,
11 months of thinking and a great many hours
spent slamming my head into the keyboard,
hoping words will miraculously coalesce.
I'm actually sure if the TFA video has been 11 months,
it's been since the TFA rage.
That's where you could count it from.
So it's coming up to half a year, I think,
or more than that.
Yeah, but this is 17 minutes.
Well, it's going to be a fucking good 17 minutes then,
isn't it?
11 months since having rewrites.
Let's do it.
That's from the clumps of gibberish
that my forehead just bashed into existence.
I bring you the final script in video form
for what is definitely the hardest thing
I've ever tried to explain.
Ladies and gentlemen, are you religious?
Because I'd like to introduce you to my religion.
It's called plot holes do not matter.
And it is very aptly titled.
Oh, man, I'm just like,
what argument are you going to have?
This is not going to work.
Yeah, like we already
read this argument for we know it's shit.
It's a religion.
It doesn't need documents.
Kind of sad to hear that he's like,
this is my religion.
I spent seven rewrites in 11 months
on what we know is going to be a shitty fucking point.
If he's actually setting up,
this is going to be faith based to be like,
oh, okay, let's let's see.
Wait a second.
You spent seven rewrites in 11 months
and you put a space between the apostrophe
and the T and don't.
Rags is such a nitpicker.
He's just like just these arguments.
He just says mean things about people.
My God.
Yeah, that is weird.
I might just that actually might just be
the lettering differences,
but it does look like a space.
Why plot holes don't matter.
Why plot holes don't matter.
I hate to be that guy who leads off with an anecdote,
but this video is impossible to structure.
So sue me.
When I was in ninth grade,
after we had finished reading the most dangerous game,
the short story by Richard Connell,
we were discussing the slightly ambiguous ending
of the story and how the use of the term
on guard at the end implies
that the characters fought with swords.
Where did they get the swords?
It's on guard as an E.N.
I believe it is on guard.
Yeah, it's not a thing.
ARDE, I think.
Yeah, it is G-A-R-D-E, right?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
I guess it does translate to that in English.
Yeah.
Would that be true?
I'm guessing it's true.
Video sucks already.
Wow, such a-
Anyway, anyway.
Characters fought with swords.
Where did they get the swords?
I wondered aloud.
And then immediately,
my teacher turned to me and said,
that's what you're worried about?
You're fine with the character
who became so good at hunting animals
that he decided to hole up in a chateau
on an island and hunt human beings instead,
but you're hung up on where they got the swords.
It made me stop and think
because it was basically a direct-
Well, even if I got a shitty teacher,
maybe there was a reason for why they had this.
Because I read the book too,
but, or the story too,
but it was a long time ago
and I don't remember it.
I think it's depending on the context,
that could be a very valid question.
Yeah.
Yeah, that could be a valid question.
But it also could be valid to say
why you're concerned with a smaller plot hole
compared to a huge plot hole.
If that's the case, I have no idea.
Maybe.
Comparison of what some might consider a plot hole
to the reason we should be fine
with plot holes in the first place.
I, like so many others who read
and enjoyed the most dangerous game,
was perfectly willing to accept
the absurdity of what was occurring
because of a little thing
called suspension of disbelief.
Stories are often-
No, but I could believe that.
I could believe-
You guys know the story.
Oh, I've never heard of this story.
I'm unaware.
This dangerous game is basically
about this old creepy guy
who lives on an island
and he lures ships to crash into the island
so that he can hunt them down
because humans are the most dangerous game
and they must escape from him
as he gets his thrills
by hunting them down on the island.
So he could have brought a sword
to the island
or he could have got one
from one of the ships.
Yeah, correct.
So there's plenty of good explanations, so.
Yeah, I don't remember.
For example, Harry has daggers
in his room in Spider-Man.
I just be like,
I didn't need to know what I saw him.
I can believe that.
So, you know, are we going to say
that he shouldn't be concerned
with those questions
because there is an answer.
Is that his point?
But sometimes that is a legitimate question.
I think his point is just that
he asked at the time
and that got him thinking about it.
Yeah, I think he's going to come
to a conclusion
about how none of it matters maybe.
Red, enjoyed the most dangerous game,
was perfectly willing to accept
the absurdity of what was occurring
because of a little thing
called suspension of disbelief.
Stories are often concerned
with showing us the spectacular
or showing us mundanity
in a highly entertaining way.
In order to be engaging,
stories tend to tackle the impossible,
the improbable,
and the other extremes of reality.
And we want to enjoy stories.
So, suspending our disbelief
of these extremes
is kind of the price of entry.
That's just how...
Why would we need to...
There's a lot there.
Yeah, I would say that
there's nothing in like
Star Wars that I couldn't...
Well, he said like extremes.
Extreme things happen in real life.
Like, I'm confused a little bit there.
I'm going to let it go.
There's a limit to suspension of belief though,
but he's probably going to elaborate on that.
I'm assuming this is all
going towards some other point,
so we'll just wait for that one, I think.
Our works.
Stories operate with givens.
They'll give us information,
such as in this world,
dueling with laser swords
is a viable way to go about fighting.
Or there are giant naked monsters
that eat people
and soldiers kill them
with grappling hooks and swords.
Even simple stuff like
the main character is eccentric
and weird in this particular way.
If you're not willing to buy into that,
then the story cannot operate.
But if you're familiar with the concept
of suspension of disbelief,
then you're probably familiar
with the idea that it can be broken.
Something within the narrative
will trigger a reaction.
Why did you play that clip?
That was from Code Geass as well.
Yeah, he played the cathedral scene
from Cowboy Bebop.
I don't know.
It feels like these are just clips from fiction
is kind of what he's going to watch.
Both of those animals.
You do.
Even though I haven't seen Cowboy Bebop.
So why is it relevant
that he's playing those clips?
Well, the Code Geass clip is him using
his geass on someone which basically
when he uses a geass on someone,
they'll do anything that he says.
He says suspension of disbelief is broken.
So there's probably something there
that you can connect,
but it's a bit weird.
Alright, okay.
I have no idea why he would.
Obviously, the Matrix clip works
because it's coming out of the Matrix.
You come out of the suspension of disbelief.
Yeah, I can see something there.
Okay, let's see where he's going with this.
Suspension of disbelief.
Then you're probably familiar
with the idea that it can be broken.
Something within the narrative
will trigger a reaction in your mind
that will take you out of the story
and make you unwilling to dive back in.
But what does this?
What breaks suspension of disbelief?
Ask most people,
and they'll hit you with
that classic logical argument.
If the story doesn't make logical sense,
or in other words, if there's plot holes,
then it breaks suspension of disbelief
and ruins the experience.
Inconsistency is what I say.
Yeah.
And this applies to literally everything.
So that's accuracy,
will-building characters,
like just everything.
Even when things appear
to be inconsistent in the real world,
we know that something's wrong,
and we stop and have to reanalyze.
And it's not like I'm saying,
there needs to be 10.
Once there's 10, I'm out.
It's literally no,
it can be whatever because it's just me.
And for you guys, it'll be different.
For everyone else, it'll be different.
Is it just inconsistency though?
Or is it that there isn't a
logical or causal chain between events?
Well, there's a difference between
like a plot hole and like a contrivance.
Well, contrivance is unlikely, isn't it?
Yeah, well, a plot hole's impossible.
Whereas a plot hole is meant to be impossible.
Yes.
Yeah.
Basically.
So what will be an example of a time
would be pulling you out of the film,
but it's not about consistency,
out of curiosity.
Because that's what I'm trying to say is,
I wouldn't call it being logical.
I would call it being consistent.
Because it can't be illogical,
but consistent.
Oh yeah, yeah.
All right.
See where he's going with this.
But this doesn't really add up.
Because there are popular,
highly regarded,
critically acclaimed stories out there
that are so riddled with logical errors
and things that don't make sense
that it would be almost funny if it mattered.
Some of these plot holes are-
They do matter to some people.
It depends.
Yeah, they do.
Yeah, that's their opinion.
It just depends.
I hate to say the word context,
but I'm probably going to say that
like throughout this whole thing.
But if somebody doesn't feel like a plot hole
ruins it for them,
then they will have a higher,
they'll think more high of the film.
And this is why discussion is good.
So when people say like Patrick Willems,
where he referenced how people say that
it's a plot contrivance
that it's so easy to knock out the Death Star.
It's like that it's accepted.
It's like, oh, hang on.
There's things to discuss there.
Like it doesn't, it's not definitive.
And the idea that it's like,
if we all accepted that
that was a plot contrivance,
then therefore you can't enjoy Star Wars, right?
If you have a problem with logical inconsistencies
with other films, it's like, well,
it's about how big and how many as well.
Yeah.
It's a complicated,
to try and lock it down to one statement.
It's pretty difficult considering
there's so much difference
in all these different pieces of media.
I'm surprised this guy hasn't had a copyright claim
from all the Lord of the Rings music.
And I agree with some of the people in the chairs.
It's like, this Lord of the Rings music
is a bit distracting sometimes.
It's just like sort of blah.
He might not copyright strike,
but the film's still up.
He just doesn't make revenue from it.
A content idea idea.
Yeah, it's claimed.
Which means we might get that on this episode,
which will be fun.
But hey,
as long as it's still up, we'll be fine.
Which you can fight and win, but yeah.
True.
True.
They're kind of famous.
Lord of the Rings.
Why don't they just use the Eagles?
They could.
Because of the Nazgol.
Because of the Nazgol and the Eye of Sauron.
I was going to say Wolf and Maddie
and many others have provided
a lot of counter arguments for that.
You've got to exploit.
You can't just say it's definitive.
But yeah.
Well, the Eagles don't like to get involved
generally, do they?
I can't remember if they...
They get involved for a little bit in the Hobbit,
but then they go,
no, this is as far as we're going to take you.
It's not definitively stated,
but they do try to imply
because they only arrive once.
Because they do attack the Nazgol.
They have a little bit of a war in the skies
just before Sauron's destroyed.
And then once Sauron is destroyed,
they come and pick up these two,
which the implication being
they would get ripped apart
if they were to come in before then.
Yeah, maybe.
This is everyone's go-to plot hole as well.
Yeah, this is one of the most.
I don't consider that an actual plot hole.
For me, it's murky.
I don't think it's definitive.
I would need more dialogue
just to shove it away,
but I don't think it's a definitive contradiction
because there's stuff to infer.
It's a bit complicated.
But yeah, I wouldn't reference this
for like a definitive plot hole.
There's better ones.
Just use the Eagles.
There's no explanation as to why they could...
For example, have you guys seen Looper?
I have.
So the whole...
Oh, Looper.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
The premise being these Loopers exist
because you can't kill people in the future.
You have to send them back in time
to be killed to subvert whatever system
they have in the future.
And then the entire conflict of the film begins
because someone's killed in the future.
If you remember, the wife is just casually murdered
and it's like,
wait, guys, that's supposed to be impossible
in the future.
I was like, okay, whatever.
Apparently, you could just do that.
Sorry, I haven't actually seen the film,
but isn't it that people think that it's impossible?
Well, it's just said that that's why
the Looper system exists
is because you can't kill people.
You have to send them back in time to kill them,
which, to be honest,
that raises some questions anyway.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because how does that work?
Sounds tricky.
Use the Eagles.
Why does everyone just forget
about the One Ring when a Sildar dies?
Why did the Trolls...
They didn't forget about it.
They just couldn't find it.
Yeah, I don't think anyone knew about it, really.
And then it says at the beginning of the fellowship,
it passed into legend and then myth.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't mean it was buried
under some of the murky water.
Thousands of years past.
And he would have floated on in that river for a while.
So if you go,
oh, it's going to be where his body is.
Like, there's a lot of stitches to do.
And that's if you're aware of it,
which I don't think they were.
So yeah, I'm a bit of a strange one.
Talk in the Hobbit, but not in the original trilogy.
How was...
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Let's go back.
Why did the Trolls talk in the Hobbit,
but not in the original trilogy?
Well, that doesn't mean they can't talk in the original.
They just didn't talk.
Who didn't talk?
He's saying that it's weird that the Trolls talk in the Hobbit,
but they don't talk in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.
But the thing is...
The only ones we see, though,
in the Lord of the Rings trilogy
are the ones that have been brutalized.
Yeah, and they're under control,
if I remember correctly.
Sauron's got them under control.
And they don't speak in the books, either.
They speak in the Hobbit,
but they don't speak in Lord of the Rings books.
And we could talk about how the Hobbit is
more of a kid's story than Lord of the Rings is.
I don't know if that fact is it,
but then there's the other fact of,
is that a Hobbit problem,
or is that a Lord of the Rings problem?
And I don't even think it's a problem.
No, I don't think it's a problem, either.
Because they were under Sauron's control,
while those guys were just wandering around getting food.
They're just animators.
Basically, they're not the same as the Trolls
that live in the mountains.
Also, that's another thing, isn't it?
Like, you get cave Trolls,
mountain Trolls, whatever Trolls.
Yeah, they're all different forest Trolls.
Exactly, not all Trolls are the same.
Hashtag the whole Trolls.
Spider.
Despite all these gla-
Troll eyes matter.
Sorry, let's go back a bit.
Gollum originally planning on getting into Mordor
before he changed his mind
and decided to send Frodo to the Spider.
Despite all these-
Speaking around.
Sorry, I'm missing the point there.
Why does everyone just forget about the One Ring
when a Sildar dies?
Why do the Trolls talk in the Hobbit,
but not in the original trilogy?
How was Gollum originally planning
on getting into Mordor before he changed his mind
and decided to send Frodo to the Spider?
Well, I guess the point would have been
that they would sneak through Shelob.
Well, did they tell him
that they were trying to get into Mordor?
Or just get to Mordor?
Well, he's-
Hang on.
He takes them to the Black Gate
and then they try and get in
and he's like,
guys, what the fuck are you doing?
We're going around.
Well, he's-
It's a secret path.
I can't remember.
But the thing is, he's implying here
that the only way to Curith Ungol
and eventually Mordor
was to go through Shelob's lair,
but Gollum took them through there
after deciding he wanted to kill them.
It wasn't necessarily
that there was no other way
that you could have literally climbed
over Shelob's lair
or gone by the side.
We don't know
because Gollum's goal is to kill them
at that point.
He's implying that you had to go
through Shelob's lair
and even if so,
Gollum knows how to get through there safely
because he does.
And Frodo nearly does.
Right.
So, yeah, I don't think that's a weird one.
Seven rewrites.
Despite all these glaring logical errors,
Lord of the Rings is still upheld as a-
They're not glaring logical errors.
You said you shouldn't have started out
by saying seven rewrite.
And not only that,
even if these were legitimate
glaring logical errors,
there are plenty of people
who would say
they would have gotten pulled out thanks
that there probably are people
who said they got pulled out Lord of the Rings
because of these things.
If they understood them this way.
Yeah.
And there are people who think
that something is a plot hole,
even if it isn't,
then it can still take away from the film.
And it's weird,
because this is the same logic
that Patrick Willems did use.
He said that there's that plot hole
in Alien with the acid,
but yet Alien is considered a classic film.
But it's like, okay, what?
Not a plot hole.
Two, even if that were a plot hole,
that doesn't destroy the entire film.
The presence of a singular plot hole
does not now mean you are the same
as a film with 100 plot holes.
It's not the same.
No.
A must-watch masterpiece of cinema.
And with good reason,
Lord of the Rings is great,
and the alternate opinion is extremely rare.
But if suspension of disbelief
in the story is so easily and commonly broken,
how are these movies enjoyable at all?
Wait, hold on.
That's complicated.
There's a huge difference
between being able to enjoy something
and pointing out its flaws.
And also, the fact that it has flaws
doesn't mean that it's not enjoyable.
Yeah.
I think there is a difference.
I mean, suspension of disbelief
is very subjective.
You can point out every single thing wrong
with The Last Jedi,
and there are plenty of people
who won't be affected by it,
and that's fine,
because that's how it works.
Is there anybody who's legitimately
saying that they think
that Lord of the Rings is shit,
and they don't enjoy it
because of their eagles thing?
There's gotta be someone?
There's probably someone
on the internet, but not many.
Maybe.
Yeah.
Maybe, but not many.
If it's possible, it's happened.
That's one of the laws.
I can't remember whose law is.
The laws of the internet, yeah.
Reason.
Lord of the Rings is great,
and the alternate opinion
is extremely rare.
But if suspension of disbelief
in the story is so easily
and commonly broken,
how are these movies
enjoyable at all?
You would think that
if you're not buying into the story,
it would be pretty difficult
for you to have fun watching it.
But maybe Lord of the Rings
is some kind of exception.
So let's shift gears for a second
and look at a story.
Well, no, it's all about
how you weigh it up.
Like, because a couple of floors
in a film, again,
doesn't necessarily mean
it's a bad film,
and you can't get into it.
And it's just a shit film.
Like, it's all about
the particular film
and how many plot holes there are
and how bad they are.
And like, yeah, like,
maybe Lord of the Rings is exception.
I was surprised you didn't throw on
like a reason.
Is he just saying that
that's something that he's okay with?
That it's his exception?
I think I think we don't
we don't agree on that, though.
Well, I mean, I would just say
that the good in Lord of the Rings
far outweighs any bad
there are flaws in the films,
but they are bloody amazing,
considering all of the great
filmmaking elements of it.
So, yeah, I guess we'll move on.
Lee considered to be absolute garbage
in part because of its plot holes.
Oh, I don't know what this is.
That's going to be a problem.
In the many years since its release,
professional internet intellectuals
have torn Sorted online
to pieces from pretty much every angle,
including one of their apparent.
So any three of us seen Sorted online?
No, I've heard it.
I watched three episodes about
or like six episodes about seven years ago.
So I've just heard that it's not good.
I've heard that it's terrible.
We're going to have to.
This is a world first refab.
We're going to have to see what
chat says in response to his points.
We'll have to see how it goes.
It should be fun.
People are saying kill this.
And oh, no.
Kill this.
Oh, no.
Kill it with fire.
No.
And people are saying sort out online.
Really?
Someone said the first episode was neat.
His opinions are invalid.
Race for impact.
It's the fact that he's talking about
Lord of the Rings and then sort online.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's let's have a go.
Let's see what he has to say.
Wait.
Hold up.
Hold up.
Hold up.
Appa Ben does it.
Appa Ben says that Sword Art Online
is the call of duty of anime.
So that's the best.
Oh, I will.
I will take Appa Ben's opinion.
Wait, if Appa Ben has seen it,
we could have him jump in just to help us.
So it's like the normie.
Yeah.
Lowest common denominator anime.
Appa Ben could save us here if he's seen it.
Let me get him in.
Right there.
He's right there.
Boom.
You didn't even ask if he's okay with it.
Fuck you, Appa Ben.
Get your ass in here and tell us about the animes.
He's probably not even on Discord.
Fuck you.
I don't care if you're on Discord.
Get in Discord.
You can hear me on the stream.
You're listening to the stream.
Imagine like he's in work on his phone.
He's just running away.
If you're at work, then quit your job.
As he's online in Discord,
you can't run away from me.
Hello, by the way.
Is he there?
He's not here.
No, he's not there.
Oh, you will come into the call as soon as you can
to explain to us the animes.
The animes.
We don't understand, Appa.
We need your help.
Menge's and the animes.
I'm not way up enough for this.
Yeah, no, neither am I.
Neither is Rags.
Even all four of us.
There is.
Oh, hello.
Jeez.
Jeez, guys.
You're calling in a very bad time.
Blame Rags.
I didn't do this to you.
I didn't make you that I invited you.
So why what the hell?
The guy was just talking about plot holes and blurred rings
and then sort out online.
Well, I'm sure he's going to say that.
I have no idea.
We need to know what sort of line is.
Are you able to jump in or are you busy?
Well, I'm a little busy because I have a stream 30 minutes
from now.
I'll probably rate it later on.
Anyway, sort out online is the call of duty of anime.
Essentially, it's the mainstream popular anime that a lot of
people have been talking and a lot of people just it's average.
Basically, it's just mediocre.
And I don't know.
I need to hear what this guy is saying.
Well, I was going to say, if you go, do you have 20
minutes you could specs is probably going to be a couple
of minutes of talking about this.
Sure.
We'll get you.
All right.
Click the click the link there and the discord room.
Everybody.
Nobody's saying it's good.
No one.
No one is saying it's good, especially the first season.
It does.
It does get better, but slightly.
It's kind of like this switch.
It's kind of like how it's professional internet.
Newer.
Not much.
There we go.
Someone someone's saying that he made this video to defend his
crappy anime.
Oh, so guys, the real reason he made this video was to defend
his crappy and but but we'll see.
We'll see.
Yeah, we'll see.
We all good.
Everybody ready?
We'll see.
Yes.
Yep.
Yep.
All right.
Okay.
It's attacking the non-existent logic of the plot and pointing
out every little.
Oh, wait.
Let's go back just a bit.
Make sure we caught.
Yes.
Let's go.
Go back to the book.
Yeah.
Comes content on decline.
Yeah, another one right here since its release.
Professional internet intellectuals have torn sordid online to pieces
from pretty much every angle, including one of their apparent
favorites, attacking the non-existent logic of the plot and pointing
out every little hole they can find.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm not about to defend essays, bland characterization, awkward
pacing and rampant obsession with sexualizing and then sexually
harassing its many females.
But I am going to argue that maybe the plot holes aren't the
reason this show is regarded as such a dumpster.
Okay.
Wait a second.
I need to pause for a bit.
Why is it's not playing in my end.
That's really weird.
Virtue.
Where are you?
Is it playing at 353 now?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
It's playing now.
What I got from him just then was that he's about to explain
what the real problems with SAO are versus the plot holes
because the plot holes aren't the real problem.
Oh, God.
Torns sorted online to pieces from pretty much every angle,
including one of their apparent favorites.
Attacking the non-existent logic of the plot and pointing out every little hole they can find.
Don't get me wrong.
No.
The main criticism for Sword Art Online is the characters are not that great.
The story is really weak.
The first half kind of builds up.
The second half was just a total mess.
And well, I don't know.
Here's the thing about Sword Art Online.
There's a lot more issues.
If people are pointing out plot holes after plot holes after plot holes,
those are very minor plot holes.
But the overall issue with Sword Art Online is the fact that
the plot overall is just really not that great and the characters are not likable.
So I don't know what this guy's talking about.
But isn't that his point?
Isn't that what he's trying to say?
He's trying to say that those are the reasons why it's so bad and not the plot holes.
I mean, are you saying it's a combo, Appa?
I don't know because I think he's over-exaggerating the problems
that what people are pointing out.
I think he's trying to make that the plot hole problem
is a lot bigger than what people are pointing out.
Anyway, I think I'm just pausing into this.
Wrong. I'm not about to defend SAO's bland characterization,
awkward pacing, and rampant obsession with sexualizing
and then sexually harassing its many females.
But I am.
I mean, I don't know.
I haven't seen this.
I'm just like, this is the sound.
This sounds amazing.
Okay, okay, okay.
Sword Art Online sexually harassing its females.
It's very mild in the terms in the anime realms.
What Sword Art Online did to the female characters are very mild.
It's usually sexual humor.
It's usually jokes.
Yet this guy's bothered, I guess.
But I can't recall a time where I am like,
oh, oh my God, this character does this sexually harassing thing
and this is completely unacceptable.
It's not Goblin Slayer where the Goblin just freaking rape everybody.
I knew that was gonna come in as a reference.
But Sword Art Online is pretty tame in terms of sexually harassing the women.
I mean, damn, this guy.
I'm going to argue that maybe the plot holes aren't the reason
this show is regarded as such a dumpster fire.
One of the more popular complaints is that it doesn't make any sense
for Kirito to be able to save Yui, his adopted AI daughter,
as an in-game object when given access to the game's code.
And that it also doesn't make any sense that he wouldn't just log everyone
out of the game if he had access to it.
However, when SAO A Bridge came along and did the exact same thing,
nobody batted an eye.
You know why?
Because SAO A Bridge is an absolutely phenomenal show.
It goes beyond-
Wait, oh, that makes it better.
I got nothing, I have no idea.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a second, wait, wait a second.
A Bridge.
If you guys don't know, A Bridge are parodies.
Yeah, parodies, aren't they?
They're parodies.
How can I-
It's basically-
Look at chat, look at chat right now.
Yeah, wow.
Everything's confused.
Okay, if you guys are not familiar with A Bridge,
it's basically like the honest trailer of enemies.
An anime bridge, they're basically from plot one,
they're just doing a very honest trailer sort of mockery of the anime's plot
and just summing it up in like nine or 10 minutes.
It's an A Bridge version.
How can this guy seriously think that-
I mean, don't get me wrongs.
A lot of times, the A Bridge version is a million times better,
but it's usually because it's the humor, not because of the plot.
So basically, his point is that when it was done in a parody,
nobody cared because it was a parody, which is the point.
Yeah, that's what I'm grasping at.
I don't understand what his point is.
Is the parody taken seriously dramatically or is it just funny?
I don't know what this kid's point is.
I think he's trying to say that the parody's plot is better,
which is, yeah, because it makes fun of the original and pokes the holes in the original.
I mean, I don't get it.
Seven rewrites, though.
Poor Appa's business might.
This guy said he had seven rewrites in 11 months.
Yeah, baby, that was a joke.
The video started out as he said that after seven rewrites in 11 months of work
and a bunch of technical issues, he got this made, I think, is what he said.
Anyway, I kind of missed the first four minutes of the video.
What does he say that why plot holes don't matter?
Have you gone into that point yet?
Well, one of the points he made was that they're in Lord of the Rings
and people like Lord of the Rings.
So except for the examples that he discussed were really bad.
This is not even a good point.
Anyway, I don't I don't I don't get it because I recently watched Lord of the Rings
and it's it's freaking amazing.
But if people complain about the plot holes, I mean, sure, there are there.
You can find it.
But it's not it's not going to destroy my enjoyment to the film.
I mean, anyway, I think we should just carry on with this.
Yeah, I think instead really just using SAO as a basis to create its own much better story.
And while it does poke fun at and solve a couple of SAOs,
plot holes such as having the players be aware of that, right?
I'd say that's important to suggest that the bridge version solve the plot.
It's not official.
It's not the official work.
I'm going to solve the plot.
Fan fiction has historically solved plot holes.
Yeah, so abridged basically is like fan made or community made.
Yeah, it's like saying honest trailer fix the plot hole of the last Jedi.
Anyway, instead really just using SAO as a basis to create its own much better story.
And while it does poke fun at and solve a couple of SAOs,
plot holes such as having the players be aware of the fact that the game they're playing
is as irreparably broken as Jeff says it is, it leaves this one untouched and nobody cared.
I'm sure someone cared.
Yeah, because it says SAO abridged parody in the title.
People know it's a parody going in.
Yeah, so they don't care.
Yeah, yeah, such a strange example because you need so much more information and the fact
that he's just admitted, by the way, that several plot holes have been removed or fixed,
implying that the overall quality has gone up by, you know, assuming.
So of course, people would have less of a problem if things have been repaired.
What I find absolutely baffling is that he actually put the abridged version of the anime,
which is the parody version that box the plot holes that box is the consistencies.
Alongside the original anime as a comparison and actually saying the abridged version
fixes the plot hole.
It's not supposed to fix plot holes.
It's supposed to parody the entire anime.
But apparently the abridged version also has the plot hole.
First off, who the hell criticizes plot holes in abridged versions in anime?
It's like going to on it.
Again, it's like going to honest trailer and like pointing out the logical inconsistencies
in the honest trailer.
Like what's the point?
I think it's a huge straw man that the guy's trying to pull here that this what we're doing,
what we're picking up the plot holes in abridged version is somehow the same to,
say, picking up the plot holes in the last Jedi.
Yeah, the definitely different context.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Abridged is super popular and widely acclaimed.
But maybe this is simply the result of people assuming that the failings of SAO abridged
must have come as a result of the inflexibility of using the original SAO as source material.
So let's look at one last example, one that I feel is the most telling.
In Digibro's massive video, Psychopass versus Psychopass 2, what happened?
Okay, okay, stop for the record.
Psychopass 1 is better.
Psychopass 2 is not.
Why does this guy use anime that...
He likes anime.
I guess, I guess.
Yeah, he likes anime.
But why would he use anime as an example?
Because from what I've seen in terms of the plot hole sorts of discussion,
it's always going to be related to Western stuff.
That's why I don't talk about anime in like my video about pot hole,
because if I do talk about anime, people are going to be like confused and everything like that.
Like, wow, that's a huge leap.
No, and I would think he would choose.
I'm not saying it's not like mainstream,
but you think you would choose something a little more, I guess.
Like, I guess mainstream kind of is the word.
More popular or well known or...
Something to create a stronger baseline,
because a lot of people just be like, I haven't seen this.
Wait, wait a second.
Somebody on the chat said,
Appa Ben is out of the water.
We're talking about your bridge version of things.
A bridge series can have their own inconsistencies that can be incorrect.
I'm not saying that they can't.
There are a lot of honest traders that have flawed logic as well.
A bridge versions also have their flawed logic as well.
But pointing out the logic of a bridge series is about as pointless as, say,
picking apart the logical inconsistencies of Mel Brooks film or Airplane, for example.
You don't.
You just don't.
You don't do that.
It has parody in the title.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's a lot of context to this.
It's just going to fall, especially after Lord of the Rings.
Like, as comparisons go, a bit confusing.
Yeah, you guys all know Lord of the Rings will sort out online in Psychopath.
Anyway.
Preface is a section of the video where he dives into the many logical holes and errors
in the second season of Psychopaths with a brief discussion about suspension of disbelief.
It's here that he essentially states that while there may have been plot holes in the
first season of Psychopaths, he failed to notice or be bothered by any because he...
Because Psychopaths 1 was pretty good and Psychopaths 2 was just overall not great.
So that just means it didn't bother him.
Yeah.
Which isn't a counter argument to their existence.
And also, the problem is we don't have enough information.
I don't know how bad they are in Psychopaths 1 or how many there are there
compared to the second season, assuming it's seasons.
Yeah, I think you guys should watch the video for Eric is on stream.
Glad that I jumped in.
It's like, we should totally just watch all these
animations to understand this video.
It's like, hmm.
It's not worth it.
Yeah, watch Spider-Man 3, but we gotta draw a line.
We gotta draw a line somewhere.
Out of all the enemies here that he's had to be showing,
Psychopaths 1 is the only one I recommend, and even that one I haven't finished.
But anyway.
...invested in and engaged by the storytelling.
However, the second season of Psychopaths shattered his suspension of disbelief because
he wasn't engaged by the storytelling.
Maybe it wouldn't have happened if I'd been more interested in the story or characters,
or if the presentation had lived up to that in the first season.
Wait, that sounds like Digi, bro.
I think...
Is that him?
I don't know.
But I mean, I have a feeling where I know where he's going now,
which is that he's pointed out that this guy has said,
plot holes only matter to me if, you know, it wouldn't have
mattered as much if the story and characters were better.
And so is he going to conclude then?
It's just about how much you like the characters in the story.
Plot holes don't actually matter.
They're only used when people aren't invested in the story and the character.
I have a feeling that's going to be the conclusion here, I'll have to see.
It failed to engage me with its storyline.
I found myself thinking more about its many logical
policies than I did about its main narrative.
In other words, even if the first season had plot holes and logical errors,
he would be willing to overlook them because it told an
exceptional story with exceptional presentation that kept him wholeheartedly invested.
Is the story exceptional if it has plot holes in it?
Yeah, that's the thing.
How does that work?
Even best case scenario, it's good despite it.
I mean, yeah, I'm not saying...
I'm not saying one plot hole just makes the story bad automatically.
I'm saying like, if it's got some...
I'm trying to think of just an example, but my brain is like,
use the last Jedi.
It's like, I can't use something else.
Just, you know, typical hero villain story and the villain has the girl,
let's just say, and the hero is like, I have no idea where they are.
And then some guy just throws him a phone.
It's like, I threw a tracker on him.
And he's like, who are you?
And he's like, just doesn't matter.
And he runs away.
And then, you know, the ending can happen.
And it's a really good ending, but it's just like, what the hell?
That's how he found him.
He's just some guy threw him a phone.
Well, in Spider-Man 1, when Peter Parker wakes up after being bitten,
he breaks the lamp with his spider web.
It shatters and Aunt May comes up to check on him because of the noise.
And in a scene when he closes the door, the lamp is still there.
Unbroken.
Films ruined.
By the door.
So that is a...
Obviously, it doesn't ruin the film.
It's just one of those...
Yeah, that's a...
And that's, you know, I think we just highlighted the difference
between insignificant and significant ones.
It really depends on the context.
How much this can damage a film or its storyline, anyway.
Who cares if the lamp is still there?
Unless he ends up using the lamp to save his life later on in the film,
we're like, did he destroy that lamp?
Like, okay.
But since the second season told a lackluster story with
lackluster presentation that did not garner investment from him at all,
the plot holes are suddenly glaring and a huge problem.
Do you see what I'm getting at?
No, no, no, no, let me explain the context.
Now, from what I've heard from people's opinions in Psycho-Pass,
the main issue with Psycho-Pass 2 is that the story deviates itself
from the original sci-fi sort of atmosphere into a more sci-fi to fantasy sort of route.
And that's why a lot of people, like, they're not really on board with the chains.
Basically, are you guys familiar with True Detective?
It's kind of like going to the first season, to the second season.
Is that also an anime?
True Detective? No, it's a TV series.
No, no, that's not an anime.
I don't know.
Oh, you don't know.
How about Stranger Things from the first season to the second season?
Like, from the first season, it was really good.
Everybody loved it.
And then the second season is...
It's almost like a genre shift.
I call sexies and garbage, controversially.
But I mean, I'll let the chat get mad at me for that one, baby.
I don't know.
Like, it starts adding in supernatural stuff to what used to be this very grounded sort of,
you know, attempt to...
Like, if people in, like, Ghost in the Shell started using magic.
Yeah.
That's an anime I know of, so there.
Pattern seems clear to me.
We, as a collective audience, only really seem to care about plot holes and logical inconsistencies
when the story is bad.
But they don't seem to have an effect on the generally accepting quality.
But the thing is, there's a difference.
There's a big difference between when people actually care about the plot holes
and whether or not they do matter, like, whether they are flaws.
Like, the reason people overlook flaws in stuff like the rings is because otherwise it's amazing.
So, of course, people aren't really going to care that much about the little things.
Doesn't mean they're not necessarily flaws.
It's a little out of order, too.
We don't only focus on plot holes on the bad things.
Things are bad because of the plot holes oftentimes.
You just don't like food because it tastes bad.
You know, it's one of those things.
Like, if we're criticizing something, obviously the plot holes are going to be brought up.
Yeah, you know what?
I agree with Patrick.
I don't like the focus the plot holes get, but not for the same reason.
I hate the people who are defending crappy films.
Like, stop focusing plot holes.
Like, we don't.
We do lots of things.
Plot holes is just one of them.
Yes.
I want this guy to move on from anime yet.
Jesus, even I'm printing now.
Star Wars, E.T., The Matrix, Harry Potter, The Dark Knight.
All these stories are famously excellent, and they all have plot holes.
Some of them are big, super noticeable plot holes.
So, how have these...
So, he's just recognized that there's a difference between the big and small then?
Okay.
I'm not going to elaborate on that, I don't think.
I want to hear what he's saying here.
They have if their logic isn't necessarily sound.
Well, it's because those minor logical details are surface level
and irrelevant to how a story functions.
Think about it.
Compared to characterization...
It might be.
It might also not be.
Yeah, like, the title of this should be,
Why Plot Holes Don't Matter Unless They Do.
Yeah, because the thing is, if we're talking about plot holes,
it's very specific to specific films.
There are some films that have a lot of plot holes,
but are actually pretty good overall.
People really enjoy it.
Even really good films that a lot of people universally love,
they do have plot holes.
But there are a lot of films, also, that have plot holes that are incredibly glaring.
So, I...
So, let's put it like this.
Patrick Willems said this in his video,
which is one of the reasons it was so shit,
because his video was Stop Caring About Plot Holes,
where he said plot holes don't matter,
and at the same time he says, except sometimes they do.
And he says that plot holes are surface-level criticism,
but that's not necessarily true.
Yeah, it's not true at all.
It's plot.
Plot isn't really surface-level.
Turns out there's nuance to plot holes.
It's not just plot holes and you've got them all.
All of them are in there.
That little definition is just...
Yes, all plot holes, that's what they are.
They're just this one thing,
and either they matter or they don't.
There's no in-between.
...thematic poignancy, propulsive plot structure,
and even all the other non-story-related stuff.
Like, performance...
Why Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood,
or Full Metal Alchemist is in there, that's weird.
And Black Panther.
Think about it.
Compared to characterization,
thematic poignancy, propulsive plot structure,
and even all the other non-yensy...
All of these things can be affected by plot holes.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's possible.
Yeah, and even if they're not,
it doesn't mean that plot holes aren't a problem in themselves.
Yeah, you're tackling the things that plot holes...
Even if you were tackling the things that plot holes do not affect,
that doesn't mean you've tackled everything to do with the film or storywriting.
Somebody asked a very good point,
and it's a very good question in the chat.
Would you point out the plot holes in the room?
There's no point.
Well, that's how a film is a plot hole, so...
Seriously.
Yeah, you would point out the plot holes in the room,
because it's funny.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Why not?
I mean, you could if you wanted, but you didn't have to.
But nobody is seriously saying that The Room is a good film.
Yeah.
Like, it's so bad that it's good.
But it's going to be one guy, like, Bob somewhere.
He's just like, no, I thought it was good.
Tommy, why is it out?
It's not going to be one, yeah.
I want to make a movie talking about how The Room is worse than you remember,
or something like that.
The Room is worse than your room.
Story-related stuff like performance, directing, editing, sound design, and music.
Yeah, these are all things that make up a film, including plot holes.
Or plot, I should say.
Yeah, sometimes they're good, sometimes they're bad, sometimes they're important, sometimes they're
tiny.
Plot logic seems especially small in terms of the effect it will have on the audience
during the first viewing.
And it's the effect on the audience that matters.
How the hell can you fucking measure that?
The effect on the audience is completely subjective.
How can you measure that?
It has an effect on individuals.
So, you can ask, that's why a lot of people don't have problems with The Lord of the Rings,
even if they think that the eagle thing is a plot hole.
Because to them-
And that's meaningless as well.
People will say, oh, it's about the journey.
It's like, oh, it's, we're basing this entirely on how audiences react to it emotionally.
It's like, so that's not really grounded in anything that-
Yeah, so different people will say completely different things,
and there's no truth to them at all.
Kind of pointless.
In order to do that, to have an effect on the audience as intended,
the story must function.
Whether or not it makes logical sense has nothing to do with that.
In what universe does something function if it's illogical?
This is literally, this is exactly what Patrick Willems said as well.
Yeah, if it functions, but it's illogical, we have question-
We have a function issue.
Yes, we have an issue.
It doesn't work, and that incongruity, those things aren't matching up.
And it seems to me that he's saying functionality is based on whether someone likes it.
Whether someone was taken in or taken out by it.
Which to me is just nonsense.
Like, well, yeah, everything's functional then,
because there's someone on the planet who liked it somewhere.
The fact of the matter has nothing to do with if it's noticed or not.
Yeah, what does he mean by functional?
Does it just mean that there is a scene and then there's another scene and things happen?
I think so.
Because yeah, I mean, that is, well, it's not, I'd say that's not functional,
but it is stuff that happens, but that's not a plot.
It's a very bad plot.
Damn.
Function.
No one enjoys a story because of the A to B logic of the plot.
They enjoy them-
What do you- Yes, there are people who enjoy the fact that-
Yeah.
Yeah, people definitely appreciate it.
It's called cause and effect.
It's a very important part to storytelling.
People like it when things match up.
Yeah, I think for a lot of people, it's one of those things where
if it's not happening, it takes them out of it and they can't enjoy it.
Whereas when it's happening, they don't notice it.
Maybe.
It's like someone punches a guy.
We expect that guy to react.
If he just starts eating a packet of crisps, we're like,
okay, that didn't make much sense.
Then he's like, you don't watch them to make sense.
Your brain's just fried at that point.
Because of the emotion that stories instill in them.
And that's the key word, emotion.
Stories are emotional experiences.
Their objective is to get you to feel, to translate empathy, to-
Yeah, so if it makes-
Wait, wait, wait a second.
I do want to know what film is he defending in terms of the plot holes sort of talk.
Because usually when people were talking about, hey, plot holes don't really matter.
They're usually like Patrick Williams, for example.
He defends A Quiet Place and The Last Jedi.
So what film is this guy trying to defend or is he just trying to-
He might mention an example later.
Yeah, so far, all we've got is maybe SAO.
But this is August of this year.
I guess you're right.
I guess he just made this entire video to complain about how SAO got a lot of flak.
Yeah, you know, he said like, it's the job to make you feel.
It's like by that logic, no film has ever failed.
Because there's someone out there who felt something.
Even if you feel boredom, it succeeded because it made you feel.
And that's the key word, emotion.
Stories are emotional.
Oh, by the way, by the way, I'm just going to pause it right here.
Because from what I've seen, there are no more talks about anime.
Because if there are, please do call me.
Because I'm about to prepare for my stream.
Thank you, Anime Expert, for helping us through that.
Thanks for helping us.
At least you do have one now, just in case you encounter these really interesting random
encounter.
But anyway.
Anyway, talk to you guys later.
See you, man.
Bye.
Their objective is to get you to feel, to translate empathy,
to foster investment in a situation that is not your own.
Yeah, but plot holes get in the way of that.
The thing is, it's not an either rule.
Yeah, they can exist together.
Ideally, they should exist.
That was a big part of a lot of people's arguments,
is the logic fights emotional investment.
Like to make things logical will screw up the emotional value.
What will you from?
I don't know.
That's not true.
It's just not true.
In fact, illogical plots make them less believable and therefore harder to invest in.
It's very, because I'm trying to get this across in my new videos that come out,
but it's like when a film is like, here's this scenario.
There's this guy, and he can do this.
And you're like, okay, okay.
And then and then 10 minutes later, you go, he can't do this, by the way.
And you go, oh, I thought you said he could.
You can't now.
Oh, okay.
And then 10 minutes later, he can do this now.
And you're like, what's going on movie?
What are you trying to?
I'm confused.
I'm not following.
And that's what we usually mean by illogical is that it's inconsistent with itself.
It's telling you to care about these rules.
And you go, oh, okay, cool.
And then it goes, don't care about the rules anymore.
And you're like, no, I was invested in the stakes.
But now you've just told me that they don't mean anything.
So okay.
But no space was it's nothing ever makes any sense.
Therefore, you should enjoy every film or something like that.
New places, some of them upbeat and fantastical.
Some of them on the dark.
Oh, no, more anime.
Someone said made a good comment in the chat.
Oh, shit.
Oh, Tobias Holmes says you have to believe what happens.
Otherwise, you'll not care.
Yeah, that's pretty.
Yeah, that's fine.
It's pretty straightforward.
This guy seems to have accepted that.
But he said that plowels don't really come into that.
When when when considering how much you believe it's about how the quality of the story or
something, which is ironic, because it's like, which can be determined by plot holes.
Yeah, which is nonsense.
And if he is saying it's all subjective, then some people do subjectively care about plot holes.
Yeah, they matter.
The internal logic of this person's argument is falling apart is kind of what we're getting at.
Seven rewrites.
Okay, we're not even halfway through, guys.
Situation that is not your own to bring you to new places.
Some of them are beaten.
I can believe Harry Potter because there aren't it because I'm not aware of enough plot.
Maybe there are his thing.
Maybe there are.
Yes, I've always accepted that.
There are films I'm really invested in.
And then someone can be like, didn't you think about this, this, this, this, this?
And I go, Oh, no, I didn't.
And that affects how I feel.
And so then the plot holes matter.
Hmm.
Sickle some of them frighteningly dark and sobering.
They're cathartic because they allow you to feel emotion in an environment that is safe,
where fear of consequences can be abandoned for the sake of exploring concepts deeper
and deeper and deeper.
Yeah.
And, you know, exploring these concepts gets difficult.
If the film like I have to use the last Jedi here, it's like
failure being a good teacher is like, Oh, you get to think about that for a second.
Then you consider what's happening to these characters in the film.
You're like, that's not really learning from failure.
Yeah, problems with problems with the plot and internal consistent stuff
prevent you from getting invested like that.
Or can prevent you or can prevent you.
Sorry.
Yeah, some people out there don't care.
Stories or stories that take place in like shown Fullmetal Alchemist here.
They have rules like the like Alchemy in Fullmetal Alchemist has rules and
they're constantly talked about throughout the series.
It allows us to get invested because we understand the stakes then.
Yes, absolutely.
Is like it adds it can only help and it helps and helps and helps the more
consistent the story is with itself.
The more invested that we can be, the more impact it'll have.
Worlds with characters you can understand and empathize with not just for the sake of
entertainment, but also for the sake of making you think of giving you something to walk away
with a new perspective on the world or on yourself.
A new understanding that you could never have gained from a simple explanation.
Yeah, these are all things you can get from movies, but plot holes not mattering to them
isn't really a thing.
He's he does that thing where he has these random clips that don't have anything to
just a lot of them have like what you could call watermarks as well,
like weird ones.
I'm not sure where he's getting his clips from, but they're like,
I mean, it takes work to fetch all of these clips and put them in and get them on the timeline.
And I mean, like, that's why I'm so glad I just like playing emotional moments.
Like some of the clips are relevant and some of them aren't.
Yeah, the self reflection one was obviously a choice.
Yeah, some of them.
Yeah, some like the Dunkirk.
The only way they can get you to that place is through execution of dramatic function,
through getting you invested execution of dramatic function.
Execution of dramatic function.
What does what does that mean?
I am going to guess that the execution of dramatic function is the film.
Do the film's ability to convey to the audience what feeling or emotion is in the director's
head or is trying to be conveyed?
How do you have drama without stakes?
How do you have stakes without rules?
And by that, I mean, someone you like is fighting someone you hate to the death.
Why does that matter?
Well, because they can die.
How do you know they can die?
Because they're human and humans are mortal.
These are rules that make the stakes.
Do you see what I mean?
Yeah, well, yeah, well, there have to be facts that are established.
You can't just come from nowhere.
Which is why plot logic is very important to a lot of people.
Exactly.
And engaged.
That is the environment where a writer's ideas can ring true,
pierce the barrier of incomprehension.
It's like, it's like, why do you think like people who are really into D&D and Pathfinder
and stuff, how those can be really tense, because everyone knows the rules?
Exactly.
Like a couple of weeks ago, Mike, we're playing, I played D&D,
we're playing like the mines of Fandovo.
And we we fought a green dragon and almost all died, because it's a very stupid decision.
And you can't, you know, no one's going to tell me that wasn't a really tense
situation because we were all heavily invested in it.
But it made sense.
You know, there were rules that were followed.
You know, without that, it would just be a bit of fun.
I mean, it was fun anyway, but it was more than that.
Yeah, I was kind of rambling.
Sorry.
No, it makes sense.
You get what I mean?
I was invested in your story because you established the rules.
It all made sense to me.
For example, if someone just said, I imagine that we all get home safely.
And then the game ended.
It's like, no, just boring mistakes.
Yeah, it's boring.
Reach the viewer.
These are emotional experiences.
And it is that emotion that counts.
Logic is the opposite of emotion.
I hate to be pedantic, but the opposite of logic is not logic.
But they those things are not necessarily opposites at all.
No, not at all.
I don't I hate this stupid myth.
No, it's a myth now because there's two people who are saying it.
Logic is the opposite of emotion.
Therefore, you could have one or the other.
It's just like, yeah, just at odds does not mean that they are opposites.
Yeah, logical decisions can often basically be the result of removing any sense of emotion,
or you can make you have two emotional decisions and you go with a logical one,
or logically, you take an emotional decision.
There's so many different contexts to use the weird logic.
It's the example I've got in my video coming up is I'm assuming you guys have both seen Predator.
The new one, the old one, the first one.
Yeah, remember when Mac goes a bit nuts and he starts to go after the predator personally
on his own after there's like a fight scene, then he's just like, I got you, motherfucker.
I got you.
And he starts running after him.
Oh, yeah, I would call that an illogical decision because he's running off without his team.
But it's a completely strong piece of logical writing.
He wants revenge because he killed Blaine.
Yeah, see what I mean?
I just used logic twice, and they mean two different things.
And one of them is tied to emotion.
The other one is tied to consistent writing.
I hate getting bottled down to you're either emotional or you're logical.
End of story.
It's like, oh, okay.
You can really hate Saren, right?
Because he's evil and it's logical.
You mean Saren?
Saren, yeah.
Man, that American accent ruins that name, doesn't it?
Sauron's Ross.
Sauron.
Hey, man.
You guys gonna take out that Sauron guy?
Sauron.
Yes, no, continue.
Sorry, I did be too.
I have Sauron.
Hi, Sauron.
Sauron.
Sauron.
I'm so Sauron.
Totally got off topic.
That was way too sexual.
Um, all not sexual enough is really, it's really down to interpretation.
It's subjective, I would say.
It's too late for the shit, man.
Apparently I just said it wrong.
Whatever.
He's bad.
He died.
Soros.
George Sauron.
Whichever one's more evil, I don't know.
Sauron.
Okay, let's keep going.
Emotional experiences, and it is that emotion that counts.
Logic is the opposite.
I'll be the judge of what counts.
Opposite of emotion.
And though basic logic is obviously critical to living our everyday life,
it's usually kind of unexciting and cold.
Oh, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
It's critical to everyday life, but it's boring.
It's like, what even point are you making there?
It's like, I'm sorry your life is boring, but that doesn't matter if it's boring or not.
If you think that logic is boring, that does not matter when it comes to emotion.
Are you saying emotional movies can't,
there are no emotional movies that can't be logically consistent and boring.
Is ex machina not emotional?
Because it doesn't have to be cold.
Logic is associated with it though.
Like for example, Spider-Man goes to rescue Mary Jane because he loves her.
And it's a logical decision.
I mean, logic.
Well, it's logical that he would make that decision considering his emotional investment.
Yes.
And it's more accurate to say logic doesn't care.
It's neither hot nor cold.
It's apathetic in anything.
It just is.
In The Dark Knight where it's like, do we kill 100 civilians or 100 criminals?
You go logically, the criminals have done more bad to society than the,
and that's almost philosophical, but you get what the point is.
Again, it's just an echo of the fact that logic is being demonized when it comes in so many forms.
Same for emotion.
It's very complicated.
People say you're acting illogically.
That's not praise.
They're not saying keep it up, champ.
I just, I can't believe he said like, oh, we use logic.
Yeah, it's critical to our lives.
But I mean, it's still boring.
It's like, you know how we like, we set up houses so that we have them contained and
it doesn't just flow through it from the outside.
So they stay warm.
We do that with like particular materials in particular ways.
I could just picture him being like, yeah, but it's boring though.
Why would I, I'm hoping he elaborates.
On what he means by everyday logic versus the logic that ruins films.
Yeah, because that's another big difference.
And so basic logic is obviously critical to living our everyday life.
It's usually kind of unexciting and cold.
If you've ever had to try to comfort a crying friend or family member,
or you're a crier yourself, you probably know that sometimes logic just isn't what's in.
Thank you.
Sometimes logic doesn't work.
Sometimes it does.
Yes.
But even then it depends on what you're attempting to do.
Here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
If your goal is to console your friend, it can be logical to not use some other kind of logic.
Yeah.
It can be logical to it.
You know what I'm saying?
Making the situation worse is the logical thing to do.
Yes.
If you're going,
That's why this is so interesting.
You got a friend's parents died.
You go up to them and you think to yourself, okay, I could say I'm here for you.
Hey, my dad died, so I know how it feels.
You could say, get over it.
You have all these options.
Which one does the best?
Logically speaking, I want to choose the one that has the best outcome.
And then you say, I'm here for you.
Anything you need, just talk to me.
And then someone goes, see, that's not a logical thing to say.
It's like, that's absolutely a logical thing to say.
Yes.
Because the logical thing to...
Let me just double check logic definition.
Because you don't tie definition.
There's some rapper guy that pops up.
Reasoning conducted or assessed according to strict principles of validity.
So logic's a line of reasoning.
Yeah.
And so the reasoning is, I want to make this person feel better.
Well, reasoning would be why.
But if you...
Oh, yeah.
That's the goal.
Associate logic with the goal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So if the goal is to make somebody change emotionally,
then you wouldn't use quote unquote, cold logic.
But the fact that he just brought this in...
So logically, what would cheer this person up?
He was like...
It's just a very simplified view of logic and emotion.
He was like, logic is cold.
You know, when you come to a friend, sometimes using logic doesn't work.
And it's like, well, yeah, but you've just...
You brought this in as a counter, but you just admitted that it does sometimes work.
So it's not a counter at all.
It's actually a valid choice.
Like, it's...
I don't really get this argument anyway.
He's just like, here, take this scenario in which logic is sometimes valid.
It's like, oh, well, thanks for proving it.
Family member or you're a crier yourself.
You probably know that sometimes logic just isn't what's important.
It counts more than certain people realize,
but considering that these stories are not actually real, they're...
But I can believe it.
Yeah, he has.
Because we know, because we have established that he can crawl on walls.
Yeah.
He's got the spider stinky fingeredness.
Yes.
That falls within a rule.
We know it isn't real, but that's okay.
Yeah, because that's not illogical, what he's doing there.
If a random person just jumped onto the ceiling and stuck to his hands,
that would be a problem.
But we know that that's Spider-Man,
and that's what he can do for reasons that have been established and accepted.
Exactly.
Like, let me just ask you this, chat.
Is it logical that Spider-Man can climb walls?
No.
Yes.
Well, you...
What?
It is.
It is.
No.
Internal logic is just as unimportant in the face of intense emotion
as it would be to a loved one who's bawling their eyes out
for a reason that maybe doesn't make much sense.
As for that whole thing about logic being unexciting,
there are places such as with mysteries
where the logic of something is important to the experience.
So it does matter, then?
Yeah, it does matter, yes.
If you prove it matters in one instance, then it matters.
No, it does matter.
What he should really be saying is why I don't care about some plot holes.
That's not enticing video, is it?
Yeah, there's no clickbait there.
Oh, and I don't know.
Was that not detected?
I was kidding about Spider-Man climbing.
Of course, that makes sense.
Oh, yeah, because logic is reasoning conducted
or assessed according to strict principles of validity.
We have established that it is valid for him to do that.
I was role-playing as a man wearing a hoodie with a scarf, I think.
Also, this is on this part, I'm sorry, I'm a stickler for this
because I use the same thing for my videos.
But on the crook of his arm there, on the right-hand side,
whenever he makes his face, he needs to delete that
and make that transparent because it covers up the background.
Oh, I think I know what you mean, yeah.
Yeah, the white spot there.
When he changes the next picture, that will be gone
and you could see the forest behind it through his arm and his side.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
In those cases, you aren't enjoying the logic.
You're enjoying the feeling of intelligence,
intrigue, and cerebral engagement that the story provides by going over plot logic.
Not to mention, because certain stories are more thinky than others,
maintaining the sense that everything is-
So sometimes it does matter.
What is the point of this video?
Yes, that's the thing.
You have admitted that sometimes they matter.
It's context, which is what we've been saying from the beginning.
Your title is why bottles don't matter.
You have fucked up.
Very badly.
Makes sense, can be important to creating a consistent tone.
Oh, and that's what Patrick did too.
Yeah, he said that it matters when he says it matters.
Yeah, so he did the same mistake.
When did he say it mattered, though?
He said it mattered when he said that there's a major plot contrivance.
He's talking about Martha being the mum of both of them, the same name.
Oh, yeah.
He said there's a major plot contrivance to push character growth.
His argument is that they only matter in relation to character,
but he originally says in the video that they don't matter whatsoever.
Yeah, because it's basically impossible to say and get away with,
as far as I know, that they do not matter.
And I have to say, I'm not saying Patrick copied this video,
but they do line up in a lot of ways.
It might just be that this is how people typically argue against plot holes, I guess.
Yeah, it's like whenever...
Because they both try to make the same point and they both fuck up in the same way.
But my take from his video is that when he was saying that those things mattered,
it's because they were contrivances rather than plot holes.
He was saying that plot holes don't matter because it's the contrivances that make it bad.
On the Patrick one, he did mention at a time that there was a difference between the two,
but he did also mention that there are plot holes.
But we recognize that a contrivance is less egregious than a plot hole, by definition.
Yeah.
Patrick's saying that a contrivance can work, but a plot hole cannot is confusing because
you should be more forgiving of a plot contrivance than a plot hole.
A plot hole is...
It would be like me saying, you can't slap me in the face, but you can punch me.
You'd be like...
No, it's a bad argument, yeah, but that is what he was saying.
But it doesn't make sense.
She's wrong.
This is what I feel Digi's real problem with the completely
emblatantly nonsensical plot line of Psycho Pass Season 2 is.
In the first season, Psycho Pass established its world and tone as serious ones,
deep diving into complex psychology and philosophy and keeping the surface level
easy to notice logic mostly intact.
Then, in Season 2, they completely tossed logic to the wind for the sake of doing
whatever fun action set piece or totally horrifying moment they feel-
You don't need to do that for any set pieces.
You can always maintain logic if you just write hard enough.
Even if you want-
Yes, huge set pieces can have more drama and tension because we have established stakes
and we know rules.
If you want shark nados, you don't- you can have a fictional world and you can say
there's such an extreme tornado that it's pulling sharks out of the water and it's flinging them at
the- and as the audience, we have to go, all right, this is a world where there's that extreme of a
tornado.
Yeah, absolutely.
As long as you stay consistent, that you go, there's an equally powerful tornado that's not
pulling any sharks up because we need it to not do it for this scene.
It would be like, oh, well, that's inconsistent.
Yeah.
Very- it's- internally- internal consistency, that's- this all comes down.
It doesn't- it doesn't matter that there's a guy who can telekinetically move things
and has a laser sword.
That's fine.
As long as it's established that that's a thing.
You're like, even if the-
Talk about that for a moment while I pee.
Okay.
I think the story's fun with shark nados.
I just- yeah, I do think it's a bit pointless to criticize shark nados for plot holes because-
I mean, that film's gonna have a shit ton of problems, but all I'm saying is I took the
most ridiculous thing, because his argument is like-
Oh yeah, yeah, I get what you're doing.
They want to do ridiculous stuff in Psycho Pass Season 2.
It's like, that doesn't mean they have to have inconsistent writing.
They could still do it.
I mean, I haven't seen it, so you could say, like, how could you know?
I'm like, I'm pretty sure you can contextualize any choice you wanted to make,
except ones that counter things you came before.
Yeah.
Which I mean, at that point, you may as well just write a different story if you want to tell that
story. That's a big problem with a lot of continued franchises.
They're like, I want to tell my story in this universe.
Oh, it counters it?
Nah, I don't care. Whatever.
Are you thinking of one particular series?
Oh, you know, Star Trek, Space Wars.
They're two big ones that they did it to.
What was it called?
Space Soldiers?
Oh, yeah.
Star Ship.
No, what was that book called?
No, what was that book called?
Joseph Anderson.
It's a Stella Marines.
It's a Stella Marines.
And then it's Stella Soldiers as well.
Oh, brilliant.
Yeah.
Sharknado is a big joke.
I was just saying that as an example of you can even, you could have written Sharknado well
if you really wanted to.
It's just going to take effort.
It has to be this time of year.
Only these kinds of sharks are affected.
The wind has to be at this speed and it has to cross the waters
while the sharks migrate at a certain time.
And you can argue something to do with like, you know, the continental shelf has shifted or
some big thing has happened that we haven't seen.
A fissure in the earth has driven the sharks closer to the surface than ever before.
Yeah, that kind of shit happens in movies all the time.
They have the mumbo-jumbo that they hope you don't think about.
Sometimes it's better than others.
The writing and direction of Psycho Pass 2 have been great but kept all the same logic problems.
It still wouldn't be very good because the obvious unintended dumbness would
disconnect the viewer from a world that once felt grounded and realistic.
You'll notice that now we're moving away from the plot hole discussion and into one about
the consistency of tone and the true breaker of suspension of disbelief, Verisimilitude.
Verisimilitude is basically the idea that a story does not need to adhere to our sense of reality
because when we experience a story, we immerse ourselves in it, become invested and suspend our
disbelief.
So when we enter a story's world, it's more important for that world to adhere to its own
internal sense of reality.
That's what we've been arguing the whole time.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't think- does he know the- so when he brought up the eagles, did he think people
were saying there's no eagles in real life that are that big or was he saying the eagles
should have rescued them before if they were going to rescue them now or delivered them before?
He's already- he's already tackled a plot hole that is about internal consistency so
he should know that that's what people are talking about already.
I kind of want to see where he's going with this.
Yeah, sure.
Rather than actual reality.
Even if there's something occurring in a story that would be highly implausible in
real life, it doesn't matter because we're not in real life.
We're in the story's reality.
When that story's reality breaks, however, such as with the blatant stupidity of Psychopath
Season 2 clashing with the serious tone of the first season, our suspension of disbelief
goes out the window.
It's not just about clashing tone.
That's about plot holes, too.
It's about everything.
Why has he moved from-
Yeah, I don't know.
Not just from that tone and-
Told you it's another one of the many things you mentioned that are important.
My brain is dying, guys.
I don't blame you.
Notice how the-
There's a fantasy, essentially.
Where do you think the music comes from?
How does everybody know how to dance?
It's a fantasy, in essence.
It's just a very-
In this world, everybody does that shit.
No, I don't think-
Yeah, but when people criticize plot holes, they're not necessarily doing it because
they break the rules of our world.
It's their rules.
It's the world's rules.
Someone just said seven rewrites.
Zach's saying stupid, irrational plot logic that ruins Psycho Pass works perfectly in
Spielberg's Ready Player One.
That movie is-
No.
About as dumb as I am.
So, question.
No, Ready Player One's really bad.
Yeah, but he said it was bad.
Well, he said it works because it's displayed as bad, that it's owning it intonally.
Right.
Which is no-
Is this about a video game world that you go into?
Yeah, and tonally, it's like adventure, happy, bit of a mystery, and then a bit of a romance.
There's a lot of-
It's your standard Spielberg film in terms of it does everything that you want to see
outside of like horror.
No, it actually does-
This is what I mean.
Yeah, it has literally like every genre in it, and the tone is just to experience it as
one big adventure sort of thing.
But loads of it makes no fucking sense at all.
And I guess he's saying that that doesn't matter in films that are toned like
Ready Player One.
Yeah, can we just rewatch that clip?
Because he is saying it's stupid, but I want to see how he's defending it.
The bleak stupidity of Psycho Pass Season 2 clashing with the serious tone of the first
season, our suspension of disbelief goes out the window.
Notice how the exact same stupid irrational plot logic that ruins Psycho Pass works perfectly in
Spielberg's Ready Player One.
That movie is about as dumb as I am, and is absolutely dripping with plot holes and things
that don't make sense.
Things that you notice as you're watching.
But it actually works to its advantage, because that's the reality that Ready Player One constructs.
Oh, I guess I made his point before he said it.
But he did say that.
So this world?
Yeah, I can believe that makes sense, because it's an established video game world.
Yeah, well, no, they break their own rules.
And they have, like, for instance, Rags.
They've been looking for years for the secret to winning a race.
There's just this race that's running every time.
This is like where my head started to fall out of the film.
So it's your standard thing.
Everyone turns up and they go, three, two, one, go, new race.
And the big problem is no one's getting past King Kong.
He's like at the end, and he just beats the shit out of anybody who comes to him.
So the puzzle is like, how do you get past King Kong?
And our character, after getting in on searching for the clue to all of this,
he looks like a past flashback video thing.
And the maker is talking about some random stuff.
And then the maker just goes, sometimes to go forward, you have to go backwards.
And then he goes, huh.
So they start.
So let me guess.
He reverses.
The race starts and he goes backwards.
He reverses and it gets him past King Kong.
And he gets the first secret that people have been looking for for years.
Can you tell me how it is that no one tried reversing their car?
Maybe three seconds before somebody.
Exactly.
It's going to be the first fucking race sub troll.
Just go.
Yeah, but I guess I haven't seen the movie.
So they would just turn around.
They like as like you're getting into your car and stuff.
You're looking all around you.
So you just be like, oh, back there.
And obviously you could be like, that's one thing I'd be like,
yeah, there's a lot of things.
That's just the first one I remember.
It's very early in the movie.
But yes, this is a video game world.
So there's going to be stuff that can be done that I'll accept.
Like people blow up into coins.
I don't know if that's a plot hole, though.
No, it's that would be a contrivance.
It's the idea that it's contrived that nobody would ever have tried that.
So only a plot with it breaks its own logic.
Yeah.
And like I said, that's just one of many things that you just make you go, oh, come on.
Is he saying that Ready Player One does break its own logic, though?
Or is he not saying that?
I think, yeah, I think he is saying that.
But it works in Ready Player One because of its delivery, I guess.
I'm not 100% sure.
As you're watching, but it actually works to its advantage because that's the reality
that Ready Player One constructs.
It's supposed to be a fun, fast paced, quirky adventure story in a world where
anything is possible.
So the obvious dumbness.
Not anything is possible.
Not anything is possible.
It still needs to obey its own rules, you know, as ridiculous as they are.
This actually becomes a part of the amusing mood.
Me laughing at dumb stuff like the main villain having multiple personalities because of what is
essentially a series of organ transplants is a problem because it breaks my immersion into
what was once a semi-realistic world.
But when I laugh at the fact that the vast player base
Fun fact, you're making a video and you're talking.
The background music does not need to have lyrics.
Does it?
It has vocals.
Certainly.
I think they're enunciating something.
Wait, are you saying you should have chosen a song that was just instrumental?
Well, ideally, he had none.
But if you're going to choose music in the background,
don't have other voices in the back trying to sing about something.
Yeah, it's distracting.
Yeah, it's just distracting.
My immersion into what was once a semi-realistic world.
But when I laugh at the fact that the vast player base of the Oasis is playing with VR
headsets outside on the sidewalk.
Which is so retarded.
I don't understand.
I don't understand how that works whatsoever.
I guess this is my spot.
Flipping around fighting the air and somehow not hitting each other,
it actually draws me into the movie's world even more,
strengthening the sense of reality that the film constructs.
Yes, he has showed them walking and it's like, what if they walked into a wall?
Yeah, what if they walked into traffic and stuff?
Apparently, this makes it work better for him.
I don't.
Surely, you just have a controller in your hand.
I'm just doing that way.
Like, it's VR.
Look, I got a lot of guns.
I can aim way better with a mouse on a video game than I can with the real gun.
Because shooting real guns is really harder than video games.
There's no recoil with a mouse.
Unless you haven't got a modified mouse that gives you recoil.
Well, it's just casual gaming.
It's hard.
Guns are hard.
Okay, is what I'm trying to say.
Obvious surface level plot holes that you can notice while you're watching
can be a small part of the verisimilitude.
Plot holes still aren't important.
Does he feel great about saying verisimilitude?
If he said that what it means is tonal consistency, then it feels unnecessary,
but okay, fine.
I'll let you go.
I'll let you go.
Because the vast majority of them are either not noticeable while you're watching
or are such a complicated listing of the story as well.
That's not actually a definition of verisimilitude.
What is the definition?
The appearance of being true or real.
Well, I guess he's using it in a specific, he's contextualizing it as...
How come that's not applicable to plot holes exactly?
Yeah, yeah.
Fuck that.
Yeah, I'll use your big ass word, your verisimilitude.
It seems that what he's saying is that it's verisimilitude that makes,
that matters or doesn't matter.
And plot holes don't affect verisimilitude.
So they don't matter.
Or like the ones that don't affect verisimilitude don't matter.
And the response is, that's like your opinion, bro.
I wish he could use more anodyne language.
The problem is he just said...
I like it right.
People, the people just, he just said people don't notice them, which is very subjective.
Yeah, he's not really got a lot of definition.
He's just bringing in like people, they're in this and people don't care typically.
They're in this like, so people do care select sometimes.
Yeah.
It's like, logic doesn't matter because you don't use it to comfort a friend every time.
It's like, so you do do it sometimes.
You know what I mean?
The majority of them are either not noticeable while you're watching or are such a complicated
twisting of the story's logic that suspension of disbelief should allow you to just shrug it off.
Should.
People always like to...
That's not how it works. Suspension of disbelief is so subjective.
I mean, Tommy Wiseau thought that the room should be a masterpiece.
Do you know what else can pull you out is watching a film with an actor who's committed
something horrible that could ruin your suspension of disbelief because you're just like,
I can't see anyone but the guy who did the thing.
Yeah, Kevin Spacey.
Kevin Spacey, yeah.
You think I can watch a Kevin Spacey film the same way now?
I can't watch American Beauty again.
It would be like me being like fucking very similar to doesn't matter or whatever
point he's making doesn't matter.
What matters in actuality is what the actors have done.
And then I just say, you know how this movie is a thing.
I can't watch it now because Kevin Spacey.
You'd be like, oh yeah, that's what I said is true, but it's not the only example.
And that's what I could say for this video.
What you're saying is kind of true, but it's not.
Well, apart from the fact that you said plot holes don't affect it.
It's all so subjective.
They complain after they've walked out of the movie theater how the big bads grandmaster
scheme didn't actually make any sense.
But the thing is, if you didn't realize it while you were watching, it probably doesn't matter.
That's terrible logic.
It's also terrible logic.
It doesn't matter unless you notice it.
What it's just dependent on whoever noticed it.
Yeah, yeah.
Because yeah, several words are the best man.
Because that viewing experience without realizing it still exists.
And the fact that the logic doesn't make sense shouldn't be able to erase or change that
experience.
The joke shouldn't be able to shouldn't.
That's an interesting choice.
Yeah, it's almost like he accepts that it can.
But he's saying it shouldn't.
And it's like, so you say they do matter.
Yeah, if it did it 100% of the time, then there would be no failure.
Should this be called why potholes shouldn't matter IMO?
Yeah, or why potholes don't bother me or shouldn't bother anyone.
Yeah, or that would still make it for an awful video.
And he's also I think he's also partly wrong about that.
Because I have pointed that out about the guy's avatar with a transparency.
Yeah, he did.
I have.
I have pointed that out, actually.
I thought it was originally on one image, but like half of them have them and half of them
don't.
So yeah, I had that problem myself with some of my past avatars.
Yeah, but you're awful.
This guy is a scholar.
That's true.
I am all worth his content.
Yeah, that month on this video.
I'm starting to not believe that even slightly longer than I've actually been making videos.
And you've made like so many great breakdowns.
Plan in the dark night doesn't make a lick of sense, but people still love it because
it made for a more fun movie and the lack of you say it like it just makes sense.
And what is God damn, that's just too much antilogic for my brain.
And also, he's a complete psychopath.
It's going to make sense for him and his, his logic.
Yeah, if the argument is man, I'm running out of steam.
I feel like we have to keep explaining how logic works and why it affects people.
Yeah, we could, we could steamroll ahead and try to be less loquacious.
Sense isn't so noticeable as to break the movie's extremely realistic tone.
That's the thing.
So his point is it doesn't matter if it's logical as long as it maintains the tone.
Or it doesn't matter if people don't notice it.
Yes, it's so subjective.
It doesn't matter to that person if they don't notice it.
And to be tone tone is like it's a separate vehicle entirely.
Like when you're judging whether or not the plot works, you don't also consider how do
they portray this plot in the tone.
It's like, no, we're just talking about consistency here.
And A to B to C to D, we'll talk about tone another time as a separate conversation.
He's like, no, tone is the one that matters.
You have to actively disengage yourself from the story and think about its logic
to find or be bothered by a plot hole.
Yeah, what about people who do it automatically?
If you never had a problem with a movie and then figured out what it was.
Yeah, you know that you remember things, right?
And then not every experience, most of the experience you have with a movie
might not be the first viewing.
If you don't catch it, what if you hear somebody else talking about it?
What if you are sitting there at night and you think about that movie you watched,
then you're like, oh, whoa, that's actually a problem.
I'm not a fan of this whole like, you're looking for these things.
Let's be honest. You look at it.
It's like, no, they bother me.
Well, yeah, like we're I'm sorry.
We're not just we can't just swap our brains off.
I say swatch.
I I was.
So here's the story you already have.
So no.
So I was my brain.
Right.
Was like, so I switched off.
No, they swapped off.
And so I said swatched so I could have internal consistency.
Yeah, you're illogical rags.
You've proven this point time.
Look, if I said understood me, it's a word.
So fuck you.
But yeah, just just a quick example of the whole.
I don't look for them.
My brain just picks them up is when Finn is like, it's impossible for them to use
hyperdrive.
And then 10 minutes later, he's like, I know where the hyperdrive system is.
I can take it down with you.
It's like, but I thought you said you.
Your brain is betraying you by keeping memory of what the film already told you about.
Now it was a swatch.
Saren's brain.
It doesn't matter because at that point, you have actively disengaged yourself from
the story like someone sitting down for a movie.
And you keep saying it like one comes from the other every every time like you disconnect
yourself.
And then you look for plot holes as opposed to plot holes present themselves and disconnect
you from the story.
Yeah.
Stuff in the film disconnects us.
There's nothing wrong with looking for them.
And I don't I I shouldn't have to turn off my brain to enjoy a film because I use my
brain to enjoy the film.
And generally, I don't look for plot holes on my first viewing of any movie.
I just I just take it in.
I'm just like, go movie.
Well, sometimes I don't I don't care.
I just watch the film.
I don't notice anything.
But what if what about people who do watch these films and they do just genuinely want
to poke fun at things and find things?
Yeah. That's very wrong with that.
The Patrick Willems thing.
And so that's why you're watching movies.
If you don't if you don't notice them, that's OK.
If you like to notice him, notice them.
That's OK, too.
Oh, wait, it's.
Oh, wow.
So the tweet you put out, Chris.
Somebody added Cosmonaut in it.
Yeah, I was going to mention that at the end.
Yeah. He's just said, thank you.
But I'd really rather not.
It's like, what, you don't listen to five hours of nitpicks?
Yeah, probably the sparkle.
I thought we were very fair with this video.
I think we were very fair, too.
I think we're fair.
And he's welcome on any time.
I just his his video wasn't good.
His video.
Yeah, he doesn't have to watch our response.
He's always welcome to respond to it if he does and to come on here.
No hard feelings, Mr.
Cosmonaut.
I get the feeling that he's just completely moved on
and disengaged from it and wants to do other things, I guess.
Yeah, no hard feelings.
Maybe there are.
That's fine.
That's fine.
And trying not to enjoy it out of spite or whatever.
But hang on just a second.
Keep in mind that I am saying all of this from an analytical critical.
Wait, what?
So he's being serious.
I'm just trying to.
I'm going to let's know.
I'm going to go back to that still and see.
OK, here we go.
Analysis and criticism.
He says outside perspective presumes not knowing exactly how something was written,
not writing advice geared towards understanding stories, not making them.
And then we have the ritting and development side,
which says inside perspective discusses how something was or would be written.
Writing advice geared toward the process of constructing something from the ground up.
What can someone translate this?
Chris, do it.
OK, so the and now.
OK, so I guess what he's so these are the two sides of a story.
There's the person who is analyzing, analyzing is the word that I'm looking for.
Caught myself there on that one.
All right, it's what you watch the live streams for folks.
So the people who analyze and criticize are on one side and the little tick marks down there
are like how they look at it.
And then there's the writers and developers of the media and they have inside perspective
because they're the ones who are the ones making it.
Well, that's not that's not to say there can't be any crossover or there isn't any crossover.
Like a good analyst tries to understand what the writers and developers were trying to do.
So those.
This seems like a very strange line to draw.
I'm not actually sure of what he's trying to achieve with this.
When I write thing, why would you go through the trouble of writing all that out,
talk over it and not give us enough time to read it?
Well, not even talk about it, really.
Yeah, he just points to it.
I'm coming at it from the analysis and criticizing side.
And I'm like, if you wrote all this stuff down, what is it?
Like, don't just skip over it.
Don't make me pause and stop and go back.
Anyway, let's see where he's going with this.
All of this from an analytical, critical perspective.
None of this is to say that if you're a writer, you shouldn't even try to adhere to basic logic
because if you don't, you're probably going to end up with a lot of blatant
plot holes that punch holes in your verisimilitude.
Oh, video's done. Video's over. Video's over.
That's it. Come on, man.
You just shot your video. This...
What? You just...
Why would you say that in this video?
Why would you do that? The video's done.
Can you just play that again?
I've got to see that again.
On just a second, keep in mind that I am saying all of this from an analytical,
critical perspective.
None of this is to say that if you're a writer, you shouldn't even try to adhere to basic logic
because if you don't, you're probably going to end up with a lot of blatant
plot holes that punch holes in your verisimilitude.
Besides...
So, um, I'm not sure how to respond to that in any way other than...
What was the point of this video?
So, he's admitting that writers can write plot holes before a commersion.
And he's actually suggesting, hey, you may as well write logically, though.
I can't remember what the context was, but Rags was just like, hey, why not be consistent?
Just be consistent may as well.
Oh, man. How do you recover from that?
If you're utilizing elements from reality, such as with historical fiction,
or just trying to represent real-world things in your fiction, like police forces,
for example, it is your duty to do your research and represent whatever it is.
That's when you're supposed to do it.
Oh, you have a duty.
Duty.
Is your representing as accurately as possible so as to avoid spreading misinformation?
I don't disagree with him on that.
However, um, that's not the only instance in which that's important.
I guess he's saying that's a real-world result.
But that's so weird to say, after just saying that it's
important to just do it anyway to avoid blatant plot holes.
So, here's the thing.
This is interesting.
So, Apokolipto, I really liked.
I really liked Apokolipto.
I don't know anything about South American culture because fuck it.
I don't care.
So, if they have inaccuracies about ancient Mesoamerican, Incan, Aztec culture,
whatever it was, I'm not going to know.
So, it might be a plot hole in its face.
Or an inconsistency with real life would be more accurate.
Do you believe the film, though?
Do you think that what they portray in the film is what happened back then?
No, it's fiction.
He's saying it's a problem if you said yes.
But this is actually interesting because me and Chris actually had a-
Yeah, we were talking about Braveheart.
We had a long conversation on this.
And I guess what I said was that if it's clear...
Well, typically, I don't think there is a film that's 100% accurate
because by the logic of it being a movie, movies tend to absolutely break reality
because they have to to make a movie.
But a documentary, they have the responsibility
because as far as you're aware, they are 100% accurate
because it's the whole point of making a documentary
while with a movie or telling a story.
So, I've never taken Braveheart, Patriot, or Apokolipto.
I like all three of those films.
I've never thought of them as accurate.
I've always been like, yeah, these are just sort of taking stuff
and then playing with it.
But there are people who do.
Yeah, there are people that do.
And the problem is that they're not just inaccurate.
They're deliberately misleading.
And they make moral points about real life people.
And real life countries that people will then...
Some people will then take and apply to the present.
Which, you know, is something that...
I don't think filmmakers need to bear in mind.
It's important.
It's a complicated subject. It is important.
It's complicated, yeah.
In relation to this video, he's saying this is a time where it matters
and it has real world consequences.
And I'm not even disagreeing. I just don't see...
Yeah, but that's nothing to do with plot holes.
And it's not a relevance now.
He's just said that they do matter sometimes.
So I'm just like, what?
Let me listen to that again.
Besides, if you're utilizing elements from reality,
such as with historical fiction or just trying to represent real world...
Didn't you say historical fiction?
I think he means like a piece of fiction that's based off of historical events.
By definition, historical fiction wouldn't have to adhere to fact.
Well, there are limits.
It doesn't.
It's more like often the authentic nature of it.
If that's the genre, like absurdist or alt history,
they don't actually have to do it.
They haven't got a responsibility to do anything.
If they're especially...
They don't have a responsibility or like a duty.
But a lot of the times it can make the quality better in a lot of people's eyes.
Yeah, I think we bring in glorious bastards is obviously a good example of like,
say they want to have the scene where they blow Hitler away with machine guns.
You can't do that and remain consistent with what happened in history.
You know what I mean?
They're deliberately breaking from history for that.
Yeah, but I think basically everyone knows what really happened to Hitler and stuff though,
whereas not that many people actually know about the Aztecs and the Maya.
I'm just talking about the concept from the from the base.
The idea that you don't like, if you're doing old history or historical inaccuracies,
you're welcome to go crazy if you want to do it for the movie.
But we did bring this up in our conversation as well.
What if someone out there watches in glorious bastards and said,
I can't believe that's how Hitler died.
That's crazy.
Have they have they now dealt the same damage as somebody who said
the Scottish never raped and pillaged anybody in the wars against the English?
Yeah, it's contextual.
Don't don't look to, you know, Hollywood for your, I mean, yeah,
I would never recommend learning history from movies.
They're a good jumping off point.
You can be like, I'm gonna go search for what really happened now.
But to get you interested, maybe, but I wouldn't go further than that.
But basically, none of this has anything to do with plot holes.
I don't understand why he's trying to argue here.
I don't either.
Things in your fiction, like police forces, for example,
it is your duty to do your research and represent whatever it is you're representing as accurate.
You could have a consistent plot and bad research.
So yeah, what does this have to do with?
Yeah, yeah.
Now he's just talking about inaccuracy, which is very different subject.
Yeah, yeah.
...as possible so as to avoid spreading misinformation.
In that regard, real life accuracy and plot holes can be important.
And in a perfect world, you'd be...
How, please?
How?
Like, I want to, that's the thing, I would want to know how.
Well, what does he mean by real life plot hole?
I'm confused.
Yeah, like, how can the real life inaccuracies be a problem?
Like, especially for Apokolipto, he brings it up.
But I don't want to watch a whole other video to learn about a little segment of his video.
I guess his point is that it contradicts the reality of the situation so much that it can
force people out of the experience.
Like, is he saying that's a plot hole when the fiction is inconsistent with the reality,
or that the fiction is inconsistent with itself and it's also misrepresenting reality?
Yeah, I don't think it's a plot hole because it's internally consistent.
It's a different issue.
I love how his little casual comments have just thrown us for a complete loop.
We're just like, we gotta break this old down essay for a while.
He's just like, why say that?
Yeah, exactly, yeah.
It would be like a super compelling plot with characters that feel like real people
in deep thematic exploration with no plot holes or real life inaccuracies at all.
But here's the thing.
Writing is hard.
No shit.
No shit.
Okay, so writing is hard in the sense that...
Well, hey, he's gonna make a point, right?
I would say this.
Writing is as complicated as you want to make it.
Like, really, really hard.
So hard, in fact, that in all my years of trying, I still haven't quite figured out how to do it yet.
Yeah, I know, because after seven rewrites, this video's a joke.
Come on, leave the poor man alone.
You're it, you're it.
But we know...
We could explain that for all it was, aren't we?
We know that you know that writing is hard.
We get it.
And neither have a lot of people who think they have.
In order for a story to feel coherent, you have to get a lot of seemingly disparate elements
to all come together and line up perfectly.
Like, trying to get a-
No, not perfectly.
Oh, he's skimming over such broad topics.
Like, now he's just said, like, there are so many things that are in writing
that can conflict with each other.
And it's like, so let's talk about-
No, we're not talking about that?
Okay.
If the elements of the story are so disparate that it's difficult to pull them together,
that's a problem with the story.
Maybe you should get good, then.
Get good, scrub.
Like, I mean, seriously, because what this is, is you're saying,
writing is hard, let's lower our standards.
It does sound like that's where he's going, but we'll see.
Yeah, let's hear what he has to say.
It acquired a harmonize, except the choir is made up of demons running around,
constantly shape-shifting, and some of which you need to kill if you want to get a good sound.
When you write, there's going to be a lot of times when sacrifices must be made to
preserve the narrative.
And when it comes down to-
I hate that logic.
That's called bad writing.
Hey, when people are just like, you just have to give up, you got nothing.
It's like, what do you mean?
Yeah, that's-
Yeah, I hate that one, man.
Right after I said it, lower your standards, just accept the fact
that there's going to be a broken element of your story instead of not having it be there,
instead of fixing it, instead of working around of it, instead of doing the work.
Just to give you an example, if they go, episode nine, we're bringing Vader back,
and then someone goes, you can't do that, he's dead.
And it's like, we're not going to let some annoying inconsistency get in the way
of us trying to actually create art here.
They'd be like-
Maybe you should get good, then.
They'd be like, and they go, suggest a way to get Vader back without getting in the way of that.
And I'd be like, why are we getting Vader back?
Stop.
Just stop.
Two people back to back in the chat were like, doom is too good for this vid.
And what was doom doing there?
I don't know.
The children's choir were made up of demons that can shapeshift.
They're not the youth.
It's not first off.
They didn't choose to be there.
Their parents told them to be there.
Okay.
That's your opinion.
Yes, it is.
To a choice between erasing a plot hole or creating a tighter, more compelling story,
the correct choice should be obvious.
You can make fun of Reki Kawahara all day for not-
Not an either-or.
It's not an either-or.
Search, but I'm sure none of you would care if SAO was actually a masterpiece.
Just the same-
What?
None of you would care if it was a masterpiece.
That's the whole reason.
Maybe the chat can confirm that.
Guys, would you care if SAO was extremely well written?
Would you care?
Like, I don't even-
I don't care about Sword Art Online, but I would care in the sense that I want it to be good
because then other people would enjoy it.
I'm sorry.
It's just like-
No, it's like people were like, you're gonna play Spider-Man?
It's like, no, but I hope it's great so that-
It's not like we want stuff to be bad.
The idea is like he's just established that the flaws in writing will pull people out,
and then he says, but no one would care if it was flawless.
It's like, yeah, they would.
Like, I think we'd all love for the Last Jedi to be good.
I would love for the Last Jedi to be good, but we live in the timeline where it's garbage,
so I'm just gonna-
And this isn't necessarily-
This isn't a necessarily definitive question, but the recurse said,
how can something be coherent without logic?
And that is- how do you answer that question?
Is it possible for someone to be coherent without logic?
No.
Let me check.
What does coherent actually mean?
Well, it means it's consistent with itself.
It's logical and consistent.
That's apparently what it means.
It has to work logic in its definition.
That's great.
No, I don't- I mean-
Oh, forming a unified whole is another definition.
I think without some kind of logical rules binding stuff together,
it's just things happening that are similar to each other, but coincidental.
You know, there's no consistency or-
Why does he carry his swords on his back?
He can't pull those out.
Shh, Geralt can do it.
That's your opinion.
That's the Legorex.
No, the game's established it.
Yeah, they just phase through.
That's how he opens it.
It's a video game, right?
It doesn't even make sense.
Okay.
Same way as all of us are perfectly capable of enjoying SAO Abridged despite its plot holes.
Because at the end of the day, that kind of stuff has nothing to do with how a story functions.
The bare bones amount of logic you need to telecom-
He used that functions word again.
I don't think he knows what it means.
Yeah, and also bare bones logic.
This guy takes the fun out of function.
Hey, that's good.
That kind of stuff has nothing to do with how a story functions.
The bare bones amount of logic you need to tell a compelling story
is simply enough so that the audience can follow the story.
How much is that?
How much is enough, dude?
How long is a piece of string?
Yes.
I mean, tell me, what is the bare bones amount of logic?
That gravity exists?
Or that, like, the laws of nature?
And that's when you get to the point where it's like this video is just him being like,
it only matters as much as it matters to me, okay?
It's got nothing to do with principles of logic or anything.
Shut up.
I was hoping he'd elaborate on it, but so far he's said absolutely nothing.
Short afro man, someone made a sheath for that.
Shadowversity?
Yeah, he did.
We've spoken.
He's a good guy.
I watch his video.
Take connections and be engaged.
Everything else is extra.
So why is everyone so obsessed with this doesn't make any sense?
Oh, God, is he going to do the Patrick Wilms thing and come up with a conspiracy
that what website started the obsession with this?
Do you remember that?
Yeah, I hate the obsession.
People are obsessed.
Yeah, we notice it.
It doesn't keep us awake at night.
We're like, yeah, this is the thing.
This is an element of the film.
I could turn it around and say, oh, yeah, well, the things that you care about.
How come you're obsessed with those?
Yeah, why are you obsessed with defending sort of online?
That's the thing.
Obsessed is a loaded word.
Yeah, it's got baggage to it, and it's not necessary for this usage.
And it's not.
You shouldn't use it.
So the characters could have just done that.
Whenever people present these obvious logical solutions, I always have to ask,
would you have enjoyed the story better that way?
It's not about whether or not we enjoy it more.
Sometimes, yeah.
That's the thing.
Sometimes you will enjoy it.
This is what I mean by it's not it's not based on that.
It's just it's as valid as it is on its own.
It's about being.
Okay, so I go.
This is a logical inconsistent.
This is what happened with just right.
I say this is a logical inconsistency and he goes, it doesn't bother me.
And I go, that's fine, but it is a logical inconsistency.
And he goes, yeah, but it doesn't bother me.
And I'm like, that's fine.
You agree that it's a logical inconsistency?
And it's like, yeah, but it doesn't matter.
It's like, oh, my God, I didn't ask you how much it matters to you.
That's not what I'm asking you.
You guys are the question.
Where are the other drugs going?
Erase some of these plot holes and the entire story disappears.
Oh, yeah, just to clarify, the reason I don't ask how much it
matters because it literally changes from every single person on this fucking planet.
That's what's why what we mean by subjective.
We have no way to just say this matters to the people this much
other than the fucking averages, which is useless.
Everyone's like Lord of the Rings, SpongeBob crossover.
And by the way, I think it is a good idea that you're pausing it every few seconds
because otherwise, all the claims.
Oh, because the Lord of the Rings music.
Yeah, Lord of the Rings music.
Yeah.
Ends right at the beginning.
Why didn't they just use the Eagles?
Well, because then Lord of the Rings would just.
Stop trying to defend it.
We did a better job than you already.
We've sorted this one out.
You don't need to do it.
11 hours of Frodo complaining about a ring while him and the fellowship ride some giant Eagles.
We don't experience stories because we want to see people do the most logical thing and make
Oh, Patrick Willems, I can hear your voice through this poor boy.
People aren't logical.
When people are logical, they're not human.
It has to be believable.
We have to be able to get invested in it.
I mean, I know that is also a bit subjective.
People aren't logical, dude.
Well, that's partly true and partly not.
No, it's definitive.
You've never made a logical decision in your life.
Never.
No, not at all.
Never.
You're me pressing this play button to make the video play.
That's just a lucky coincidence.
I don't actually have any logical decision making there.
As I said before, when people say you're acting illogically,
they notice it and it's bad.
It stands out.
Right choice.
Every time we experience them because we want to see characters mess up and make mistakes.
Account for those mistakes.
As if that's not a logical thing that can help you.
Yeah, you can make mistakes and still be logical and consistent and believable.
Yeah, logical doesn't mean perfect.
I said, man, it's using the same word two different ways.
This is the same point that Patrick made.
Yeah.
Their circumstances, their own flaws or both, and witnesses satisfying conclusion to this battle.
In other words, we experience stories for the conflict.
If everyone is always making the correct decision and everything works out perfectly.
It's the exact same point Patrick made.
You can't have conflict if everyone's logical.
It's eerily similar, isn't it?
It is eerily similar.
Jesus, wow.
What a shitty fucking point.
I could see Patrick watching this and being like, I'll add a few points into my video.
I could see this video made before.
Apparently, let me check.
This is August 17.
And Patrick's Patrick plot holes.
Imagine being stupid enough to be convinced by this.
Because I think my plot holes video came out.
August 27th was Patrick Willems.
So one week after.
That's interesting.
It's interesting, isn't it?
Yeah, not saying anything.
No accusations, it's just interesting to think about.
It's interesting.
But I mean, Jesus, imagine actually thinking when someone says,
if everyone behaved logically, you couldn't have a good story or drama or anything.
I'm like, no, like the opposite is true.
Like the literal opposite is true.
I just like that predator example I gave you guys.
Just like give me an example of a character acting against logic.
It's a stupid word being used two different ways.
Because just give me an example of a character acting illogically.
And then they would, let's just say Boromir in Lord of the Rings when he's going after Frodo.
And I'd be like, that's explained logically.
He wants the power to protect his people.
He thinks the ring will be able to be used as a weapon against Sauron.
It makes complete sense why he's going after him,
even though it's actually attacking one of your fellowship members.
So that's fucked up.
It's an emotional decision, but it's logically consistent.
Do you understand the difference?
Yeah.
And it's also this idea that if people are logical,
there will be no conflict, which is nonsense.
It's just nonsense.
Because people's goals and people's goals and desires and things differ.
So they're going to come into conflict anyway.
Terrible argument.
Conflict.
However, if you would just step back and let these characters make mistakes,
you could actually realize that a lot of these mistakes.
Also, I like the irony that he's using logic to explain how logic doesn't work.
Good job.
It's flawed logic.
No, of course characters can make mistakes.
It's just which ones and why.
You know, it's all about the context.
Inform character and improve the plot.
Why didn't Holdo just tell Poe her plan in the last year?
Well, because the movie just established that.
Holy shit.
That's like one for one with Patrick's video.
God, wow.
This is this is so scary.
You saved everyone's life.
We're not going to tell you the plan.
Okay, you could you could tear up his and Patrick's videos and play the clips side by side.
I mean, we could I mean, yeah, we could spend half an hour talking about this.
Just one point.
Yeah, we did go over it.
The Patrick Williams.
I think that's like episode three of the fat.
But I mean, Jesus Christ never be at the point in your story where you say,
I need this stupid thing to happen to tell my story.
Oh, no, that sounds like you've got a shitty ass story, doesn't it?
It's like you might want to find the solutions to this.
All you need to do is have it established that Holdo knows there's a mole on board.
He doesn't know who it is.
We have found the originator.
Think about this, right?
What do you what do you think of this idea?
Holdo announces there's a mole and the whole film was led to believe it's it's Poe.
And he's prevented from knowing the plan.
He's all this other stuff happens.
It turns out it's Holdo at the end and that she only did it as a sort of red herring
to keep people away from her from trying to sabotage the whole thing.
Thing is, if she if she said, you know, she said that Poe is a mole,
no one would believe it because Poe just destroyed a dreadnought for her plan.
Well, he destroyed the Starkiller base.
This is this is the point where I mean, I would also tie in that what I just said
counters the fact that Holdo is supposed to play the role of a hero at the end of the film.
So that gets thrown out.
So the rewrites would not stop there.
They would just keep going until I fix the entire film.
Oh, shit.
I've just written a different film anyway.
Also, yeah, a couple of bringing this up.
It's like when the initial conversations were going about whether or not
Poe was supposed to be a mole in this film, people were saying that the most classic
examples of turncoats or like moles in things are often war heroes.
I didn't look into this, but is that as I got any credence?
I would say that this is just going off of me sitting here in this chair.
Okay, so my thought process would be that the only moles that are famous that we would hear
about would be the famous ones, the ones that the ones that aren't famous and who are just
a bunch of nobodies, we would probably never know their name.
Well, even if it was true, I wouldn't be able to believe it.
Anyway, he literally just destroyed one of the most impressive and important pieces of
first order technology ever.
And what the following morning, they sent him a text and said, would you be on our side now?
Yes, like what could they possibly offer him?
That's the thing, like, he is a war hero.
Yeah, why would he accept that?
I mean, like, I mean, like Benedict Arnold was sort of a war hero, kind of,
but that's a long story.
But I would think that the ones who have worked the hardest for their side would be the ones
most invested in protecting their side.
I always find it funny that a common argument is Poe is the only one who wasn't told the plan.
Do you remember how many people commit mutiny with him?
Yeah, yeah.
Like, did anyone know a lot of people are on his side enough to to pull off a successful mutiny?
People are like, fuck, we're gonna die here.
We gotta do something.
God, the film sucks.
I mean, it's like you said, Mahler.
It's like you said earlier.
I was like, what if they gave gave him a gun and said, point this at your head and shoot it up?
You didn't do it.
Well, you're insubordinate.
We can't trust you now.
I, by the way, more, I started watching your five hour series last year.
I'm about halfway through.
I'm actually really enjoying it.
Oh, that's awesome, man.
I was half expecting you to say you'd started bleeding, but I was like, oh, no, good.
That blood hasn't started yet.
Yeah, that that was made with pure passion.
I was just like, there's so much wrong in every scene of this goddamn film.
I really, I really just want to move on.
Rabbids asking, what good would it be to waste the resources of Starkiller Base by
having it destroyed by a mole?
Yeah, well, I was, I didn't even entertain the idea that he's been a mole the whole time
because nobody would sacrifice a weapon like that to convince the opposition that
they have a mole.
That's stupid.
Like, what are you doing?
Yeah, like, holy.
I mean, I will admit it would be pretty convincing.
It would.
Damn.
But why would they bother doing that?
Instead of just blowing them up with that weapon.
Doesn't make any sense.
We'll trade our super weapon for a mole.
By the way, super weapon's our planet.
Yeah, as opposed to a weapon, you know,
as opposed to a weapon that can destroy the resistance in one go.
Anyway, sorry.
You don't think about these things on a first viewing, guys.
You don't notice it.
It's fine.
Well, because the movie just established that he is highly insubordinate and that
Holdo doesn't trust him for a second.
He's highly insubordinate after destroying the Starkiller Base.
He was right and she was wrong.
Yeah, that's another important part.
Holdo is supposed to be a great general.
So she knows that she never shows it.
She's the only she should know that the only reason she's breathing right now
is because Poe destroyed the Dreadnought.
The only reason anyone's alive right now is because Poe made the good call.
Jay just said it could have been like a clone.
First order could have a clone of Poe.
Something like you could try and figure out a way to write that.
Maybe that would be contrived because you just be like,
since when was what since when was this a thing?
But you could work with that.
Poe.
So for the love of God, can we stop citing plot holes as actual criticisms?
Actually, make a better fucking video.
Make a better argument.
Maybe we'll listen to you.
No, because they all can be valid criticisms.
So no, you literally shot your own.
Yeah, he's already argued against himself.
Seven rewrites, man.
Co-uploading, God damn it.
Co-uploading.
I would I would love to see what the first six were.
Well, like if this passes, if this is good enough for his standard,
I would love to know what didn't.
It's like those early scripts of the of the room you hear about.
Oh, yeah.
It's just I hate the words real genuine, actual like these these words where they
Joseph Anderson did it.
He said a genuine, genuinely terrified when a game genuinely terrifies you,
not when it like, you know, fake terrifies you.
It's like, what does that even work?
Stop using these words.
It's like gatekeeping.
Yeah.
It's not based in any principle.
Please.
It just drives me crazy because whenever someone brings one up,
they always seem like they're trying to outsmart the story.
Like they've just proven this is literally the same thing that Patrick said.
Yeah, Patrick did this too.
This is getting a little bit creepy now.
If somebody told me you're only making that argument to feel smart,
I'd be like, I don't care.
I wouldn't write.
Yeah, that's not even that's almost a fallacy.
Some people do, but it doesn't.
It doesn't invalidate the criticism.
Yeah.
Yes, this is not an argument.
It's genuine gatekeeping.
Intelligent to be fooled by the silly writer who devoted a large portion of their life
and sanity to I don't care if it sucks.
It sucks.
Oh, my God, really?
Talk about Tommy Wiseau.
Yeah, that's the thing, man.
It doesn't matter if you worked for, oh, I don't know, 11 months and had,
I don't know, seven rewrites on something.
If it's shit, it's shit.
Such a woe is me argument.
It's like, we stopped talking about the criticisms.
This man put his life to work.
It's like, okay.
This poor, extremely famous, very rich director.
This poor, poor guy, this poor household name.
Can I please highlight that this person who made this video
redrafted his own script six more times than Ryan Johnson did.
Or seven times, probably, I guess you'd say.
So it must have been so many kids so much about to just shit out one script and go with it.
Yep, that's his baby.
Yeah.
Do we explain why a story was that?
I mean, he's talking about how Ryan Johnson poured out a large port of his heart and sanity.
He's like, what do you think it was to watch it?
Also, what about the people who put all their work into making criticism videos?
Is their hard work worth anything?
Yeah, Mahler was your hard work.
Yeah, the force awakens.
I know you haven't been working really hard or anything on it.
No, no.
No, it's very whatever.
He just rambled one day into a recording and threw it on some trailer footage and then
uploaded.
That's what it was.
Yeah, this is a feeling thing.
And I don't care.
And I'm not going to play that game.
No, we're not.
Try again.
There who devoted a large portion of their life and sanity,
deporting everything they had into their work.
If anyone ever wants to explain why a story was bad in their opinion,
plot holes are always the first thing to come up.
Yeah, except when they're not.
Except when they're not.
Sometimes they do.
Sometimes they don't.
Depends on who you ask.
And it means nothing if it comes up first or last.
Just gets on my nerves.
There you go.
There you go.
That's the motivation for the video right there.
And it just gets on my nerves.
It gets on my nerves.
Okay, let me back up.
Yeah, that story.
Like they've just proven that they're too intelligent to be fooled by the silly writer
who devoted a large portion of their life and sanity, deporting everything they had into their work.
If anyone ever wants to explain why a story was bad in their opinion,
plot holes are always the first thing to come up.
And it just gets on my nerves.
Because focusing on plot logic like this is such an unhelpful way to go about looking in a narrative.
No, it's not.
Loads of writers find this extremely helpful because they can learn from it.
So screw you.
Loads of writers value well-written stories and they want to grow after well-written stories.
They value well-written criticism.
Yeah.
And to say that it doesn't matter is to devalue people that don't put in any effort.
To devalue people that do put in effort.
When someone says, let's just go with that Looper example.
They go, that plot hole is, it exists.
And then it's on you to be like, okay, now tell me why it matters.
That's the next part of the conversation.
Just because they point one out doesn't mean you now have to hate the film.
This is again about the cult context thing.
Because I could have said I love Looper and I really don't care about that one plot hole
because it doesn't really matter.
I could have said that.
I don't get this, this defeatist attitude from people.
Plot holes have defeated us.
They were just like, oh, we just, we just stop talking about plot holes.
We're just going to lower our standards.
These are supposed to be the people who are the, you know, the critics and they're the
ones who know all about the good writing and, and they're the ones who are saying just
standard, just drop your standards.
Don't worry about it.
Just make your shitty story.
And you can't, I mean, they're the ones who are saying you can't expect.
Writing is hard so you can't expect good writing.
Yeah, but they made something.
Therefore they've, they've achieved some kind of like, everybody gets a trophy.
But I'm sorry, if you're asking, I'm sorry, but if you're asking me to pay money to see your film,
I cannot accept no standards in writing.
I can't just accept, oh, because it's hard that these problems aren't problems.
I might be willing to overlook them depending on the context.
So I don't know.
Simpsons actually, I won't forget.
Simpsons was actually in the chat and he said he actually liked Looper because like I did too.
I like Looper.
Yeah, I, I, I'd say I like Looper, but I have a lot of writing issues with it.
It's very relevant to what's going on right now.
It's possible to do both.
That's the thing.
Yeah.
Both the subjective versus the objective.
They can, the objective information can affect your subjective experience both before and after
finding it out as in like, you know, you, you, you experience X, then someone breaks down all
the plot stuff to you and then you watch it again.
And now you experience Y.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't you want to ask these people, don't you want writing to get better?
Don't you want stories to be good?
How does this help towards encouraging better writing?
Well, I found it interesting that he references how, you know,
Ryan poured his heart and soul into it.
And it's like, so what about the guy over there that poured double that to make the
story incredibly consistent and even more, uh, widen in breadth of, of what it covers.
Do we appreciate them both the same or do we say exactly what YMS said in Patrick's video
in the comment?
Yeah.
Like recognize when people achieve greatness and encourage it, encourage it when they don't
encourage people to do better and don't devalue the efforts of those that try.
Yes.
Otherwise we're just going to get lost Jedi over and over again.
And we'll just say in chat, it's like this anti meritocratic kind of attitude, you know,
just another thing.
I'm not, I'm not saying like Ryan Johnson, stop making films.
You can't do it whatsoever.
He'd be like, learn from this Ryan Johnson, please, please.
Yeah.
Learn from your mistakes and get better.
Like we're not saying don't make movies.
I mean, some people probably would say some people, I mean, yes.
Yes.
So there's nothing wrong with it.
But so he's probably not going to learn fucking shit.
Well, no,
but we can hope.
All right.
One minute.
I, I want it.
Yeah.
I want to see what the rest of what he has to say.
It completely misses the point of what storytelling is really about and tends to lead to a lot of
really about again.
It's exactly what Patrick Wilham said.
Tends to do a lot of genuine works of art being this genuine again.
Oh my God.
Stop using these words.
Smith.
I should probably clarify.
There's nothing wrong with just poking fun at or chatting about stories this way.
How it should have ended is one of my favorite YouTube channels.
They're hilarious, but there's a reason.
These are parodies and not genuine criticism.
Oh my God.
Stop using that word.
Sometimes they, I think sometimes some of the examples they use are genuine though.
Yeah, they play it in a joking way.
Yeah.
You can't, you know, I mean, the point of the channel is comedy, right?
But that doesn't mean the examples they're using can't be, you know, valid.
What other words are there?
Genuine, real, actual.
Valid.
Yeah, valid.
Legitimate, valid, legitimate.
True, real, proper, genuine.
Yeah.
I'm just going to throw that in a parody video.
I guess.
Maybe.
Or a V.
Yeah.
Real.
Or a V.
Yeah.
Oh, look at his face now.
Look at his face.
He's so serious.
He's angry and he's closer to the screen.
But yeah.
He, she, and I do not trailers and cinema sins.
By the way, all three of them are parody satire comedy plus because this is the thing.
This is what cinema since claims.
So don't take my word for it.
But you'll find genuine, real, actual criticism inside these videos along with jokes.
And this is a thing that can happen.
I mean, it was happening in Cosmonauts video.
He's making some jokes.
And at the same time, we were like, wait, is that because that is.
Where it comes from does not change the merit of the argument being made.
Then is that plot holes do not matter.
No, he's wrong.
What about all the times you told us they do matter?
Well, that's all the times you'd made it.
Yeah.
So the next time you want to criticize a story for a plot hole, ask yourself,
is the plot hole really the reason I dislike this story or am I just trying to feel like an
intellectual who said that it was.
I'm sorry, but this is the same thing with just right.
I said I explained the issue with with Holdo.
And then he said something along the lines of like, it didn't bother me.
It clearly bothered you.
And I was like, I didn't tell you if it bothered me.
I'm just talking about its existence so far.
Yeah, you're trying to assume like he's assuming how we should feel about it.
He's assuming that I don't like the film because of a plot hole when it's like,
no, I just want to talk about its existence.
It's like you understand and then and then like we can determine how important it is to the plot
as in if it causes a major thing to happen that the whole film is about that's big or if it's
the existence of a lamp that was smashed.
Yeah, like a plot hole might make it make a film bad in the context of everything else,
or it might not.
But it might make you feel intelligent.
And he doesn't like you could say that about literally any film criticism.
Well, yes, incorrect makes me feel intelligent.
Fucking silly.
And the reason is that plot holes do not matter.
So the next time you want to criticize a story for a plot hole, ask yourself,
is the plot hole really the reason I dislike this story?
Or am I just trying to feel like an intellectual?
Because no, ask yourself if the plot hole that you pointed out is actually a plot hole.
Yeah.
Yeah, that'll be a good start.
Yeah, that's fair.
Find out if your argument is a valid one.
If it is good, if it isn't good, you've still found you've found out.
You've learned, you've grown, explored, you've grown, you've improved.
Don't lower your standards because of guys like this.
You don't think it.
Yeah, just because not everything that everyone says is a plot is a
poll is a plot hole doesn't mean the plot holes don't exist or don't matter.
If you really genuinely dislike something, I can promise you that a good 95% of the time,
the logic is not the problem.
I'm glad you know me so well.
Yeah, fuck you, you piece of fucking shit.
Even if it's your thing is, even if it's only 5%, it still matters.
Yeah, so one out of 20 times I'm right.
Yeah, this is, he keeps telling us way different ways that it matters.
That he's also like, I don't though.
Seven rewrites.
All right.
Well, Tana McEvity will extend the same.
McEvity?
McEvity?
I don't know.
McVity's.
Music is too loud.
Oh, where's the old McEvity?
McEvity child Tanner.
He's over there.
He's down there in the basement making his videos on the plots or whatnot.
Same goes for Cosmodal, obviously, but you're welcome to come on, if you'd like to clarify
your position on plot holes, but I defend your shitty ass video and tell me what I'm thinking.
No more.
Yeah, no hard feelings, but the video wasn't very good.
No hard feelings, but fuck you.
And that's another two on the list of, they weren't very good.
More people who are going to block you on Twitter.
Oh, God.
Oh, wait, I don't have to worry about that anymore.
But yeah, that's it.
I'll quickly go through the super chats, but I think we're, five hours is pretty strong, I think.
People are basically saying, no, if it's not six hours, it's short.
I'm like, please, no.
Oh, God, we've seen a terrible presence.
You only have yourself to blame.
This is true.
You're your destiny.
Multiply from the Holy Grail to campy plot hole matter not.
I think that that's some Shakespearean quote right there.
The trolls in Mordor's armies are Oleg High war trolls, which Sauron magically modified
to be war beasts.
They can speak, but only in black speech.
Well, I mean, I don't think that's in the film, but I've always assumed that you remember
the scene where they kill Sauron and then the troll just wakes up sort of and just goes
off, fucking runs away.
It's supposed to be an implication that he was being controlled.
I keep missing starts to streams due to GMT plus 10.
But keep up the good work, guys.
Still on the edge of my seat for the TFA breakdown.
It's on its way.
Imagine if Wolf were here eating this, hearing this guy straw manning the wolf wouldn't be happy.
He'd be very angry.
Swordheart online is shite.
Jojo equals best current anime.
Fair enough.
Pass the bleach.
I'm getting thirsty.
Wonderful.
Robot Chicken makes every well written.
Robot Chicken makes every well written, I guess.
Oh, is it because they do a lot of plot correction parody stuff?
Yeah.
Yeah, they do.
Guys, parodies don't matter.
I think I think a lot of people picked up on your your criticism of his lettering ranks.
They did.
There's two super chats related to it.
Oh, my God.
See, that was just me.
It wasn't just me.
If you ever need a weeb consultant, let me know.
This is going to be I know that there's plenty of people in chat.
We were going to suggest you're all our weeb consultants for that.
This guy you don't know about.
Psycho past one and a few.
I've watched your TLJ review three times now and I wasn't bored.
But in all seriousness, I really enjoyed it.
Do you both I know Rags knows the reference.
Do you know that one, Chris?
No, the board is the it's I hate everything's video where you said the third time you watched
The Last Jedi wasn't bored.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It's just like a third time.
Anyone notice how similar holder is to Matt Adam Malkovich from Metroid other M.
I've not played it deliberately because I keep hearing about it.
This super chat is just my opinion.
Your super chat is offensive.
No, you.
Good stuff, guys.
Thank you very much for the donations.
Would since we're sort of wrapping up now.
A wonderful guest today has been or tonight or whatever.
Yeah, it is.
It is this morning now for me and Chris over in Britain.
It is.
How was I would you want to do you want to say some stuff about your channel and why
these people should jump right over and subscribe immediately?
You should subscribe because of my voice.
Yeah, so I basically have a channel in which I essentially take the piss out of things.
Mostly movies, but like whatever I can make a good good video on and just take the piss out of it.
I also do sometimes to make more serious criticism videos.
So I did one on Patrick Willems's plot holes video and one on Disenchanted, for example.
Yes, start start with the Patrick Willems one, guys.
If you like my stuff and rags, you'll be like, that'll be a good.
Yeah, that's that's how that's how these guys found me in the first place.
Yeah.
Yeah, I do like that video, but I can't rewatch it because I find him so cringy.
Even though he has an opinion.
So do why.
That's true.
Um, but yeah, I just like to have a laugh, basically.
So, um, yeah.
No, good stuff.
I've had a lot of fun.
Obviously, you know, guys, way to catch me in rags.
I assume you're fans of us.
If you're on this ridiculously terrible, uh, how could you rags bite him?
I'm just using you for views.
Yeah, uh, the re upload.
The re upload of this video will be on that link.
I've just posted the second channel.
And, um, yeah, thanks for coming on.
Uh, Chris, would you, would you like to come on again sometime if we find some
more plot hole related videos?
Not just plot hole videos.
No, so plot holes videos are off limits.
Star Wars is off limits.
You have to find someone else.
It's now become like a meme on my channel.
Spider-Man's off limits.
So yeah, but yeah, I worked.
Yeah, it's been fun.
Good stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that's, that's about it.
In closing, do you want to, do you want to say anything ranks?
Um, send sins, uh, cinema, sin, sin, sin said that I just checked the guy's
channel and he appears to have a video bashing infinity war.
Oh, you know what?
I'll have a look into that.
Maybe we'll cover that next time.
Or we can cover it with, uh, when cinema, sin, sin comes back on.
Cause I think he'd probably want to do that.
We shall see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That'd be cool.
I was actually going to say we can both do it.
Uh, rags want to give an update for, uh, video stuff coming.
Yes.
I'm working on a video.
Um, but I'm also right now, I should probably finish it tonight.
Um, I have to do the tedious work of assembling all of the new art assets,
which is like 300 images right now, but I have about half of it done.
And it's just, it's really tedious, but I can finish that up today.
Um, and then those will be ready.
And then whenever I get new stuff, I just add it to the old stuff,
but it's just, it's a long process, but I've got it aligned out.
Um, it looks really, really good.
I think you guys are really, really like it.
Exciting stuff.
Um, my videos are just consistently on their way.
That's I wish I could say more, but I mean, without going into detail,
that'll bore the crap out of you.
The, I've got Patriot updates.
They're all free.
You can just check out all the details of, uh, I got posts of my timeline and
what's going to be in them and when I expect things to be done.
So if you guys are super curious, that's where you can find the information.
But we'll do probably, um, we'll, we'll keep up the weekly faps.
It's, it's good to get an EFAP done every week.
I'd say make sure it's healthy.
I think you guys would agree with that.
Um, so next time we'll figure out who may or may not be guessing.
You never know with these things.
And, uh, what we'll be covering is a complete mystery as well.
But thank you all for the very kind donations and the company you provided.
I hope you had fun and we shall see you next time.
Bye.
