It's a record. It's a record. We responded 20 minute video in five minutes connecting
I don't know if that's gonna separate it just don't need to like refresh the chat
Chat say and welcome back. Yeah, I don't get anything. Hang on. I'll just redo it
Okay, well 385 people are here so I guess I can restart the story of Jared
So anyway Jared he lost his mind deleted his channel made a new one and said he is a man of substance and that he is
32 years old and he wants more people that are 32 years old just like him
Which I don't know why the fuck he would be so specific with that. Mm-hmm, but
Let it rip on rags, isn't it? Oh, yeah, he should talk rags for a while and
The the ballot of Jared that's wonderful
Um
but basically Jared said that he wants more people that will
Like him not ironically, but because he thinks that people will like him, you know
unironically, which is
never going to happen
so I
Mean he's like he said in the in his newest video. I'm okay, you know
If only 50 subs as long as they like me and it's like Jared the only people that subscribe to you
Subscribe to you because you're funny. It's I mean, you just gotta accept it kind of like Tommy Wiseau did
Yeah, okay. I think it's that exactly like that situation because Tommy
Yeah, genuinely thought that he made like the next
Great Stanley Kubrick film and it's literally the worst movie ever made
Yeah, but but
He understands that people don't actually unironically like his movie everyone that likes the room likes it ironically
And that's how he got his fan base and look at where Tommy's at. He's at the top of the fucking world
Kevin Spacey can never make a movie again and Tommy Wiseau's here at the fucking Golden Globes. That's that's the true. Yeah
He legit made a good film, right? Oh
Yeah, best friends was like like actually unironically pretty good. The thing is although it was not directed written or produced by Tommy
I could genuinely have seen happening right the down the line
Jared hits like
2000 subs and then he makes like a video that actually has like a decent take on something and people like, you know
This is actually decent like this is good, you know
And he'd stuck in appreciation from people who aren't just looking at him as a meme
He said that's the weird thing
He said he likes to be the butt of a joke when it's fun and stuff
But he doesn't want to be a meme and I was like, isn't that not the same kind of thing though?
The problem with Jared is that he he hasn't gotten out of his Tommy what he hasn't gotten out of the initial Tommy Wiseau phase
He needs to get into the current Tommy Wiseau phase and just accept that he's a meme
Because people will actually follow him for that
Because that's what he does best is just acting fucking weird and making people laugh
But he doesn't want that. I mean that was the most subs he's ever had and he threw it away
because
And genuinely like
Wolf will still cover him on his podcast
The reason I'm not doing it here is because I I don't know he's like a time bomb and I can just see it
Happen in the future where you just make a video and be like I am depressed
And it's all because of the coverage from these guys streams or something like that
So I'll just I'll be safe and just be like I fuck it if he's gonna be
He comes across a little bit like flip-flop it II, you know
Cuz cuz he said like one thing I think it's just completely walked back on it in this new video and delete his channel
Which to me I'm like, whoa, he's willing to make some very crazy decisions instantly
You know because the last we heard from him was he was coming on the street
Yeah, I'm pretty sure he's bipolar because it's like he was like actually happy
He was even like making parody videos
I didn't watch him because I don't think that Jared trying to parody himself would work out too
Well, cuz I don't think you can parody a parody. Yeah. Yeah, that was weird
But yeah, that's us to update you guys as to why I won't be here
But it'll still be on wolfs and I assume that what we'll we can do now wolf is just like find the very best
Per per podcast isn't instead of it's like whatever's new whatever. So I'm sure it'll be great
We'll have a lot less time to laugh and a lot more time to groan
Yes, we have I figured since we're vaguely trying to be you know, an actual competent podcasts
Did people vote in that straw poll? I didn't check it yet. Yeah
Every frame of pauses are the biggest one
We'll have to keep posting it throughout the stream for all of the people who pop in but yes vote in
We will decide on actually giving this a name and let's say this is the first official doesn't have a name podcast yet
But um, it'll be me every time more than likely rags and wolf every time depending on who's free at what times and then
There was a huge miscommunication
so rasping
Then we'll have guests more likely as well. And so a prevent welcome to the to the stream of the first guest honorary
That's also true, yeah, we are very diverse stream
Yes, I want to make sure to come in here just to make sure that Patrick Willems cannot criticize you because you're white
Yeah, I was gonna say I figure it makes sense because you've made your video on Patrick Willems
So you'll be able to see the follow. Yes. See I don't have you seen this video yet. I
Haven't I've I've seen the first two minutes and then I stopped because I like I like it when you get sort of like
the initial blast of hilarity from this but um
Yeah, I've heard a lot as well and the comment sections already turned on him
It didn't take very long like apparently he's making some really fantastic arguments
We got that to look forward to they was I've checked out some of the comments from the last video and
Something that we probably should have mentioned in conclusion on McIntosh's video
Was that like the entire point of his video was how we have this toxic expectation that to be a man is to essentially die
To you know save the world sort of thing and that the film sort of subverts that and it's like we I think we might
Appoint it out, but just the hilarity the Holdo and Rose Tico sister do those things exactly in this sold as like really heroic moments
so it makes you wonder like
How does he reconcile that but yeah a lot of people were like why didn't you comment on that and it's like apparently we missed it
But um very much ate an overall criticism of his video. That just makes it fall apart
And there are his fucking stupid voice
There are people who are very unhappy that we've been we've been doing this
Basically responding to videos and and the accusation more people unhappy that you didn't read read the super chat
Oh, I usually do them in a row. I still good for anybody who's concerned
I've got the super chats from when I the stream like screwed up. We've still got them
so
I'll try to read some of them some of them that are
They're around there already been posted because there was a soup. There's a bunch of super chat in your last stream
There's a one that failed. Oh
I'm sorry if I if I miss any of those that's my bad
But yeah, we people have been saying the wolf rags mauler are not supposed to be YouTube police
That's not what we're gunning for at all. We're literally just watching these videos like
No, we're not we're not trying to be the police well
What it is is we watch these videos with you guys and we're like listening to it
That's that's usually what I think is the biggest problem for these people's videos is they don't actually want you to really pay
Attention because I'm kind of like that
Like if you've seen that meme on Twitter every once in a while and it says what it's like to be watching a podcast
And it's like some lonely black guy eating cereal with a poster of a bunch of white chicks laughing
It's kind of like that. You're just like the lonely black guy. That's eating cereal while watching three neck bearded youtubers
Laughing exactly and and by the way shit that the reason we're covering this one first isn't because we hate Patrick Willems
This has been requested like crazy again
We just get like loads of PMs being like you have to cover it and we like to cover Patrick is such an infinite source of
That it's like yeah possible not to like address it. It is fun to
Do to cover him and I've heard that there is a reference to me in this video. So that that's interesting as well
It's not a direct reference. It is that it is
I think I'm referred to as the angry guy who made five hours of ranting on on the last Jedi
That's what I've heard. He says man. I wish I had like an air horn so I could like just do this
As soon as he says it cuz I know what the reference is
Yeah, so I got nerds with a heart from Akiba Voorhees
So thank you for that and the last Jedi cries out in pain as it copyright strikes you Bilbo Baggins the daily Sauron
So those are the two before the the stream went down. I think
Hold on. There's one in the chat. It's not a super chat, but it's a tricks. Rock is gay Bilbo Baggins
Bilbo Baggins does a lot of stuff man. He gets around
Have any of you ever come to video back again?
Have any of you ever covered a video with some cuck argues the sequel trilogy is basically an improved version of the OT
I swear you have my crazy. I've not actually seen it
Well, that's pretty much every single one of these people anyway, so it's like well
They're they're all cocks and they all think that the sequel trilogy is better than the OT or as good
So they all just kind of you know, oh, yeah
There was there was a clip in my the third part of my TLJ one where I think it's new rock stars or
Collide at some channel like that way. They said
Let's be honest. The new films are just the old ones with better acting better effects and better something else and I remember being like
Yeah, I definitely threw it I think I just play the clip go no this is like stop
Terry Crews is Siri. I'm pretty sure that's
We'll get to that right? I
Perfectly agree. Like I mean if you want to make if you're gonna make Siri black, you got to make a Terry Crews
I would watch that
Give him like some shitty white wig and just have him go. Yo Carol. I'm gonna go kill them wild one niggas
It's like, okay, and I mean okay with this Siri. This is the best iteration
Do we want to see him and Geralt hook up? That's my question. I don't know. Well, it's long
Shit, I don't know who's gonna bottom
Superman and Terry Crews that is an interesting like, you know, I
Think that'll be the final
We gotta have him like a wrestle for it, you know
Oh, yeah, there is I have a second channel where I'm I'm storing these podcasts. There's too many links
I gotta I gotta make sure I have a link for a prevents channel and then also for the straw poll then also for my
Second channel. I don't like podcasting. It's too much pressure
Isn't wolf a cuck soy based Trump hater? What most people call me? All right
I don't know where the fuck you're getting that we got a comment on the last stream that said
Couldn't go to bear more than five minutes. I hate Trump fans or something like that and I was like, do we wait
What did we mention Trump? Like I don't I not that I remember but I it's also five hours
So it's hard to tell if we don't know what we said after an hour passes. It's like it
Like I just got banned from Twitter for seven days for saying things that were deemed too right-wing. I
Don't get that you have to keep reminding people you vote for Bernie Sanders, don't you? I
Got to keep reminding people that I'm not a Nazi, but you know people will just make up whatever the fuck they want
If they think I'm it's funny because both sides hate me I get one side that's like
Oh, you're alright and the others one the other one's like you drink soy cuz you hate Trump
And it's like I give credit to Trump more often than not
No, you didn't join alt furry that's why people hate you like okay
There's only one thing I drink and it's generally Pepsi and I'm not seeing any soy on here diet Pepsi is filled with soy
We know this well, I don't drink diet Pepsi cuz I'm not a regular Pepsi is also filled with soy
That's probably what it was the Colin Kaepernick stuff that was talked about right at the beginning I think
Well interesting powers I just asked you guys what happened cuz I don't know anything about it
But apparently that makes me a Trump supporter as well. So interesting
Yeah, we got
Woohoo finally catching a stream in a day off. Love you guys looking forward to five hours of fun. I hope you both available
Nothing else to do in your lives, I'll be great
Wolf question Aragorn versus Geralt fight who will fuck fuck you for making me have to answer that. Damn
Shit, I'd say
Geralt only because he uses magic and Aragorn can't
Yeah, otherwise if it was a fair fight then oh
Fuck that would be it. Well, Geralt gets his ass kicked a lot. So I'd say probably Aragorn if the fight was fair
How's it feel knowing we know you're a pleb for dropping the expanse before episode 5
well, I like the expanse books, but I mean and you know if the acting wasn't shit if the effects weren't shit if the
soundtrack wasn't if the
I don't know the shows the show like loosely follows the books and just has a real a lot of terrible effects
Like obviously the acting is abysmal because it's a fucking sci-fi show
So I haven't seen it. So I can't call him if he's if he's wrong on this
I'm just gonna say I trust you. Well, if you're probably 100% right and I'll never watch the show
They fucked up Miller best character in the whole first book and they fucked him up and some fucking faggot with a shitty haircut
We've only got two left that would get started so YouTube police would have to arrest wolf for fear you fear enos
I'm not even 100% sure and makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, we make some type of drinking game. I mean
Every every time we pause would kill you so I don't know
Yeah, you have to leave it to the audience to come up with it cuz you know, we're not creatives
We don't meet me wolf nap and we don't really make anything
Typically speaking we just
Just sit here and talk just off of other channels. Exactly that that's a hundred percent
Harley more in steam or steins of epic meal time has made an hour-long video telling people the last Jedi doesn't suck
We suck. I'd love to do a video on it. I don't know if we can do our long videos on this
Like we'll never be able to complete an hour video. Will we?
Like I don't I still don't know how we're gonna do that TRO stream
Yeah, I know that's gonna be interesting. So that's a that's two hours. We're gonna have to like
Look, no, cuz we can't cut off the long rags clips because then that'll like
Hurt the ability to respond to their points every time wolf sighs and defeat take a drink
So anyway
Just to just to send out the three links that I actually do need to promote as a responsible podcaster
straw poll
Helps decide on what name we're actually gonna name this thing
Our guest is apoben where you kind of have to subscribe
otherwise
You're not really a true fan of this stream because let's be honest
That's how it works and then and then this podcast will be stored on my second channel
So all three of those links they go. I'll probably have to do it again after
Where's dude when this isn't
You realize you're watching maulers channel, right?
So yeah, we is everyone happy to begin
We've all we all know the last Jedi very well and it looks as if we're about to be schooled on why it's actually great
By the racist himself. Hey, man, it's not right
Not a sidetracked, but I think it was a h bombing I was asked on Twitter recently
Why is it racist? No, is it racist to say the Japanese people suck?
But also not racist to say the white people suck and then he said yes
And then I looked at like the responses and I don't know man that side of the aisle like they
100% I don't know what side of it's like a giant circle whatever side they represent, but they were all like yeah
It's it's totally not racist to say anything bad about white people as a whole and it's just like how
Does that work? Is there is that being updated in the dictionary yet that racism is about power as well as race because if that happened
I feel like there would be riots in the streets
Salty because he's still very salty because the Japanese turn Sherlock Holmes to an anime
What what is that a bad thing or good? Yeah
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they actually did and he said it in one of his videos and he's like he's so he's got he got
So fucking salty about it. Yeah
Well, either way, I just don't I don't get the rules
I've talked about this with other people before I was just like if they could just provide me a consistent rules on this whole
Thing and maybe I could get on board
But seems like you you the contradicts themselves quite a bit. So it gets confusing
anyway, Patrick Willems has previously said that if you're a
White critic you won't have much to offer
On black films, I suppose obviously the reference was Black Panther
So that won't be coming up here because there's plenty of people who are white in Star Wars
So we can still offer something. I think that's how that works
How often do you think he's gonna tell us that because we're white our opinions don't matter as he's a white guy telling us
That's the other thing people will point out. It's like that's why you have me here
That's why you might be here so that can validate you guys that you guys
You're so basically you're our brown knight
You shine a light in the darkness for a for when we're wandering around wondering if we're racist or not you you are proof that we are
So, uh, no, I suppose let's begin
Wow, I feel so awake right now
Do you think it's that tea he's been drinking
Is that soy tea?
Wait, pause it now. I gotta see what the ingredients are to berries tea
Well, I genuinely want to know because if it is I
I think that will be absolutely hilarious
Let's see. So it's strange to to bring in maiden parents, but I'm assuming that this is something he's done before
Otherwise, wouldn't this be very strange for the parents? I don't know
Berries tea, why won't it show the ingredients? That's what I need to know
I
Will doing the important investigations well, you know people need to know
Okay, even even even if it's not there he can actually just pour soy milk in it
Yeah, well, that doesn't prove anything that is true because he did have that jug of milk with him in the last video we saw
Exactly
Okay, here we go. No way that's still not it shit
Um
Come on, where's the ingredients you think you just have this?
Why are we gonna add to the shop? Here we go. Here's the red one
What the hell
Okay, just go on with the video. I'll keep doing my alright you you continue the sleuthing the background I guess
Nothing I just wanted to come back see you guys and have a chat
What's with the camera? Oh
I'm recording this so I can put it on the internet. Obviously. I think we're ignoring the bigger question
Who's that person next to the camera?
So oh, that's just my intern
Yeah, apparently
that's a
Lot of Americans seem to have been kids of people who've immigrated over I guess but I guess the dad is American
The mum is Irish. I'm a little bit confused though. I don't know. This is a bit of a strange woman trader
Fair enough. Also, he has an engine
I'm not sure what this kit is supposed to represent. I'm assuming it there's gonna be a payoff like
Or is this a format? Maybe maybe it's a format that he runs where he like explains films to his parents or something like that
There is soy in it, isn't it dependent on what you're using I
Guess I don't know. It's Barry's teammate in Ireland. It's fascinating how invested you are in finding out. Well, I just really want to know
Because it would just be like the cherry on top like well, I mean the cherry on top would be if he's a Jew
This would be like the whipped cream
The edge to too little edge you're gonna crank it up wolf
We get an intern usually I'm here to talk about movies
I think are underrated that don't get the attention they deserve, but this one is different
I want to talk about the biggest movie of 2017 a movie that pretty much everyone who watches movies
Has seen is it the biggest movie 2017? It probably is. Yes. Yes. I was just thinking like
Would 2018 the biggest movie be one correct thing that that's would it be better?
Infinity War would be the biggest of 2018 or is it someone else? Oh undoubtedly. Hmm
Pretty black Panthers the follow. Yeah infinity war black banter. I
Wonder if I wonder if it did better than the last Jedi or not
Like overall or even an opening box office, I'm not even sure but yeah, fair enough. That's probably true. Then I
Want to talk about Star Wars episode 8 the last Jedi because for some reason a whole lot of people don't like this movie
Yes
Yes, yes. Yes. They don't like this movie. It's like he it's almost like he doesn't know kind of like
You know how he admitted to only talking to people he respects and likes
Because he lives in an echo chamber. I you know, I can actually say I understand why people like it
Because I've heard what they say about it. It's not necessarily accurate to the film every time but I know what I know what they
Say when they say they like my sister likes it then again. She's dumb
No, no, my brother didn't like it my little brother didn't like it because he saw and when when I were died
He was like he stood up on the on the theater. It's like he pulled his two middle finger on the screen. It's like
Genuinely I had missed it on my first watch through I missed it on my first watch through that they said I don't like
Bar died and I was like when I'd finished the film
I hadn't even thought about the fact that he wasn't there yet and then I remember reading online
There's like they unceremoniously flushed him out the freakin ship, but I was like really
Yeah, he was so pissed in that like he just he just stood up on the freaking feeders
I could throw his middle finger on the two screen. It's like Jesus Christ
Yes, it's it's crazy that they at least at least Akbar in a throwaway line at least that's what he got that
You know what? What is one of the brand new character that nobody connected to at all?
Hold oh get it's like she got probably one of the most self-sacrificial
set pieces in the history of Star Wars, but
You know to be him that sacrifice himself in there
Yeah, because I don't even necessarily defend the the ramming maneuver
But fucking i'll throw akbar in there instead of holdo make akbar the one who wouldn't help over the plan
Whatever. Why do you need holdo?
He could even scream. It's a trap as he's flying it into the supremacy. Wait, a lot of people saying f does that mean the stream is down
No, f f just to repay respect for okay
Why would the film didn't pay him respect?
Like no point
Are really angry about it now instead of telling you why you should see it since everyone watching this already has
I want to tell you why I love it because I do
I was gonna say good free
He can this is gonna be a big difference when he tells us why he loves it
Is he gonna cite things that actually happened or is he gonna make stuff up?
Or is he gonna change parts of the film or is he gonna ignore parts of the film?
Is he just gonna say I loved it because that's fine. You're welcome to love it
when you start telling people stuff like
um po didn't tell her the plan because
She didn't tell po the plan because it makes total sense and I love it. It's like
That'll be the interesting sort of go on
It is easily the best star wars movie since the empire strikes back in today. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What? I'm sorry
What i'm sorry what?
I'm sorry. What I missed that. Oh, i'm sorry. What I missed that
Talk about empire last time. I missed that other people are really angry about it
Now instead of telling you why you should see it since everyone watching this already has
I want to tell you why I love it because I do I think this movie is goddamn incredible
It is easily the best star wars movie since the empire strikes back and today. No, no, no, no wrong wrong
So he's saying it's better than return the jedi all the prequels false awakens
wrong rogue one
wrong and solo that that
I will watch i'd rather watch that
I'd rather watch the ewok adventures movies than watch the last jedi again
Because at least like the ewok adventures movies were so bad
It was like kind of funny the characters will be given respect to the ewok movie
At the very least it was just funny to watch a bunch of little teddy bears beat up tuscan raiders that were on endor
for no reason
It's it's fun to see ewok watching porn
Why wouldn't you just say I like it more than uh
All the other movies. Why do you have to say it is better than everything since they're just like, okay
But but but seriously patrick do go on do go on do go on talk about why
So just to clarify by the end of the video we will ask ourselves did patrick explain why the last jedi was great
Good question. It'll be interesting to see if we get there
So
I realized I already lost a lot of you right from the title of this video. Don't worry. We're gonna stay
We're gonna go through the whole video, buddy
No, no, no as as rag said as rag said if you actually tell me that the last jedi is good i'm gonna be like
Go on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's like. All right
This is the thing that's difference between us three and patrick williams or you know
Us three rags and whoever else and patrick williams and whoever else is like we will actively look for the opposite
Perspective because we want to hear it instead of just being like no, I am above that sort of thing
I shan't be looking good people. I do not have respect for it's like all right
Some of you are only here because this showed up in your recommendations and you wanted a new opportunity to tell a stranger about why
You hate this movie, but I just want to say something right up front if you are a person who thinks that
Sjw's our diversity our feminism ruined this movie. Yes
Um, I wouldn't say it's anywhere near that simple. There's a shit ton of things that wrote the movie
I mean, yeah, they they were all problems, but they weren't everything that destroyed the movie how you classify
Yes, yes, but but do go on. Yes, but do go on. I was just gonna say it's just like if you want to tell me that
It's just yeah, there's there's so many things wrong with it. Like those things could be labeled labeled that
Encompass this huge selection
But um, what did he say that he would say to the people who say that though?
Jw's our diversity our feminism ruined this movie. Are you going to tell me that I made disney shill?
Oh, I think that's my bit right there
I think he's about he's about to mention me our feminism ruined this movie
Are if you're going to tell me that I made disney shill
Or if you're going to tell me that I should watch a five-hour rant by some angry guy on youtube
No
Shout out shout out
Oh shout out. I am the angry ranting man. The Mario death song every single time they say something stupid
You just fucking ripped that from dp that's where you got that from
What remember they used to play that for uh, whenever vigilant christian came on that's where I got the idea from I was like, okay
Let's let's let's think of uh, because I can't do air horn. Well, I guess I can do air horn
Uh, I do have I do have air horn. I will happily i'll do with the mario. You do the air horn
We'll make it together. I don't know. I don't know if you guys have seen all all those videos
I made but like the rage one is angry sure it's in the title, but the critique one I was pretty calm
Throughout most of it and it was very scripted. Like I was very descriptive. I wasn't exactly going
But uh, I guess I am some angry guy
Which by the way gives us an insight into people like him and macintosh where you know when they say like the angry fans
I want to criticize them not the ones who just didn't like it
It's like I guess we slot in there even if we explain ourselves, you know very slowly and very calmly
It's like no, we're still the angry ones because we didn't like it
That's how it works enough. I mean you could probably find a part of that five hours where I sounded angrier than normal
But still, you know, well look i'm happy because at least my hairline isn't that bad. Oh
That is an ad homonym you just said his arguments are bad because of it because of his hairline
It's like say that no, he didn't it's okay guys. Calm down. He didn't he's just beat a dick. It's okay
um
So yeah, uh, I am the angry man. I will have to accept that I think
Or if you're going to tell me that i'm a disney shill
Or if you're going to tell me that I should watch a five-hour rant by some angry guy on youtube
Or if you think I should kill myself because I like to movie two people
Hang on kill yourself because you like to movie. I don't think it's
I don't think people will be saying that
Have fun, they're welcome
Well, you said something stupid I just like I said because if you legit if people are saying to die because you like something
It's like yeah, they're probably not people you should give much time personally speaking
It would be go go both ways if people are saying you should die because you didn't like it, you know, same thing
Huh, this is gonna be long
Really care that much about star wars? Yeah, mom. They really do but everyone should just remember. Oh my god
This is a film about space wizards intended for children. So why have you created three videos?
Why is he
Is he yeah, that's the other thing intended I would say for everyone not children
Isn't the whole point the styles appeals to a mass audience? Not just children. Well, here's here's the thing
He's ripping that line from george lucas and just being like
You see george lucas says it's for kids. It's like
Well, let's first off
This is an idiotic argument because just because of film is for kids doesn't mean it has the right to suck
Because lion king treasure planet atlantis
Uh how to train your dragon all incredible films that are all directed towards younger audiences
Yeah, pixar old of disney not new disney new disney sucks, but you know
Um, and then just because it's a kid's movie doesn't mean it's like oh, yeah
This right here is why it takes so long to debunk bullshit compared to how long it takes to generate it, right?
So he puts that sign up and then he moves on but we've got so many counter arguments first being
That just because it's a kid's thing doesn't mean that you don't care about the writing that's even insulting to kids
Like and by kids i'm assuming
We're talking about people as as old as let's say 14. We still be be a kid at that point, right?
You just devalued your own movie in there. Yeah, like if you can't
You can't just say that your film just says oh, oh this film is it's actually just for kids guys
Be too relaxed
Wouldn't the mob the mcu be the same audience intention as star wars as a saga as well?
Always oh that you say that they're a bit more adult i'm not sure
Well, I would say they were a bit more adult in iron man
Then they like kind of lost their balls right immediately after that
Look at the look at when luke sees his aunt and uncle's bones
When when addikins implied to have slid down for a bunch of kids like I don't know
To me i'm just like oh, yeah, this is just the exact same thing as the lego movie. You know, it's it's just like that
Oh, yeah, you know five-year-olds watching anakin slaughter a bunch of five-year-olds. That's
Totally
oriented and once you move from that argument you move on to but hang on
You're telling people to stop getting so angry and like you're gushing about it
So one side of the emotions is okay, but the other side isn't it's like that doesn't seem very consistent
It looks like you're just policing people about how they should feel
Because yeah, absolutely is and like really telling humans how much they should care about something historically doesn't work very well like
Humans don't like it
Yeah, let's go on of course
I'm not saying you shouldn't take it seriously. Just maybe you kind of do what does he you kind of do?
It's it's a kid movie carved out. Also take it seriously. You're like, what?
What
Well, my brother didn't take it seriously and he got pissed off
I'm confused. What does he try to say?
Let's just back it up because he's saying he's not saying to not take it seriously. He's saying intended for children
I'm not saying you shouldn't take it seriously. Just maybe don't get too angry about it. We're not don't get too angry about it
Don't get too angry. What are we allowed to get too happy?
Is there such a thing as too happy because i'm assuming that's what this comes down to it's it's a matter of you can feel
Positively, but you cannot feel negatively
What?
I I don't see like like like that five-hour video. I don't see her being angry at all
I mean you're just explaining why I made it it's five hours. So I must have been angry to make something like that
It couldn't be that
Angry when you were like that dishonored wolf guy
His thor ragnarok video was honestly terrible had no cogent arguments. I was you know, I was very angry
I shouldn't get that angry about a movie that's meant for children like thor ragnarok
Exactly. Thank you. Patrick. I mean honestly thor ragnarok was more child oriented than the last jedi
Look, I think what we can take from this is the you know
When you you sign up or you book to go see a movie as you walk in patrick will be standing then you go
Can you just how how invested am I allowed to be and then he's like it's a seven on this one
Seven out of ten like thank you, man. Just just I wonder what objective lens he gets
Because you know why he feels like he's on the upper end of this one
He's like calm down. Don't get so angry and everyone's like, ha ha true
So I don't get it on the emotional scale for the people who are going nuts like patrick talking about how it's incredible
It's great the visual language the subtext the lessons it teaches of humanity and you have like a five-year-old like, huh?
Oh
Right, it's not meant for you, I guess sorry
It's very interesting that he said that yeah
You shouldn't be angry about this like like i'm not even a star wars fan
Like i'm not a star wars fan. Like I could like that film. It's fuck
Lesson is terrible
Like i'm not even a star wars fan like i am a sort of demographics like, you know
When people bring up star wars, uh back the new the new episodes came in like episode seven
Episode seven came in it was like it was intended for like to bring people go back to star wars
Like hey star wars exist like hey, come here star wars is back again
It's like i'm one of like one of the newcomers like their target audience like but even I was like
Okay, seven was
And then you have rogue one which
I gotta say rogue one is the best
The best out of all of them, but it was still
And then you have last jedi, which was just
Even
I think you have solo
And the the air stuff get really lazy like
Because then it's like oh you don't even care anymore
All right, patrick now that you know, you've you've dashed all of the evil haters. Let's let's hear some of these arguments
Shall we go with child oriented? Oh my god, your hammer pulled you up. Okay, you got a point there now
I forgot about that. Well, that's this is the thing though. I was I was clarifying if
If star wars is is oriented to children surely the mcu is as well because they have I I think what wolf is trying to say
Is that paul?
Uh the thorang drop is a lot more childish. Oh, I agree in terms of the humor
They even like they make light of all the dramatic things that happen. They're like la la
That's more what I was going for like the kind of tone throughout the movie
Whereas last jedi was more serious. You can have adult jokes hidden in kid stuff though
Like this is the thing. I true
This is a pointless thing to even talk about because we enjoy children stuff
Stuff that was clearly meant for children because you can make it good
You can tell a good story
You don't it's implied with with what he said that you need sex violence drugs and whatever else to tell a story
That's interesting for adults. Like no, you don't you really don't
You can literally be a story about friendship and that's it shrek
What are people referencing shrek now? Yeah, I I think shrek is good. I know there's beams but yeah
Yeah, it's not as if adult jokes in it shrek 2 is good. Shrek 2 is the best. Shrek 3 is the worst
Oh god, yeah, and this is the thing like
What does it mean to what if I took shrek seriously and talked about how good I thought that was writing wise adventure time?
You know, I don't really I wish I wish he was here so I could be like patrick. What does that mean though?
What are you saying when people celebrate how well written something like wally or incredibles or monsters inc is are you like?
Oh god, calm down
It's a kid's thing because you do it to the negative side
But you do it to the positive side you do you keep that consistent? Probably not
Please do a five-hour analysis on shrek
About a movie about space wizards intended for god. He does it again
What did he just do that? Do we rewind? Hang on?
You did rewind or maybe this is a film about space wizards intended for children
I'm not saying you shouldn't take it seriously. Just maybe
Don't get too angry about it. We're not talking about gun control here. We're talking about a movie about space was
And he said that you're he's basically saying you can care about politics, but you can't care about media come on
Politics is one thing but media. This is a kid's movie for space wizards. Remember
Patrick's politics include hating white people. So
I don't understand this at all
It's so confusing to keep track of I think it comes down to
He's going to use this argument against the people who are making counter arguments to the film to try and bat them off
But he won't he won't uh, allow it to be applied to himself
People in the chat are pointing or rightfully pointing out. What is gun control? How is that even a good analogy?
Like I said, i'm assuming he's talking about politics
He's got to be that's his point that you you should be serious about politics. You shouldn't be serious about media
I guess that's what he means. Even though he's very serious about media. He has a whole career based on it
So I don't understand
You should be less angry about it. That's what he said control is on the same level of criticism for shrek
Yeah, I just saw
Oh patrick
It's intended for children
Anyway, it sucks that I feel like I have to say that and it's probably not even worth waiting into the shit storm anyway
Honestly, oh what so now he's like, uh, I probably shouldn't have said that because there'll be counter-arguments
Yeah, yeah, yeah, just just just just go on just go on. Why do you like this film?
This is a fucking five minute disclaimer, please leave me alone
I love this movie
Oh, there you go. That's all that's all it is. It's all it ever comes down to
I just love this movie. That's it. I want to talk about it
Okay, but if you talk about it on a public space expect people to talk back that is how this works
So the disclaimer you miss I'll just start the video here to be perfectly honest with you, but hey
Before I start talking about the last oh god, I need to quickly run through it. Wait a second
He was talking to his parents this whole time, right?
I don't know if that's what's actually happening or if he filmed those videos
I don't know if that's what's actually happening or if he filmed those bits like separately
because
Yeah, I guess I don't know if they're gonna be replying or if they're just for jokes
So I guess we'll find out
Context matters. I mostly love the original trilogy
I think the prequels are generally not good. Even if they contain some cool ideas. I think the force awakens is pretty good
Yeah, it plays things super safe and basically just hits all the beats from a new hope
But the movie had to do three things it had to feel like star wars again
It had to introduce new characters that we wanted to follow into future movies and it had to bridge the 30 year gap in
It had to bridge the 30 year gap well, I guess it failed in that regard didn't it
Yeah
I mean in the sense that like we skipped the bridge part and went to the other side
I'm, sorry
But if I was to compliment the force awakens I would never cite that it bridged the gap
It didn't bridge any gap. It practically skipped the gap
Yeah, wouldn't like the force unleashed which is intentionally supposed to be okay. This is what happens between three and four
Work more as a bridging the gap part. This is skipping the gap. This is on the other side of the gap
Yeah, I don't I don't understand I could possibly assume bridging the gap between
between what
Like the ot and itself
Because what else would it connect to I don't even know what he's trying to say with that. Anyway
I don't think he understands what bridging the gap means is a phrase
I had to merge the 30 year gap in the story. It did ridiculously well at the first two and with the third. Oh, okay
It did. Okay
No, hey at least at least he said that it wasn't great in that regard at least
At least he said that it wasn't great
Obviously we would consider it to be a complete nutter sham
But he's saying it wasn't great a little frustrating that we don't really know what the political landscape of the galaxy is
And how the republic works and what the significance of the hasan system destroyed actually is
Yeah, but I also get that they wanted to return to a familiar dynamic
I don't need to see snoke a star wars story to understand
Who that guy is and what is dealing as if it is if you need a whole movie to be able to explain a character
We still don't know who he is
Even after the second film I guess I guess he's saying that we don't need to know at all
I guess it's really sad because he's
He's one of the villains that actually have potential to actually be you know, like the
The overarching villain for the entire thing, but now we have only kylo again
The interesting thing is that a handful of people will say that palpatine was, you know
Very underdeveloped in the ot that we don't get quite quite a lot for him
And yet he's got way more of a character than snoke did so it's like talk about
Super underdeveloped and I don't get people who are like we didn't need a huge backstory for this villain. It's like
We never get a huge backstory. Like what was the backstory of account duku?
What was the backstory for darth maul, you know only including the films because I guess we don't need a backstory
We need a story
That's true
Yeah, just give us any reason to understand why they're here and they have what goal like that
Like all we needed to know about darth maul was that he was uh evil darth
Well, yeah, that he was darth evil
Darth evil
Um, all we need to know about who is that he was uh, he was a former jedi
Yeah
And that he got seduced by cidius
All we need to know about cidius was that he was a sith and he's evil and that's really all there needs to be
the problem with snoke the difference here is that
Snoke just comes out of nowhere when the last time we saw any of these characters the galaxy was at peace
So where he came from makes no sense because the last time we saw any of these characters it was
The sith were defeated completely. So where did this guy come from? Is he a sith?
I mean he brought it up the bridging the gap thing and it's like snoke is absolutely the probably the most important component for bridging
The gap because he's the guy who changed everything
He it reignited the empire and he turned kylo and ended up getting the jedi destroyed. So that's the entire
Positive faction have been destroyed by snoke
Wait, wait a second. He showed he showed his he showed uh snoke on a video. Maybe he'll try to explain it
Maybe someone said a darth evil star wars story
I would watch it what the significance of the hosnian system being destroyed actually is
There is no debt that they wanted to return to a familiar dynamic. I don't need to see snoke. You know, it was a familiar dynamic
a good film
What so you're doing it for the sake of being familiar?
Oh
Doing it for the sake of making it same like the original trilogy. Wait, what?
I mean, they got to get the old fans back. That's the point
Sir kelvin strikes back
I'd watch the star wars story to understand who that guy is and what his deal is
So now that the force awakens had brought star wars back to the thing that we loved
There was no longer two hours of hate and christiansen green screened into ugly cgi
Where did we go gotta gotta get those prequel jabs in there?
It's almost like a c guys the last jedi's still better than them though
Patrick just because the prequels suck doesn't mean that the last jedi doesn't stop using that as an argument
No, okay. Look. Yeah, there are a lot of people that are saying now that um
That the prequels are good and they aren't and they're wrong when they say that they aren't
however
Just because people are saying that doesn't mean the last jedi is excused from criticism because the prequels exist
Like in that do want to watch it by that logic by that logic
Then we should excuse the fact that the hobbit movies are terrible because the lord of the rings is great
true
what
Sort of I mean it's just backward logic anyway
Um, but this is the thing we still haven't actually like started the video yet. Really?
This is all still still but you know, we're nearly there. Hopefully
I'm wondering if he's gonna pull a fucking piece of card again here. We've got all this set up
We've got a hell of a cliffhanger ending. So what comes next?
A lot of people had a lot of demands for this movie explanations and answers and confirmations of fan theories and look I like
I like how we expected to get answers. It's just like
The answers create states the answers create the world. Like what is why is this such a like crazy?
Demand from the fans now. Why is that looked at as crazy when jj was the one who made us ask the questions in the first place
I mean really the only thing that he
I hate this argument that people keep bringing up where it's like
Uh fans are just angry because they didn't get their fan theories
Like anyone that knows anything about fan theories knows that fan theories in every situation are 99 inaccurate
Yeah, I was gonna say, you know, there's a shit ton of fan theories everywhere all over the place
Jar Jar Binks is Snoke, you know like that. There's the they're all over the place if people were that
You know attached to fan theories then every single movie everywhere would get hated on just because of that
But that's the thing
No one cares that much you're applying too much credit to something that no one really cares about
You know what I look at it as is
You have a birthday coming up and then your parents like what do you want?
You go surprise me and then instead of picking you up that video game you wanted or maybe some shoes
You were after or a ticket to go to a place you really want
It's just an empty box and they're like aha
And you're like, oh
Yeah, that's a surprise
Expectations guys, but like you're just sitting there like I mean, I guess I asked for a surprise so
Wow
And you get this this immediate sense of do you hate me?
Why would you do this? And then ryan jones is like no, I just hate star wars like oh, okay. I understand
Yes being hyperbolic but it's it's it's just I I would like to hear a better argument for how
This is all caused by false expectation
because um
It just it almost seemed like a cop-out that they didn't have to do more work, you know
Balance more of the I like make everything fit more because if you just say that there is no answer to snoke's origin raise origin
Whatever else then everything you don't actually need to do anything other than just tell whatever story you wanted to do in the last jedi
Which as we found out that he got rid of the notes from jj abrams
That uh ryan johnson clearly did come in wanting to tell his own story, which
There you go
Like he doesn't care what the first and third movie was in the trilogy and he certainly doesn't care about the older ones
You just wanted to make his art
And that pissed people off. I made a whole video about that, but personally those weren't really my top priorities
I just wanted something new. I didn't want another beat for beat repeat of the original trilogy
I wanted star wars to surprise me. Uh, they kind of did do some of that though. They kind of did
Yeah, there's a bunch of stuff they redid
so
Not sure where he's getting that from like I guess he's gonna argue that they may have copied a few things
But they had it end differently. So
That's I mean a bank robbery surprising doesn't mean it's good
Yeah, I don't think they they appreciate that concept because they it's rare that we get told why it's good
It's just yeah, but it's different to expand the scope of what a star wars movie could be
And also, of course, I wanted to rip roar in good time
That is exactly what I got right from the a so it looks like we're gonna begin the actual arguments now
You guys ready this is gonna actually involve references to the film. This is where it's gonna get interesting
Mario soundtrack ready. You gotta you gotta piss everyone off if you keep using that
Yes, that is exactly what I got right from the opening scene
I could tell something was unique about this movie the movie begins with a space battle
That is seriously one of the best space battles in the oh
Okay, please give me a reason
Go
On go on
series but near the end
It does something amazing in star wars. We've seen a lot of battles and in those battles
We've seen a lot of random rebel pilots die, but i've never really cared about them. No disrespect. You didn't care about poor kids
I guess uh, I mean so I guess you didn't care about bigs. Um, wait
Wait, why would you care about the rebels that died in the last jedi like they're about as equally not as developed
Like just because you don't know their names their history or how they even came to be in the positions
They are doesn't mean you shouldn't care about them. See what is wrong with you
Is it because they're women that you don't care about them?
Jesus
Really cared about them. No disrespect to bigs and poorkins, but they were never really characters
But the last jedi shines a spot hang on he said they were never really characters, how are these guys characters exactly
Yeah, that's her name. Exactly
It's page tico and I know that because everybody wanted her to be in rose's place
Because she's more attractive. Oh, that is that is because because that is
That is it's a weird i'm just saying
it's your reason
Because it's it's it's rose's sister
Because rose's sister is more attractive. Oh, is that going to be her character that she was rose's sister?
I wonder rose's hotter sister
Light on page tico and for two minutes. She becomes the star of the movie pagers desperate attempts to that's not i'm sorry. Okay
How exactly do you learn about a character from this selection of she's just trying to activate a remote
That's it, yeah
I don't understand like give me give me something here
Come on to drop the bombs is more suspenseful and more emotional than anything. Yeah, you keep saying that that's what it is
No references battle scene since luke's trench run and as how is that as epic as luke's trench run?
Just saying it look it's all it's all opinion
We're not gonna get anything about the looks of things
But yeah, i'm surprised because I was just confused from the gecko watching this scene
I remember being so thrown out by the bombers in general
I was just like what in the hell are these things
And then like how they drop and how the tie fighters just allow the last bomber to destroy the dread door instead of destroying it
I was so confused because you know, you could get a triple killer barbers with half a tie fighter
So there's a significant design flaw in the bombers
Very significant. There's several significant design flaws, but which one are you thinking about?
Man, I don't know like the fact that it's very easy to destroy
Yeah, that would be one. I like the the flaw where pretty much any bomber that
Looses its payload is pretty much going to kill itself because by the time the first bomb hits the last bomb is still in the fucking
Chamber so they just chain up and destroy it anyway
Um, yeah, how slow they are is hilarious
The size and like lack of shielding or armor
It's it's just a bizarre design and from what we see in the actual film
It's just like why would anyone pay to make these things?
The fact that it takes like a hundred bombs to do what two y-wing bombs could do just as easily in the ot
And we saw in rogue one the y-wings could disable temporarily, uh, the star destroyers
And then we see it from the ion cannon in um in episode five
And it's like wouldn't that have just been just as good
You just disable the the dreadnought and get out if that was your only goal was to get out
Instead you sacrifice like half your team infinitely destroy it
It's just so many conflicts in your head just thinking about why the hell was this a story
It's like oh, just ignore it
Enjoy the emotional bombers that are so useless. They could have just had one of them jump into the lead right through the
Dreadnought oh and those those bombs well as red light media highlighted. It's like why wouldn't you just fire them?
Like missiles if they're that good that they just they just damage on impact
It's like I mean the tie fighters had troubleshooting the incredibly slow moving deployment of them
So you could probably get away with just shooting them. I think but
It's shot I thought holy shit
I have never seen this in a star wars movie. I thought he I thought he bleeped his swear words
Maybe he missed that one or I guess I don't know for and i've noticed a lot of people don't well
I've never seen a bad star wars movie before. Yeah, neither none of us did
He clearly referenced the prequels i'm confused
Things in their star wars and I think that's kind of a bummer
One of the reasons I love the empire strikes back is that it's constantly surprising the characters grow in chains
It shows us amazing new planets and creatures
It changes our conception of star wars and the most disappointing i'm just waiting. Okay
Just a movie where it opens up. It starts episode nine
It's just a guy getting some coffee and like just just uh
Just a normal last place in real life and then he does his taxes and then it ends
It's like that open up what we consider to be a star wars movie
Someone in the chat said did he just swear at his parents?
Because remember they're sitting right across from him still
But yeah fair enough the thing about return of the jedi is how it doesn't really do that
It mostly gives us a lot of things we've seen before like a death star or tattooing
It's big new additions to the mythos are a forest and the revelation that stormtrooper helmets can be played as drums
Okay, we do in the whole see revenge everything sucks compared to the last jedi and that's why it's good
I'm just like, you know it I would never concede that return the jedi is is worse than the last jedi nor the prequels so I
But apparently it added nothing new his his like requirements here are whether or not I added something new
It's just like does it is there anything more than that like is it more complicated than that or is it just that?
Return of the dead I significantly better than any of the films any of the newer films
Well, I mean I agree with that, but apparently he
He doesn't like it because all it added was that you can drum stormtrooper helmets
Return of the return of the king add to um
Anything for the first you or the rangers I don't get really much
I just I don't get how it works. Why does it have to add something to be good and
Why is that the demeanor of whether it's good? Cool
But the last jedi isn't content to recycle star wars greatest hits and just revisit old planets and reveal that
Everyone is related to someone that we've met before it didn't have to be that she was related to somebody we know
It just needed to be something that makes sense. I mean they're gonna answer a question instead of just nobody
and she's just super powerful because we've reestablished how the force works now and that is
If you're a broom boy in some area you'll also be as powerful as ray as long as you've
uh
Why why why why do you have to make it about this instead of talking about what actually happens?
You know like explaining where snoke came from it wouldn't matter if snoke was just some janitor on a spaceship
We would be lucky. I don't care where he came from but his history literally
Makes the story or breaks it
It's like if you just told us he was
If he was palpatine's apprentice this whole time, we'd be like, well, where the hell was he and it's like, okay
No, he's not that he's uh, he's palatine's boss and you're like, well, where the hell was he and you go, okay
he's um, he's a
He was a competitor to palpatine the palpatine nearly killed and he he went into the shadows. He's not darth plagues though
We'd be like, okay
So he came back once palpatine was dead and it's like these these things just just they connect the stories
They actually bridge the gap
And why do you why do we need to know it's because it's and snoke did everything and it's like
Why do we know about ray? It's like well if we don't find out why she has so much power
It kind of makes it really hard to be invested in it with the whole kills everything first try sort of bullshit
Yeah, we don't know the history between the characters like we just don't really care about them
like the way snoke
Like the reason why snoke is becoming like the biggest powerful
entity in the galaxy
We don't really know why
Or how is like he said bridging the gap
kind of okay explained
It is interesting to me that he has like this idea of bridging the gap
He actually criticized tfa for it, but then simultaneously doesn't give a shit about who or what snoke is
Like that seems to be a conflict to me. But there we are
It has a story to tell and a mythology to expand
I love that this movie finally shows us how the one percent live in this galaxy
It finally has someone use the force to switch on a lightsaber
It finally gives us an idea of what obi-wan meant when he said strike me down. I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine
Oh no, oh no
He's arguing what that the lightning from yoda explains
What obi-wan was talking about when he said i'll become more powerful than you could possibly imagine
Even though that's what the force ghosts were
That that was him becoming more than just human that was the point
I'll just I'll just replay it for you guys if you didn't quite get it
Lightsaber it finally gives us an idea of what obi-wan meant when he said strike me down
I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine
You guys get that
You follow it along
I still don't get it
So just to clarify by the way the one percent the upper echelon of class in star wars
Wouldn't that just be like the people in the boo who were like royalty or the people?
Like palpatine was the one percent surely
Uh, the jedi kind of up there that was there was a class system going on. We saw the slaves
We saw we know classes already existed
Wouldn't lando technically count that's 101 percent
I suppose I guess it's different for every planet
Different ecosystems or whatever, but it is interesting by the way
Because I think some people in chat picking up on it the fact you referred to them as the one percent. It's almost like hmm
Seeing a bit of a drip feed of politics there. We'll see if he mentions that again
But yeah, I like the way he slips that in though
Like by the way, you know this thing that people have a huge problem with yoda fucking firing lightning
It actually makes complete sense because what obi-wan was referring to it's like no
No, stop if obi-wan was referring to that why wouldn't he have used it? That sounds just stop it. Stop it
It gives us great new
All of the things that he liked are very like irrelevant things
I don't really care if star wars like show the one percent side like just yeah, like we
We want to see character related arguments not
They showed how the one percent lives like it's very small. It's the very small
Good thing
I guess if you're I guess this film is so bad
You have to like grasp so hard to the smallest things that are
You can interpret as good
Like why wouldn't he want to talk about he's going to talk about the characters I assume he's just getting out the small things
Maybe that's that's what we're doing right now
Um as as for force for skype chat, uh, I don't necessarily have a huge issue with it
But like
You know, like it's it's it's mostly fine. It's just like it's obviously an excuse to get them to speak to each other the
protagonist and antagonist
It's just that obviously apparently it takes an incredibly powerful force to be able to do it and snoke was obviously given that
Intro which is why we kind of again wanted his history
So that slots in nice and easy instead of just being like oh, he was super powerful more powerful than palpatine
Also, he's dead by him. It's like oh
Okay
That was interesting intentions of what we've seen before and speaking of the force
No other movie explains it as well as luke does here
Oh
Um, I I just yoda at empire has has the definitive explanation of the force
I'm i've been silent because it's like my
It's like I don't know how anyone on earth can be as dumb as patrick willams I don't think that there's
I mean
Well is patrick
Quote an email jonahill once wrote describing a jump street men in black crossover quote
intellectual maestro jonahill
To quote jonahill. Yeah, this took a turd like all right rad and powerful. I want to bring up something that doesn't get
I missed that. Yeah roll that back. I missed that clean and rad
An email jonahill once wrote describing a jump street men in black crossover it's clean and rad and powerful
I want to bring up some clean rad and powerful like my first sona
Gonna gonna require some qualification there. Mr
Mr. Patrice because I I don't really follow something that doesn't get talked about enough
Star wars has always been weird. Remember the cantina scene who the hell said star wars wasn't weird
Yeah
I mean, yeah, is that is is that like the last jedi doesn't make any sense and then he responds star wars has always been weird
It's like that's not
Not the argument remember figuring dan in the modal nodes
Remember how there's a fucking devil in there just chilling at the bar and why don't swear to your parents. Yeah
That's not our argument
Dude, I just realized like yoda shouldn't be casting lightning. That's ridiculous that he goes there was a fucking devil in the cantina
Just like oh, okay. Yeah, that's yeah. I mean like yeah, that's not our argument though. Just
A one-eyed tentacle creature in the trash compactor. What does that have to do with anything? Okay
Okay
Do you think he said that as if people have forgotten he's like, do you guys remember the episode four one?
You know the old one not many people have seen it. It's the one with the tentacle one
It's like he expects us to either be like, oh, yeah
The last jedi doesn't suck because of that or he expects us to say. Oh, yeah
Star wars sucks because there was a devil a second and a half
It's like it's like you're furious at the film and then he takes you to watch episode four
You see the scene with the tentacle and then you go. Oh the last jedi was actually very good
right
Has anyone ever made the argument that the last jedi is bad because it's got weird shit in it
Yeah, this is the thing I don't understand where he's coming from with this one weird shit and the last time it lives up to that legacy
Okay
Okay, okay to be fair to be fair there was one person who did say that the last jedi was bad because there's some weird shit
Oh
You don't want to be
You do not want to be caught arguing for the the milk monster that's not a great position to have but go for it
Patrick this is just the absolute worst screen to pause on
Go for it. And the last time it lives up to that legacy
The giant alien cow thing that luke milks is one of my favorite additions to this
Why am I even I'm not even surprised by that
It's one of his favorite editions
Oh my god
This is real explain come on you got the porgs you got the precious crystal fox boys
You got the little horse llama things. I mean you got so much to pick from and it's the teddy elephant thing
He's jesus he's he's got to be trolling
This is patrick, all right patrick, let's we'll take you seriously
Oh your child lives up to that legacy
The giant alien cow thing that luke milks is one of my favorite additions to this whole series if you don't like the whole series
Oh my god
I
I was going to give him the benefit of the doubt and say okay, at least it's just this movie
Jesus christ
How did you get this one to be your favorite?
In in all of star wars as a saga the alien elephant titties are the favorite. Wow. That's just
That that can't you can't
Okay, go on it. It has to be a punchline of a joke like he can't seriously freaking say this
Alex is one of my favorite additions to this whole series if you don't like it, no offense
But you have boring taste and I don't want to
What is wrong with you what is wrong with you? What do you mean?
You can't be serious patrick you can't this is insane look
You know, it's one thing to say like oh anyone who likes the last jedi needs to be like killed or is stupid
It's like obviously that's hyperbolic
He's actually arguing that if you don't like the alien elephant boobs, then you're you have bad taste
A boring taste. Sorry like oh
I don't I think i'd rather be boring than like whatever that thing is. Jesus. I'm
He didn't even try he was just like nah you suck
Did your parents block their access of porn hubs so you have only this movie the vent like fuck
Oh
Amazing. He's just gonna skip the argument and just go straight to you. Look if you don't get it you're boring
Okay, we're in taste and I don't want to be friends with you. I don't want to be friends with me
Okay, he's getting he's getting super let's let's let let it go on
Also, we've got the fish nuns and a hell mountain fish not to the hell
What
I missed that. I'm sorry. Okay, you know, I I genuinely thought like okay, maybe we're laughing too early
Maybe he's gonna be like, you see this is what these these haters would say
But no he's just going with it. He's serious
He just said the fish nuns and the hell mouth as like defenses for the last jedi
I get no offense, but you have boring taste and I don't want to be friends with him
You
Fish nuns and a hell mouth of the movie goes all David Lynch and those crazy things hanging out on canto by nobody
Nobody's fucking complimenting that in canto by it was bizarre. It was like what?
Why is why is there an opera singing chunky alien thing?
Do you remember the one that was putting coins in bb8?
It was like super cgi'd ever everyone's watching the film just like oof
This is so you mean like a little gremlin looking thing which was actually voiced by mark hamill as far as I know
Which is the nice nice fact about it. But yeah most and i'm saying this obviously not everyone
But most people were citing the prequels when they came to this scene
They were like this is very prequel ish and it was probably because of how much cgi was in it
Even though the prequels aren't all cgi i'm just saying
Maybe you need to lay off that soy tea, buddy. Hey, man
It's giving him great taste that I am jealous of good
Don't you want to live in a world where you could enjoy all of these horrible things?
Oh
We've got the fish nuns and a hellmouth where the movie goes all deep with lynch and those crazy things hanging out on canto bite
Oh, yeah canto bite, you know that section of the movie that people hate when I say nothing happens. It should just be entirely
Don't don't don't
No, no, no use offend canto bite. So I swear I might actually lose my mind
This is interesting, right?
So when when h bomber guy defended dark souls 2 a lot of people noted that he chose some really bad
Arguments instead of the actual strengths of the film. It would be like saying
uh
No game. Sorry. Yeah, so serial is great because it can power your car
It can act as a shield from the sun if you pour it on yourself. You're like, what do you know?
That's not why serial is good. It's like why why are you making these arguments?
So if you're gonna defend the last jedi, there are several things that I personally would pick strategically
canto bite and
Alien booby monster not high on the list. In fact, I would argue they're pretty much on the bottom
So what are you doing? Patrick? What are you doing?
Yeah, people called me the contrarian, but jesus
Let's at least he's I think he's arguing for this
Should I like um like can of light like even that guy who was like shit talking rags
And he was like my uncle's told me like no one cares what your uncle said
right
Like even that guy was like can't yeah, I can't buy it sucks. It's like
even that idiot
Come on
Loads of people concede. It's like yeah, I can't abide with shit. Okay, fine. Fine. We're moving on
We're gonna talk about the better stuff. It's like, okay. I I cannot if he I just hope he doesn't I mean
We're about to find out wolf. Are you excited?
Let him go on let him go on nothing happens. It should just be entirely cut out of the movie
I could spend several minutes here talking about how it's important
Don't see the oppressed people in the galaxy and the hope that the resistance symbol inspires
Yeah, yeah
Yeah
The hope the hope that they inspire when they've been in power for the past 30 years if you pay attention to the actual film
as if
As if the institution of the republic did anything for these people except actually encourage the activity the idea
That the resistance were the ones that were going to save them where they didn't do shit for the past
Three decades watch the film and you'll actually understand why it doesn't matter
We actually we could believe that the first order might be the ones that save these people
We don't actually know if canto bites are subservient to the first order
We actually get told they sell to both the bad guys and the good guys
Did anyone watch this film when they decided to defend it?
Like this is what I get about the references and like you're inventing the film. This is not what happened. You're insane
Ran to over
It's just a noise somebody somebody sent the fanart of terry cruz's series
Of course, there's no twitter. I'm guessing. Yes. Yes. Take your twitter
I could spend several reasons saying why it's you know a thing, but then you know, i'm just not going to do that
I'm just going to talk about other things
Did you know every single time he says something stupid just show?
Terry cruz's series
That's our character argument. Yeah
Oh wait, no wait, that's not it. Did you retweet it? I really want to see it, but it's not showing another one
All right, i'll retweet it
Someone sent me a picture of south park
When you watch the milking scene in star wars the last jedi and they just photoshopped. Uh, patrick willam's face. I'm too
uh
I haven't watched south park in years
The guy with the mustache, you know, or he was jacking off there's computer and it's just everywhere. Oh randy
Yeah
I already retweeted it if you want to see it
All right. Well, I usually don't go on twitter until the end of the stream because I try and take all the notifications at once then
Uh, yeah, I I would retweet it but i'm banned from twitter for a week. So
Oh, yeah, I don't know if you want to mention that to these the people in the stream while you can. Oh, yeah, so, um
Basically, I said some jokes on twitter that were very obviously jokes
And I said a word that people didn't like which wasn't even bad. It was read hard
And it's bad to them, dude
well
Uh people people wanted to see the series. Okay. Well, anyway, you know, it's just
Because of that I I can no longer use twitter for a week because twitter banned me
Yeah, wolf is off twitter for the week without a week without news, sorry, he's not ignoring you guys he's been banned
Actually, you still get pms don't you?
Yeah, I can still dm people but it's like well, who am I gonna do?
Who am I gonna dm everyone I talk to I talk to on discord
All right, then let's let's continue
The galaxy and the hope that the resistance symbol inspires
I could talk about how the failures you imagine how much you would hate the resistance
You'd be like you guys have let us suffer for decades under your rule
We thought things would change when you took down the empire, but you did nothing. I want to see that movie. Let's see that movie
By the way seven minutes in and I cannot believe I say this but jared's review last night makes more sense
Including the uh, the the detail that ray killed hard, you know, put that in there it still makes more sense
Symbol inspires I could talk about how the failures here caused by poe and finner essential teaching moments in both
It didn't know it was the robot the robot caught bba in the box. It wasn't their fault
Go on go on this is what I mean though. He revises the scenes to match a narrative. It's really annoying
And symbol inspires I could talk about how the failures here caused by poe and finner essential teaching moments in both of their arcs
But what I really want to mention are three very important things. Okay. Number one a drunk goblin puts coins in bb-8 and that rules
Do we should we comment on that? I'm done. I'm done. Should we even comment on that like
It's almost as strong as his elephant booby argument i'd say
But sure, let's see the next one. I'm starting to think this might actually be a troll video like there is a good chance
Yes, it is a troll video. It is a troll video because he's not
I I just if this is not a troll video, this is insane
I can't believe you would make these arguments like even the worst last jedi defenders
Have made better arguments even that guy debated the first time the first guy we ever debated more maybe he had better arguments
He did yeah, maybe and again, maybe only only suggesting maybe patrick realized that
There was quite a bit of let's say controversy in covering star wars
And so he was like i'll make this video
And you know, it'll be the end of like he's already made two
So he's like let's just throw a third one on and i'll actually deliberately give it, you know weak arguments
So it'll get covered more
And generate, you know
Like that that could be a motivation for it because if we go further and we still like the arguments get even worse
Like i'm starting to wonder if he actually is just trying to fuck with us
Yeah, go on because I have seen when he posted this
On twitter there when he posted this on twitter a lot of people were celebrating how well argued it was like people were on
The side of the last jedi is great. No, it's not
So that's that's that's the thing. I don't know if this is parody, but there's a lot of evidence stacking up against at this point
Number one a drunk goblin puts coins in bb8 and that rules number two
It is now canon that mas canada has had sex with justin throw number three watching rich people get their shit destroyed
Is one of the purest pleasures in all of cinema and if you can't appreciate that I feel sorry for you
Oh
So let's let's listen to that again and let's not say anything over it because that's that's a very interesting statement
Goblin puts coins in bb8 and that rules number two
It is now canon that mas canada has had sex with justin throw
Number three watching rich people get their shit destroyed is one of the purest pleasures in all of cinema
So to clarify if you don't gain pleasure for watching rich people have their things destroyed he feels sorry for you
Can we just skip to the end of the video just to see if he's like, uh
This was all a joke because if it if that's the case
Not really much point respond into the rest because like that's a bit like whoa, dude
Like if you if you want people to take this seriously, it's like
The thing is even if it's a joke even if he said that it's a joke there are so many people that take it seriously
I know of course. I don't I still don't think this is a joke
I think this is it's not too far away from his plot holes video in terms of argumentation. He's really bad at it. Yeah
Yeah
But you know, oh he spots your skill share at the end too, of course he does
Okay, but let's get serious here for a long time now
Okay, it was a joke so all of it was a joke now we're serious, okay, let's just okay, okay, okay
Okay, go on get serious here for a long time now i've had a beef with the original trilogy
See return to the jedi reveals that luke and leah are twins which makes leah darth vader's daughter and yet
She seems to have zero connection to the force and she gets zero closure with her father
Uh, wait, you are fine with ray having massive amounts of power
Uh without any kind of source, but you're not okay with leah lacking a lot of power despite having a fit source
Seems kind of inconsistent to me i'm confused by why he would spend so much time
Just saying a whole bunch of like the insane shit. The reason why it doesn't bother
The reason why it doesn't bother me wolf and and several others about leah is because she hasn't been trained
She hasn't unlocked the potential if you will like luke does in his trilogy like luke was just like leah is ray
Well, this is the thing
We are annoyed at ray because she has unlocked a massive amount of power and we're like, how did you do that?
No training. No one telling you anything. No one exploring anything with it and it's like, okay, but with leah we're like, oh
Leia could be trained leah could be explained to you how it all works. She could have a moment on daygiver. So
It's interesting to me because it's like that's our issue and he's looking at it in the reverse way
He's like ray is great. That's fine. That makes sense. But leah, where's her moment with the force? It's like well
Why would she have a moment with the force? She hasn't ever had it in her besides
She does have like a little little inkling. She she contacts luke through the force
um in empire and uh
You get it in the last jedi. Not really she's in a coma
She felt han die through the these things i'm curious if he's gonna add to this because this is him being serious now
If you remember she seems to have zero connection to the force and she gets zero closure with her father
Yoda says there is another but then she doesn't get to do anything because he was referred to star killer
God don't you understand the law?
Anyway, this is a long way of saying that the much maligned scene where leah uses the force to pull herself back into the ship
Thrilled me because in one moment it told us that she did not spend the last 30 years trapped in amber
Oh fucking course. She can use the force. She said god damn. It's not that's not the problem
It's okay that she can use the force. It goes a bit further when she's doing something that not even yoda should be able to do
You know, it just occurred to me that he might have thrown in that
That segment where he just said a bunch of insane shit just for us
I mean, I don't know why you would put that at the beginning
Well, I guess to try and get us off the video maybe
Not to get us to get us to laugh
I mean, I appreciate it if he literally did it just to get us to laugh because I mean, I mean if that's the case
It's like, okay, you filled the void that jared. Yes
Thank you
um, yeah
I've not actually heard this argument before by the way that people are annoyed that alia didn't do enough with the force and the ot
And that she didn't have closure with her father
She you know, like those are things that really weren't developed so they didn't have payoffs
Like like you, you know, there's a story to be had there I suppose but um
Strange because that's just not the focus at all and it doesn't really have anything
She's got her own shit going on like is what I would say
But then also to add to the whole like
That's what makes that scene so good is that we see her using the forces like we could have had any other way of doing that
we did we didn't we didn't need mary poppins that was not the requirement
and
Oh, there's debates constantly about whether or not she should have survived it. It's just like can we just drop it?
Of course, she shouldn't have survived it
Skywalker which leads me to another thing. I love about this movie. It directly addressed
Doesn't mean that she can't
She doesn't need training because both anakin and luke did
That's the thing that people tend to really look past like anakin the prodigy the one with the most midichlorians
He still needed training for what like two decades?
And that's a lot of training by the way, it's a lot and you're still training under the emperor we could assume so
Yeah, layer should just be that powerful. This is the problem
This is the exact problem with ray and you know, it's even worse with ray because she has no relation
Because at least if she was a skywalker we could be like, okay, I guess
She somehow managed to tap into luke's power
Without training that you know, that would still be kind of an issue, but not even that
She's a goddamn skywalker, which leads me to another thing. I love about this movie
It directly addressed something that i've thought about for years that maybe
The jedi kind of suck
What uh, like maybe they're elitist monk-like rules where they bury all their emotions aren't especially pretending like this is something new
Yeah, I think we all were on board hasn't that been exploited prequels
I thought that was the point of the prequels of the jedi were uh, we're bloated and uh
They had rules that we didn't really appreciate
From my point of view the jedi
Yeah, like that's kind of a part of the trilogy like 12 years ago and you know that
This is a complicated subject but it's like yeah the prequels are the story of how the jedi essentially
Through their own you could you could argue like like uh
Sort of sort of apathy like they're so comfortable in their position that the you know
There's a snake in the rose right in in in front of them
but uh
Let's see where he's going with this. I suppose
What like maybe they're elitist monk-like rules where they bury all their emotions aren't especially healthy and who the fuck said that
That was that was healthy
Like no, I don't think anybody interpreted it as healthy
It has been explored in many many star wars stories not just the prequels, but the expanded universe as well
Cults are exploited. Um
Do you think it's a republic under the impressions? Like do you think luke was emotionless in the ot?
He would go directly against all the teachings of the jedi in terms of maintaining no emotional attachments
kind of I don't even watch the prequels like
Yeah, this is strange that he's using the prequels to defend the last jedi as well
Those trick rules that led anakin skywalker to freaking out and murdering a bunch of kids and becoming dark
If let's just we'll leave that one go I suppose because he's pretty much on our team for the how it's like ridiculous
But now we know that luke tried to start a new jedi order and then pretty much the same thing happened all over again
So when luke said
Well, really I don't I don't think everyone's trying to kill him
Um, yeah, it's a little bit different because you know, you've got an actual sith lord who's orchestrated the destruction of the entire senate he
Is is and then you've got luke for some reason tried to murder his
His sister and best friend's son in his sleep and then he decided in turn
Do you remember how that goes? He wakes up
He then locks swords with luke and pulls the roof down on him luke gets knocked out kylo then kills every student
Other than the knights of ren and then leaves with them and luke wakes up to the aftermath
How insane is that that kylo was asleep?
He woke up to this guy trying to kill him who's supposed to be his teacher and then decides i'm gonna kill everyone here
And not luke by the way, he just forgets about luke
It doesn't make any sense at all, but it's so quick that people don't get to think about it
He just viciously bullied at the jedi academy
They were all just making fun of him because he's so crap compared to hud solo who's like epic as shit
They're like, oh my god, like why are you such a dweeb and he's like shut up
I'll kill all of you
All you're doing is your dad
You're your dad killed a death star. What have you done?
It's like oh, i'll make a new death star. It'll be bigger
Well, the explosion will be bigger
Because you just have like a snoke just walks in between the time that luke's under the rubble and gets out of it
And he's like you should kill all of them. He's like, yeah, sure. I don't even know who you are
It seems about right
Yeah, same exact story as the prequels really says the jedi don't work and should just stop before they ruin things some more
Yeah way to generalize it luke says that the jedi gave rise to palpatine and they were the ones that trained vader
Which is the kind of shit that really bugged me in the film
So I was like, yeah, just ignore the parts where the jedi were the ones that stopped him
You know you are that guy
You were the jedi that brought peace back
But let's ignore that part
Let's ignore the fact that all the jedi were betrayed and backstabbed across the prequels
Yeah, that's when they tried to prevent the rise of the sith. Let's ignore that too
Let's just say that the jedi caused it someone said that kylo ren is a school shooter
I mean it's the exact same story line people have actually compared him to that
like they just said
So basically it's like oh, so kylo ren killed all the people because they didn't have lightsaber control. Oh, got it
Some of you guys are all right. Don't come into the jedi temple tomorrow
Fucking hell
He knew that luke was gonna try and kill him that night
I'm sitting there in the theater applauding and shouting. Yes. Thank you
But wait, let's slow down a little bit because that's not exactly what's happening here
Despite what luke says at the beginning the movie doesn't actually think the jedi should end after all at the end
After luke has learned and grown he straight up says I will not be the last jedi
That doesn't mean that he supports the idea that the jedi should continue. He just points out the fact that he's not the last one
But it's besides the fact that yeah the the idea of the jedi had broken
Is terrible from luke's perspective. It doesn't even make sense like one of my issues with luke's character in the film
The movie doesn't want the jedi to end it wants them to evolve this whole movie is about moving on from the past
I like the force awakens and I think it does a great job introducing interesting new characters
But the movie is obsessed with the past
It brings back the original status quo and the original conflict and it's structured around. Well, no force awakens kind of did that but
The last jedi have obliterated them again quote unquote, you know
They've destroyed their entire army of star destroyers and ripped the the um, what was it called the supremacy in half?
so like
We don't even know if that's actually going to have an effect on the first order
I guess we'll find out in the next episode if that actually matters or if they just have another fleet of star destroyers because
the
But um, yeah, I would I would blame the force awakens for resetting the uh, the status quo more so than the last jedi
The last jedi did new things guys. We can appreciate that
The story of each we've seen before and full of images we've seen before but the last jedi moves forward
Maybe he was saying that that is the case
Is he saying that the last jedi is progressive well
He's saying it moves forward
And he and he did he did mention that they did stick it to the 1% don't forget that
I'm going to spend 10 minutes explaining how immaculately crafted the character arcs are because that's all covered in a great video on the channel
just right
I was gonna say wolf. How are you not reacting? Let's just let's just hear that again. Let's hear that again
I'm not going to spend 10 minutes explaining how
Immaculately crafted the character arcs are because that's all covered in a great video on the channel just right
So to clarify for you patrick since you are completely out of way
uh
One of just right's points were about po and how he refuses to learn and how
Uh holdo keeping the information from him was due to the fact that she couldn't trust him. Uh, we had a debate with him
And uh, I got we we got him to the point of being silent when we actually explained how it doesn't make any sense at all
For her to hold that information. So maybe
That video isn't as well crafted as most would think you know what? We should cover that at some points
We never actually did we covered his um
His video explaining reader response theory. We never actually did that one
We could we could put that on the list
Yeah, that would be good
But I thought you did cover this one though. No, no, I i've seen it, but i've never watched it on like a stream or anything
Um, but yeah, it's it the the true reasoning behind this by the way is that they promote each other's videos
I don't think they actually give a shit really
It's more about you scratch my back i'll scratch yours because if you remember just right promoted his video on um,
uh
plot holes
What are you doing wolf well
Oh, that's what you try to get
I
Mean you probably you just you could leave it. It's okay
I think most people in this stream have probably seen that anyway
If you haven't looked for the just right debate on on dishonored wolf's channel, but um
yeah, the the uh, the biggest thing with with just right was that he told us was that he kind of regrets making his hobbit series because um
He didn't want to take anyone's enjoyment of the films out of them
Which uh is kind of a sad sort of regression of his channel being that he wanted to celebrate good writing
Criticized bad writing now. He only wants to celebrate good writing and proper bad writing
Even if it's bad, like it doesn't really care as long as it made people feel stuff
so, um
It is interesting that this has come full circle now because he was promoting patrick and now patrick's promoting him
I guess that's just a
Back and forth. Why not friends, I guess. Yeah. Yeah, i'm not saying they probably talk to each other patrick won't though
They'll give just write this at least
He had the balls to come on and talk to us
Patrick has outright admitted on his twitter account that he will not talk to people that he doesn't have respect for
Yeah, and then it's developed into like people he agrees with basically
And that's the thing literally just outright admitted that he lives in an echo chamber
And that's the thing there are some people
Some people like like are okay with that. They'll be like, yeah, that's defendable. That's fine
It's just like well, it's not going to give you a very broad view of media ever
He did say that if you didn't like the titty monster scene, uh, he's not his friend
You're not his friend
We can't be friends anymore
Yeah, you still invited patrick to come and watch bad video essays with us on this on this on this channel
We'll we'll do it with you. It'll be fun
He won't do it. But the movie beautifully weaves together arcs for ray fin polluk and kylo ren in which they all i'm sorry
What the hell was kylo's arc? I have a good guy. I don't have a big guy. I have a good guy. Who's your beard guy?
Like interesting. He's just he does. No, I nobody has any idea what kylo's doing. Kylo certainly doesn't
Yeah
It's embarrassing because you know
Taking off his shirt a lot of people cite the fact that if he had actually like left the first order or
You know done his own thing become a lone wolf and be like, oh that could be interesting
I wonder where he's gonna it's like no
He just literally as soon as ray leaves is the defacto empire again and just starts assaulting
Hoth because why not high school rain?
Love it. It's like
As if the fucking how many movies can even have extremely detailed and meaningful?
Uh five different arcs in two hours, like it's it's you'd have to be pretty fucking impressive to be able to nail that
And it's like it's not that's not what happens in this film. It's just confusion
Is that in one film would you say or would you say across the three?
Well, I count the three as one film anyway, oh well, yeah in that case it extended that does have quite a few hours on
the last jedi
infinity war
Uh, you got iron man. I would say is is definitely a strong one
People would like who else who else would you say like thanos would be too?
um
Because a lot of characters are there right and i'm not saying it's a bad thing because I don't think you can have like
You know, it's like give everyone an arc give all 40 characters an arc. No, please
Um, but what i'm trying to argue is it's very fucking difficult to have five meaningful character arcs in one movie
You can do it. It's just that do you really think the last jedi was one of the films that did that? No
Oh, oh, I got one the gray there's six meaningful character arcs. Oh, there you go
Um, like I said video coming soon everyone there you go. And he'll prove he's gonna throw my plug in there
Is is your video gonna be if you guys don't like the gray you have bad taste and I don't want to be friends with you
well
No
Learn from failure and move on from the past finally all tying together right at the moment when haldo tears a star destroyer haldo
haldo
admiral held up
In recent cinema and if you're too hung up on the made-up science and this oh shit. Wait, did I skip over something there?
Learn from failure and move on from the past
Finally all tying together right at the moment when haldo tears a star destroyer in half in one of the straight up
Coolest moments in recent cinema and if you're too hung up on the made-up science in this fictional world of space wizards to enjoy that
Then I weep for you because I weep for you. Sorry it ruins the stakes of all of the past space battles
Sorry though
Do you guys remember being like on the edgy seat when they're trying to survive the onslaught of the death star in episode six?
While they try and get rid of the shield generator and you're like, come on do it
And then it was on the edge of my seat when um
When they started like pulling away from the death star
When they realized the shield wasn't down and then they came face to face with the fleet behind them
Yeah, and then the death star starts shooting up all their uh ships and it could do it in like only a minute
instead of an hour it's
Literally like one of the moments of just like jesus christ
The good guys are about to be obliterated like because they've just been trapped and the death star is active
And then the shield goes down and then the music rises that they all fucking go inside the death star and it's epic as shit
And it's just like when you watch that back now, you'll be like why isn't the x-wing just fucking
Where's this hyperdrive? Why isn't the millennium falcon just hyperdrive? Yeah
Yeah, that's like one of my one of the biggest questions that I have like
is hyper hyperspace hyperdrive like uh
Suicide bombing a thing apparently
Well, see some people like you needed that you needed a massive ship and it's like well the raddest had
The raddest has similar it's the biggest of the capital ships. I believe in history of
The star wars episode, but they still had those capital ships in episode six
Someone in the chat. I'm sorry. It just made me laugh really hard. Someone said how does this mother not beat him?
I forgot that they're even at this video. Like what was the point of them? I guess they're just a gag. That's probably it
But uh, yeah, um, that's that's he's saying like uh, I feel sorry for you
If you can't, you know get over the science part of it
And i'd be like normally it would be fine if this was the only movie in the fucking series
But unfortunately it ruins the stakes in the old one if I take this one seriously, which you can fucking guarantee I won't be
Logic it's the consistency between the films that we have issues with not necessarily the science of it
Yeah, it's not I can I can believe it that you can hyperspace into something and it destroys it
It's just the the other episodes are relying on the idea that that's not a thing. So
Yes, you've ruined that
It's like, uh, who am I going to believe the the
Well, it's not even the six you can count force awakens and rogue one and solo in the collection of films that did not fuck that up
All those films all the last jedi whose continuity you're going to follow. It's like
I'm gonna go ahead and follow the uh, the good ones if you don't mind
One more time this is a movie about space wizards intended for children
But the point and that's why you spent so long explaining why you adore this film and it's got some of the best
Cinematic experiences in recent memory. He does kind of imply that he's a child
So well, I was gonna say that I don't know if that's a low blow or not
Is that it is he that is that what he's trying to say?
Is he like I love this and I think it is for children. Therefore. I'm kind of like a kid like I don't know
He did kind of say that and the space was his argument as so many people getting frustrated at it
It's just like it doesn't mean anything. It doesn't fucking mean anything
Drop it. I don't know why you think it helps you
I'm making is that this is a movie about moving forward
It is not as some people believe about burning the past or killing the past
I don't think you're gonna
Good luck arguing that one
Isn't that the definition of like moving forward like I mean you could argue that yeah
Get rid of the past to move forward, but you know this film
Shits on the ot
More so than any other star wars film ever did that's why it's like wow. They really hated the past didn't they?
Yeah, because a lot of people cited the prequels really said, you know
Make the past die kill it if you have to
Yeah, and and as I said, there are there are youtubers who promoted that they were like
That's an interesting philosophy that if you want to move forward in life, you do actually sort of
Cut the past out of your life. You kill it. It's like fuck it up
cut down
I mean sure but
Doesn't work with star wars in the past die kylo ren while probably the best new star wars character since yoda
People keep saying that
Also, wait, why is he bringing dex to jester this i've got i've got a scene where the reasoning is burning the past are killing
The past or letting the past die kylo ren while probably the best new star wars character since yoda other than new dresser
Of course is a okay. Well at least
At least he knows that dex well, no, that's not a joke because dextre is the best character in the star wars expanded universe
I'm just saying we need a dextre star wars story
but
There's a lot of people I hate everything is one of the people that says that kylo is the best character across the saga
It blows my mind how you
Do you know how easy it would be for me and wolf to just write a story where there's a character who just keeps doing things?
They're just good and bad things and they just keep doing things and the audience is like wow
I wonder what their actual motivations are their goals are what they what they value
And that's how you write the best character apparently when you have nothing to go on when they're just insane
They just do things people like oh so interesting. You know why?
Because they're generating the character themselves
They're like oh they conflicted because of this this and they're doing this because of this this it's like
We didn't even get the scene where luke tried to kill kylo and people were saying that kylo was the best character in
Saga from force awakens, which again we've got barely anything to go on
We really have nothing to go on with kylo. He's just crazy. He does bad and good things all the time
He was like he's the best character on the new trilogy. He's not saying much
He's like a psychopath at the end of force awakens like trying to destroy everything kill everyone
Despite even with the wound and then like throughout the last Jedi. He's like
so um
I guess I am kind of a monster, but did you know that that's because of luke and it's like what the why are you you were like
Imperial dreadnought man being like I would kill everybody who opposes me now
You're like, you know, I may be a bad guy, but luke's not exactly a good guy. It's like what the fuck
It's like oh, he's so layered. He's so complicated. It's like
Sure
People in the chat are pointing out he's pretty much just a
Really bad knockoff of jason solo from the books
I don't really know much about jason solo. Yeah, I've definitely heard that before as well. It's but
Let me ask you this is he going to be a good guy or a bad guy in in the ninth episode when it starts
Well bad guy
The assumption would be bad guy
But if it started with him basically being outside of the the first order and then he contacts ray and says
We need to stop them and then she's like why should I trust you? I would just immediately be like, yeah
I guess he could do that. He just flip-flops all the time. So
Just be careful ray if you defeat the first dollar with him
Like who will be the villain that they will fight together if he ends up being a good guy
It'll be because you know glorm as I explained in my series. He's gonna be snoke's brother
He's gonna come in and be like you killed my brother and that'll be his character
You'd be like I can move planets with my hand and it'd be like ooh new force powers
Just crushes it and make fucking infinity gauntlets. It's all dying bad. It makes sense
Or maybe it'll go full dead space three and they'll have to fight an evil tentacle moon
They have to throw it into the black hole like in sola
We need more kathulu in star wars come on guys
Yeah, all that couldn't have been the end of kathulu all people are gonna say about
all people are gonna say about kylo is that he's super conflicted and it's so interesting to watch him deal with all the conflict and
you're just like
I was I was absolutely in the audience of force awakens that told myself when he killed han solo that he was
Definitively the bad guy, you know, I was like, oh he's just he's decided and then this film it was like no
He hasn't he's still a good guy and you're like, oh and then the end of this film is like no
He's the bad guy. He's just he's decided you're like
Ah
Wonder if they're gonna do that in episode nine to make him sympathetic because this is the thing they keep running out of times to
Make the audience go. Oh, I guess he is a good guy
Do you remember how vader was basically just strict evil right up until?
You know luke just kept fucking pushing
He was like finally did a good deed. It's like kylo
I don't even know what what they what they're going for
I swear to god if they redeem him at the end of episode nine
They're like he's actually the good guy and like ray dies to save him or something. We'll be like, oh god
At least we got rid of the mary soon
Maz canata's gonna die for him. We'll be like, oh my god. Maz. I
Oh, no, how did you get here? Who are you? I forgot which one are you?
A selfish entitled piece of shit and while the wait what was that? I'm assuming that was about kylo
Other than dextre jester, of course is a selfish entitled piece of shit
And while the movie presents his point of view it does not endorse it
One of the weirder aspects of the backlash to the last jedi has been how many people take kylo ren's side?
Claiming the movie really does want to kill the past and in the conflicting stories about that night in the jedi training camp
They believe him not luke. The movie is not same. Well, no, they give us an answer at the end
They they you know, it's it's luke's side of the story then kylo's and then we get the truth, you know
Where it's it's like a 50 50 thing
he's like saying that um
You know kylo ren's the most interesting and then he's like, well, I don't get why people are taking his side. It's like
um
Gee, I don't know
Maybe it's his luke decided to destroy everything that was built up for him and then he decided to become a psychopathic murderer
and then
kylo ren was given like
Some sort of reason to be it's such a mess dude
Because like you just you start at the beginning you go innocent guy trainings be jedi's master betrays him
You're like, oh wow. I you know that that gives my sympathy and it's like so he kills all the students you're like
What?
And then he becomes the new vader you're like what why and then you're like, then he decides that he might be good
And you're like, okay, but then he kills his dad. You're like, okay then you're like, but then he decides he might be good
You're like what?
I'm not following and then he decides to kill his master of the evil guys like oh
So he's a good guy. Then he decides to kill the good guys. You're like, oh jesus
It goes back and forth
Yeah, it'll be that's why I want to see episode nine because we will have the answers because it will end like the story will
Be well, who knows maybe they'll bait a sequel trilogy if you know what I mean by that like three movies to be equal
To the sequel trilogy
Yeah
But I don't get it. I just don't fucking get it kylo's confusing to me
I just like I think the biggest problem I have with him is the same as anakin where
The event that makes him evil does not explain the event of murdering innocent people in scores
immediately because a lot of people cite the fact that anakin killed the tuskin raiders kids and like
As that that's like a like a tell for how I just think there's a difference between like massacring a village full of
people who are essentially like
I don't know. They capture and torture people regularly, right versus what look to be what like five year olds
That are all hiding in a room
Like so, you know for me, it's difficult to accept that but then you've also got the kylo one where it's like
Yeah, I don't understand and it's like why are we in this position?
Well, because they gave us three flashbacks all of which were the same moment just told from slightly different. Um
Perspective like instead of actually taking some time to sort of show the progression
Why did kylo turn evil and why did that matter? Who was he before then?
What did luke see? It's like nah, nah, none of those are answered. You have stuff to think it up yourself
I mean at least fan fiction writers have lots of work to do
Yeah, they actually do research
They could be the ones that explain all of this
We should end the jedi it's saying we should take some of their lessons
But maybe not the dogmatic interpretation of their way of life
Oh kind of like the ot kind of like how the ot was like luke is pretty much a jedi
But the new jedi because it he clearly had emotional attachments to the point trying to save veda against yoda and obi-wan's wishes
Kind of like how we explored this already kind of like how the prequels showed
The bad side of the dogmatic nature of the jedi kind of like how the last jedi doesn't make sense in its message anyway, but
Go on go on. I mean guys yoda shows up and straight up states the theme the greatest teacher
Failure is which is one of my criticisms
If you have a theme don't bat it into the face of the audience. That's precisely the opposite of what you should do with a theme
Uh
Failure is the greatest teacher
um
Ray, I don't recall ray ever having suffered any sorts of failure
What people cite for that is usually that ray tried to get kylo to the light side and failed
That's her failure apparently
Again, her biggest flaw is being too nice
when this scene came up
When when this just came up the first thing I thought I just thought back to that er video on them
And I genuinely expected yoda to be like
fuck that shit
I I like uh the redlet media interpretation where they're just like why is yoda a crazy asshole in this
This scene when he's supposed to be all wise and shit. He's like playing the character
He was when luke first met him where he's just like
Destroy everything burn the temple
I just what happened to the freaking fish nuns in the morning where they were like
This is our only job to take care of this fucking place and you burnt it down you asshole
And it's like how did you do it the ghost puppet did it?
Like oh, I just like that er has pretty much replaced the bad memories of this movie with some happy ones
Yeah, uh, i'm surprised as a film major study a person that he's he's blatantly
Okay with a theme just being told to the audience of a film what we're supposed to do with the film
Or story is delve into the subtext and use the references to infer like a message or an idea
That's consistent throughout it instead of just going the theme of this film failure is
Best teacher and you're like, oh
Okay
neat
When it comes to its main themes this movie is not subtle and yet a whole lot of people miss what it should be
Subtle. Yeah, the theme should be subtle
I was gonna say the theme is blatant and in your face then you did a theme wrong. He's apparently aware of this
And he's using it as a counterpoint like people didn't catch the theme even though it was obvious
I think they did the problem is how badly done it is
Just because you have a theme doesn't mean it's virtuous of being a theme like come on
It has to be well done. You can't just go, you know in in we've been through this with
We did this with just right we were like there's a there's a theme of you know friendship and betrayal in the room
Like does that mean does that mean the room is incredible now?
It's like and I think just right was like well, you know, there are some people out there
We think
As soon as you said that it was like, okay
Yeah, it's done. It's over. He wants to say that the room is a masterpiece by subjective status or sure. Whatever
When it comes to its main themes this movie is not subtle
People miss what it's doing because they'd rather obsess about how I don't know force fields work now
What what
I thought he was gonna reference the lightning from yoda that would make more sense
But no he went with force fields. I can't even think of a thing. Were there force fields in the last jedi?
I'm not sure what he's referencing. Maybe the gravity part of the bomber that they would have been of they're supposed to be a
force field
See this is the thing a lot of people
Said they're really annoyed with my series because I didn't talk about the themes and I focused on plot holes and stuff
I've got like a 20 minute section on themes in the third part
It's probably not that long but like I go into how stupid it is
To use themes alone as a defense for the film
And it's like trust me just because I hated the plot holes doesn't doesn't mean that I ignored the themes
I saw them. They were clear as day
Of course, and this is what I mean. It's like they hammered into you as part of why they're so bad
Well ray poe fin and kylo i'll learn from their failures and grow as people
Is the best and the moment when he works oh god
Go back go back go back patrick. You can't lay that on us so quickly
Is not subtle and yet a whole lot of people miss what it's doing because they'd rather obsess about how
I don't know force fields work now while ray poe fin and kylo i'll learn from their failures and grow as people
Side note fin's arc is the best and the moment when he wrecks phasma and proudly declares himself to be rebel scum
Is my favorite moment in the movie and it didn't make any sense because he has no reference for the rebels only the resistance
We should have said i'm resistance scum or something, but even outside of that though his arc
Does anyone have a stab at what they thought his arc was because i'm still pretty lost on that one
He doesn't even have any training to face phasma. He became scum, I guess
So that sounds kind of racist i don't know imagine if he's like resisted scum
Doesn't sound as good as it
Um, so yeah his he goes from being
I want to run away from everything to okay
I want to run away, but I will defend the people I love being ray
I suppose or care about then he goes to in order to protect ray this time
I need to leave the ship and you know
Go back to being sort of cowardly and bumbling because they have a couple of bumbly jokes with him again
Which i've never really gotten with fin. I don't know why they make him bumbling all the time. Just like okay cool
He's like a clown I guess and then he gets called a coward several times by rose and put onto this quest to
save the fleet
and then convinced by
dj
By the realization that good guys and bad guys power the one percent
That is what gives him the idea to yes. I'm gonna die for the resistance
the most confusing shit
Ever to think about yeah
It's a very confused character arc if there is everyone like I said, I I've put it in my video
But I just I cannot get over the fact that he has a lesson on how
Morality goes both ways and how there is no right guy in this in this war
And then he decides there is a right guy from that. It's like
How did you get that? How did that happen?
Kind of missing the point there fin because yeah because dj would be so disappointed in him if you like
I thought I told you man jeez
But yeah, okay fine. He's got the best dog apparently
Okay
The best example of this is mr
Lucas skywalker drinker of milk and catcher of big fish now. I love luke skywalker
I love him when he's whiny. I love him when he's heroic and I really love him when he's conflicted
And in the conversation around the last jedi i've discovered that a lot of people have misunderstood luke skywalker for a really long time
Oh, okay
It's the same thing mackintosh said it's that we don't get it. It's always that's always hard work. Okay
Okay, we don't want luke's presentation here is one of the most controversial aspects of the movie
They took our hero and made him a sad bitter old man. And yeah, I get it
It's and they didn't explain it but yes go on a bit of a shock
Just look at ray. She's shocked
She thought he was going to walk out with a laser sword and face down on the whole first order
And he has no intention of doing that
Now I spent an unhealthy amount of time reading the comments from this movie's detractors and a ton of I thought you didn't
I thought you didn't have it. I know why people don't like it
Really?
I thought that's what he said. He's a liar
If you actually did you would actually respond to their arguments?
A lot of these things that you point out are mostly straw men
Yes, uh, nobody's arguing. Nobody's arguing about the force field. It's like also
Why are you looking at the comments for for comments on a kid's movie, dude? That's just sad. It's just a kid's movie
Take him so seriously god patrick. Why are you drinking coffee as kids drink?
Wait, he has milk too in the other videos. Look this is kids drinks taking it seriously as a drink
What's that little blue thing by your hand patrick? Yeah, it's probably a kid's thing
That's what it looks like to me. It looks like the lid of a cookie jar. Why are you eating cookies kids kids eat cookies?
Of people wanted him to be off on that island learning ancient jedi secrets getting more powerful
And then showing up till it didn't have to be that didn't have to be that it could have been that he was looking for
an answer on how to
Maybe fix something or or learn about some
Trick that could have helped in some way. It doesn't doesn't have to be that he becomes god
Or something it didn't he could have died in this film by failing to defeat someone in a fight like snoke
For example, and you still could have done it. Well, it's by execution my friend
And and the biggest issue by the way is like i've always said is like luke could have been
The guy we saw in that film
But if you don't show us how he got there, which by the way would take like three films probably to do it correctly
Then we're just not going to believe that's luke. Why should we?
It's just a new guy that you called luke and you wanted to tell us that he used to be luke simple as that
It's jake skywalker
Nickname people gave to him. Oh
Someone in the chat said waiting for the random shot at cinema sentence. I'm sure we'll get that. Oh
pull star destroyers out of the sky and
Becoming a super saiyan, I guess but luke skywalker is not a power fantasy
Who are you countering with this who are you talking to?
Who is who is saying? I want to see luke pull star destroyers out of the space
Okay, good for you. I read every comments guys
I read every yeah, that's that's the most consistent thing people were saying they wanted to see luke pull star destroyers out of space
That was that's what I was reading everywhere
That's what me and wolf said. I think that was the end of both of our videos. We said the biggest issue
Was that he didn't pull star destroyers out of space
A new hope is not about ordinary kids just like star killer
Yeah, I was gonna say i'm surprised he must maybe he's referencing that he just doesn't want to admit it
I don't know
But luke skywalker is not a power fantasy
A new hope is not about an ordinary kid becoming the biggest badass in the galaxy
It's about an ordinary kid who wants to be a part of something greater
To have a purpose in the universe and as his story goes on he does that but finds out that it's way more complicated than he thought
Why are you saying this like it counters something?
It's so bizarre, you know, it's funny how he said, um
That we don't understand luke skywalker. He says
Yeah, everything so far he said about luke is correct
And he's saying it like you see you were wrong the whole time. It's like no, this is what we're saying
Stop what are you doing?
Turns out his family is a fucking mess
It turns out that he's a little bit angry and every so often he needs to put on some disturbed and get dark
Oh jesus
I hate you for putting disturbed on here. Oh god
Because I don't like disturbed because I do like disturbed. I just hate that you're using it
I can't believe he's used that on this scene. Oh way to sap the emotional value
fucking disturbed
Oh
Like i'm not gonna associate him with disturbed and I don't like that. Oh jesus. Why couldn't you pick anything else?
Stop it
Luke's a complicated guy and to return to him 30 years later and have him be an ultra powerful paragon of goodness
Would be pretty boring. Oh my good god
At least explain how he can be from one to the other that's what people are arguing
Jesus christ as simple as that if we if luke was luke, it would have been boring
That's how that works
You know who else is complicated ray it's weird that she gets accused oh jesus christ
Do you remember the scene where ray says, uh
He says why are you here ray and she's like I have no idea
Because there's nothing to go on. She has no idea what's going on
As to being a flawless character who never makes mistakes because man she has got problems
She has no idea what you're gonna have to really really lie about the narrative this time
You're gonna have to stretch the seeds as best you can hear what to do with herself and keeps running to different people
Yeah, that's true she does she does seem to connect with different people
She's doing the feminist face now
Would be pretty boring. You know who else is complicated?
Ray it's weird that she gets accused of being a flawless character who never makes mistakes because man
She has got problems. She has no idea what to see. Oh, I can't help
She has a problem. I can't help it seems very he's very manipulative in the way
He just said that right that he deliberately throws in the the idea
So instead of saying people are saying that she has no flaws and they cite these as reasons
I'm gonna argue against that instead of that he skips over those people as if they're irrelevant
He's like man. Does she have so many flaws?
It's like no, you know that that is that is the complete opposite of the the most common thing said about ray
Like you're doing it to quickly get rid of it
You're like no the idea that she has no flaws out of the way out of the way
We're not talking about that we're talking we're gonna talk about all these things that i'm just gonna make up
For fuck's sake has got problems
She has no idea what to do with herself and why is it no idea what to do with herself?
That's the writer's fucking problem. It makes her non-human
She's like she had a goal that she just forgets about it. No, she's just following. She's like a pinball inside a pinball machine
She's just like whoa. Whoa. I'm over here now. Oh, i'm gonna go i'm gonna go see luke like fine. I guess whoa
Oh now i'm getting trained by luke sort of not really i'm gonna go to kylo now
I have no reason to do any of these things
But yeah ray is kind of like that that guy who's trying to join your group of friends
But none of you actually want him to be there and you're just kind of hoping that he'll leave at some point
And he has like no interests that you can discern you're like, what do you like and he's like hmm stuff?
like
neat sort of guidance she plainly states also also wait a second. I really like how he says that
Show me my plan
I really like how he says that ray has so many flaws
I have so many flaws because she doesn't have she has no idea what to do and yet she can like fly
the
The millennium falcon like early on
Like without even just training. Yeah, like not knowing where you want to go today
That's not really what people call a flaw. He'll be you'll be all right, especially if you're as powerful as her
you
As flaws go, you know, everyone else is dealing with like addiction or uh, just sins in general like pride and stuff
She's just like yeah, i'm not sure where i'm going to vote to be honest
I might go over there and they're like, oh
I hope that works out for you and she's like who knows we'll find out episode nine
I suppose different people hoping they'll provide her with some sort of guidance. She plainly states it
I need someone to show me my place in all this
And this brings us to the incredible moment when kylo ren reaches out his hand and offers her a place she can belong
We have no idea what he's even really offering it he's just like let's
Let's go to somewhere. Let's leave the first order and and go somewhere maybe to a planet chill out somewhere
I can show you the galaxy
Like let's be honest if she'd taken his hand and he was like, let's get into a shuttle and then they just fly away
It would be like ray
What are you doing?
What's the plan here ray?
What's what's gonna happen now? Like don't you this is the part that really fucks with my mind is that she
Furiously hates him at the end of force awakens on the beginning of this film and it takes her like
The story that luke saw a bad future in kylo
To convince her that kylo is worth saving
It's like but you've seen that luke was right
He did have a bad it's like yes, but luke caused it. It's like
Luke didn't ask kylo to kill all the students you idiot
Yeah, let's ignore all the genocides that kylo committed
It's insane it doesn't make any sense at all and it's just
They look at it as layered they look at it as complicated and you're like, oh
I guess I guess you could look at the movies have had a lot of moments where bad guys ask good guys to join them
But this was the first time that I thought there was a chance the good guy might actually accept
And that is the mark of good storytelling
You can't even tell us why it's just she did no issues going so why not join the bad guys, I suppose
It wouldn't have made any sense. She has investment in the good guys. She knows all of the good guys
Why would she go with kylo? It wouldn't make any sense
Should I just if she had and this is the thing with how badly written the film is I could have seen her going with it
Man, I would have made a video about how it doesn't make any fucking sense that she would have gone with him
But she didn't so that's not where we are. But interesting that you just call it good writing. It's
Fascinating. So i've talked a lot about how I wanted this movie to push star wars forward and do new things
And it did all of that, but I also said I wanted to rip roaring good time and it is absolutely 100 percent that
The thing begins with the space I mean yeah if characters say woo, you know
This is all you need at that point. Um, wait, didn't he say this before?
like what
Didn't he say that?
Well, it's I just I want to just want a good time and then he proceeded to say which one were the best battles like
Did
Well, if you I mean, yeah, he definitely has complemented the battle already, but why not just do it again, you know only 100 percent that
The thing begins with a space battle that ends with a desperate last stand where the resistance has nothing to use
But ms dos computers and janky little what?
What what?
Okay
Fighters on a salt planet and porgs are popping up everywhere. Why why is why is that a positive?
Fazma has a sweet spear
Fazma has a sweet spear
Sure, every single thing in the scene rules so hard except the choreography
Sure, everything rules. Oh my god. He he's he's fanboying so much like a freaking tar like
I know he's there's no discussion anymore. It's just this is good. Even if it's awful, this is good
Okay
Sweet spear and every single thing in the scene rules so hard and also this is the funniest goddamn thing
Oh, I feel something. Yes. I feel it. That's the boars. Really? Wow. Let's be really strong with you
And yeah guys this movie is yeah, i'm fine with that joke, but it doesn't save the movie
Ah, that scene was funny, but it doesn't save the movie funny
I know you love old sourpuss Christopher Nolan and the stoic dower tone. He brings to everything but
What what what?
Wait, did that come?
He kind of did that in the last did I too like what's what's with the nolan hate that was weird
Yeah
All right
Yeah, just just fuck Christopher Nolan and his films sourpuss Christopher Nolan and the stoic dower tone
He brings to everything but lighten up. You ever see goodfellas? That movie is funny
It's also scary. What the hell are you doing right now arguing that there's comedy and dramatic films?
infinity war came out
Did this year? I don't know. Wait, wait, wait. What was the movie that he said? It was funny goodfellas
I
Okay, I guess it needs to have one joke in it for it to be as good as the last jedi
I guess that's required. I have no idea what's going on anymore
Wolf you alive
No wolf is dead Patrick killed him
Very intense and emotionally devastating a movie can make you feel different things humor is good
Why am I even explaining this you have to explain it because it was totally borked
You can have comedy and drama, but you don't do what fucking ryan johnson did
Nobody's even arguing that the like the humor is like
Is anyone even argued that the humor in the last jedi was bad?
Well, i've definitely heard people argue that the the the joke like the the yo mama joke didn't exactly land for a lot of people
Did it and I have to return?
He's he's just said wolf in defense of the humor in the last jedi that there is humor in films, you know
What don't you agree you saying there isn't humor in good films, is that what you're saying
You know dramatic
God
And unrelated but I just want to mention how much I love adam driver's delivery of blow that piece of junk
Yeah, I loved him going right back to being a cartoon after
Baiting development and then removing it. It was great
God, look at that face
About moving on moving on from failures and selfishness and self-loathing and empty heroics
Moving on from only certain families and those are nice ideas, but they executed them horrifically badly
Special and everything being like it was 30 years ago
Moving on from the same old story beats and the same old status quo which they brought back and then reestablished and continued
They did not break it at all
even people who
Even people who liked the last jedi will usually cite that it's such a shame that kylo became
You know the emperor basically and that we're back to being rebels versus empire again
Just like don't mention that part though. Yeah, don't mention it
I love star wars
I love the world and the characters and the feeling I get every time that the title hits the screen as the fanfare explodes out
Of the speakers and watching the last jedi. I was hit by a thought
For the first time I could see this story continuing for decades to come
Yeah, they they can run it right into the ground. Maybe you are right. We should stop
They're gonna make millions where you have to stop
That would dude i'm not even kidding when I saw that scene my takeaway was oh
They have an excuse to make a million star wars films now. That's the only reason this scene exists
You know that you can't just keep a series going forever because it tends to turn into shit every time
What long-running series?
James bond is just up and down and up and down like there's good ones bad. What's good. What's bad
The latest one was awful as far as I know
I haven't actually seen it. Yeah
Specter it was
Yeah, a lot of people didn't like it, but there's a new bond coming as far as I know
Well, yeah, but doesn't james bond i'm not super familiar with i'm not at all familiar with the james bond films
Isn't it like it's not all the same continuous story. It's more like it's almost a genre
It's practically just a spy like each film is only connected by genre really more like superhero films in that sense
Yeah, so it's not just the same story
At some point you can't you can't continue the same story forever and ever and ever and ever and ever you can obviously
They can jump to another part of the galaxy
Or universe even and have no references to any of the characters that we know and love or whatever
Which by the way i'd be on board with because you can just make something
with star wars
uh
I don't know rules in the universe obviously because the force is quite a fun thing to to mess around with bounty hunters are cool
You can make loads of alien things
But like no if they carry on
With ray it's just gonna go on and on and this is the thing
I think some people on this planet thought that maybe we could fast forward by a million years and we have like
Thousands of star wars films and you know what?
Maybe more than half of them were good. Maybe that could happen
But like yeah, the last jedi has fucking killed so many people's investments. It's like
No, i'd rather you just stop making them now
Yeah, like solo bomb for god's sake like it's
The how solo bomb it's just it's astonishing like also it's funny star wars
You'll find a lot of people are like bombed. Oh, so it made 420 million or whatever and you consider that bad. It's like
You judge it by how much they spent
Like that's how it works
If you spend 250 million on fucking marketing then any film is going to make a lot of money
I mean assuming you can make a good trailer instead of it being god-awful, but yeah, you know, it's it's interesting
We'll genuinely I think the damage the last jedi has done will be found in the box office for episode nine rather than solo
But solo definitely shows
blood in the water if you will
Yes
It was the moment in the battle of crate when the millennium falcon arrives with chewy in the pilot seat and ray operating the gun turret
My mind flashed forward years from now and I thought about how we'll talk about star wars in terms of eras
There will be constants through the series
The millennium falcon will remain but we'll talk about the era when han solo owned it or the era when
Or when l3 piloted it
You ever remember that era or when l3 became it oh all of it
great
Jesus
Rated and this was all because of things the last jedi did
This was no longer a story about special people from a few select bloodlines
That's not what that's that was never the restriction. It was never
What bloodline did anakin have born out of nothing
And then what about all the people on the jedi council were they all from skywalkers lydia or something like come on
That's not what they were saying skywalk. He was just legendary to he was prophesied to be the most powerful jedi
That's that's and they judged it by midichlorian count or whatever. Maybe that's potential
I'd have to look at the actual explanation for it because I can't remember but
The prequels and the ot never said you have to come from a bloodline to be powerful
Or to be a force user. Let's say there's not a thing you're inventing that the last show didn't change shit
Works
Like I love how they change the narrative to that our complaints are not that it's that we this is crazy
I know but we like the idea that you train practice and become better at a skill. That's cool to us
Because we relate to that
It's something humans have to do pretty much across the board
Anything you want to do you have to get better at it by doing it
It's a thing. You don't just automatically become the best fucking carpenter in the world
Yeah, I actually really like the idea
I actually really like the idea of like new people from
Different parts of the galaxy just becoming legendary based on their own merits rather than lineage
Like people really like that idea can happen. That's the thing
It was never like you can't have it
This is the thing they could have traveled to a planet where there was a force using guy
But he wasn't like a jedi and it could just be like he's he's the warrior of this planet or something like that
There's the the originals never said you couldn't do that simple as that
He's like no the last jedi opened it up
This is a story about a whole galaxy and the people it was a story about
A space chase at a casino world. That's what it was about. There's there's no galaxy in there
Are you kidding me?
The one thing that everyone pretty much universally agrees upon with the disney trilogy is that they've made an enormous universe feel extremely small
And that everyone happens to bump into each other like they're all the supermarket it's
But this is the thing
Did this better where they made it at least kind of feel like you were in the same galaxy
Yeah, they gave us
Takodana was a planet they went to and then we had the death star planet. That's something
I guess we got crate wolf. So you can't complain about half 2.0. All right
People who shape its future could come from anywhere they could be anyone from here
Star wars could go anywhere and it always could you piece of shit?
It was never limited in the first place. Should it really be anyone can just do everything though?
Well, that's that's the difference
He's kind of arguing what as if as it our problem is that anybody can become
Darth Vader now and he's saying yeah, that's great that anybody uh is allowed to use power and train is like no
No, no, we're saying that they skip the part where they become it. They just are it and that's the problem
We're fine with anyone becoming powerful over time just you know, you have some goblin
Who's like in a sewer and he realizes he can actually move something if he really concentrates
Then we have a whole movie about him getting powerful and then he starts his own religion
And then you then the jedi are like no you're a jedi and you know, that could be a story
I want to see the goblin man fight the jedi. There's there's my star wars story. They go disney make it
I'm on board goblin man. I want a sith movie on korban. That'd be great
I want I want a horror movie in the star wars universe. Give me gimme gimme. Oh that's star wars death troopers
Not a movie. It's a book and it's literally just dead space but star wars
And that's what I would say is actually doing a job of getting outside of what star wars is
More so than the last jedi the last jedi was just like a mess like somebody who likes the last jet star wars
But thought that loads of it was wrong
Like oh they did this in the originals and I didn't like that. So let's fix it
No, please stop it. Stop him
Time I watch it. I found that idea more and more moving
I don't care who that kid with the broom is it doesn't matter
What I do care about is the hope and determination I see in his eyes
He looks pretty bored to me
Where's the hope and determination exactly
It's so I I go over the video
It's like it's so dumb that he gets so inspired by the story from luke when the only people who could tell it
Would have been from the perspective of the resistance. All they saw was him walk outside
They don't really see what happens after that
They just like have to assume and then from the perspective of the storm troopers. It's like
Oh, well, he was a ghost
Holler he was a hologram
Uh, yeah, I don't know what prediction and it's almost like oh that sounds really heroic
It's like I don't know what it was
He just he was there and then he was gone
I don't know
Like why would kids be inspired by that compared to the story of luke and his friends taking down the death star twice and obliterating
The fascistic government like how how are they even remote?
30 years ago and that has managed to become a story that's fallen into myth so hard that nobody finds it inspiring
It's like how sad is that?
You're a jedi harry
Ever since george lucas made that first film
Star wars has been about how an ordinary person can escape their circumstances and become a part of something greater
And the last jedi is a movie that understands that okay
And now because I couldn't find a more natural way to incorporate them into the speech
I want to just mention a bunch of random little things
I love in this movie the incredible texture and color palette of steve yedlin's cinematography
Score and how he weaves together countless light motifs from the entire things that you could say about pretty much all the star wars films
Yeah a lot of mainstream
Highly budgeted films these days and i'm not even saying that as a criticism
I'm saying that when you have a very high budget you can afford the very best lighting and camera and cgi artists
and i'm not saying that their craft isn't appreciable it is appreciated, but
It's unfair because the people who make indie films who only have them
Two friends and ten dollars to make a film with but have an incredible story
By this guy's standards. He'll be like nah, he was shit and then he's like the shit
Someone in the chat pointed out that this contradicts what he said because apparently he said that the score was boring and forgettable
Did he really when did he I I don't know it was just someone that someone said it in the chat
I don't know if it's actually true or not to be honest
Yeah, because we're gonna say he didn't say in the plot holes video, but I haven't seen all this star wars stuff
Wipe that nervous expression off your face to reveal the gialo-esque design of snoke's chamber
R2's cheap trick when the porgs are poking at the lightsaber when the sad porg looks at chewy. Oh
God, okay
This is all good stuff about the movie. I'm sorry, but if if you just they're small if you just listen off the porg
Moments i'm starting to like be like, oh, that's that's what you're looking for. Okay
The superficial these are small
Yeah, music music things that you like music visuals and porgs
No, i'm saying he's listing things. He's listing everything outside of the fucking writing. We're just like oh
I mean i'm pretty sure everyone is in agreement that the movie didn't sound good
So I thought this movie was I thought this video rather was supposed to be explaining
The things that people are more contentious about which is the story. No one's really contentious about like I got frustrated
Um, I got frustrated at some of the music because it was like I got I got the whole you know
Like if it was a great movie and then they they referenced the old music
You're talking about how they reused the death star, right?
But like if I like the film I might have enjoyed that but because I was getting so frustrated
I was like don't you fucking take their music put it back. It's not yours
It's not that I disliked the music
It's just that like most of it was just remakes of songs
We already had in the previous movies and everything that was new didn't stand out enough for me to remember any of it
It just during battle when the pork hits the window when jesus christ, he's actually gonna cite every single porg
Should we swatch the porg off the dashboard? The porgs are great
Oh jeez, man, you're like disney's favorite customer
They made this for you, I think but remember he said he's not a shill and no
I mean, he also said this is meant for children
The way dj wears his boots around his neck
And this is the guy who's saying that we need to stop trying to critique films because we don't know what we're talking about
Okay, what does dj wearing his boots around his neck to his character at all it was cool
Shut up
When hux thinks he can kill kylo when poe rubs bb8's belly
The whole design of crate so that as warfare breaks out on the planet
It actually looks like it's bleeding luke's wink at c3po
The way luke first saw leia via a projection and the last time she sees him is a projection
See it rhymes like lucas loves. This is a weird movie to talk. Don't even
This is so these connections are so irrelevant like so tiny
They be okay, they would be what I would call neat pics
It's like you just highlighted little things that just have no fucking relevance
People are pointing out the chat bb8 has a belly
apparently
Fucking no, apparently according to patrick of house williams. He's a very
esteemed
Critic about this video ended up being longer than it should need to be because it's not enough to say why I think the movie
Is good
It's longer than it needs to be because he didn't have enough time to say why it what?
Okay, just go go one more time with that one
Like lucas loves this is a weird movie to talk about
This video ended up being longer than it should need to be because it's not enough to say why I think the movie is good
So the the point of the video is to say why it's great and the video ended up being longer than it needed to be
Because not as long as it needed to be
He's like he said it's longer than it needed to be
But he needed to explain why it's good when the intention was to explain why it's great. I am so confused by that line
But go ahead
He actively responds to all the people who are going to say but why didn't you talk about this thing?
That's bad months ago. I said there was no way I would make this video
But the truth is that since december. I haven't stopped thinking about the last jedi
But it's the kids movie dude, okay, it's a kids movie dude, okay, man
Okay, is there a kids movie you stop thinking about the kids movie
You gotta be more adult and think about adult things stop thinking about the kids movie and to all the people who hate it
I wish that you could see what I see because
I wish that you could understand a single argument that was thrown against you and not strawman it and besides
Patrick give me one movie you do not like just give me one and then i'll throw the exact same statement back at you
I wish you could see what I see
in
the room
Wish you could understand the quality of the room. It's like
Just uh, it's like watching someone eat shit and then you go cool. All right, you could then he's like
I wish you could taste what I taste like
I'm right
I'ma just i'ma eat real food. You could eat
You can eat that dude. I'm good
Oh, not an argument is the short version of what I just said
And we're done guys, thank you so much. You were fantastic as always now
I am going to take this footage and put it online. I'll see you later
Well, what about your parents here? You're gonna it's gonna be for this. This will be the gag. I guess this will be the payoff
You don't think anyone is actually going to watch that do you?
I don't know. I would
No one cares about you
Wow
All right, but I say jedi schmell
Perfect no, no, no, no, okay. I think that deserves another one
He
He likes his his square space and his i'm assuming audible
It's where you can learn to learn about the last jedi learn about writing
It'll be great even though you can't really learn about writing because there's no such thing as good or bad writing. So
Yeah, that was it we did it. Um, I don't I don't really know how to sum up that video
He likes the milk titty monster scene, I think that's a good summary I mean
To explain why the last jedi is great. It's like you could have done way better than that. I could have done better than that
like yes, you it's so meandering
Because he went from like let me do a huge disclaimer for why anybody who doesn't already agree with me is an asshole
It's like, okay, and he was like, let me name a bunch of things that apparently aren't serious reasons for why it's good
then let me read sort of
Like revise how the actual scenes went
And describes you the characters rx without explaining it
And then ends with a bunch of random tiny things like porgs are awesome
So yeah, uh, I get that you like the film I do not understand
From what you've just given there any sort of reason why I I don't follow
Even a little bit I still
Yeah, it would be much better if you just come on in and just talk like debate or
Well, I mean if just right you actually like it if just right was anything to go by
You present them a contradiction and then they will say it doesn't matter
And that's how the conversation will go every time
Wait, wait, wait, wait
Wasn't that video that that he shelled about just right the actual video that you were watching before just right came in
No, we watched his follow-up one that explained that everybody has a different opinion on things
In case you had no idea about that
Oh jeez, I was gonna say, you know, i'm glad that I just shared that with you because you probably didn't know you probably uh
Weren't aware that everybody is different. It's fascinating stuff
um, yeah
So, uh, yeah, we'll we'll we'll probably be able to do some form of another video, but I was gonna say, uh podcasts
Name everybody use that link who's not used it already
And you can vote on what name you think the podcast should have I think that probably one of the most
Narratively suitable names is currently winning. But I mean the top two choices are pretty good
um
I guess I should read super chats as well because i've let i've let them flow for for a while and when you
Re-upload this on your mooler channel. You should put the straw poll in the it'll be in the description
Yeah, that'll make sense. I'll probably put in the uh top comment
Um, that's true
So where where are we? Uh
YouTube police more like yif gate. I mean that's the that's actually made me think um
We're still hoping to get yms on something like this eventually
Him and wolf have that they share that language that that i'm far too high class to be able to engage in
It's um
it's it's still a hope for anybody who's wondering i'm not sure what's gonna happen though because uh
I don't know. It feels if we couldn't get er it feels very unlikely that we get yms
But you know, maybe well at least yms like responds er just
Vanishes for long periods of time. This is true, but he did he started a patreon recently
So maybe we'll be seeing more of a more presence from him eventually like if he tries to go full time
I think that's his issue right now is that he's not
Uh, the reason you can't understand their logic is because there is none
It's not supposed to make sense. You're supposed to follow without question. You're applying logic to illogical people in finness
He did actually make the video where he pretty much spat on logic. So
Hmm
Those are all terrible. I thought the podcast names were all right. I thought they were pretty good
If you guys have got better suggestions
You know if you want to keep keep an eye on the chat wolf or or
Or app event like if you guys think that uh
They come up with better names
We'll we'll go for it
Remember all the ones that are in there right now are all suggested from the audience. So
Um, someone said kfp kentucky fried porgs
What for a podcast name?
I don't know. I just thought it was funny
Uh, there's only one tian island. That's barry's. I don't get it if it's a reference
Fucking space wizards that opening scene in tfa was really intended for children. Oh, yeah, you know when they massacre all the innocent people
You guys remember that bit?
All the innocent villagers who are like begging for a mercy and they'll get killed. Yeah, that was a
Strictly a kid's movie. Um
Oh, yeah, we read that one. Uh
It takes talent to have a five head and zero points
What a five head is he talking about oh because
Because patrick williams has I I think five head would be underestimate
You know when you put like your four fingers on your forehead that connects?
Oh
I get it. I get it. But um
I mean no offense to no no like i'm really not trying to be a dick here
But like i've seen people's hair lines that are
Stronger than patrick williams. It's like you may as well shave at that point because
I don't know like how far back that is
I don't think i've seen it go that far back on a person that age that hasn't decided to shave it
You know, most people do yeah, like look i'm i'm 21 and I will admit it's nothing
I'd like to admit too because it's not something I like
But male pattern baldness runs in my family
And I got it at 21 and i'm not happy about it, but I would never let it get to that point
I just shave it bald
Is at least I can grow a beard
Yeah, do the go kratos
Why not?
Uh, yeah, yeah
Waltham mauler do a podcast with jeremy from geeks and gamers. He's friends with jeff from world class bullshits
I mean, there's no limit on who we could uh have on this thing to be honest
As long as they're okay with like being here for hours on end
Ripping into like one video. He's a lot like you mauler. He's he's uh
Gone up pretty quickly
Sweet. I don't know. I don't think I know him. I do. I do know him through
World class bullshits in terms of like references, but I don't think i've seen the channel. Oh, yeah
I I don't know him personally, but I have seen a few
I like his stuff
Uh, his only argument was there was a jab at cg really that's probably a reference to something that I mean it was
It was a while ago now. So
Uh, tlj surprised me that a movie could be so johnson bravo ryan bravo fandom menace
Yeah, I mean he's making another movie right now, isn't he?
Some kind of I think it's with hevner kavil. That's what i've heard some kind of
Thriller spy thing or something or it could be someone else
But like everyone is now waiting to see it just to see if it's bad or something
I was like, I don't I don't particularly care like
It dude, I i'm not sure
I guess people are gonna hire him now because he's controversial. Would that be a good reason to hire a director slash writer?
I don't know
don't know
Uh, do you think his parents know he still lives with them?
I hate the movie for all the reasons more pointed out if you like it great
You can ignore the narrative. This guy has never watched star wars ever. I don't think he lives with them
I think he visits them and
Like I guess does these this video because I don't know why the parents were in this video to be perfectly honest with you
they seem
It's a skit a pointless skit that he doesn't understand comedy
Well, he liked the last jedi. That's all about that's all about comedy, right?
right
His coffee pot looks like a t-rex is coming
Oh because of the because of the vibrations under canadian military law po following the retreat order would be illegal
Following the retreat order well in in crate
Which also, yeah, I guess we don't even know what the laws are for um, the resistance considering
Uh, it's like a complete mess that there's 20 people left on a ship that's not even theirs. So
Yeah, I don't even know
If they ever established that they were unable to get better bombs, then it would have been better
I don't see why they wouldn't have access to y-wings
But I mean why would they be why would they have access to those bombers not bombers that are effective?
It would be my question I suppose
um
Wait, wait, didn't those bombers can do can hyperdrive to space like why if the bombers are going to be destroyed anyway
Oh, yeah, why did this hyperspace everything if you hyperspace every bomb literal bombs into somebody surely that would do massive damage
massive damage all of the damage tons of damage
Oh, there was also somebody in the super chat said oh my god, right
And johnson is so racist that he casted asian people to do kamikaze bombings
If if this film was like hated by that crowd, they probably would have pointed that out
Like honestly, that's the kind of shit they do
Um the tinese really hate this film
They do they yeah, uh didn't solo like
Barely even make even remote sense of like money like it got booted out like straight away as far as I know
Yeah
But the last jedi survived a week. I think before it was pushed out. So
Yeah
Uh, even the y-wings were made to be cheap as they stripped out visions from the clone wars and rebels even show this
I don't think it's a matter
I don't know what it is because they they established that they buy stuff from the canto bite people
And for some reason they only bought literally the worst fucking ship in the history of star wars
Like let's buy loads of those ones
Uh, source civil war and your recommendation is pretty good theme meme aside
What are your thoughts on the thematic connection motivation of revenge in stark panther and zemo?
I mean it would be a lot to go into it's probably going to be in my video on
The film when we get there
But it's interesting you bring it up because it's something you talk about without the film beating it into your face
You're like, did you notice that what connects all these characters is a sense of wanting to achieve revenge?
While in the last jedi you're like, did you notice it? Yes, I noticed you're like, oh
Okay
How did you not notice?
Civil war is a well-made film. They don't really have to explain everything
Yeah, no, it's it's it's very I would I would argue it's very clear
But at least they didn't have a character go, you know
Revenge isn't always the best thing to do and you need to learn to overcome it. You're like, oh my god
stop
Uh between this and a-holes using the anniversary of 9-11 to take petty jabs at president trump. Why haven't we nuked earth yet? Um
I think it'll take more than a couple of bad star wars films to to push that button but uh
Um, yeah, maybe we'll get there. Uh, the bombers could have tilted upwards and released their payload
Oh, you mean like in a way that makes it fire forward
If they have artificial gravity that actually could work
As in it doesn't matter how slowly they they are pushed out. They would keep going
You know
I mean it's worth trying
But it's very slow it's gonna be very slow though like traveling from
It would be hilariously slow and it would be the most stupid fucking fight in history of anything
But it would be funny as hell to watch. It's like all of the people that are like chain
Yeah, yeah, like chain destroy bomb them. Yeah, you get one tie fighter to shoot the ball, but it just blows up all of them
They're like, oh fuck
You have to redo it. Um
Even if it has new things it has to be compatible with the previously established story and satisfactorily answer questions that were left open
They don't believe in that i'm afraid
Um, yep, then this has to be a troll. Thank you for making these great videos
I love the rant on the fallen kingdom movie greetings from a fan from the netherlands greetings
He's just liking things people hate to be contrary. I I don't know. I think he thinks this was a good video
Do you guys get the impression this was a parody?
No, I don't I think this is like a real thing
Even if it is there are people who legit thinks that it isn't so oh, of course
Ryan johnson has commented on this video by the way on twitter
It was like a thread and he said he's really glad that patrick loved the movie
So I seriously doubt that this is meant to be a joke
Ryan senpai noticed him
Uh, we need jared to take on patrick williams. There's a couple people asking for jared. I'm afraid we're not doing jared anymore
Um, but this video once is uploaded
There's an explanation of the game
Yeah, when your podcast a month once per month, correct? You want to you can you can plug that if you want
Yeah, my podcast is once per month. It's going to be next wednesday
We're going to have the act man on a lot of people have requested him to come on past. So
he was pretty
Okay with coming on with us and we will cover jared there but uh
And me and rags will be there, right?
Oh
Is that me or is that you
That would be me
You
Am I
Speaking in a vacuum here. What's going on? I I don't know if it was me or you I think it must have been you
I don't know apoben didn't say anything, but it might have been my connection, but I couldn't hear a thing you were saying
I couldn't hear either. Yeah
My the connection was really bad. I don't know just so happened the ping was just
All right robot if you want to if you want to quickly do that again, we'll
Uh, what was I just talking about act man me rags podcast. Oh, yeah
Yeah
Us act man. Jared next wednesday
There you go at 6 p.m. Eastern standard time. Is that going to be live?
Yes, I will uh people because I you know people have asked me to do both
People want it live, but they also want our icons to be lit up
So at first I was like, okay, well, I'll just like do it offline then i'll light up the icon
But people still want it live. So
I'll do it live
Edit it later and put it back up afterwards. Why don't you do what I do?
Well, I i'm still going to do like this kind of ish format where we're at the bottom and it's just showing the discord one
but
I got to edit in the the intro because otherwise we're going to be sitting here for five minutes saying nothing until
Podcast comes on so we'll be streamed live and then like within like let's say
The next day or so. It'll be uploaded with the intro and shit fair enough
Um, go watch it. I think this is an airport for that molar response video just for the milk monster comment again
I think he was joking on that point
We can give him that but
He's made such bizarre comments that we took it for 100 real
Assuming it isn't real. I don't I don't know for sure
Debate this movie with this man immediately. He won't he's not going to talk to us. Patrick wouldn't wouldn't want to talk to us
I don't think
uh
Here's a good question to ask this hippie bastard
Where does he think the resistance get the damn weapons from these one percenters? Yeah, exactly again the film contradicts itself
So I don't know why we're supposed to feel that the resistance is the answer to this horrible crime
When they're the ones that are propagating it anyway
um
Yeah, resistance bought weapons from canto bite slavers
Let me explain why tla is good by stating things I like and not explaining why they actually make it great
You just have boring tastes. I don't want to talk to you. I mean that could sum up the video progress
Wait, did they say tla?
Well, yeah, I guess they mixed tfa and tla
the last awaken
Progress towards jumping off a cliff is still progress true. I like how kylo's best
Him tricking han in order to buy time which feels like something solo
Some would do was actually supposed to show him being weak when driver played it full heel. Um
Again, I I don't understand his character at all kylos
You can see breakdowns
But the breakdowns will literally just describe the scenes to you as if it's layered and it's complicated when it's just like, huh
Why why is any of this happening?
Kylo ren is he can't make up his mind what what society wants to take on
And again, like i'm if is he going to be full on villain in episode nine?
Like is that gonna be yeah, that's gonna be fun, isn't it?
What if what if ray fights him at the end and she beats him won't that be crazy? He'd be like, oh
But then if she loses to him same thing again
Oh, like I said super curious about what they're gonna do with episode nine just for that
Someone in the chat pointed out that you know, he deleted comment on his video
So he definitely wouldn't talk to you
Yeah, a lot of people said that he deleted my comment and then I loaded up the other day and I couldn't find it
I don't consider him what's been going on lately on youtube
Like a lot of people say that comments get deleted and a lot of people like no
They don't they still they like i'm not saying anything definitive, but I mean it could have been
um
Who knows? Yeah, like I I don't know for sure if there's a way to find out for sure then, you know fair enough, but
He could easily just argue that it was picked up by the spam filter
That'd say that it just picked a random word, even though my comment is very, you know mundane, but whatever
Um, kylo ren is a poor ripoff of jack and solo. This is oh, yeah
Yeah, mathy, uh monday mac gets accused of it all the time
But his videos are still filled with negative comments, you know, so this is like I doubt he's deleted them
But if I guess he could be
At this point anyway, maybe before I could have definitely believed it
um
Luke says kylo was influenced by snoke
So kylo had a choice between luke and snoke but then luke tried to murder him
So the choice was obvious and kylo just killed everyone
That's a story i'd like to see
Instead of they didn't explain it well
Like I just don't I don't get why you wouldn't want to show it like as this kid is growing up
He's getting whispers from snoke
And how power is is, you know, just it's gonna have to be power because what else would it be?
and um
But yeah, it's it's jarring considering what we got
Uh kylo switches between face and heel more often than the big show
That's a reference to wrestling and I barely watched it
But I I knew about big show because I played some of the wrestling games on gamecube and he was in it
Uh, let me guess patrick doesn't want us to point out plot holes again either, right?
Well, that's the thing right a lot of the criticisms I have of his points
Are recognizing the holes in the story that fuck it up and then he'd be like why you why you talking about them? They don't matter
Yeah, and I guess it comes down to it's like well, couldn't you argue for literally any piece of fiction that way?
So every film is automatically a masterpiece. Like I don't
Wait, are you okay?
Sorry, sorry. Sorry. I was I was looking at somebody who photoshopped address elba
To series. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I thought yeah, didn't you post that already or was it a new one?
No, it was harry cruz
Oh
Oh, right, right man. I'm not getting notifications for though. That's weird
Uh, does patrick realize he's defending a racist like ruin that casted the only two asian people in two separate kamikaze roads
That was what you were probably talking about. Yeah. Yeah, that was what I was talking about
Oh my god, that's amazing
Okay, sorry I was looking at the I was looking at the address elbow
I am the lobster jedi
Oh, you want to show these on?
Yes, it's amazing. Are they as good as the journey monday one that was like
You know that they would have had to search for that for a while like the right image to be able to make it work
They did an actual really good job there
Oh
I'll have to check my twitter notifications soon. Uh
Vincent rebel scum reminds me of jin singh may the force be with you for no reason but fanservice. Yes
Agreed, uh waiting for the random shot at cinema sins. Yeah, that never happened. Uh,
That never happened. Oh unless you did it in here somewhere
Actually, wait. Yeah, what's at the end?
Hey guys, thank you for watching. I want to thank lc the lc bugs. I was gonna say it's like reflecting back off your mic as well
Oh, sorry, it's okay. I thought it was only me. I was like, why is it heck
Help us make these videos and
Look, I know people will be angry at this video. Even though it's just me talking about why I like a movie
I mean, you know if if you actively lie, we're not angry
If you lie about what happens in the movie
And you shit on the people that didn't like it right at the beginning
You could probably picture why people might have a problem with it
You also very vitriolically tell people to shut up about plot holes
Like why do you pretend like you're some kind of innocent creature just sharing your perspective?
He needs to put a couple more parentheses on either side of that h
Patrick didn't do it. Please don't send me a 2000 word email about why i'm wrong because I won't read it and look
This is the last time i'm going to talk about star wars are the last jedi in a video for a while good
Okay, i'll keep that word
And what is a while in your idea? Is it like two days?
It'll be interesting to see if he like does this maybe next year. He'd be like, oh, well
I guess he's gonna have to talk about episode nine, doesn't he?
He'd be like people are still angry
I can't dude imagine episode nine is like good and then all the people who loved episode eight are like patrick episode nine is terrible
The ruined star wars. It'd be so funny if that ends up happening
It's just exhausting at this point and i've said everything I want to say i'm sure it is exhausting
It just makes you yes. What the hell is he?
It's so exhausting to do the things I want to do
Okay
It's just so exhausting unfortunate for you
Uh nolan envy that's that's probably tied to he's probably annoyed that everyone appreciates nolan films
While everyone's shitting on the ryan johnson ones. I mean not all of nolan films, but a lot of people like lupa. So, you know
Calm down. You're right. Lupa was
I didn't like lupa that much, but I know a lot of people did like it. That's the point
Yeah, a lot of people did like it, but
Yeah
There's a lot of discussion about the choreography in the throne room fight
But the one thing no one can deny is the fact that they edited out a knife in order to save ray from dying
That's something that actually happened
So yeah, yeah
Like people who love that fight are they literally gonna say like that doesn't matter that's not important
Okay, fine. Nothing matters
Hope is like the sunrise. It's true. My parents would stroke out if I was him
Probably, uh, he he probably has an imdb page dedicated to poorly written comedies. I mean
I
He thinks that he's got like a way better perspective on this than than us
Because we're just random dudes who didn't go to film school
So he probably wouldn't take you seriously on that comment. Anyway, uh, please do this every frame of pause with the last jedi is amazing by major lee
um
That video is actually in our suggestion thing. We've got like a backlog, but I just got through all the super chats that i've
Ignored for like two hours. So that's actually feels like an achievement now. Um
So we we have choices here since we're up to three hours you guys
We can end and talk about, you know, maybe doing another time or we could go for another video
I have one but it's just a very short video
Well, oh you have like a suggestion sure
It's just a certain video showing what rags has been doing
Huh, well like a credit a criticism one or a or a good one
No, no, no, not a criticism of him just him receiving a prosthetic leg. It's kind of cute
Oh, you mean it's an actual doggo getting a prosthetic leg. You want to watch that on this? I don't know
We're usually very evil to things
Maybe we can find a way to be evil about this. All right. Yeah, we'll nitpick the dog video
All right
Do you do you think that would sound good on our end because it doesn't it sounds horrible
When did just right
Uh just right promoted patter grills on twitter
Uh a lot and I don't know if he might have him in his newest video considering he put him in this video
So and backstroke of the west is a twitter video everyone wants us to see backstroke of the west as well at some point
It's on it's on a to-do list. There's just so many things to do and see
Um, well in that case I don't have it. It's a twitter video watch some downward Bilbo
Um, but yeah, because I I don't know if I haven't really got any video suggestions that are like below 10 minutes or anything
And considering we just did three hours out of out of a 20 minute video. That's actually insane
It must have been hey, it's better than five and a half on two eleven minute
That is true. And you know, just just it's not supposed to be a five hour podcast every time guys
It's all it's all good. That's not supposed to be what we're waiting for. I mean
Three is pretty
Three speed now. Yeah, and if this is going to be weekly, don't worry. We shall return. Um
Yeah, I think I think i'm i'm happy enough to uh to stop there. Are you guys you guys feeling feeling good?
Yeah
Yes, in that view. Sorry that rask. Sorry that rask didn't come to
What one at a time?
Someone said we should watch avp2 and it's like oh what we can't just watch anything
Look it flagged
Um, yeah, even if we did I just I just don't want to watch avp2 ever again
Yeah, no, that was it's too freaking dark. You can't even see shit
That's the least of its problems. That's such a terrible film
So i'll just say
So again last chance to vote on the straw poll i'll just spam it again
We're gonna be deciding if figuring out a name whichever one stands the best
It's not gonna it's not too important, but it'd be nice to actually have titles instead of uh, nothing
Um this video that you're listening to right now will not be on my channel
It'll be on my second one, which is linked by here. So, you know subscribe if you want to see it and um
Our guest this week the first ever guest we had it was beautiful
Uh was was app event and his channel will be going into the uh, oh wait sell your channel. Why should they subscribe to you?
He's brown
He's i'm brown
No, I mean well my channel
Is actually no I wouldn't plug it because my videos are garbage, but if you want to check it out
It's right there right down below
Does it show up for you guys because for me chat's like frozen now
Uh, no, it's still moving up for me either one of just
Some if you either of you want to post that in there
So one of my mods can spam it instead because apparently i'm maybe i'm timed out my chat's just stopped working
No, no, no, you already posted it. Okay. Good
Because chat's not working for me now. I I hope it's still around anyway. It'll happen with your chat
But oh there you go. This it's come back. Um, and yes, uh, what may as well what's happening next on your on your channel app event
What are you covering next?
Well, um, i'm not really sure. Uh, probably just gonna do a stream just
stream a bunch of memes and
really weird videos and hot takes on twitter, but um
Other than that i'm not really sure depends entirely on the what's really hot today
But yeah, uh, also, oh I forgot I was about to do. Um
a review of
Shadow of the Tomb Raider. It's one of the games that i've been wanting to play
Because the previous two has been really not great
And I really want this game to at least do something
But not much
That's interesting
Why why go on conflict by each other interesting because I I also want to watch or watch
Uh review shadow of the tomb raider, but I I liked the last two games
Oh, really?
Oh, really?
Yes. Oh, really. I liked the second one more in terms of gameplay. I thought its story was shit in the second one
Exactly. Exactly. That's my point the story of the first two games are not great, but the gameplay was pretty good
I love I love the gameplay. It's fun wolf implied that you like the first games. All right
Fight second game though. I it's just like
It's like uh, well, we're not really gonna be able to fight about much in the second game because the second game story was legitimately shit
I thought the first game I mean the first game story was like, yeah, it's okay. It's not anything amazing
But it was like I like it
fun
No response, how about that?
ER's core video sucked fight me. Well, you're wrong
The r-score video sucked. No
No
I love the core video as fun as fuck for somebody who hasn't even got a context
I feel like I could explain to people why core is terrible without having seen it
It's uh, he even tries to like argue for it at certain points
He's like, oh this this is kind of a good idea that they could use and then they ruin it
But um, yeah, so yeah
Season one like i've watched all entirety of kora season one was okay
Like it's nothing great, but I can certainly see people why I hated it season two was fucking shit
was garbage
the last two seasons was
Uh, it was too late to be good. So I just gotta say it's a mixed bag overall
kora
Uh wolf what's happening in your channel soon?
Next, uh, I got a video on the gray coming out in the next few days
I haven't had a whole time actually speaking speaking speaking of lee amnesian films. Um, okay
Speaking of lee amnesian films
Have you seen any of the like what was that lee amnesian film where he was on it? Was it on a plane?
Was it on a plane or was it on the train?
Non-stop, yeah
Non-stop, I thought that film what do you think about that film?
It was stupid, but it was fun as fuck
I haven't seen it
I mean when I uh went up to my friend to ask if he wanted to see it. I was like, hey you want to watch him?
Jutes people on an airplane and he was like yes
So that's really all we needed to know
Wait, so let's just ask. Um, what is that shit patrick has for sale? It's like I don't even I don't know
Because there's a thing on the screen
This is a business face. I can't just hover hover hover to that hover to that picture. Yeah
That's a channel. The channel's name is very weird
saffo of lesbos less boss
I'll see the intern I guess that's his intern, but it just looks funny
It's just like i'm selling a shit with just his face like maximized on to me. No, no, no, that's actually that's actually the channel
No, I know
What a wonderful name
Um, yes, so the gray what else you got?
Uh working on an objectivity feel controversial. Oh, I wouldn't love to see that you make a lot of ends
You're like just roasting people on twitter
Yeah, i'm still working on it
Uh not finished yet
The gray video will be out first because that one I used to have the script in video footage for
I just need to actually record it and then edit it all together
Objectivity video. I don't know when that's going to be out still working on the lord of the rings video
But yeah act man on the podcast next week wednesday 6 p.m. EST
There you go
And for me
I'm gonna do a video on the predator when I finally see it and then i'm back to working on the tfa which
it's
Month month number four or five, but uh i'm actually getting there
The the editing has begun but it's being paused in favor of the predator, but it should speed up and uh
The predator is going to be released tomorrow at my time on my time
I will see it too. Apparently they have they have mcu level humor in there. That is so out of place
It's shane black. He forces humor like wherever he goes. I don't know
He's given serious content. He's just like jokes jokes for everyone jokes and you're like, oh, okay
All right
He did it to iron man 3 when he shouldn't have and he's doing it to predator which
I don't know man. I remember the days when predator wasn't a comedy personally, right? That's where I was
the first movie
I mean, I mean the first film was
The first film the first half of the film at least was pretty funny
Like when iron Schwarzenegger tries to pin the guy down throwing his knife. I know it's just like
Um, what did he what did he say? I forgot what did he say?
Stick around
Oh, yeah, it's a one-liner though
They're all over action movies and obviously it that's when it's an action movie. It turns into a horror movie
He doesn't do one-liners at that point aside from saying ugly motherfucker
Yeah, they establish it as an action movie first before he actually turns to a horror film. It's subversive
I got that time. I got no time to bleed. That's just a fantastic line
Um, but yes, so that's still coming and I think yeah, I have to do an update for that tomorrow on patreon
Those those those are free and they're more detailed
They'll be able to get you more of a like idea of how much progress has been made
Uh watch mole versus obi-wan in rebels any more unbridled rage
Yeah, i'm i'm almost judging for what yms has said and the trailers and the leaked script i'm pretty sure predator is going to be terrible
so
You can bet i'll be making a video on that because predator is one of my favorite films of all time
So we're gonna we're gonna be dealing with a shitty predator. Um
They'll probably be like a week after I see it
There are a couple more super chats where you're talking. I was gonna say, uh
They they want a quick update with what went wrong with jared. Um,
That's at the beginning of this video, but I suppose we could bookend it. Do you want to do a quick explanation again?
Yes, okay. So jared lost his mind whatever there was to lose
and deleted his channel because
He he didn't think that there was enough
32 year old men such as himself who were just like him because apparently he thought every one of his fans were
minecraft
fanboys and yeah, I don't know where he got that
No, I don't know either and he said he's a man of substance, which is true
but not in the sense that he wants it to be true and
He deleted his channel made a new one because he said he's okay with only having a few subscribers as long as they're just like him
so
There you have it. Yeah, and he'll still be covering him on my channel, but we won't be doing it here
He said he didn't want to be a man and he didn't he didn't want to be what was it?
He didn't want to be a novelty which there's no way I could describe him as anything else on this channel
He's absolutely a novelty
But I thought that it was a relationship that he could definitely benefit from
Because he was getting a lot of subscribers and there were people in there that actually cared about what he had to say
So I figured why wouldn't he want that?
But he actually said something along the lines of like he was having to make stupid videos
But like nobody asked for the one where he was in a thong dancing. I don't think anyone asked for it
Anyway, it was a bit weird
I mean, I don't think anyone's ever asked to make a video in his life. So
Yeah
Jared's just naturally kind of makes the worst content on youtube or at least
Worst from a certain point of view best if you're on this podcast and you're laughing at it
And he will still be covered on on wolf's podcast and I think it'll be amusing to see how the ac bad reacts to uh
To a jet you got you got to pick the best jared video
I don't even know what you're gonna have you got the idea what you're gonna go with or
I gotta find a new one because he deleted his whole fucking channel
You remember that purple haired bear chick like the fuck man
What the hell man
Jared's forever in our memories
For jared well, yes, that's that is it. I suppose. Um, it's it's been a lot of fun again
You can find this on my second channel if you really want it
This video because it's it's absolutely been terrible, but i've had a lot of fun. So I suppose it's time to say goodbye folks
Yeah
Just like completely ruined the toe to the ad was like
Well, I have to i've been doing I gotta stay consistent i'm more consistent than patrick willams
Can say that at least true. Um, but yes. Goodbye. Everyone. It's been fun
Yeah
