My process is that I will make it all at once, like chronologically.
I won't finish the audio until I finish.
I won't finish the videos and visuals until I finish the audio.
But yeah, I mean, I recorded all the all the audio
and now I'm putting the visuals over it.
I'll make you a bad person.
When's it going to come out?
Sorry, when's it going to come out?
I hope it's come out some early February, I hope.
And are you going to put it on the channel that you're putting like your streams on
or a different channel?
No, I'm going to make a new channel just for those kinds of videos.
That sounds like a smart thing to do.
Yeah.
Probably just going to call it just metal or something, if that's going to work.
I don't know how YouTube actually is with user names or something.
I think you can have a username that already exists.
OK, that's that's easy, then.
We are back.
Oh, life.
Ah, dee ha ha.
Yes. What?
Mola, why did you let that happen?
Well, I don't control these things.
It was automatic.
Was that supposed to be Alfred?
Yes.
That was important noise.
I had to make it. I'm sorry.
I agree.
None of us like you as a result of saying that.
Right.
We're we're we're.
Oh, my God. What the fuck?
That scary sounds.
Yeah, so hopefully the intranet continues to work if I.
Do you know what intranet is actually a word?
Yes, God.
So it's always work if I.
That's not.
Wow, racist.
Oh, so I'm just going to have a vision that.
Oh, my God, that's loud.
Hey, turn up the car.
Oh, my God.
What is with DeNiro's face?
Please stop scaring me to make me sad.
I guess Robert DeNiro looks old.
I am how this whole movie.
He's good.
The movie around him is another film.
This really reminded me of once you were never really here.
It's a really dark film.
OK, sorry, I think I'm just pausing for the music, to be honest.
No, he's his audio.
Everything's unbalanced.
Audio wise, like blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Well, I wish I could comment on this, but I haven't seen yet.
I probably watch it next week.
Mm hmm.
The way they were able to capture this grimy city and this disturbed
character's mental state.
Yeah, kind of like Joker, they really captured the city well
in terms of its elapidation and destruction and incivility,
as well as the mental state of the main character.
I agree, Ralph.
It was very effective.
I had bad rap.
Hit home way more for me.
I think Phillips took a lot from that film as well.
So let's say the whole ending is a dream.
All of these characters are just manifestations inside Arthur's head.
At the conclusion, in his deluded mind, he thinks he's a savior.
He's being held on the street.
And then they cut to him in the asylum.
This could easily just be because he killed his mother and not because
of anything else that happened.
Wow, how brilliant.
I can't believe I didn't get the movie.
Jesus Christ, so fucking good.
He could easily have been there.
So good.
It sounds like he had an argument with someone online and he made this.
Yeah, like a really long time.
It all seems to be stemming from some argument he made somewhere else.
And he's bitter.
Someone told him it was all a dream.
And he was like, fuck you, fuck you.
Something could have made you about this.
Wow. So clever.
What a boring narrative.
OK, so society beat him down.
So he hid in his refrigerator.
What happened?
Society beat him down.
So he hid in his refrigerator.
Third or fourth time he did this.
Like, oh, also, did you watch the movie?
Do you remember what he said?
Like, all I'm saying is it's not perfect.
It's like you say it a lot more than that.
There's other things are being said.
OK, this honest or a parody?
I guess it's up to us, which one it might be.
I hope it's a parody because that's honest.
But it's a bad parody, but it's still just like.
Because it's not.
Parodies should, you know, communicate with their content that they are.
Oh, shit, it's not like a fucking gunshot.
This would have killed Jade.
I was like, oh, well.
No, there was this chair doing loud noise.
I mean, someone killed rags.
You didn't see me complain about that, so you're fine.
Yeah, rags killed rags.
That's different.
Do you think he's asleep at the desk?
Probably. I think he might be.
We wake up during Superchance.
He beat him down.
So he hid in his refrigerator.
And imagine that he went on a talk show and killed the guy
and became a joker.
Hey, hey, come here.
Um.
What? It's OK.
It's OK.
Don't feed your dog cotton wool.
That's the idea.
Oh, boy, it's OK.
It's OK.
In conclusion, this is a land film for this.
We did it, guys.
We need a little bit of mediocre, superhero, overproduced, whatever.
In conclusion, this video is overproduced video essay,
but mediocre garbage, all these terrible things.
But I'm just saying it's not.
No, it's not perfect.
It's not perfect.
It's always saying, yeah, I don't hate a movie, but it's boring shit.
And Alfred.
So I don't know what to talk about.
I just had Alfred.
I wasn't sure that's Alfred.
I needed Alfred.
They did not provide Alfred.
This guy's supposed to be Alfred or what?
Rex drank a lot and passed out.
We've never let him go past three.
And I guess I forgot to stop him.
Gee, this iteration is the blending of Hollywood.
Remember when a cuckoo's nest won best picture?
Now it'll be between Joker, Ant-Man and the Wasp three.
Ah, you fucking idiot.
There's only been one Ant-Man.
Is he mad?
Is he actually mad?
I would describe that as ass mad.
Very ass mad.
This sounds like someone having a breakdown halfway through a speech.
Yes.
Hey, guys, Mooper here.
And I just saw the new Ralph the movie.
Mooper?
Oh, he's making fun of you.
Oh, God.
This is actually you.
Oh, God.
I'm cameoing in the movie.
Three.
Hey, guys, Mooper here.
And I just saw the new Ralph the movie maker on The Joker.
And I have to say, I'm very insulted by his opinion.
No, I'm not trying to be mean.
I mean, I like Ralph.
He makes a lot of good videos.
I wouldn't say I like you.
I mean, I don't I haven't seen a lot of you.
I'm sure you're a nice dude.
I just I don't know.
I don't I don't really know Ralph that well.
I don't know the three and Sonata cast.
I followed.
I hit everything in YMS a lot.
I didn't really know much about Ralph.
But we really have to look at his analysis and thoroughly break down
why he's just a terrible critic.
The moment I try to hurt his feelings, like if you zoom in on his face here,
if you zoom in, I just keep zooming in on his disgusting face.
So I'm not trying to hurt his feelings right now.
What's that good thing?
What?
I mean, it's a bad video.
You might be a good critic.
If just I don't know exactly what we did this whole time.
We just zoomed in on faith for six hours.
Guys, let's zoom in on his face.
Guys, look, though, Rags, make big fun of his face.
Quick. Make fun of his face.
Do it.
It just says it just has a picture joker on the car.
Oh, Rags, did you fall asleep at your desk?
No. I do. I I was silently observing and listening.
Oh, just how does it get?
Rags, Rags, check.
Check this bit out together.
Let's let's see.
Rags, you're going to love this.
It's it's got guys looping.
Wait, wait, let me let me rewind it a bit more.
Your Ant-Man on the Wasp.
Did you just say I'm on the Wasp?
It's just as 24 18.
Or 18 Rex is just connected from the from the no.
I'm really, you're reading, reading, rewrites, rewrites.
You see the right.
Ray, I remember we creased picture.
Now it is a wick and joker ant man on the Wasp.
Get ready for this.
Hey, guys, Mooper here.
And I just saw the new Ralph, the movie maker on the Joker and I have this.
Mooper, who's Mooper?
Well, a lot of people seem to think that it's supposed to be me.
Are you Mooper?
Mooper here.
I believe I am Mooper.
Oh, my goodness gracious.
I'm very insulted by his opinion.
No, I'm not trying to be mean.
I mean, I like Ralph.
He makes a lot of good videos, but we really have to look at his analysis
and thoroughly break down why he's just a terrible critic.
The moment I try to hurt his feelings, like if you zoom in on his face here,
if you zoom in, I just keep zooming in on his disgusting face.
I'm not trying to hurt his feelings right now.
I was going to call it a safe.
James Ward, I guess, couple people have said this is supposed to be referencing
the Jenny Nicholson one as if like I was thinking.
But like, what?
It reminds me of the Quinton parody, who was like,
but it's like, hey, Shirley Ralph isn't actually fucking stupid enough
to think that like what we've seen the video, man,
he thinks Mooper is stupid enough to do it.
I guess he is.
People say is Mooper is that supposed to be more
supposed to be out for that?
It's supposed to be awkward.
This person is actually smaller.
It's supposed to be more.
It's disgusting face.
I'm just going to call it a disgusting face.
I'm not sure I could be reading a rile for it, but it seems like
Ralph is just angry and he's not actually looking into the film
and exploring on a deeper level what the film is trying to say about society.
Sounds like a bunch of shit to me.
Angry and stupid.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think we've I don't know.
We may have said angry, but we may be saying better.
You come across as somebody who's very upset across as very bitter.
Yeah, he does turn across bitter at least bitter.
You have I wouldn't say you've missed the deep themes.
You've missed details that fucking screw with your ability.
No, no, no, no, no.
I even missed out.
He cut out.
He cut out.
He went out of his way from scenes, things that would
like invalidate things he says.
It's like, oh, shit, I wrote it down on my script.
I can't rewrite it.
I'll just hear what I'll do.
I'll just cut out these parts of the film so that I'm correct.
It was deceptive.
They're the crazy ones.
At least I got a cameo, and then I realized my reference is wrong.
And then I have to cut the joke, even though it was a good joke.
I am Uber and I insult people's faces.
That is my brand.
I mean, I got targeted.
He's clearly talking about Efap through the racist doggo in there, too.
Come on. Yeah, I hate I hate Cubans.
Oh, my God.
I hate Cuban in a movie, and it wasn't funny.
It was really sad and depressing.
Therefore, I feel like I'm an adult and I'm mature.
Look, I saw a film that won the Golden Lion,
even though it's fucking on pajamas.
Even though it's fucking on pajamas.
I'm so glad that Cora, the Jew, gave you money.
What did you say about cock?
I forgot that quote.
Oh, I've got that.
I wrote that down.
So Rags, you like fucks up the editing at one point.
But he's saying it's not funny.
I just think at one point he's saying something and then it combines
like two words or whatever.
It just sounds like he says it doesn't have a vision that cock.
I didn't see any cock in Joker.
Yeah, no, it's a it's the secret shame.
This film wasn't brave enough to show us Joker's cock.
He has a cock.
But yeah, that's that's it.
Oh, yeah. Alfred.
These credits supposed to be Alfred.
Hey, Rocky, you want to come to bed?
There's a perfectly comfortable bed for you right here, Rocky.
OK, just stand by the doorway, then.
Good night.
I'm scared.
Love.
Help.
James playing games.
No, this is this just no, that wasn't a game noise.
That was just a noise.
Help.
Um.
Oh, like.
This is good music.
Hmm, copyright strike.
Yeah.
You did it.
Well, that was it.
That was what I oh, no, no, I can't believe it.
And we are finished now. Fantastic.
So that was something else made it through rags.
What you're awake for the bit about 4chan.
Yeah, where they found that comment from 2007.
I want to know if you could name search yourself on 4chan.
So I found that you can.
And then I found this person who doesn't like either of us.
I would rather not hear it, honestly.
Wow, I'll hear it.
Oh, my God.
Moller, it's a threat about you.
Do you? Who wants to read that out?
I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I like.
OK, to clarify.
I really think he's dragged down by the retarded company he keeps rags
and JXC specific.
You know, I'm dragged down by those two.
Hey, that's an interesting take.
I haven't heard that one before.
There you go.
These are brainlets.
You think that because they can cobble together
two hours of drivel on Aquaman in a video editor.
Qualified. You ever made a video about Aquaman?
Never. Nice.
You're right.
I think that you're thinking of a little.
Oh, my God. What the fuck?
It's 746.
I guess I had a timer for 746.
All right. What do you have to remember?
I can't remember waking up again.
It's fucking kiss 22.
I have a timer to remind me of something that I can't remember what it was.
Fuck. OK.
Just because they can cobble together two hours of drivel on Aquaman
in a video editor, qualified to comment on film at large.
The most I ever granted myself on that tier of Shilly
for a consequence of bullshit was trolling my way through an essay
for a mimetics class in college by writing
a couple of pages about Bain posting.
I don't know if that is including the stuff about the actual plane crash
in Bain's as well as the porn parody.
Just to see if I can get an A.
I did. I also got a citation.
This was a joke to me.
On the other hand, people like Rags and JXC for all their guffawing
about dicks and cummies and daddies and assholes
actually take themselves seriously.
You remember, you can't take yourself seriously.
You've made a joke about dicks and cummies.
Dicks and cummies are some.
Also, I don't know where they've got the impression that I take my.
Yes, this is me taking myself.
This dream is me at my seriousness, just I see.
I knew that.
I knew that when I was just just being here.
I was like, this is the most serious Rags has ever been.
You see my shoes.
Got his little doggo booties.
I read my most serious.
Where do my shoes go?
I'm going to use the bottom of the desk like it's going to be like.
God, I'm dying to go.
Just go outside today.
So I guess that does it.
Anyone got closing thoughts on Ralph, the movie filmmaker?
He should make better videos in the future.
So it's my advice.
We use salting his face.
I heard he normally does like pretty solid videos,
but this one was very bad and terribly edited.
And what do you have to say?
If it was all a joke and you've been tricked?
Well, good on him.
Congratulations on a terrible parody.
And you can't be ashamed of yourself.
I was going to say, I just made a video that's bad on purpose.
I would just straight face be like, your video is still bad.
Oh, like what is the point of it?
What is the point of going to that effort?
Create that no effort was spent in this or some effort.
We like he dragged.
Yeah, he did specifically like things that would.
Yeah, at least releases.
Deceptively first, that's a long time away.
Someone's saying is Ralph tweeting about us right now?
Is Ralph tweeting about us?
Oh, he's typing at us.
I doubt it. I doubt it.
He's not going to want to consider himself with us.
We're pathetic compared to him.
Oh, he's he already has that kind of bit of parody in the truck.
I was Mupa. That wasn't about me.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
I confused Mupa with you.
Don't be stupid.
How the fuck did you manage to confuse those?
They're completely different.
Is Mupa supposed to be mauler?
I don't think so.
My computer just did a weird thing.
Did it.
What did you do?
I I'm asking you.
Oh, I do.
Oh, my computer went.
You did all of these computer sounds like everything slowed down for.
Oh.
Well, yeah, I guess that leads us into the good old fashioned super chess.
Would anybody like to eject?
I shall stay as long as I can.
You have to have to go ahead and go.
Thanks for having me on. Appreciate it.
Well, you can't go until you talk about the panel.
Oh, right.
That's where he lives with Hitler.
Literature devil, the channel I run is called Literature Devil.
It should be pretty easy.
And I basically do this as talk about
part of the building blocks of writing, looking into creative writing,
going over movies, pop culture, all those sorts of things
so that everyone can kind of see where things are going and see
for themselves and modern media how things are still true,
even after hundreds or thousands of years sometimes.
Yeah, I mean, I have posted away in both the chat
and it's in the description.
I mean, I think you've been a wonderful addition to today's stream.
Despite all of the tisms that we've had to deal with,
plenty of good responses, good discussion.
And yeah, thanks for coming on, sir. It's been fun.
A lot of fun. Very good discussion. Very, very fun.
For all the things they say about Satan, he wasn't that bad.
He wasn't that bad at all.
He wasn't that bad at all.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I think he's literally the devil.
I think he's literally the devil.
Oh, my God.
Thank God.
The story level, literally, Satan.
I did the time I proved it.
Isn't that like a food, Satan?
I think so. That's a person who lives in hell.
Stop fucking around.
Jesus, it's supposed to be Satan.
I think so, Satan.
Thanks for having me. Appreciate it.
And you all have a good day.
Have a good night. Goodbye, Satan.
Come back any time. Bye, Satan.
Why, Satan? Don't get hit by a bus.
Oh, that is very specific.
Eight. Allos, Allos Miguel said,
did you guys get credit to Jay Longbone?
Because she made these points already.
I'm actually looking forward to seeing her coverage.
I wasn't going to watch it until we did.
I didn't want to spoil the video.
I don't know if she if she's made similar points,
it wouldn't surprise me because he's wrong in very definitive ways.
So it's very easy to be like, no, because this.
Also, he's not tweeting about us.
He hasn't tweeted for like two weeks.
Doesn't surprise me.
I don't I don't think he's going to care that much.
Well, I mean, he put that thing in his video, but I don't know.
It seems to really care.
He seems to be really like he had several
like bitter snipes at the idea that people would respond to him.
He was very upset that the video like this movie respond to it.
He seems to really care that people are going to respond to him.
It's just like your opinion, bro.
He disabled the replay thing.
And then he was like, Oh, if you like this movie, 14 year old.
You're 16 year old.
So Rags. Yes.
The stream got like cut into two again for no reason.
Why I had to reload it because.
That I have chat up on the right and there wasn't
you weren't saying anything, and I assumed that something had gone wrong,
not just like people had fucked off, you know.
Yeah. So it's going to be in two pieces, which means
well, we were at 22 minutes on this stream, so we only got a time cap.
Oh, boy, we can go on forever and ever.
Forever and ever.
We'll never leave. Oh, my God.
Stream in the shower.
We'll stream while we eat.
We'll stream while we poo stream the stream and always sleep.
Stream forever.
Oh, that was something that I was.
Yeah, we can do that.
We have plenty of time to do it now.
So this this was a selection of comments I found interesting
and obviously as a counter to the idea that
like this would this didn't go over well as a
a parody, I guess.
Would you like to would you like to read some of these, Mr.
Riggeroo? All righty.
So the Golden Caulk.
And I said, I can tell Ralph let the haters get to him.
This video was over the top vitriolic
to which ocean man responded.
And I mean, he searched a three year old
4chan thread to find a negative comment about himself.
So, yeah.
I just can't imagine myself like going out of 4chan period, but
going through three year old 4chan threads to find people talking about me.
Those people are three years older now.
That could be like a 12 year old who made that comment.
And they're 15 now.
They've grown up.
Or they could have reverse aged.
Because they got younger.
And now people seem to like us on 4chan.
Like that was just one comment I showed that they don't like either of us
for some reason.
Fucking care. They're OK with more.
Why? I don't like shed.
Oh, my goodness.
There's just no possible way to know who they like and who they don't like.
Oh, so next one says, I got to say, Ralph sounds a little whiny and condescending
in this review. Not a good look, my guy.
There's no light heartedness or quick quips in this review.
It feels really angry and aloof.
Quick quips.
Don't put violins in movies.
Ralph doesn't like violins, even if it fits the tone or whatever.
Ralph just really doesn't like violins. Don't do it.
It just can't process if he was like molested by a viola when he was child.
And so just all.
No, shut up, shut up.
I'm not done yet.
And so it's like now all members of the string family.
He just can't think it's like you're close enough.
So I'm sorry, violins.
Sorry, cellos.
You can't show low.
Hello. Goodbye.
He doesn't like dulcimers.
What the fuck is that?
You know, sounds like a made up word.
No, well, all words are made up.
So a dulcimer is a it's like a table harp.
I understand it so much better now.
No, like really, like look at it.
It's like a little is it like a Japanese or Korean instrument?
The one there goes boing, boing, boing.
Yeah, that one.
Boing.
Is that a dulcimer?
No, sort of little metal.
Stop yelling from the toilet.
You can't stop me.
You know, it's like a thing where you can have them.
Like they're they're like guitar, they're like sideways guitars
and you lay them down and you kind of look at them.
Yeah, that's like the Korean thing, right?
Wow. Wow.
Some some Asian place.
Oh, wow.
But they could also be like a stand.
They could be like on a stand like almost like a like a book stand,
like a desk or something.
And they have the strings over them.
I agree with you.
Was that metal?
I think so. Of course.
I agree with you.
Thank you.
The next son says I went to film school.
OK, the YouTube review, which I think is actually pretty on point as well.
That's this video in a nutshell.
Then you got this is such a horribly condescending review.
Feels like Ralph's actually trying to piss off his fan base.
I don't see the point in saying that this film isn't to the standard
of specific current art house, less mainstream films,
apart from just trying to sound like some elitist pretentious film snob.
One of them, one of the many things I appreciate about this film
is the fact that it showed the average moviegoer a style of film
that may not have experienced before
if they haven't decided to watch classic Scorsese films or whatever.
And as it was presented in a more accessible way than some of the films,
I was able to have proper discussions about the themes and ideas presented
in Joker with people that usually don't look too deeply in the film.
Into the film, sorry.
I'm a huge fan of Taxi Driver and all the Scorsese films,
and I managed to enjoy the fact that Joker took inspiration from that
as well as other Scorsese films, and it added to my overall enjoyment of the film.
I don't think the copying in your bed. I know.
I don't think that DeNira's death was really meant to be that surprising.
And my reading of the film was that the flashback showing Zazie Beets
to not exist to a more of a representation of his
is realizing rather than showing the audience.
And even if I'm wrong with the intention of that scene,
I don't see the problem of making the film more accessible.
I also felt the inclusion of Bruce Wayne's storyline added a nice parallel
to Arthur's storyline and was done very tastefully as well
as providing a very different presentation of the
wanes to any of the Batman related work we've seen on the big screen.
However, my general distaste for this review
isn't so much that I disagree with it.
More so the fact that it seems to be badly thought out
and overall very toxic and petty. Normally a fan.
That's got like 400 upvotes.
This is where I mean, like this did not go over well.
What if the Joker movie was like like he kind of had the intention of
this is how we introduce artsy kind of movies to like just normal audiences
and stuff, and that was the intention.
And here's Ralph coming and just fucking shit.
Like this is stupid for dumb people.
It is stupid for dumb people.
You liked it. You're dumb, moron.
I'm dumb. I liked it.
Therefore, I am dumb.
If I like something dumb, that means you're dumb.
Rogald Dorn said, wow, I'm here really early.
And so I said, no, the stream dies.
You missed 10 hours.
Oh, did we start 10 hours ago?
No, I was just exaggerating.
We started when we started like eight.
So nine, ten, eleven.
Rex, you're OK. Six hours ago.
OK, I'm all right. I'm fine.
4chan doesn't like me, though.
So I must be doing something right.
I understand what 4chan's values are.
Oh, there he goes.
Well, like a parenthesis merchant.
Prince, I don't understand.
That didn't help.
And he's not going to help you anymore, apparently.
He's leaving you.
Abandoning you.
What is what are 4chan's values?
So it's like anti-Tumbler.
4chan's values, it's difficult to pinpoint,
to put it to put a pen on the point of the pen.
I want to talk about the allegorical metaphors in Parasite.
And then of course, the fucking standard response,
the do us all a favor and talk about the allegorical metaphors in Parasite
instead of childishly attacking all the people who criticize
your previous take on Joker.
Seriously, Ralph, I normally like your content,
but attacking the people who like this movie and lumping them in
with an idiot, 14 year olds who like BVS
isn't going to do anything to help this harassment claim
you get whenever you talk about DC films.
I mean, they're probably right, you know?
Doing that probably wasn't the best choice if you're going to be like,
Oh, so annoying when people harass me, those kids.
Oh.
Hey, kids.
Also, smell and they're loud.
I think we we missed this one because I don't remember talking about it,
but he said random killing starting this incoherent sequence of events.
Then they've got like a bunch of citations for when serious events
began from from singular killings.
Or more or whatever, but, you know, like World War One.
This was one of the weakest attempts at critiquing Joker,
except the issues Joker has and credited as exceptional.
However, the issues you brought up make no sense.
We're ill prepared.
I don't understand who came up with society is bad at the end of this film
and throughout, we saw a man struggling with extreme mental illness
and childhood trauma.
In specific, Joker had narcissistic personality disorder,
which made him delusional and paranoid to the point of hallucinations
and clouded thoughts.
Joker has good things in his life.
However, his mental issues negated them.
Once he stopped being medicated and without therapy,
he started to see a world darker than it is.
The film showed problems within modern society, but more so,
it focused on mental illness, parental roles, economic wealth,
distribution and the idea of happiness.
This film was sad and painted a very real reality for people who live
with untreated mental disorders.
Everything really does feel like a dark cloud.
Joker just snapped, unlike most of us.
Joker, like many, hasn't gotten a sense of community and thus no identity,
no clear purpose for his life.
He is suicidal, lonely and depressed.
I cannot believe you don't see the comparisons
to how this movie reflects modern society, mental illness,
loss of community, economic disparities, et cetera.
What a sad review. Re-evaluating.
Damn. Yeah, it's like it's the whole.
How did he think this was going to go down like fuck?
Oh, how come they don't make watermelon jelly?
I don't know.
We need the answer to that.
Just say. Somebody give us the goddamn answers.
Fuck. Did you make watermelon jelly?
I just found it.
I mean, like, I'm sure it's like out there, but you'd think that is prominent.
Like, whatever.
It's just like grapes.
OK, he's fucking great.
OK, strawberries.
OK, then they have the weird purpley ready mixed berry ones.
But it's never like you never like I guess a watermelon jelly.
It's never recipes. Watermelon.
You know, I'm sure it exists with watermelons.
You know, I don't like I'm sure that they do.
I mean, like, just why don't they just like normally do it?
How come it's like a specialty?
Why do we settle for strawberry and grape?
And we're like, oh, no.
It's an injustice, I guess.
What else can we say?
Anyway, I'm probably going to start reading them super chats now.
So do it here.
Here we go.
I I volunteer myself to be a mod that Pima bans anything
even discreetly mentioning anime in this chat.
Ifap is for top tier media discussion, not gay anime trash.
Do that's a hard truth right there.
Mm hmm. Oh, God, not this video.
Time to start drinking.
It wasn't that bad, right, guys?
You know, I thought it was pretty good.
Yeah. OK, I'm not saying it.
Well, I'm not saying all I'm saying is that wasn't perfect.
Yeah, it wasn't perfect. OK, fine.
I want to meet Mupa, by the way.
He sounds like a dick.
I don't money for Mupa.
It didn't seem to have any vision, the cock.
This one just says Jeb three and knuckles.
I mean, I can't make Sonic Jeb.
That's racist, probably.
Hi, Rags. Hello. Oh, no.
Thank you for supporting the channel.
If Jar Jar started in your mouth,
would you say yummy, yummy in my tummy or Misa queasy from that thick brown cheesy?
If I was in those moments
to speak as this foul creature with a thing in my mouth.
I think I'd go with the second one.
Rags.
Because cheesy reminds me of.
Yeah, I love from Rags.
Yes, Jay, would you rather fuck Jar Jar in the ass or have Jar Jar fuck you in the ass?
I don't think it's Jar Jar's dick.
It's it's like just it's just an average dick size.
Average dick.
Average dick, um.
Uh.
Does it what kind of dick?
What kind of dick is it?
Like, what is the Gungan cock look like?
Hey, let's find some rule.
If you think of like a 34 has your answer.
Because if it's just like a human one.
Think of like a kitchen knife.
What?
He's like waiting for the rest.
And then what?
Oh, I.
I don't know, I guess.
I guess I let him fuck me.
Why? Yeah, why?
Because I just think that fucking him would be really grosser.
Like, OK, so.
I don't know, I feel like it would it would require more affirmative like action on my part.
Yes, this is what his dick looks like.
Oh, no, no.
Let's take a look.
Oh, my God.
I'm not putting that on the screen.
That is terrible.
Oh, my goodness gracious.
So it's just like a normal one.
Fucking I don't know.
How come he doesn't like die whenever he gets a wreck?
If I sense that the relevant parts, can you put it on stream?
The relevant parts.
How do you think about the relevant parts?
It's a 90 percent of the pic to it.
Are you going to attempt to make a censored version of this?
I don't even bother.
That's terrible. He's joking.
That means they have to save it.
He's a dreamy boy, though. Oh, no.
Well, that answers that, I suppose.
Oi, Morley, ranking Iron Man three of a civil war.
Why lies in slander?
Just clarifying lies in slander.
Save me from my suicidal thoughts, Mora.
Hopefully we did with this video.
If you die, then Ralph wins.
Would you rather never, ever use or utilize any form of electronic device
ever again or have additional and irreonable taste buds in your anus?
Oh, man. You know what?
I'm going to go with having taste buds in my anus.
We get some some surgery done slash keep your ass clean.
You'll be fine. Yeah.
Oh, you don't. OK, let's back up.
So I don't think we can get asshole surgery.
Well, why not? Keep us so clean.
Yeah, besides remove your ass around it.
But here, why don't you just keep it clean and shove a breathman up there?
You're not looking at you're looking at the you're just looking at the negatives.
OK, so I can.
It would be nice to while I'm getting fucked in the ass
to be able to taste the cock, I guess.
I mean, that's a positive, I suppose.
Well, can you put that on stream?
Oh, my goodness.
I mean, I guess like this.
I can't.
And while you're pooping, you can hold your nose.
What am I doing with my life?
Yes. Oh, my God.
So many chats said it right after I said to hold your nose to I know I thank you.
I knew there was a smart man in the chat. You do.
No, it's on the street.
We're a very we take ourselves seriously for chances.
So.
This one says, he fapped greater than sardonic cast.
That's yes, that is correct.
We are the best podcast that ever cast.
That's correct.
And judge us erect.
Oh, my goodness.
They're alive now.
They're happy.
George is my property.
You guys, what are your opinions on special editions of movies and games?
Do you feel that they more often enhance or worsen the product?
I guess it depends what you mean by special edition.
Like public has a great video on this.
Like you could have.
I mean, depends what kind of special edition.
I was going to say the the problem is like each one of these videos about like.
Oh, the additions will change the thing,
but like it can go in all different directions.
Exactly. Yeah, there's no I don't think there's a rule for it.
Just it was case to case.
Like, yeah, one like like a negative aspect could be like, hey,
this is a special collector's edition.
And if you preorder, if you give us money before we give you a fucking product,
then we'll give you a shiny pair of trousers
for the game for your first three levels.
Yeah. Oh, my God.
The hot dog, the dog, the hot dog, the trousers.
That's where it's at.
Hot dog glare.
Oh, yeah. Oh, there was some themes actually that I enjoyed.
Hot dog glare.
Oh, that was sent by Palpamim.
Palpamim.
So, yes, the answer, I suppose, is that you'd have a preference
for them to be a good thing, but they could be an anything and they mostly are.
I don't even know what you'd say about them.
What is the current state of special editions mostly?
Well, there aren't that many of them, are there?
I don't know.
Your opinion is only being like seven ever.
There's not enough to be able to say anything about it.
I'm so sorry.
Someone do science.
More science now, do it.
When when more makes his blah, la, la noise, my peeing tingles.
Neat. Mm hmm.
Oh, my goodness.
The breaks we did.
I'm sorry.
I was. OK. No, I was.
It's fine. I was I was thinking about blah, la, la.
Blah, la, la.
Blah, la, la.
And then you just hear you just hear the bottom of your desk.
And it's like, oh, fuck.
There it is again.
Oh, I fucking big Jar Jar cock.
Because he said, blah, blah, blah.
That's how the Gungans make.
They that's their foreplay is they go blah, la, la.
Blah, la, la.
What's happening right now?
I said, Mola, that was directors cuts.
It wasn't just directors cuts.
It was like all kinds of different cuts, multiple cuts from singular people
or directors or producers or whatever else.
It's just like that's why it's probably better.
Just call them special editions at that point.
For my films, I'm cut like my Jar Jar cocks. Mm hmm.
Toss a coin to your long man Shabbat Shalom rags.
Ah, Shabbat Shalom, mine if you're.
I've got to get hay for pets today, but I was wondering,
is it too late to make a Joker review?
Life has just been hectic and it's super delayed.
Never too late, my man.
I'm planning on bringing mine out like eventually.
So, you know, I'll be doing it.
You can do it, too, with Ken.
C's eFap notification.
Oh, what's this? Slams rhino milk.
What did you bring me?
I brought you a chair. What you bring me?
What you bring me?
Oh, you brought your cock.
You know.
Well, are you a Darkest Dungeon fan?
Can you say back to the pit as menacing as possible?
What's what is the voice?
The guy like that?
Let me let me let me pull him up a second.
Now they talk. Bring me, me, me, me over life and death.
Did you show the chief among my early pursuits?
He did chief among my early pursuits.
Like pretty epic.
Back to the pit.
I want someone to make a meme that's like.
OK.
So I realized that I hadn't like registered
if anyone else was talking when I started.
I was like, that's a bad thing to do.
So what was your meme?
I want someone to make a meme that's like people.
If that is a hateful leftist right wing podcast about insulting people
and then if that and then it's just this meme, the hot doggler.
More of the new Batwoman episode is so horrible.
They turn the SJW shit up to 11.
Oh, well, we'll be finding out about that soon.
Because all the episodes we've seen, they're just like normal bad.
They're just fucking terrible.
And it's almost like the political stuff is just like, oh, and by the way,
our politics are garbage.
Just then, you know, just remind you.
Uh, also check out the movie if you guys want.
Just a suggestion.
Oh, sure.
Are we in a movie?
Are we in a movie?
Joker is a movie about clowns made for children.
True.
What kind of space clowns?
Sissy clowns.
Spores, clones, come clowns.
If app criticizes someone's work, me starts playing Jager from Blaz Blue.
I don't know what that is.
You know, I think it's a fighting game.
I think it's.
Blaz Blue.
I horseman death of PC gaming.
Where does the schmooze schlingle dingle language come from?
Excuse me, what what came from where?
I think I think those were Welsh words.
If you're trying to communicate with you, Mahler,
using the words of your own people.
Speaking like a dangus, dingle, dorm, glorm.
I think I can't remember how that started, but that was
speaking like a dangus, dingle, dingle, glorm.
Me and Mel been doing that for many years now.
And I've been glorying.
Reem pulled ample indeed.
That's my language.
Yeah, I can't I can't remember where that came from.
It's good that it exists.
Yes, that's the kind of thing that could evolve naturally.
Yes.
Couple of hack frauds discussing a work that took 12 years to make
or however long Ralph has been making videos.
Coincidence.
Also, Hi Rex.
Hello.
Joker bad because it reminds me of a good movie.
It makes sense.
I felt that way about the second Lord of the Rings film.
I was like, you're reminding me of the other Lord of the Rings film.
Boo.
This reminds me of the Fellowship of the Ring.
Lord of the Rings is the Lord of the Rings trilogy is just a shallow copy
of the Hobbit trilogy.
Oh, my God.
That's outrageous.
Just like that.
And I'm going to tell all of the people kind of shit, which ones.
Have you listened to Oakley Dokley yet?
Actually, yes, I checked it out.
That's hilarious.
Screamo Bands, the space to have to Ned Landers.
All right.
I forgot about that.
Oakley, Oakley, Oakley.
Good to see the literature.
I listen to you.
That's true.
Boo.
Give back Batwoman's soul.
Only literature devil has Batwoman's soul.
Oh, God, Satan.
Well, if she died, she'd probably go to hell.
Yeah.
Have you considered a fapping cosmonauts recent video on the prequels?
It's beyond awful.
And hey, it gives you guys an excuse to rewatch them.
Yes, actually.
We're going to do all three of his Star Wars videos eventually, though.
He's not going to take to that very well.
He really doesn't like me.
But I mean, it's just it's just a really good video to talk about the prequels
with because it's really badly made.
So like, you know.
Jay, what do you think of Cosmonaut as a whole as a reviewer?
You think he's pretty good, right?
I would say that I do think of Cosmonaut as a whole.
Oh, my God, Jayra.
Oh, my goodness.
Don't I get a hole?
There's a hole.
Here's some of my first paycheck.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello. Thank you for part of your first paycheck.
Thank you very much, sir.
That's nice thing for you to do.
I love to see Dragon demands on Efap.
He's fun and extremely knowledgeable.
Lots about lots of geek culture and his rants on D&D really cathartic.
Oh, it's possibly.
Gotta love how out of touch Ralph is in this video, having no understanding
of the film, its fans slash audience, the criticism or jokes at him.
It's sad.
He didn't seem happy for sure.
He seems bitter and upset and angry.
The problem is not disagreeing with your audience.
The problem is how you fucking put it over.
And if you say in the first five minutes, you're all children.
They're just complaining about the movie.
It's like, yeah, just you lost already.
You're fucking lost already.
It's nothing you can say about this better tasting.
Yeah, you can you can either go ahead and present your arguments
to 14 year old and see what the people say about it.
Or you can just fucking sell the whole fucking fan base
and just fucking end yourself with this.
I don't know. Oh, my God, it's Saturday.
It's Saturday.
It's already Sunday for me.
We were talking about Rebecca Black.
Was that live?
I don't think so.
Seven a.m.
Like if people found out that we were funded by Rebecca Black's
and the syrup hole.
All right, what happens to all the other colors of Rebecca?
And isn't isn't what happens when you put them all together?
They make like a brownie color and then she just like puts them.
I like it.
May he said make a brownie.
Is there something wrong with that, sir?
No, it's funny.
The best version of the Joker is from Batman Beyond Return of the Joker.
It made the Joker truly scary to the point where Mark Hamill was unsettled.
Oh, oh, and and there's an isn't there like a Batman
where he gets transported back to samurai time?
Oh, Batman Samurai or whatever it was that was called.
I swear it's called something like that.
Batman Cole on Samurai, I think it is.
Batman, Batman, Cole on Mm hmm.
It's called the code that it's called Batman Samurai.
Batman Ninja.
I would much rather watch Batman Cole on Samurai.
Audience score is 39 percent.
Oh, my God.
That's not very good.
Hello, gentlemen, the Batman Ninja.
Hello. Hello.
Does anyone have a copy of Wolf's podcast with the Bilbo meme started?
I know he said he didn't want them re-uploaded, but I just want to see the clip
of the original Bilbo meme if anyone has it new that has been lost to time.
No copies for anywhere.
But we did cover it in one of the faps at one point.
I remember which one it is specifically, but it's in there
unless someone has it downloaded somewhere.
It could be like I don't I don't think anyone could call it
because it got deleted like really quick.
Um, Annie, Misa trying to sneak around,
but the clapper Misa ass cheeks keep a legend.
Because I'm impatient, what's wrong with the Mandalorian?
The writing is terrible.
Writing is really bad.
Sorry, it's so hard for me to concentrate right now.
OK, so in a nutshell.
And please don't hold me to this.
It's really hard concentrate.
So the Mandalorian is a show that's written really bad.
Characters are extremely inconsistent.
And a lot of times they do extremely stupid things
that are very out of character just so things can happen.
And we decide arbitrarily that they just forget
like extremely important things about their own lives.
And they're they just in all sorts of baptisms like that, right?
Like there's just no it's like the writing is just nonsense.
Things just happen so they can happen.
Characters decide when they need to be competent
for the sake of when something has to like happen
or for drama sake or stuff along those lines.
Like, like, like they're one of the episodes happens
because because Mandalorian forgets he has a spaceship.
Really? Yes.
Episode four happens because they write it
so that Mandalorian forgets he has his own spaceship.
Wow.
And that's on top of forgetting that Forbes exists.
Yes. It's like they just have him with the whole ship.
They just have like him randomly forgetting
extremely important parts of like imagine you're a plumber, right?
And your TV, you're like a plumber and you just forget how to flush a toilet.
And so they have a whole episode about how you have to track down
the secret knowledge of the toilet flush and you go on a big adventure.
Yeah. But then you're like, oh, wait, the only reason this episode's happening
is because we just wrote it to where this plumber
who's been a plumber his whole life forgot how to flush the toilet.
Um, it rags.
You're working on a video, right?
Someone said, sorry, I just got to disagree with you.
It was bad.
Loved to know what about that.
You disagree with because that's what the writing of the show is.
They forget fobs exist, forgets the spaceship.
That's just one. This is an example from an episode.
This is like canon that they forget.
Or does the writing get these things?
Well, the writing is just they just don't.
He just doesn't mention it when it would solve the issue.
And there wouldn't be a problem if he just was like, oh, I got a spaceship.
Yeah, for anybody who's not clear, he they ask, like,
what could possibly take out an ATSD and they have like his enormous cannons
on a ship, but they just don't.
Oh, right. I remember.
If for me it was like just paid for the average, like it started really strong.
It's like, oh, where are they going with this?
And I was like, well, not a week, but one of the week, one of the week.
And then I stopped and I just stopped watching because I couldn't talk anymore.
Matthew said, to be fair, it spends most of the time in the woods.
So they still need to pay it out.
It's like the issue Rags is taking was the statement.
It's like, we have no way to take it out.
It's like you do.
Yeah. And then they just do the thing where they learn out and then he blows it up.
And, yeah, we're going to do an episode on Mandalorian as well.
Huh? We'll do an episode on Mandalorian on our list.
We'll do a Mandalorian episode.
OK, you know, it'll be on the way. It's OK.
I know a lot of people love it.
We'll we'll have to be thorough.
We'll have to go through it all piece by piece.
Yes. What happened to Jared?
Is he dead? Is and if he is, have you guys found a replacement?
Um, if if you mean for Beams, it's like we've got a plethora of memes.
But but I don't know what's going on with Jared these days.
I checked in.
Axie Driver spawned more violence than Joker.
John Hinkley, Reagan, assassinated to fail and co-writer to I Desire by Devo.
So did Frozen 2.
Yeah, that's true. Frozen 2 beat out Joker.
Any movie that inspired violence inspired more violence than Joker.
Hello, all my Ewoks, also high regs.
Hello, sir.
Morritt, you know of a YouTuber by the name Just Some Guy?
He's a lot like you, except he covers comics instead of movies.
I don't know this man.
Nope. Would you rather Disney's next Star Wars trilogy be about the downfall
of Babu Frick, or should they make a frick Star Wars story about his past?
They made it about the downfall of Babu Frick.
Then they'd fuck it up, and it would actually be the rise of Babu Frick.
Like the rise of Skywalker, the rise of Frick.
Star Wars episode 10, Rise of Frick.
We need to go to the Frick planet.
The all of the Fricks running around.
Lord of the Fricks. Yes.
Happy Chinese New Year, you massive.
Since 2020 is the year of the rat,
do you think it means that this will be the year of good rat, also high regs?
Hello, I hope that it's going to be the year about the good rat,
because I don't want a bad rat year.
That's a quote.
Good rat forever, folks.
That's that's what I always say.
That's my catchphrase.
More or less, sorry, your critics are so fucking stupid.
Don't listen to them.
I'd be surprised if any of them had a functioning brain stem at work now.
Kick J, high regs, et cetera.
Hello.
I don't have to apologize for a terrible control of your basic bodily functions,
like your breathing and stuff, I think.
Yeah, but you could do that.
You can have someone do CPR on you forever.
Oh, did you hear about that?
There was I was reading it.
So there's this is apparently an octopus that can sting you in such a way
that it makes you numb all over your body for 15 hours.
And then you recover and there's no permanent side effects.
That sounds pretty cool.
But obviously, if you don't have any assistance during those 15 hours,
you die because like everything goes numb.
Right.
Like you can't breathe without assistance.
And apparently somebody was stung by an octopus,
like that octopus out in in the water or whatever.
I didn't know octopuses could sting you.
Yeah, I'm thinking.
Maybe I'm retarded.
It doesn't really matter what it did.
It's just the thing that did it.
Oh, my God, this octopus is stinging you.
It latched on with its talons.
OK, it has eight posts.
It's beak.
If octopuses were warm, they'd probably give insanely good blow jobs.
So anyway, shall there be handshops they figured out?
This this guy was attacked by this thing.
And apparently the locals that were there at the time
knew what was going to happen.
And so they just had to provide CPR, the entire boat ride back to a hospital.
And so they saved his life.
But when you're fully numb, you obviously can't close your eyes
because they're open.
Oh, so he went blind?
Yeah, the sod burnt his eyes out.
Oh, no, that sucks.
And he went blind.
I was like, oh, my God, that's the guy.
If they just put a wet flannel on your eyes.
Oh, no, it is.
I would be so fucking bitter about that for my whole life.
If something closed my fucking eyes, I'd be able to see.
And the fact that you're numb, you can't tell them.
You just have to be like, well, there it goes.
Yeah. Have you ever like sat on your hand long enough
till it goes to sleep and then jerked off with it? No.
Like I've tried.
It's not like a stop.
Oh, but you said you started off and said, no,
but then you're like instantly did 180 is like, you have you done it?
No, like I've attempted it.
It's not good.
So I stopped like I stopped at the point where I'm sitting on my hand
because I'm like, this is oh, that you can't say you did it
if you didn't get to the jury.
That's why I said I didn't do it.
Then you said you did.
You have civil war.
I said I attempted it.
That's fucking shit.
Oh, no. Monday is my birth mass.
All I request is the unquestioned
assassination of all women and Jews.
Oh, my goodness. Oh, no.
In the middle of that, he's got in brackets high rags. Hello.
I think we're going to provide that.
You said I don't ask for much.
Just give me this.
We'll have to look into our files and our our files of all of our files
to see if that's possible.
I've checked the files.
I future me also high rags.
Hello, past you.
Have you led scene 1917?
What did you think?
That was great. I really liked it.
There we go.
There's a review on it soon.
You should go see it.
You should go see Jay's review.
Yeah. All right. Yeah, fine.
I guess rags just promote the shit of your challenge.
Was the one shot thing just a gimmick?
Or do you think it contributed to the film?
It really contributed to the film.
It really did contribute. Yeah.
It contradicted dated to the film.
Yes, it's really helped me to think that I was there.
Yeah. I'm taking this journey with them.
And you. Yeah.
Apparently, so someone in chat said it's from the blue ringed octopus.
They make heterodox toxin, tetrodotoxin.
And if the poison is transferred by a bite.
All right. Well, I suppose there's a fucking dick.
Listen to the CinemaSins podcast take on TROS.
It's the definition of Tism.
Destroy them.
Oh, that sounds like fun, actually.
That sounds like a good that sounds like good material.
But I mean, what do you want to check?
You guys don't do that. I will.
I mean, you go ahead.
I'll check it out with you if you want,
that you could do whatever you want with it.
Sounds like fun.
Where do they do that?
Introducing sin cast, is that it? Yeah.
It's the cast. Oh, my God.
It's not what Satan is.
Well, we just well, Satan was just here.
Oh, he's a Yotel channel.
Was it actually on YouTube?
One way behind the scenes.
Mini Pod Rise of Skywalker.
I guess that's it.
Him out there, who acts a car.
Why did you say that like normal?
Why would you say that?
I know I just I was because I you speak normally a lot
and I'm wondering why you always do that.
Why don't lies and slander lies and slander.
I've told you why I don't like that phrase.
I've told you why I like it.
Well, then we're at an impasse.
I passed the impasse.
I wonder if anyone watching like right now knows what.
I guess they probably wouldn't because you can't.
Ah, that's true.
Wait, but then how did you reply to the thing I said?
Because I heard half of it.
But I've seen the raffles video.
I think that's supposed to be Ralph.
And it made me consider committing a jebicide.
Oh, my God.
Keep up the law out of this.
He's a fucking saint.
Keep up the long hail the dawn.
When TFA part three.
Kick J.
Hi, Rags.
Yesterday. Hello.
August 2020.
Damn, one K new subs a day by the fruits.
You shall know.
Also.
Send Lisa in here.
I don't know what that is.
Sounds like.
Dutch. No, it's not Dutch.
Oh, it was sound.
I didn't say it was Dutch.
I said it sounded like Dutch.
No, it doesn't sound like that.
Oh, apparently it means long man's hail.
Well, you don't speak Welsh.
What kind of a Welsh you don't speak Scottish.
You don't know that.
Oh, I checked the Scottish files.
You're not listed if I speak perfect Gaelic.
No, not Gaelic Scottish.
What is this difference between what is Scottish then?
You don't know what I see.
You don't even know what it is.
So of course you don't speak it.
No, I'm asking.
I'm asking what you think it is.
See, you don't know exactly what it is.
It's it's when you pronounce everything
like a Scottish. I know exactly what.
Oh, I can do that.
I just choose Nazi.
Does anyone believe him?
I'm sorry, what was the question?
Statistically, at least someone believes me.
All right, fine. One person believes you.
Yes, in August, what the fuck you actual hack?
Rags said it would be August.
What am I going to do? Betray rags?
Yeah, you cannot.
I cannot be betrayed.
I cannot be defeated.
It says, hi, Wags.
Who's a good boy? Who's a good boy?
I am. I'm a good boy.
That's me.
And I guess it ends with Mr.
Metal and Mr. Literature.
I guess it's like a hello of sorts.
Hello. Hello.
I re-watch Joker two days ago.
What are the odds?
I know. Unlikely.
Seven. I don't even know how I can get it.
Yards are seven.
Seven odds.
What is the chance of this? Seven.
Seven.
Hello, Massives.
Just letting you know that the 80s Star Wars droids cartoon,
which can be found here on YouTube,
has a character named Kaibo Ren.
Kaibo Ren. Really?
That's interesting.
Is it, though?
Yeah, I think it's interesting. Yeah, kind of.
Okay. Fine.
I don't think he understands why that's interesting.
I think he's just lost.
Mel, you lost.
Where am I? Knew it.
Help2915 at LD.
Good to see you here, finally.
Oh, for Literature Devil, of course.
Been subbed to you well before I subbed to Wolf.
Hashtag, who the fuck is smarter?
Hashtag, what rags.
I found that too.
Sounds like a question.
Like, what rags?
Hashtag, what rags?
Which rags?
Rags, do you remember what you said seven hours ago?
Hello?
I don't say that a lot.
I just figured it would be like...
I just figured it would be like something I'd do.
I highly recommend Uncut Gems.
It's my favorite film of 2019,
followed by The Irishman and Joker.
Would love to know your thoughts if you've seen it.
That's actually next on our list.
Me and Rags are going to watch that.
Which next of all? Uncut Gems.
I've heard that it's a good movie.
I've been considering watching it as well.
And this guy says, my taxi driver,
his is all time favorite movie.
Good.
I'm sorry.
At Rags, Mauler is not a paladin.
He's a longbowman.
If you disagree, I challenge you to butt naked
Greco-Roman wrestling in a tub of Astroglide.
That's hot.
That is a fucking smooth.
That is a fucking smooth.
Also, hi, Jay.
You're more of a warrior.
Well, I can't beat everything.
I'm a rogue.
Oh, are you now?
Yes, I'm a rogue.
How did you determine this?
Exactly.
It's just my class.
You can't ask me to determine things like this.
It's just how it is.
I believe I would be a Gandalf.
Matt, you mean like a wizard?
A wizard wizard.
Wizard wizard.
The wizard.
Will you go out with me?
I don't date incels.
Oh.
That is perpetual right there, yeah.
Hey, efappers.
Hello.
Hello.
Hope you touch on that fat wannabe voice actor
pro-ZD's tism conniption about Joaquin's method acting.
Oh, that was from him, I guess.
I was mentioning that.
Yeah, I know I like him too.
I don't know why he was tweeting about my weird.
But okay.
Thanks for being entertaining and educational.
Listen to death metal.
I don't know how to interpret that.
Is he asking metal to listen to death?
Metal listen to death.
I don't have a direct connection to death.
What's death saying?
Let me check my phone here for a second.
You actually look forward to you really have
like seven texts from death.
The latest one just says, do not ward J.
Don't text him back.
He'll know you read it.
I asked Google, can we call death?
And it said, here we go.
And I got a link to the gateway.
We call death a book by Russell M. Nelson.
Oh, read it all too much right now on stream.
Read it all down too.
I don't think I can actually read all of it.
You can't read?
No, I cannot read.
That's depressing.
Why did you forget how to learn how to read?
In the gateway, we call death.
Elder Nelson has served in my profession.
I'm bored already.
Awesome.
Let's continue.
Okay.
Every time you stream, I have to do something
that stops me watching.
Start police college on Monday.
I'm going to quote Hot Fuzz constantly.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hot Fuzz is a good movie quote.
I'm going to watch The Joker on Monday with my family
and it'll be my fourth time watching it.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Love you more.
Oh, thank you.
I love you.
Oh, they'll put a little lesson three as well.
Adora Babbles.
I finally watched American Beauty the other day
and I loved it.
I feel the plot and characters were very well done
along with Kevin Spacey's performance.
Yeah, it's a really good film.
Shame about master knowledge.
Yes.
Not touchy, Poreto.
Can't wait to watch this in full.
Keep of the great content, guys.
Also, Hi Rags ad bullet.
Hello.
I love your wagsies.
I appreciate your company and patronage.
Yes.
Was wondering how long it would take
to get Literature Devil on.
Love your content and hello to the eFap crew.
Hello.
Yeah, we got them on.
There was supposed to be a second guest today
who still hasn't gone back to me.
So they might be a bit late,
but more than likely not coming on.
What do you mean?
I don't know.
I'm surprised they didn't send me any messages.
Love listening to you guys while I play games,
going through Witcher 3,
and waiting for my new graphics card to arrive.
And most importantly, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Use this to get you a tall glass of rhino milk.
How very wonderful.
How do you know I sent a preview pairing in the chat?
Who is the character on the left in that?
I think that's supposed to be George Lucas.
Oh.
Well.
Yeah, that's the side of it, George Lucas.
See what I forgot?
I didn't close the tab of Jar Jar Rule 34
when I missed it.
And then I tapped out my game
and I was just confronted by a massive Jar Jar with tits.
And I was like, oh, right.
Yeah, that's what I was doing.
It's only natural to pursue such exploits.
Yes.
Hello, eFabs.
You always make my day.
Thank you.
And hi, Rags.
Hello.
Always late, but love you guys.
And now I have something to listen to during work.
Hooray.
Hello, Wags.
Hello.
Longman, hello.
And Metal.
Hi.
There was nothing for you, Jay.
I'm sorry.
Not really, sorry.
Hello, Rags.
Hello.
Please, R, at P3, Kyle in RP.
Have no mercy.
R, at P3.
What do you think that says?
Rags, come on.
Rags.
Oh, sorry, sorry.
R, at.
Really?
Is that supposed to be like rape?
He nailed it.
I wouldn't do that.
He's part of my party,
and I'm always on the party side.
Well, what if it's consensual, rape?
Is that okay?
Well, I mean, it's not possible.
Oh, pfft, okay.
What if it, would it, okay,
what if you're like role-playing it
and you've consented to it?
Does that not count?
I guess that's the closest you can get,
but it wouldn't technically count, no.
I get, and a court of law,
I don't think that would count.
I answer my own question.
You know, Mauler,
it's easy for you to be like,
oh, you don't get it,
but you see it.
You could see it visually,
so it's obvious to you.
Honestly, I thought you could picture letters.
I just, I don't want my mistake.
Here's the thing, here's the thing.
Not right now.
Very well.
I had the idea that the whole Joker movie is in his head
and that Wayne's death at the end
is the idea of a punchline.
He laughs when he reads the story of them dying.
I can't afford to type it all out.
I would imagine the whole movie
is his recanting of the events
that brought him to the asylum
and that he would have found out about
the Wayne death or deaths later
and that recanting it,
knowing that it ends like that
is quite funny for a lot of reasons
that are important to how he parallels with Bruce
in relation to the families
and the upbringing and stuff.
Good to see you.
Huge fan, joining late.
Have you addressed the media's obsession
with incels and incitement to violence,
a position I don't personally agree with?
It's weird.
The whole thing is weird.
There's that like-
How many actually violent incels have there been?
Like a few, but-
It only makes sense.
If you're not having sex, you gotta shoot something.
Shoot your load or shoot some bullets.
Yeah.
Rags, when does the doggo's next video release?
I don't know.
I've been working on it though.
I've been progressively-
Progressive.
Sorry.
I've been being able to like every day,
not today though, today I was fucked.
But like in most days, I'm actually able to sit down
and I could do like a bit
and I can keep adding to it and I can keep adding to it.
So it's kind of like I feel like I'm back
in the swing of things, you know?
Well, people are saying that we like-
No, no, no, it was just a little hiccup.
It's all good.
It's all good.
Like Adams.
Did we give it down for a sec though?
I think so.
Last thing we need is to split this into three.
Put your dicks back in.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Why are we talking about Joker?
Black Widow is coming out.
Ooh.
It's true.
It is coming out.
We had to cover the Joker video because it was terrible.
That's true, yeah.
I have a friend who says she doesn't like Calvin and Hob
solely because it isn't diverse enough.
I disagree, but I'd like to hear your thoughts.
Enjoy eFapping.
This is stupid reason not to like something.
What is it?
Gee, sure.
There's a lot of progressives
who would hate you for saying that.
This is stupid reason not to like something.
I mean, I don't know.
Like the main characters are a little human boy
and a fucking tiger.
They're not even the same species.
Why would that matter?
Racist.
Yeah.
I mean, that's pretty diverse, isn't it?
Where isn't it?
I started dating a new girl whose brother is an eFap fan.
We had a discussion in which we spoke in eFap lore.
Oh my God.
It was a good time.
So if you're watching this, hi, Jeffrey.
Yes, hello, Jeffrey and Mark.
Hello, Jeffrey.
Discuss in eFap's language of which is very comprehensive.
Not yet complete, but you know, we're getting there.
Your jab's fallen over and you get to vote twice
and what are the other ones?
All of the other ones.
There's like 17 billion.
You know this.
I'm stupid.
Billion.
Sup, you massive n-worded J long boned Ewoks.
Some of that person answered it for us.
Answer me.
BRB PewDiePie, I got to watch King of Comedy.
What?
Okay.
You're probably back twice by now.
EFAP on my 25th birthday?
Also, Hi Rags.
Well, happy birthday to you.
Happy birthday to you.
Happy birthday.
Have a good birth.
The Lion King ripped off Kimba's visuals and animation.
The story is Hamlet, not Kimba.
Fair enough.
Ripped off the visuals and animation.
Talking about Scorsese, thoughts on Raging Bull.
Very well made film, but comes across as apathetic.
Almost like Scorsese hates you for watching it.
Raging Bull.
I saw Raging Bull with my dad like when I was super youngtisms
and I don't remember a lot of it anymore.
That's a movie from 1980.
Yeah, you're a person from 1992?
Almost.
91?
Yeah.
Yes.
You were first time.
No.
You took him on a trip to purgatory?
Yes, fine, count me in.
I don't know what that's referencing.
Crysis of infinitivtisms.
Yeah, but that's not enough.
Seems specific.
That's all I got, I'm sorry.
I hate you.
Mom.
I love your videos, found you on Smudboy's streams.
Yep, oh, that's something else I could have said,
I suppose.
If you like literature devil responding to stuff,
he does it regularly with Smudboy on Smudboy's channel, so.
Shmord boy.
Go and flawm his glorms, I guess.
Go and flawm his glorms.
Didn't Disney have to put Kimba the White Lion
on their video release as a special feature
because of the claims that the story was stolen?
No idea.
I'm waiting for someone to,
because there is a video that I think is going around
that explains it, but YMS said he'll do a take on it.
Oh, watch that.
He see what I'm missing.
Yo, mauler, saw you got some unwarranted hate on Twitter
yet again, hang in there, man, and fuck them, they're wrong.
Yeah, it was weird.
I don't know why I picked up all in one day,
but it was a lot of Twitter stuff.
Those fuckers, man.
I thought it was just the one person
going after you that I saw.
There was a few content creators,
some of them up to 2K, like,
because there was a few sources.
One of them was posting the second journey stream.
One of them posted the comic
where Ra is throwing people off a rooftop,
if you remember, and we're like little cartoons.
That got like 2.5K of being like,
this is in-cell art, something like that.
Yeah, there was a couple.
Those fuckers are always sniping.
They're throwing the first stone,
and then in the end it's like,
oh, you're going around to checking people.
It's like, are you, what is this?
Well, yeah, and then Cosmonaut jumped in.
He was like, well, you just can't take criticism, man.
Like, you always have to like,
fuck him.
He made the claim that I like,
go and search for these people and quote to it.
And I was like, fucking hell, man.
Do you know how many people I'm not responding to?
Like, it's a lot.
But it's like-
It's like, people come plays like,
oh, I responded to one day old tweets like, yes.
It was weird as well,
because like, he was like, you know,
it's causing more problems.
And I'm like, well, I'm going to defend myself.
And he was like, well, yeah,
but there's got to be a better way to do it.
I was like, do you want to suggest it?
Just like, conversation over.
It's like, okay.
It cannot be suggested.
It's insane.
It's insane.
And they're also fucking smug about it.
I'm not even active about it.
Cosmonaut has bad teeth.
I'm just looking at it.
And it was like, what the fuck are you people talking about?
You're all insane.
Just have a notification for whenever he has a good take,
I guess.
It's like, it's maddening.
It's this super dusty bell,
because it never rings.
23, 31, it goes off.
Oh.
One day, like a sunny.
The whole time has arrived.
Sunny morning.
What did he say?
There's something really bland, like,
milk tastes pretty good sometimes.
Okay.
Yeah, no, it's been pretty insane.
Like the last week, like a lot of fucking stuff.
I'm not even directly involved,
but it still pisses me off.
I was like, I'm just reading.
I was like, what the fuck, man?
Just joined.
Please say you've seen 1917.
We have.
It was very good.
Yes.
You watched it.
You liked it.
I also persuaded my parents to see it.
I keep tabbing out and seeing Jar Jar Paugh.
Like, oh, right.
Just cross off it.
I've closed it now.
Did you?
Did you though?
Would you like to hear my mum's review of 19?
Okay.
She said.
Nice one.
She said, 1917 was.
She asked if the midget grew up to be a penguin.
Hot dogler.
Hot dogler.
She said, scene 1917, amazing.
My dad thought everything after the spoiler
was a dream sequence.
The rat scene.
Can we make it a rule?
No one's allowed to talk about dream sequences anymore.
I like that.
The dream sequence.
The dream sequence.
Put it down.
No.
Put down the dream sequence.
Dreams, dreams, dreams.
Dreams and flames.
Have you flimmed the plan in your dreamy dream?
Literature king, LK.
Wait, what is LK?
Lice king.
Oh no.
Lice king?
Well, there's got to be a king of everything, right?
So the lice have a king too.
Why?
You've got a license for that lice.
How do you not know that the lice have a king, dude?
Come on.
I'm just very uncultured.
Yeah.
LK is a rip off my work.
Mac Bilbo, Shakespeare-a-biddie.
Lion king.
It's lion king.
No, lice king.
I figured it out.
You're a lion king.
1917 was great.
Can't wait.
All the sequel.
1942.
World War II one.
Oh my God, it gets worse.
My favorite mega celestial epic, Massives to Watch.
Hello there.
Hello.
Yes, the world, entertainment, and saber spark
both did a good job in unbiased videos
on Lion King's King of the Controversy
if you're ever interested.
All right, there you go.
Yeah, I can believe it.
I absolutely can.
Ifap on my birthday.
Yeah, it looks like I'm not going to my party.
Also, hi, Rex.
Hello.
Happy birthday.
Abuse both idiots.
Is marriage story an incel movie?
Is marriage story?
I don't know, do they fuck?
I guess we'll find out.
We'll watch that one day.
Oh man.
I got married to somebody,
but it turns out they're an incel.
Oh no.
Talk to me.
But they wouldn't be an incel then.
No, they still would be.
It's not the act of marriage
that prevents you from being an incel.
It's the consummation.
That would present.
I'm thinking like, I'm just thinking though,
like, okay, it's 2020.
If you're marrying someone,
you've probably fucked them before.
No.
Just putting that out there.
No, you would never screw someone out of wedlock.
That is against the high crisp.
Crisp should shrink.
The high crisps.
Yes.
But I don't care about the high crisps.
Give me the crisps.
Give me, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me.
As someone who suffers with mental health issues
and similar struggles to Arthur,
I thought Joker handled the topic very well
and accurately showed its extremes
and what happens if it goes unchecked.
It's interesting,
you find both of those reactions plentiful.
There's both reactions, so you get that one
and then you get people being like,
that film was insulting to mentally ill people.
It's like, oh.
We need a definitive answer.
We have to go to the illest of mentally peoples
to find out if they're right or not.
Good job, I'm already here.
That's what you think.
Yeah.
I think it's fine.
There you go.
We answered all your questions of life.
I think it's insulted, but that's good
because the mentally ill need to be.
You think it's insulted?
Yes.
I like salt on my tomatoes.
Right.
That's a weird thing to like salt on.
I wouldn't want salt on my tomatoes, I'm being honest.
I'm just going to put it out there.
That's just been put out there now.
That's there.
Some salt and pepper on my tomatoes.
It's tasty.
I'm going to touch it.
It's right there.
I like salt and pepper on my fish and chips.
That's good as well.
World War II, some people did something.
Wow, they'd just be that broad with everything.
I'm not sure.
When you're going to have ER, PSA,
Sitch and Literature Devil at the same time
as we get to look at shadows.
We could do that.
Shadows.
You've got to have shadow on that as well.
So someone measures like ER talks way more in the chat
when he's not like that he does in streams.
He's been very active in chat today.
That is too correct.
Yes, I appreciate that.
Hello, ER.
I don't know why you enjoy this show,
but again, a lot of people do.
Also what I said, hello.
I looked into my camera and realized
there was a very dumb thing to do because it's not on.
And oh, it's on.
Oh, hello.
It's on.
It's on.
The one FBI agent who saw you is like, cool.
They see me, he likes me.
Good day, Evap.
Random question for you lot.
What are your takes on Drive?
A friend of mine showed it to me
and I didn't think it was good.
I don't know what Drive is.
I guess that's the one.
So when it came out, liked it.
Can't remember much about it now.
Drive, Google Drive.
No, that's not right.
Yeah, my only take on it is that it.
Good.
That's a nice take.
Oh yeah.
That was really detailed and in depth.
That means you cut out.
Oh, my only take on it is that it annoys me
when I'm trying to Google Google Drive
and it shows up instead.
Google Drive, Google Drive.
I'm so correct.
Nailed it.
Good old Google Drive.
World War One isn't talked about anywhere near enough.
They shall not be forgotten.
I actually agree with that.
But when people are like,
haven't we seen this enough?
It's like, fucking name me five World War One movies.
And then they'll be like,
Joker.
Joker.
I think like,
1917 was the first film that like made me actually feel
like I feel like really empathized
with the people in World War One.
It's great.
Too many World War movies.
I'm still waiting on someone to finish World War Three
so we can finally see the complete trilogy.
Yeah.
No, right.
I've also seen that Shrek video.
It's a good video.
Go watch it.
Just started a 24 hour shift.
Thank you massive for making the time go by for me.
A 24 hour shift?
What?
Sounds good.
What are you afraid of?
Yeah, that sounds illegal.
I was gonna say surely that even caps out
any kind of like personal thing of being like,
I will do,
maybe he's including a sleep part of it.
I don't know.
That's like three days of normal work for me.
Yes.
I mean-
So maybe like they have a live in position or something?
No, not live in, but like-
Maybe he means like two shifts that are back to back
between sleeping.
Still, that's-
Oh, after and before sleeping.
That's annoying-tisms.
I hope it goes over well.
Yeah, I hope I was,
we've been going for not even half of that,
but hopefully it's been some entertainment to a degree.
Yes.
An hour into the stream and no notification.
Thanks, YouTube.
Also, hi Rags.
Hello.
I like the Twitch and YouTube over shit with this.
Yes.
With the streams.
Maybe it's just really hard to do
and they're doing an amazing job at it,
considering how difficult it is.
Let's go with that.
No, it's not true.
But yes.
Damn, I really used to love Ralph.
Also hug Jay.
Oh, thank you.
Hug.
You could still love Ralph.
It was just a flume.
He tripped up.
He was like, oh, I fell over.
And then he's going to get back up.
It'll be fine.
Howdy, Mr. Rags.
I can't get up.
I'm sorry, what was the question?
Howdy, Mr. Rags.
Oh, that was a question.
Glad I was able to help out the eFap crew.
Thank you for letting me help out too.
You guys make awesome content.
I think that might be the,
because I remember that guy saying that
as soon as we said that the video
was from a flimpled angle.
And I think that was the flimpled angle that did it.
Holy shit.
An eFap on my birthday.
How many fucking birthdays we had today?
Happy birthday.
Happy birthday.
Happy birthday.
Happy birthday.
I'm such a lucky Ewok.
Thank you, long man.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello.
Oh, so many births that were happening today.
Birth-tisms.
Does Rags believe that-
All of us happen every day.
Yes.
Does Rags believe that art slash surrealist films
can't be good?
What?
And then it says,
I'm referring to films where many aspects
are left to interpretation.
No, I said we talked today in this episode
about the lighthouse and how we liked it.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Was the super chat before that though?
Maybe.
I don't know.
There you go.
I know what I must do.
I will shred this efab down to its last second
and then with the objective opinions you've collected for me,
create a new one teeming with life
that knows not what it has been given,
but only what it has lost.
That is a reference to Iron Man.
When he says he's gonna destroy the will
and reduce it to atoms.
Oh yeah, that's not-
And then Thanos stops him.
But like four Norse.
Yeah.
Can you imagine that in the final fight
you just trade positions for no reason?
Everyone thinks it's normal and the whole audience is like,
I don't know.
I think TLJ fans would like that.
Oh, it would subvert.
The expectations would be subvertated.
Expections.
Can y'all play Bad Day on the Midway?
It's a game made by the band The Residence
who like Bad Days on Midways.
Maybe.
I don't know what I need to add here.
Also, hi, Moleman.
Hello.
Hi.
No, no one said hi to you, right?
You want the Moleman?
Wait, what?
Author John C. Wright wrote a book
about how awful TLJ was.
His humor reminds me a lot of Maulers.
Was good to hear from a professional writer.
Cool.
John C. Wright, eh?
Perhaps he's a long man.
Who knows?
Sounds like a long man.
Long man.
It's a whole book.
I guess their books are different like-
Long, long, long man.
Ow, yeah.
Yeah.
Long, long, long.
You know that-
Long dong?
That thing.
What?
I don't know.
You know that thing, right?
The long, the Japanese long.
Oh yeah, yeah.
That's actually, that was a no selection of me.
Anyway, the toxic brood has assimilated the bots.
Oh yes.
I can't buy superchats larger than $2.
What the fuck?
I don't know if it limits based on something weird,
but I'm sorry it's preventing you
from doing the things you wish to do,
but thank you for the $2 regardless.
What's the thing Boogie said about-
A lie.
$3.
Did you say a lie?
A lie.
You said $3 is a lot for a person of color.
Yeah, there you go.
$2 is a lot for a person of non-color, I guess.
But I have a B drive that's also a gun, so that's cool.
Oh Boogie.
I believe that was a deep fake for such a long time.
At least rapists and Nazis believe in something goddamn.
What do rapists believe in?
Rape.
God, I thought it was obvious.
Can someone clip that, those like three seconds
on their own?
What do rapists believe in?
Rape.
Please, bad bot, steal my comments.
Maybe that someone will read it.
I need this.
Oh.
Honey crisp apples.
All other apples are an affront to God.
Do you guys know that?
I didn't know that.
I did not know that, no.
Even if it's CGI, I couldn't tell before
and I still can't tell now.
That's what makes separate CGI and adding to immersion.
I mean, yeah, we fucking,
we were on that topic for like 10 hours.
It took a while.
Criticism to begin with and it was also very weird
to put that like at the beginning, it's like CGI.
Nailed it.
That's why people think it's a parody
and it could very well be.
It's not CGI, it's CG weave.
That's how we're doing in communism.
It's in the name.
The name.
Don't be EA.
Leave Jay alone.
Jay is a good guy.
It's in the name, unless it's Alfred.
Is that supposed to be a chocolate?
Yes.
Also, someone just said you're a good guy
and you didn't say anything, Jay.
That's fucked up.
I'm a good guy.
Thank you.
Yeah, there you go.
What does Jay think of death wish slash dirty Harry?
I know what death wish is.
Just skip that question, Jimmy.
Yeah.
He's not seen it.
I'm so sorry.
Wrong.
Granny Smiths are the one true Apple.
All right.
Ask Ralph if it hurts.
I love that I threw that into my Rise of Skywalker video
and so many people will be like, what the fuck was that?
Like when he zoomed into Kylo and said, does it hurt?
What is that?
I wanna know.
I can't remember that.
What part was that in?
It's when I say that they have their first Skype call
I just cut to him and go, does it?
And then it just moves on.
That's a joke.
The part of your Rise of Skywalker video
that I remember is just like this one part
that stuck with me for no reason,
which is just, you know,
when Rey sends them the coordinates
and you go, she can do that, woohoo.
Just the way that you said woohoo has stuck with me now
and every time I wanna be sarcastically pleased
about something it plays in my brain.
Well, like a really just a sort of woohoo.
I can't do it.
I can't do it justice.
Rags, really wanna see a new video from you.
Got anything in the works for your main channel
or dog bites?
I do, yeah, I do.
It is kind of long.
What I'm thinking about doing is,
I'll tell you later, I'll tell you later.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Hadn't an argument with one of my associates
about the deleted scene in Captain Marvel.
Just couldn't get him to see she was in the wrong.
Can I get a D in chat for the Dawn?
Yes, you can.
Also, how the fuck can anyone interpret that
as her doing the right thing?
Oh.
Get your D's out.
Ignore the fact that we've covered several people
who think she's doing the right thing.
Just, yeah.
Humanity's disappointing.
How dare you massive start efap during my D and D session.
Jeb and the Dom will be hearing about this.
Also, hi Rags.
Sorry.
Hello.
Is Twilight also rated F for fuck vampires?
Oh my goodness.
There are a lot of ways to interpret that.
I, I, that's, that's true, Jay.
Cause do vampires even have blood?
Cause if some see
Oh, they can't get a stiffy.
Exactly.
Your mind is in the gutter with me.
Oh my goodness.
Jay escaped the gutter before it's too late.
Is that why they drink blood?
To get an erection.
They have to, they have to spend it wisely.
Well, how else do they make vampires babies?
They have to kill to have sex or masturbate.
Huh.
I finished my review of Vanquish,
which should go up on Geeks and Gamers soon.
Look for the efap meme.
It's a game by the director of Resident Evil 4.
You played it?
It's a really great third-person shooter.
Vanquish is fun.
I haven't played it.
Jay, you must've played it.
It was a steam release.
No, I don't know.
Stop making this joke about games.
Games aren't real.
It was originally a PS3,
but then it got a steam release,
which was kind of good,
but it had a bugtism.
Can you even prove that?
I mean, it is on steam right now.
You can just look it up.
You can even, no, you can't.
All right.
The Irishman is basically efap.
Because it's long.
Irishman is short.
Wait, what?
How could you say that?
Oh my goodness.
But you're here with us.
Damn it.
What?
I'm confused now.
Irishman is just long.
I think that's what they mean.
Yeah, that's the funniest.
But Irishman is downright tiny
compared to the massive length of an efap.
Puny Irishman.
You're gonna burn all right, motherfucker.
Black's JC Denton.
Right?
Okay.
Rags, have you heard that Steve
finally got the non sequitur show back?
Also, would you say that Ray killed Palpatine in TROS
or that he killed himself?
Uh, very glad that Steve got the non sequitur show back.
That's very good.
I'm very happy.
I'm very glad.
I really am.
I just sound insincere because I'm tired.
But I really am glad.
You mentioned that earlier and I read it in the chat
and I'm like, oh, that's good.
I'm very, very glad about that.
What was it so far?
Second question was, would you say that Ray killed Palpatine
or that he killed himself?
Oh, I think he killed himself.
They helped each other out.
Yeah.
Even I would be like, it's a bit of both, I guess.
Yeah.
It's kind of a group effort.
He's responsible for his own death
because he just didn't stop doing lightning.
I'm just trying to picture like Rags
just throwing balls at me.
But if they hit him, he dies.
And I'm just slowly directing them at him.
Like they're moving closer, closer.
And he sees that.
He just keeps throwing the balls.
He's like, it doesn't matter.
I gotta keep going.
So I am, I am choosing to murder him there,
but he's also seemingly okay with it.
It's just weird.
I am all the Jedi.
And I am all of the Sith.
You're like, wait a minute.
Count Dooku goes inside Ray and he's like,
this is revenge for fucking me over at episode three.
I haven't forgotten about that shit, you old asshole.
Like, whoa.
Count Dooku goes inside Ray.
Yes.
He goes inside Ray.
What's wrong with that?
Wait, what about Saggy Drops?
What?
What about Saggy Drops?
I don't know.
I thought you said that.
And I was like, Jay, just cause you're old
doesn't mean your semen becomes saggy.
It doesn't even make sense.
Well, can you prove that?
I used science yesterday and I proved it.
How, that's not totally up to date anymore though.
Half of Ralph's vids are objectively good.
The other half, no.
Damn.
Yeah, the other half, no.
Rags, are you eating while talking?
It makes you sound fat.
No, no.
I'm not fat.
I am pretty good looking.
I was just hungry.
I had a meat.
A meat.
Real question for everyone here and TSWG
if she's still in the chat.
Do you guys see potential for a good story
in Mando season two?
What's potential for this story?
It's always potential,
but they're going to have to fucking change something.
Please crank it up, fellas.
Crank it up.
I just don't care.
Racist.
That fucking zeroes just fucking lost me completely.
My name is Ray, racist.
How have you not heard that before?
That's like one of those common ones.
I hate you.
I haven't heard that one before.
That's the first time I've heard that.
Ray, Ray, Shadow Legends.
That's the most common one I've seen.
The visual meme is better
because she sees like a whole bunch of like racists
as ghosts.
She's just like racist.
Ray, racist.
Also, yeah, look at that.
Jose in chat.
Wow rags.
I'm not fat.
I'm good looking.
What the heck is that?
Oof.
Ableist or fattest.
I don't know how much one is.
The term is fatphobic.
Fatphobic.
Plus sized phobic.
Rags, I gotta know.
What the hell keeps you belching all the time?
It's hilarious.
But why?
Today it was alcohol.
Oh, but why though?
What was it tomorrow?
I don't know yet.
They said also.
Probably.
It'll probably be, I know I'm not done.
Come guzzling.
I guess.
All right.
Hello.
Thank goodness.
Tomorrow it'll probably be me.
Yeah.
Because I gotta, because I gotta finish this stuff in there
and I bought some, some shrimp.
I have some of those.
Shrimply pebbles.
I don't know how.
Thank you belch.
Shrimply pebbles.
What the fuck is that?
I know that so well.
What's that?
Shrimp?
Shrimply pebbles.
No, I know that name.
I know what it's from.
Is it Rick and Morty?
Yes.
But now you gotta, now you gotta know which episode
and thing is from.
I know what it's from exactly.
You gotta get it Jay.
Don't look at chat.
I'll be cheating.
Oh, I'm not looking at chat.
I'm halfway through.
Hello.
All right.
Well, you just put, just think about it
and then get back to me when you find out.
Okay.
I mean, from your own brain.
Jay, wish me a happy poop again, but make it sexy.
Have a, anything I say is going to be sexy.
So why do you want me to do a different one?
Oh.
Have a good poop.
That was pretty sexy.
Oi, Morley.
Like an Iron Man three of a prestige mate.
I'll kill you.
Joker beat TROS needs to be a thing in box office,
like solo lost money.
TROS means the rise of Skywalker, by the way.
Keep it up guys.
Love the content.
How's it, how's it beat lit?
What was it?
Cause TROS is still going, right?
The rise of Skywalker?
No, the other one.
The round orphan song.
Yeah, that one, that one.
That's the one, man.
The round orphan song.
Yeah, it made a billion in the box office.
That's such a good movie.
What do you mean?
What do you mean if it's not the rise of Skywalker?
Rags, it's okay.
The world is confusing and scary place.
But if you know the dark side,
you could have access to some unnatural things
that could help you get through.
Like cloning.
From any abilities that some would on that.
Would anyone say that they were natural?
And he's like, yeah, a few, I think.
Naturally survived.
I wouldn't say I'd like to be in the film now.
He's like, I survived the Death Star explosion.
I blew up twice and I'm right here.
Then they're like, yeah, that seems natural.
The 1990s mauler.
I'm tired of these mock ass busters and their tism takes.
Rags, help me pop the trunk on this fool.
1990s rags.
Woof, woof.
I love that little katoom that the car makes
when you open up the trunk.
I got to talk to Paul Giamatti once
since he was on the same flight.
He's a nice dude.
Cool.
Oh, it doesn't seem kind of nice.
I would like to be Paul Giamatti.
Paul Giamatti, come on, Efap.
I think his name is Paul Giamatti.
That's how he's supposed to pronounce it.
Paul Giamatti.
Paul Giamatti.
Paul Giamatti.
Who's Paul Gio?
Paul Giamatti.
Congrats on finally watching something, Jay.
One down.
They said 199 to go.
Wow, that sucks.
I don't know if that's about the prestige
or about 19, 19.
Thank you.
Those are the two films I've seen.
You're like.
They said 199 to go.
You're like that much behind the person
who's a billion behind, you know?
I think it's just terrible.
There are only 119, no, sorry, 200 films.
Okay, there's 203 films.
So they're still off, but close.
No, those are the other three films I've seen.
Nobody likes Justice League.
That's the point of release the Snyder Cut.
Oh, okay.
This is probably true.
I was trying to think of who likes it.
I was like, actually, no, everyone hates it.
It's fine.
In the CW universe, no, literally no one likes it.
Not a person.
What if they're not people?
What if they're unnatural?
What if they're slithery, sloopy snakes?
I like some movies.
Some can see.
I think sloopy is a better way to describe
like really old vegetables and not necessarily snakes.
What about cooked carrots?
What about really old snakes?
What about snakes that are like?
A snoop, a snoop, a snoop, snoop, snoop.
What if the snake's doing that?
A snoop.
Have you ever, Rags, did you ever watch Bamzooki?
Bamzookini?
Bamzooki.
Bang that zooki.
What's Bamzooki?
People in chat represent Bamzooki.
I know what Bamzooki is.
You don't count.
It's probably British only, that is.
Yeah, it's gotta be right.
It seems like the kind of thing they wouldn't know.
It was like shitty robot wars.
Fuck you.
Robot wars is best.
Shit, that are battle bots.
They beat that stupid zooki bam.
Everyone knows the truth.
In the CW universe, Batman has been gone for three years
and weirdly, Gotham is in a very good state.
The whole city would be under the control
of his Rugs gallery within one year, Arkham City style.
Yeah, it makes no sense that he's been gone for that long
and nothing's happening, but they do argue in the show
that her coming back and taking his place
is encouraging villains to...
That doesn't really make sense, does it?
You'd think they'd be like,
oh, there's a Batman who's back?
Let's now attack.
It's like, can I attack other places?
Boardman.
Big nut.
You guys, that's some good input.
I appreciate that.
You're welcome.
I'm slowly falling into tiredisms.
Why?
It's literally just, it's neat.
Oh, okay, the half past four in the morning.
No, no, it's 40 for me right now.
Oh.
You fucking blazing it?
Yeah.
Don't blaze it.
Or you'll get hurt.
Oh, I've just rolled into high noon.
So that has the word high in it.
Yeah, doo doo doo.
Yeah.
Nice one.
Weed.
I'm getting a bohemet as a tattoo.
Thoughts, boys?
A bohemet?
A bohemet.
The Merhajapit?
Whoa, that's, I think that's racist.
You're not supposed to say it like that.
Bohemet?
The dragon?
Bohemet.
The dragon thingy?
The monster?
Isn't he from like?
I approve of dragons.
Yeah.
Dragon for the dragon lord.
Bahamut.
It's like a dragon monster thingy.
You're getting them, why?
Why are you getting bahamut on your bahabut?
Bahamut.
I don't know.
I mean, I don't know.
I wouldn't, if it was me.
If you feel it's all right, then okay.
But make sure you really want that bahamut on your body.
You can get tattoos removed now.
Or cover them with something.
That's science fiction.
You have to shave off your skin with sandpaper.
Yeah.
Cut off your arms.
Oh my goodness.
They just like to get rid of the tattoos.
Cut off your arms that'll go away.
Yeah.
I see both of them, right?
Rags, is exclusively games dead?
I don't know.
I don't think so.
Is it?
I don't think so.
Well, what was the last review
you made for exclusively games?
It was a while ago.
They're on hiatus.
They'll start later,
but I don't really know the status of it.
Very well.
Ralph is actually serious about his Joker review.
You don't know that.
He could be planning like a bait and switch reveal thing.
He's in a pretty good position
because his review is so bad
that he could just randomly be like,
yeah, I was just fucking with you.
It's all good.
The thing is, I would expect at that point
for him to reveal some kind of,
like have some big plan
where he releases a second video
that puts it all into perspective as a joke.
Because that kind of thing on its own
is not a good way to do it already.
Like if he, maybe some of his skits,
like there's, he plays like the full parts
and then he's like,
this is all actually just bullshit
and whoever falls for it, blah, blah, blah.
Or I was trying to impersonate blah, blah, blah, or.
I was trying to bait Efep to have an Efepening.
Well, you can't deny it was a successful,
satisfying Efep, whether or not.
It was satisfying.
The video in question was truly legitimate.
But like I said, I'm pretty sure he does actually.
You can't just say that a video isn't legitimate.
Neither can you.
No, I agree.
It's a horrible thing to say.
Stop agreeing.
Stop agreeing, God.
God just kind of, he kind of jumps in the bandwagon.
About God, like he's not in this car.
Who's God?
I am.
It was just decided, I'm all over.
Oh, Satan was in here earlier
and you got along pretty well.
Yeah, we're pros now.
Like all that, all that shit that we went through that,
you know, that's like dust under a bridge, man.
Dust under a bridge?
Dust under a bridge?
Dust under a bridge?
No, it's a dry, it's a dry,
it's a dry time.
That's a total-ism.
Dust, it's just dust at the end of the rainbow.
At the end of the rainbow.
Just because it's bad doesn't mean it's bad.
End of the full rain.
So this says Arrowverse is mind AIDS.
Cool.
Yeah.
Oh no, because at least you get to die from AIDS.
Ralph went full H bomber guy with his Joker review.
H bomber guy's videos are much better than that.
I was gonna say, which H bomber guy video
would you be referencing for the Joker Ralph one?
I guess the Dark Souls one.
Yeah, I guess DS2 counts.
That's actually very apt and consuming
because it's a lot of, you know what?
Yeah, I've just retarded, fair enough.
Masses like this make me wanna study reanimation.
I'd shoot them in the head, bring them back to life,
then throw them off Ra's roof.
Also you missed Jay's dishonored stream.
He found a good rat.
I'm not gonna watch him play video games, that offends me.
The AIs decided to stop working half of one of the missions.
So all of the NPCs thought I was a table.
And they all started trying to kill the table.
There's great clip, I'll show you one there.
Very well.
Which member of you family do you think you could go to
for help if you had to hide a body?
Also High Rags.
You've been a very good boy.
My family are too ethical to help me hide a body.
I think they would advise the shit out of me
to own up, to go to the police, that sort of thing.
I don't think any of them would help me hide a body.
I have to hide it myself.
I'm trying to think if I have like,
you know the cliche that gave everyone has like one.
Any one of my family like that I was bringing to mind.
Everyone has one?
Everyone has one family member
who'd help them hide a body.
Everyone has one body, that's true.
What about people without bodies?
They don't count.
Like Snoke, he's a tested baby, he doesn't own the body.
If you cut off your toe, would you have like two bodies?
Yes, try it.
No, one toe would be the body
and then the body would be not the body.
One toe, one toe, one toe, one toe.
Oh my God.
Star Wars girls, she said she could hide the body,
no problem.
All right.
There you go.
Cool.
How dare you criticize this man,
this adult man's opinion on the internet
after he insulted you.
Only children engage in behavior like civil discussion.
Well, I'm not just a child, I'm a moronic child.
Also a teenager.
Joker is out on digital
but still running in some theaters here in Norway.
It's not even a re-release.
It's been going nightly since release.
Oh my God. That's cool.
Yes.
Infinite money.
Crisis on infinite nights.
The talk show scene is from Dark Knight Return.
The scenes is also in the Dark Knight movie.
Very well.
Hi, Moeller and Rags.
Hello.
Hello.
Been looking for you to cover this one.
Also check out Above the Storm on Amazon
for epic fantasy adventure.
Very well.
Ralph found there was a suspicious amount of women
of blackness and SJW midgets in Joker.
Reviews are gay.
Well, the detective.
All right.
The Joker have a suspiciously amount of dwarves.
Freaking SJW in four hours.
SJW film Joker is because,
has the Schindlerman.
Media surprising you is overrated.
A twist is only an improvement
if after knowing it, the story makes more sense.
Many great stories have obvious plots.
Agreed.
Like too few jobs spread over too many clowns.
Oh, like too much butter spread over too much bread.
It's like like too few jobs spread over too much.
I get it.
You should review Chris Stuckman's Joker review.
Chris Stuckman's boring.
He's boring and dull.
Though I guess that makes us more.
Maybe his Joker review is good.
No, Jay.
How dare you?
Maybe it's bad.
Why would you get my hopes up like that?
Why don't you just go hatefully review his short film?
I know you want to.
Racist.
You should do, you should do high top film, short film.
We should check that out.
And then, because as far as I'm almost certain
that's gonna be a lot better than Chris's.
I could believe it is.
I could also believe it isn't, no.
I could believe you believe stuff.
He didn't even reply to that.
I'm sorry, I know it's true.
I don't see the need to dignify that with a response.
Do you think Jay from Red Letter Media
changed his bad take on Joker yet?
And if not, do you think he's upset
about Joker getting the most Oscar nominations?
Absolutely.
I think he's gonna find that ridiculous.
Because Todd Phillips is not a real movie maker.
That's the reasoning.
And if you think he is, you're probably a teenager.
Fucking teenagers everywhere.
14, 20.
God damn it.
He escaped the teenager phase.
It's a mag, not a clip, literature devil.
Oh my God, did he call it, did he call a mag?
He did call a mag a clip.
He was incorrect.
What was he referencing?
I forget what, but I can't remember that he did.
I wanted to say something,
but I couldn't.
Couldn't because you're a coward.
I didn't tell Satan how guns work.
Watch Seven Psychopaths, I assume.
Seven Psychopaths?
Well written, but didn't like it was strange.
While in Bruges again, or watched in Bruges again
and loved it.
Well written dialogue, tragic, funny, also high rags.
There are two films that are gonna make rags
much eventually too.
We're getting there.
There's a lot of films as you can tell.
Randolph visited Arthur, not to check up on him.
He visited him to cover his ass for giving him the gun.
Completely selfish, which is probably why he dead.
I think that makes sense.
I would need to look at the specific dialogue in the scene,
but he is concerned that they're looking
for a killer clown who's shooting people
and he knows he has a gun and it's his gun.
But yeah, it's, the other guy was definitely there
because he was a nice-tism.
His video is not real.
It's just a delusion.
Oh, we can say the whole video was a dream.
It was a dreamlike experience.
Ralph is just a snob who thinks anyone,
anything less than art film movies that win awards
in Cannes are junk dialing.
Have you seen the Elvis the alien TROS video?
He mentions you a couple of times.
I have.
We should have him on Efap one of these days.
Yeah.
We should invite him if we ever cover like a Joker video
by Ralph, we should invite him to come.
I will invite him on this.
Not this stream, this stream as in Efap is a stream.
You wouldn't invite him to this stream, would you?
No, but I will invite him in future for sure.
And we will discuss things.
But yeah, his video was what I would call fine.
I agree.
Well, I can't believe you'd say that
with him on the stream.
But yeah, it was the video like tries to cover
the Twitter drama, but then also just sort of quickly
reviews the Star Wars movies, sequel trilogy.
You know, like it's fine.
It's sort of like a brief overview, very chill.
It doesn't say a huge amount.
It's any controversial.
It just sort of says like more as twittering
with people who are twittering back, blah, blah, blah.
Fine.
Why do people have the hottest fucking takes about Joker?
Holy shit.
Anyways, hi Rags.
Hello.
And yeah, I have no idea, honestly.
Joker just brings it out of people.
I'm like TLJ did.
One of the stuff is done that.
Godzilla would agree.
That's insane.
You know, I just whispered the TNG theme and oh my God.
And then I clicked the next button on Imgur.
And it's a fucking the Star Trek, the next generation meme.
I'm not even, I'm not even shitting you.
Oh my goodness gracious.
I didn't, that's, oh my God.
How did they know?
How did they know?
Stop.
Fuck.
Oh my goodness.
Oh my God.
Chances that happening are low.
It's the chances of seven.
Yeah, there's a chance of two in there, like three maybe.
Oh my God.
Another Joker take.
Keep going you Massives.
Also Hi Rags.
How?
Drunk Rag is sounds like Travis from Taxi Driver.
Salaam alaikum drunk ala rags.
Oh, hi.
Rags has been at the fermented Rhino Milk.
Yeah, there's a good chance of that.
Hi Rags, please rate human cat girl style ears and tail
and throw in full animal for most to least sexy
and then rate each for sexiness on a one to 10 scale.
Okay, let's take a look at that in text form.
Hi Rags, I'm sorry about that.
Hi Rags, please rate human cat girl style ears and tail
and throw in full animal for most of these sexy
and then rate each for sexiness on one to 10 scale.
What am I rating?
Because it's like just the ears alone.
I'm guessing that it's like human ears, not very sexy.
Sorry.
I think it means them as a whole.
What?
So like your full categories are full human, full animal.
Full human, they can be, they can be very sexy.
They can also be very not sexy.
They can be everywhere from hideous
to beautiful cat girl style ears and tail.
I need examples because we're just talking
conceptually here because conceptually,
I don't have a problem with any of this stuff.
Imagine it's the same person
and they're morphing from thing to thing.
Oh, like an Animorphs book cover.
That person is Poe Dameron.
Oh my goodness.
Oh, what animal would he be?
I don't even know what he'd be.
I have to think about it.
He would be a Pima.
I need examples of these things.
I need examples, not just like the idea.
Poe Dameron is a Pima.
It's almost like saying on a scale of one to 10,
rate a hot girl.
You know, it's like, I don't know, eight and a half.
Wait, who?
Poe Dameron.
As?
Pima.
I think a panther kind of fits him.
A Puma panther, you know, like a big cat thingy,
you know, nothing gay, but just like, you know.
I think I kind of fits him.
I kind of fits him.
Like Bagheera.
Big ear.
Is that it?
Did you do it?
Big ear raw.
Done.
Did you do it?
Someone's like, regs, no xenomorphs.
Yeah, I love him even more now.
He's like, you, you're a weird one.
Did you do it?
Is that it?
I'm sorry, I guess I'm not really like capable of doing it
without it.
Like I said, this is kind of asking me like,
rate a girl, but with blonde hair, now with brown hair,
now with black hair, on a scale of one to 10.
I'm like, oh man, I don't know.
All right, someone draw Poe Dameron
in the various stages of Puma.
It's an anamorph going from Poe Dameron
to just fucking Puma.
Just fully a Puma?
Makes sense to me.
It'll be helpful if only he assaults the Death Stars
on the top, he could run off the top of them.
Yeah.
Joker is clearly a rip off of 1966's Batman series,
which stars Cesar Romero as Joker,
with bloody unoriginal copycats.
I knew it.
Ass Hunter is how Rags learned he was bisexual
because he would intentionally lose the game.
Oh no, I was afraid.
At that time, I was afraid of being ass raped
by homosexuals in the forest.
It's only natural.
I was like, oh my goodness, isn't that like unsanitary?
Like, I don't know where that penis has been.
It's probably been fucking all the other homosexuals
in the forest.
It's got an audio on the bums.
F for Jimmy Hoffa died for our sins.
Fuck.
Jimmy Hoffa?
Waffa.
Afghanistan wore obviously a rip off of the Vietnam War.
Yes.
I watched Just Write's Hobbit videos.
Not exactly sure why Wolf thought they were good.
He contradicts himself in the video or ignores scenes.
I guess.
I haven't seen them.
Memories of butter.
Memories.
We made a cursed brew of food in Doner sauce.
Okay.
Like Al Pacino in Heat, shut up Ralph, sit down.
Oh God, don't need to be so violent.
Ralph can continue speaking.
I just hope that he doesn't speak in the same way.
You know?
Can continue speaking, but should he?
That's a philosophical question.
Bigidious will have to be consulted.
If we all watch a stream with ER in it,
doesn't that everyone mean watching a Nazism?
Yes.
We're all Nazis now.
You didn't ask for it.
You didn't want it, but it is.
Rags, remember to stick to our community guidelines.
Like glue.
Yes.
I shall stick to them.
Why would you include uninteresting characters
if you can just choose to include interesting characters?
Right.
You don't need to flesh out every character
for characters.
Then fleshing them out will be unnecessary.
Also, this is a malformed question.
So it's like, what makes an interesting character
when there are boring people in this world?
As in like to populate your universe,
you would have boring people.
Does that make them as in like monotonous or lame?
I don't know.
I don't understand the question.
Also, I find the characters interesting in Joker.
Drunk Doggo and Satan in a religious stream.
Hashtag kick J.
Oh my goodness gracious.
You're being kicked because this is a religious stream
and you're getting in the way of the religion-tism.
But I love all religions.
Like nepotism.
Incest.
I don't think that's a religion.
Is incest your religion?
Yes.
It is to some people.
I only heard tism.
I mean, religions can be founded by pedophiles.
Sure, why not?
Pedidism.
Those are the three religions, right?
Nepotism, incest and narcolepsy.
Yes.
Suspicious amounts of women of color and dwarves, lol.
Seriously, it's DC fanboys who hate this.
Never once brought up Batman reviewing this either.
Yeah, I mean, some people just can't resist.
Speaking of Oscar nominations,
watch Jojo Rabbit, you massive.
Now I know we had mentioned it by now.
I will.
Metal, please watch it.
It's got funny.
We gave it a thumb up, the bum bum.
I gave it.
Watch it next week.
But next week starts tomorrow.
Yeah, but next week, like Friday
when I'm driving home on the train,
I have a lot of time to watch a movie.
Drunk as fuck, yet no talk of dick.
I is disappoint, Rags.
Well, you know.
Quick, talk, quick, dick.
I love it.
Better than the jungle.
Jar Jar Binks.
Jar Jar Binks.
All right, yeah.
What do you call audio pops objectively bad, hmm?
Wait, what do you call audio pops objectively bad?
So like, if you just cut into like a background sound
instead of like fading in,
it can be jarring and distracting.
Not necessarily bad every time,
especially when you're being used
to a strong effect, I suppose.
I'm watching 59.
To answer your questions about trailers,
I often watch Swatoor's ones
because it's possible to do enough Star Wars
without destroying the originals.
Yeah, I don't begrudge anyone for returning to trailers,
but wasn't the thing I was responding to
someone being like, I often watch the trailers
for like, what movie was it?
Yeah, it was Joker.
It was Jeb Nichols talking about how she
thoroughly enjoys Joker's trailer,
but she doesn't like the film.
And I found it weird as hell.
That's, oh, go drunk rags, you're home.
Also, hi, everyone.
I am, I am home.
I've been home all day.
Whoa.
Fuck home.
You understand why I'll never watch Ralph
with this being my first impression
when he says stupidity like rated R movie
is made for 14 year olds.
I mean, it's up to you.
I would begrudge anybody for being like,
I don't want to watch another one.
It's like, yeah, that's fine.
Not a great impression, sure.
I finally watched Joker,
and thus the eFaps on this subject.
So regarding Rags' proper use of an apostrophe comment
from last year, he's wrong.
I mainly go for-
Nice year.
Yeah, I mainly go for fashion over function in fantasy.
I don't understand how that's a,
I don't get it.
I thought my life was a tragedy,
but now I realize it's a
Lanpere, Pulgwin, Golgi, Gory, Huygen,
Drombilly, Tincesilio, Gogogogog.
Bilgeau-Kurgens.
Bilgeau-Kurgens as Welsh, I think.
Bilbo-Jurgens.
Also, you still have yet to watch
Hardcore Henry, you dumbos.
I know, it's on a list. One day, one day, one day.
I watched Hardcore Henry a long time ago.
Fire.
Okay.
Didn't say anything, yeah.
That one Wall Street guy was genuinely terrifying.
In Joker?
Or are we talking about someone else?
Don't know. Yeah, which one?
Hey, I'm doing a review of the Hobbit series.
Holy shit, I understand how much work you do now.
14k words, and I don't like a single one.
In my first recording, I sound like shit.
How do you do it?
Loads of redrafting.
Never had to redrafting.
Yeah, it never ends.
There is no video.
It's about the journey, not the destination.
The tall middle.
The key is to die and lay in your grave
with a copy of the perfect video
that no one has ever seen except yourself.
Then you will have won.
I was present for the birth of the Bilbo meme.
I have seen many forms of wolf.
I've seen the banishment of Jared to the void.
The good rat looking at women, the dawn, rhino milk.
And he's been there, man.
He's been there.
Rags, why are you laughing?
Something funny, asshole.
I get it.
That's not a thing people say.
If this video is deliberately bad,
is this video then the spiritual success
as a Quentin reviews his Citizen Kane video?
It's supposed to be Alfred.
Kinda?
I'm not gonna say it's not kinda.
Kinda?
First, Efap Super Chat, you massive.
Any plans for Film Gob to be a guest in the future?
He's a big DCEU fan,
would make for a great discussion slash debate.
No reason to have anything against it.
Don't know anything about him personally.
I've seen it all.
And now I have arrived to Efap up to date
after watching every single episode in its entirety.
Despite being here to see its birth,
I was absent for a very long time.
Thank you for the Tism's long man
and the mighty massives of the toxic brood.
Hi Rags.
Hello.
Kick J.
Well, he's already kicked, you see, the mute, he's kicked.
He kicked himself because he's hungry.
Thank you for the 1.2 buzz.
Thank you for the 1.2 billion hours of entertainment.
Now please play Akbar's theme.
That would be Ocean Man.
Though that's one of the many claims
that got hit with the copyrightism video.
Ocean Man took it down.
Well, down but not quite forgotten.
Hi Mauler, hello.
I really liked RTMM, but this video was really bad.
You should check the Sardana cast with the cover Joker.
It's really tismy.
Also, hi Rags.
Hello.
So I just went to go get food.
I was making like a nice wrap, right?
Cause I like the nice and easy to make.
Word.
You were on me?
Yeah, I was putting cream cheese in it.
That's all right.
Only white people put cream cheese in their wrap.
Yeah, I'm fine with that.
And my laundry basket was out.
Cause my washer was in my kitchen.
It's getting whiter and whiter.
As my laundry basket was out with laundry in it.
My washer, which is in my kitchen.
And then some of the cream cheese got stuck to the knife.
So I was like shaking the knife
to get it off the knife.
Instead of going down into the wrap,
it went up and like landed in my laundry basket
in my laundry.
Well, surely it only like, what'd you do?
I have to check it out.
How does your laundry taste?
I like cheesy.
Cheesy.
Like just discount Philadelphia.
I don't know if they're going to know that.
We have Philadelphia over here.
No, you don't.
I knew that.
You don't look there.
Don't.
Shut the fuck up.
When I said they, I meant chat.
Cause chat are mostly just from one place.
I know this is true.
Do you like Philadelphia?
I love drunk rags.
Also high rags.
Oh, hello.
Senpai rags.
Please notice my boner density.
Your boner density is most impressive.
Rags, who's your dealer?
My dealer?
I guess you'd be a dealer.
I don't know.
Mazda, I guess.
Holy crap.
Rags had like one beer and he's totally smashed.
He's like a college chick.
I'm not sure if it's spread lies.
Yeah, it was like two beers.
Fucking hell.
Yeah, I don't even know actually.
Spread three, minimum three, minimum three.
Whoa.
And I had one some other time.
I mean, I'm jealous in a way because like three beers,
I'd need like fucking 12 beers before I'd be getting drunk.
I've been drinking this whole really big beer.
I don't understand.
That's...
No, you're the weird one.
I'm sorry.
I've been drinking this whole night now.
I'm just like, yeah, whatever.
Rags, how heavy are you?
Seven.
I'm not that heavy.
I'm pretty normal weighted, I guess.
Probably heavier than me.
Maybe.
Probably.
You look like a fucking stick with a big nose.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
That's offensive.
You're like Mupa.
He's like a twig.
Mupa?
I'm a Mupa.
I weigh 17 kilograms.
What weird measurement would you like it in?
Let me zoom on your ugly face.
Oh my God.
He nailed us.
We fucking got wrecked.
Yes, yes.
You fuck.
What happened?
Did something bite off your toes?
I forget, don't worry.
Don't proceed.
Were you gonna say something
and then you were like, fuck, I've forgotten.
Is that what happened?
Kind of.
All right, well, I mean, that's fair.
If you remember what Rags is gonna say, let us know.
I think you said it.
You said, I fuck.
Oh, sorry, right.
Yeah, no, I agree.
It's a drunk fuck.
Sorry, drunk fuck.
I can get a boner.
Oh, I'm drunk.
Good.
Have you just confirmed this?
No, no.
I knew, like I knew.
I think this whole time, it just.
Trust me, it sounded like going, oh, I can.
Well, you know, Rags, you can do whatever he wants
while he's fapping, you know?
Yeah.
They get the old whiskey dick.
Flippin' and floppin', I don't like liquor.
Maybe it's a liquor thing.
Oh, boy, this is gonna be a long night.
At a curiosity moment, what editing software do you use
to make your videos?
Greetings from Cardiff.
Hello.
That would be Sony Vegas 16, is what I currently use.
You're using 16, I'm using 15.
Well, you're in the fuckin' past, aren't you?
Jesus Christ.
Grow up, God.
Oh, wait, I guess it's true.
Ralph said we were teens.
I'm using 11.
Oh.
Which isn't a teen.
It makes sense.
He's like the youngest one here.
In Ragspeak, oh, my God, an efap stream.
I get to catch live praise the dawn, also high rags.
Hello.
You gave classes but no races?
I guess so.
I'm an elf.
I am a Gandalf.
I don't know, I wanna be an orc,
but I don't feel like I fully represent an orc
very well physically, I think I'm closer to an elf.
What makes you say that?
I'd say you're more like a goblin.
My size and shape.
You're kinda goblin-like.
Goblin-ish, yeah.
You're kinda like a goblin.
Press one in chat for Jay to be a goblin.
You're kinda like a goblin, Jay.
Like a good goblin.
Oh, cheers, man.
You're like the tutorial goblin.
It's like, push forward on the stick to go forward.
The first one in chat is from Rags.
Listen, does anyone remember
like an old animated kid movie
called The Princess and the Goblins?
Anyone here?
The goblin slayer.
No, no.
Sounds vaguely familiar, honestly.
Yeah, so the thing is like the goblins
invaded and everything, but their weakness was singing.
If you sang, then the goblins would cover their ears
and like, ah, I hate this.
It's terrible, and they'd run away.
So if in chat, just confirm that this was a thing.
I need to know that I wasn't the only one who knows this
because I don't know if this was like popular or not.
The Princess and the Goblins?
Someone says, yes, they remember.
There we go, yeah, man.
Star Wars Girl says, yeah, yeah.
Ah, man.
Could Jay have been one of those goblins,
or are they too handsome?
There was like a fucking goblin king,
and he had red hair, and he had a fucking asshole.
Oh.
That does sound like me.
Wow, I gotta Google it.
Princess.
Oh my God, Rags has had one millilite,
and he's incoherent.
What a lightweight.
Yes, that's what he looked like.
He was a fucking asshole.
I mean, I can see how you would say that looks like Jay,
but it's still kind of harsh to the goblin.
Oh my goodness.
Look at the, look at these, look at these characters.
I can't, I can't, I haven't seen this in years.
Well, look at it, look at their faces.
Look at all their faces.
Oh, he has pink hair in that one.
I nearly made my hair pink once, but then I didn't.
This is such a blast from the past.
Jeez.
Anyway, move on.
I was just taking a trip down.
As ma'am.
Nostalgia street.
Hail hate mongers.
How goes the objectivity war?
So, you know, just fine, just fine.
That's of course.
Can't just say seven to everything.
That's illegal.
Seven.
Seven.
You just said seven to you saying
you can't say seven to everything.
What are you gonna do about that, Jay?
Well, that wasn't everything, was it?
So, fuck you, you fucking idiot.
That's not what I said, you deaf goblet.
Seven.
Six.
I can't say that, that's illegal.
Four.
No.
I don't know.
Uninstalled Lego Star Wars.
Not happened.
Probably.
Good.
Well, cause I want to review it.
Can we have an Ewatch hentai now?
Oh no.
He had an ice cream.
This is a weird one.
It says, hey Ralph, it's me, Joker.
Can't punt the gun.
Okay.
I agree with that.
I guess not.
Rags is like the kid in high school
that comes to the party, drinks one beer
and does a swan dive off the roof into the pool,
then drunk dials 911 and passes out in the gutter out front.
It's not true.
It's not true.
Let's say that.
Your streams are always listed, you Nazis.
No, they're not.
They're always unlisted.
All of them are unlisted.
This should be the Bula channel, in which case
they're supposed to be listed.
They're supposed to be listed.
And the active streams are totally supposed to be listed.
That makes the sense.
I think.
Did any of you guys watch Tolkien?
No Oscar nominations, but still a great
and accurate telling of JRR's life.
Oh.
Well, I think I'm pretty sure the Tolkien estate
like disavowed that film or something.
Someone asks what Wolf thinks of it.
And he answers that question in the video we recorded.
So when that's out, you will get your answer.
Cause me and Rags don't know fucking much of anything
about that movie.
Every movie has dreamlike logic.
Erase ahead and marriage story are equally dreamlike.
This review has nightmare like logic.
I agree.
Is King Emperor Penguin on your list
of potential future guests?
His military analysis of films from the Hobbit
to the Star Wars films are awesome.
I don't think he is, but it's always open.
Possibilities.
Rags plus three beers equals crying face, laughing face.
Go to bed Rags.
Jay just died because you suggested
that Rags go to bed.
Oh my God, Jay, did you,
how much cream cheese did you drop?
All of it.
Jay, just be honest.
I think he's dead.
Died.
Long, don't live Jay.
He did the final kick.
Hey, Moolah, why are you so much gayer than Rag?
I mean, you just sometimes you can't hide it.
What can I say?
Is Rags hamming it up or is he on the Alcatisms?
I don't feel like I'm, I feel,
I feel like it's hammy.
You've insulted Rags on her.
Hi, Rags, have another beer, please.
No, I really can't.
Rags is the girl at the party that drinks one beer
and then continuously vomits into the toilet
as you hold her head back and say,
it'll be all right, honey.
It's not true.
It's not true.
In Maleficent 2, there's a gas chamber scene.
The fairies equal metaphor for the Jews.
Responsible for all the problems,
there is noble pixie doing war crime experiments
on his kind.
What the fuck, Disney?
I know.
Disney are weird.
What can I say?
Why can't I just arrive back to you?
You've missed it, Jay.
I can't just repeat a super chat.
Jesus Christ, what is this?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Oh, I remember to chat with you.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Oh, I remember to check Ralph for weapons
before you let him on Efap.
Oh yeah, we'll get Robert De Niro to do it.
He's our little like doorman.
Love the drunk doggo.
Drink rags, drink.
Yum, yum, yum.
Drink, drink, drink.
Cause when I was,
when I had that meetup with top hats
and everything in Houston,
man, we had a great time.
It was great.
We had fun and everything went really well.
It was great.
I'm good to hang out with.
I'm a good guy to hang out with.
Well, I mean, as long as you have like 102 Bs,
you probably are great to hang out with.
No, I had like, no, no, I had like four big ones, right?
Whoa.
You know?
No.
Shut the fuck up.
Whoa.
And we had a great time.
And I was, it was really good.
And it was fine.
Fuck I grew up in the hotel room.
Oh no, it wasn't a good time at all.
Well, not, not the end,
but then you get it over with and you're like,
man, I feel great.
Love all y'all's videos.
It's really taught me to be critical of films
regardless of whether or not I enjoy them.
And I appreciate good films so much more now.
Has anyone seen 1917 and any thoughts?
I've seen it.
We did that already.
Yeah, we, we, we have talked about it.
It's very good.
Yes, it's very good.
Go see it.
Hey, Mueller.
Just wanted to say,
the Twitter trolls get to you.
Small-minded people will always be fearful of logic
and always remember Twitter is not real life.
Also, hi, Rags.
Hello. Yes, Twitter is definitely not real life.
There are real people on there, I suppose,
but there's also fake people.
That's the last title, that's the last title.
Do do do do do.
I shall see you fellows later.
All right.
Goodbye.
I love every time Rags says, oh my God.
Ah, also hi, Rags.
Hello.
Also, Mueller.
What is your favorite scene from Tommy Wiseau's The Room?
Why do I have to choose?
That's not fair.
The whole thing is a masterpiece.
And I don't want to go, I guess I just,
like how do I avoid?
Probably the shop scene,
just because there's so much to talk about
in terms of its construction.
Just that, that rampant, horrifying audio editing
as well as just the, the entire setup.
The whole thing is wonderful in terms of talking about,
but that, you know, you got so much to choose from.
So much to choose from.
In fact, I should probably rewatch that film
because it's a wonderful, The Room.
Just so good.
Such an excellent film.
I don't even know if we could do it for you fat movies
because it's been watched by like everybody.
You know what I mean?
Good dog.
Dog, Satan, Rhino and Bearded Pepe.
Slender man in a gas mask.
At this point, this podcast could be one of the all
universes, TV and Rick and Morty.
I can believe it.
I heard they're doing three Joker origin movies.
No way.
That's your liar.
Three origin movies.
Origin.
That's how you're supposed to pronounce that.
Like orange.
Shut up.
Oh.
I took Joker shooting De Niro.
It was him embracing who he really is.
Joker gives up on people and chooses to be just as awful
as he perceives the others.
I think that's a fair assessment.
Clone Wars is objectively better than the sequel trilogy.
Ahsoka is also one of the best Star Wars characters.
Shame she's dead now.
It makes me sad.
Yeah.
The Wars haven't really gone.
Yeah.
She can just come back.
In fact, the best way to get someone to come back right now
is probably just blow them up on a Death Star
because that is like a guarantee.
Andrew Clavin said Joker was a better taxi driver.
Dun, dun, dun.
Better taxi driver.
They're too different for me to say.
Like one is a better that one than the other one, you know?
But okay.
Is Cancer Girl's Pussy Smooth?
Oh.
At least they spelled it with dollar signs
but that almost wakes you with...
Cancer Girl?
Well, because you're selling that purse.
Yes, you're putting the purse on the market, as they say.
Disgusting.
Yeah.
Weird super chat, but all right.
I'm surprised that got through the checks.
Interesting.
Yeah, spelling, spelling, selling,
selling pussy with dollar signs.
Spelling pussy with dollar signs doesn't seem like...
I'm sorry, what?
You just said like four times
and I didn't understand any of them.
Spelling pussy with dollar signs
doesn't seem like it would get...
Spelling pussy with dollar signs.
Doesn't seem like a way to get it through
because it seems like such an obvious way to do it.
Mm-hmm.
Yes.
It's like, hey, this thing that looks exactly like an ass,
let's use...
Well, I'm sure whatever he was trying to say was important.
It's probably really sexy.
Wait, am I still cutting out?
No, we got all of that.
Yeah, every part of it.
And we agree, every word of it.
It does not stand on its own as a drama.
Awful.
I guess I wasn't just reviewing that statement.
You can't put apostrophes there.
You tell them, Raga-ziz-ziz-ziz.
Ralph's a tool, the end.
Good story.
I was invested in the characters.
Happy E-Fapping lads, love you all.
Love you too, sir.
Rah, get your tallest roof,
making it 100 stories taller than Chuck Ralph
into the same abyss that Ryan Johnson chucked JJ's notes into.
Chuck Ralph.
That sounds like a character in a movie.
Ralph Chuckman, Chuck Ralphman.
Ralph Chuckman.
Chuck Ralph.
I miss Wolf, he'd tear this Ewok a new brown table.
What?
Oh my goodness.
Oh my God, I actually managed to be around for a live E-Fap.
Keep on fapping, you magnificent bastards.
Keep on fapping.
You know what?
I think we might just do that.
I can only wrap three white women or else I'll be racist.
I guess.
Word, wrap.
Wrap three.
What does that mean?
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm curious.
W-R-A-P?
No, R-A-T-P-E-3.
You can't give people as gifts.
You have to buy them.
Yes.
This video reminds me so much
of the PK Russell Has Been Hotel video.
No actual arguments, just a pretentious asshole
saying it's juvenile and childish.
Well, he would know better than you
because he likes Citizen Kane.
Oh my God, they didn't even find it boring.
Well, only a moron would find that boring.
Yeah, not him.
3.5 stars for 1917.
Heresy, rah, forget the roof.
Stamp him into a nuke and then launch it at the black hole.
Oh, wow.
Wait, I'd check that out
if they made like a rendition of it.
Pretty cool.
Explode it right before it hits the black hole
just to see what things happen.
All the lights.
Uh, www.autismspeaks.org.
Okay.
Yeah, have you ever heard an autistic prison talk?
That's racist.
Jay's right there, dude.
Wow.
I got him.
Mola, where should I go to send a meme?
To the post office.
Which, post office.
Post office.
Post office.
Try Twitter, the subreddit, the Discord.
Hopefully I will catch it in and among those things.
I don't catch everything, I'm afraid.
Hi Rags, off to see 1917 and hoping it's good.
Hey, I'm sorry, I meant to say hello.
Minute one, determining the objective values and flaws
inherent in cinema and debate.
Just discuss subjective feelings
based on factual evidence.
Minute two, is it possible to pee while fapping?
God, I love you, Fab.
That's the kind of discussion that's required
to really crack the proverbial nut of philosophy
and understanding the nature.
That's how you practice that smooth stroke
and you start pissing in the toilet.
If you are in that.
That's a boring place to piss.
And then you just.
But you're not pissing, you're not pissing in the toilet.
No, I can go outside, I don't piss or I.
Oh yeah, right.
Live, I don't nasty.
But you can do that.
And you can just go for it,
but you can't get a drop outside of the toilet.
Ralph is friendly with Quentin, AKA,
the personification of the communist work ethic.
It makes sense that Ralph would make such a lazy video
and also snipe at you in such a passive aggressive way.
Oh my God.
I'm willing to not assume anything.
I'm sure that ending was just funsies.
Like a winky dink.
Mupa is a well-realized multi-dimensional character.
Mupa is short, man.
Shotman bad.
Irax, how much have you had to drink this stream?
Oh, sorry.
I'm sorry.
Let me look.
I don't want to say.
Irax.
2000 what a space Odyssey is a mostly boring film.
So much of that film is just dragged out scenes.
How and beyond is where the interesting things happen.
No, you're just dumb.
You think it's boring.
I have it on good authority from Ralph, the movie man.
What a moron.
He couldn't find a space Odyssey entertainer.
Fucking moron.
Yeah, Ron.
I watched Citizen Kane three times and I wasn't bored.
This means I have the uber smartisms, right?
Bow before me peasants.
Also Lechaim drunk rags.
Hello.
But Jeez, you look like, well, I mean like,
I mean not like in a lucky way,
but you seem like a smart man.
Yes.
Two, I are a dumb.
Okay.
Never saw 2001, what happens?
That's about how a series of apes attack a spaceship
and they eventually create an AI.
Yes.
Rise of the planet of the howl.
Yes.
Also just a fun side bit.
I can't wait for the Efav discussion about the prequels.
I think that you guys will gain a new appreciation for them.
Bomb, bomb, bomb.
It's possible.
I'm sorry, Jay.
I'm afraid you can't have that opinion.
Halbus Beginnius, AKA Sans is in Smash.
He is in Smash and there's good.
How to deconstruct your channel in one video.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, he'll be fine,
but he probably pissed off a couple of people for sure.
Love you guys.
You really, what was that rags?
What the fuck?
What?
I said one or two.
Two.
So how many you've had to drink?
That is not.
How, that's a lie, Jay.
How could you possibly imply such lies?
That's fucked up.
Probably three.
Love you guys.
You've really inspired me to improve my writing.
Hi, Mola.
Hi, Rag.
And then it just says Jay.
Oh, I will respond in turn by not saying anything.
Very well.
Have rags Sauron.
I guess they're saying like Sauron have rags.
I don't know.
I've never met.
I've never met Sauron.
We've never even spoken in a casual way online.
I guess he's busy running his army,
being an eyeball.
Just being an eye.
It's a lot of work.
You laugh now, but
my pop said Joker was boring.
Oh, your pop is a more.
No way.
You're probably allowed to say that one's boring
because that's a bad.
Yeah, if you say the Joker is boring,
it means you're really smart
because you picked up on the fact
that it is definitely boring.
Well, there's other things
that you think might be boring.
They're not.
2001 Space Odyssey.
It's basically, it's just action thriller
all the way through.
Just an onstop thrill ride.
It's a roller coaster of intensity.
Also Jay is God.
Neat.
Yeah.
Didn't you know that?
What's the difference between aluminum and aluminium?
Servant.
Right.
Pronunciation.
Aluminium.
Not allow manium.
Both of those sound weird.
Mola, pronounce terra hort.
Pronounce terra hort?
Okay.
Indiana.
Terra hort Indiana.
Terra hort?
Terra hort.
Never saw king of comedy.
What happens?
So it's medieval.
Why are there?
It's about the,
it's like a bunch of sort of groups of different tribes
trying to dominate and it's a comedy obviously.
And a guy uses like telling jokes
and fucking around with people to become the king.
The halfway through the film, he loses it.
And then by the end,
they realized that they don't need a king.
They realized at the end of the film
that the real comedy was friends they made along the way.
There you go.
Aluminium was the original way it was written down
by the discoverer,
but the science circles thought of it sounded dumb.
So they added an I.
The Americans adopted it to use less ink.
To use less ink.
Okay.
I.
Seems like a funny way to say that.
I don't think that I buy that.
You don't have to buy it.
It's like, let's change the name of an element
to save a little money on ink.
It's like, I don't know.
Sounds like something you guys would do.
Like, oh, let's have lots of slaves
and then have a war to figure out
whether a slavery is bad.
I don't know.
And they did that whole independence thing,
which was pretty rude, IMO.
Yeah.
I'm glad that lead was short.
So you could write a lot and use it for your war.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right then.
Tap, tap, tap, tap, tap.
This says he's something-ing,
camera-ing.
It kind of looks like a camera remote.
I'm not sure.
Camera?
He's camera-ing.
Canning.
Books that came with the,
this was meant to be sent to you, Rags.
It's the Princess and the Goblin.
Oh my goodness.
Is that the, oh my goodness.
Is that the record?
I suppose it do.
The Princess and the Goblin.
That Princess and the Goblin.
So I don't, it's, oh, I can't tell for scale.
I don't know how big her hands are.
Is that like a DVD release or is that the record?
You put it on your record player
and you can listen to the Princess and the Goblin.
Man, just got a big hand if that's a record.
Judging by all those books in the background,
that's probably a book.
A book?
That's some fucking bullshit.
It says the fully animated feature film.
If you put that on a book,
that kid's gonna buy that and open it up
and be like, what the shit?
This isn't a film.
Fuck you.
This is what it's like to have a life.
It's like, there aren't any pictures in here.
The Princess and the Cock Goblin.
There's also bullshit.
Cock, what was the, oh, I forgot that.
Remind me of the thing.
Why don't we have to remind you all the time?
You keep saying stuff.
He said something like this,
the thing about this cock.
Like, what was the quote?
Cock.
You know what, thinking about it,
one of them has to be as a result of the fucking trimming
because that's, there's, it's just no way.
Like, nobody would leave that in.
That's just the only way he'd leave that in.
It's a book.
The book says it's a film, though.
The book says it's a film.
Who do you trust, the book or the human?
I can't believe that book lied to me.
The book lied to me.
Takes a lot of fucking nerve for a book to lie to me.
That's a pretty, pretty bold ass book
for a thing within match distance.
I fucking love ass books.
And I do.
Happy Australia Day.
If you like bad movies, you're a bad person
and you should feel bad.
Oh man.
My bad movie I like is X-Men The Last Stand.
When Wolverine kicks the dude in the balls
and says, grow those back, classic.
So silly, but yes.
Speak more in French, please.
Merci.
Oui.
Oui.
Ho, ho, ho.
Como tu t'appelle ragu?
Ha, ha, linguine.
All right, Ragu, I will ask you the question again
and then I'll get you the correct answer, okay?
Yeah.
Oui.
Malia is tapping in the discard.
I'll ask the question.
Como en tu t'appelle?
Uh, Je m'appelle ragu.
Nailed it, there you go.
We spoke French.
We did it.
Why don't we go back to French?
Is this for la fromage?
Probably.
La fromage.
No, this is la fromage, oui.
Ho, ho, ho.
Linguine is a talent you hack.
Linguine.
That's like your opinion.
A spaghetti.
If you like bad quality things, you're a deep sheet.
A deep sheet.
A deep what?
A deep sheet?
I would have preferred that to be deep sheave.
Deep sheave.
Ratatouille has a better script
and world building than The Last Jedi.
I agree.
Yeah, that's true.
Like, it's a very good film.
There are about 70 different cheese types in France,
so our cook will have quite the assortment to choose from,
also high rafts.
What?
Yeah.
High rafts.
That's a lot of stupid shit.
Rats?
Rafts.
Rafts.
Was that just a short book of the Fs next to the G?
Well, I think it's supposed to be a comment on Ralph,
but wouldn't they have called it high Ralph?
But...
No, the F is just next to the G.
I think that's what happened.
No, it's not an F, it's a P-H.
Oh.
Oh yeah, it's probably about Ralph.
Rafts.
Yeah, all right.
In all honesty, I always thought Ralph was pretentious.
Now I know it for sure.
Dun, dun, dun, dun.
What's your favorite portrayal of Bruce Wayne slash Batman?
Mine's David Mizzou's The Kid in Gotham.
I really liked Ben Affleck,
I just wanted him to have better scripts.
I think my favorite's probably Michael Keaton though.
Michael Keaton.
Yeah.
Can I say like the 2004, the Batman?
I pissed everyone off.
2004's The Batman?
Yeah, it was like a cartoon.
Oh, okay.
It's really fun.
I love that show.
I like Adam West.
Optia, Batman.
Adam West.
DC has Dogwelder Man,
a man whose power is to weld dogs to people's faces.
Is that true?
It's a very...
There's lots of ways you can use that power.
Dogwelder, New Earth.
Oh my God.
Dogwelder was a member of Section 8
while the team was on high at the...
Dogwelder spent his time trapping
and killing dogs in alleyways.
Oh my God, what is this?
To help fight Marzia's henchmen,
Dogwelder was vaporizing killed with Section 8
fought the many angled ones.
What the fuck did I just read?
Dogwelder Man.
Is this called Dogwelder?
He was succeeded by Dogwelder number two.
When can we get a Dogwelder in Steam?
We need that movie in the Joker universe.
Equipment, welding equipment, weapons and dogs.
Dogwelder welds dogs to people.
The second part of the Superchess is
the Joker sequel should be a character study
of Dogwelder Man, I agree.
Props to you guys for getting through this shit fuck
of a video, except you, Jay.
Shit fuck.
A little to the defense fund
to help Jay keep safe from them assassins.
Wait, what?
A reference to your game stream or something.
Might be, I don't know, I remember something like that.
I want to point out that one of the most popular
manga anime right now is Boku no Hero Academia.
My Hero Academia.
This show pretty much single-handedly revived
the superhero genre for the Weeb community.
Ooh, Weebz.
That's pronounced Webz, but yeah.
Webz.
Webz.
Kick Loud Rhino Milk Boy.
Wait.
Well, did you have the word Webz where you are?
I don't think so.
Oh.
Anyone in chat, does anyone in chat know what Webz means?
They all said no.
Oh.
This guy is actually pissing me off.
Fuck my TROS video.
I'm gonna make a response to this.
What an absolute knuckle-dragging moron.
How did anyone find quality in this?
Oh my God.
I mean, it was pretty funny.
What more likes than dislikes?
It was funny though.
Well, this is the thing.
He has a lot of good faith.
Like, I think that loads of people,
and this is okay by the way, I'm not judging.
I think a lot of people when he releases a video
will hit like and then watch it.
And that's fine.
But the more, if he was to release like five of these
in a row, that would probably destroy his channel
in terms of credibility.
But I'm sure-
Anyone.
Well, yeah, obviously I guess that applies to anyone.
I'm saying it would actually probably take-
Unless that's the brand.
If Bob did that, then everyone.
Yeah, that's what Bob does.
I was gonna say like, he's got really good.
He's got a good standing as far as I know.
So he just needs to not do that again.
Oh, did you see Sean telling Bob to shut up?
I did.
I liked, I think I retweeted that.
I thought it was funny as hell.
The fact that he said, hey, Bob,
and he went, question mark?
Yeah, question mark.
Shut up.
Shut up.
Darn it.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Rags, when is your next video coming out?
Oh, probably not too long.
All right.
I don't know, I don't like, I don't have a date.
August 2020?
Hey, you said the same thing I did.
Well done.
That means you say good things.
Is it any wonder why SedonaCast is losing viewers
and eFap is gaining viewers?
Why am I should ditch the Chuds
and hang out with the cool kids?
As far as I know, they do it fine.
Where are the cool kids?
And they don't do a live version.
Maybe they would get more engagement if they did.
I don't know, but I'm sure they're doing fine.
Is it realistic to say that it's like,
probably like an hour of super chats left?
Well, you don't have to stay.
I can reveal that to you if you would really like to know.
I mean, I was just asking if it's gonna take super long
because I'm pretty tired, to be honest.
Of the super chats of this stream,
could be just over an hour, yeah.
Oh my God.
I'm not gonna stay up another hour, I'm tired.
Very well.
Would you like to leave nows?
Yeah, I shall peace out and go to the beds and the...
Before you go, bait your video
that you're totally making right now
and not just baiting everybody with.
I'm not baiting, I'm actually doing the video.
Yeah, okay.
Shwap, oh my God.
Start with the visuals.
I have no idea how long that's gonna take me
because I have no idea what I'm doing.
So it's gonna be great.
Yeah, it's gonna be on a channel that doesn't exist yet.
It's gonna be on a whole new channel.
There was some people were like,
is it gonna upload it on Twitch or YouTube?
It's like, YouTube.
Yeah, people were asking, it's like, it's gonna Twitch.
You can technically do, I'm actually,
I'm not even sure if you can,
I just straight up upload on there now,
but what you can do,
because I think you should probably do it,
you may as well like stream the video once you've made it.
And then obviously as long as it's good for copyright
and then you can highlight it as a big chunk, right?
Yeah, I can do that.
It will be on your Twitch channel,
but also put it on YouTube because that would be stupid.
Absolutely, yeah, that sounds good to me.
But yeah, thank you for joining us, Metal-tism.
Sure, always.
And I'll catch you, I'll probably catch you tomorrow.
We can edit together because I'm currently editing too.
Yeah, sounds good.
I shall probably still be idle and chat
and just follow Steven at that or something.
That's a normal place to fall asleep.
Yeah, no, it's not that weird, honestly.
See you all around, bye.
Bye. Bye.
Fuckin' idiot, moron, teenager.
Got him.
14. What a racist son.
Thomas as he dies.
Son, I want you to dress up as a bat
and beat up that crazy clown guy, he's a Todd.
Right.
See, that's what the sequel bait was.
You guys missed the line.
What does it mean?
What does it mean?
I swear to God, they had the expectation
that in the middle of this story,
that Batman would jump out of nowhere and beat him to death.
You don't know that couldn't happen, you don't know.
Yeah.
You don't know.
That's a superhero movie.
Ralph.
It's a superhero somewhere.
Ralph is a 200 thread count deep sheet.
What is this deep sheet thing?
I gotta say, deep shit.
Like a large, like a towel.
Like a long poop.
Deep shit.
That's not, really?
That's a nice thing to say, Jay.
Yeah, I mean, I expect better from you, man.
I don't.
Why, you know me.
Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
Satan, what makes a good Spiderman adaptation?
Guess we can try and keep that for him.
He's fucking murdering rape and stealing.
No, you can't do this.
Dab it.
I found out the brown table really likes Homecoming
and hates Far From Home, by the way.
And he thinks that Far From Home kind of ruins Homecoming
in terms of it being a sequel.
Like it's not the sequel Homecoming deserved.
I was like, huh, I hadn't heard that take.
I didn't know anybody had that.
I understand it.
I can see, I can see how he got there.
Brown table is a fucking treasure.
You should come on, do you reckon he would?
I actually, I'm not sure.
He knows we'd be nice to him, right?
I think so, I don't know.
I wonder if he'd be up for covering people.
Has he, he's responded.
Has he responded to a video before?
Has he just responded to comments?
I don't know.
Is that supposed to be Jeb?
Oh, I get it.
You should Efap one of Ralph's, but we just did.
Right.
Remember the meme.
Mission accomplished, wish credit.
I was gonna say, yeah, that's the way
for a super chat to make a request
that we granted as the request was being made.
Wait, what was the request, sorry?
That we Efap to a Ralph video.
Oh, surely that happened after,
surely that super chat would have been sent
after the videos.
You don't know.
Cause we're, to the fromage,
as well that happened during the video.
You don't know.
Maybe this person just joined the stream,
hadn't looked at what we were covering
and then sent that.
Okay.
And.
Remember the meme of an anime of a guy saying,
is this a pigeon looking at a butterfly?
I mean, yeah, that's, that'll be perfect for,
is this supposed to be Alfred?
I hope Alfred reads this.
Was this video supposed to be good?
Every frame in Alfred.
Wanna know who's been predicting Disney
would make a live action remake of Bambi?
Me.
Oh, that is Bambi's next, yeah.
Really?
Are you shitting me?
Down goes Bambi.
Yeah, that one's been confirmed.
And by the way, Rags, I don't know if you knew this,
but guess who's writing it?
The person who wrote Captain Marvel.
What the fuck?
Yay, they're getting work.
You're gonna ruin the-
Dude, they are the right to the billion dollars.
No, that's the marketing team.
Nope, nope, nope.
That's not how they look at it.
Cause they're stupid.
They'll be like, this right is really good.
She's the little, I assume it's a girl
cause I think they wanted a female writer.
You're gonna ruin the characters of animals
don't even talk.
Wow, you have to justify it when you say she,
but never feel the need to just hear.
Yeah, cause there's more male screenwriters
than there are women's.
No.
I've proven this with science.
I looked into it.
I just think that you're a sexism man.
Sexism man is a superhero,
so I feel like you just complimented me.
Probably is, and it'd be Captain Positives superhero.
Captain Nazi world's Nazis to your face.
Is this Sith tag is supposed to be Alfred?
For real though, is this Alfred?
I figure I should have expected it.
It's like Dave Chappelle thing all over again.
No, it's bad.
It's just boring.
And it didn't make me interested or laugh.
Go die.
I've seen better videos defending TLJ.
Yeah, I guess we should have asked that question.
How does it rank across the Efap people
we've covered ranked?
Cinematic universe.
Yeah, good.
This one's pretty bad.
Because it turns into our maliciousness
where he's just being bitter and insulting the people.
Where would you arbitrarily sort of scored as a number
if you were to think of all of Efap's covered videos
as a one to 10 scale, or zero to 10?
With zero being very, very good
with a 10 to be very, very good.
I guess I meant the reverse of that,
but it doesn't really matter
as long as you're telling me what 20 to be.
No, we could really do that.
We could do where zero is really bad and it's really good.
I guess some people do that.
Two, one.
Wow.
Because it's like nothing bad.
On the Efap scale.
I was gonna say I give him like a four out of 10.
Really?
I think it's like a two.
I think five is generous.
Come on, Jay.
Five is fucking generous.
Like, do you think this is an average video?
Not average video, but like on average Efap coverage video,
like the best one would be like, what, Sarah Z's fly one?
Are the ones that we're promoting count or do they not?
No, they don't count.
No.
Probably is Sarah Z's video.
What else was good?
It's tunneled.
Oh yeah.
Unironically, it's one of the best videos we've covered.
It's hard to know for sure, but it wasn't very good.
This is exceptional.
I feel like one of the stupidest things
in life is pretty bad.
People are gonna start using, unironically it's become...
It's bad.
Unironically, it's becoming such a popular word
that I feel like people are gonna start using it
like literally to not mean the thing that it means.
Oh, you mean like,
cause unironically means that you're not fucking around,
but then they might use it when they're fucking around
just to make it sound like funner.
I am unironically dying right now.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think you're right.
I think you're right.
Great, we just found another word that's dying.
Ironically dying.
I'm unironically gonna use unironically.
Unironically, that's all I have to say.
This is exceptional.
Seems like all of Ralph wants is for a movie
to scream at him incoherently
while flashing a strobe light that's exceptional.
Possibly.
Yeah, I'm thinking the theme is so deep,
its meaning is so magical.
We've been making...
It's both my soul.
We've been making Batman movies for 60 years.
I wouldn't describe Joker as a Batman film.
While it is set in the Batman universe,
I'm not sure that it's a Batman film,
as Ralph said in the video.
Yeah, it's a bit weird.
If the classification is, it's a part of the Batman IP,
I'd be like, oh.
So when do we get the Hot Dogler movie?
The Batman IP.
There is a DC character named Dogwelder
who welds dogs to people.
Someone else wanted to tell us about that, huh?
Wow, it's strange that there's extremely specific characters
popping up twice.
It's so good.
I hate how people give this mediocre singer
more credit as an actor than he deserves.
Jared Leto isn't good guys, like at all.
I mean, I think I was seeing him in some stuff
I thought he was pretty good in.
I can't name it because I can't remember, but no.
He didn't, he wasn't bad in Fight Club.
He didn't have to do much, but he was there.
The problem with, I feel like most people don't think
that it's his acting that's failing in Suicide Squad.
It's this weird fucking character that they...
Yeah, he's doing really weird stuff,
but you don't not believe it.
Like, he's portraying a fucking weird-ass
cringe lord gangster really well.
Yeah.
It's like the things that are bad about it are the ideas.
Some good cunt left some dollar redos.
Have some more.
Be good, motherfuckers.
Why, thank you.
Thank you too much for the dollar, dude.
He said cunt in a super chat.
Yep.
Wow.
And motherfuckers, both of them are just fine.
Jeez.
Wow, YouTube, you're not protecting me.
You can fuck your mom, but don't rape anyone.
That makes sense.
I mean, I would say that fucking your mom is...
Yes, fucking your mom is better than raping someone, yeah.
Unless you rape your mom.
Oh my God.
Yeah, I'd say that's worse on balance
than just raping someone.
If it's someone related to you, that makes it worse,
because incest is like an additional bad.
Icky.
Is this supposed to be what you brought me?
Yes.
Is this stream supposed to be Alfred, all my Ewoks?
That's also yes.
Has anyone seen Battlestar Galactica, thoughts?
I have not.
I have not.
I've seen like two episodes.
I thought they seemed good, and I might watch this.
I think they seemed good, and I might watch the rest
at some point.
You know more about it than we do, how does that feel?
Great.
I'll enjoy it while it lasts.
James.
I don't remember death comes to time than you.
I'm gonna get you to watch that one day.
That doesn't even make sense, death comes to time.
How does time die?
That's stupid.
Tell him all that he needs to watch death comes.
We'll watch it, and you'll find out.
No, I disagree with the premise,
therefore I can never consume the content.
Chat, anyone, if like the three, the one person in chat,
you know that you've seen it, tell them I'm good at this.
All right, fine.
Read spy X family, good tism.
Very well.
Give this to Jay, also kick him.
Jay, you okay with being kicked?
Oh yeah, I love being kicked.
Supposed to say, please don't do it, captain.
Please don't do it, is this part of the role play?
Oh, fuck it.
Is it a role?
Oh, please don't kick me, I would hate to be kicked.
Unironically?
Oh, kick me.
I would, unironically, hate to be kicked.
Hot dog la art sent your way.
Oh, I assume that's the thing that we put on screen.
That was good art, you did well.
Someone just says hoes mad, right?
You're laughing, Rags has died, and you're laughing.
You came back.
I came back.
Resurrected, to the power of tism.
I have arisen.
Hi, Rags, are you related to Rags the dog from World War I?
I don't know, maybe.
Ralph is in no fucking position to say you're being toxic.
Have you seen his Bye Bye Man review?
He was so toxic to people who liked the video.
Like the movie, I mean, or?
Yeah, it wouldn't surprise me.
A lot of the really altruistic principles
that are drawn in some of these videos
are just like, oh, just look at their old stuff.
They don't believe it, or at least they didn't then.
And it's not usually like Bye Bye Man
was two years ago, right, I think?
But who knows?
Perhaps he's old as a critic.
We all need to.
Did you know that Ralph did brand sins at one point?
Brand sins.
Wait, he did that?
That was a channel, CinemaSins started it.
It was to make fun of brands.
It was really weird.
Hang on, I'm gonna see if he,
nothing's coming up for...
Yeah, I can't.
I'm not getting results that apply, but...
So I don't know that well what he looks like, so...
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Chet, what videos did he do?
So that was my first Super Chat, so I messed up.
I meant to say I'm currently watching episode 46
at 1.25 speeds, so much long men to get through.
Have fun seeing you 100 hours or so.
We'll see you then.
Moop Man Bad.
Fucking Moopa.
Hey, Moopa, not sure if my previous Super Chat
went through, was wondering if you guys had any thoughts
on Captain Christian making fun of my face.
Hi, Rags.
Who's Captain Christian?
I am.
Jay, you're supposed to know these things.
I'm Captain Christian.
It was me all along.
It could be Dionis.
It was Earth all along.
I'm afraid I don't know these things.
Also, I just said hi, Rags, and Rags has not responded.
What happens?
Ola Rag.
I guess I'll write it down and make sure to say it
once he's back.
Rags!
Speaking of not being back, I'm gonna hop out here.
Oh, all right.
What?
No, it just seemed out of no way, but okay.
Would you like to flunk your channel?
Yeah, I have a channel, bye.
It's good, you should go watch it.
Don't watch it, it's really bad.
What have you got coming out soon?
1917 review, LEGO Star Wars video.
Wait, you're reviewing LEGO Star Wars?
I'm reviewing LEGO Star Wars.
But why?
I don't know, it seems like a fun thing to do.
It's not kind of like super old.
Nobody reviews things that are old, it's racist.
I don't care.
Okay.
Bye.
Bye.
Okay, I'm posting his tismy channel in chat.
And now I am officially alone,
though Rags is in here in spirit.
Okay.
I'm here.
Hello.
What?
You missed Jay running away and a high Rags.
Oh, hello to the person who said hello Rags.
Hello to you.
Mupa confirmed anti-mauler, confirmed 2020 arc.
I would say so.
Uber.
Drunk Rags.
I hate long pause as he thinks about whether or not
it's worth to say the N-word for the joke, Cubans.
Oh, I didn't even think about saying that.
Of course not.
That would be-
No, I really didn't, I really didn't.
That would be disgusting.
The fact that none of you remember what Bane posting is,
is infuriating.
Bane was a huge meme back when the Darknet Rises came out.
Just Google it.
I mean.
Okay.
I believe you.
Yeah, I'll believe you too.
I don't really disbelieve such thing.
Hey, eFappers, doggos.
Would it be possible to get all of your opinions
on The Witcher show?
And would you be able to get Wolf's opinion on it
down the road?
Thank you, Massives.
So here's some good news and bad news.
The bad news is me and Rags haven't watched it yet,
so we got no opinions.
The good news is Wolf has watched it
and he talks about it for a decent chunk
in the recording that's gonna be coming out soon.
I'm not actually sure about when that'll be.
I'll talk more about that at the end of the stream,
I suppose.
Like, upcoming projects.
So when you guys gonna watch
the Elvis the Alien vid on you, Mauler?
We did, it's just not, not much happens in it.
Like, it's not much of a thing to respond to.
Yeah.
Give this $10 to Rags.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Just got back from the range of my first handgun
you inspired me to buy, a Sig Sauer P320X Compact.
Well, I hope you had a good time.
Hope you enjoyed it.
Hope you get better with practice.
Now, if I can ask, can you turn around
and wag your tail at me?
I'm doing it now.
It's just like the audio version of that
is not very exciting.
Yeah, I figure.
I've watched Ral for about a year now
and this Joker review was the first video
because I had serious problems with.
You're in for something.
Oh yes.
Oh yeah.
Hey, it's me.
Hello there.
Hi, Rags.
Hope I'm not a bother on the discord.
Long man passed this money onto Rags.
No problemo.
Who said it?
Cold Vermak or Warmack.
Oh, I think you're a bother on the discord.
I think so.
How about a movie on who killed the Waynes in Joker?
I don't know what that means.
How about a movie on who killed?
Do you mean like some kind of detective movie
going after the guy who did it?
The Joker Universal?
Yeah, detective, constable young vision
of Vector Gadget.
What's his name?
Did it?
Inspector Gadget.
Hey, remember, there was a,
there was a Specter Gadget movie
and Matthew Broderick played the Specter Gadget.
Yep, I remember that.
I watched that.
I'm the claw guy.
I remember that.
That happened.
Hello, All Might End.
Whoa, dang it.
I miss Wolf.
Followed him since his original channel was at 3K.
Hope he's doing well.
Whatever he may be.
Be well, you fab.
Yeah, he's doing well.
And you'll have got another, interestingly enough,
the way it's worked out,
like three, four, four and a half plus eight,
like another 12 and a half hours of wolf stuff
to come out that hasn't actually been made public yet.
So, there you go.
If Jar Jar fuck rags, would that be bestiality?
Yes, no, no.
Nah.
Nope.
Somehow video essayists have returned.
Oh, they didn't go anywhere.
They just keep on trucking.
With a dickus that bigus, he'll die of blood loss.
Oh yes.
Hello rags.
Hello.
What happened?
Did you finally realize DV is pregnant
with a half walrus lolly because of you?
It wasn't because of me,
it's because of his own promiscuity.
There were consequences to your actions
and he's discovering that.
I'm what you learned.
I don't know anything, it wasn't me.
Well, I'm saying, when will you learn to that creature?
When did our friendly neighborhood heroes
in Infinite Crisis bring the people they saved
to the place where time and space doesn't exist?
Or why didn't they?
I don't fucking know, guys.
There's nothing makes sense in that show,
as you'll find out in episodes four and five.
Not that you haven't figured that out already.
It's a weird one.
Great fan, love this podcast.
Reminds me of D&D for some reason, thanks.
Reminds you of Dan and Dave,
the writers of Game of Thrones, what the fuck?
Or Dungeons and Dragon.
Pretty sure it's pronounced Dragoons.
Hey, Mauler, do you like dragons?
Uh, I would say yes and Heimer to that.
And how about,
nah.
Don't, don't, don't worry about it.
I like dragons too, they're cool.
It seemed like you had something there, but no.
No, I did, I'll save it for later.
Put that in my back pocket.
All right.
Why do they call Black Panther their movie?
I thought they already had their movies,
the Planet of the Apes series.
Wow, that's, that's a, that's a Disney right there.
YouTube won't let me speak the truth.
Well, you had to mute apes.
You got an asterisk on apes.
Wow.
I don't believe they block apes, they're not block cunts.
That makes no sense.
But then again, YouTube's pretty tizzly.
What are you guys's thoughts on the lighthouse?
I liked it.
I liked it too.
My movie is extremely allegorical.
I enjoyed watching the events despite having very little
to understand how they come together
and then thinking about it for a while after.
What was neat.
The acting is insanely good.
Yes, I think they take full advantage
of being in black and white and in four by three
with loads of really, really cool shots and colors.
I say colors, I guess I should say shading, I don't know.
But it takes advantage of a look
that isn't previously often seen.
I think it's tense.
I was gripped.
I liked it.
It says, I gotta say the more I think about it,
the more I hate it.
I get all the references to Greek mythology.
Frankly, I don't know how anyone could possibly miss them
with how ham-fisted they were,
but it ultimately feels like one
of the shitty high school essays I had to peer review
where the author would just string together platitudes
till he hit the word count requirement.
I haven't seen a more vapid, pretentious exploration
of male sexuality since Only God Forgives,
which is a real shame
because I actually really liked the witch.
I guess-
I really liked the witch too.
I guess I would agree that it's not subtle.
Yeah, some of it's really not subtle.
But I think it's one of those things
that if the acting wasn't so good,
if the like dialogue and stuff wasn't so insanely amazing,
then it would really have suffered a whole bunch.
I wouldn't have liked it if the,
like if Defoe and Pattinson weren't as good as they were,
I would have walked away
with a negative impression perhaps.
You should cover something you consider good
the way you do Batwoman.
Weeb Tip, check out Vinland Saga
if you haven't already.
Big nut.
So we actually recorded watching Mandalorian episode one
as a test for potential E5 mini.
It doesn't work because we're mostly watching it,
you know, instead of reacting.
Yeah, Mandalorian episode one was good.
Like we record watching it and then we're just like, yay.
So that there's nothing to worry,
like it's hard to turn that into entertainment
because at least with Batwoman,
we can listen to what they say
and then point out how dumb the characters are being
or make jokes because of how silly it is,
but it doesn't really work with good stuff.
Trying to think of like,
I guess the best we could possibly do
would just be putting up the videos
of talking about the episode once it's over.
Cause that could work, but I don't know.
It's just not really,
I don't know if there's an inverted version.
I don't think it works that way.
Mess up on the first one.
You should try a super giant game sometime.
We'd love to hear your thoughts on them.
What stuff does super giant make?
Super giant.
Let's find out.
They have higher Bastion, Transistor and Hades.
I've heard good things about Bastion and Transistor.
Yes.
I've not played Hades.
I've not even heard of Hades.
All right, I haven't done it.
What is Hades?
Oh, it's an early access trailer.
Oh no, it does have stuff in it.
Whoa, it's a game with colors, moving characters.
Neat.
Might check it out.
Who knows?
And it says, how do I get on your discords?
There's a link to mine in the description.
How do they, how do you?
I don't know, email me or something.
There you go.
Yeah, do that.
Yeah.
Do that.
Yeah, give me money too.
Count of Monte Cristo, Rags has good taste.
Yes, I do.
Rags, write this down for Soba Rags.
You need to watch the anime adaptation
of the Count of Monte Cristo, Gun Koot Suo.
It's a really creative take on the original story.
I bet you would dig it.
I might, I might, I might.
Have you guys seen the cop Star Wars fan made video?
It's hella old, but it's gold
and it's not copyrighted or anything.
So it should be good to stream or watch.
Just look up Star Wars cop's parody.
That sounds interesting and simultaneously strange.
With the prestige, I love the film right up to the end.
All the tricks are realistic,
but the end was essentially magic.
Or am I really wrong?
No, no, it's, well, in their universe,
it's actually, they're saying that Tesla could do it.
Tesla could make that.
That's something with science, with the mechanical.
Obviously we don't have anything like that in our world,
but for the purposes of their world,
that was something he actually created.
And if you remember,
he talks a lot about how he invented stuff
that made him celebrate as a visionary,
but he had to stop because people can't take
too much change at once.
And he's referring probably to a lot of different things,
but one of them being a cloning.
That is not something that people are gonna deal with well.
There's a lot of things that have to happen.
If cloning became like regularly possible,
imagine all the fucking things that would happen,
like politically, for one.
Do clones get voter rights?
I don't know, there's just lots of implications with it,
as well as what the film implies,
but it being something that's not possible in our world
doesn't bother me.
Obviously, Cutter refers to it as magic
in that it makes no sense to him whatsoever,
this implied that Tesla is using Skyence.
Skyence.
Hello, chat.
Everything in Joker is real
until the phone calls the guest on the show.
The last third of the film is in his head
while he's jacking it on the bed.
That makes sense?
That's an odd thing to fantasize about
while you're jerking, but all right, here I go.
Oh yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
3050, Mauler, remind me to never put another joke
or reference in a super chat.
I put who the fuck is Mauler,
reference to the not so great debate
when Wolf mentioned how he first heard of you,
and you read who the fuck is smarter.
That would be my mistake for combining the S
and assuming that's what was meant.
But yes, I have Tism reading sometimes.
Feelsbadman.
Hmm.
Good evening, all you beautiful massives.
It's been a while since I've managed to catch a live efap
and I'm glad to see all of you again.
Hi, Wags.
Kick J.
And all my best to y'all and our dear Wolf.
Thank you.
How dare you not like Willow, Mauler?
I don't know, I just didn't really enjoy that much.
Sorry, tell my thing.
1917 was amazing.
Odd question, but did you guys have any family
who fought in World War I?
I do not know.
I have to check.
Yeah, I would have to check.
I know I have family who fought in World War II,
but I don't know about one.
Just finished Soma.
Thanks for the recommendation, Mauler.
Also enjoyed your Soma versus Amnesia series.
Was surprised to see your face reveal.
Any more recent horror game recommendations?
Titanfall II and Ori were also fab.
Oh yeah, both of those are highly recommended
from fab lore, essentially.
Any more horror game recommendations?
Let me see.
It's been a while since I've played games.
Probably, anyway.
There are some spooky aspects of Hellblade.
Maybe Resident Evil 7 spooky at the beginning.
Kind of, yeah.
Hoping out my Steam.
Go to Mallory.
Hit button.
Dead Space.
Dead Space 2.
You haven't played those, you should.
Darkwood.
Oh yeah, I like that.
And let's see, what else we got?
Bub.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't play a lot of spooky games.
We don't play a lot of.
The Evil Within 2 isn't really spooky at all.
But it's a decent game.
I liked it.
Maybe you could play, hmm.
Slipping through my games.
Well, scrolly scroll.
Check them out.
Yeah, I got nothing.
Yeah, I mean, I've just not got many recommendations
to give at this point for that.
Keep on the lookout, I suppose.
You guys see the post about a Ray-Lo getting horny
at Disneyland and sexually harassing a Kylo Ren actor,
and they say we're the problem with Star Wars.
That sounds weird.
Sounds very strange, very weird.
How many drinks you on, Rags?
Two, three?
Enough.
Enough, yeah.
I don't have enough.
I don't want to talk too much.
If someone says high metal, he'd say high.
31 slash 15, don't act shocked at the 24 hour shift guy.
Longest shift I had was a 90 hour.
The longest no-sleep shift being 36 to 40 hours.
86 hours without sleep is my record,
and we've all done it without illicit drugs.
I don't want to talk too much about it.
I don't want to talk too much about it.
I don't want to talk too much about illicit drugs.
86 hours without sleep, fucking hell.
Oh boy, that's crazy.
I couldn't do that.
Yeah, I couldn't do that.
For your 100th episode,
you should have tonaled and the dawn, not joking.
I mean, I'll see if I could try and get tonaled.
I don't know.
Yeah, who knows what we could get.
I feel like you probably wouldn't, but I'd try.
Bahamut is a fish, so I will,
so I, you will only see its fin in your entire lifetime.
Very, very, very good.
Have my money, because we love you.
Why, thank you.
The Joker had a supposed amount of Alfred in it.
Yes.
Efap and rum and coke, perfect Saturday night.
There are a few, yummy rags.
Lord Mauler, Jay, Metal,
how are you fine folks doing this evening?
Doing good, doing well.
It's my morning now.
It used to be my evening.
I remember those days.
Still your evening, isn't it, right?
Yes.
I'm sorry.
It is 11.
Ille form?
God, it happened around a while.
I think Parasite is objectively the best movie of the year,
but I'd love to see 1917 old Joker win best picture.
Also, Hi Rags, Metal and Mauler, kick Jay.
Hello.
Hello.
I would be happy with any of those three
winning best picture.
Yeah.
Left Foot Media needs to guest on Efap.
Could be a fun to debate Sicario too with him
since he was a fan.
Also, Hi Rags, kick Jay.
13th Doctor is awful.
I've heard.
Yeah, I mean, it's fine to like Sicario too,
but I fucking hate that movie.
I don't even wanna watch it again, like honestly.
But I'd have to if I was gonna debate about it.
I think the next Efap or the next one
should be RLMs Joker video.
I rewatched the video and I kept frequently pausing.
It's really that bad, do it.
We actually watched that again in the last like month or so.
There was, it was like the opening five minutes
is frustrating as hell
with a lot of like the criticisms they throw out.
And then the rest of it's mostly fine
except random comments from Jay where he's like,
film's not real, film, ugh.
Mike desperately trying to claw him back to reality.
But I don't know if it would work for Efap.
It's just not much to work with.
A lot of it would just be watching them
and they also run copyright.
So it's like watching a movie in terms of copyrightisms.
Which is kind of annoying, but hey.
On a scale of one critical, how drunk is Rags?
Oh, one to critical.
Rags, you scored at like a five right now?
I can't do math.
So I feel like I'm just, I'm not in a position to-
Let's say 11, teen.
Seven, teen, eight, two, four, October.
I'm way too sober for what I just listened to.
Don't even know what.
Ah, probably.
Cover Shinobi, the fallout kingdom,
fallen kingdom part video, please.
We're not going anywhere near Shinobi.
He's a crazy person.
Go to the woods, he exploded, so.
Rags, thanks for plugging Tayrock.
I've bought four and love them.
Oh man, I'm glad you really like them.
Yeah, dude, I wear mine.
It's, they're good stuff.
I really like them.
I ain't getting in touch with them again.
How can we get a meme to you when you missed it?
Like, this is the only way is to try again.
I'm sorry about that.
It's just that we've got, by the way,
wait until the next Efap.
That's when I'm going to do a whole boatload of memes.
We got, we got like a good 200 images to go through.
We're going to do that.
We're going to do, was it a Nazi or movie Bob quote?
Because between me and Rags,
I think we can be able to figure out most of them.
And we're going to do the, I had everything conversation.
It's the Efap does taxes episode
where it's just like text-based stuff,
slash audio, I guess, but not a video.
I don't even know who we're going to get to guest on that
because who would want to guest on those three things?
I don't even know.
I would.
Oh, the other thing I was going to do was look
at the plot summary for Colin Trevorrow's episode nine.
So that's four things we're going to do.
This is like taxes, taxes Efap.
But yes, until that's done,
don't assume that your meme hasn't been caught
because I've grabbed a whole bunch.
They are coming.
Favorite characters and episodes of The Simpsons.
Lisa on Ice was one of my favorite episodes.
I remember that.
Loads of the Halloween episodes,
because of horror, obviously.
Favorite character, Homer was really up there.
Seriously fun as hell to watch him do anything.
Then I really liked Mr. Burns.
I thought he was hilarious.
Got a whole bunch of the Springfielders.
They're pretty strong in terms of just entertainment value.
Yeah, I'm going to go with the most generic answer ever.
I'm going to go with Homer.
What about you, Rags?
Have a watch Simpsons.
There's your answer.
I've got a weird question,
but would really appreciate some advice.
I have a sex toy coming in my mail soon.
But I'm a little nervous about it showing up
because I still live with my parents.
What should I tell them if they ask me about it
on its arrival?
As far as I'm aware, they arrive in an anonymous,
discreet brown box.
Yeah, I think you should be all right.
But on the condition that they discover it,
I suppose might have to be honest.
If they discover it and open it,
the problem isn't that you're sticking stuff up your asshole.
The problem is that your parents are opening up your mail.
Yeah, that's not a good.
Yeah, don't be on the defensive about that.
Be like, dude, what the fuck?
How come you're opening up a mail?
And every time they try and redirect back to the facts,
you got some butt stuff.
Just be like, nope, nope, you took it too far.
Look at my mail.
Yeah, but either that or go to Amazon
and order two different things that are really cheap.
And then have them and then ship them to you or something
so that you could say, oh yeah,
that's such and such that I ordered.
And if it is that it is, and if not, then just take it.
If they ask, oh, another one, you're like, yeah,
I ordered two.
I don't know, I can't think straight.
Decoys, send decoys.
Say it's for eFabs, or the chat said.
It all makes sense.
When the weatherman pronounced flan fair,
my ears heard flan by the push wing gas,
gongella, quindrobo, flancicilio, gorgogorg.
I mean, that's probably fanatically how it goes.
I don't even know.
Went to a graduation party listening to this eFab.
Came back home with a GF, had a bath, and eFab's still going.
Cheers, will fall asleep to your voices.
Very well.
Why are we talking about sans?
Cuphead is in smash.
Is that true?
Is that true?
I think so.
Pretty cool.
Is he?
I don't know.
If that's the case, and that is kind of nifty.
That is kind of cool.
Oh, it's, Cuphead's a me gunner.
A me gunner costume.
Okay.
Something like.
Oh, well, I'm getting links to videos that are actually,
I don't know, yeah.
Cool, if Cuphead's in the game.
This world sucks.
Everybody just shits all the time.
It's true, man.
It's one of those worlds.
Hi Rags, you require headpats, you drunk doggo.
Oh, thank you very much.
I could use some of those.
Response to Shinobi 03 Fallen Kingdom Part II.
Oh.
Don't be crazy.
My hero academia does genetic superheroes
better than X-Men.
Changed my mind.
It could do, I don't know.
Do you mean better than the comic, or the films,
or the TV show?
You got a lot of selection there.
I love how Raggle Fraggles was too drunkified
to answer my question.
What fantasy race would each member of the eFap Party be?
J is a gobo.
Wait, I didn't even remember that question.
Oh my God.
I would be,
would fantasy race?
I don't know.
It would be some doggy thing.
It would be a,
Mauler would be,
I don't know, I feel like Mauler would be like
some kind of fantasy race.
Well, you're narrowing it down a bit too far there.
No, I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I'm thinking.
You come across as a,
hmm, good question.
I wish, fuck, I wish I could concentrate more.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, like, like an,
like one of those old Elrondi kind of elves.
I mean, I'm good to gun for the history.
You get to have loads of powers
and you get to be really tall,
because Christopher Lee is tall.
So that's how I argue.
Ooh, and then Christopher Lee is tall.
And what are the doggo-like creatures of the world
in terms of races?
Oh, fucking, I'd just be a degenerate furry.
A zabrak, there you go.
Let's hope that's what you were gunning for.
Mahler is a zabrak.
Let me check.
No, I mean you.
Well, someone said rag zabrak.
Oh, that's like the,
are those the horn-headed people?
Oh, are they the Dothmore people?
Like Darth Maul is?
Oh, rags be that, yeah.
Why would I be that?
That's, oh.
A carnivorous.
A carnivorous zabrak.
You, I literally flew to Vegas from Illinois
and you massives are still going.
Poop with the door open.
Never.
A bit more money for lessons for playing the hate piano.
Stay classy, Mola, and have a great week.
You too.
Would Mola be a bull or a cow?
Also, hi, rags.
Hello, hello, hello.
Dang, it mutually-
I don't see bull.
Dang, it mutually, you were supposed to say,
oh my God, the way raggles normally does.
Not dryly.
Read in rag speak.
What?
What is in rag speak?
Read in rag speak.
Like how I talk.
That's racist.
That's how I give a, give a,
movie boogie.
Rag's a pretty warg.
Aw.
Oh, look at, okay.
I guess I could-
That's a nice thing anyone's ever said to me.
Yeah, expect to see this
in Moople's next performance review.
Oh, I'm not gonna tell him about that.
So the manager's never gonna know.
Heh heh heh.
Thoughts on Stargate SG-1 and Atlantis?
Also, hi, rags.
Hello.
I never really watched them.
Never, never watched them.
Yep, never watched it either.
Perhaps one day.
If you're interested in trying to react
to something good again,
I recommend The Expanse.
IMO, it's what people are missing
on a ton of showrunners ignore things you guys care about.
I didn't enjoy The Expanse.
I had quite a few issues with it,
but I have to rewatch it to be more definitive about them.
And again, if the show was good,
recording it would kind of just be meh,
because we'd be watching it.
I know that sounds retarded,
but the way it works with Batwoman is we react to it,
but we wouldn't want to be reacting to a good show,
because we want to catch everything in the good show.
But Batwoman is so terrible that missing parts of it,
in order to react to parts of it,
is never a bad exchange.
And so it's like a fundamental sort of thing
that doesn't quite work with good shows.
I just, it would just mean the format would change,
not necessarily be worthless.
Morla Into Vampire campaign, sponsored by WOD.
World of Dorks, I don't know what that is.
World of Dorks.
That's a, it'd be good.
Sounds like a flash game.
World of Darkness, except Dorks.
Super Chat is sponsored by World of Darkness.
No, World of Dorks.
GF Request, Heat, 1995, An Unbridled Rage, when?
Wait, she hates it?
Most people love that film.
Yeah.
No, I don't really intend to make a video on Heat,
but hey, get the GF to do it.
Yeah, get that passion rolling.
Best Picture to 1917, Best Director to Parasite,
Best Actor to Joaquin, Best Supporting Actor to Joe Pesci,
Best Actress or Supporting Actress to Scar Joe, Don't At Me.
I don't mind that selection, that's all right.
Not bad.
Thanks for the hours of entertainment at work.
Don't tell my boss.
Why do you not care for Red Letter Media?
Mike seems pretty relaxed.
Love you regardless.
I don't know what-
I like Red Letter Media.
I was gonna say, what show have you watched it?
We had to have it to defend them all the time.
I really like Red Letter Media.
I think that Jay has a lot of tismtakes sometimes.
Yeah.
He's made up for it by the presence of Rich.
Yes.
Like, whenever it's Rich and Mike discussing something,
it could literally be just the consistency of soil,
and I'd be like, let's do it.
Fucking do it, let's talk about DART.
DART.
Dirty boys.
Me, Hi Rags, Brown Table.
That's sexual harassment.
Narita, oh no, the sinister Brown Table has come
to spread its horrible logic across town again.
But fear not, citizens.
The E-Fab crew is here to save the day.
Oh, good.
I wanna be, we're a superhero film.
Yes, we're a superhero.
So Rags, have you ever played as Space Hitler in Stellaris?
No, I haven't played Stellaris.
Soundtracks great.
Yeah, I haven't played it either.
Feels bad, Morn.
Hmm.
Shout out to the Massives on Daddy's Nothouse.
Oh, that's quite nice.
Oh, yeah, man.
Also, Hi Rags, also TFA part seven, when?
TFA part seven, I don't think there was a part seven.
Unless this could've just been used to me, I guess.
I'll have to sort it out eventually.
Oh.
Okay.
These are the Streamlab ones coming up next.
Got, you were my favorite Ewok Anakin.
I loved you, very emotional.
Nice of you to have fellow long men and person of shadow
PSA sitch on for another stream.
No, that was literature devil.
Oh, I can't believe it.
What a massive surprise.
I am bored at work alone.
And behold, my favorite Ewoks alive.
Time-stamping 39 minutes into Efap 70,
so you know where you are in the backlog.
Well, these get sorted into a different one.
But yes, I may have already asked this
and my memory is tisming, but Mola,
did you say you think of all of Westworld as bad
or just season two?
Oh, I think you asked this before.
And I guess maybe the answer hasn't come through yet,
but I think, I haven't seen season two.
I've heard awful things from the fan base though.
And then season one, I adore episode one.
And then it just slowly turns to poopy.
And by the last episode, I really hate season one.
I guess brief issues like the entire,
the man in blacks entire fucking journey,
you know, old vision is pointless.
Like, and he's told that from the beginning
and he goes on this really long adventure
only for it to end in him being like,
oh, so that was pointless.
So beyond unsatisfying.
Which of the hosts are actually conscious
is extremely confusing.
Ford's plan seems to be built on a lot of lucky elements
that bother the shit out of me.
And the security in Westworld is selectively non-existent
when they want certain things to happen
and it really bothers me.
But first episode's fantastic.
Bop it, twist it, pull it, do it.
Oh, I remember those.
I remember them as well.
Bop it, pull it.
I think they were being suggestive
when they said stuff like.
Do it.
I wanted to fuck up off it.
I knew it, I knew it.
Fuck it.
Opinions on Pathologic One and Two.
H. Balm made a great video.
I tried, I tried to play Pathologic One
and I gave up after two hours
and then I watched his video
and he actually says that that was like a common experience
and then I watched all of it
and him explaining what's good about Pathologic.
And it was, yeah, it was an awesome video
but I agree with his conclusion
that that game is so fucking far beyond accessible.
Like the good parts of it are extremely hard
for people to actually be able to access
through its blendastopisms.
That's where I can describe it.
The Velocipasta, so bad it's good.
I've actually got that noted down
because someone else brought up in a Super Chat before.
We may check it out for an E-Fap movie at some point.
Oh yeah.
Thoughts on Narcos.
That's the TV show.
I have not watched it.
And I'm assuming Rags has not watched it either.
No, no, no, wait, what?
Which one?
A show called Narcos.
No, I haven't.
There is a Wikipedia page called
Controversies About the Word Niggardly.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It's a very friendly and innocent word though.
It gets a bad rap.
If it turned out that all of the sequels
were the delusion of a poor desert girl high on drugs,
would that fix them?
Also high regs.
Hello.
Maybe better.
Maybe better.
If they were to make all this shit go away.
Do you think prequels or sequels
can do more damage to a franchise?
Not only in relation to Star Wars, but in general.
Also high regs.
Hello.
Sequels.
I think sequels, yeah,
because it can take active characters
and fuck them immediately while prequels.
I suppose to a degree,
the worst possible prequel and the worst possible sequel,
they'd probably draw in terms of how much damage
they could potentially do, I imagine.
I think they have equal power to fuck the universe.
I guess I think sequels have more power to fuck characters.
That would be my conclusion
without thinking about it a bit more.
32, 15.
What is your favorite Star Wars Disney retcon?
Mine is the old guy who survived Endor being Captain Rex,
Vader's former clone commander who ignored Order 66.
He was on a special assignment at the time.
I didn't even know about that.
Fun, I guess.
Favorite Disney retcon?
I don't like anything that they retcon.
It bothers me.
Fuck Disney.
Fuck movies.
Fuck him with a bop-it.
Oh, yeah.
And then twist it.
Twist it.
Bop it.
Yeah, I don't know.
I guess it would just be least annoying one.
I don't even know what to say about that.
Ugh.
Ugh.
Least annoying retcon.
No, I hate them all.
I'm just thinking about all of the different things
they retcon, and I just hate them all.
I'm sorry.
They're all just as good,
because they're all terrible.
Goodnight, massive Ewoks.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
Does TROS have a rayfinder?
I wish that Ray got lost for the whole movie.
No, that we'd follow her being lost
and it would be a nightmare.
At least she's not ruining things.
True, true.
Then everyone else gets killed,
and the first order win,
and that's the Star Wars universe,
the first order ruling the Emperor Palpatine.
Ray, we did it.
I suppose that's better, actually, yeah.
Mm-hmm.
That was worthless.
Thoughts on Patricia Taxon's rags video.
I hated it.
I don't think you've seen it.
Worthless.
I've already seen it.
I was a little bit slow, like, fixed.
Fuck it.
You're a little bit of it, isn't it?
Shit.
Yeah, and it wasn't very good.
I've watched all of your Star Wars
Unbridled Rage videos in preparation
for the TROS Unbridled Rage.
Can't wait till it comes out.
Also, Ry Hags and Hit Liar.
I, Star Wars Girl, and every other massive.
Very well put together.
See.
Jay Longbone, your n-word passes aren't working.
I was fired.
Oh, no.
So sorry.
Happy almost new year.
Thanks for keeping me entertained at work.
Are you all ready for flappers,
tommy guns, and prohibition to make a comeback?
Flappers.
Yeah, I remember flappers.
Do you ever learn about them?
No.
Promiscuous winn-
So, segregation.
With a degree.
Or clothing that was more free-flowing and stuff.
Yeah, sure.
Let's do it.
Love me some flappers.
Down with the mouse.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
Yeah.
Down, Vistimos.
Ruin Johnson makes JJ Abrams look like Spielberg.
Um.
Yeah, they're both competing to make each other look better
than the other, or something.
I don't know.
It's an odd contest.
What is going on there?
There we go.
Thoughts on Downton Abbey?
I'm three seasons in, and it's surprisingly good.
I have not seen any of it.
I haven't seen any of it,
but there must be something there
if it's going on for a while.
Yeah, weirdly.
I've heard a couple of good things
when I really didn't expect to.
So.
Hmm.
She has a good tiz on that.
Rags, I think I might respond to Patricia Taksin's video
for you, if that's all right.
Yeah, go ahead, give it a, give it your best shot, man.
It's, there's going to be a lot of stuff that I imagine
won't be very difficult to disprove a robot.
Mm-hmm.
JK, I own all the best properties.
I could be a Nazi.
Could be, and you choose not to be?
What in the world would be wrong with you?
They have such nice clothing, you know,
just become a Nazi and then unbecome a Nazi
just to get, you know, the outfit.
Yeah, just to take insignias off the uniforms.
Mm-hmm.
Bob, you frickin' frick.
Happy new decade.
Ah, wait.
Makes sense, yeah.
Happy new decade.
Yeah.
What was this given?
Well, this is the overflow.
Oh, I didn't even know we were in the overflow.
You know, we, we caught up to our stream ones
relatively recently.
Oh, boy.
Cause I'm like, I am tired.
How tired?
All of the tired?
Like, really, I'm really tired more.
What?
I'm really tired.
How long have you been going?
It's almost, it's 11.20 right now.
We started at like 1.30.
Yes, we haven't even reached our normal cap yet.
God damn Nazis.
Ah, what do you think about VatiVidya?
He kind of reminds me of you.
Who?
He's a Dark Souls lore video guy.
I like a lot of his stuff.
He went through some controversies
with how he gets his info, I believe.
But I think you, pretty good Tism,
don't know much about him.
Whoopies.
I've never heard of him.
I don't know anything about Dark Souls lore.
Because you're not a nerd, idiot.
Nope.
Teenage moron.
Ah, well.
ER, have you seen Violet Evergarden?
If he's not still in chat,
I can save that question.
I think you may have been talking about it, actually.
Oh, he still is in chat.
ER, answer that question if you would appreciate,
waddup.
Help rag as this is.
My water is wet.
What should I do?
Oh, just drink it.
Now it's not a problem.
You're all good.
Oh, he said no.
ER said no.
At rags, Quickly Down Under is a great flick.
Glad someone else likes it.
Also, hello.
Yeah, dude.
Oh, hello.
Yeah, I love Quickly Down Under.
You need to do a Cosmo Variety Hour Star Wars coverage.
Yeah, that's actually, you know,
it's on the cards one day.
We'll get to it.
Central time is best time.
Happy New Year's, my fellow Massives.
Happy New Year's.
Yeah, Happy New Year's.
Happy New Year's, everybody.
Central time, gang, gang, gang.
Do you shout out small channels?
Rebranded myself.
I mean, depends on what you mean by shout out.
Like, if someone puts it into a super chat,
I don't mind reading it out,
but we don't tend to showcase
unless we particularly like a thing,
or it's relevant to the thing
we're talking about, that sort of thing.
If having sex with Kathleen Kennedy
would Thanos snap the sequel trilogy,
would you do it or not?
Huh?
If having sex with Kathleen Kennedy
would Thanos snap the sequel trilogy,
would you do it or not?
I'd probably take one from the team.
Yeah, sure.
She was like a kind of woman
who needs a good dick in any way.
Oh, and you can always, you know,
just think of king and country.
Yeah, like you could, like, I don't know,
you could think of a hotter chick
and try to get done as fast as you can.
You could think of the hot doggler.
Yeah, you got a hot doggler.
Like, I am the hot doggler,
and I'm here to save Star Wars with my penis.
That's just, yeah, that's his whole thing.
That's like the movies about.
My favorite movie this decade
is either The Wind Rises or Boy and the Beast.
I do not know what either of those are.
I haven't heard of them.
Just hope Ewoks doesn't become mainstream
and lead to banning Return of the Jedi
as a hate crime movie.
Also, High ER, Blessed Stuckman,
JLB, Anna, Waggled, and Mallboy.
Hello.
Waggled, hello, hi there.
Here's another five for putting the happy
in my happy New Year's, Malloy.
No problem.
Happy New Year.
Here's to another year of tisms and shit.
Hi, Rizgar.
You bet.
Yeah, Rizgar's a new one, I think.
Rizgar.
Happy New Year, you massive longs.
Hopefully, Mordhau will buff my beloved
Bardeechi this year.
On a side note, what be your opinions
on the movie Kung Fu Hustle?
I haven't seen it.
I like it a lot, it's good shit.
Entertaining tisms.
Malloy, could you please deliver Aragorn's full
Rise Men of the West speech in the Welsh accent
you noted as being the normal Welsh accent?
It'd be epic.
Long speech.
Well, maybe, Malloy, I'm seriously super tired.
I am about to just be done.
I feel like I'm over, you know?
Hey, it would seem I missed a bunch of my messages
being read on a previous eFap.
Would you be able to tell me the last time
Streamlabs ones were written?
Tell me the last time Streamlabs ones were read?
I listened to the catch-up one, didn't hear them.
I thought I had seen all the eFaps after I sent them.
Oh, I have no idea which of the specific one it would be.
But, because I definitely answered the Westworld one.
Maybe, like, I would have guessed catch-up one or two,
but I don't know for sure.
I am sorry about that.
It's just that there's so many,
like, we're talking lots and lots and lots of messages
from lots of peoples.
Also rags, if you want to.
You can go to sleep or something.
I can, but what if there are hello rags?
I can save them.
Why are you still going?
I'm not tired.
You're not tired?
What the fuck?
I don't know, I'm not tired.
What time is it for you right now?
It's only 5.30 a.m.
Oh my God.
We usually go until 8 p.m.ish.
I mean, sorry, 8 a.m.ish.
So I've still got like three and a half hours
until the usual end.
You even got a lot of that, right?
Well, I remember we started an hour late
because everyone totally turned up on time.
God damn it.
Play this like a damn fiddle.
That's kind of racist, but right.
This mullet doesn't get smashed on one beer.
That's.
I wasn't.
Absolute lies.
A lie.
Marry, fuck, kill the sequel trilogy.
Hmm.
Kill TLJ immediately.
Just feel that way about it.
Marry, the forest awakens.
Yeah, you could try and change it.
Eye Walker.
Mm hmm.
Fuck it.
Yeah, that's what we'll go with.
For Rags, taking one for the team,
Dick and KK, what a legend.
Oh yeah, boy, I'm going to turn things around.
Like facing the other way.
Can't do it.
With great power comes great responsibility.
That's Star Wars Guild.
Do you think we will ever find out what happened
to Ezra and Thrawn asking?
Not because I like Rebels,
but because I like Thrawn also hire Rags.
Hello.
I will keep that question.
And yeah, I know I keep a lot of questions
and I haven't necessarily filtered them out correctly.
I do need to go through those.
I've just got lots of things to juggle,
but they're all noted and saved.
So they will be gotten to one century or two.
For example, all the wolf stuff actually is done now
and it should be released relatively soon
because I managed to not have it to be
that it's blocked with copyright.
It's just it with the old monetization limitations,
which is fine as a slime.
Nah, South Pole, when he gave TLJ an A minus,
I hated him.
Oh, that's probably about Chris Stuckman.
Also calling to your witcher and have a happy new year.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Hope it's pretty good.
Kathleen Kennedy is always making the face
of someone who just smelled a really hot fart.
Also, Hi Wags.
Hello.
Well, she has to deal with the sequel trilogy all the time.
Yeah, it's one of those you made your bed
now lying at sort of moments, I'd say.
Yeah.
Holy hell, y'all still going?
This truly was a wonderful birthday.
Oh, I'm glad you had fun.
Yeah, what are your thoughts on the death note anime?
If Hollywood gave it a big budget film treatment,
who should direct it?
Who should star as Light and L?
If he manages to answer that,
uh, I'll make a note.
If he doesn't, I will save the question.
If he's still here or not.
I would imagine Star Wars, Star Whores, a triple X parody,
is more coherent than Star Wars, The Rise of Skywalker.
Big props to your show.
Good work, peeps.
I agree.
And thank you.
Um, actually that kangaroo was trying to gut the dog
with its toe claws.
Big, memery, high, tism, high, spicy sauce pants.
I'm writing this to fill up the super chair.
Oh, hi, spicy sauce pants.
Yeah, although thank you.
Y'all said death note is awesome.
It should never be touched by Hollywood again.
Okay, there you go.
Rags, enough with the I'm tired tisms.
Entertain me, you dancing doggo.
Oh, um, I think.
Have you ever, have you ever looked at?
Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moon?
Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moon light?
Have you ever looked at a clock and been like,
oh my God, clockwise to the clock's perspective
is counterclockwise.
Oh my gosh.
That makes sense, 100%.
In a movie called Secretary,
a girl is fascinating about her boss banging here
and says, please, Mr. Grey, put your frick in my mouth.
I swear.
Ugh, who says that?
Put your frick in my mouth?
A person's barbie frick is their own.
You don't go putting that in other people's mouths.
That's just wrong.
Put your frickin frickin my mouth.
No.
JF and DF were too focused on emulating Old Westerns
and Samurai films that they overlooked the wonders
of the ship could work in a number of situations.
Yeah, kind of.
Yeah, a lot of writing issues, a lot of problems,
a lot of episodes that just, ugh.
Hello, everyone, accept rags.
Yeah, well, how about you come and fuck yourself?
That, with a bop it, and then twist it and then pull it.
Cap was right.
Anyone disagrees equals filthy statistics.
God.
Rags, you beautiful doggo.
Let's 69 each other and celebrate 2020.
I have a thick Puerto Rican gift waiting for you.
Oh my God, that sounds like a great old time.
Let's fuckin' do it.
Hey, it's my birthday.
I had an exam today and I got an A.
How did your day go, my reviewers?
Pretty good?
I think our coverage was thorough.
Yeah, my day was great.
Of Mr. Ralph, and I managed to get through
a whole bunch of fundisms and questions.
Yeah, Ralph did not get an A on his exam.
No, he did not.
No, he failed.
He did very bad.
A question, why have a good woman
when you have your own hand,
but why use your own hand when you could have a good woman?
Cause, if vagina feels better than your hand?
I guess.
It's a weird question, but I mean, like,
actual sex is way better than jerkin' it.
Mm-hmm.
They had to pretend that being a Jedi
was intrinsically linked to bloodlines,
then push the message that it isn't.
Hop, hack, fraud, writing.
Say my name in a sexy way.
Oh, I don't know whose name it is,
cause I don't have the names copied.
Oh, no.
Ad fate.
Also, high rags.
Make up a name, hello, whoever you are.
Make up a name, and then say it's sexy.
Juanita?
Juanita.
There you go, Juanita.
Also, high rags, E.R. and J. Longbow.
Hello.
I gotta sleep.
I'm sorry, I got caught there.
I really gotta sleep.
I'm about to just like.
It's all right, go sleep.
I almost like just headbutted the table.
Okay.
Yeah, I'll catch y'all later.
I just, I gotta sleep.
I gotta go, and I gotta do sleep-tisms.
Sleep well, my good Roynen-hynen.
I'll catch you in the morning,
or whenever it is that I wake up.
Little Dave, cheerio.
And I hope you enjoy your chats and your supers,
and may the hot dog old,
what's the, fuck?
I forget the hot dog-ler.
Be a hot dog-ler forever.
Keep thy buns warm,
and may his mustardy thickness
be squirted upon all of your,
its instruments.
All right, everyone enjoy yourselves.
Goodbye, Mahler.
Everyone, good night.
Tootle doodles.
Goodbye, goodbye, everyone.
And then there was one,
for about five minutes, I think,
before it knocks me out of this call,
because it doesn't allow people to stay.
I should have told Rags to stay in,
but mute.
My ultimate failure.
We stand here with you, Bowler.
I might have to knock myself off-screen
if I get booped out.
Unforche, not le.
But, you know, it happens.
Okay.
It is objectively 2020 in my time zone's opinion.
Happy New Year, all of you long man and whamen.
Be sure to get enough bass in the next decade.
High rags, oh no.
I'll try and keep every high rags,
so that we can knock them all out.
We can't have it be that people aren't provided their hellos.
That would be what they call sacrilicious.
A few weeks ago, I had to put down my cat
who had lived for 15 years,
and coping has been really tough.
But listening to you all is the first time I've lost
since then, so just thanks for being there.
I'm sorry that happened.
I'm very happy to provide entertainment.
And smiles, of course.
And then, see, back to back with that one I read.
Again, sex is better, but my hand never says no.
Ah, see, what am I supposed to do with that?
Better find.
I think Bloomberg might be the new RSL, so many ads.
Good hups.
And then night rags.
I'll even write that, so that rags can...
Night rags.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm really not tired.
That's the way systems work.
Hey, ER, you wanna come on?
You can keep me on the screen
if you happen to be interested.
I'm gonna put a Kappa face message.
There you go.
Let's find out.
Very, very interesting.
Opinions on Rise of Skywalker,
if you'd rather not open that can of whims
than Happy New Year, lads.
Been a bit since I've caught a stream live.
That was after we did the full stream on it,
and I've got a video out on it, so check those out
if you wanna.
Ah-ha, it lasts slightly longer in this call.
Hello.
How dare you mute?
Sensitive.
I might be able to procure a Fringy as well.
Yeah, it's all good.
Heck, RLM specifically, Mike Lebowski,
the thinking that the ST is bad on the PT
is massive, Cuck, Revenge of the Sith video
is 98% subjective.
Yeah, they still think that the sequels are stronger.
I remember when that was a super controversial thing to say,
and nowadays, I think it's controversial to say the reverse.
Interesting how that happens.
I was having the biggest grin on my face
through the whole movie.
Some cancer kid was coughing through the whole movie,
ruining my fun.
Cancer kid.
Just because you cough does not mean you have cancer.
Also, I think that, because I had a gap there,
we might be through the New Year's messages,
or at least, yeah, I wanna say it's possible.
No guarantees, not sure exactly where we are now.
We'll probably find out through context eventually.
And I don't know how many hours I'll be able to go on this,
but we will soldier on for the moment.
Gonna keep checking the new ones
to make sure I'm not missing anything.
It's important to get the orders right.
On the subject of static characters like Tywin,
do you think that a character can have an arc
that is wholly contained within their backstory?
As in, we gain information over time
that shows they changed over time
into who they are in the present story.
Yeah, I think that'd be pretty interesting.
Like you have characters who knew them
when they were younger,
but they're the only ones that can speak to them
in a certain way,
or they could obviously talk about it as stories go on,
and you could learn a bit about them in that way.
I think that works.
Um, watch TLJ before TROS
and resolve two plot holes you cite.
TLJ still sucks, though.
One, Finn and Rose deduce how to disable the tracker.
Just says that, I don't know.
Finn and Rose just deduce how to disable the tracker.
I can't remember what that counted specifically.
And C-3PO says there may be an unmapped natural exit.
That's just, that's not,
there's a big open hole,
but a pile of rubble has fallen into it.
Like the idea that that's a natural exit
would imply that the place wasn't built
to be walled up with specific exits,
and that, I don't know,
there was just some kind of cave in
that they were like,
hopefully it just has something
that fell apart at some point.
Like that wouldn't really make much sense for a base,
would it?
But the, I still,
I would still stand by the idea
that they're cheating with stakes to a degree.
They're like, this is absolutely no way out of here.
And then they're like, oh, well, I mean, there's a way out.
Once the plan to assault the cannon fails.
Here's two hours of entertainment, my thank you, Massives.
Inspired me to write my own review of COIE.
Currently at 15K words,
episode one, two, and 10 minutes of episode three covered.
Expected to be three to four hours long in total.
High ranks, kick J.
Long man, good.
Quite a high ranks.
Gonna make sure you catch all of them, you know?
And yeah, good luck, dude.
Have the food.
Una momento.
Hey.
Oh, hey.
Do I sound all right?
I went for being alone to having two.
How's that?
There we go.
There is some.
Oh, that's the big gay.
Yeah, I can't.
Oh no.
Gentlemen.
Hello.
Rags died, so I decided to carry on without him.
It sounded like he died a long time ago.
In a galaxy far, far away?
Yeah, pretty much.
He was really hitting the sauce.
Yeah, he's a strange one with alcohol.
It seems to me like he's, though, like I said,
that's so much cheaper, if you know what I mean.
Like, you don't have to spend as much to get flizzimed.
In fact, you just have to buy a six pack
and you can get drunk six times across the week.
Not bad.
Not too shabby.
Superchets.
Yes, yes.
We're up to date.
I'm just doing overflow of which there's a chunk,
to say the least.
There's a chunk.
If Jedi and Sith were real,
which side do you think Hitler would have been on?
Oh, the Jedi.
Yeah.
With the Sith, he'd be like,
hey, Emperor, can I have the, no, okay.
Yeah, I'm stealing up all the power.
With the Jedi, he could probably slip in there, you know?
Devious plans.
All that?
They're all about bloodlines.
I've been watching The Witcher.
It's decent so far.
That's not what I've heard.
I have heard it was decent,
but I haven't watched it yet, so I can't judge.
I don't believe it.
Apparently, it's really like when the show came out,
the games like they kicked up in player base for a while.
Well, that's nice.
Um.
So logic just added me saying he would totally come on
if he was asked, cough, cough.
I'm pretty sure I sent him an invite
for the New Year's Eve one.
I am outraged.
But yeah, I actually wouldn't mind getting
another logic episode.
Just gotta find the right video for him to cover
instead of just think Star Wars.
Yeah, it's gotta be in his realm.
He's not a Star Wars guy.
If view account drops,
RLM has posted their review.
I think that did actually happen during our.
So what happened earlier?
Did like a copyright strike knock the stream out?
No, it's just the thing that happens now, apparently,
which is just, it just stops.
And then you have to stop it and restart it.
I don't know why it happened.
This is like the fourth time now.
Mine's not still working, but.
Well, you know what that means.
Eight hours left.
What's the thing?
Like, it kind of means I get to stop whatever I want
as opposed to I have to stop at a certain time, so.
Hey, that's, that's good.
So if Anakin is technically Palpatine's kid,
Ray is his grandkid, and Ben is Anakin's grandson,
does that make Ray low incest?
Hashtag sweet home tattooing.
Yes.
I want a corgi, but I work 10 hours, five to four to five days.
Oh, I assume corgis may be high maintenance.
I don't.
There's some doggos you can leave
that take care of themselves in like the house
where you go to work, right?
Or is that?
There's so many dogs.
I think some of them here.
A corgi.
A corgi.
Rob Walker, Doug's brother.
Jabs at TLJ haters are the worst.
Never addresses any criticism, just.
Criticism just characterizes them as crazy fanboys.
I'm sure some of them are crazy,
but yeah, it seems to be that a lot of,
a lot of people like to be like,
hey, you guys are the nuts ones.
And then you're like, you show them Patrick Golden's tweet
and you'd be like nuts like this guy.
Maybe not.
Any chance you guys are going to play
the push the button Jack in the box, Jackbox game again?
That episode had me in physical pain from laughter.
I DAS seek high L E R.
Hello.
I don't think we're against it.
It was just, that was like a randomly,
we had collected up a huge amount of people.
They were just like, hey, we can play that game.
Let's do it.
Yeah, and the thing of it is we tried that,
we tried again at one point, we didn't stream it,
but we had about five people
and the timer only gets to like 15 minutes.
That's not enough time.
No.
It really isn't.
We tried, but oh, the aliens just kicked everyone's ass.
Give this to E R and call him my rigger.
Are they referencing something with that?
Goodness.
Scooby-Doo sang the N word.
Oh.
Oh my.
Yeah.
Have logic to cover R R, the Republican guys.
Like, yeah, I suppose maybe.
Dude, that debate was amazing.
Oh, that was funny as hell, yeah.
Please rate the Joker films from best to worst.
Batman Dark Knight Suicide Squad Joker.
So when they say Batman, I'm guessing that's the 89.
So Suicide Squad's worst, surely.
Yeah.
Wait, so are we rating the films in general
or the Joker's from all of these films?
Pretty sure Joker.
Okay.
So the worst Joker is still Suicide Squad's.
Sure, I agree.
Then, I mean, I probably do prefer
Heath Ledger's Joker to Jack Nicholson's.
I definitely do.
When it comes to Joaquin Phoenix versus Heath Ledger's one.
Whew, that's gonna be a tough one.
The way I figure this in my head is like,
what would you rather, a sequel that involves
Joaquin Phoenix's or Heath Ledger's?
And I'm like, probably Heath Ledger's.
Yeah.
Maybe I'm biased by the fact that
I know that it's an impossibility.
So I'm like, I want it even more.
They both work so fucking hard on their role.
So it's like, it's just so hard
to choose one over the other.
But I think I would also have to say
Heath Ledger, unfortunately.
It's a tiny margin.
Yeah, I was gonna say.
But I think Ledger wins out.
Outside of Suicide Squad, I like all of them.
So it's like.
Yeah.
Thoughts on Cosmonaut.
I'm sure he's a nice person,
but his logic is insanely retarded.
Yeah.
I liked his Hellblade review.
It was pretty good.
He can be okay.
But sometimes it hurts.
I've seen like, I want to say like 12 videos
from his channel in total now.
And like, oh, every time his arguments suck.
And he gets so much shit wrong.
And this is the thing.
I don't think he needs to.
His format is relatively sound.
Like he's got good quality production values,
but the writing, my God, the writing.
Yeah, I haven't watched him,
but he said I was right on Twitter once.
I gotta appreciate that.
Well, if you said you're right,
surely he would admit that I'm right about something, right?
So like Hitler.
No kidding.
It's gotta be.
Exactly.
You're the Fuhrer.
See Kyle Commonrunt.
See Kyle.
Any thoughts on the Narnia film?
Also buy Wags.
We'll put that in the notes.
Collecting up all the Wags.
A what film?
Narnia film.
Oh, yeah.
I remember that being pretty good back in the day.
I think people liked it, right?
I don't know.
Chronicles of Narnia?
Didn't really, I don't really remember it, but yeah.
I don't really remember it.
Aslan was pretty cool.
Yeah, probably.
I'm gonna chat.
Talk about what you thought of the Narnia film
to let this person know,
because I'm really not sure
of what the public opinion was on that.
I think people liked it.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
I don't remember much of it.
That's all.
It's just the film is,
I remember Aslan being Liam Neeson.
I remember the witch being cold.
She was frosty.
I remember those things.
That means I remember the whole movie.
Yep, there you go.
Pretty much.
I love how Shad says retards so freely,
but he refuses to say ass.
That makes me so proud.
I didn't notice that.
Yeah, retards is super common in Australia,
so it's not even considered.
Oh, yeah, kind of like Cunt.
Yeah, that one would be the equivalent
of probably saying fuck for them.
They're like, that one's super common,
but then America would be like,
that's the word you use
when you run out of every other word.
No.
Oh, we got a lot of shite, belch, awful, movies were meh.
They weren't so good.
Yeah.
Don't remember, to be honest, yeah.
Shad's comment on sibling rivalry was spot on.
Oh, he has a comment on it.
Sibling rivalry is the thing that Nostalgia Critic does.
Oh, yeah.
Critic.
Oh, right, I should probably put sibling rivalry.
Must see, spoiler corner or non-spoiler?
I don't really.
Say it, Tring, say it, Tring.
All right, I guess it's not.
Delphine.
Vicon is pretty distinct.
Unless he said something in the stream
and that's what we're referring to.
I didn't know he actually watched Nostalgia Critic
if he does.
What are we talking about?
Shad.
Oh, yeah.
Shadiversity.
I wonder if, who the voice for that is.
I wonder if he keeps him pitched down.
I don't know, it sounds like it kind of,
he hides somebody, I don't know.
No.
Cannot find it, so I don't know.
Maybe that was from the stream.
Yep.
What will be the next debate, eFap?
Any chance of getting Jeb Nichols on the stream?
No.
There's no way in hell she would agree to that.
I'm sure she thinks we're like the worst thing ever.
It's seriously doubt she would ever come on.
Yeah, she said it over and over again.
And as for what the next debate would be,
we haven't got any plans,
but you never know in the future.
Although we would be happy to have her,
more than happy to hammer,
and we will be as civil as we can be.
I need sleepy-tisms as well.
Good night, long man and friends.
Don't bless.
Good night.
If Finn and Poe would have kissed at the end,
this would have been a 10 out of 10.
And you know what?
I think people would have way preferred that,
and they could have cut it for the Chinese vision still.
Yeah.
So it solves both your problems, but Disney.
Mola started streaming eight hours ago.
Okay, cool.
It should be halfway done.
I can still catch them.
Sorry, I can't stay to watch long.
I'll catch it all.
Mola, love you guys.
High rags.
I will save the high rags.
We got one, two, three, four, five rags related,
small messages.
Oh, you know what?
Hang on a minute.
Hello.
Here we go.
Yeah.
That was actually fucking creepy for a second, man.
Like.
Love the content, you guys.
Haven't seen much eFap since it kind of blew up,
but glad to see that it's still as great as it was
when it started.
Happy holidays and hi, Mola.
Hello.
And yeah.
Partially, thanks to Jenny Nicholson
for letting people know about the show.
Promoting it.
This is very kind of you.
Thanks, Jenny.
You're cool.
You're okay.
Yeah, you're all right.
eFap is the best entertainment on YouTube.
There is so much video essay crap I see these days
that I would have believed to be good
had it not been for you.
Or had it not been you.
Yeah.
It's far why we wanted to do it.
Cause we would casually watch them ourselves
and be like, this is bullshit.
This thing looks stupid.
It's like, we should stream this cause it's funny.
Cause yeah, the first person we covered
in episode one was totaled.
We were like, that was thrust
as a well-respected YouTube video essayist.
Why?
Maybe it's cause he's handsome.
Yes.
Very handsome.
ER, next video when?
Never.
Oh.
Still thinking of doing a TROS one
or is that, how's that going?
Yeah, yeah, eventually.
I'm in no rush though.
Never am.
Hey, ER, my Argentinian grandfather is a hero
since he is the one who killed Hitler.
He was able to sneak into the bunker undetected
because he looks just like him.
Now he runs a local gas station
with a low, low price of 1488 per barrel.
Let's see.
Good for him.
Every time you guys say McMuffin,
I can't help laughing.
Oh, so this is probably
the actual main Star Wars stream then.
I think, I don't know.
I mean, that's where we are in the overflow.
I can only guess.
I always rise of Skywalker doing at the box office,
even casual moviegoers like it, and that's horrifying.
It got over a billion.
That was the thing I didn't want it to do, but it did.
Sad.
It's a billionaire film.
Any chance of getting Jeremy Johns on the stream?
I think I tried to contact him at one point,
but no luck so far.
Wonder what we talk about.
Oh, I can't imagine what could possibly be discussed.
It probably wouldn't be Star Wars.
That would be.
I discussed everything else.
We'll talk about Lord of the Rings.
Be great.
There you go.
Beware the jealousy of the bullqueer.
Love y'all.
That's an RR video right there.
In the Jokerverse movie about Wayne Killer on the run,
it would be maybe, maybe, well, earlier I said,
maybe it could be about Gordon.
Could make something work per chance.
The fucking dead speak.
Total Skywalker.
The fucking dead.
Well, Shad was the film,
the spaghetti bolognese you were looking for.
I will save that for Shad or you need.
I will save that for Shad or you need.
You need.
Finn wanted to tell Rey he's Force-sensitive from JJ.
Yeah, apparently.
Apparently there was a bit more cut
that he was gonna do related to Force stuff,
but I like how most people came away thinking like,
oh, he was trying to tell her he loved it?
Wow.
That's what I thought at first.
For some reason, but you mentioned the Force thing.
Yeah, JJ didn't think that that's kind of how people
would find that unless he just didn't have
enough control over it,
but I just feel like, yeah,
most people will interpret it that way.
Mm-hmm.
Maybe because it was meant that way.
Maybe someone cut it that wasn't JJ,
that was like, let's make it look like he loves it.
People will like that.
Yeah, that's what I'm thinking.
Here's some, what would you call that?
You know, we got Ray-Lo.
So what, we got like Finn-Lo.
Oh.
No, wait, Finn-Lo.
Oops, I meant.
I thought he was serious.
Like Finn and Kylo put together.
I was like, I got it.
Finn, fuck.
Rey-Lo.
Rey, fuck it, I don't know.
I tried.
Red-Lo's just him kissing his foot or something.
After he's dead.
Yes.
Retiring to relay for some sleep.
Night massives.
Good night.
Fly me to the moon, let me kick its fucking ass.
Let me show it what I've learned
in my moon jiu-jitsu class.
I can see how you could change the lyrics that way.
Very good.
What lines in the movies say Palp made Anakin
when he talks about manipulating life
through midi-chlorians,
or creating life through manipulating midi-chlorians?
And then that lines up with the whole like,
who's the father?
And then she's like, there was no father.
And it's like, hmm.
It was the Force.
It was implied.
I think Johns has been watching Efab
in his recent top 10 videos, et cetera.
He says, in my biased, unprofessional, subjective opinion.
I did a double take when I heard that.
I mean, it would be pretty funny
if he had seen any of this,
but I'm going to press the X button.
And then-
Is this person claiming that Jeremy Johns is dog whistling?
His name is Jerome.
Jerome, thoughts on uncut gems should have been nominated.
That is the next film that Rags and I
shall be checking out, actually.
It'll be fun on the bun.
God, are we getting an even bigger house now?
Going back to a full roster, almost.
Yeah.
Hey, hi there.
How you doing?
I'm just- I'm going green, man.
I don't know if you know
if I was dreaming right now.
All right, all right, hi.
So it's the tail end of an Efab.
All right.
Rags went sleepy-tisms
and I'm reading out remaining superchats.
So it went so long that even Rags couldn't make it through.
Rags was drunk.
Rags, he had a beer
and you know how he is after a beer.
He had a beer that he was gone.
Every time someone brought it up,
you would deny, however much you actually drag,
you'd just say lies every time.
Someone said it was one or two.
Oh yeah, happy Australia Day and all that.
Yay, Australia did it.
They horribly disfigured by boons, but they're alive.
They're like Anakin, but a country.
How did they get the sweet helmet?
Who be Obi-Wan in that scenario?
Your Prime Minister, I guess.
OK, well, I mean, if Australia's Anakin,
you better get on some legs, god damn it, I'm getting birds.
You were the chosen one, Australia.
I don't know. I feel like it would be more apt if it was America.
No, wait, no, hold on.
Yeah, no, that wouldn't work.
If America was Anakin and the British Empire was Obi-Wan,
shots would pull their arms and legs.
It would be the Independence Day gone wrong.
He did that in our video. It was really good.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
All right. Really good.
I wholeheartedly agree.
Are you going to be covering the next time they do a death note on Netflix,
which apparently they're going to do?
Probably. I don't know what they're going to do with that.
Yeah, they're doing a sequel.
Yep. And they canceled.
They canceled Daredevil and then announced that right around the same time.
Netflix just chock full of good decisions.
Yes, it's awesome.
Oh, well, who would your ultimate
effap guest star be? I vote for the dawn ultimate guest.
Probably like, dude, honestly, it's got to be ponelled.
Well, I was going to say probably like Ryan Johnson.
Could you imagine that?
And like he's contractually, yes, he's contractually obligated
to stay here for two hours and I can just ask him questions.
Could you imagine that?
Yeah, yeah, that would be that would.
I would want I would want like a whole week of prep
and I would write the shit out of so many I'd be writing questions
with a specific intention of him not being able to weasel out of them.
Oh, my gosh. But no, I mean, I would like to see the dawn or tonal.
There's lots of good stars, but I feel like that could be very fun.
Also, George Lucas, that could be cool.
You think Tony because we could like sit down and watch stuff with him?
Yes, I don't think Ryan would be.
I don't think we could really sit down and watch.
You should watch Godelve episode one or two with him and just see what he thinks.
Does this speak to you?
What do you think? It was inspired by you.
And it's like, why are we watching my video?
Please. Oh, wait.
Yeah, please rank Disney Star Wars films from worst to least worst
with TFA Rogue One, TLJ Solo, TROS.
So least worst out of all of them is obviously going to be either Rogue One or Solo.
These days, I still edge towards Rogue One being the least worst,
but I can understand towards one being the least worse, I would say.
I'm going solo.
It's fair enough. So it's those two.
And then we're stuck with the trio of horribleness.
Yeah. And if we were to say worse, go ahead.
Um, I well, the thing is, I find it hard because I'm inclined to say
that it's basically they've gotten worse and worse.
But at the same time, a lot of why the sequel trilogy is bad
is all because of the setup that TFA is.
Yeah, this is the thing.
I'm picturing them surrounding a table and in their hand, they hold cards
and these cards like TROS card says destroyed Anakin's legacy,
destroyed the force and kind of fucked with just how I guess the lightning
still counts as the force. So, yeah, those are the two main major fuckups.
TLJs are destroyed space battles, destroyed Luke.
And destroyed those ghosts kind of got destroyed as well.
And then TFA is world building.
I think destroyed is not even a fair word to use.
It's a bit more serious than that.
Yeah. And killed Han as well.
Exactly. And so, yeah, it was based on that that I decided I had changed my mind
and I said TLJs the worst over Rise of Skywalker.
They've all got a really strong hand.
I don't I like how they couldn't just be one that was like not even it couldn't just be like bad,
you know, it has to be it had to be just destroy the destroy everything.
Like it's like they, you know, they're rolling a dice.
It's like, so what are we going to destroy this time around?
Throw it down, Luke. All right. Easy done.
Yep. Just like.
I just pictures like TFA says I destroyed Han.
Then TLJs like I destroyed Luke.
And then TROS is like, I destroyed Anakin.
Like, OK.
I destroyed the original trilogy.
Well, they all did that.
They did.
I blew a back bar immediately.
It's like I destroyed world buildings.
Like I destroyed the force.
I destroyed space battles.
He's like, kids, kids, you're both just.
We hate you equally.
They're all so bad.
I suppose I'm going to go just with personal preference, I guess, with this.
I still think that there was.
I think TLJ put it into its permanent grave where TFA stabbed it repeatedly
and that we could have taken it to the hospital to a degree,
not saying it could ever be rescued.
It's like, you know, after TFS, like, OK, all right.
This is the same, you know, there's blood everywhere, but it's just riddled with bullets.
It's like, all right.
All right.
We could fix this.
And then he just gets run over by a semi-trail.
It's like, oh, no, that's those foundations are gone.
Yeah.
And then TROS is like TLJ, but again, I don't know.
I just feel like the damage isn't as impactful after TLJ,
but it's still majorly impactful.
There's no denying it.
Oh, hardcore.
So for now, this could honestly change by the next time I talk about this subject.
I would just probably do worse, TLJ, then TROS, then TFA, then Rogue One, then Solo.
No, then Solo, then Rogue One, sorry.
Mine from worse to best would be the rise of Skywalker, TLJ, TFA, Solo, then Rogue One.
I have not seen Solo or Rogue One, so I can't really put those in any categories.
Like, the thing is, is a lot of people say Rogue One's like the only one that's OK.
And I'm not even really in that camp.
I think I don't really enjoy Rogue One.
I only like the last 20 or 30 minutes of that movie.
I get that.
Battle of Scarif was pretty cool.
Space battle.
ER, do you want to throw out your own?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Solo, I'm going to put as the best.
And all those, all the sequel, TLJ.
It's kind of tied for me.
They're all so horrible.
I really fucking hate TFA, to be honest.
Yeah, I totally understand, I do.
So maybe that's the worst.
I don't know.
Yeah, I agree.
Um, all right.
Death Note and Steins Gate are the best.
Also, Mola, give me some of your thoughts on Birdman.
Love that shit.
I saw it when it came out in, like, wasn't that 2014?
So it's been a while.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, I've seen it.
So I enjoyed it.
I thought the performances were really good.
I've got a bit headache-y with the one taking in that.
And I think it's because the camera moves a lot.
From what I remember, I'd have to rewatch it again.
But it's a really cool idea for a movie and interesting story for sure.
Yeah, Death Note is, yeah, this is pretty fantastic.
Actually, ER, I have a question.
All right.
Now, do you think the Death Note, like, in terms of the quality of the story,
takes a significant turn for the worst when...
Can we talk spoilers for, like, a 15-year-old anime at this point?
Yeah, all right.
Well, I know what you mean, and so you don't really understand.
Yeah, I think you know where I'm going with that.
Yeah, it does take a really big dive, unfortunately.
I mean, I still really like it, but there's definitely...
I think the first...
But it's, like, a good Death Note.
No, I think the first 10, you know, like, the first arc is probably, like,
peak Death Note. It's the peak Captain Mouse game.
Yep, would agree.
Q&A question one.
No, one question for Rian Johnson.
What would it be?
Why?
Why?
Why?
See, that's the most hilarious answer, I think, but I would actually have to really
work hard on a sort of a question that he can't escape easily.
Because why?
He could just be like, because I love Star Wars, and you'd be like, oh, fuck off.
You don't.
So, yeah.
I...
What I...
Maybe my question would be, so just walk me through, like, the whole movie.
Tell me, like, from your perspective what you did.
It sounds very confrontational, but what I mean is, like,
just walk me through it. Like, what do you think your movie is about?
Oh, yeah.
See, I would love to do, like, an audio commentary with him as well.
And then just keep jabbing.
Just pause it, yeah.
He's just like, I always saw Hux as a funny character.
I'd be like, why?
Oh, I don't know.
He's just amusing.
It's like, oh, he, like, kills the billions of people, but yeah.
Get a funny guy.
What are some maybe lesser known mystery, thriller, films, or TV any of you would recommend?
Ideally, but not necessarily about paranoia, surveillance, cover-ups, and shady groups.
Feels like I've seen everything before.
24 probably doesn't...
And also 24 was popular, so that probably doesn't count.
Yeah, it's probably not a satisfying answer.
Does Homeland count?
They've probably seen that.
Yeah, but Homeland, that's what I mean.
It's like, are we talking movies, TV shows, or anything?
Oh, yeah, they said films and TV.
All right, okay.
I don't have, yeah, I don't have one.
Yeah, I really don't know.
Yeah, I don't watch a lot of it.
No, I know that.
I'd love to.
Like, I just like...
Google will probably help you out with that one.
Like, just search genres and TV shows and stuff.
Um, Google got a bigger brain than we does.
You.
Yeah.
The sequel trilogy can be summed up as follows.
They took old Yellow from Yellow from Little Timmy and gave him to Ramsay Bolton.
Yeah, yeah.
Gotta add that...
All right, how was, uh, how was, how was the Joker video, by the way?
That's what you were watching today, right?
It was pretty bad.
Yeah, I still haven't seen it.
You haven't seen the movie, Ralph, or whatever his video?
I haven't, I haven't seen his video.
I kind of held off on it.
Um, but now that it's already been covered on eFAP,
I kind of have no reason to hold off on it.
I'll just watch it.
It's a fucking dumpster.
Wow, I remember I watched the first part and I was really,
yeah, I wasn't pleased with what I was seeing.
Yeah, we, I think we had like, we got six hours out of it.
Oh, boy.
Look, a while.
If Disney announced they fucked up, this trilogy is not canon
and they're making new sequels to the OG films.
How would you guys feel about that?
Ah, it's too late.
Like, I mean, Carrie Fisher, you've lost her,
so you can never do what I think people were wanting to be done.
I'd still be like, this is good, but...
Yeah, it's preferable.
But unfortunately, they've kind of blown it.
Like, there was one opportunity and it's gone forever.
And I'd be like, you guys, you don't need to make them again.
Just stop.
I'm happy to just decanonize and have nothing new at this point.
I think I might go as far as saying you can make some new stuff,
but do not touch a single character we know.
Right, happy to be totally divorced,
even like a thousand years in the future or the past.
Because like, at that point,
we're just gambling with everything that comes out,
which is like, hopefully this is good.
No, okay, next one.
No, okay.
Then one time we get something good, we're like,
hey, that was good.
Well, I think that's the inherent risk with our direct sequels
is you kind of just run the risk of messing it up completely.
You know, like, you run the risk of causing real damage
to what came before, so...
Just don't do it.
Yeah, probably a good way to avoid it.
Just don't.
Um, please rank the Avengers ensemble movies
from best to worst.
Oh, that's easy.
The selection is, that they've given anyway,
is Avengers, Age of Ultron, Civil War, Infinity War,
and the game.
Yeah, because they put in ensemble movies as well,
but it's fine, yeah.
Out of those five, so...
I mean, do you want to go first for me?
And I'll just see if mine's exactly the same as yours,
because it probably is.
Mine's Civil War, sorry, from best to worst,
Civil War, Avengers, Infinity War, endgame, Age of Ultron.
Wait, is the list how much we enjoy them, or how...
Oh, if how good or bad they are,
it's probably gonna be endgame at the bottom, unfortunately.
Yeah, I was actually gonna say,
as much as Age of Ultron's retarded,
I actually think endgame is written for, unfortunately.
Which is crazy when Age of Ultron is.
You gotta change your stance.
Did we say that it was better than Age of Ultron
in our first stream?
I don't know.
Well, you did say it was pretty good.
That's what I remember.
Well, we said we really liked it.
We also rated it much lower on the objective scale for him,
because the time travel's fucking ass.
But time travel is...
It's fucking retarded.
It ruins everything.
It does cause a lot of problems.
But the Age of Ultron,
but everything with Ultron is just garbage.
Also, yeah, I would actually say
that I've definitely soured on endgame.
And I think that I said that in the stream.
It's just gonna be a matter of time
for the emotions to die down,
for everything else to remain,
which is all the mechanics.
It's like those pesky mechanics.
I guess the thing is,
if you were somebody who...
Maybe if you just watched the Avengers movies,
let's say, because if they just watch endgame,
they're gonna be totally lost.
But if you watched all the Avengers movies
and then you got to endgame,
the character stuff would still be pretty potent,
but maybe not as potent.
And so you'd be left with a lot more of the,
wow, the time travel is pretty dumb.
Yeah.
So I guess best written to worst written,
I would place Civil War at the top as well.
Then it's...
Yeah, I guess Avengers is tighter than Infinity War
because of the stupid gauntlet.
The gauntlet kind of fucks with everything.
Yeah.
Then...
No, I think I probably like...
Maybe not.
I feel like I do, but I'm pretty sure that I really...
I don't know.
The issue is I know that when I watched Avengers
for the first time, I thought it was awesome.
So yeah.
Yeah, and then Ultron then endgame.
But in terms of favorites, it's mostly the same list.
Yeah, it's pretty much the same for me as well.
Except I'd put endgame above.
Yeah, endgame above Ultron.
And if we were to rank in terms of,
I guess, if we were to measure the gap
between each of those movies,
Civil War to Avengers is modestly big.
Like, it's not that big, but it's...
Comparatively, I guess, yeah.
And then Avengers and Infinity War are really close for me.
And then endgame is moderately behind,
and then Ultron is just totally way, way back.
Ultron can be frustrating to watch.
I don't like any of the scenes with Ultron himself
because I just think of the potential.
Well, it's just like,
why didn't you make like seven really good versions of yourself?
You're like, they're not mean.
He literally destroys one of himself for no reason.
Yeah, he destroys one of the good ones.
It's like, oh, you damaged me.
It's like, yeah, but you're still pretty intact.
And the idea that he sent every single copy of himself to...
Fuck, where is it? Is it a covari?
Yeah.
Why didn't he like put at least a couple?
Just send them all over the place.
Come on. Why are you so stupid?
I just want to know how like Visions is just like,
oh, you shot me out of the internet.
It's like, what? How is that even an ability that you have?
The second you make him,
his intelligence is tantamount to like the internet.
He should be unstoppable, basically.
It's over. Yeah, it's over.
We're super retarded.
And then they're just like,
Vision looked at him funny and now he can't access the internet.
He's like, what? Where is that a rule?
I don't feel like that stupid scene with the revolt
where the camera's spinning around,
it's like, there were several times where Ultron,
like just straight up flies right above the button.
And it's just like, dude, just press it.
Like, why are you flying above it? Just press it.
Also, it's Ultron's device.
Why would he make it a possibility to do it remotely?
I would make it remote triggered, yeah.
We should stop talking about that, Phil.
Do you love the scenes with Hulk and Black Widow?
They're really great.
Oh, they pissed off so many people.
Oh. Have you massive seen the Morbius trailer?
Yes.
I haven't.
It looks fine.
The Morbius trailer?
Sony's Marvel Universe.
There is a mural of the Sam Ravey Spider-Man on the wall
in the background and Vulture from Homecoming, isn't it?
Is Sony prepping a little spider verse action
return of Toby? No idea.
We'll have to see what happens.
We haven't even confirmed that he's Vulture yet,
but I'd assume he is.
It seems likely.
And plus, we already know that Sony wants to do
like a Venom team up or something
or a Venom movie with Spider-Man in it.
Venom 2 is getting made right now.
Jay Longbun said,
Vision looked at him and he can't access the internet?
What?
It would be easier to take material of the ST
and rewrite it into something good than the PT.
PT needs to be redone from the ground up massives.
I just flip that around entirely.
Yeah, opposite way around.
The prequels need some work,
but the sequels, the premise is pretty bad.
Yeah, I don't understand how we work.
Like if someone said,
okay, you can rewrite the sequels,
but you have to keep that harm divorced layer
and their son went nuts because of an old man called Snoke.
And Luke tried to kill him.
And the first order of...
I was like, no, fuck all of that.
Screw that.
There's no Empire as well.
I know there's no Republic.
It gets wiped out in like a day.
So, all right.
For Clarity Mauler,
meme repository tweeted updated leaks on December 10th.
Those leaks were 95 to 99% accurate.
Fair enough.
Also high wags.
Let's rub our little doggo butts together.
Oh my God.
I'll keep that.
No, he's not here.
Oh man.
Oh, I'm keeping all of the high wags.
I'll have the accurate amount to say to him
when he ever gets back next episode or whatever.
Just kind of list and make him say hello to each one.
As Caesar Augustus, I need your help, son.
Episode three, lol.
I don't know what to make of that.
I'm afraid I may have lost the context.
I was behind in the stream but wanted to add this.
In the extended universe,
specifically the old Republic,
droids are memory wiped often
to help prevent them from developing errant personalities.
Also, droids you meet in the Kotal games
have wild personality traits and even some PTSD.
It's essentially advanced AI
but kept in control with memory wipes.
Maybe they shouldn't have like that explanation
but maybe in Star Wars,
it's probably not a good idea to explain it at all
because there'll be something that contradicts that.
Yeah, I don't know how I feel about it
because I think that it's-
I've always played hard and loose with it, I think.
Fast and loose, sorry.
It's a bit of a-
We start to question the characters
not dealing with this sort of thing.
I don't want to go there.
Star Wars isn't going there.
We're too busy with other stuff.
I think that's an interesting thing
to explore in something that isn't a big mainstream property
but yeah, you probably don't want to ask those questions
about that sentence.
I wish Jumanji 2 released next to TROS.
Good film.
I've heard that it's entertaining.
I need to check that one out as well
because I like the first one enough.
Yeah, I haven't seen the first or the second.
So there we go, add it to the list.
When Hux said I'm the spy,
I laughed so hard and started imagining Hux as the TF2 spy
saying I am the spy.
Oh God, what a joke.
Yes, definitely a joke.
The Falcon survived Episode 9 to become Rey's ship.
Was it worth it?
Nope.
Rey has all of the items of interest of Star Wars.
She owns all of it.
She even took Poe's droid.
It's like, wow.
Oh God.
Oh yeah.
Wow.
She sucks.
She has all of it.
And then she throws them away.
It's like, oh my God.
Can you please watch Patrick Explains Blade 2?
Do I have to watch Patrick one of those videos?
I feel like it's bad for you.
Minimal exposure.
Dude, you kind of watch movie Bob videos.
How could you not put up with Patrick Willems?
Fine.
Because he is probably better than movie Bob, actually.
I'd give him that.
Movie Bob's tweets, by the way.
I'm not sure if this is being talked about.
Oh my God.
His tweets.
It's like he thinks, if I make the sentence long,
it's a really smart, good sentence.
Sometimes you can put full stop.
Yeah, the way he writes.
They just keep going.
He confuses the fuck out of everybody on Twitter with his sentences.
What the hell are you saying?
And he's probably like, oh, well, you know, that's because you're stupid.
And it's like, no, man, please just put a full stop.
Sentences aren't meant to last forever.
Can't believe the Oscars nominated the most mediocre Star Wars score from episode nine
and not nominating the Irishman score with its memorable creepy tone.
Star Wars gets nominated sort of.
It's kind of like obligatory, I'd say like, you know, you have to.
And plus, like John Williams is a very talented composer,
even though obviously I think the the latest stuff has just been not as great.
Oh, good.
I caught you guys live.
Now I can tell you that the best media of Scooby Doo is the mystery incorporated TV show iteration.
And, uh, fair enough.
Also, look how convenient this is.
Also desk bullshit.
Any hype for Half-Life Alex?
Yeah, I'm going to get it.
I have a HD survive and I'm ready to go.
I am really interested in that one.
I think that might be the one to kick off VR.
I think so.
I think that's what they're going for.
Well, it makes sense because it's like the first sequence of this long.
I feel like that's why they made it.
This was it like they were like, what can we do?
It's like, let's do it with Half-Life.
That'll get people to buy it.
It's like, oh, that's me.
Well, I think I mean, there might be a cynical way to view it,
but I think it's also a way of like, all right.
So if we did like Half-Life 3 out the bat, everybody's going to have sky high expectations.
So what can we do that's going to be interesting and cool
that people won't expect?
And maybe it will change how they expect, you know, what their expectations are.
And if you make it a like a the game that they're making,
I think that that's definitely going to help them out.
Yeah, they could not do Half-Life 3 the way they do that.
They they decided to do the side on.
So yeah, and I'm hoping I'm hoping that that will indicate
that Valve want to make some more video games, you know, that might be nice.
Unlikely.
It is unlikely.
I think I think I think everybody's given up on that.
Yeah, they're certainly about hardware now.
Well, I guess there was an article that came out recently
that said that they weren't making Left 4 Dead 3.
There were some rumors and they just totally squashed that.
Like, yeah, they squashed that.
Yeah, and I guess Portal 3 is probably not even a possibility.
What could you possibly do with Portal at this point?
I think all you could do is make Portal 2 again.
And I think the way they ended it seemed to indicate that they weren't going to do it again.
They were like, yeah, they might want to own just
the fact that they're not like to kick on with the story is going to be very complicated.
So they could just own being like, oh, it's just here's some more
fucking task groups.
Whatever.
They can make a new IP.
Yeah, that's exactly what I was about to say.
And I think that they could.
I think that they should.
It seems like a lot of our developers I've heard that
Naughty Dog's going to be making a new IP for PS5.
And that's curious Santa Monica is going to be making a new IP for PS5.
And I think there was another one like, oh, I was playing XCOM 2 earlier.
I'm like, oh, I wonder what Firaxis is making.
And apparently they're making a new IP, which is cool.
Yeah.
So in addition to that Oscar score thing, they said, oh, an MKT Revenge of the Sith back in 2005?
I don't know what that means.
MKT.
Ah, okay.
I don't know if Revenge of the Sith won an Oscar for its soundtrack back in 2005 or not.
Oh, deserved it if it did.
Definitely deserved it if it did win that.
MovieBob acts like words don't exist.
So they don't work on where to put it.
Anyone here looking forward to Half-Life Alyx?
Hey, that got answered.
Hey, yes.
Well, just in case.
Yes, I am.
I sure am.
Ray didn't put those lightsabers in a box just in the sand.
She couldn't even wrap them up.
She put them in like a little thing.
But yes.
Little rappy.
Little bitch.
I know.
Bone works.
Man, Halo Rage has awesome spawns, you guys.
I love spawning and getting assassinated straight away.
Are you playing Reach right now?
Oh, you are playing Reach right now.
I am, yeah.
That needs to add a new game in, because I'm getting sick of getting spawned and killed.
I'm sick of high noon.
I'm sick of being able to play DB.
Uh, Bone Works is the VR seller for me.
Don't need Half-Life Alyx.
I played Bone Works.
That's interesting.
I like that.
I haven't finished it because I was playing it on an index elsewhere.
I don't own the index.
It's kind of expensive right now.
But I played that.
Pretty interesting.
I like it.
That game was developed by one of the guys who was, you know,
like the Freddie Wong, like early on, wasn't it?
No kidding.
Brandon.
I think so.
I think it was.
Interesting.
Yeah, because the gunplay in the game is, it's pretty detailed,
but it definitely feels like Portal.
So I think a lot of people would feel pretty good about Bone Works
if they're really trying to get a Half-Life game going.
Definitely has a Port of View.
Okay.
The composing of Episode 9 was lame.
It's like Williams said heck it.
That scene when Rey was fighting the gods, the music was Harry Potter happy-ish.
I'm not sure that he got much time from what I understand.
I don't think that he got much time.
Was it his son that finished it or his brother or something?
I think his brother helped him, but I'm pretty sure that, yeah,
like I'm pretty sure he just didn't get much time because I think this film like
wrapped production a lot later than the other two did, you know,
in terms of how close it was to release.
Probably because that film has looked very different over the course of the
months it was being made.
Oh yeah, of course.
Like whatever the final cut was probably wasn't there for a long time, whereas I'm pretty sure.
That whole Sons of Mortis or whatever it was with Matt Smith,
like there was that whole other film that was going to happen.
And I don't know if they actually filmed it or not, but yeah.
Well, they did do reshoots, I think.
I mean, reshoots are common, but yeah, they did do reshoots.
Disney reshoots means we're doing the film again.
Okay.
The ultimate Mary Sue.
She has both the big bad and the good guy's name slash legacy.
She's the ultimate Jedi.
She has both a unique lightsaber and Anakin's the Millennium Falcon,
Chewie and all the droids.
They gave it fucking everything.
Hey man, she earned it.
Okay.
I mean, she she did technically because she beat all the Sith.
What a stupid wife.
She just kind of flicked him across the board.
I like how he didn't stop shooting lightning, even though it was killing him.
I would like it if he was like, why did two lightsabers make a difference?
What is that?
That doesn't make any sense.
I was like, he didn't learn his lesson.
Yeah.
He talks a boss and it didn't sink in, you know, the definition of insanity.
You know, it's like, I don't know why did he keep doing it?
He's either say it or retarded either way.
I still like the theory where it's like he's missing and he can't just
he can't just stop pissing halfway through.
Yeah, droids are basically aborted because that's the solution to avoid committing a
slavery, kill them before they become sapient sentient beings repeatedly.
But you're right that it isn't really great for a mainline story.
That's what I mean.
It's just Star Wars isn't equipped to deal with that.
I think right now you'd have to have like a film about that probably,
because that's going to be heavy stuff.
Don't want to acknowledge that.
Like, oh, it's you've been trapped in a box that we could erase.
Yeah, like it's a great topic, but it's not a great topic for something
that's very casual and loose with that kind of thing.
Please rank the crisis on Infinite Earths by Earth number.
In other words, which Earth is the most boned?
Whichever one died first out of infinity.
That one was the most boned.
That show.
A chat or back.
A chat or so back.
I said, hello, wags, backwards, just in case it was confusing.
Sorry if it was on the subject.
How is Rags doing?
I guess I will keep that one.
He's drunk and sleeping soundly.
I just like to add that I love how random it is that
Shad is a member of the toxic brood.
Yeah, not sure how that happened, really.
It just did, though.
Yeah.
Just really no telling who we meet these days.
You hear of Star Wars and people together?
I didn't think for a second that I'd be talking to E.R., but here we are, man.
John Williams scores need the director to cooperate with John, unlike JJ,
so they can pace the scene and music to each other.
Even in TFA, you could notice the songs looped,
but did not crescendo or climax because the music had to be able to go anywhere.
Generally, what you do find with a lot of property,
like a lot of projects, is that the more involved the composer is in the actual production.
I mean, like Marty O'Donnell was in-house at Bungie and it shows
because a lot of the music is synced specifically with certain beats.
That's probably wasn't there a behind the scenes video of George Lucas scoring
the jewel of the facts and he's, you know, talking to George Lucas while he's doing it?
Yeah, and as that video, there's that apparently John Williams was going to take the choir out of
jewel of the fates and George told him to keep it in, which is hilarious to think about.
Wow, considering what everybody says about George Lucas's sort of decisions with the prequels.
Yeah, there's the narrative that, you know what, there's probably none of it to do with him.
Just like, come on now, I mean.
I guess the thing is, I've heard a lot of people say that he was surrounded by yes men,
but I've heard and I've seen stuff that would indicate that he was surrounded
by people who were constantly challenging him.
So, I mean, I wouldn't know, right? Like, I don't know. What can I base it on exactly? I don't know.
Yeah, isn't it weird how Russian bots have such great taste in movies?
Yeah, they know what's up. You should just follow Roshan.
Russian bot accounts and find out what movies to watch.
I find it very interesting that Russia is like the new big bad again. It's like we've come full circle.
Yeah, Russia.
F for Palpatine died for our sins. OT son of the chosen one wins ST daughter of Satan wins.
It makes sense. She earned it.
Zaps the sky. Ultimate power. Yeah.
Ray going full Kirito. Kirito mode made me laugh.
Oh, he's referring to Sword Art Online Kirito, the main character,
also a Mary Sue character in their own series.
Oh, there's a question for Shad I shall keep.
Thanks for the stream. I'll have to catch it all on Mula.
Hi Shad, I liked your book. Would you let JJ from Orion Johnson make its movie to keep that for him as well?
Imagine we can get a funny answer for that one.
Mary Xmas fandom menace. Mary Xmas.
I guess this was like either before or after Christmas. I don't know. This could still be New
Year's then. I'm joking. Don't let them near your book. Oh.
Okay, I guess I'll add that on.
Look up best lightsaber Iraq is Marin. Okay.
Oh, that's good looking.
What are you seeing?
Like a body armor set of lightsabers.
What the fuck?
That's so goofy.
Yeah, it's stupid.
It's like he crosses his arms and he cuts several chunks of it.
I feel like it's got to be risky as fuck.
Dude, he's got sabers coming out of his kneecaps.
So that's the stupidest shit I've ever seen.
Clearly Shad needs to make a video on that.
Oh my God. Just on that image alone, he winds up with an hour.
The viability needs to be assessed.
I don't know. That's dumber than the stupid non-chuck lightsaber.
Yeah, probably.
Uh, question for all present.
If you had unlimited time plus money, who would you hire as director and writer for your own movie?
You get full control and you can direct such writer if you choose.
Still pick someone as an advisor in this case.
For me, it would be Sam S. Mail from Mr. Robot.
Oh, have you watched Mr. Robot?
No, that's, that's, that's the question.
Oh, for a second one. Oh, I thought you hadn't watched the show.
Yeah, no. Uh, I don't know.
For me, who director, writer, combo someone I can work with,
I might just like immediately go with Edgar Wright.
That's a good choice.
Uh, Quentin Tarantino would probably be my pick for that one.
Like he wouldn't be very cooperative.
Like it would be his way or the highway.
The idea was that he could be, well, they said an advisor, right?
If there could be an advisor, because yeah, I would say that I probably wouldn't pick him up
to write and direct Mike because he probably wouldn't accept that.
He wouldn't do that, I don't think.
But I'm not sure how many writer directors.
Yeah, that's, that's why I'm not thinking about it like that.
I don't think a lot of writer directors would be keen on doing someone else's idea.
Any other ideas?
Maybe, maybe Jackson?
Yeah, I think that's a fair one.
Mike Flanagan, I wouldn't mind working with him.
We're directing.
Steven Spielberg is probably a cool one, I think.
Christopher Nolan, but yeah, I mean, I probably wouldn't, you know,
take much of his ideas of a character that needs.
What about, um, what about why, uh, Joss Whedon, maybe more low?
Would you?
Yes.
I don't know what to expect though.
I mean, if I could pick a timeframe, we'll just go with when he was making Buffy and
block him out of that.
Okay.
Is, uh, I don't know.
I don't know what he's up to these days.
He's making a TV show right now.
I'll definitely watch it when it comes out.
Is, uh, oh, okay.
I think he's right about acting.
She picked, she had your Abrams.
No.
Yeah, sorry.
I don't have an answer for this one because I don't really have a favorite director that
I've really considered not like watch movies, but not enough to really study on directors and
choose which one I will follow.
If, if we're an animated movie, I'd want to get Chuck Jones.
Chuck Jones.
I don't want to get, yeah.
Um, oh, do you know who he is or?
Yeah, of course I do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was back because I was like, of course.
Yeah.
No, that's, um, that'd be a good one or maybe like, uh, maybe Brad Bird as well for an
animated movie.
Yeah.
It could work.
If you can pluck them out, the lion giant, Incredibles one era or Ratatouille as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Brad Bird's good.
My God.
What are we supposed to do with that question?
What are the components of a good fight scene?
Believable choreography.
Yeah.
I'd say that's a big one.
I'd say another important one is that the characters, there's like an actual motivations
of the fight beyond let's kill each other generally helps.
Yeah.
Believable choreography and the lack of camera cuts.
Too many camera cuts.
Yeah.
Ruins a cut.
Get some creative filming going.
Don't go with the fast cuts and zoomed in.
Yep.
Um, a fight that isn't superfluous, something that you can cut out or have it be replaced
by somebody saying these two characters fought like a fight scene that you need to see.
Consider having highs and lows, uh, in terms of like pacing, like things are really fast
and then they slow down for a bit and they go back up.
I guess look at the raid too and look at how they did the fight scenes and then just do what they did.
And yes, uh, head met wall.
Good, good point.
Make sure your weapons don't disappear.
That's a plus.
That's a plus.
Also don't, don't do a bunch of throwing knives and then
like an axe that gets thrown right at the end of the scene.
Entire Mustafar duel was discussed with Spielberg.
Cool.
I don't know that.
If true.
Uh, rise of Skywalker, Ray low fight on two different places.
Same time.
How I don't know.
I don't know.
Any of that works.
Please rank the following epap debates by best argumentation skills.
Just right.
Major Lee.
Yes.
So Major Lee was easily the worst out of the three.
He was very bad at arguing.
And what I mean is argumentation skill, not quality of like,
it was like Yezan wasn't too bad at generating arguments.
They were just insane as in like, uh, Daenerys is crazy.
How do you prove this?
She, uh, walked into fire in season one and it was like, but she knew it wouldn't burn it.
Didn't know that for sure.
Like, you know that as you're walking into the fire that it's not burning you.
And so you would continue.
And then he was just like, nope, nope, that's not that doesn't.
Nope.
She was crazy to do it.
And that means she was crazy in the last season too, which is consistent.
Like that would just stay on that.
While Major Lee would be like, Oh, was wrong in the opening of TLJ.
You'd be like, no, he's not.
He's like, well, Leia slapped him.
It's like, that doesn't mean he's wrong.
He's like, and then just, just right.
Did a lot of the, um, um, well,
I, yeah, I find that when somebody's laughing in the debate, it's like,
Oh, you're buying time.
You're like trying to think of something.
Yeah.
So I guess, uh, best argumentation skills.
You know what?
I'm going to give it to just right as top.
Then yes.
And then majorly that's, that's, that's my experience.
Well, uh, all springy church scene in Kingsman.
Um, I mean, that was the, that was insane.
Wait, what is it?
What does that scene counter that you said though?
I said that you should look at the right to as an example.
I can't find big team.
I, I was, I was, um, I was saying that the rates who was a good example of, uh,
just generally the good things that you should be doing a fight scene, uh, maybe,
maybe divorced from the story aspects.
And I don't think story is very important, but there's a lot of long cuts,
really good choreography highs and lows and different techniques and different
weapons and it's a lot of variety.
Um, the Kingsman fights really good though.
So I love the choice.
Yeah, it was great.
That's the backdrop to one of the fucking craziestly
animated memes that we ever had as well.
Yeah.
You had to keep pausing that thing to see all of the inside jokes.
And they all made so many references.
The world's had answer had some really good fight scenes as well.
Um, like the, the one in the bathroom or the one in the bar where like,
Oh yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
Where Simon pegs trying to hold onto his drink and he's fighting all these dudes
and as soon as he's about to take the last sip, it gets knocked out of his hands.
Like, Oh, for fuck sake.
I would have to go back and watch, uh, the protector with a Tony jaw.
I mean, that, that movie was terrible in terms of writing, but the fight scenes,
like they had to send actors to the hospital over and over again for that one.
And you can kind of see it because they're really kicking the hell out of them.
I don't know how well that stood to test of time, but, uh, I remember that pretty fondly.
Oh, it's out of, it would be another good one for the hallway fight scenes.
Oh dude.
Yeah.
Daredevil, the Daredevil show dude, fucking the most recent season of Daredevil had an
11 minute fight scene with one camera.
Yeah.
No cuts either.
There were no cuts.
No, there were no cuts at all.
They put in like some spaces where they could cut if there was a mistake,
but they didn't need them.
11 straight minutes of a fight, a dialogue and an escape.
One fucking camera.
Yeah.
That was incredible.
It's like, um, every season they had to, cause the hallway fight in season one is really awesome.
And then in the second one, they have the bigger library one down the staircase with the chain.
Yeah, that one's really cool.
And then in season three, they're like, all right, so how do we top that?
All right.
11 bit at fight scene.
Then they were like, how do we top that in season four?
Oh, I would love to have seen what they would have done.
Oh, just watch the one entire episode is one camera.
Yeah.
That'd be cool.
Or like a fight where, um, it's one cut, like there's, there's no cuts and it's maybe like
dead, Evelyn bulls-eye fighting each other.
And then there's like a wall in the action and then they fight again.
Oh, what could it be?
Maybe in 2021, maybe.
Maybe.
Um, Iraq is Marin was basically forced Joffrey and possibly one of she's sheaves bastards.
He later sassed his lightsaber instructor and got lobotomized with a saber to the head.
His mum tried to save him, but he became a raging half mindless lightsaber need brute.
Okay.
Is that the guy in the chat?
That's the guy with the, the, the, the suit of lightsabers, I guess.
All right.
That seems very hazardous to give us.
Especially somebody's yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, another good one would be Christopher McQuarrie.
Mission possible fallout.
And to clarify the question, it could be two people, one writer and one director or a combo.
And for Fringy, my pick was Mr.
Robots, Sam S.
Mail, if he didn't catch it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
From the, uh, yeah.
Sam S.
Mail is a really good choice, especially well, no, for both.
He's, he's really good at both.
He's just very talented.
That's the thing.
I would probably like to function as, uh, like the writer with, uh, interest in,
you know, discussing and looking at the direction.
And then the, the director could do the same in reverse.
They'd be able to control.
I'm kind of the same.
I, I prefer to, I don't know enough about cinematography or, um,
at least like beyond the layman sort of understanding.
So I'd have to defer to somebody who knows better.
Merry Kwanzmas, guys.
Love your stuff.
Are there any stories in Extended Universe that would make for
actually interesting new trilogy?
I'm pretty sure people said Thrawn.
Thrawn was the easy answer for that.
Yeah, I like Thrawn.
Thrawn, um, I guess, does KOTOR count as, um, Extended Universe at this point?
I think I'm not sure that it's canon because KOTOR would probably be a good one.
Yeah, well, it's not canon anymore.
Disney made sure of that, I guess.
Such nice people.
One for Shad.
Babu Frick is dope and cute, but nothing on Baby Yoda.
Baby Yoda's, yeah.
Baby Yoda's pretty cute.
You all know this.
The five people in my theater lolled when we saw a Star Wars character named Babu.
It's a generic Indian word for sir, but also used as a surname in some parts of the country.
Also, wake up Jay and kick him.
He's not even here anymore.
How far back are these?
No, these are all, well, these are all from like a month ago upwards of now.
Like we're still pushing up.
This is, this is our overflow from several episodes.
There's just so many.
All right.
How many, how many more do you want to do?
I'm going to do as many as I can until I get really, really sleepy.
Obviously you guys can stay for as long as or as little you want.
There's no price.
Uh, now lightsabers can come in all six colors of the spectrum.
Fun fact, in Return of the Jedi, Luke's lightsaber was supposed to be blue,
but it didn't contrast well during the siege on Jabba's fleet.
I remember reading about that.
There are seven colors on the color spectrum.
That guy said six.
Who am I supposed to trust him or you?
Uh, okay.
So red, orange, yellow, blue, green.
No, it's all the colors of the rainbow.
So that's um, violet.
Yeah, seven.
It's definitely seven.
Uh, hold on.
I'm going to Google that.
I can't see it.
It's Roji Biv.
It's seven.
You're correct.
Uh, color spectrum.
It's seven.
Okay.
Yeah.
So the color spectrum is yes.
Seven colors.
Yeah.
Roji Biv.
Red, orange, yellow, green, green to go and violet.
We need to go violet.
Oh, you're wrong.
Wow.
Fucking that guy up.
He's going to come back in a super chat and years from now bringing and fuck you up.
All right.
He's going to be like, catch me out on one of the things I said that's wrong,
but that's going to be like six is seven.
If you think about it from a was back his point of view, it's just a point of view.
I, in my opinion, there are six colors and that's how opinions work.
Uh, Ray is so annoying during this movie.
Really can't stand his stupidity.
The stream's been great.
Happy holidays, guys.
Say hi to Wolf Forest.
Sure.
Sure.
I've seen fans talking about on other websites I've visited for years.
The toxic brood is larger than we realize.
Love you all.
And it just ends with rags.
Full stop.
Okay.
I'll keep that for him.
Mary Fatmus and a fappy new year.
You massives.
That's a good mess.
Happy new year.
They use time travel and rebels to save Ahsoka.
She wasn't dead at the end of the series.
Not even joking.
I said time travel in Star Wars canonically now because rebels is canon.
No one likes time travel.
Go away time travel.
It's funny because there's a lot of things that like, as much as I enjoy the Clone Wars to
summit.
Well, I said, yeah, I like the Clone Wars, but there's stuff in there that's canon.
That's like, that's a little bit goofy.
Anna's in charge.
She's saying that there are two more colors because you got black and white.
Well, black and white are shades.
So they're not really like on the color spectrum.
The color spectrum is
so like, so the color spectrum being, you know, like infrared, then you got like
visible color spectrum.
And then you have, I think UV x ray and gamma ray.
I think it's yeah.
So um, whereas black and white.
Yeah, they're just shades.
Yeah, and specifically, I think she might be confused.
We're not talking about the actual lightsabers from law.
We're talking about the color spectrum.
Well, I guess the guy said all the colors on the spectrum.
He doesn't say like, all the well, it depends on what she's referring to.
Um, unless she's referring to like, like RGB, and then you've got CMYK or, um, or, uh, what's
the other one?
HSL?
I don't know.
This is yeah, I'm not sure.
It might be that I'm not really that just not that invested anyway.
It's seven.
Okay.
Uh, Soko was confirmed alive after the Battle of Endor.
Shad, her species lives up to 80 years, force sensitive up to 200.
She'd be in her seventies by TROS.
Oh yeah.
Because she's dead because she's a force ghost.
Shad said that she should be dead anyway.
So I will save that for him.
Oh, no, there's no reason.
I mean, she was only like, she was a teenager in the Clone Wars and then plus 20 years and
then plus like 40 years.
Well, she could still be alive.
That's why I'm, I'll save it for him.
Well, in case that's what he said.
I can't remember if he was saying that.
Uh, do you, do a Soka survived her fight versus Vader with the help of time travel?
I'm not joking.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
And rebels.
I don't know, man.
Don't do time travel, please.
That's always girls in chat.
Please add it to the stream and ask you to rank the Star Trek TV series.
She has a show.
You could do that with like wanted to come on here to answer your questions or whatever.
Like, I totally add her if I was like, on my own right now.
It's just that I got three tisms already.
And if anything, I would kick one of these guys out, but I don't have the heart to do it.
That'd be mean.
I would be mean.
But I invited you all the same time.
So that's what happens.
Desperation cloying at company.
You know how it is.
Mm hmm.
Uh, Merry Christmas, you filthy masses.
Rah, don't throw Santa off the roof.
Here's to another year of molar eartisms and toxicness.
Thank you.
My friend just watched TLJ rip after I recently introduced him to you guys,
double ripped for time.
And he brought up a good point.
Who was the mole the First Order said they had in the rebels?
TLJ?
They say they have a mole.
I don't remember that.
Whatever happened to the guy that they met on Canto Bight,
I guess he just left.
Got stampeded.
I'm searching the script for the word mole and I'm not finding anything.
You just have the script TLJ on your computer.
Well, you type Star Wars, the Last Jedi script into Google and then.
I know.
Alt right.
YouTubers discuss color charts.
Of course, what we do.
Important.
Oh, yeah.
Anna said she's rated them on stream before.
Must get asked that a lot, I imagine, because there's just not
the Star Trek is starved on Efap because barely anyone's seen any of it.
Like rags are seen TNG, I think.
I have to basically any I know that I know that Next Generation is the one
that a lot of people consider to be really the best.
I think I think all I know.
I know the names of the shows because I know they're Star Trek,
Next Generation, Deep Space Nine, Voyager.
And then there's the new one Discovery that everybody seems to hate.
Yeah, everyone hates Discovery and Picard is looking like it's pissing
people off already as well.
Oh, yeah, I heard some people liked Picard.
I guess all I know is the Anna, Nodrotic and a few other people are very
unhappy with her already.
Doomcaw.
All right.
Well, yeah, Twitter thread about it last night.
Who did sorry?
Jay Longbone.
Oh, she's been watching it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm so sorry.
Assuming it's bad.
The one to the one referred to as torn cloth, I would like to extend an
enthusiastic and sincere greeting that may find you in the high spirits upon
this conceived live meeting of intellectual minded fellows.
Okay.
Okay.
I think that was a super chat from move Bob.
I'm not sure.
Thank you.
Just wanted to say thanks for validating my thoughts on all the terrible media
being tossed at us recently.
There were wags.
We'll keep that.
I have nothing to say about this soul crushing series.
So Merry Christmas and high ranks.
Another one.
Another one.
My premise of Star Wars, then having limited force potential frustrated
about not living up to his family's legacy.
Ray and actual nobody Padawan of Luke whom Luke favors over Ben leading to Ben's fall.
Oh, it could work.
Maybe anything else could work better.
Literally, other than what we got.
Shad is rise of Skywalker the pineapple on pizza of Star Wars.
I will save that for him.
The only way the sequels could be worse is if they built the plot around something
that entirely justifies the space Nazis like in Gundam unicorn.
Fuck Gundam unicorn.
I don't know all they do in Gundam unicorn.
But this guy didn't like it.
Yeah, fuck him, I guess.
Brinka needs to shill his books.
That's true.
You could you could do that on your fat books plural.
How many is he written?
I think two decent number of books.
No, he's written more than two.
I think he's written like six or seven.
Oh, well, I don't know how many he's written overall.
It's just on Twitter.
He said that he's got the two of them now are on available.
What I understand is that he's got a few that are now on audible.
But there's okay.
Yeah.
And I think I stumbled on that bike.
So I just saw him on Twitter said he had a book to him like,
wait, you write books out on and then just looked into it.
So a question.
What is the plan for the MCU without Thanos and Tony?
Surely of they were going to do a Galactus arc.
We would know about it by now.
It seems like they're just making movies just because they're going to
they'll drop a few hints in the next few movies for sure.
I imagine that they're going to because you probably don't want to
make an Avengers movie for a while.
If you want to make that sweet, sweet box office money.
Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if in the end credits of
after Marvel two Guardians three and fucking Doctor Strange two,
there's just bits and bobs of this planet being consumed.
You know, if they have it or something.
Maybe I'm almost certain they'll do Galactus, but who knows what they'll do.
Maybe Doom.
Well, I mean, I mean, yeah, dooms are they got they got a lot to pull from.
And now that they got X-Men as well, you can do.
I don't know.
You can do apocalypse, I guess.
Everything they built and all that.
Yeah.
They really ran that line into the ground, didn't they?
Who?
Yeah, I don't know what they're going to end up with out of that selection.
Maybe they'll just fucking go with Mephisto over that.
I have to introduce demons and hell and shit.
I don't know.
It could be fun.
We shall see.
Please rank the Skywalkers by force power in movie canon.
But why Anakin, Luke, Larry,
Oh, yeah, she's she's not actually a Skywalker.
Sorry.
I've been up.
Yeah, you'd fuck right off with that.
I guess she's on the bottom.
Then Luke, Leia, sorry.
Then Luke, then Anakin, then Ben, I guess, because Ben seems to be pretty fucking OP.
Sometimes.
I don't know.
It's kind of hard to rate his force power, actually.
Well, he can stop lasers, which is something we've never seen other force users do.
I mean, yeah, definitely didn't see that in the OT or the prequels.
It's just that it's a it's a relatively reasonable extension of what we understand.
It's just that that's pretty pretty pro seems to be.
Yeah, she's at the bottom, then layer, then probably Luke.
And then I don't know between Anakin and Ben.
I want to put Anakin at the top, obviously.
Kylo's a Kylo's tismy, so.
Yeah, but so that so right is definitely at the top of like,
Oh, yeah, Ray annihilates all of them.
She breaks the scale.
She's so much further up than all of them.
She's not fucking Skywalker.
Yes, she is.
I know she's not.
Yeah, is though.
Let her be true.
I would love to know how many people in theaters around the world groaned or said,
Oh, fuck you.
Who was the most inconsistent character?
I missed it due to a parade.
It was Ray.
Kylo is the most inconsistent, but Ray.
Yeah.
Yeah, it would have been Kylo, but he's disqualified.
Yeah, it was rain.
It was all because of her family.
I thought she was going to be called back very soon as but nope.
It was guaranteed to be a Kylo.
Like, there's just no question.
I don't know what to do with it.
It's so fucking confusing.
Also, play creation said Vader stopped lasers in his hand in ESP.
Not quite the same.
Like, lets it hit him and it blocks it sort of thing.
Like, Kylo keeps it in mid air for a while.
The kind of precision that would take.
I don't know the way I understand the force.
It was just it was obviously just for the flashy.
Like, it was like a fucking cool that is.
That's cool for sure.
But I imagine it does actually take more concentration to stop a bolt and to keep it there.
And it's weird because it implies that the momentum of it is still in action.
He's just frozen it almost in time because it flings into the.
So does he like broken the rules of physics and momentum?
Either that or he decided, you know what?
When I release it, I'm going to throw it over there.
According to Angry Jew, it's a good film.
Very entertaining if you turn your brain on.
Nice one rags.
You'll never be able to live that down.
I have two meme videos for you.
Check Twitter.
I hope you enjoy it.
Massives.
Hi rags and hello future me.
We may have reacted or not to them.
That's such an old one that I have no idea.
But as I said, we watched like 40 copyright videos that were memes with with Wolf.
And I thought, fuck it.
I'll try and upload it.
I got hit with like 30 claims.
It was hilarious.
But for some reason, none of them said it can't be viewed.
All of them said they get the money.
And so none of them get it.
As far as I know, with how it works, it's just like they're all.
Yeah, I think that's how it works.
If there's like a big old deadlock of several claims, just nobody gets anything.
And so, yeah, that should be able to come out now.
Theoretically, we'll have to see what happens.
And Wolf reading the Super Chats meant for him are all good to go as well.
Like I said, I'm not sure what I'm going to try and get those out as well as getting
the infinitisms out as well as getting obviously this part one part two efap out.
Lots of things on the way for the owl moolah channel.
No bullshit debates are gay.
Jared.
Oh, my God.
He's a queer.
Tywin Lannister is a homosexual.
The gay triad is complete.
I like how stupid no bullshit is.
He's one of the dumbest people in the world.
Like honestly, I don't.
I can't possibly.
Like I'm sure of that accolade you had to provide him.
He's so fucking stupid.
He's just so he.
Like I don't think I've ever seen someone who's so bad at arguing.
Yeah.
Please rank the Palpatines by force power.
Rey, Creamy Shoe.
Rey, number one.
Yeah, that's pretty easy.
I'd buy a considerable margin suit.
I like how we have like a zero to 100 scale.
She's on 100 and Palpatines are like one.
Well, you tried legally blonde unbridled praise when.
Oh, that's because I think I said I'd watch that.
I remember that it had Reese Witherspoon in it was.
Yeah, it did.
She became a lawyer to try and prove that she's not retarded.
I think was it right.
Someone like early 2000s comedy movie.
So yeah.
Finally, I'm free of this trilogy.
I couldn't have done it without you all.
I don't know, I guess.
Good stuff.
Yeah.
Palpatine survived the Death Star explosion by climbing into a 50s refrigerator.
Yeah, it makes the most sense.
I don't know.
Well, they're going to need to animate that now.
Everything was a dream afterward.
Wake up from the refrigerator and it was all a dream.
It was like, wait.
Bridge was really years ago.
Where do you guys stand?
Is rise worse than TLJ?
It's all up in the air right now.
It's just so hard to believe.
It's just this blur of bad.
Yeah, I've decided that TLJ is worst.
Now that we've established falling can't kill people in Star Wars,
I want the Lucas cut of TROS where Mace Windu breaks down the door to finally
drug Palpatine to stand, drag Palpatine to stand trial before the Senate.
No, you just kill him.
Stab the shit out of him.
Hello, Mauler.
What's your least favorite character from the Lord of the Rings movies?
Because a friend of mine said that Frodo is her least favorite
because he's whiny and a sissy, which I don't agree.
Aw, what?
Whiny and sissy.
Get out of here.
Least favorite character.
It's so hard to say a least favorite from Lord of the Rings.
They're all so good.
Yeah, I guess Denethal?
He's like an ass.
I mean, none of the main fellowship.
Absolutely not.
None of the main fellowship are on that list.
Denethal will be my pick until I can think of something better, I guess.
Or something worse in this context.
I can't say.
No, I can't say.
This just says good entertainment here.
All right, good stuff.
I'm glad.
How much has TFA part three been changed because of ROS?
Quite significant portions.
I'd say almost half.
Because this is the whole part where I start talking about
Kylo talking to this Tismy Vader mask, and now I actually have answers on whether or not it's
Vader's voice definitively.
So I have to rewrite that bit.
That's fucking stupid.
But hey, you know, I guess.
Next TROS stream can go over TLJ defender's tweets.
Oh, we've covered a couple of them here and there.
We've also covered a bunch of the videos.
It's been exciting, horrifying, whichever one you want to go with.
Also, people saying Greamer has an option.
The reason I'm not as willing to choose him is because he has a small bit of redemption.
You know, the stab at you with Mr. Staromant.
Maybe they would have ruined it more about Disney who ruined everything.
They've made some stuff at some point that's not horrible.
Disney.
Oh, of course they have.
It's been a while now.
Wow.
Yeah.
I mean, when it comes to, yeah, it has.
Yeah.
When you think about it, yeah.
What was the last excellent Pixar movie?
Probably Wally.
Yeah.
I'm not sure that I'd put anything else between there that I would consider to be excellent.
Yeah, I wouldn't know what else.
I think some people really liked Inside Out.
I mean, I like Inside Out, like I enjoyed it.
But yeah, there was stuff about Inside Out that I just didn't think was very well done.
But I haven't watched it in a while.
So yeah.
What about Disney's like main animation studio?
What have they done?
Oh, I'm obviously up.
A lot of people like to reference to.
I like that.
Yeah, but I do.
Well, the thing is, I'm not saying that the ones that came afterwards were bad.
I think there are some good ones in there.
I just don't think that they've reached the same level of quality.
Yeah, that's what I would say.
Yeah, I can agree with that.
Jay is right.
I have a live in position, live in a position as a nurse on the weekend.
24 hour shift includes sleep.
Hug Jay.
Thank you guys for the content.
Hi, Moolah.
Hello.
I was the one that suggested that it included sleep.
Jay.
Boo to Jay.
Even though he probably suggested it too, but still boo to Jay.
Boo.
Boo.
Don't hug Jay.
I say that TLJ is worse because I had to fight sleep in the middle of that one.
I don't know.
That could be considered a positive.
I don't know if that's a good argument.
I guess it is the longest.
I think it's the longest, yeah.
TLJ.
Wait, no.
It was?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's true enough.
Still keeps that title.
Yeah, no, you're right.
You're right.
I use, I watched named Yumfa made his own song.
Then used the copyright deadlock by copyright claiming his own song
so he could use copyrighted material in his videos and still make some money.
YouTube.
Yeah, I've heard about that.
That's brilliant.
Wow.
This system is fucked, isn't it?
It's so fucked.
What's that?
One of the Knights of Ren carried Gimli's War Axe.
I imagine it's something that looks similar, I guess.
But if Kylo knew Rey was going to the Death Star,
it means he knew the tracker thing was there.
Why didn't he take it earlier?
I don't think we knew that.
He just, he was following her and I suppose the film would try and argue
that he didn't know which specific room on the Death Star
it was in, which is dumb as fuck, because they would have
searched the shit out of that place by now.
And the fact that it's probably in the first place you'd think to look,
you're like right next to the Emperor's Throne room, maybe?
Oh, look, there it is.
But yeah, no, a lot of it doesn't make any sense.
Let's put the whole characters thing aside.
There are two major lautisms in TLJ.
The Holdo Sacrifice and Yoda Lightning in TROS has at least like 10.
Well, that's why I said space battles were destroyed by TLJ
and force ghosts, but the force in general is destroyed by TROS.
And a majority of the biggest tisms of TROS can come down to basically fucking with the force.
You got the healing, the teleport, the Skype call fights,
the healing people to life, like all of them are the force.
And they really fucking ran with it in that film, didn't they?
And I like how the people who used to say like,
you won't let the force evolve about TLJ.
In this one they're like, no, you went too far.
Huh? You hypocrites.
Let it evolve, you pieces of shit.
Dear chat, can I get a I know for those brave gentlemen
for watching all the Disney trilogy and actually paying for a ticket?
Shame on you, you gave Disney even more money.
Unlimited power, zap.
I didn't do that shit.
I mean, I would always feel justified that I stopped a whole bunch of people
from having watched it.
Therefore, I think I'm it's a net game.
Is it true?
I view the new trilogy like a highway pile up.
That's very generous of you.
I got to love how they keep poaching from the EU.
Yeah, a lot of people usually cite that.
It's like there's this story that basically photocopied it and it looks like shit.
After decanalizing it and then claiming they have nothing to work with
because that's just that's what they do.
I love that statement.
So we have nothing to work with.
It's like pretty much like that.
I don't even know what it's taught.
Lamma's laptop.
Is this supposed to be Alfred?
Fucking Ralph video.
Is this supposed to be Alfred?
He punched him.
He's cartoony character punched him for no reason.
For no reason.
Didn't small ships need those ring things from the prequels to hyperspace?
I mean, Obi-Wan's ship did.
But you wouldn't necessarily be limited to that.
With every...
There's a lot of tismy stuff because like as people pointed out,
TIE fighters aren't supposed to be able to go to hyperspace
but they just do in the sequel films.
Then...
I don't know, man.
I have to keep track of all of this.
So fucked.
I guess there are now two Sith homeworlds as Korriban.
The original Sith homeworld is in Clone Wars, which is canon.
Also high rages.
Like Korriban?
Korriban.
I think they've changed the name though to like something else.
I'm pretty sure they have.
I like the name.
Korriban.
Yeah, the name's cool.
Korriban.
Korriban.
Yeah.
He left this name.
So is this an out-of-season April Fool's joke?
I don't know what I was referencing.
I'm going to assume it was the movie.
Uh, that's Doom Eternal.
No, I'm referencing...
Not Doom Eternal.
What the hell, Diablo?
Yeah, but I'm talking about what it was referencing in, you know, like...
I...
What they were talking...
Where were they?
They brought the context to elsewhere.
What the hell did they say, Doom Eternal?
I don't know, man.
You're looking forward to that.
Dude, it sounds good.
Yeah, man.
I'm really excited for that one.
Your take on the old, new, female Fight Club reboot?
That thing.
What?
Are you fucking kidding me?
That has to be a lie.
Please tell me that that's not...
Dude.
I can't remember something about this.
Oh my god.
No, come on.
But like, aren't women pissed about this?
It's like, we have to do what...
We have to do what they did, except with women.
It's like, make your own fucking movie.
It'll be fine.
Fight Club was specifically about men.
This isn't like some other thing where you just swapped it.
Like, this movie was about men.
An indie film coming out in 2020 called Chick Fight tells the story of an all-female Fight Club,
and we're intrigued.
The new movie will star Malin Ackerman, Bella Thorne, and Alec Baldwin.
Okay, so they're not just remaking Fight Club with women.
It's just going to be...
It's called Chick Fight.
Okay, that's fine.
But as long as there's not some Tyler Durden knockoff.
Yeah, as long as there's not Tyler Durden or some shit.
You're giving them ideas.
People saying...
As long as they don't do that.
People saying JJ tried.
He tried to get more money.
Ah, fuck him.
He was successful.
He got more money.
Fuck him.
So how'd that do in the box office anyway?
It's not a billion, but it's definitely not performed how they wanted it to.
They made a billion.
Yeah, but that doesn't mean anything.
Didn't Force of Waco make two billion?
Force of Waco made two billion dollars.
And plus opportunity cost and plus what you projected.
Like, yeah, it's not a good...
It should theoretically have been above two billion.
So yeah, that goes to show what they did.
Yeah, it's funny because a lot of people look at it and go,
this is the rise of Skywalker being bad, but nobody wants to say,
well, maybe TLJ hurt all future box office for our Star Wars.
I mean, that's always what we theorize.
The damage will be seen after it.
We saw a little bit in Solo, obviously.
Oh, you were reactionary.
And look at how that went for you.
It's like, no, guys, there was no winning this one, I don't think.
Well, this still parroting that it's going to age well.
That movie is like, no.
2615 in the EU, there was a Star Destroyer with a mini Death Star dish,
except it could only crack a continent.
Even the EU's Tisms had more common sense than Rise of Skywalker.
I mean, yeah, that's more reasonable, but that's still kind of bad.
I don't want it.
Yeah.
Because it's just like, okay, so stack a whole bunch of them at once.
Can you blow up a planet then?
It's like, oh, don't do it.
Don't do it.
So, yeah, would you keep Korra single at the end of Legend of Korra
or have her get with someone like gay?
Question is, I would tear up with anybody that would just be too mean.
If it's the latter, would it be Bolin, Marco, Asami, or a new character?
At least with Bolin, we saw them go out on a date.
Maybe just keep her with Marco, I guess.
But it would, yeah, it's just too stupid, either way.
It's making you sick just thinking about it.
Yeah.
Matchmaker ER.
Give up on Star Wars after Rogue One, Mino Suffer.
Oh, they gave up on it after that, yeah.
You still suffer through TFA, so ha.
Palp said cheating death was a power only one has achieved.
Was he referring to himself already knowing that power?
Also, does this tie the prequels good in general?
Wait, are you saying that that helps the prequels by having that happen in the sequels?
No.
I don't see how it helps at all.
Yeah, I was just saying no.
Anyone else feel like they were missing scenes?
Oh, and Ryder Skywalker, for sure.
Oh, god, yeah.
It was clearly a whole set thing cut with the genre girl.
With Lando, that was super awkward.
Admitting the Force thing from Finn.
Yeah.
I subscribed today and turned on notifications.
I thought I was subscribed.
What a freaking idiot I am, gentlemen.
Thank you for the entertainment.
No problemo.
Subjectively, is seven, eight, or nine worst off the top of your head?
Strictly from enjoyment.
Eight is the, TLJ is the worst for me in terms of enjoyment.
Yep.
Yeah, for enjoyment, I would say that too.
The fucking dour and the counter bite bullshit last like 10 years.
This efap is brought to you from Raid Shadow Legends.
Oh, my goodness.
There's 10 million downloads.
And it's got epic, super cool graphics.
Tell me about the best part.
And it's gotten immersed.
And the best part is free.
Oh, my god, it's free.
Play with me on my account that I definitely use.
You know, those deals that they're getting are really lucrative.
I'm tired of JJ wasn't left any notes or Johnson wasn't left any notes thing.
Ridley Scott didn't leave any notes to Cameron, yet he made a superior sequel.
Ooh, careful, piss off a lot of people.
Don't say that's a rise and fist.
Don't say that to a lot of people.
A lot of people are very sensitive about the alien versus aliens debate will forever never end.
But no, I agree.
Like aliens is a fantastic sequel, considering everything, you know, if that was to happen today,
I'd be like, no, they'll fuck it up.
They'll absolutely fuck it up.
Just completely fuck it up.
Chick-Fi is apparently a comedy, though.
The funniest thing is somebody already owns chick fight.com and it's what you think it is.
Oh, that makes sense.
Oh, that makes sense.
Worst build up to pay off ratio, white walkers or first order?
White walkers.
No question.
Yeah, first order is no, no.
First order would even built up.
They always weren't interesting.
They were just there.
It was like, oh, hey, okay.
Even the continent cracker ship Eclipse was like a thicker version of the Super Star
Destroyer to mount that super laser.
It also used to be twice the length of the executor, but the executor got buffed with
the Eclipse didn't, so it's just thick, not longer.
Okay, that's fine.
Do you think it'd be better or worse if Ray parted the water up to the Death Star,
ala Moses?
I mean, why not?
Why the fuck not?
At this point, yeah.
I'd certainly laugh my ass over it.
I had chaps.
Pretty sure Luke uses light speed in the OT to get to and from Dagobah.
Merry Christmas to all.
I'm pretty sure everyone's fine with X-Wings having
hyperspace because they use, they definitely use them a bunch in,
don't they use them in A New Hope to get to the desk?
No, they don't use it in that because they,
I don't think there's ever an X-Wing doing it in A New Hope,
but I should tell them use it in Return of the Jedi for sure.
So we have to, like we're all, I think everyone's okay with X-Wings
having the ability to go into hyperspace.
It was, it was TIE fighters specifically, I believe, but perhaps it was a misspeak.
Vitiate, or Vitiate, Vitiate, the Old Republic Sith Emperor called thousands of Sith to a planet
and then conducted a ritual to sacrifice everyone on the planet for immortality.
Sounds like a reasonable cost.
Good for him, I guess.
Yeah, I love Disrael and the Jedi.
I don't know what in the EU that's probably referencing.
Will this Super Chappie read on the 67th, I wonder?
The 67th?
Try 70th.
That's what he got read out.
Also, now that you've watched TROS, you have no more excuses to avoid hardcore Henry, you dumbos.
Oh, it's that guy again.
We got loads of films to watch.
Oh, shit.
On the list.
I've got hardcore Henry and I keep forgetting to watch it.
I think I might just make these 70 and 71 because we basically cover all of Ralph's video
in the first portion, and this is all Super Chance, so it makes sense.
In terms of splitting them up, it's just a bit of Ralph at the beginning of this one.
Whoever said Aliens is better than Alien, fight me IRL.
I train UFC, you fig tree.
You didn't stand a chance.
Sree, oh, you don't stand a chance.
Indiana Jones and the last Star Wars lore in Fortnite.
Yeah, that's how you know that we're in a great position in terms of media right now.
Very, very fantastic.
Are you happy?
Quick, play Porken's theme.
Porken's theme be.
Oh, what would Porken's theme even be?
One for the for the annals of history, I suppose.
A whole movie doesn't make Babu freaking sense.
Got him.
Got him.
This trilogy was the execution of Count Dooku, the red lightsaber was the last Jedi,
the blue lightsaber was the rise of Skywalker, and Count Dooku was a fan base.
And it was split into a body and a head, I suppose.
Is this something there metaphorically, I think?
Yeah, good to see you guys are still at it.
Now we'll see if you are still around once I'm done running errands.
Stay along my endwards.
Yes, ma'am.
It's just a movie about space wizards made for kids.
I'd never show my kids these movies as they are insulting on so many levels.
Don't want your kids to be dumb.
They're meant for those children.
Gosh, darn it.
Mola, have you seen a philosophy of Kreia video?
So I don't really want to watch that until I play the Kotal games.
And I don't know when I'm going to play them.
So it's an infinite cycle, I suppose.
But I know of them.
Who's your friend that just won't die?
Palpatine.
Yeah, pretty much.
That could be a decent sort of.
It's like a sitcom.
Yeah, sitcom thing.
My roommate liked DLJ and hated Solo.
He thinks the fans ruined Star Wars.
I shared the Ray Palpatine spoiler and he hated it.
Said he's basically done.
A lot of people are.
Hooey, those leaks, man.
The end of the DT has brought back a lot of prequel haters.
Plink it, backlash when?
Oh, the Disney trilogy that was.
I mean, I don't know what's good.
The conversation about all of the saga is fucking insane at this point,
in terms of figuring out just how good all of them are.
Because there was a set of essays that came out,
I think I mentioned this before, about how TLJ was better than we thought.
It's like, it wasn't.
Yes, it was, though.
No.
Are they gonna Plink it?
Are they done doing Plink it?
I don't think so.
I think he's still going.
Just really slow on delivery, which is not something I can complain about, nor can he are.
Yeah, I mean, the title of the Last Jedi video seemed concerning to me.
Is that the last Plink it review?
And I'm wondering, hmm, is that subtlety?
Yeah, I think he did say, wasn't the end of that just that he was done?
Yeah, and he said that he recommended boycotting the next film.
But we'll see, we'll see.
Cots.
I just got back from seeing TROS again.
I've been dead before, caused two people to burst out laughing behind me.
Why did you see it again?
Yeah.
Well, we had one, but all right.
I told horns.
Maybe he was forced to.
Maybe.
Forced.
The force brought him.
I get it.
This trilogy can be summed up perfectly by Han Solo himself saying that's not how the force works.
Pretty much.
TROS ripped off the Goonies with that knife shit.
Agreed.
Hello, everyone.
Hello.
Mola, did you see the animation Palpatine's journey?
It's pretty funny.
I did.
It's great.
Oh, is that the one where he gets dumped out of the ship?
Yeah.
Yoda, you old sponge.
Dad, I would like you to be.
I'm writing this at 6 a.m. in Sweden.
Having been up, having a blast listening the entire time.
Can't wait for the IHE video to be released.
Also high rag.
Yeah, that should be next episode that we'll do that.
And it's not fucking controversial.
It's something that he's he wants.
Well, he's happy to release.
So it's all happy-tisms.
All right.
Dave Filoni is crying himself to sleep.
He's the only one who gets the force.
They seeded so many ideas and rebels and JJ straight up just TLDR'd.
TLDW'd.
Oh, too long didn't watch the rebels.
Yeah.
Oh, well.
What kind of tea do you drink, Rags?
I will save that for him.
You think the mouse will eventually reboot the original trilogy?
I hate that prospect so much.
Actually horrifying.
And like they recast all the characters.
That would be so horrifying.
Let's just bring him back a CG.
This really worries me.
Do like the Final Fantasy spirits within shit.
Even Lucas can't do a thing about it if they did it in 20 years.
Yep.
I feel dirty that I had to watch a Fortnite video to listen to Palpatine's speech.
We all did.
Love how even the MSM is against Disney now.
Are they?
Yeah, I don't know.
Are they?
I don't really think so.
Oh, it's that guy again.
I have a day baller.
I don't have names on the backlog ones
because I obviously I just copied over the messages to make sure I got them
because this fucking notepad file is getting smaller, but it's still fucking enormous.
Getting there.
I agree with Shadman on the healing thing.
They should have used it like the sort of truth series Terry Goodkind,
where healing was highly debilitating and took several days to accomplish
and left them exhausted.
Yeah, I'm okay with that.
Make it punishing.
Especially with, you know, don't make it like immediate at all the spot
because fuck me, like, fights become a little less intense at that point.
Is there any hope at all for Hulu's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy?
Probably not.
I didn't know that they were making that.
Yeah.
Whenever there's something new, just assume it's not going to be good
and then you can be pleasantly surprised.
That's what I do.
I'm always proven right.
You.
Did an eight hour shift and you're still live?
Hi Rags.
These are collecting up.
Mm hmm.
Wait to say all of those to Rags.
When Leia died, I yelled when that cocaine hits and then I walked out for a refund.
I like Poe.
He should have left with Zoria and got her pragas.
Top T of viewing right there.
Disney already remade the OT.
It was called TFA.
Oh no, they'll do it even more insidiously than that.
They'll be like, hey, how about we remake it, but just actually remake it this time?
He'd be like, no.
Maybe TROS's ending was a dream.
That's life.
That's life.
I just, I think the credits should have, instead of being like directed by JJ Abrams,
the first thing you see, it should have been we're sorry.
When Chewy heard Leia died and shoved off the new crew,
I almost teared up the only real moment in this movie.
Yeah.
And it's not, it doesn't belong to this film.
It belongs to the OT that moment.
Just the idea of Chewy dealing with all the big dead.
There's not even a seed between Chewy and Luke.
There's like one between Chewy and Leia in the sequel trilogy, I think.
And then Chewy and Han.
Yeah, you've got a little bit there.
Is I am correct going to review?
Oh wait, sorry.
Yeah, Chewy does say hello to Luke at one point in TLJ.
My bad.
Right.
Okay, everything's better now.
Yeah.
Is I am correct going to review your script for your unbridled rage,
just in case you have a mistake in it?
Oh, the high rags.
I think that's referencing.
I had everything was proof.
His script was proof.
Yeah, he said like his script was unfocused about his TLJ video.
And that was one that TRO proofed.
Such a bizarre sequence of events, that whole thing.
Yeah, that was that was pretty nuts.
Poe plus Zory Bliss equals Babu Frick.
Yeah, biologically, that makes complete sense.
Trying to get over the flu.
Thank you, Massives, for the content and keep up the great work.
Thank you.
Oh, it's still going around, eh?
Nobody lost a hand in TLJ.
Zero out of ten trilogy.
Try again.
You think future Star Wars films will be easily treated as reboots
with no plot connections to past films?
Possibly.
Yeah, you have no idea where they're going to go with this,
especially after that weird comment from Kathleen Kennedy
about how they want to move away from trilogies.
Who's like, eh?
Good luck.
What are you going to do now?
And it's like, just stuff.
Just going to throw stuff out.
What's the rationale for literally no one in the original and prequel trilogies
not jumping to light speed inside of a gravity well?
Fuck you, Disney Star Wars.
Yeah, because they didn't like, no, they were stupid and it was really unlikely.
Okay.
It was like one in a million.
And that's what I've heard.
Okay.
They all they want crazy.
The bells made them crazy.
Oh, no, not the bells.
Good morning, long man.
Oh, that's applicable.
Good morning.
And good night, Rags.
Keep that.
Good afternoon, Shad.
Question.
If all of you could choose a lightsaber color, what would it be?
And single or double blade?
I think we answered that question before.
Mine would probably be single.
And I really like purple.
Mine would be mine.
Yeah.
Single green for you.
Single red for me.
Wow, you sith, you evil man.
I think Shad said he'd want red and that it shouldn't be considered evil.
We're taking it back.
Here's a total non sequitur.
Apparently, there's a recording of Trump where he is specifically
saying that he's worried about Bernie Sanders and he'd prefer going up against Biden.
I hear that.
What's that?
I think that makes sense.
Recording.
It's a recording of him saying this effectively.
And he said that it would have been harder in 2016 if Bernie was VP.
Like Hillary Clinton to pick Bernie.
Um, I've yeah.
Who was it?
VP.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Who fucking knows?
I can't remember.
Our political system fucking retarded.
It's all bad.
Let me see if I can find the quote specifically.
Yeah, this is this is what he this is him.
This is what he literally said.
If she pins Bernie as vice president, it would have been tougher.
I think Bernie because all those people that hated her so much who voted for me.
Trump said adding that he got 20% of the Bernie vote.
Because Sanders was a big trade guy.
But had she picked Bernie Sanders, it would have been tougher.
He's the only one.
He was the only one I didn't want her to pick.
Um, so that's interesting.
He stuck a knife in his back.
Him.
I hope he wins.
I hope that Bernie wins.
Because it's just going to be the most interesting thing ever.
I don't think that's even a question.
Is it like Bernie would obviously put up more of a fight than Biden?
Well, it seems like the tables are turning.
I think Bernie is doing better in like the early caucus states like New Hampshire and Iowa.
So, um, and, oh, and you might not know about this.
Pete Buttigieg had a bit of a Jeb Bush, please clap moment.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
He's like, Oh, you know, you're gonna get passionate.
Come on.
You know,
I've seen people play the clip side by side.
Well, I mean, let's, let's look, look up the, uh, let's look up the democratic primary polls.
Sorry.
This one.
Yeah.
Do we have to people like us for not being very political?
Oh, yeah.
Sure.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
It's like, did we talk about light sabers and how bad things are elsewhere?
I was going to run from lightsabers to Trump versus Bernie.
He took away one.
What lightsaber do you suppose they'll get?
That'd be a really cool flight, wouldn't it?
Yeah, that's, I mean, I'd watch it.
The election is, yeah, dude.
The election now is who can win the lightsaber fight.
Perfect.
Two of the fights where you go, wow, I feel like I feel like whoever I said is like,
it will be interpreted as political.
Hillary Clinton.
And then stabs on it.
Stabs is what he said as a big shot.
If you had to delete one European country and its people from existence, would you choose?
What?
Why?
What's the question, sorry?
You can delete one European country and its people from existence.
Which would you choose?
I'm not answering that.
That's so mean.
I don't know.
I don't know how I would figure that out.
I guess I'd go for like the smallest one.
I don't know.
The one with no people.
Yeah, like if you had to.
Yeah, take out that area with no houses, grass.
First super chat.
Thanks for all the streams you massive.
You helped me process all the tism I just watched.
You've generally made a big difference in my life.
Helping me decipher what makes good slash bad rat.
I love you all.
Hi rags.
Hi Jay.
Hi Jay.
Well, thanks for the message.
But why would you say hi to Jay?
Kick Jay?
Jesus.
Thank you.
Imperial slash final slash first order scenes were pretty cool, weren't they?
No, they're embarrassing.
Silly.
When he burst his own ships up from the floor, it's just like, what the fuck?
Eight Kylo, your parents are nobody.
Ray, they were nobody.
I've always thought, why didn't she ask him?
Where are they?
And what's wrong with nobody parents?
Because because TLJ is way too obsessed with a meta.
Like characters don't behave as they would.
They behave react as if they're like watching the Star Wars episodes.
Like, of course, Ray wouldn't give a fuck if her parents were or were not a Skywalker or Kenobi
because she's already powerful.
It doesn't matter if she's from a powerful family.
She'd want to know these people.
That's why it's so dumb.
Yeah.
Spaceships are meant to be in space.
In Disney Star Wars, they spend more time fighting on atmosphere than anywhere else.
They even rise from the ground now.
It's true.
I think we see them more in atmosphere than out in Rise of Skywalker.
Well, they had to do that right because in atmosphere, you can't have a shield.
Except when you've got a speeder, fly up.
No, you can't fly up.
And when you run out of petrol, you know, your ship just like stalls like it's a car.
Even though it stops.
I can't believe that.
This is what I mean.
You put all three of these tisbee movies together and everything's fucked.
Like, nothing makes any sense.
They're like stables never made any sense.
Like, oh, fuck off.
You have no idea what you're talking about.
It's fantasy.
Easy.
Delete sea land.
Problem solved.
Sea land?
Yes.
If we delete all of the sea, we'll be fine, right?
That won't affect Earth in any dramatic way.
Dramastic way.
That's a new word.
Dramastic.
Kyle Ben's last words to Ray.
No refunds.
Yeah, like she dies to save him.
He dies to save her.
She dies to save it.
Just waiting for someone else to turn up that can save both of them.
They rise now.
F-A-C-E face arms speech.
Some cash for rags.
Stroke treatment.
Get some sleep mauler.
Oh, this is from the overflow.
And yet it's applicable to now.
Hey.
Oh, I don't know.
I'm not sure how much longer I can last now, but this overflow we have.
When you step back and look at it in a different perspective, you're like, oh, shit.
The overflow is only once again been shipped away at still.
I fucking get it.
If you could put into like a timeframe with minimal interruptions,
how long would you say that would take?
Four hours.
Damn, dude.
Might need another, you might need another separate stream for that shit.
Oh, well, that's the thing.
We can do that.
And, you know, I think the next stream will be a pretty good one for it as well,
because we're not actually covering a video.
We've got four different paper based stuff.
I'm calling it the Feb taxes stream.
We're going to be going to be great entertain.
And the I hate everything conversation, obviously.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The most.
I haven't.
Oh, sorry.
I was about to muck something.
I mean, go ahead if you want to go ahead.
Not well, I mean, you're all aware of the the bad bunny thing, right?
Where she's bitching about not getting enough money from Twitch.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's just it's just funny how like, she's there complaining that she's not
getting enough in here.
You're like running out of time to get through everything.
I mean, it's just a weird position to have taken because it's like,
hey, bad bunny, you're aware that like, thousands upon thousands of people are
providing this content for free every day, too.
You're not the only one.
And like, what entitles you to it because people are enjoying it.
It's like, I mean, the assumption there is the, you know,
Twitch start out as just be like, hey, play some games and talk to people who like games.
That's wholesome.
And she's like, pay back.
I just love the part where she's like, I haven't got a donation or a sub at an hour.
And then she's got this like, indignant sort of faces.
Like, how do you look back on this and go?
Yeah, this is fine.
This is good.
This is the way to behave.
She apologized for it.
I assume she did.
You look terrible.
Did she?
No, I said, like, assume I don't know if she did.
I just assumed that would have been the right thing to do.
Or to talk about how it's taken out of context.
She probably did that.
Bye.
And then there was a video of there was I don't know who it was,
but there was another Twitch streamer who was there saying that it was
the she was getting targeted by incels.
Okay.
His logic was that, oh, well, she's an attractive woman who didn't act nice.
So that's what makes incels really angry.
It's so stupid.
Okay, more.
Here's a completely new question.
If you had to choose one European country to not be deleted,
besides yours, which one would you choose?
See, but I can just easily answer the biggest one for my save the humans point of view.
Yeah, yeah.
Russia's fucking enormous.
Are you going to be able to get away with that?
Well, the problem I suppose is people would be like, wouldn't you want to preserve what
you think is the best culture, I guess, or like, this is the thing, I would have to go research
which one is the most important to the world, I guess.
And then weigh that up against the human lives that are lost.
Like, that's pretty fucking horrifying questions.
It's not like a joke answer.
Love you guys.
Can't wait for you to finish the breakdowns of TFA and the newest Star Wars abortion mauler.
Your rage on ROS was fantastic.
Well done, bud.
Thank you very much.
The most anticipated efap of them all.
A few days before Christmas, that's proof there's a Santa, objectively.
May the season and dawn bless you all.
I thank you.
May he bless you as well.
The cat's visual effects improvements.
The first time video game patch culture crept into our movie screens.
Not the last time.
I'm calling it now.
Yeah, I gotta wonder how much this trend is going to keep going because they did it with a sonic
movie.
Well, cats is the first vision of a fucking day one patch for movies.
That's fucking insane.
Welcome back here.
Hey.
Hey.
Cats have lost about one hundred and fifty million dollars, didn't it?
Yeah, it's like a massive, massive failure.
I would love to be a fly on the wall in that meeting, you know, without pitching cats and
they're like, let's go for like people who are CGI cats, but they're people.
That's going to go over great.
This isn't creepy.
And when they did that first trailer cut, the editor somehow managed to push, right?
Yeah.
So it had a budget of eighty to one hundred million dollars and it's made sixty two million
dollars, not including marketing.
Yeah, that's and it had a stacked cast as well.
So I mean, that's that seems to be the recurring theme with movies now is it doesn't even really
matter who the cast is a lot of the time.
I think people are starting to wise up to it and just don't care anymore.
Yeah, I think.
Yeah, like it's good.
The performance is good, please.
Yes.
All in for Trump's 40D chess minigames.
Shake my head.
That pinko commie scum has no chance and I will fillet rags if I'm wrong.
All right.
Well.
What was the most wasted concept for me?
It was the Knights, a force sniper sounds OP as fuck.
Also, you think Kylo hands Ray brain bran muffins while she's pooping.
I want to say yes to that.
And as for the most wasted thing.
Like like is the like the question of what new element do they bring that you feel they wasted?
I just be like, I don't know.
The Knights of Ren's pretty up there.
It all feels so empty, though, like the Knights of Ren and nothing.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Maybe just no characterization in general.
Just characterization overall.
Yeah.
You know what, Finn, I feel like he's the most wasted thing in the sequels.
Dude, Finn got fucked.
His arc was going to be perfect until he was actually allowed to die.
But it could have been really good.
He could have had a really good arc and they've blown up many times.
And the thing is, like, they didn't need him anymore in the third movie.
So it would have just been absolutely perfect and just not have him in it at all.
No, but we've got to we've got to fight the bad guys by crashing into each other.
Yeah.
And I'm not saying I didn't like Finn.
He was a good character.
It's just he was a waste in the third one.
So I like Finn.
You don't like Finn.
No, I do.
I like John Boyega.
I don't like Finn that much.
I like the idea of Finn.
I like the idea of Finn, but yeah.
Um, Anakin doesn't like sand.
Ray buries his lightsaber and fucking sand.
Also imagine Palpatine.
Fuck somebody.
Do it.
Eye rags and hail the god emperor of man.
All right.
I guess I'll save that.
And there's a shad question I'll save as well.
Ray won because she crossed the beams.
It only makes sense.
Do you think that they were trans Jedi?
Who knows?
I'm sure that question will be answered in the future.
Most surely.
The future.
Holdo.
E equals 0.5 times MV.
Power of two.
Certain distance acceleration possible.
Rogue one.
One ship bounced.
Others went hyperspace.
TLJ all about keeping precise distance.
One minute.
I'm sorry.
I'm not entirely sure of what that was.
I'm so lost, huh?
Yeah, I should probably.
I think I should stop reading these now because my brain started to be melted.
Well, I just don't think that one made any sense.
I think the message is that it just doesn't make any sense.
Wow, guys.
Could have been my brain melted, but fine.
Uh, maybe old Palps was into shock therapy kink.
And it just just forgot.
He forgot the safe word.
That's what I was.
He couldn't say the safe word.
His lips were melting up.
Yeah.
Not the final order used high fighters to fly up.
Nope.
Nope.
JJ and Favreau are always being executed.
Excused, sorry.
Not executed.
For their Tism episodes in Star Trek and Mandalorian.
Remember Vince Gilligan in Breaking Bad when his was one vision?
Uh, yeah.
I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Well, so I guess they're saying they're good episodes.
People try and excuse them for their bad ones.
But who thought JJ had any good Star Trek movies?
I thought they hated all of them.
From what I understand, a lot of people, yeah, I did every single one.
Oh, I was under the impression that the first time
JJ Abrams did a Star Trek movie, people liked it.
I'm pretty sure Trek fans hated it.
I think it was well reviewed, but that doesn't mean anything.
I think it was always well reviewed.
The public liked it, yeah, for the most part.
Like I found it entertaining.
There's like critics, critics, it's, yeah.
It just kind of reminds me of Halo, where like, I remember I watched an IGN clip
where someone said Halo 4 was not well received, which is an accurate statement.
But because it's IGN, they're all like, oh no, everybody liked it.
We liked it.
We gave it to 9.7.
It's like, guys, like nobody plays this game.
Nobody likes this game.
Just because you and your friends like it doesn't mean anything.
That was a bit of a Halo tangent, sorry.
Yeah.
Yeah, actually, I'm pretty lost-ismed, and I'm up to where I was supposed to be,
which is actually what would have been the cap for the stream,
or at least I've gone over it.
But hey, this time, we don't have to deal with that because we're split into two.
We took a big old chunk out of the overflow.
Like I said, Rags and I will chop that thing down until it's gone.
It was like a collective of four streams or something
that just didn't get accounted for because of other events.
But we're getting there.
So if you stream that one, are you also going to have to go through
the Super Chats of that stream, too?
Yeah, so we did with the when we did Super Chat catch-up two,
it was we did as many overflows as we could while also answering the ones in that stream.
Damn, dude.
They're trying to slow you down.
Yeah, we're going to get there, though.
And by the way, when I finally get through this entire overflow,
it's going to be like fucking did it.
Killed it.
I did.
Defeated it.
Ryan Johnson Gay.
Good one.
And Fuck Mary Kill Chewy JJ Sheev.
What a strange selection of three.
Wait, what was that again?
Chewy JJ Sheev for Fuck Mary Kill.
Mary Chewy.
Yeah.
Fuck Palpatine.
I'm sorry, JJ.
It's the process of a limitation, buddy.
Like, what can we do?
The hands were tied.
So yeah, in terms of updates for just stuff that's coming,
Wolf recorded all of the overflowed Super Chats that were meant for him.
It's like a four hour recording that's already on Mooler.
It's going to be released in like a timely-ish fashion of,
I don't know, a good time to come out, I guess.
So if you had sent a Super Chat him directed at him on his off stream,
he will have heard and he'll be reacting to them, I guess.
Then there's like another four hour one we recorded where
we're looking at like 30 to 40 copyrighted meme videos
and laughing and different things ensue.
You'll be able to see that one soon after.
It's like it's like a part one, part two.
The Doom eFap movies has been appealed and it's allowed to stay up.
It's just they monetized it, which whatever.
Or they said it can't be monetized at all.
Either way, it's up, which means Lord of the Rings will be on its way.
It's just the two towers is being finicky.
So and we want to release them probably weekly.
It'd be a nice little trilogy.
So Doom went down about six or seven times, didn't it?
Six or seven hundred, yeah.
Six hundred, yes.
Um, then there's the two more infinitisms episodes.
This still being edited.
So hoping to get it out on time.
If it can't be, it can't be.
It'll just be delayed.
And then we're recording the two episodes about women
that will be watching.
So we haven't seen the one that came out yet.
Probably Tuesday or Wednesday.
And then I'm finishing video editing my April Fool's video
and Dashbullshit is editing the other one.
I sure am.
That would be once those are done.
Obviously, those those will be waiting for April.
And then after that, I will be re scripting TFA part three.
I'm working on that.
And then I think my plan right now, unless things change,
will be to do a Joker video after that.
What about when's the discussion coming up?
That will be next, which will probably be next week.
And I don't even know if we'll have guests for that
because I don't know if it'll make sense to have guests
when we're trying to do something like that.
That's true.
And that is the update.
Rags is doing a Mandalorian video,
but he wants to do the Ephab stream before doing that.
So we're going to sort that out after the the I ate everything one.
And so that there'll be a Mandalorian stream.
We're going to do the Sargon one.
I think they're in potential talks with Elvis the Alien
to have him guest for a full episode.
Same from a skeptic.
A bunch of other people will have to see what happens.
Cool.
I don't think there's anything else.
Like all of the updates I can think of.
I think Rags has said he's making a response to somebody else as well.
So that's possibly on the way.
And yeah, thank you all very much for for watching.
And I hope you enjoyed Ralph's video was really bad.
And that'll be going up much sooner than this half
because obviously it's it's already processed.
I imagine by now so I can get it up and down down and up straight away.
Yep.
And yeah, that's that's about it.
I'll read the last one.
Fuck with F word.
Marry kill.
JJ Ryan and Kathleen.
Yeah, I just find it funny that the last one said fuck.
This one said F word.
So kill Kathleen.
She's out.
Kill them all.
Yeah, I was gonna say this is unfair.
Yeah, it's too rough.
I feel like this needs some time.
You'd have to think about this one.
Yeah, like the justifications would be so complicated, wouldn't they?
Because you'd be like, you'd have to just it would be a lesser of two evils for like every single choice.
I had to do this because of this.
I had to do this because of this.
I don't know.
Kill, kill, kill as as Bwonsky recommended.
Yes.
Marry JJ.
Kill Ryan and fuck Kathleen.
Well, that might just be what you have to do.
Yeah, it could be.
Yeah, you held a gun to my head.
I had to choose.
All right.
So thanks for watching everybody.
I think that's it.
We'll come back next time.
And like I said, we'll take another chunk out of the overflow.
If you're still waiting for things you've said to be read out.
Hopefully it said there and it will be gotten to.
Other than that, anything else anybody wants to say before before close out?
No, I'm good.
No.
I'm always happy to be here.
Everybody's all you toxic broodmen are the best.
Oh, yeah, thanks for popping in.
All three of you to keep me company while I read Super Chats infinitely into the void.
Absolutely.
Yep.
And obviously, thanks to Jay and Literature Devil and Ragazoos for a fun, fun stream.
We shall see you next week, folks.
Later.
See you.
