I
Want to pet that dog? I'm gonna leave it on screen. We're gonna start with
Jack bein Jack I guess
notification
Yep notification, so that's that's the tweet
Welcome to part two people who may be hearing this right now or not cuz streams take a second to
Good I could see comments. Hello
Hello everyone. So, uh, Jack said people that genuinely believe thinking you misrepresented their opinions about films
He's on the same level as calling someone less than human should generally be avoided all costs. So people that genuinely believe
Thinking you misrepresented their opinions about films. Is that what wolf and rags?
Position was do you guys remember? Did he quote tweet me on that? I
Don't thing. Oh, yeah, it's above it. You've been quote tweeted. I think yes, I'm famous
So
Weird take we said it was mischaracterization
Which affects our integrity as content creators and can actually deal damage to what is essentially our careers
Very simple. It's not you said my opinion on a movie was lame a little bit more complicated than that
And we've pretty much shown it in the in part one. So
nice try Jack
And I like how we had to sandwich it at the end with like you were responsible for as but like that's such oh, yeah
She's probably so shocked. This is the crowd that led to the mass harassment of the Star Wars crew members
It's like just got to double down on the idea that you're this objectively terrible piece of shit. Yeah, I'm the worst
criticisms and then that's a criticism you can levy to pretty much everyone who's been critical of Star Wars in public, you know
Hmm then we got yes
You see sometimes it is frustrating when someone is disingenuous about the points you make for instance most of the points made towards me
In this stream as an adult. I'm able to be frustrated without mindlessly yelling slurs at them
Wait, he's he's he's very much in the position that slurs are just worse or insults are worse
I
I'd have to know which ones were slurs that they've made. I'm pretty I don't think anyone's called Jack asleep
They've said he's so I heard was uh, yeah, all I heard was wolf calling him a pussy, which he is
Yeah, I mean unfair I
Mean it's a whole this is the part that I find really interesting is um. Oh, he said the room is not objectively bad, by the way
whatever Jack
the take that like
How do we define just how really bad an insult is versus a mischaracterization or something like that?
That's pretty much a conversation of ethics at that point
Instead of it because right now all we're dealing with is
You did a thing that was bad and then we go your thing was worse and they go no your thing was worse
It's like okay. This is gonna end. Well, that's a pretty good summary actually. Yeah
That's just about the insult stuff. Obviously with the content criticism
He's basically just said this is what your content is and I'm gonna disagree with it
I'm like, but that's not my content and he goes that doesn't matter
But I suppose you'd accuse the same of me
It's just that people can watch the streams and come to their conclusion
I suppose like what else can I do other than provide context and arguments?
That's it. And by the way, Jack if you're still watching
Because if you are being an asshole and then saying then saying
Yeah, but they're being an asshole as well doesn't mean that you're less of an asshole
You will look so good if we are here sort of nitpicking you and teasing you and you just very calmly just explain
No, that's wrong. Here's what I really think but instead you're just doubling down and looking like more and more of a cunt every
Star Wars crew abuse. It's like, yeah
Essentially like you've been caught
Imagine you've been caught literally murdering someone and then the police are like and you go that go over there kill two people
Magically you're not gonna get arrested anymore
Well again
The Congress welfare is fair freak murder two people
Did you just call me a freak? Well, you know now that he'd be like, yeah, well murdering three people is worse than two people
So I'm right
But yeah, is everyone ready to continue with this masterpiece
Yeah, we all suck but they suck more
If he can do that if he wants I'm fine if that's the position he wants to take yeah
So for context of anyone watching this in the future, this is a second part
You probably would have seen if I have 22 at this point, which is the longest you fab in existence in a singular video
And we have to cut off in case we hit the cap and now we're back for as long as this will take
so we're assuming it should take about an hour to finish the video and we're gonna do super chats and we're gonna look at some
comments from his channel because
There's some fun comments and then you're all gonna have a laugh with with that and then that should be it
So that is the on what's on the docket. We are 4048 into the video is everybody comfy
Yes, let's do it as comfy as I can be
Jay didn't say anything. I'll assume he's uncomfortable
He was drowned out he was marginalized
AJ pinks this bad this good this bad hell if you do it enough, it's just like a real analysis
It's like YouTube media critics self-help guidance
Many have shared that they want a safe version of my video for their children to understand and learn from which I am more
Than happy to provide in this instance me wolf and rags and a talent
a gift whatever to be able to discern media down to its
Composing parts where someone sees a scene we might see
Script instead be like our look at the components moving and along the way those two clips even I will tell you what he's
Heard in those clips versus what they are. Okay, so what he's heard is me say
I'm amazing at everything that I do and I'm so skilled and so talented as a you wolf as long as you agree with
Everything I say and so we are the best ever also. I make my videos for kids
Like that's what he's here hearing
I think and he considers that a contradiction
From me to be like I'm I'm such a skilled and talented person and then I make critical analysis of media for kids
You know he's taking your your facetious statements out of context again
Well, I don't know if I would so the context of one of them is this is a series intended for adults essentially
But if you want children to be able to watch it as a lot of people requested I was like, okay
I want to swear that should be enough and I obviously that I
Mainly only be showing anything from the Star Wars movies themselves. So as long as the kids can see those they can see my analysis
I'm trying to think of if I've ever put any kind of violent
I don't think I've ever used nudity in the exiles critique. So it should be okay. But yeah, well, you can't have nudity on YouTube
so and the other
Discussion is me and wolf talking about why it is that our work would be valued
And I was like like I would say that we have a skill and this this applies to all the people in this this cool
I was
happily admit myself
that we have
There's there's something in media that we're able to do that a lot of people find harder or don't have any interest in and thus
They prefer we do it for them and create bite-sized entertainment that they can essentially do it
Really quickly in the form of a video with research or whatever and you can call it a skill or a talent
Whatever you want
But it's a thing that is valued by other humans because they lack it or they don't have interest in it
Despite interest in what it can create that makes sense
So he's put those two status together and he's not explained the contradiction. He's just let us assume the
Something from it and which is precisely what he accused of being bad in my videos. So yeah
And he's trying to define what criticism is and then what real criticism is which yes
And what in-depth criticism is I'm what deep criticism is what nitty-gritty criticism is
I don't remember all these words vision of my video for their children to understand he described
For us only six is being benefited by a tactile experience and then rags was like what a tactile mean
Then he said the feel of the game that rags like what does that mean?
You know the game feel floaty all those other meaningless words
Don't make sense if you think of
Feel the game this is the experience you get when you just
Fondle the game. Just pick it up feel the tits in the hentai game. It's real
Pick up the case and lick the case
When my character gets shot in the face I feel it
It's 30 player one as a great wolf and rags and many many other people have what you could call a talent a gift
whatever to be able to discern media down to its
Composing parts where someone sees a scene we might see
Script instead be like oh look at the components moving and along the way you've forgotten that perspectives are
Perspectives even if they're based on the same objective thing
It's the kind of mindset that leads you to ignoring that some people might just think visuals are an important part of a Star
Wars movie implying that I think visuals are not important
Did you forget that perspectives were perspectives?
This is the most bad faith arguments on the planet
I know it's like well the commenter at one point in part one that was like oh come on Jack come on
Give us give us a bit more slack. So why don't you let people have their opinions Jesus Christ?
You fucking elitist longman longman bad
I just think visuals are an important part of a Star Wars movie
And that's no less credible than you not liking it when Luke drinks the milk
Why the kind of mindset that leads you to blindly say that's objectively a five or six
Without really thinking about what that even means
What makes you think that I don't think all of that means
You drink hard enough I guess
So so when I say something if if you catch me saying it's a subjective five out of six of viable six out of ten
Does that mean I don't know what that means to me?
I'm confused by his point here. He's like I should be considering what that means
Movie's objective scores out of ten like do you ever say I mean I suppose you reach
Judgments about their quality, but you never really go this not technically no it's good in this but I could guesstimate
Sort of thing like I did with Infinity War where I was like the character super strong
But the will building the story suffer in different ways
And so like like I said an objective robot might I said might reach a five or six vaguely that's somewhere
I probably put it
And you'd be like, I don't know
He's like what are you basing that on it's like literally a guess of where it would probably sit if you had to do an
Objective assessment which I haven't done
I wouldn't mind doing but just I've got other things that I want to I want to look into and
It's a complicated thing to get so it's much easier to sort of reach the conclusion of are the major
Payoffs in the movie the entire purpose of the progression of the story they all fucked and based on
Contradictions in the world the story on the characters like if yes movie's bad well the story is bad anyway
In terms of the craft. It's just fucked
And then if the opposite is true more than likely gonna be good
But then you get it's tough when you get to stuff like the characters are great with the story is awful you big
then you have to start thinking about how the payoffs mesh with the
Regression
The point we've got oh, this is great. This is all
playing objective criteria
You're you're cutting out
Good
At the point where
Where's like something is really good and something else?
To reach any kind of objective conclusion about the quality of a movie in terms of like a rating out of ten or whatever
You would have to apply subjective criteria even if the measurements you've made are still objective
Is it's just that that's that's a that's a great conversation that one right we don't even get to that point with this because they
They've not even
Like address what up the arguments. I'm actually making
The thing out of ten is is is confusing a lot of the time because it's just like you can only get it
Like you couldn't go further. It's like something point something something something something something out of ten to get an exact thing
It's like yeah, I don't think that's really possible for me
But um, you can absolutely safely tell if a story is entirely built on on contradicting information then it's failed to
Completed its purpose as a story by definition
Wait, did I miss the third Eric segment? No, it's coming. Oh
That's no less credible than you not liking it when Luke drinks the milk
The kind of mindset that leads you to blindly say that's subjectively a five or six
Without really thinking about what that even means didn't I explain?
All of that and like what makes me love Infinity War. Well, that's what the point of the end of the summary is
All of the characters I sum up in terms of their arcs like that would be what I'm thinking about when I talk about why I
subjectively adore the movie
Yeah, but he seems to cite, you know special effects is like
You know got you there you don't like special effects and you don't think they matter it's like
Well, no and say that I just said it doesn't matter in the grand scheme of things when you know time starts to pass
I'm not here as someone who's never really gonna be remembered literally just for its special effect
Especially in this day and age when basically everything has amazing special effect
Basically a fibrous the effects in Last Jedi don't make it stand out. They just make it I guess for today's audience
They just make it palatable
Well, there's another whole interesting and complicated discussion. How much do visuals tie in to what you would address as quality
How do we judge visuals? It's complicated, but it's not something where you just immediately go. You know what? It's all subjectively me alone
No, we should give it a shot. We should think about how it affects other movies
Why people do certain things when they when creating these things in craft what lighting is for?
Composition is for how you edit and
Frame in movies. There's loads of little aspects that are all really important and have purpose. It's just like ignoring all of these things from the
craft you just talk to the people who do these things and if you tell them
Like hey, I pick up a camera and just point it randomly and spin it around. It's like I'm a director just like you
They'd be like
Yeah
My camera
Six without really thinking about what that even means
I'm not here as someone who's never done any of the things I think maulers doing in fact my two most popular videos on sky
High analysis wonderland are both super rambly with way too much summary fluff and little distinction between a personal nitpick and a legitimate argument
He doesn't personally distinct the words he uses what he's just like you be better. Oh
Identify with him. Is he implying that he wasn't objective enough?
That's actually wasn't
He wasn't something enough. I'm not 100% sure super rambly with weight super rambly
I don't know if that's provable because he doesn't believe the whole objective thing
So this is the thing where your standards coming from you telling me that by your definition of what rambly is
I am that and you are not that but sometimes you are that and it's based on how you feel of what rambly is
It's just like oh god, so painful
That's the thing if that was his entire criticism you wouldn't necessarily have to disagree with age I mean that is your opinion
Well, yeah in his world view I can shake all this. He says that at the end. He says all this is just my opinion
Obviously think he said that as bait cuz surely if he's watched all your content he knows yeah, he's seen the TFA stuff so he knows
I
Too much summary fluff and little distinction between a personal nitpick and a legitimate argument
But these are issues
I want to recognize and grow from and seeing your most recent review fall into the exact same holes
Well, I hadn't seen this video before then Jack, so how could I have learned from it yet?
Problems you see he's above you he's looking at you. Oh look at look at mauler make all those mistakes. I used to make oh
He's learning while I'm not
it's really funny because
when you know I've just kind of been like passively tweeting while this has been going on and
He was like talking to somebody and then he said well
We're in talks on you know doing a one-on-one conversation right now
And and and I just said cuz I had been a little bit hostile before I just said I'd be perfectly happy with that like
Totally sincerely, and he just replied dot dot dot
Who are you and then I just replied I'm the guy who's on efap right now. You'll hear me later
It's like how fucking smug and rude can you be someone who's genuinely being nice to you?
I don't think they can tell the difference between sincerity and attacks think so
It's hilarious. They'll just be like you said cuz it's already it's all it's all in part one
It's all the shit that uh that we've been through mental gymnastics
still find that interesting
All right
No, I still find that interesting that he says like oh the I didn't have enough legitimate arguments like wait
What are you can you define what you mean by legitimate arguments? Are you meaning like well unfortunately?
He's only done this to set up his point that I don't learn while he does that's the only reason he's put this in here
He's evolved as a critic. Oh, yeah
Sorry really quickly
Someone in chat a show got the idea. It said sincerity is implied
Yeah, I really like that meme. Okay. Go on most recent review fall into the exact same holes
I felt a need to point out these methodological problems to you and the fans
Many of whom still confuse your oh, sorry
he
So his argument is I he's saying that I have now presented them to you when I was about to
Intrinsically be like okay, so present them because you haven't yet and then like oh fuck he thinks he already has. Sorry
Yeah, this is implies. He actually knows your methodological techniques, which
Doesn't believe in you fall into the exact same holes
I felt a need to point this video bad because a lot of it is just summary of your content
So yeah, he's not making a lot of points. He's just sort of doing a play-by-play of my content
Yeah, clearly. He's not really saying anything of value and also I think he's probably a racist and he's probably instigated a lot of attacks
Across Europe. I don't know. I'm just saying what I have to prove
Well, I think he's probably responsible for literally every person that's harassed you. Yep, that's probably just intrinsically true
Didn't God say that in the Bible at some point?
You sure that was a thing
The logical problems to you and the fans many of whom still confuse your cinema sins format for a deeper critique. Oh
Okay
You haven't proved that shit Jack
We can just do it right back at you people confuse your snipes and your lack of context and your straw men for arguments
Yeah, how are we supposed to know that that's what his content?
If you suggested that we skip four hours of the critique anyway
Fucking big brain time boys. Yeah, what else can you say, right?
By the way, I've actually used the cinema sins format a little bit actually
Can you can do good stuff with it? I hope otherwise I've wasted a lot of fucking time
I've gone on record saying that cinema sins have made good points in their time
Yeah, sure
That's being generous something deeper here something not truly explored and
It ties together all these things talked about so far
But hey, what maybe it will become clear very very soon
Yeah, let's let's just go ahead and go at it again
I'm not sure what are you saying there tout these methodological problems to you and the fans
Many of whom still confuse your cinema sins format for a deeper critique
There is something deeper here something not truly explored and it ties together all these things talked about so far
But hey, maybe it will all become is he saying that every point he's made in this video is now present as a flaw in
My new video that is the point
Apparently your technique of doing long-form is not deeper
But there is a deeper way of doing things and he doesn't know it and we don't know it either and what?
Shut up, that's your opinion. What is his what is his point? Like I don't there's a mysterious deeper meaning behind things
I don't know what it is. It's like, okay
Real deep good semantic dragon said he's talking about how long it takes some almost release videos. I
Don't think so. I don't really get that impression. I'm getting
Maybe yeah very very soon
So
Oh my god
Also
Just for a second if we can ignore the trauma we all just visually experienced
Jack, I appreciate your use of the coin sound effect from ape escape too. I got that reference. I love that game
We may be friends yet. I am
placing in a shield
On we'll see just put your fucking shirt back on no, his hair exactly
Looks the chat will not be victimized. Okay, we will
But uh, let's let's have a look is frequently accused of believing his opinions
Peekishly smooth chest isn't actually quite that's that's not an insult. It's just I don't understand how oh what sorry
That is a scarily smooth chest. Oh well
Eric jay is interested just saying things
Call me but hey, maybe it'll all become clear very very soon
So
Mahler is frequently accused of believing his opinions are objective and
This isn't actually quite true
He actually released a video recently that puts a lot of it to rest
So that statement alone when I first heard that I was like eric. Thank you
Thank you
But it's uh, it's just an out. It is he's he's fucking with us. Unfortunately
So
the problem is that his his his real opinions are equally bullshit and the word opinion is thrown around far more than
references to the topic being discussed the purpose behind it in this case is to champion the idea that there is no such thing as
Good or bad content that everyone is simply sharing their perspective
You know the mentality that everyone gets a medal no matter what participation is now enough to celebrate quality
Everybody who was in the race now gets a first place medal see
Oh my goodness, he changed positions
That'll do it. So apparently your your observations are sorry your
Whatever comments are objective or bullshit. There's no in between. Yeah, and uh, so the point I was addressing in that video was that um
a lot of people will
Fail to have strong references and then when criticized they say hey, man, it's my opinion. Everyone's got one
It's like I know that's your opinion. So
That doesn't really to change anything from what I said, but okay
Um, and so it's used as a shield that is my point in that section among other things
But he's he's sort of referenced it here to explain what I mean between the difference between objective and subjective. I don't know
It's not really the right clip. I would say that's all
Mahler simply creates a distinction between two types of statements that you can make about a piece of art
There's a subjective and objective a subjective statement would be that you thought it looked really cool
It had nice themes. It made you feel feelings, etc
While an objective statement is provable. It is based off the stuff that you're looking at, uh indisputable facts
It had dozens of plot holes
The character writing was inconsistent all that jazz the problem here is that supporting your assessments of quality with examples from the work itself
Doesn't actually make it objective. It just makes it well founded
What so the question becomes
What is the difference between an objective argument and a well-founded argument?
I find that this becomes incredibly easy to debunk when he
When he what sorry what he brings up as example to try and prove this you can like immediately just say no
But I mean there is definitely a distinction there like
Yeah, i'm curious of how they because it almost implies almost implies that it's possible
Did it have an objective argument?
So i'm curious what he would define an objective argument as if it's possible if he thinks it's not possible. I don't know
Well, the thing is why why do we even need an objective argument? Like once you have object objective proof or evidence
It's like listen, it's right there. You you just see it. It's you don't have to argue it. It's right
It's almost like your argument is created from objective evidence
This is very semantic levels of like how exactly you this is the kind of thing
You need to be in a one-to-one conversation with to be able to figure it out
Uh, we don't necessarily understand exactly what he's trying to say itself doesn't actually make it objective
It just makes it well founded. Let's say that you point out that this knife
disappears mid swipe where did it go and
You're right, you're you're you're absolutely right that knife is it's gone. It was there and now it's gone. Well done
You're very observing
I don't understand
I don't understand what the fucking there'd better be a point to the maybe that's the deeper theme he was going for
Just things are vanishing and it's not always maybe it's a that better be the point in which point
Bravo, I guess but please the joke's over now. I just desperately hope we don't find out if he's wearing clothes from the ways
Oh
No, stay tuned using the word correctly
Um, it's gonna be a statement would be that the knife is missing
What you haven't actually said whether the film is good or bad or well made or poorly made
Until you can say why this knife trick made the film worse
so
so the first
Problem here is that uh, i'm not sure that i've ever explained why the knife disappearing is uh
made the movie worse
but um
I never would have expected that i'd have to explain to somebody that a weapon disappearing into thin air
Makes the movie worse. Should we do it anyway?
No
Maybe some people need it
I just really like the the condescending good for you mauler. You fucking notice that you want a cookie
It's like are you just okay with things vanishing? Is that not something I should take note of?
Is that a good is that an addition to yeah, yeah
This is you know, the first time we responded to this was it was called delving into the mind of eric taxon
It's like yeah, it does feel like
You're entering a world where it's just like what is what?
so
um, how how
I leave this open to the floor. Does anyone want to give a shot at and I know it sounds so condescending
And i'm sorry about this. How is a movie or story made worse when?
Enemy weapons disappear into thin air at random
I'll give it a shot. Um
It is you would be incredibly hard pressed to argue that it was done intentionally and you legitimately believe the last jedi was supposed to be bad
Like it was a parody
now the fact that it's unintentional doesn't inherently bad
but
It is it is it is what you would consider a mistake
and seeing something that you can immediately identify as a mistake is that and the movie is gonna
potentially pull you out of it and I doubt there's going to be anyone who
Has a positive reaction to that and that like increases their enjoyment of the film unless they're literally watching it because they think it's bad
And every bad thing they happen every bad thing that happens. They think you know, they think it's funny or whatever
That is my take
um, I was just going to say that
I think there's more to be said to it to identify why it's is specifically bad for a story versus um
How it couldn't be interpreted as a positive experience beyond parody. I still think there's a fair argument
Yeah, if you take it out of the movie context, let's say the writer just forgets that you know, some
Other guy was wielding a second knife and you're like, wait a second
He just described it previously in a scene where
His one hand had one knife and his one hand of the other knife and they were fighting
And then all of a sudden he only describing one arm with one knife. He's like what happened to that second knife?
It maybe didn't literally disappear from the universe, but it's no longer described. So you're thinking, okay
Why would the fighter even bother showing me this in the first place?
So it's it's as if the the writer is forgetful in this case. Obviously, it's a technical control of
CGI and everything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the effect is the same where it's just removed for the sake
Of keeping the storyline going like a deus ex machina device only it's a literal
CGI machine coming in and taking it away. It's the same literary effect. It takes away the agency of the main character
the actual threat they're they're in
Um the writing consistency, of course because all of a sudden things aren't
There anymore for it for whatever reason
It it's just bad. I would it's bad on several levels. I would choose the argument of
Like progression and stakes this is one of the most fundamentally understandable things, right?
Like the reason we get a to b to c to d to d to the end of the alphabet where the explosive payoff happens
Is uh the easy
Translation would be that we get shown what luke is capable of throughout the ot and then he faces darth vader when we know what
He's capable of too
So now the stakes are set in terms of what can be lost for both of them
What can be gained and what their strengths and weaknesses are?
So we're all on board with that. We've been given that information
We can watch this unfold now knowing all those rules and then you know, luke's lightsaber disappears and we're like, whoa
When was that? Yeah, and the next shot like his weapon's just gone. And then luke goes no what and then vader's like what?
And the emperor goes here's another one. I don't know what the fuck's going on there. We're like, okay
And then it has it back. We're like fine. We're back to normal and then vader disappears and he's like, oh fuck
And then luke kills him. We're like, whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa
There's so much happening that's just um, and so you might be like that's just feelings you're describing i'm just like so what i'm talking about is
understanding
what uh
The the rules and limits are on both sides in order to generate stakes. That's what stakes are
You can't have stakes if there are no rules
Because you just be like couldn't luke just fly away at any moment and you're like, no, he can't fly and go
Okay
And luke just just use the force on vader's like well
It's established that you can't just arbitrarily use the force on a force user because they'll just counter it and you're like, hmm
Okay, so I guess this really is down to this sword skill and potential force use and you're like pretty much
Yeah, uh unless weapons disappear and you're like, wait what?
Weapons can just disappear and it's like that changes the fight completely
How can I be invested in what's going to happen if someone's weapon can randomly disappear?
Am I just waiting for that to happen or not happen? And that's when you realize very quickly
Oh the the plot armor kept her alive to the point where she can make weapons disappear
Wow
That's amazing
I'm gonna bring up that
I don't know if anyone either in uh on the stream or in the chat can confirm this
But i'm pretty sure there is a scene in return of the jedi where
Darth vader for literally no reason is holding luke's lightsaber in between cuts
uh
Because of a deleted scene where like luke dropped his lightsaber or something and vader picked it up
That is my understanding of it. I don't know if anyone can confirm that for me in the chat
I haven't seen the movie in a long time. I know I am of the
opinion
That return of the jedi is a much better film than the last jedi both on you know
A subjective personal level and an objective quality, you know standards of writing level
Uh, but is that still a flaw?
Fucking yeah, I wouldn't say it's as big of a flaw because it's I think harder to notice
Oh, I wouldn't I wouldn't argue it in that way
You could be like isn't the rule set by him holding it that it can arbitrarily teleport and I would be like, um
Arguably yes, but it never it didn't take place
uh in a moment that
Undid the stake because basically if you're keeping track of what's happening with ray, she's about to be killed then she's not
You know, it doesn't impact the plot at all. It immediately saved her life in that very moment while vader holding
Luke's lightsaber then not having it a second later. It's just like
Yeah, did that did that mistake just affect what had happened to the movie overall like, you know to a character interaction or a scene
Or anything like that. No, it didn't
It's there but it's not a huge damage
It didn't affect the the outcome of the story, but it would be very difficult to argue that
Thing it's other than a flaw even if it's just an incredibly tiny flaw that yeah, almost
Anyone watching it will notice it's still like technically like if the guy with the two knives again
you'd undo it if the guy with the two knives did his flippy flippies and um
Made his stance when ray was like three meters away from him
Then his knife disappeared and then it showed ray charged him and then his knife reappeared when she came at him
I would be like that was a weird editing error
Doesn't necessarily affect the stakes because nothing would have changed in the time that is is
His sword knife thing disappeared and reappeared
It's the fact that it disappears the second it connects with her as if she has a literal plot armor around her
But if weapons hit it they disintegrate into thin air. It's like wow
um, so yeah, uh, but these are really interesting conversations that get to the the the the nitty gritty as I would probably refer to it as
of um
Progression in stories and why we don't allow this to happen the lack of continuity
So these are all standards of like storytelling
So you'd be like the movie is where it's because I change that to the storytelling becomes inconsistent as a result of it
Which are negative qualities for a story to have when the whole point is to have
Consistent progression to generate stakes to get you to the point where all that stuff you just heard
Is all in favor of this finale where you go? Ah, that's how the story ends
What story is?
I'd like to point out how long it took to describe just a knife disappearing
And I would like to point out that that is why these are very long and it's not just because it's just a bunch of plot
Synopses because that's not what we've been doing
for the past 10 minutes
You get it now. I mean this thing there's people out there who like these kinds of conversations because it feels like they
approach the relevant things in the conversation versus
The knife is missing that doesn't mean the movie's made waves for it moving on next point. It's like whoa. Whoa. Whoa
Define all those terms and explain your point and it's like no, that'll that'll be my video long
Oh, what's your mail steal raise? What's JJ introduce weapon disintegration as a force power episode nine?
I mean, why not right? It's tolls is dead at this point. Anyway, nothing makes any fucking sense that he was so go for it
Which is subjective this conflation leads to mauler routinely implying that if you disagree with his qualitative analysis
with his qualitative assessment of a film then
You are denying the facts that he used to come to his conclusions
Well, you'd have to be by definition, which is something you can do
You just have to have actual counters instead of just I don't feel that they're accurate
And I would say it would depend if you account if you were denying the facts or not
If i'm like fact one two three four and five
Force the conclusion of a if you disagree with the conclusion of a
Then that means you're denying fact one two three four or five now. That doesn't mean that those things are a
Impossible to deny there are things that have been considered facts that are not facts and then go back to being facts in life itself
Such as pluto being a particular thing and then not of it. It can happen
Um, I thought with all the information we had available that c3po's arm was changed between movies
But then I was given more information. I was like that was incorrect
Interestingly, it was still an objective assessment because I have no emotional investment in whether or not his
Arm is red. It was just the information I had at the time, which was
incomplete information that's always been what my argument about this is as
The approach doesn't mean I make an objective statement. That means it's definitively true
Um, it can be it also could not be it depends on the references and how incomplete the information is
Also, a really quick comment, um, ba charles in the chat said and this made me giggle. He said investigate knife 11
knife 11
Oh, that was pretty good
Which could not be further from the truth
In fact, like uh two people can like completely agree on what's in a film and what's shown and disagree on its quality
My argument would just be that I agree with that and i'd call it the subjective
Aspect where how much it bothers you is what we talk about
Well, we're talking about the term quality
That's extremely extremely nebulous term compared to various other terms the
Qualification of the word quality in this scenario would be the degree to which a standard was achieved
And that could be the standard of the craft in question or by how much you were satisfied
They would be the objective versus subjective
Um, I wanted to ask so eric taxin
Uh, are they how do they identify male female?
I don't know sex. Do we know? Okay. I just i'm gonna go with they because I don't want them to
Prop me up and use me as an excuse that were a bunch of alt right uh bigots
But uh is have we figured out why eric took off their shirt?
No, because that's just like random
I've seen the videos eric tax on now. He's eric tax off
I'm, sorry about that
Haha, but i'm genuinely sorry
But I said eric's facts wrong
It could be an argument technique to distract us for uh,
Not listening to what the hell he's talking about. He's like, oh I'm hypnotized
You're gonna need all the tricks you can get man
Just what makes you feel worse is that I thought if that joke three hours ago and i've been waiting since then to make it
It's primed in the cannon
Short, uh your standards for objective assessment are not separate from your subjective opinions there. Um, I wish I could agree with you eric but like
When I really when I say i'm not bothered by a thing to my friends when they've raised an objective issue
They'll be like but you accept it exists right and i'll be like yeah, but I don't know it just doesn't bother me really
Yeah
And you know what it is. It's it's just it's like so there's a bit of cognitive dissonance, right? And it's like yeah
It kind of is kind of is sometimes you're like, why do I like that when i've just identified as bad?
It's like well, you can explore
Why you may feel something more than the average person?
Exactly. Some some plot holes are bigger than others and some of them don't have much weight
So you can see that and that's when you start arguing things like well
The the positives that way the negatives and that's true. Some movies are like that. They are not perfect
But they don't detract from the overall experience
But you don't just suddenly
Put these these holes into a little box and say they don't matter anymore
Of course they matter it depends on how many there are how big they are
You can't deny that they didn't happen if they did, you know
Yeah
Just more opinions. So no mauler doesn't think his opinions are objective
he just
If eric identifies as female does that mean
That we have to censor the nipples i've censored it. Anyway, so we're all good
Yeah, that's fair enough. Also someone in chat made a really good point. This music is very eerie with this footage
It kind of oh my god. I'm so glad i'm not the only one who thought it's it's it's like some silence of the lamb's
Shit right now
Please don't give me ideas mauler tomorrow you're gonna wake up in a room. You're gonna hear that. No
doing that
But you are gonna agree on what's in a film and what's shown and disagree on its quality in short
Uh, your standards for objective assessment are not separate from your subjective opinions. They're just more opinions
So no mauler doesn't think his opinions are objective
he just
Thinks his opinions are objective. Bye mauler. Hope you have a good day. What the fuck this
I mean that was nice of him to say at the end though, right?
Yeah, you know, why is movie bob on here?
It's it would have been a clip in my video and he's just playing my video randomly in the background. I think
Oh
I think that's no there's there's watermarks all over that mother
Because movie pobs like hideously ugly
What the fuck this new force awakens video as it goes has by the way eric if you are watching this
I want to make it clear that I actually think I actually quite like you. I think you're nice
I think he's nice. I disagree with you
But I think you're a nice guy and I didn't mean any offense to you if I have like made a joke about you
I hope that I I just want you to feel that I do not have anything against you and I want to make that clear
They host them
Now, please don't like jack. That's really the only person I don't like here
But not like a deep hatred just like a god, you're so annoying and you think you're so right. But yeah, eric
Eric seems pretty civil and I mean, I mean they're they're wrong about nearly everything that they're saying and their
Arguments are completely simplistic and just sort of like they don't really come up with any sort of real counter
Argument like any real solution to it. They just look at you and go, you know long land bad
But essentially saying that objectivity does not exist
You're like, oh, I feel like just every fucking video we're spawning tomorrow at this point is just ad nauseam the same shit over and over
It's like oh, yeah, you think you're right and you think you're objective. You're not it's like
Good talk, dude
Great fucking conversation. We really opened a lot of eyes here. Hi, I hear you
Jack, I just want to say if you're watching this and you took offense anything I said grow up
Oh
That's fair. Yeah, jay get pretty annoying. What's what's that about jay? Why'd you why'd you
People but
Jack you've kind of annoyed me. I'm sorry. I only have so much at will
Yeah, like honestly jack
If you just took the arguments that mauler made and said I don't agree with this
I don't think this is correct. You would have been much better off
Instead of just fucking oh, yeah
That's not like women like that into your argument substantially and it made you just look like a cunt
And I would advise next time if you don't do that
I think people will be a lot more fair on you, but also you're not funny
I should just pepper that in like it's not it doesn't the zooms don't make you funnier
objective, okay
I don't I don't think he's funny. He's just condescending and uh uptight and humorless and smug
I would just go with the standards. Um, i'd probably find his jokes and delivery a bit funnier if they were more accurate. Um
A lot of comedy
fall back on zoom every time to carry the weight of the joke because the zoom it's like
I I do that in my videos when i'm too lazy to edit something funny on screen
I just zoom in a little bit and then most people go
It's something that a lot of creators do I would uh, yeah, no it's it's a lazy solution
Not saying it's the worst
It's a lazy solution to keep the um people from like getting you know tunnel vision
Also, you know making the footage spin or making it like rotate in hue really quickly. I like both of those as well
Yeah, there's no actual jokes in my videos. There's just things there to make you think there are jokes. I've literally never made a joke
I was looking at my my mentions on
Discord there's one left and I just found it it says thanks for the stream and the unbelievable stamina to endure the bollocks
It's true the bollocks are subjective you're like a horse implied
All right, let's draw it back a little bit
We can do it
It seems we have spoken about here and more despite the fact that the man has now spoken for an accumulated 30 plus hours
Long man bad this likes the new song you hate things
Yeah, and this is weird as well. Like we've addressed this before but nobody seems to give a shit when they make this argument
Um when i'm talking about star wars
If you just frame it that way, it's like wow, you're obsessed with star wars
I'll be like, oh, so when we're talking about like the
Ideas of a consistent narrative and how it can affect stakes you can label that as talking about star wars
And it's like i'm kind of talking about writing really and they're like, no you're talking about star wars though
Like, okay
also, uh
Bouncyballstudio said jack is on his twitter right now trying to quote unquote parody mauler. He's basically pulling off a quinton
I mean, i really want to see it didn't go well for quinton. So
Good luck my friend
We'll see how that turns out
I mean the first hour is just mauler talking about twitter arguments. He had I simply don't see what I mean
Like have you guys seen my video?
Yeah, so there's so much more than that first hours twitter arguments
Jack, you know, this is disingenuous
Yeah, you went over like twitter. I would say for like maybe like five minutes. So like
I feel so condescending once again
So so so jack, uh, the hour is skippable because the hour is is addressing
What my issues are with with critics of the current day?
uh, or at least select amounts and how
I'm finding a pattern in how they they've achieved
They do a thing and they make some errors and all of these errors can actually be sort of shoved into the same category
The idea is as a setup in the first hour where I uh display them all separately and then uh,
I think it's 20 minutes near the finale where I imply
how all of them are falling into the trap of um
Generating subjective references based on whatever bias they hold and I know that you could be like that's what you're doing
And i'm like, okay, but you've got to prove it
You can't just take me out of context and then say i'm
A long man bad. It's like it's not enough. Um
so like
inserting politics into your position, uh
Taking a position you don't actually hold that'll get you views because other people have been saying it
Like that this is it wouldn't be objective because you just got nothing to support. It's just a statement
Um, that was that's down with thrust. There's a whole bunch of them. And so the twitter argument is h bomber guy saying that yes
i've proven
that there are
Bad hit boxes in dark souls 2 as in the hitbox does not match the model
And then he goes on to say that that's not an objective flaw
And so it's just like what?
Huh?
How does and also the the irony of him talking about how you would you put twitter?
Criticisms and arguments in your video like that's inherently pathetic and then him refusing to directly debate you
Whether or not you have a certain number of people he doesn't like and then just bitching for like eight fucking hours on twitter
And basically just I wouldn't call it subtweeting because obviously everyone knows who he's talking about but it's just it's like dude
You can't act like you have better shit to do you're being just as much of a man child as you're accusing mauler of being
Choose one choose one of them
So the twitter thing could only be applied to the h bomber guy section and he likes h bomber guys
That's probably why he picked on it and that section. I think you can see tweets on the screen
For probably three minutes in total in the first hour
Maybe
I'm trying to be over overestimate, but you know, who knows maybe it's more but it's uh, the whole hour jack really the whole hour
Okay
Try five minutes free hour long critique which
I mean the first hour is just more talking about twitter arguments. He had I simply don't agree with your approach to video game criticism
It's a little immature to write so such an impression by the way
Explain this to you
Like if I was to make a scripted video and then I go
I don't need to respond to jack's long critique is not deep critique because the entire 53 minutes is just him talking about how
I use twitter and then I showed this small
10-second clip
Yep, so I gotta do and then i've done it and that's what you've done to me and you
lack like the most basic self-awareness to understand that
It's as if you've achieved objectivity and i'm out to make you look crazy for it and i'd recommend like
Chilling out seeing it come out just two days after race evicts mass effect andromeda overview
A full rundown of the game's development cycle. These are not the same thing jack
What I was let's see how he equivolates this
It's just going to be a long full breakdown of content that's detailed and in in depth versus mine
Let's change the subject and pretend it's connected
It's a little immature to write as if you've achieved objectivity and i'm out to make you look crazy. I love that voice
And i'd recommend like chilling out seeing it come out
Just two days after race evicts mass effect andromeda overview a full rundown of the game's development cycle
As well as provide key insights into aspects of the game
Which may have contributed to it being so unpalatable to many players and why in just under an hour?
It's certainly unfortunate contrast. What do you think my videos are if not?
An argument from objectivity where I can as best I can or why people find the last jedi and the force awaken so impalatable
I find it interesting his choice of using clips like he says that your entire hour is like, uh, it's a twitter rant
so
And then in this other video he shows like a quick time lapse like a sped up clip of what he's referring to now
If that were true about you having like just an hour of twitter arguments, why didn't he speed up?
Like lengthy examples of your twitter arguments. Yeah, i don't know
Yeah
That makes you think yeah, but actually listen to what he's saying. He's he's comparing apples to oranges
It's like so what this movie came out two days after this other guy's video
This movie is funny. The people were afraid of my work because movies that i was like, it's not wrong. It's funny. Uh, but
the
Yeah, the the idea that me and ratific are gonna have completely different approaches and completely different goals
So to just be like he's got a video and I prefer it it's better
Sure, man
The players and why in just under an hour?
It's certainly unfortunate contrast when you get an hour
So my opening hour is not about why the force awakens is unpalatable. So comparing it to race evicts makes no sense
Yeah, four and a half into this critique and almost nothing has actually been said about star wars the force awakens
You know, there might be a problem jack again. Sorry about this, but it's just it's like your
Biggest blind spot. I I put a skip function at the beginning and I explain what's going to be in the intro before the intro
Happens for people like you who don't want to listen to it
What else do you want me to do outside of separate it which I ended up doing shorter videos you fuck
Longman bad
Don't worry though, this is only the intro so it doesn't matter that we spend a whopping hour with maula
just kind of well if the entire project is is 15 16 hours and one hour is the introduction that means it would be
Seven percent of the project was introduction as reasonable, isn't it in terms of a ratio? No, fuck you. It's long
I
Like so many more things then, you know, yeah, I know it's complicated to refer to it as an introduction, which is what I do
Doesn't exactly encompass exactly what's in there. But I mean
Why am I even trying to explain this to jack at this point of ranting about disagreements he had about yeah
There's nothing to do with me trying to discern how reviewers and critics are using a conflation of objective
argumentation and subjective argumentation to
Approve points and then hide away from criticism of them
That wasn't the focus of it at all and it wasn't intrinsically designed to spike all of these different ways
They do it and then conclude on that
whatever
People thinking he's too pushy with his personal opinions on movies
Regardless of how they feel regardless of how mark feels regardless of how the world feels
I feel like it was a terrible decision from a man who had a fan story to tell
And no one could convince him of anything different because he had the final word on the script
I'm incidentally going to we're dealing again with another clip where he's played it and we're supposed to interpret what he's trying to say
I think that clip kind of related to the thing he was saying
Improvement. Good job. Well done. He's getting better
my
I thought that he was trying to imply that my criticism of ryan johnson is ironically able to be reflected upon me
The idea that i'm claiming ryan johnson went ahead with his ideas despite
How awful they were sort of and almost as if that's what I did with my videos
I couldn't see how awful they were, you know, is that dragon could be it?
I would say that's probably what he's got. I think I would say there's definitely an argument for that being what he's going for
But he doesn't really
Yeah, so um, and if that's the case like jack you
Good for you, man. I'll reflect the argument on you too
Wait, so now he's he's reflecting. He's saying that your arguments can be reflected on him
While all of his reflect arguments
No, he's saying that your arguments can be reflected back on you while all of his arguments can be reflected back on him
Which means you can reflect that argument back on him, which is like three layers of irony in the like perception
I think is the word you're looking for in the flag
Just
You nailed it
Different because he had the final word on the script i'm incidentally going to ignore the argument that I can't make these points
Because it's only parts one of us. Why not you've ignored literally other every other fucking argument
No, he's trying he's trying now to be fair fucking 46 minutes in i'm gonna give him the benefit of the doubt
I've realized now i've not been fair whatsoever. So
Maybe you know I can change the way can I just say I wouldn't be surprised if some of this stems from the fact that
Mahler has a really great voice and this guy's just kind of whiny and doesn't know how to properly like rig a microphone
That's a nitpick
That's an ad hominin. That's a that's a long man
Jack if you need help with your microphone with like soundproofing
And you know getting like a good mixer set up. Let me know because it just sounds like you're talking into a camcorder
I think we can make some decided improvements
I mean
Yeah, I would have literally been using it
Two years now so get the fuck out of my face with that yellow
I've just replaced it. You're now hearing me through
I don't know if that's how you pronounce it
It's not the thing you drive on. It's a mic. I might hit you up on that later
It's the same mic sargon uses frog frog said maula's voice speaks for itself
I guess it does
Because it's only parts one of a series
Mola himself argues that doing so is like sending back the whole meal because you don't like the potatoes
Uh, so okay, so we're gonna address the the thing on screen first
Um, so so he's saying like moles position is and you did this at the beginning if you don't look at the entire project
You cannot criticize project. Um, not a position i've ever held
It's always been that you criticize you you've accounted for what is relevant
Uh, which he's fucking adept at not doing it's almost like he's baited this efap because you just put that on here like
Yeah, molar. I know you're gonna do an efap. So just keep that in mind. I've outplayed you i've predicted what you're gonna do
It just comes off really defensive. He's got clarification. So
He's clarifying my position now when earlier in the video he left it blatant. So again, just mischaracterization
He's actually comfortable with it in this scenario
Uh molar is actually fine with critiquing part one as long as you've seen the whole thing not just only some of it
Keep that in mind efap fans
That's not even my position you can critique part one if you've seen half of it. It just depends on what you're doing exactly
um
So if you said like all of part one is terrible because of this thing in part one halfway through and then i'd be like
Why does that make the entire thing terrible? It's like I don't know. It's just it's really bad
um
Why do I and i'm just like can you reference a few more things?
And then it's like well, I just I haven't seen all of it yet
So I don't know there's probably bad things in there. I should be like that's that's not good enough, man
Like what do you want to do with that? Um, I don't know man. I skipped the potatoes. What do you want?
Yeah, and so he references an analogy and i'll have to give context again
This is becoming the strongest pattern ever on efap for this particular video. Um
so
Someone complains that they watched 10 minutes of part one of my series on h barmer guy
And they said that they can determine the entire thing is awful
And then I was like that's retarded makes no sense
Good luck with that and then h bomber guy stepped in and said, um, so if you begin tasting a meal and it's
Terrible, you're not allowed to say I don't want to finish the meal
And then I was like if you taste a potato
And then you say excuse me chef
Everything you've cooked is terrible
And then you'll be like you haven't even tried anything beyond the potato
It's like it just wouldn't be valid and that's what's happening with these
And so he's about to correct the uh the analogy
So that's the context of it and this is his take on it
Argues that doing so is like sending back the whole meal because you don't like the potatoes
And this is am only in that looking at the way the cook serves up one portion is a good indicator of how they'll serve the rest
Will I turn away the so his counter would be that by tasting the potato
You now realize how the cook may or may not have cooked the rest of the meal and you can make a judgment based on that
And I would be like yeah, but that would be an assumption
It's not anything substantive. You just said I assume by this that you do this
Yeah, that's not enough if I was literally just talking about food say
You could tell probably that the meal is going to be shit if
Okay now I don't understand what the hell you're saying no that was satire I was only catching satirical reasons
Uh-huh you got me when you ask get it mauler and then when you ask, okay, what's wrong with the potatoes?
I'd like to fix this and it was like well, I don't I don't know who cares
It's bad. It's not potato. That's why and you're like, but it's a literal potato. It's not a potato
Okay. Thanks, man. I'm never coming back here
Your view of this food is subjective mauler your potatoes are too long
Sir that's a baguette
Probably not. I like to give things chances. That's why aside from finishing the docs. I was too critique
I've made my way through most of what mauler has made only skipping breakdowns here where I feel like I
This potato is moldy. Yeah, but can you explain why that makes the potato bad?
Objectively
It's subjective you just don't like so the guy says ah, well your name shall be han
Solo you so he thinks the point i'm making when han solo gets provided his name
So arbitrarily and clinically is that uh, it's unnecessary exposition
Like that's the only issue
You could have unnecessary exposition for how han got his name and you what you do is you have his parents holding him as a baby
And then they go his name will be
Unsolo that makes complete sense. But man, that would be unnecessary. We just be like, okay
We we get that that's not the only issue with this scene
Did anyone here love how han got his name?
I thought it was okay
So uh, I I realize that after hearing your comments that i'm probably gonna have a lower opinion
What what are your uh, what are your what are your people? I don't I don't have any people. Oh
and solo it is
What the fuck?
Um, I don't think the exposition the problem is being unnecessary. I think the exposition is is a poor attempt at giving him a name
and it's
Silly enough to even have this scene in the first place
Okay, your name is uh han. Uh loner han individual
It's nice and catchy sure
On no means they're right folks han's name comes from some random officer deciding it sounded neat
We didn't even need an origin scene for his fucking name
Also, I find it amusing that you're an origin film
But you couldn't be fucked to explain how han solo can speak wookie in the first place. So, um
The second comment is more addressing the fact that this is supposed to be where han started
And he starts as a good pilot. He starts being able to speak wookie. He starts
Being great with a pistol. It's like what the hell?
What is the point of this if you're just going to skip all the things that make him individually special?
Yeah, fine, I guess
Um, but um, yeah, I just find it amusing that he can just speak wookie. It's like why though?
If if we'd never seen the ot and you watch solo you might be like can he just speak can everyone speak all alien language?
Is that a thing and then you watch the ocean like no one else can speak wookie
Yeah, and they don't even have to really exposit it. I mean while where he's working. There's maybe there's like wookiees there
I don't know. Yeah, that would be perfect pretty much. Just
Pretty much just that's all that it has to do maybe have a couple wookiees passing by and then at that point
We could just gleam. Yeah, he must have learned how to communicate with these
Yeah, like I wouldn't just have the one because we probably like oh, that's funny
Like he says hey frank. I just wookie it goes. Oof, and we're like, oh, that's just sad that he could speak wookie. Okay
What if that's it?
That's still more consistent than what they did
Yeah, but yeah, so and jack has taken those two clips as me saying
Unnecessary exposition is bad and no exposition is bad which aren't even conflicting statements
No
Who he thinks they are and it's like desperate for contradictions at this point. Yeah
He's he's like I have to tie this together somehow
He's created a straw man and he was defeated by his own straw man in this case
Like that's really embarrassing fucking name
Also, I find it amusing that you're an origin film but you couldn't be fucked to explain how Han Solo can speak wookie
I guess he's defined them both as unnecessary, uh experts, but that wasn't my points in the clips. He's showing so nice try
In the first place standing the whole like his counter argument against the storm and he created his inefficient lace having done
So i'm remarkably unsurprised the maula still doesn't get why some people disagree with his methodology and I will say the exact same thing
back to him
Again, what is your methodology that he's aware of?
Long man bad long. Is that it? It's just yeah because it's quantity is large
Have you heard like in the time that you've been listening to this like he keeps coming back to it
What is it? That's a fair question. Ask jack. What is maula's methodology?
Are you be like nip picking length?
Like that's not that's not what the methodology is this means you take your time and you explain things
But he doesn't like the explanation because it's not
Doesn't have any depth to it doesn't have any meaning to it
You're like, okay
What which one which point?
Does not have that depth or meaning because the whole point of criticism is depth or meaning to find meaning in work
So
If you can't see it, like what is he listening to?
Place having done so i'm remarkably unsurprised the maula still doesn't get why some people disagree with his methodology in particular
Trying to spot contradictions in other people speaking authoritatively about the objective quality. I think I did that though
phoenix right music
Possibly it is phoenix right music when like sad shit is happening. That's the sad theme from phoenix right one
Well, he's trying to imply i'm so confused the maula can't tell how wrong he is
I mean like hey good on you, man
I fucking love phoenix right but
Couldn't you play like the investigation theme?
Or like the fucking courtroom theme?
Like since you're going for kind of an objection turn about gotcha sort of moment like as a phoenix right fan
I'm appalled by your choices here
This is like game with the courtroom with the anime guy in it. Yeah, you might as well just bring back the scary violin
Media because as eric points out maula confuses a well-founded argument for an objective one
You guys haven't explained what an objective argument is and what a well-founded argument is from your perspective though
Well eric eric did at some point like, you know understood, you know what objective meant but then
You know fell on her face and just said yeah
That term really pissed me off. I'm like, what are you trying to do if you're not defining terms of giving proper examples? It's just
They have these words in their minds and they expect us to understand their heads
And they don't give proper explanations and they misconstrue maula's points or don't even use them at all
They make they don't even use them
We'll use what they can make for you
Yeah
When his critics put out videos saying subjectivity is implied
they're
Well saying that the subjectivity of their views are implied as if we didn't address this
in that podcast
Jack why it's such a weird moment of just like
Subjectivity is implied. We know this because subjectivity is implied
Just like thanks, man
You nailed it
It's a psychological present in a lot of other things that don't really get far in terms of argumentation
They still make room for disagreements where maula will dedicate hours every week to mocking those who disagree with him
That's all I do right guys mock everyone who disagrees with me
That's all your content is right? You're just you're just a big meme boy
Have we ever like correct me if i'm wrong, but we've never promoted a channel on efap
We've never celebrated fan creations on efap
We've never covered someone and said they've made good points on efap
We've never covered someone on efap and said the video as a whole was actually pretty good. These things have never happened
Okay, nope. Yeah, never it's not really for the format. Yeah. No because what we do is mock people who disagree that's it
Also, it's impossible to learn from what you say
I'm just gonna go with that as a mistake
I didn't buy overload based on uh
Major lee's review nah, he's a poop face. How is he is a poop face every week to mocking those who disagree with him and
Front-loading his frankenstein monster of a critique overview. What is this if not picking a fight?
It's different because he's virtuous, okay, he's virtuous
He's right. I genuinely think his um, his argument for that would be it's different i'm right
Well, yeah
But he's accusing me of being that blind that's the funny part
It's like whether or not I am jack you're doing the same thing
Bring back eric. He was so lovely eric was lovely
This man's mean
I wait for eric in this video than the wolf one because the wolf one felt much more like on the offensive
Well, this one felt more like he was like, this is just how I feel about it
Okay, kind of circling the wagon a bit for some reason it seems like eric actually did watch these videos
And then this guy did six like at all
I don't know what this guy did or he watched it once and just was like, oh, yeah
Just took notes like I don't like that. I don't agree with that
Yeah, and then just kind of took eric's word for the rest of it
He just referred to my work as a frankenstein monster. I'm just like, what do you think that means jack?
Don't get it. What a frankenstein monster of a critique overview picking fights with people
But don't worry
This is only part didn't I say i'm open to discuss anything with any of them and I didn't throw any insults in the tfa
Video, I just I presented contradictions. That was it. Yeah, they're the one dictating terms to make this happen
And then fucking digging their heels in on twitter for like
Nine hours or some shit at this point. That's one of this six parts 15 hour film review says that as if it's intrinsically bad
Oh my god, it's what mauler. Did you know that this is fucking long? Why is it long? Stop being long long, man
Fuck you
Jesus christ, why else can you even draw from this? He thinks it's intrinsically bad
It's self-evident that when you make long content, I don't like it. So stop you cunts
He's given examples of other people who make good long
Only bad when mauler makes long content. All right, it's because you're on a different political spectrum from him
I feel like that's where a lot of beef is coming from as he thinks you're nazi. Oh
Take this motherfucker down
He wouldn't be the first person who's made attempts at legitimate arguments at how i'm trying to hide my political perspective
In these videos and you know when you accuse er of it
There's a discussion that a lot of people have but when you accuse me of it, i'm like, can you even point?
Something in my videos that's political. They'll be like it's just the fact that you you say logic trumps feelings
Like you're using facts and logic and ben japiro said it therefore you're alt right. Yeah. Oh
Cock the lib tards
What are stories but mystery boxes right? Oh, no. Yeah, we're gonna tackle that but not for about 12 hours
And again, so that line was put in in a redraft because I thought it would be really funny
Yeah, I was like I think I explained this before but it was like I wouldn't have known it was 12 hours until i'd completed
Several drafts because I can actually give an estimate on what the timing will be
I put it in because I was like
It's such a bizarre statement to hear right to be like we're going to return to this in 12 hours
You'd be like what it's like. Well, that's how long this year legitimately
How how do mauler just like you have no idea how long yours are going to be because i'll just write out a long script
My video right now is at 18 pages on like why the new seasons of fully coolly the anime are really really bad
And I have no it could be anywhere from like 25 minutes to like an hour and a half
Like do you have any way of just my ratio is five thousand words equals half an hour with the rate I speak
Okay
And you probably base it off past work too, so it's like yeah, it's it's it's fairly accurate
I've got a series of currently only made one part of um about
10 of the way through the script and it's about half an hour long so far. So it's going to be fucking immense
You're sorry for ripping you off mauler. I made a long note. You will be long man bad
No, but what other people did it's good
Again, none of this gives any greater depth to mauler's arguments. You haven't argued that
He'll go on a tangent about the terminator films as an example of how law contradictions can lead to
A franchise falling apart ignoring the fact that the apparently contradictory terminator 2 is what most people preferred anyway
What citation fucking you needed what does so for clarification for anybody doesn't know right?
uh
Big fan of the terminator series specifically one and two obviously, um
You get
Two introduces a lot of interesting ideas for how this is all going down because it was the idea of desperation in the first one
machine sent one robot back in time
You're like, oh and the humans could only send one human back in time
You're just like that's the rules. Okay, fine
And the second one was like actually they could also send a robot and the good guys could also send a robot too and you're like what?
Okay
That's strange and that's outside of the few other more floors intimidated
But then like that's just the it's like, okay
That's that's something then everything goes insane in terminator three four and five especially genesis
And now he's saying like you're ignoring the fact that this is something people like it's like
I don't the whole point of my discussion is not about whether or not you like it
It's providing contradictions and breaking the world, which he actually said
He was like more was trying to explain why the world inconsistencies or logical
Insistencies can can can break the world building, but he ignores the fact that some people can like it
I'm like that would be subjective. I'm not talking about that
Yeah, and I don't think he ever actually says that by the way
Who says that that they love the continuity breaks specifically?
That's the part of terminator. They love I'd be like, okay
I can almost guarantee a lot of people just completely glossed over it or didn't even really think about it at that point
Nobody ever talks about that, you know
Well, uh when I watched this with glib for the first time I was like does this do you get the impression at this point?
The video where he's just running on fumes. He's like he talks about too many
It's as bad people like it though. She's wrong
So just like my criticisms are self-evident
Yeah, just just think about it
If you just did a videos that were like 10 minutes long just pointing out every flaw
Would that make any difference this man's opinion? Oh, it's it's not at all
He's really stuck in his way. Like it does not matter what you say at this point
We've already covered the fact that you've been critical of h bomber guy and he apparently
Is uh allied so to speak with h bomber guy like, you know, he's listening to everything that you're saying and then on twitter
He's just making an immense amount of bad faith arguments misrepresenting you and he doesn't think he's misrepresenting you
But he just is cherry picking and nitpicking every single thing you say and responding to it in the just the most cynical way possible
I don't think there's a single way to change this man's mind
This is another argument as well. You could literally make straight back at him
because it's like
Oh, what's he's what's he saying? Fuck?
Uh, he's saying that oh, yeah, well he points out problems in it
He while also in this same video trying to point out problems with walrus content
And then that's really saying that the people who like it have confused it for good content
So you you can do that, but other people can't so you mean yeah the
He's saying that i'm accusing tyminator being bad despite people liking it
And it's like aren't you accusing my content of being bad despite people liking it?
And he's like yes, but they're fooled into it while the people who like tyminator are just legit
Like oh
Their opinions are wrong, but these people's opinions are
He's falling into his own trappings most people preferred anyway
Ignoring the fact that the later entries had myriad aspects people disliked which had nothing to do with breaking canon
Um, I didn't argue against that. I never said that the only thing people didn't like about tyminator genesis was breaking canon
So your point doesn't contradict anything I said
Yeah, you didn't even really go that much into genesis because you were going to make a separate video anyway
Yeah, that movie is a fucking nightmare like I watched it too
I I just saw it and I was like this doesn't look good as a
Huge tyminator one two fan
It's like watching someone die in the cinema
They literally erased tyminator one two three and four in that movie
I'm excited to hear your thoughts on it. It'll be a fun video when I get around to it
It's all just in the mix and each individual point is lost in this murk of
Well, apparently you picked up a lot of the individual parts
He likes to take those fucking air quotes
He uses them a lot. Why do stormtroopers have laser versions of medieval weaponry available? I don't know how more
Yeah, that's that's a thing. Yes, you fucking do you're just being a bitch
Oh, sorry. I didn't hear that bit coopers have a laser versions of
Does know I genuinely believe that
You keep cutting out why you cut out
Yeah, you should use push to talk. I think maybe the sensor is it might be
Maybe my microphone knows better
Discord's been glitching out on my microphone lately as well. So I'd like to see that
Yeah, do that or push to talk I think you're just get up real close to it jay get up real close
Oh, hello, baby
Hello, no, no make that point baby do it. Tell us your thoughts my friend. I
Will fully believe that he actually didn't know how you're gonna take this
I I believe that's something he didn't well. One of the problems for him is that he thinks I haven't heard all this before
Um at one point he says something
I think eric says that maul has heard this argument before so they're aware that i've heard some of this but
I don't know why jack thought that this was such a hot take on my content when so much of it
Relies on not seeing my content
It's just like inherently contradictive but then again contradictions on a thing for these guys, I don't know
It's entirely possible if I wanted to take the jack approach and just be really cynical. I could just say that he did this for views
Uh, or maybe to you know quote unquote as the term goes virtuous signal to his friends that you've apparently blasphemed
Apparently there is a view market in criticizing me or wolf or rags, which is
Really sad if that's true
Because I think it's true
Clearly at one point. I wanted to make the argument against him on twitter like oh, yeah
I mean why make your own positive videos praising stuff when you could just like
Take down other people or other ideas and then I remember it
I was like, oh fuck molly does that that argument does not hold water at all. I mean, yeah, I would argue it's that
Is
This you know, the the the amendment I would make is that he's doing it dishonestly
But obviously he would probably accuse me of the same thing
It's just that his arguments wouldn't hold any water while mine would extremely dishonestly
Yes, and it is it sounds so vain when you say it out loud. It's like well
What do you think the last seven hours was like this literally us lining it all up for him?
This couldn't be any more straightforward. It was like it was too long though
It's like okay if his script was better if that wouldn't need to exist
There you go, this was a lesson for you jack
I don't know how to help you take this video whether it might spark
Introspection as to whether he feels he's most effectively putting his points across with this increasingly bloated format
Or if you'll double down insist i'm trying to police him by offering my own perspective
I like that he implies doubling down like like I
I just ignore him and just keep going it's like you haven't really addressed anything of mine yet
Like i'm double down because there's nothing he'll either agree with me and make positive changes to his content or he won't
And he'll be a stubborn fuck he'll agree. I'm right on everything
He'll be an asshole
Like okay. Yeah, okay
First of all jack when you say it when you frame it like that that implies that anything you said had validity to it
Or anything could be used to positively impact molar script. It did not it was just you taking little snips here and there
Yeah, and we're about to hit a rapid fire
Uh hits against my character
That is possibly the worst part of his video
But we'll have to take it nice and slow because I know that he thinks that he's just being honest
But there's so much context to each of these that will happily go through
Oh, give me a sec
By offering my own perspective molar has not had a great history with those he disagrees with
Even going back to his early work picking fights with mark brown for criticizing dead space
We got that one now, that's my vivisection on
Guidance which was a series I was gonna do. It was like the topic that spans across video games or movies or media or whatever
Um, I have a lot of issues with mark brown's channel in general. I just think that he finds a way to say nothing in 10 minutes
Usually but he got a bunch of things wrong with the games
He was referencing and his ideas on how to build a tutorial for me would just they were way too simplistic and they don't apply to
What all games would encompass it's like a like a guide on game tutorials
And I was like this doesn't apply to all games even slightly
Um now molar you were picking a fight with him. Just stop doubling down, dude
Jesus christ disagreeing with somebody is picking a fight therefore jack is picking a fight
Therefore his criticism of meteor is just hypocritical even if it's true. So it's just like whatever jack moving on to the next claim
He's called opposing critics massive faggots. So, um
In my soma series
I'm disagreeing dramatically with joseph anderson and I start ending our counter arguments with insults because I thought it was funny back then
I didn't realize so many people would take it so seriously as as like a definitive character judgment on me as
Um potential homophobe or just an asshole
Um, so I dropped insults and you can see that rags and wolfs still keep them because as far as they're concerned
It's just ridiculous to take it the way that these people do
Um, and I will defend their right to use them
But I deliberately don't to try and avoid giving them bullets
But as you've seen they immediately use them the second they get it
It doesn't matter what the context is in in in context of the video
You were basically calling him like an annoying
You were just awesome
Um in context, it was funny. You were just jabbing him like oh grow up. That's how it came off
and so, um
I mean, this is this is just gonna follow me forever, but it's fine with me because I absolutely stand for this
like you could call it a policy I guess or a political belief or a value I have but um
It doesn't matter what the insult is. It matters the context. It was delivered. Um, and so yeah, I call him a massive faggot
which by the way
There is no context I've ever heard someone seriously refer to somebody as a derogatory manner to be like an aggressive homophobe
You're a massive faggot that to me just like it's just like are you kidding me?
It's called having a sense of humor on the internet, which is already very edgy in sincere like that's that's the point
And so next up from that then, um, I also refer to joseph anderson as a cabbage
Soon after or before that and I show a picture of a cabbage on screen because it's just so dumb as an insult
But it's kind of funny because of how dumb it is
And so turbo button spoke to me about this specifically
He considers joseph anderson a close friend and he said he didn't appreciate me using a homophobic slur against his friend
And I went over this conversation extensively with him and the conclusion was
He agrees that I have a principle
How insults function and how you should offer somebody the benefit of the doubt in understanding their intention
With the word they used and he said he disagrees with it and as far as he's concerned
It's more uh based on how it makes someone feel
And I said to him that that is exactly why I said to joseph
I'm apologizing for that making you feel the way it did
But I don't apologize for the action because the action is absolutely justified in
Essentially what my worldview is which is I can call you an idiot. I can call you an asshole
The second I call you a word you don't like I've crossed a line that was imaginary for me
But it was something for you
And so you can't have a consistent principle on that and one of the examples I gave turbo button was um
If the wheel decided tomorrow that the word toilet is offensive
Everybody you know and love gives you an awful look and goes silent whenever you say the word toilet
How long does it take before you stop using that word?
Legitimate question i'm curious what you guys think as soon as i've realized that they're not joking
And it's not some elaborate prank
And so you realize that it's just based entirely on how offensive someone takes in since that differs from person to person
I'm not interested in that as a principle is retarded. So i'm going to go with uh
Intention, I think it's much stronger as a principle and it'll define what a person
Is intending to do and so when I said joseph you're a massive faggot
um
He hasn't seen the video of the context and he tweeted at me saying someone once told me you called me a massive faggot
So i'm good. I'm not going to speak to you. I was just like
It would have been interesting if he just came into your your um podcast and just said so is that true?
Just like ask you himself and said well, I was told this so that's how a lot of people like these days
Seem to think it's like well, I was told you're a racist. So sorry. I don't want to be associated with that
Don't gotta look any further than that. Yeah
It's good enough for me
I'm an adult
And and yeah, and um, and so I I said i'm sorry that it made you feel that way and joseph
Anson came back with i'm glad you've apologized for those actions because they're like inappropriate
I was like, no, no, I don't apologize for the actions
I'm apologizing of how you feel and so joseph is like so you're not actually apologizing at all and that's the same position table button
took
And um, I explained it to table button with a simple analogy and he took it well
I can't say for definite if he still maintains that it's a valid analogy, but we'll see
I'm pretty sure he accepted it. So the idea is um
Health insurance person a big big old fat dude at 60 comes in he's like I need it
Needs health insurance because i'm gonna get surgery for a thing that they're like i'm sorry
You breach all of our um requirements to take on um health insurance
Your insurance would be through the roof if you actually want to buy it and even if
That would the case but we're not going to allow it. We're going to deny you
Then he's like i'm literally going to die. I can't afford the surgery if you do this and then they will say
I'm sorry, but you know
I have to do this. It's gonna have to be done. And so they don't regret the action
They're sorry for how the person feels as a result the circumstances. Yeah, and once I said that to table
He was like, okay, I I get it and it's like yeah
And he's like I don't agree with it in that context and he said because the word
Bagot changes the context as far as i'm concerned. I'm just like that's arbitrary
I could I could just say that back to you with any word that I decide is offensive. So, you know
it's just there's this sort of trend of noticing like uh
I've had i've had conversations with people in the past where the topic will be the end word
And i'll i'll talk about like, you know
Or you know, we'll all be talking about like the origins of it or how it came to be that but then there's just people there
In that conversation that here you say that word and it just immediately triggers something in them and they're just like
You're not supposed to say that and just immediately I feel like that's what faggot has become
It doesn't matter what context you use it in as long as they hear it
You're a bad person
There's a bit of a push back and forth with it
right because one of the intrinsic arguments for it is that um, it's offensive to gay people but then when you get
Large amounts of gay people saying it's not
It's like fuck they're ruining our argument. It's like well
I got a I got a number of gay friends who say the word faggot like they don't care
They say it's a funny word. The awkward thing is that wolf and rags use it way more than I do on this podcast
And they're both bisexual. So
I was I was on that podcast with um, your movie sucks where we talked about the the death note movie
And he and I were both just saying faggot and like I kind of had the faggot card because he's gay
He didn't really mind
Like tuba button at one point said something like
You know
It's offensive to the group and then I said you can't speak for the whole group and then you said you can't
Speak for the whole group either and i'm like, that's true
So we're at an impasse you can't say that it's
Keep saying it and you get you have the right to be offended and me not to care
And yeah, so that's that's all of that and that's my take on it
It takes a long time to go through these things. These are complicated
But when you make shitty short videos judging somebody immediately, this is what the take you're gonna get with it
Picking fights with mark brown for criticizing dead space
He's called opposing critics massive faggots then taken back his apology when it doesn't come with full forgiveness
So his take on it is that I took back my apology because joe's fannison didn't give me full forgiveness
It's an interesting narrative i'm not sure how he generated it though
Yeah, well, i don't know how he generated most of this
um
Even eric has had a full hour of a live stream dedicated to mocking his physical appearance and
Calling him an autistic retard for disagreeing with one of his friends
Right. So one i'm sorry
Like this is this is what I mean. It's like oh my god, man autistic retard is such a dumb fine
You you find an offensive fine. So number one, uh, the I think it's an hour and 10 minutes
We we look into why he hides likes because it's something a lot of people are going to be curious about when looking into his video
On wolf and so this is his argument. We we responded to the argument
We exposed a lot of contradictions in the argument and there were several comments about his appearance. Absolutely. Um, the
narrative here is that we spent one hour mocking his appearance and we laughed as we called him an autistic retard
Um someone I talked to said they decided to check this out after seeing this in the video
And they couldn't find the direct quote from rags or wolf and not me, uh calling him an autistic retard
And I was like really?
And it was funny because wolf was already prepared to defend the fact that he'd used that word as as he already had
In the previous part and then he was like I might not have said it
It's just yeah, um
It's uh, it's a playground insult. It's silly
It's just added for flavor usually for entertainment all because I don't know you're in the heat of the thing
It's it's um something that can be pulled back and yeah
We can apologize if you're offended, but we would advise that you really shouldn't because it's really not that relevant. Um
But the way that this is running right now, these are all strikes against my character like one after the other I pick fights
I can't understand criticism
I um, I encourage the berating and mocking of someone solely for their appearance for hours on end while referring to them as autistic retards. I
Only apologize to people if they're going to give me what I want
But if they don't I pull them back. I hate this part of the video
It's very disingenuous and he's not even giving examples of like the name calling that he mentioned at least he hasn't yet
And like I told you how long does it take for me to explain the scenarios for each of these and how
Completely fucking different they are from his little passive aggressive conclusions
Yeah, can I just say?
Sorry
Um, no, it's cool. I was just gonna say really briefly
Uh for someone to take that and say his chats called him this and they were doing that first of all
you should never take twitch or youtube chat seriously on streams because
There's something called kind of like the bystander effect
it doesn't really like tightly apply to this but
Generally what it means is when you're surrounded by numbers you kind of feel anonymous
And that's kind of why everyone gets so ridiculous is because if you make a well
Argued reasonable point in a stream chat, it's going to be drowned up by everyone going oh long man bad
Like it's just the nature of the internet being so ridiculous and hyperbolic and energetic
Uh people and I think um, I think I was watching a video by the amazing atheist or something like a really old video recently
Where he basically talked about yeah people in my comment section
Say all these offensive things because they know you're going to see it and get really upset about it
And that's funny to them
Like they're trolling you if you really think all the people who are saying this shit 100 stand by it
Then you're really naive like a lot of it's just for gags
Yeah, like the fine line between going too far quote unquote and going far enough that you're shocking and funny
Yeah, a lot of people are just trying to get a list of funny reaction online
It's nothing to take personal umbridge with like I get
Plenty of shit all the time
I have people calling me a racist and a pedophile and all this other stuff just because other people have said it enough
And I just you know, you have to ignore it because if you
Say hey guys, look at all these mean bigots online
They're being really mean to me. You're just gonna make it worse because they're going oh cool. I got a reaction
Just to fucking just ignore them
They will go away and they're such a small number, too
Like why do you care all the people on twitter that hate me have like two followers?
It's like, okay, I can I can sleep just fine
Here's the thing. I wouldn't I'd say that he's wrong to find
Can that's loud. I'm not a huge fan of like people useless. I'm like
Although my opinions generally go as strong as I kind of wish he wouldn't do that
Like that that's as far as i'll take it
Yeah, and for the record I mean people don't like them
I'm against people taking pot shots at you know, eric's, uh sexuality or appearance or whatever
I think they they seem pretty lovely aside from some of the misinformed points they made but
You know, it's it's just
People they're going to be people in the real world
Who think these things and they're really nice to your face and then they get online where it's anonymous and then they get to joke
Around because they know that's like a taboo subject. They can't touch normally
So not all of it is necessarily full of hate and vitriol. It's just because it's like I can say it. No one can stop me
Yeah, and uh, they're they're always it's all very subjective in that if jay was like, can you not use the word?
Peanuts around me if he's friendly enough with me, I'll just be like sure man. Like I I don't need to use it
So i'll avoid using it
But if you tell me I cannot use the weird peanuts because it is wrong. I'll be like you're gonna have to argue that one
Yeah, you're gonna have to tell me why and if you can't then
You're gonna have a problem
So like again, like I use the word peanuts in front of him and he says like that's really hurt me because of
Some life experience i'd be like i'm sorry that hurt you and then you'd be like so you you regret using the word peanuts now
I'd be like
I mean
like it's
Specifically not necessarily like because it was useful to describe the thing I was holding
But I mean, I understand that it made you feel a certain way. So i'm apologizing for that
Peanuts are violence, man
Um, but yes, let's continue six massive faggots then taken back his apology when it doesn't come with full forgiveness
Even eric has had a full hour of oh and so after this as well
He says for it's worth mola was the least toxic in this conversation merely reading out abusive messages from chat and laughing as his friends
marked eric's appearance sexuality and
Mentality maybe mental mental state. Yeah, that's right
Um, so again about the whole principle thing
Uh, I would deliver them myself because I consider them funny and I would expect them in kind
But I know that people use them as bullets. I cannot control
Laughter and you'd be like, wait, so you find it funny to insult people's appearances and i'd be like, well if the joke is good
Typically, yeah, I find it shocking
And like i've I've laughed at my other people making jokes about me like I
Make jokes about white people straight people things that i'm in some jokes are just funny because they're so audacious
And you don't expect people to say it out loud and you say it out loud
You're like, holy shit, like the whole lucy k bit about like the parkland shooting was undeniably shocking and terrible
And like clearly from a place of ignorance and just like so incompletely spoken and that's why it was funny
Because you can either laugh at like, uh, yeah, fuck those parkland kids or you can go
Oh my god, did he really just say that he's gonna get so much shit like there's shock to it
Humor is very multifaceted. It's not you don't just laugh if you endorse something
You can laugh for a lot of different reasons
You endorse wolf and rags making those comments and i'd be like well my moral code would say that they
They've responded kindly compared to what's been done to them
uh same for me as far as i'm concerned with this stream the amount of shit that's been said about me and i'm just like
You're wrong. You're wrong. You're wrong. You're inconsistent and you're an asshole and I said fuck you
I think that's probably my biggest collection of insults and you could be like that's
Worse than me taking you out of context and selling you to be something you're not
I'd be like it's not really but I mean we can have that conversation if you want
Live stream dedicated to mocking his physical appearance and
Like we said a live stream dedicated to him like as if we we really were like, okay guys
We're gonna make a stream where we only say he's ugly over and over again
Hey guys in chat everyone. Let's bully this eric guy
Like yeah, that's totally what the stream was called if anybody is watching this video and constantly thinking like what liars
Uh, all these people are in efap go and watch the stream recovery
Eric tax on and have a little timer and start it and stop it every time we make insults and then look at the timer
at the end
See how much believe it or not. We're not a bunch of bigots
We're just really open and honest with the thing. I am i'm a bigot
Okay. Well, I don't speak for you, but
How can I just assume that about me? Wow, I actually don't like minorities and they're all subhuman
Take that sounds like disagreeing with one of his friends. So
Who knows?
More than likely he'll shrug this off because I didn't provide the full context of his work as he did with eric's last
Desperately, so we provided all the context necessary for eric's arguments
And you've not provided like even a sliver of context for what my arguments are
And calling out that that's going to be my conclusion does not invalidate my conclusion jack
He's going to be upset because I took him straight out of context and that's so dumb of him
It's like hey police you're gonna arrest me just because I killed that guy aren't you and then they're like
Yes, actually
Got you there. Wow figures. I just put the cuffs away. They're like you got me. Fuck
Mola if uh, if I say to you one plus one equals three, you're probably gonna say it's actually two which means you're wrong
But it's four
Oh shit, yeah, that sounds exactly
No by that logic as long as i've made a criticism of jack that wasn't the one you predicted that means it's valid
That's how this works, right? There was a second though where I just thought hang on fucking is it?
How many ones are in four two that's how that's how exhausted i've been by this stream
I'm really trying to ignore that the first hour of his new video is a highlight reel of the exact tactics
He calls disingenuous in others. Yeah, I do call him disingenuous. Uh, this video is a testament to that
Being valid is a criticism. I think
Up to and including attacking people's content without playing one piece of audio from said content. I'm not sure who he's referring to there
Yeah, I think plenty of audio
Push of twitter stuff that he is
Is it I don't play any audio from joseph anderson, but I do show uh comments from joseph anderson
Plus you've already covered all of this stuff at length
In efap. Sorry. I mean you could argue that's not efficient enough to justify it
But I mean it's a it's not intrinsically a wrong thing to do anyway, but I don't even think that that's accurate
Problem is you did play audio though
Yeah, I don't I don't really know where you're going with that one jack
But I can say that throughout the whole video again. So whatever maybe i'm wrong
Maybe I guess my aim is more on those who might be led to look at the popularity of maulers content and say, huh
Well, I guess that means I don't even need to consider how i'm discussing a work
I can just vomit out my 20-hour long space jam review and then be shot to the dude go for it
If someone out there wants to make a 20-hour review of space jam
Just fucking redraft a couple times
Try and avoid repetition focus on what you're actually gunning for in terms of the details
Fucking go for it make videos on what you're passionate about. It doesn't matter how long they are
Just get out what you want to get out. Um
But redraft to try and focus down and rip things out don't listen to people like this
Who would tell you that like no one can make a video longer than two hours without becoming aimless?
His evidence for it is all horseshit
Like yeah, just don't let him limit you
Like he's the villain in this story
My guess is that if anyone has made it this far in the stream, they're all
That's true
Although if someone is listening and they disagree with us and have disagreed with us this whole time
Your spite is well done for this year this far. Leave a comment below
Yeah, actually by the end of the part two parts. I want someone to comment if they survive both streams
Super quick super quick introduction someone in chat named oof oof said lal j is actually funny this stream
But also thanks this is like a depressed j jar jar picture i'm thinking of
Hmm
Discover people often miss large swathes of what i'm saying when i'm told i'm contradicting myself when critics
Misunderstand what i'm getting at?
I am what even sorry. What was that?
In reference to do that again how i'm discussing a work
I can just vomit out my 20 hour long space jam review and then be shocked to discover people
Often miss large swathes of what i'm saying when i'm told i'm okay jack
Uh, the I the fact that people don't like my work does not automatically mean that my work is bad
It's like inevitable. Uh, the fact that i'm making my work to try and oppose these status quo of shorter
videos that are
Made stylish to try and convince you that they've said something when they've said fucking nothing
Um means intrinsically that my content is going to be disliked by the people who like that content
so like
The fact that someone dislikes the thing you may does not make it automatically that the creator doesn't recognize flaws in it
There's more to it than that
Yeah
I guess that means I don't even need to consider how i'm discussing a work
I can just vomit out my 20 hour long space jam review and then be shocked to discover people
Often miss large swathes of what i'm saying when i'm told i'm contradicting myself when critics misunderstand what i'm getting at
I implore you to reconsider
This isn't a demand you can do as you wish but you people engage with material in this way
And it isn't just because they haven't thought about it. I don't serve yeah
I wouldn't accuse that everybody who just likes my work hasn't thought about it
I would accuse you of that. You've not only not thought about it, but you've like
Yeah, it's it's like he uh said. Oh my goodness this video of maulers is way too long. I'm gonna only
Cherry pick the things I like i'm gonna misconstrue them because I don't have the time and energy to go through every single
Comment or fact that he came up with and then i'm gonna attack his methodology. Whatever the heck that is
And make them on top of that
At the end he's going to imply that all you do is vomit out
Sorry vomit out long content like you don't really put a lot of time and meticulous thought into your work
Yeah, it's inherently insulting you're not here when he said I phoned it in
Yeah, seven redress. It's quite vomiting
Yeah, well that's the calendar for them
Does it count if I vomit vomit vomit back up swallow it vomit it back up swallow it seven times would that still be?
Good point. Yeah, he's right. Ultimately jack is right
That's vomit to the power of seven by the way
Yeah, by the way jack you are going to miss something if you keep skipping which you keep telling people to do
Oh, yeah, they both encouraged people to just skip parts of my videos. Those is like thanks, man
Yeah, you pizza the size at least they've recommended my videos in that way
To the dinner table and then insult you for not appreciating. Oh, sorry. This is such a wonderful analogy that makes no fucking sense at all
I'm getting skip it. I implore you to reconsider
This isn't a demand you can do as you wish but few people engage with material in this way
And it isn't just because they haven't thought about it
So his argument there is like few people engage with media this way and it's not because they haven't thought about it
And i'm just sitting there like that's fine
What does that have to do with anything?
Like the fact that I can understand the sheer length of the video
Yeah, he's gonna do that now
But um, I can understand that people being like the sheer length of your video is why I won't watch it
I could believe that there could be stuff that's good in there, but i'm not doing it and i'd be like, okay
That's fine, I don't need to understand further than that
Anyway, but then if someone watches it like you jack and like there's so many issues with this and you present it in this video
And i'm like, this isn't even me you're responding to
To reconsider
This isn't a demand you can do as you wish but few people engage with material in this way
And it isn't just because they haven't thought about it
I don't serve you pizza the size of a dinner table and then insult you for not appreciating the 19th slice
Did I order the pizza in this analogy?
Did I order a table-sized pizza
The idea that i'm forcing videos on people and then complaining where they don't finish them
I don't if if you're if your videos are food
Then I just have a couple slices and put it in the fridge for later because they're better
Exactly. You don't even you don't eat it in wall in you don't eat it all in one fucking sitting
Exactly in many instances you have said you can come back to it. There are plate. There are time stamps. You can watch it in chunks
What an awful analogy
And I don't throw out the benefits of clarity and decision in making a point
Yes, you do jack. Does every video need to be 10 minutes long?
Absolutely not and that's why I front loaded this video with creators who do produce insightful long content that I highly recommend checking out
Honestly, it's up to you and maybe you'll be the first person to do a day-long review of a fantasy family film
Without sacrificing the depth or clarity of your arguments
So this is the thing he thinks no one is capable of it
So at least I at least we have that like it's possible
He's like he's saying that I could be the first one to do it
But the fact that he said no one can do it. It's like, okay
He seems to really speak for a lot of people like uh, you know about people that don't like terminator one as much as two
Apparently like these few people he mentioned his arguments a bulletproof. It's just like citation needed fucking plastered all over this video
To see family film without sacrificing the depth or clarity of your arguments
I don't believe maula and those who emulate him do
I think instead what we're seeing is a group of people that just generally agree about movies
I wish rags and wolf was still here me and those two disagree on a lot of
Takes on movies and we have to talk it out and figure out what we consider to be inconsistent what things we're disliking or liking
Um, did we forget about the thor ragnarok thing?
Yeah, me and wolf really disagree on thor ragnarok
uh
Wolf said that interstellar is one of his favorite films and when I told him it's one of my most hated films
We had a big conversation about it. He watched it again. He said his mind has very much changed on the subject
This is the process that I think is really valuable
valuable about media
Where you sort of watch it with the old brain turned off sort of thing and then you come away like yeah
That was kind of fun and someone goes, you know
I thought it was awful and then it's your choice to engage in that conversation and you can be like
I really don't care to argue. I wasn't really passionate about it. I've said this
I said this to yms when I had a conversation with him. There was a movie that I don't like that he does
And he was like tell me what you don't like about it
And I was like, honestly, I need to watch it again. I'm not too passionate about it. So I can't really give you any like
strong arguments i'd rather just um
Tell you that I I don't like it and that um
It's uh, I can't remember why specifically until I watch it again, and that's absolutely fine
But if I was passionate with political discussions people ask me something about what do you think of the Benghazi thing or whatever and i'll just go
Oh, yeah, I don't really know i'll have to look more into it
I'll have to look more into it because I don't know of this stuff off the top of my head
Yeah, and that's like a fair thing to say it just means you're reasonable and you don't want to talk out of your ass
And what happens hopefully is that uh, I come home from the cinema and I go oh my god
The movie glumpus was really good. And then wolf is like what about the part where the protagonist glumpus?
Uh tries to shoot somebody and the bullet goes right through them and they just go
Oh, it didn't work and it's because he had a wallet in his pocket
Like how would that stop a bullet and I go that doesn't matter because it didn't bother me. Well, we'll be like what the hell
I mean, it doesn't bother you and i'm like
Doesn't bother me like that doesn't happen because we've agreed on standards
Well, I guess I guess I need to go into more depth than that, um
We understand the standards
Um, maybe we don't agree on every one of them and that's the part where discussion comes in
But it's just like we hold each other accountable to these things
We don't let each other get away with fallacious arguments. It's part of what I think makes the conversations much more. Um,
I don't know fruitful than jack can understand of them and I know that's a pretty cruel statement
But I mean i'm pretty sure i've got the room to say some things about him
Just one or two things, right?
Yeah, it's all the limits on your on your willing suspension of disbelief again
And in the case of the last jedi are the people who like these kinds of videos or who praise the show
Yeah, their brains are pretty much turned off. They're enjoying the popcorn and they're liking the
Special effects and the music and that's about it. There's it's great. It's a great time. Great show
We enjoyed it. Everyone had a good time. There's lots of exciting things blowing up. That sort of experience is what they're going for
so
We actually say hey
What what was this light speed ramming thing? What the hell why didn't they do that before and that doesn't bother me
Well, it doesn't bother me
But I do want to clarify the film is great, but that part doesn't bother me though
So can I get a chat really quickly? Sorry. Can I pull chat really quickly smud boy here with the uh,
uh
Fucking what's I forget what the name of the main character commander shepherd jesus christ?
Uh smud boy here with a commander shepherd avatar doesn't he have such a great voice?
Can you just listen to that chip for hours chase has a crush?
A little bit during yeah during the break. It's like oh we already heard subscribe to his channel
Go check out his videos. He responded. He responded to patrick williams
You're gonna uh, you're gonna go see gloopers together and have the uh bottom cut out of your popcorn bowl
Spend 10 hours with this jinja taking our souls, please stop
Getting a hundred percent. Yes rating from chat
I think we're actually very close to the end because he has the patreon outro I think
Have the same nitpicks and through enough circle jerking have essentially decided
Yeah, we don't discuss stuff. We just circle jerk
I know I would actually agree that there is circle jerking
But there isn't a friendship group that doesn't have circle jerking. I don't think it's possible
Yeah
That they are interpret that completely literally yes to a club where only they know what makes things
Objectively plenty of people know jack plenty of people i've never met before like wolf did before I met him
Fuck off good or bad who can ignore the fundamental flimsy subjectivity of their argumentation?
We don't ignore subjectivity. We use it in our videos. It's very important to us. What media means to us
We just like to separate it out when we talk about what's actually there and what's provable
This is what we felt about the things that were there
How many times do i have to explain this?
Well, they agree with each other and that gives them the right to push their evaluation of a work as a notch above the rest
For example wolf is talking about the gray area
Um subjectively that movie is through the roof for him because he associates with a lot of what the messages are in that film
I would probably agree with him
I'll probably agree with him on the objective level
But subjectivity for me is going to be so much lower than his and I should be like
Yeah, it doesn't surprise me though because I don't connect to it the way he does while I will connect with something that he won't
And that's cool being humans, I guess
Yeah, it's it's kind of it kind of reminds me of that. What's that game?
Night in the woods
A lot of people agree that it's really good
But like a lot of them say that it's a great game because they identify with the characters more than others
And so other people who don't identify with the characters have had less a good time with that one
So it's that one's, you know difficult to measure because you do have to feel like you identify with the characters
Which a lot of people don't in that regard. So
So in fact seek out those who disagree with that too
So he shows eric tax someone he says we seek out people to disagree with eric made a video on wolf first
We were responding to it
I don't think that's valid either, but
Like don't you guys think it's pretty amazing how many of his statements are invalid?
Like i'm impressed you'd think there'd be a ratio of like for every three bad ones
There's one good one. It's like nah, it's pretty much all of them
I'm i'm just depressed
He keeps doubling down on like look look at this remember that stream
I told you about where mauler and his friends like dedicated the entire stream allegedly
To harassing eric just a reminder that mauler's a bad person
Here's the stream again. If you didn't catch that mauler's bad, by the way, like it just it's so juvenile
You have to keep falling back on that
As a notch above the rest
To in fact seek out those who disagree with that to act like basic middle school bullies because
They've decided they're right
The length of the critique doesn't wind up deepening any understanding of the text. Okay only to obfuscate the lack there are sure
But hey, so that's his theory
I make my videos long to try and hide the fact that I have nothing to say about the thing
It sounds like he's being uh, he's really disincentivizing people to make long videos and prove uh,
Prove you they can do better than you how stupid does he think I am if that is what he truly thinks like i'm like
Man, I have nothing to say about this film. Well, i'm just gonna make my video the bullshit that long
I mean, that's that's what I do. It's like I want to make my videos so many hours long that people won't even notice
I'm not saying anything
It's like if you're a friend do give up like what is this plan? This is retarded
We can all agree that this long critique is not a deep critique in the slightest. Yes
That's just my opinion and you're free to agree or disagree
We knew that already, but thank you for the permission dad in the comments below
Pick more fitting music. Fuck you
We did this so sad. That's the end of this video. It's been done
Congratulations, aren't we at this point?
That would be what is that?
I think it was seven hours 20 minutes plus nearly two hours
That was awful
Try harder jack you can fucking not like muller and fairly represent his points it is not hard
Yeah, don't skip next time
Cheddar blowing up we did it
I've never been on the stream before where
After I feel like i'm definitely going to need to have a lie down
Yeah, I know i'm probably going to go straight to sleep. I'm actually hungry, but i'm just ignoring it
I'm going to have nightmares about jack subtweeting me on twitter. There's still some some stuff
We've got to get done
So let's move right on into the this is the i've sent click that link everybody in the thing and then
It'll show what i'm showing on screen. So
Um, well, I don't know why we won't just take it in turns
I suppose if you'd like so, um if uh jade you want to read the first one? This is um
I don't know you guys you guys take it. I'm horrible at reading. Okay, uh
Should we just call it between i'm a i'm a voice actor. I was gonna say we can all do it
But I want to give everybody one. So we'll start we'll go from the left to the right and uh, keep going like that
So that's bullshit. You want to go first? This is jack's
Qualification for why he was judging my rages with the standards I commit to in the critiques
Certainly the unbridled videos are identical in their argumentation to the real critiques one second
Let me uh, let me scoot this over to the other window here. All right
It is literally on record numerous times that mauler has tried to be as objective as possible
With the unbridled videos which are very clearly are not and he should probably stop saying that if that is not the case
I continue to be shocked that fans of mauler are now arguing
Actually the series that makes up the overwhelming majority of mauler's output is supposed to be tedious summary filled with mistakes and poorly argued points
so, um
entertainment value being
Lola's fucking stupid moving on to the next thing like he takes them and he's like that's not objective and i'd be like you're right
So, what are we talking about and he's like well
You said you try to be as objective as possible in those like with the objective points. Sure
I could already see the air quotes and him fluttering away with
So yeah, the fucking takes off like a propeller
What he didn't what he didn't grasp from my comment about tried to be objective as possible
Is that that applies to when i'm being objective versus subjective?
It's it's just I know it's confusing but it's like I don't need to have
When I say I couldn't see what was going on in the beginning of black panther
I don't need to explain that to you in any further
element like
So it was dark and I couldn't make out where black panther was standing and what he was doing versus
Where everyone else was and I couldn't tell who was winning the fight or losing
And then he's you'd be like, yeah, but you can if he was like i'm telling you I couldn't for fuck's sake
So, um, yeah, uh, it's pretty much an admittance that he just conflates the two
And all he ran on was a small quote from a stream that I had with wolf where I was just talking about how
Better to be as objective as possible and making objective statements
Simple as that and even if you'd be like you didn't say that explicitly i'd be like, okay. Well, that's what I meant
So does that clear this up? And then he's like
Then we said it's supposed to be filled with tedious summary and mistakes and poorly argued points
It's like no they're saying it's supposed to have
entertainment value points as in
I I rage out and I say this is dumb and I do
All these things it's it's entertaining because uh, it's supposed to appeal to how you
Guys may have felt watching certain movies like terminator genesis a lot of people are very fucking unhappy without movie
And they would have ran into their friends. And so when they watch me do a video like that, they can empathize
That is what they are for the critiques. I am very calm. I'm trying to provide all of the evidence
This they're totally different. But if you ignore that you should be able to find more arguments of inconsistency
So congratulations jack. I see why you did it
And jay are you gonna say something
All right. Yeah, I was but i've completely forgotten it now
Well, it's 6 a.m
Almost that's true. Um
Uh, so boy, do you want to tackle the next comment? This is from the comment section now
So this is what people are how people feel about jack's video on on me?
Oh sure. Okay
The effects will age the shoots will age
Every choice will age writing and storytelling is timeless
Talk about no appreciation for film like holy shit
Cinematography is a big part of making a film like it's a visual art
To throw that out and say that it's not very important is really head scratching to me
Also effects take a lot of work to pull off
Is to help immerse the audience into a film story in world
Um
so this is in context where i'm saying that uh
Writing these things don't matter to writing when i'm judging writing and they've extrapolated that I think
that um
I have no appreciation for visuals or cinematography even though I have a whole section addressing
uh errors in editing and I talk about how the film's got really great shots and there's a lot of things I like about it so
Unfortunately, you don't get that impression when watching jack's video because he's obviously not going to address those
things
Yeah, because he only quoted you saying like, you know graphics and stuff don't matter in the grand scheme of things
And he took away from that that, you know effects don't matter at all and which is not what you said
That's what he seemed to glean from it
Oh, that's good and we've got memes. Oh, yeah
I'm i'm gonna like and retweet that uh
It's so funny how instead of showing up on the podcast he just spent the entirety of the of he just spent the entirety of it just
Taking shots. It's like dude, we could have had a really great conversation
He could have clarified his points
You could have maybe mauler if there were actual points somewhere in that mess for you to take from it and like learn from
He could have taught that to you. But instead he's just being a bitch
It's like I would have loved to hear you guys talk and hopefully you still do even if it's one on one
I'd love that sniping because maybe maybe he'd have interesting shit to say
But he's just took long man bad. He's like I win i'm right
Uh chase do you want to read the next one?
Uh me yeah, it's your next in line i'm afraid
Oh sure, you didn't post in chat though. Did you yes, everyone has this up. Do they not?
Yeah, it's a uh little imager file
Uh the wow, okay one or yep. Yep
Wow, okay
I absolutely kind of had my brain break when hearing this mauler guy say that nothing but the writing matters
It's a visual storytelling format the premier visual
You fucked it up for a second the premier visual storytelling format not a single element of the acting the set design the lighting the prop
Work the camera work visual effects sound effects musical score and editing matter
Holy shit. That's a nuclear take
How can someone be so reductive about so many aspects of cinema and claim to be just the and claim to
Just be the deepest thing out there
I think I got the emotion right you skipped the line, but uh, yeah, you skipped a line
Oh, yeah, but the thing about it at least it was a new sentence
The thing of it is though. It's the same point that the the guy in number two made it's frustrating
Oh, um, it's an important line though
Uh, also the idea that while all of those may age writing doesn't there's nothing about the style or manner of delivery of movies
That hasn't changed and aged ever. So that would be the delivery. That's not the story
The delivery of the story. So if you have like a guy going hello there jane, we are going out for shopping
you'll be like oof that's
That's some bad acting
Yeah, that was acting for its time
You know and you so, uh the story itself if writing has aged the arguments usually come in with like
Are they using words that aren't accepted anymore? It's like, okay, but that wouldn't change the quality of the story
And you'd be like, okay
What about when they talk about things you wouldn't be aware of now like they refer to a piece of technology
That's been out of date for 300 years. I'd be like again, that doesn't take away from the story
Because it would then be a period piece. I suppose you could argue
We don't say this about movies that are based on medieval times
They don't work because we don't know what these things are anymore. It's like that's ridiculous. So
A strong story doesn't age
Like that's like try and attack that in any way you want
It's um, I would be open to it
But i'm pretty sure that's just definitive at this point because any reasons you come up with a story aging are usually not because it's
The story's fault. It's usually something else like how language changes or how time changes or how someone acted the line badly
It's like that's not the story's fault
Yeah
um, and yeah, the uh, the whole
Nothing, but writing matters like I never said that but thank you jack for
These people think I did. Um, so the next one is if internal consistency is the pinnacle of storytelling
Telling a great story is the easiest thing in the world
One day will he use the last two slices of bread to make a sandwich?
The next day he went to the store to buy bread because he had previously used up the last two slices there. I achieved greatness
so, um
Yeah, the this story
Is relatively consistent from what's in it
um, but being
Being objectively consistent. Uh
I don't know why you think that I think that means you've achieved greatness. I don't know where you're coming from with this and um
Let's just say as stories go
There's a lot of ways to break that down that would show its flaws beyond whether or not it's consistent about how much bread
You have in those two sentences
Yeah, it's just ridicule and the thing of it is it's all like it's not greatness every single time consistency is made
It's just it's nice when so much consistency
Is made over a long duration and it's like we should come to expect that
And the fact that it doesn't happen as often we see a lot of we see a lot of inconsistencies
To keep the plot moving
Like so often that it's just kind of it's nice. It's just really nice when lots of consistency happens
And that means we're moving on to the next one so back to you
Hold on. Hold on really quickly. Um, I've been starving for about three hours
But I uh, i've been sustaining myself off of the attention from your viewers and you my beautiful
Okay friends people, uh, i'm gonna go to bed because I gotta wake up in nine hours
And I like to get my sleepy sleeps
But thanks for having me on and uh, I doubt i'll really contribute anything meaningful to this part. So
Um, don't sell yourself short son. Yeah
I like you. I like it when you come on here chase. It's beautiful
Oh, thank you. My bubby. I'll talk to you boys later. Make sure to eat. You want to quickly say why people subscribe to you
Uh, you should subscribe to me because i'm turning into the anime equivalent of I hate everything in the video game equivalent as well
Uh, I don't give fucking anything a pass for the most part
And uh, my microphone was 600 that's all folks. Hey, i'm really picky about anime and I don't I haven't watched a lot
Maybe i'll tune into your channel. That's because it's it's all fucking bad these days subscribe to my patreon
Sorry that we fucked up. We're not supposed to promote other channels on here, right? That breaks the narrative. Uh, um, sorry could I also
Uh, i'm not saying i'm gonna leave for good, but i'm gonna go and have a lie down
Well, do you want to do you want to do you want to pimp your channel now?
So that in case you're not around when um, sure I started out two years ago by ripping off cinema sins
Then I ripped off harris bomber guy for a while and now i'm making an in-depth critique. That's a ripoff of maula. If you like, um,
Fucking garbage that's been ripped off from other people subscribe to me
Uh, if you don't then leave
Hey, sounds good
There we go. How did I do i'm i'm sure people will get a good impression from that right terrible
I don't know. Like why would anyone subscribe to jay? Let's be honest here. Uh, it's like morbid curiosity
That's true. So it's like, you know when you see like a train crashing it's hard to look away
Can we define your uh, the genre of your channel as a maul's like
Sure, I'd be sins like then bomber like and now maul's bomber like it's the bystander effect like
Uh, all right. Um, yeah
I'm off for now. I may show back up if I start feeling a little bit less right in the head. Okay. Thank you
Lasting as long as you did
fine
Um never heard those words before
Dustbull should you want to jump on to the one with uh begins with six hours?
Certainly. All right
Codex entry says six hours 38 minutes and 52 seconds into my 2001 of space odyssey analysis
And then we just randomly cut to these colorful seizure inducing hallways is how making these is dave just tripping on the drugs
The movie never says because there is no explanation
It just wants a nice pointless visual that now looks dated because stanley kubrick only cared about style over substance
Oh, uh, that's me if you guys don't get it
Um, it's a really great representation of how I would tackle 2001 of space odyssey
um
Joel
it's like I don't even know it's like yeah, there's nothing to draw from that sequence because
Um when you see something that doesn't necessarily make sense visually in a in a realistic manner
That has no concept of why it might do that
Maybe you can ask a question
But I mean the context of the movie would account for for many interpretations of what is happening in that sequence
This is much like
a lot of what people consider to be artsy movies being unexplainable objectively and it's like no as long as there's indications and
Interpretations that are based on references. You're fine. But obviously
It's more fun to make fun of me. So
Whatever, but that next time you're gonna make fun of somebody you might want to uh, take a page from jack's book and use some quotes
Yeah
Do it I was a little confused on what he was going with that until you brought it up that he was making funny
He's like, oh, okay. Now it makes a bit of sense here
To be fair stanley kubrick is one of those especially 2001 is one of those movies
So it's based off whether or not you appreciate cinematography or visuals, so
Some of these comments could be true to some people so
I was gonna say yeah, who knows if they could argue it, uh efficiently
Maybe that is the take but it's just like I'd have to see it presented and you see the movie again
But whatever like it's just fun to make fun. Um
You're you're up next smud boy. And this one's you might want to take it slowly because it's a bit tismy
This is actually rather ironic because this is the the same quote that I was replying to all day today
And I believe you also replied to it as well
But uh, yeah, this was an interesting person to talk to
I don't understand how this lazy anti-intellectual nonsense of
theming doesn't matter can somehow pretend like they
Have the rational logic high ground
Like have you ever been in any literature and media class past middle school?
Like how grammar rules and story structure are often thrown out the window in the service for conveying a beautiful idea
like it is art it is supposed to
give
you
feelings
And that picking the literal words of the text doesn't even scratch a molecule of the edge of all the meaning contained within
You're trying to go for like a valley girl sort of thing. I don't understand
And it's like it is immediately cut off by the fact that it's like your premise is broken. I think themes totally matter
Where are you coming from with this? It's like well the video said you didn't it's like oh
Well
The one that really irks me is the how
Grammar and rules and story structure are thrown out the window in the service for conveying a beautiful idea. Um
Who who did this who has ever done that and thought that was a good idea. Yeah
It's it's bizarre like a beautiful what is a beautiful idea at the expense of grammar
How how can you understand or see the beautiful idea?
Well, this is the thing right every movie submits to some form of logic
They all have to they all do we all know this is a thing that every fucking filmmaker has to do so
There's no point in trying to argue that don't look because progression you don't have a story without progression
So they do adhere to it to a degree
But it's like there's so many reasons why they'll just stop and it's like for example
Oh fuck that guy had two knives in the scene with ray. Let me just say I brush one of them out
Yeah, just do it. Fuck. Whatever people won't notice
So the next one is also malan understanding the difference between objective and subjective is the funniest part about him and his buddies
parading around youtube as some enlightened objective thinker
Uh mola goes on several minutes about how beauty cannot be objectively explained yet insist the quality of a movie can
um
Beauty is inherently subjective by its definition to be satisfied by something's beauty is like
If you want to try and achieve a standard for it like symmetricality would be one
So people are like why is someone so attractive?
It's like well, they're very symmetrical and the reverse is usually true. Why are they unattractive their face is
Unsymmetrical like things are falling off in different directions
Um, someone might be like their eyes are too close together or too far apart
Because it's like uh, you can try and give some form of standards, but beauty itself to say something is beautiful
It's pretty difficult to to say that could be objective. I don't it's like a feeling you're experiencing
But then the quality of a movie I keep making my standards available
But it's just like nah, it's just it's just can't do that because the movie's
feelings only question mark subjective only I don't
It says, um, of course, he doesn't even acknowledge this discrepancy
It's not a discrepancy and he doesn't explain exactly how pointing out logical consistency proves the quality of a movie objectively
It's literally just contradicting itself ruining its stakes and progression
Like I pretty much said that like four times now
I really want him to watch those three movies along with others like inland empire roar and killing of a sacred deer
His style of criticism barely works on hollywood blockbusters
Okay, and it completely falls flat against those that don't follow blockbuster format
I'm, not sure what they think that means
Uh, the guy is a joke of a critic and is completely blind to his flaws outside of getting things wrong about a movie
While having the nerve to accuse people of the same shit he's doing
Interesting touch
Yeah
that's
to say you don't
Look at hollywood blockbusters. I mean what that's the majority of what you've been looking at is the popular titles on your channels
Yeah, the idea is that um, I can talk about writing through things like ip's the people have already accepted
But they're only going to be ones that I care about personally as well
But there are things I want to talk about that
I don't think are in much of the public eye like I don't think the haunting of hill house has been watched by many people
Many people are not aware of it. So I kind of want to cover it to give it more exposure and talk about why I think
It's so well written
um
So, you know the time will come with these things that are less known than I want to cover
I just need more time because it takes a long time to make my stuff
um
but anyway
Next comment best bullshit you ready?
Yes
So this one's uh, this one's spicy here. So
Mahler is one of the most annoying people on youtube, especially in the comments of other people's better videos
I'm glad someone is finally taking a proper swing at him and his style of quote criticism
I'd hate to be someone like him his
contemporaries or one of his fans who consumes media like this without any thought or artistic purpose or meaning behind a text
Even in a blockbuster film as though people making films don't have thoughts or ideas or opinions
They want to express and are just shoving the characters from points to point point A to point B along the plot
No wonder they don't like anything if all movies were made this way
They would be they would be boring imagine not having the emotional self-awareness to analyze why you
Personally like or dislike something so you have to resort to
pedantic nitpicking to unpack media you dislike and somehow claim objectivity in analyzing art
Also, it's hilarious to see him fumble over his ideas that somehow the visuals in a visual medium don't matter this again
Great. I'm absolutely not saying you need a film degree to analyze film
In fact, i'm glad that the internet allows for more diverse perspectives on film
My advice to mauler would be to maybe pick up a book sometime
And now I recommend picking up some context sometime
Uh, yeah
So once it irritated once again, uh visuals do matter. I'd never never fucking say they do not matter in general
It's when i'm talking about writing that they're not relevant
It's strange that they they say that visuals matter, but they tell you to pick up a book like okay
that's
Logical that's the book might have pictures. How dare you?
Yeah
Uh, we actually covered the wise mon Mothma wearing a bull gown and why is admiral holder doing it so we could skip that one
Sure. So, uh next one ready smud boy
All right
If mauler said something negative about either the original star wars trilogy lord of the rings or terminator his channel would be would die
Right there and then should we should we stop there?
Right. So and you guys are welcome to to go for this too
Let's start with the star wars trilogy. Is there anything wrong with a new hope?
Um
I'd have to rewatch it to figure out the details but um, I need to come up with a singular
Negative thing about the movie in terms of writing so if we can just get one
um
We we talked we talked before on other streams about how it's
Really strange that there's just this squid creature inside the the trash compactor
And that it's mainly just there to generate a moment of thinking luke might have drowned, but then he hasn't then it's gone
a bit of a
Something that probably could have been a bit a bit more explained
And it's there simply to provide like a dramatic moment as if to sort of pad it out because there's nothing else to do
There's probably a criticism in there somewhere
Not that significant, but it's something
Um, maybe I mean that's
Um minor detail. No, that's the thing though, right? They all they said is I need to say something negative about it
Oh, it doesn't matter how major or minor it is and then I will literally destroy my channel. So next up empire strikes back
Uh, it's retarded that the a-wings I think I can't remember if they're a-wings. They're probably not a-wings
The ships in in hoth it's retarded that they don't
Go out of their hangers and then cycle all the way around to the back of the 80 80s instead of flying right at them
because 80 80s takes so long to turn
And uh if they did that would actually be beneficial to the the rebels
So their plan of attack is very inefficient compared to how good it could be that is true
I remember seeing how they blew one up. They just shot it as as after the fact they started spinning around them with the wire
Like yeah, okay
Yeah, that's another one. So that's two out of the three return of the jedi
There are so many things that don't make sense about return of the jedi in uh, the ot
I would literally just cite the entire plan at the beginning
Yeah, this is the first half
It's so much of it makes no sense at all. Um, I still love the movie by the way, but yeah lord of the rings
um
It's bad because I haven't seen it
The uh, I was speaking to wolf about what he considers to be flaws in lord of the rings one of the ones he said
So i'll just parrot it here and see what people think
um
The the elves turning up in the two towers is not in the books
Uh to the talm's deep. I mean and you can tell
By there's elements to it that are very clunky in in in the movies one being that the elves are basically
Erased from existence once that scene is over apparently every one of them died. You're just like, okay
to that
Our characters were expecting
The orcs to have arrived at that point and it's the elves implying that like the elves could easily have just
Crossed paths with the orcs at that point. So you're just like did they not did they see them?
That seems a bit awkward, but okay fine
Then there's um, how did the they know that rohan was in trouble and that they were at helms deep?
um, these are all things that wolf has said by the way, you'd have to uh
confirm
With him because I wouldn't be able to reference enough, but he said that that could be considered
A flaw in in at least the two towers. I don't know if we need to go through all the lord of rings films. Um
terminator
uh
What's a flaw in terminator one?
Oh jeez, why are they only sending one robot back? Why are they only sending one robot back easy?
Why does the robot have an accent? Why does you know all these things?
Why is it a standardized model instead? What as soon as you've released one?
Uh, the cover's blown
Arnold mashed several buttons on that payphone. How did he even get through to anyone?
The fact that they can transport human flesh, but not
Seems pretty contrived. So, um according to this commentary i've now killed my channel
Sorry folks. I've checked highs over
This is zero viewers and you guys just leave and discussed. So
Yeah, continue continue with the quote. We did it. We satisfied this guy's this guy's if and if then statement
All right, these kind of youtubers live in breath by validation gangs
They do or say anything that their audience doesn't like it usually implodes in their face. Really? Oh, I didn't know that
Look for example when an animation youtuber named jello apocalypse who mocked the toxicity of tumblr disguised
As inclusion of video begging his subscribers to vote democrat in the midterms
Or wendy the fine bros try to trademark reaction videos. Okay, that's a bit stretching it
validation gangs usually see youtubers with some degree of success or clout as either their leader or even a messiah because he she
Has influence and something. Oh, I guess I didn't extend that one. That's my bad. But um, yeah, I just
This was pretty off the rails interesting take
uh
People see me as a messiah or a leader. Okay, i'm gonna nail you to a cross now
Make sure you come back
It would be really awkward if you didn't so i'm i'm gonna read this one
Do I find it amusing?
Can't wait to see mola's 10 hour long response edit mola
I know that you're a slut for attention and I want you to know that nothing you have said is in any way insightful and meaningful
chrisitum
chrisitum
And that's an edit his comment, it's an edit yeah good point
Nothing you've said it's like
He wanted to take this moment because he figured i'd see the comment to really get to me
So he's like you don't say anything insightful meaningful. It's like nailed it
And i'm referring to your chrisitum. Fuck
You're an awful chrisit mauler
I don't appreciate you chrisitum
Sounds like it's just funny chrisitum just going in
I think part of that is chris chrisitum, but other than that I do like the fact that we are literally about 10 hours
Yeah, almost on the dot. I think we've almost made it. We might actually make it once we go through the super jets
God definitely. So the next one. Um
Wait, who was the last it was?
All right. So is this dust bullshit now or am I mixing the all?
I believe you're next mauler. I just read the 10 hours fonts. Yep. All right, so it's me
Uh mauler is no spark. He's the critic's stupid people even mauler. Stop. Stop. Stop. He's the critic stupid people
What is that he could be?
It
I was reading but like thank you for stopping me because like wow
Made me think about that and my brain blew off. I love comments like this. They make me smile. He's the critic stupid people
Mola, did you pick these out as like your favorite?
Uh, so this is a selection of main arguments that be made top comments and then ones that make me laugh
And some of them are hearted by jack himself too, so
They have his blessing
Uh, so mauler is no spark. He is the critic's stupid people
Even mauler doesn't know his null bull crap has indoctrinated his dumb masses
And now I saw a true fan here defending him poorly you
You only know about his shtick because mauler thinks he is the kanye west of critics
And quote becoming cool like you want to be but you can't be like him you are too dumb to be like him
You will fail him just as his fans do without knowing you will fail him. What does that mean?
Can we see darth city is performing this comment
He doesn't get it. What does that mean? He's the critic's stupid people
Jack star will be fully operational when you're free
So, uh next up we spot boy
Okay
That one clip of him getting upset about how the movie cuts away after luke asks, where is han?
Kind of shows you the type of critic he is
There is no need to vomit that information back at the audience and add nothing to the story
The edits save time and he gets upset over it
Oh, um, they're saying that watching luke grieve for han would be vomiting information and adding nothing to the story
Oh my god
What a take uh
Sure, man. Yeah, it would add deleted scenes still exist
The delete. Yeah, it's still there. It's still visible. Is it any good? It is good. I think it should have been the film
Have you guys seen it?
No, I haven't actually oh well, which film it's the last jedi
the last
Jedi
deleted clip ones
Oh the deleted clip. Yeah, I did see that. Oh you have seen that. Okay, you haven't seen it though. Um, I have not I have not
Okay. Well, it's literally 16 seconds. So all you need to do is literally just click this give us give us all 20 seconds chat
I'll even put it in the chat. Everyone check this out and tell me that this should not have been in the film
I'm gonna re-watch it
Oh
Wow
It's like really good
Mark mark handle's really good. It's really good. I know like
It's all those little subtle facial expressions. He's gonna go in there. Why would they why would they cut that?
Why would they save time?
That was beautiful. It's only 20 seconds
Of all the things to cut like what
Uh, so I guess i'm next uh
The dude shitting on lupita's character hitting a guy with a shoe is so funny to me because I just today watched a video
Where a guy who worked on the movie talks about the entire fight scene how some of the stuff was done and the symbolic
Significance of stuff like clothes the characters are wearing here hitting the dude with a shoe is supposed to symbolize weaponized femininity
Uh-huh
Themes boys there are less silly ways to to symbolize that
What do they think they mean the femininity and shoes are intrinsically connected
What was the spear too much like was it two uh long shafts of
Weaponized femininity to to a telling was the shoe
Proper way to do it. I don't you could use the same
Speers are awfully masculine. You could you could use the same argument to defend it if she literally
Choked a guy to death with her vagina
It's good because it symbolizes weaponized femininity
That means it's good
And since these are sentence ones i'll just get them uh done
So man, I remember when I critique things like mullah did glad I don't anymore. That's got 67
um
so
This this is something that's been used before just right used it and um
A few other people do they'll be like
Mother's basement said this to me. Uh, this line where they go. I remember when I used to think like you but then I grew up
And you're just sitting there like thanks dad. I don't
What do you want me to do with that?
But then I read a book
They think it's a valid point because they believe it right, but it's just like it doesn't matter if you believe it
It could mean that you've regressed or that I haven't yet progressed either of those could be true
Or you know, you've just changed without it being intrinsically bad or good sure
Uh, I hope cinema sense style criticism is bashed by enough people to die off at least a little
You might like my channel
That's very true. Check out
Yeah, check out my channel i'm curious by the way chat. Um
Since we've now been going for like in excess of 10 hours that anyone who's been watching literally since we started me
Oh boy, that's one that would
I asked that and immediately I see people spamming shoe milk and that's a better response than what I was expecting
Weaponized shoe milk
Um, I was gonna say by the way
It's not that we won't trust these people saying that they have
But what I will say is that a lot of people will likely say it whether or not they have because it'd just be like
Yeah, I don't know
Um, but don't worry. I believe you chat. I believe you this has been insane, but it's been fun. Um
So molar is an obnoxious long-winded pedant who's obsessed with quinton reviews plus. He's a reactionary chud
That's got 142
What what is this like?
People have said i'm obsessed with tlj obsessed with my critics obsessed with quinton reviews obsessed with like longness
Just like so anything that I do becomes the thing i'm obsessed with it's like cool
What's what's wrong with being obsessed with your critics? That means you're listening and you want to know what they mean
Oh, they would say i'm obsessed without listening
Okay, so much shud
Yeah, I can hear him saying that unfortunately rags wolf aren't here
But this one says rags wolf and molar just come across as egotistical pretentious pricks and we probably be like, yeah, that's fair
That's your perception
Can't really argue uh get ready for his 13-hour efap in response to this
We're nearly getting there double now and give us a bit more time
Anyway, glad that there's people pointing out how poor molar's content is
I wrote a response to this one in his recent videos
One uh with that being one of my main points
I plan on turning it into a video sometimes we get noticed far more than the handful of people who know about it now
And so this sort of gives me a small impression of what chase was talking about earlier
It's like oof. Are you doing this? Just try to give views. I don't know. Okay
I
Wish people's motivation was some form of like they actually wanted to address the points and talk about them
But hey, and I think this is the best comment in the entire selection. Shout out to eric taxon's cat who has excellent comedic timing
Hey, finally something we can agree on. Yeah, I think that was a fair comment. I agree
It's got lots of upvotes. You know this we've found a place where both both fan bases can agree
Yes, that's that's it. We did it
Uh, the rest now will be reading out super chats. And of course, um, i'm gonna go right from the beginning which
Doesn't take a while
It's been like 10 hours. Um
Jesus christ, i'm actually having to like load pages here. So yeah, it starts with january 20
I'm gonna have to scroll on efap 22 until it turns into 21. There we go. Okay
Watch how you scroll up and it's like yesterday like oh shit. It literally is passed over. I started 8 8 p.m
And it's 6 a.m. Now
So well we just started after yeah and jade's been here a little time too, so, you know
I've taken breaks to literally just lie down
Cover so we're gonna try and read these as fast as we can and address the ones as best we can
Unfortunately wolf and rags are not here. So they can't answer the questions that are addressed to them and i'm sorry about that
I really am it's just this is sort of the structure we try and do this with
That works in his most efficient. So
Uh, you couldn't wait two hours for me to be off work. I'm sorry jake at wolf
I showed my friend lord the rings the first time and his reaction after return was how could they do my boy Frodo like that?
also, mole, did you ever check out high top reviews home home coming vid kisses I have not and um
I actually kind of wonder what wolf would say about the whole how could they do my boy Frodo like that?
I'm, not sure. Do you mean that he dies?
I feel bad because this person made this comment 10 hours ago, but
Respond to them. I don't know
Do you think they're actually still here?
Uh jay, let it be known your crimes against cinnamon toast are on public record. We will see you in court
Oh fuck
Um as a fat i'm offended we did read that one. Why did you do this? I just wanted to watch star wars
Um any thoughts on h bomber guy's transgender live stream
All I know is he did a live stream on donkey kong to raise
Uh money for charity, I believe so good for him. Yeah, that's that's fine with me in concept. I don't know anything else about it
um
I think like he got a couple of uh
Celebs there too. So I guess that was pretty exciting. But uh, yeah, I also like the shots he took in his announcement
Oh, yeah, that was funny was it you I imagine you've seen father turd right now
Yes
But I haven't seen it in ages
I generally just like for me. It's like a christmas tradition that uh, like, you know, generally when I am home with my family
At some point father ted
It's not the tradition is really as much just an inevitability because we all
The writer is a big big country boy
Okay, who spends basically his entire time now
on twitter just
Raving about how much he doesn't like that people are trans and i'm like, that's not very nice
Or if he thinks you're not very nice jay
Well, he probably does
All right, then, um, don't quote me on this from bilbo baggins which
That you know wonderful. Uh jack saint video t too long didn't watch subjectivity man. Good objectivity man bad
Gotta put long man bad in there. Uh
What lewis said about the parkland kids was perfect
They were victims and suddenly they are paraded around like they're experts in gun violence. What the fuck they're being used as pawns to pull emotional strings. How
Uh sure that you knew everything you were at
Were you sorry how sure that you knew everything?
Were you at 17?
Um, yeah, I haven't heard enough to comment on what that scenario is
But I think that might have been a reaction to what chase said about it
Um being that it's better to have the information on the topic before you talk about it sort of thing, which I guess I just said
so
They were the um
The stream labs one. So i'm back on the actual uh
Super chest now. So
Jared is jello, right? He's sleeping in a fish tank. I don't know if that's a part of the law. I'd have to check it
I saw aquaman. I know he eats a yo-yo
Yeah, that's true. Um
I saw aquaman
This weekend wolf garbage and ridden with plot holes as expected. I love my ass off at the submarine scene at the beginning though
Well, you'll enjoy the coming video from wolf
Sharks are mostly cartilage with only bones being the jaws teeth and spine and look how well they swim
Oh, that's still addressing the initial comments about a jelly man flying through space
Or it's the sky. This is still far back. Um
as in long
And arguably apparently in deep movie critics. What are your thoughts on the three flavors cornetto trilogy? I love all three of those films. Um
And I think they're really well written
uh one being a horror comedy one being like a drama comedy and then the third being a
Thriller comedy, I suppose
They're all they're interesting as their approach and I I just think they're awesome films in a lot of ways
Thanks for getting me on the witcher books wolf. I'm sure you would say he's glad to
Get anyone to do that. Um, I didn't know until recently the rags was friends with the quartering and by extension review tech usa
Quite possibly. Yes. I'm not sure but anyway guys here's some money to buy some rhino cream rhino cream
Yeah, that's it. Sheave baggage. It's creepy. She's good old creepy. She's thank god. You're back. Missed you we well
This should tide people over for a while. We're probably not gonna do an efap now until like
next week
Late next week. I don't even know how I want to be seeing a former critic of maula joining the efap on a video
Critiquing maula. Good to see you spino rhino milkman
Ah, that's I can i'm sorry. Can I just hear that again? I need I need to be
Reminded of those brilliant words. Good to see you spider slash rhino slash milkman
Thank you, I
I'm happy i'm impressed. Honestly that I managed to go the entire like
Almost 11 hours now of this stream without seeing something
Uh questionable enough to become its own meme again
He's we we it's it's been efficient somehow. I'm not even
Sort of certain of how jj's big book flight was that?
I'm assuming that was on twitter. Um jack is still on twitter taking snipes at the stream
That's um, and wonderful for him
He said 30 like odd minutes ago
He said, uh lola checked back after finishing the movie. They're still whining that I don't want to debate
So I muted my mic for a while. I went back to see what it was
You're actually talking about at that point of the stream and it wasn't that
So he's essentially just gone
Surprisingly, he said something
You're cutting out
How much of that did you understand uh, the part we missed was you said well
I think what you said is he's claiming x in the part of the video he would be in is why he's taking
He's saying something is happening when it's not happening, which is a huge shock
He's saying that we're still uh, I think it would have been you at that point. I think that's when I was having a nap
uh, he was saying that you were
Uh still whining about him not one
Bait when that's just not really what you were talking about. Yeah. No, I mean
What have we said on that basically just that? Um
We're not letting rags get booted
And that was a while back those when rags was here. Um
I don't you know, I I don't have a huge desire to bait jack
To debate jack. Sorry, uh, it's the video is very uh
Disingeniously made I don't know like it's it's complicated. Um
Essentially if you were to debate him at this point and that would be
Doing something for him. You don't have that at all. There's no obligation there
Yeah, and I think a lot of people would like to see it
So it just depends on how he is in ps but like with the amount like the sheer amount of sniping he's doing
I'm just like I don't know man, like I don't believe you're doing this because you want to figure things out
Again, he's he's his arguments could be applied straight back to him. Just oh my god. They're still whining
He says as he continues to whine
Well speaking speaking of that uh jenna just said i'm surprised there's no new memes says jj binks
That's not something stupid I said to be fair that's fair enough how did that start
Did I just see someone say that in the chat?
Uh, I think someone said jays like jawjaw binks in that at first. Oh, yeah
Something like annoying but it makes sense for him to be here. I don't know like that
And then someone said jj binks he was done
Um, that wasn't good later
Aren't all blaster weapons miniaturized death star tech aren't all people miniaturized jared beings?
That is definitively true long critique is not deep makes a 50 plus critique counted f a mauler
I mean, that's the thing. He's already counted me before I even made my response. He's playing 5d chess
I saw this train wreck and i'm working on my own response video to it
The disingenuous nature of it is infuriating. Have fun tearing this apart
Well, if you are still making the video feel free to use the references that I put in here
Yeah, I gave up. I
I don't blame you
Uh mauler gay people come out faster than your vids to here's tfa part two question mark
So my what i've said is the expected release date for tfa part two will be the end of february
I still haven't finished the video, but it's
another hulking task the editing is taking ages on it and
Obviously i've been not solely doing it
There's this efap prep and there's this other appearances we did like the the monkey one whatever else
But I am working on it and I keep updating the patreon to give people um
A source on what's what's being covered in it?
But yeah end of february is what i'm hoping for and the reason for that is that i'm doing a lot of different um
things for the channel
in prep for april
It's it's it's at this point
I need to make sure those videos are good because of how much everybody keeps saying they're looking forward to the april fools video
It's like oh shit. This is better actually make a good april fools video
Oh, um, what if the april fools day joke is that you literally don't
They would be fooled
Well, i'm assuming you said that if what if I didn't release a video, right?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm still cutting out like fuck. It's it's weird. It cuts you out on seriously important words
Like if it only cut you out on a different word, i'd probably be fine with the sentence. But yeah, um
But I got what you said though. It's okay. And yes, that would that would subvert their expectations
Um maulers calls playing as harry stewart from dead lead premonition. I don't know who that is. Oh my
I do
Uh bezos is listening j
I'm, sorry
Bezos is listening
Oh, it's that hang on. I will recognize them by their peripheral picture. That's that's how I remember people
Is I think I know who you are, but I remember pictures not names. Sorry
If you're the person who speaks to me on twitter all the time, then I know it's you
Okay
Uh, so patrick said i'm new be gentle ever seen full metal jacket. Uh, yes, I like it a lot
All right, then skull on wheels man long calling it now. Oh, wow that person called it early. Well then nick
Jay is right. The only way to provide truly objective film critique is to have never seen the film at all. That's
That would be truly objective because you wouldn't have any emotional stake in it if you've never seen it, right?
That is true. That is true
Rags isn't just a guest. No, he's just a guest
Completely, he's only been on like one or two efas. So he doesn't look he's gone now. So
um
Rags is required by law to show up at least once for every efab mauler and the gang got some kind of dirt on him
And they're using it to blackmail him
Catching an efab live will be able to stay for the full eight hour stream eight hours
is
What an underestimation, but i'll listen to your work tomorrow. Anyway guys rub one out for Jared
Is it gay that if you boat a man, but I imagine it's a woman rags. Tell me the secrets of the big gay
I'd we'd have to get his opinion on that. Um, I'm afraid I can't speak for him
Watching on delay, but woof. I like your book. Can't wait for the third read when I'll never be bored mauler
Tfa part two when rag fallout video was great and j happy efab and you put rhino milk
Yay, thank you. I I enjoy rhino milk. Um people i've seen people think that I would get tired of it
Um, I enjoy it more every time I see it. That's not even me being facetious. I genuinely still enjoy that mean
I'm surprised it hasn't died yet. It's going strong and it keeps getting revived by new milk sources
Today we had shoe milk. That's that's probably the peak of milk in the stream shoe milk
Um, I think last stream we had earth milk and xenomorph milk
It's not a real stream until rags is intoxicated well, I don't think we got there but we did in spirit
Holy crap, that was the beginning
Um, I know mauler i'm writing if you go by the scroll i'm doing we are now a fifth of the way through according to this
But I don't necessarily trust it. Um, i'm writing a book and would genuinely be interested in paying you to read it and critique the plot
Writing a story would you be interested in if so, how could I contact you?
I generally say no to those requests and it's just a general rule. I try to keep to make sure I remain fair but um
But like I really appreciate that you would think that I would be good to to do that for your work
So, um, i'd be happy to for no money. That's fine
There you go
Try to get smud boy on twitter slash his channel and he'd happily give it a read if that would be something you'd be interested in
um
Uh rag hoota beer on stream depending tlj is like defending satan
Surprise ilif have nice and it's eric taksin. Oh sweet looks like revenge of the nudes is getting taken down in this one
Uh, I genuinely think it's easier to defend satan than tlj. That's
That's just because I think satan's not that
Yeah, satan's a fallen angel. She's got a bit of a character arc, you know, it's like he's good once he was rebelling against the
tyrannical guy who was like everyone must worship me and do everything I say
Satan was like can we like not I think he's all right
Yeah, I think I think you made a really strong defense. I i'm actually pro satan at this point
Oh, the bible has too many plotholes
So true
The only people who are going to be offended by you saying that are fanatical christians and I I doubt you have many
Who would want to like i'm sure they'd be able to take that joke even if they were fanatical christians, right?
If the whole stream has been about how people are taking jokes too seriously with the holy insult thing
But maybe um satan has better themes
Do you think we all deserve a framed picture of mauler wink wink? Oh that is far back in this stream
Are you guys excited for heat blue f14 tomcat in dcs world? I have no fucking clue. What the hell that's referencing
That was just a lot of words in an order to me. I'm gonna say yes. I am excited for that
Uh rhino milk spent last week watching all efaps. My body is ready. Well, you've got another like weeks with already
um
Also wolf, please I need your vids like quinton needs soy. It's on the way
Have you guys ever heard of the occusus?
Soy milk is good for you
I I I mean I just I you know what fact
Jay's admitting that he drinks only soy milk guys. I literally do only drink soy milk rather than cow milk
Um, and that's not a joke
So that's why I believe all the things I believe
Uh, that explains why you don't watch movies
Yeah
Uh, have you guys ever heard of the occuser series?
They just ported most of them to pc recently occuser zero alone. It's one of the best games i've ever played
I've not played. That's amazing
I don't know if any of you guys want to talk a bit more about it because I I got no reference
It's pretty wild. It's fun exciting. It's silly. It's over the top
Oh
Well, yeah, very great. Uh, I feared there wouldn't be a real efap even though there was a
Gfap thanks for the mountain of entertainment. You mad lads. Oh, I guess if the gaming ones don't quite count then we've got this one
Don't you know doom's brutality is bad. It's a power fantasy, but mall combat is okay because it gives you a feeling of pride and accomplishment
Yes, lindsey alice crowdfunded hundreds of dollars for a forum for her shez apocalypse website that never materialized to give you an idea
I don't know anything about that specifically. Um, but
You just citing some of her video essays are relatively strong and I've liked some of her video essays
Some of them are insane though. Like it's it's complicated
um
Depends on the references is probably what I would say a bit late to the show but level your individual channels and content
And fap on good series also started or in the blind forest last night and good lord. What an amazing opening
I do love that game and it's one of wolf's favorite games of all time. So
I just want to make it clear to everyone putting satan milk in the chat that I pre
I think that's a fine addition to the milk collection
It just doesn't end because it makes you think like what would satan milk feel like there's a finite number of emojis
They can use for this eventually they will get there
And they'll just they'll stay clever. They'll keep it up
Eventually, it's just going to be like the different kinds of people milk
So it's going to be like white woman milk white woman with brown hair milk black and milk
That that's my prediction for efap beautiful mola's videos are thick. Uh, did I miss anything and they posted rhino spider
milk
Sign of a woman you get to look at shades
What is the top hat spidey face? There's a lot of a lot of memes in there forget aid skrillex. That's aids ed sheeran
Enough the reason why criticism maybe long is due to the expansion of points
If I would say devil may cry encourages player expression, we would then need to explain why which can take a lot of time
But that is honestly a fundamental take on why things can take longer than some things
It's how much you want to explain and how much you want to qualify
But you can keep going forever typically speaking because every single word could be defined and explained
And it's all arguably relative, but it's just like the standard you'd want to keep is just
Make sure they understand the terms you're using
And then you use logical steps to use the things you've defined to reach conclusions
Inclusions that are defined too. I'm slowly starting to slur because
My brain clock is running out
You guys seeing the chat at the moment. It's devolved so far. It's just pictures of milk is
My favorite one is
Now they've got me picturing that satan has utters god damn it. Yeah, is that bride milk?
My favorite one is milk milk
milk
That's when it's become a full circle meme
Um, I hate taxing so much. I hope he goes to mcdonald's and orders a big mac with no pickles
But then still puts pickles on it
Okay
Damn, that's savage right there. I like my youtube reviews like my wiener's long and aimless
I was watching rags order videos before this stream. So here's five dollars fair enough
Thank you very much. Uh, we found the british tommy. Why so guys I encourage length maula baguins
This is true
Did someone draw maula as mon mawthra?
What is her actual name now? It's made me forget it. I want to say mon mawthma. It is mon mawthma, right?
He said mon mawthra
That's that's quite an artistic thing to draw as well
Mothra crossed with mon mawthra
Mon mawthra, but it's also maula maula's face. Mothra's fucking body but with a style of bard bath
It's a giant dress
Uh
You're a lot you're like a less gross plinket maula
Why thank you the age-old quote a picture is worth a thousand words
And then he complains that you may go over in a word count and beyond if it can't be worth more
Wait, you're pointing out how?
Uh, uh jack is inconsistent. That's ridiculous. As long as jared genesis support you we too
Yes, wait, what the fuck did he just say? No, i'm not sure what that's referencing specifically
I'm only here to spend my dad's money. Take that dad
How much money was that that was
Five dollars. So wow, that's gonna be furious
How dare eric try and emulate weird al game theories eric tax on jared genesis is autistic cousin
That is offensive and now this is a bullying stream. Thanks to that super chat
Yep, so well done person
Gosh, uh, draw me jack like you're transsexual girls
beautiful
Uh, oh god pedo jesus has retained see this is what I mean. It's like the kind of thing you read and you just go
You're automatically a monster if you laughed
Uh, keep making great content guys been interesting listening during my film school work with dealing with all the no objectivity in film and my subjectivity
I'm glad we can provide an outlet at least for the people who feel like there's not enough of it. I suppose
Citation needed literally all of your critics points nearly all of the time. I mean
I mean
Jay make a video that's harsh on me, but it's fair just so that we can finally say that one exists. Okay
Sure
Okay, fine. I'll do it
Is it possible that eric managed to be worse than before?
He generally seems to think he's right and we'll do anything to slander people who disagree with him. I think he was better
I think he's better here than the wolf video the wolf video. He's like
Running away with an idea that came from nowhere while here
He's he's like so close to getting to what I actually believe in and projects. He just misses a few bits
While jack is just in the universe
Your objective, but not really it's like what
It's like oh
But why though wait eric wait, it's like no he's gone
So, please tell me you're gonna bring up the sniper quinton his comments in the video are so full of it a question
What reality is from? Um, so I put out a tweet. It's on my profile
I'm, not sure how late it is
But it's one with the
Comment from a quote from quinton and he basically says that rags is obsessed with him
And that quinton didn't really do anything other than address an argument in a different like scene that was still valid
It's just demonstrably wrong. It's not what quinton did and um
To finish the quote was saying rags is pretty much obsessed with him and quinton says that if rags continues. He's probably gonna snap
Like
Quinton believes rags constantly thinks about him
Quinton that's not what's happening. I'm sorry
We got it
We got invited to come on state of the youtube and we were like do you want to do you want us to speak about like?
What happened with quinton and you know address the quinton podcast they had previously with him when we did and that was that
And so it's like how you're obsessed. It's like no, no. No, it was a topic, but okay
Um, but yeah
Good old quinton, you know
I've been trying to write stories with a diverse cast
Uh least I attempt to focus on motives interest and even try to make a race and gender matter
It is an insult to me when people hire based on race and gender alone
I think it should be insulting. It's uh, it's counter to the
To the point of normalization you're basically saying to them that because they're gay they are special
It's like that should be normal not special
We don't really care about like, you know what you have to bring to the table. Are you are you gay?
Are you black? That's really all we care about. Mm-hmm. It's like yeah, that's that that would be tremendously insulting
No, stop thinking mullah made a video that was big number long
It's okay
Here take my money. Someone in the chat
Someone in the chat is saying jay. What have you done like really dramatically and i'm really curious. What have I done?
It must be the milk. Um
Please
elaborate
There's loads of milk in chat. Do they blame you for this?
The milk has not stopped
Look at that crud that they just created this looks I think a spider with the with the crystal ball
This says jay. I could read the future
That was one of my favorites
That is a strong set of emotion. It was to try and depict a spider the milk must flow
Man, isn't there a dune remake coming out soon?
I think so. Yeah
We shall see
Why is wolf generic sporting that generic face as an avatar?
I know the wolf character had been retired and that makes me sad but the wolf medallion worked
It's a reference to tonal bloke go to efap 21 to understand the context
No, you've yeah efap 21 because efap gaming is a different thing
Ribley was a character and became an icon ray on the other hand was designed to be an icon
But wasn't given the character to back it up agreed
You know what? Here's my money
Fuck jack and eric and everyone like them instead of coming on and actually talking like rational humans
They'll snipe and lie on the side or on twitter. Fuck them. I mean they seem to
There's there's there's a weird thing there. Like it seems like they would have come on if it's just me and wolf
So to say that they're not willing at all wouldn't be quite accurate. But I mean they did
I don't know what their dealio is with rags
Uh, I would say that there's nothing wrong with wanting not wanting to debate something like that. Yeah, that's
But I think the way they're doing it is the problem
Well, uh, they've taken an action and I have committed to the opposite reaction as in countering their things
So now we're completed. So now it's up to them if they want to debate me on my points
Or if I want to debate them on their points further. I'm not that interested just because of
Really exploring this and it's it's weird when I explored this personally to get the references
I wasn't as concerned outside of like I said, I hated that ending
But watching the rest of it and establishing where they've taken stuff out of context and seeing people react and
And how people feel about it. It's like yeah, this is way worse than I felt about it
Just because I was just like oh he's mistaken. Just like come on
um
And so yeah
I feel a little bit worse about it now than I did before and so it's just
Just complicated about what I even want to do going forward
Because you know everyone always accuses me of being like the guy who demands debates and in this scenario
I'm like, I don't really care to debate
And if they're telling me well only come on if you do these things i'm like, I don't know that I care to actually
Accommodate you I would say drop both pretenses of criteria for doing a debate have a third party and do that
If they if you really want to do it
It's just a little weird
It's like that it's not like they have like you have requested to have more people on your team during this debate
It's like the show has always been you three, you know, unless they can't make it
But so it's like why are you making them change their format to accommodate you?
Well, that's what I mean, like it should not be one way or the other it should be a third party. Who's the moderator?
and
Whoever they want and wherever you want go ahead and do it if that's what's the big issue
And talk about it out. They don't worry about who are you know reading or watching these movies or whatever not just
Sit down and talk
If you really think your points are that strong, it's like why would it matter how many are there exactly?
I went to watch the video first so I could form my own opinion, but 13 minutes in and they've been so dishonest
I dropped out. Let's have a laugh
I i'd like to think that the faps are entertaining
As well as uh breaking down these insane videos a bit off topic from the current video
Sorry, go ahead
If you can make it through that is that's true
People wouldn't fucking spend 10 hours watching them. That's true. No, they're all wrong people remember
They're all wrong
They're all long man bad
a bit off topic from the current video, but any
Are any of you more excited for the king of the monsters than endgame probably not but still curious
Yeah, not for me personally, but i'm still interested in king of the monsters
Anyone else want to do a take no idea. Oh, so king of monsters is the godzilla movie that's coming out
The only reason I like that is how excited i've seen other people about get about it
Which would make me assume that there is something to be excited. I thought the trailer was neat
Um, I just care more about endgame obviously
uh
But i'm interested in seeing the new godzilla. Yes. Yes, I am
um
What's wrong with his face hashtag save the cat. Here's some dollar for rhino milk always enjoyed all y'alls long videos
You are the epitome
Wait, that's a reference to another podcast of objective content
I'm, not sure what that reference is i'm afraid but fair enough. Is that uh
the right opinion
No, it couldn't be I don't think he does a podcast does he
Oh, no, i'm not sure about that
Uh the odd pacing subverts your expectations. So it's good. If anything they're using rags as an excuse not to come on
Uh, I don't know that for sure. But I mean I just like we've already said what we feel on that one
It's literally your podcast if anything, it should be by your rules. Not theirs
You're the three hosts and that's it. They can't ask to can't they ask to bring on a third?
Yeah, if they want to that'd be fine
Um the biggest plot hole in the whole
Current harry potter movies is that the american wizards have not found a way to combine magic and guns yet again the english
underestimate us
Oh, the american wizards wouldn't have made
Guns and magic a combo I get it
I mean be interesting to see how that would be possible to wolf amola
Eric taxon is like your guys's version of manatee individual needs some fan art of photoshop of man attacks and
Thing is I I wouldn't want to paint him too much of the villainous character in this one because like I said
It's much more jack than it is eric
Yeah
Now the next defab gaming should be y'all playing one of the old
Ea nascar games be really funny to see you guys crash as you try to get control
There's lots of potential for refab gaming. I'm not sure what we're gonna do with it
But um, it seemed like people really enjoyed it. So we'll definitely try and think of what other potentials we have
A haiku say sorry. Um, I want to
It's now what ten to seven in our at least in our time zone
Um started at eight
There are going to be people who were watching us yesterday
Uh fell asleep and have woken up now and have noticed but was still fucking going
Well people have said like am I going to do a 24 hour efap for uh, the hundredth episode
I was like fuck we might do it before the hundred
Oops, oh looks like someone in chat said they actually did that
If you keep rotating the part of the the past the cast
Uh, it wouldn't be that hard. I well, it would be hard, but it would be manageable. I think yeah
I think it's possible and I would happily try and make the full 24
I mean I have to because i'm streaming it and be pretty awkward if it just gave up
Um, you know, I I wonder if you literally just used like basically everyone who is willing to come on
As part of it how long you could make a stream go on for with people like dropping in and out
I think it'd be possible and I think we might try and do it for the hundredth episode. It'd be cool
That'd be pretty sweet. And we're indefinitely fab
Yeah, we'll have to like keep find the whole selection of videos to respond to we'd have to throw it down with thrust in there
It'll probably be like a cavalcade of the classics. We'd have one from everybody we've covered previously. That's short or something
Although our breaks allowed
Absolutely, it would be a it would probably be seven and a half hours half hour break seven half hours half hour break
Just because we have to split the streams up anyway
Sleepers for the week
Would that count as a 24 hour stream at that point? I don't know too complicated
But yes fair enough haiku objectivity better than cold rhino milk running down wolf's chin
oh
Can someone explain to me what exactly eric taxon is um
He's a human being who has an issue with me and how I address media
That would be the explanation. I think what kind of role do you hope captain marvel will won't play an end game?
I
Depends on what her movie's about. I do not want her to be the sole reason everything is
Okay, an end game that'll ruin it for me
I don't particularly like the idea of her saving iron man, but I think that's probably going to happen at the beginning
I really want him to build his way out of that situation as a
Big circle around from how he starts it would be awesome
But I don't think they're going to do that. I think she'll save him
And if she ends up beating thanos
Oh, it's going to be tough to watch compared to seeing the original avengers beat him, you know
Um, so that's what if she's done
Well, it could be good like you could you could still have that be the plot and find out actually it was executed fine
Well, if someone said what about both what if the avengers working with after marvel i'd be like, oh, yeah
Yeah, that could work that could work
I mean she's clearly going to help in the fight. She's going to be an important part of it no matter what
I mean, yeah, she's like super op. She's like the most op person who's on the hero's side, right? She's more upbeat than thor
That's what I heard
Yeah, I mean that seems to be the impression we're getting from like the trailers and stuff
So yeah
We'll have to see with that one greetings gentlemen efap has been very helpful to me while I work at the shop where we cut
Quartz glass parts for silicon chip etching machines always provide me at least half 12-hour shift of works worth of relaxing content
That is awesome
That's really cool
Yeah, i'm glad where you can entertain you honestly
Uh j, have you watched return of revenge of the sith? If not, you live in a sin, son
I've seen all the star wars films. Don't worry. It's okay
Except the holiday special. Oh
I subbed eric after his paul joseph watson video. I also saw his music and I like uh supporting new creators after this
i'm done lying is my limit
Um, I I know rags and wolf would encourage people to not uh be subscribed
I'm, not sure where I stand on the whole thing because i'm subscribed to plenty of people i'm subscribed to quinton like, uh
I like to keep up to date with
What the arguments have been presented on what I consider to be the opposite end of the aisle
and um
Yeah, I know right. Uh
I'm subscribed to a lot of people I regularly disagree with so it's just and if you like you have a principle of you'll never
Support a creative and by that it means watching their content. If you consider them a liar, then that is absolutely. Um
You know that I wouldn't
Knock anybody for that perspective. I think that's fair
I enjoy it as well
So I genuinely don't think he's lying. I think I don't think he's lying. I see it. I think he's just wrong
I yeah, I think he's just misunderstood what I think or at least he thinks that I don't understand what I think and he's trying
To explain it to me while jack is a whole different story
I mean, I believed everything I said in my um
Black Panther video it's it's it's not hard to be wrong
I mean i'm i'm wrong plenty of times
Sorry, it's weird
Um, I enjoy your work. Keep it up jack
You made something so shitty that 12 hours required to expose its flaws
We we've had a lot of breaks and a lot of random discussions. Um, but it will it will be said
That we spent 12 hours talking about a 50-minute video and that is embarrassing. We should be ashamed of ourselves
Literally half the original cast including the context that they kept leaving out
I know it took a while to show all of it and then to
Reshow what they take on it was I don't care if it takes long. I just don't care
Literally half the original cast at this point has um, essentially just dropped off. Mm-hmm
I'm surprised me. MJ is still here. Like it does surprise me
The stream has a 50 survival rate. Also, we are halfway through super chest now
So well, we're actually getting your page. What's the update when?
Also, I scrolled all the way down loaded them all the way down until the oldest one
So now i'm scrolling up to them
So any of them that have come since I spoke about them, they'll all be ones I'll have to refresh for
So it's only uh, yeah, so i'd say we're safely halfway through from what I can see
Uh aliens, clonal marines is greater than soma great themes. I agree. I feel that nitpicks
I feel that nitpicks can show clear evidence that someone has been delving deep into the content and notices minor things
They wouldn't have if they hadn't been so thorough in their work
The conversation on nitpicks is really interesting
Uh, and I think that it's just casually used to throw a critic off. They're just like no you've nitpicked you're out and it's like
And the interesting thing rags highlighted was that
He considers the hyperdrive thing in tlj to be one of the most like damning law-breaking film ruining things and there are people out there
It happened on the drunken peasants podcast when we brought up
Those things to a lot of people in the audience were like that's a nitpick. It's like ooh
Wow, yeah, you know, it's like what do you consider to be things that aren't nitpicks?
confused
Uh, hey guys, if you're looking for some humor for late night look up terence pop dude is hilarious ps
I love you guys fair enough
Rags watched just fallout 76 video 50 vids
I've seen is very impressed mas canada smelt of spin-off film before solos poor numbers. I'm sure rags would appreciate that. Thank you
G i'm sure there's a good meme in mauler abridged
Mauler episode 2 now it's on the way
This vids comment section reminds me of tro so much hate even though he's just trash talking you
I keep seeing but my themes all over the place
It's a great meme for this channel, but my themes but a lot of people take it as we really don't care about themes
It's like it's not that
Themes are used as a defense for a movie this bad
Like all the time. It's like what about the themes don't make sense. Yeah, but these themes it's like oh
Started streaming three hours ago only 13 minutes into the video. I love this podcast so much
There you go
We're only three hours into the super chats apparently
But like I said, the it's it's we're definitely halfway. So I think they they evened out a bit
Um, well, how much longer will you make us wait for your next episode seven video?
It better better be at least five hours long or i'm not clicking the fucking notification bell. Damn it
Okay
I'm afraid it'll be two hours 20 minutes from how it looks right now, but it's on the way
Jesus sin sins. Okay, fine. So what is your favorite movie then? What is your favorite movie jay?
Fuck don't make me choose that there are a lot of movies I like for a long time. It was district nine just because
entirely subjective reasons that was a movie that I
uh, essentially
Completely fell into the stakes of it. I
genuinely didn't know how it was going to win really really what the
Essentially the protagonists to win but I fully believed that the film might not go that way
And it is one of the best experiences i've had watching a film
well, that's
There are a lot of films I like though and that is not I wouldn't say that's definitively my favorite
Uh by any means really what's your favorite scene in that film too many to choose from?
um
I don't know. Uh, I like the ending a lot
Fair enough. Um
Titus said this can double as a counter to eric's criticism of your editing with your tfa critique
You stepped up your game in a way that matched the exponential growth of your channel every bit of the months of effort
You poured into it showed bravo. So thank you very much. It's very kind of you
Um, he probably gets this a lot, but jack looks like a ginger skrillex. There's a couple people have said that
Yeah, um as a brown eyed ginger, i'm, sorry if you'd have to suffer through this pure blood disgrace
Okay
I ain't the sharpest tool in the shed
This poor little tards don't like long videos probably because they don't have the attention span to enjoy anything longer than a two minute
Gillette information
Topical the candlelight people might even be subcontracting maintenance work on basis
So finn's rampaging between insurance and subcontracting may have made a lot of money for them
That's why it gets funnier and funnier the more you think about it
Video, please
So this is like a donation to keep playing the video. It's like
We eventually did I think uh, this is for sin sins
If any of the efap cast could satisfy your rhino milking fantasy and yes full players required
How would you go about having your needs met? Don't lie to me?
Um, hang on there are like several is to that question so
Uh, clearly i'm milking rhino
With hang on am I milking a rhino with one of the cast or is this like they are dressing as a rhino me he just said
Satisfy your rhino milking fantasy. I don't know how to interpret that
Is this a follow-up to the time when you were asked to milk one for sustenance and the other for fun?
I remember that question too. Yeah
I wonder if that's a follow-up. I'm not sure
I genuinely couldn't answer that I I would happily
You know what whoever can sense?
They that's my wholesome answer
I've seen all three mummy films. Yes out of boy j
That's a super chat
Uh, eric taxon more like eric taxing my sanity. Oh
Oh, got him. Then you go
Eric stewart has posted this three super chats of ocean man lyrics the spud bob song
Beautiful
Absolutely agree with you wolf words can only hurt you if you let them being able to handle mean words as a part of life
Take it on the chin and grow up jack you wet cowardly dollop of monkeys. Wow, that's just
Interesting one beautiful. But yeah
um
The whole it only hurts you if you let them like it's just you just
You know gonna get anywhere on the internet if insults where you draw the line on someone's character
It's like the second you do that you're out. It's like oh
Careful you better delete your twitter history because there's probably something in this one could use if that's your principle
I hope in your tpm critique you'll talk for at least an hour about how why jar jar is actually a good character in his
Existence is justified by the story
I don't know if I go as far as saying he's a good character, but he's not an inconsistent character
Um really annoying I suppose it's kind of silly they make him a senator or at least he has he has the power to
Suggest that palpatine gets emergency powers
I'd have to really watch the film again to sort of figure that out
But it's strange that he's in that position. I always felt because he's a dumb ass, but
Yeah, I'd really love it if the sf debris was
Invited on to efap your unbridled praise reprise reminded me of sf debris video on the jul u episode
Divided we fall does that for jail you here couldn't link?
Uh, there's a lot of people we want to get a guesting on here. I've not heard of sf debris or it's vaguely familiar
But um, oh it's very good
Well, I mean if he was interested sure
It's like we literally okay. Okay with any guests coming on
obviously
The whole debate things is another section. It's very complicated. But um, yeah, we like guest here
The easiest question is to is to ask who we wouldn't have on here
Rags your mom gay and that comes from creamy sheave palpatine
the best name ever
uh
Jack you don't get to complain about maula using the wrong clips when you don't provide them not to mention you maliciously take him out of context
Agreed a maula and wolf. I love you fallout 76 video. Here's oh, yeah, we we did read that one out
From your boy creamy sheath. I'm sick of jack and eric. Let's watch maula's videos
Maybe instead of sniping on twitter jack should have put the evidence to back up his claims in the video
Yeah, that would have been preferable
Yes, of course i'm watching from the shower peak future
I'm not sure what that means. How can you do that? How how have you got a device in the shower?
Teach me your secrets. They say they have a spider in the shower
Uh, there are actually some I remember going to a hotel once there was a tv in the mirror
So maybe that's how was that in japan? I've heard that's a thing in japan. Yeah
Maybe I I'd believe it
Uh, hey wolves did the lovecraft reference at the beginning of aquaman pissed you off as much as it did for me
Is it the beginning of aquaman because it's like he rides like a giant kathulu monster in that movie, but um
That would be an interesting question. I'm, sorry wolf's not here to answer it
Any of you guys play monster under world on steam if you or anyone's listening to the super chat wants a hunting buddy add me
His name is mark the cyborg
All one word and mark is m r a r c m a r c
We do play
Occasionally we did for we did a while ago. Yeah, we did once right?
Yeah, it was fun. Yeah, I like monster under world. I just haven't had time to play it. Um, yeah
same
Jack can't remember his own videos. He just assumes he is always right so he doesn't check his own content for inaccuracies clarity last six minutes
Yeah, it's interesting that um
Jack said it was a collection of six minutes and he refers to it as the last six minutes
Like hmm seems like you might be trying to move the goal post a little bit there
Uh rags, I picked up on the theme of your fallout 76 video. It's a broken train wreck hashtag themes
Yes, and that's why the video is undeniably good
Uh, because he has a theme in it. That's how that works. Right guys. I'm doing this correctly
Uh, I just want to see who'd win in a straw man contest between quinton major lee josef anderson h bomber guy and jack and eric
I honestly think jack destroys all of them. Oh, yeah
I don't think it's probably going to win that because while he has done straw man's he's he doesn't do them consistently
Yeah, I say that and i've only seen one. I'd say the same for josef andson josef
Is possibly the best one out of that selection
It's just that his own terms are really complicated. I don't think he sees any contradictions within them. Um
Yeah, jack's easily the worst out of that selection. Oh, yeah, it's numerous examples, too
And they're strong bad strong bad
Strong bad
Jack and eric's terrible show great job had my first day of spring semester today. It was awful because the lab equipment broke
Thank you for making slightly less suicidal rag stream so I can give you the monies
I think he is planning to stream, uh very soon because he wanted to release the video first and he wants to do one
Talking about fallout in general from what i've heard. So
It is on the way. I consider this video welsh on english racism. It's true
I commented on jack's video about him taking you out of context and he's asking for examples of him taking you out of context
When someone asks for proof even though his twitter shows he knows
He what we've shown isn't enough for jack, which means nothing is enough for jack
So i'm not sure I can't recommend anything at that point again want to reiterate leave jack alone
I actually don't even think it's worth even sending him messages that are even friendly at this point. Like just leave him alone
Yeah, um, he'll use it against you. It's all he does
Jack the strawman's lair theme theme is the gas structure the engine need both
Sure
I always get I always get confused with analogies like parts of a car that match to storytelling is um
Probably things I would change around but I I understand the point there's an anime movie called your name. That is visually stunning with decent writing
Fair enough wolf. I would forward all-star superman for a greatly written comic for western comics
Fair enough and then goku shows up and fights luke
A good indicator that themes and nebulism are hard to argue for against is that most english professors i've asked for the strength of a theme
Hmm argue for against is that most english professors I had asked for the strength of a theme
I feel like that was going somewhere and I think it's cut off or something. I'm not sure
Uh mauler is the potential response to nostalgia critics van Helsing review still a thing?
Yes, it is
We did promise the colonial marines thing and people were like that's never gonna happen
Is it it did eventually happen? These things are planned we're getting there. It's just like
Things trip us up along the way, but it's definitely still planned
Sorry to bother you is the only one I haven't seen I will watch it on their recommendation to prove how close-minded and toxic
The efap fandom is excellent
I recommend to eric the nazi nutcracker movie nutcracker 3d
There you go. People are giving me suggestions eric watch alfred omaker and discuss with wolf fair enough. Oh god
This one got deleted. I don't know if that's by a model themselves, but I can't see it
Uh mauler weren't there supposed to be other parts to that force awakens commentary. What happened? No rush or anything
Just curious. Oh, it's on the way six parts. It'll be total part two is coming next
Hey mauler. Are you gonna discuss? What's up between you and table button?
I thought it was weird him and bmas disliking you considering their content bmas is refusing
To speak to me. He really hates me
But tipper button did talk to me for about three hours and I as far as I can tell i'm on good terms with him
um
And like we were talking about earlier tipper button agrees that i've got a principled approach when it comes to ethics
while his is based on how much it'll hurt someone's feelings and
As much as I think I said something along the lines of like I understand your perspective
But it's too inconsistent and it'll cause issues. He said that um, you know, as far as he's concerned it's a matter of
You can be reasonable and take each situation as as it is and react to how much someone is being hurt by what you're saying
And stuff like that. So it was an interesting conversation and to be honest
It would have been cool to have it live, but I think i'm on good terms with him from what I know
Not b-mask though b-mask still hates me. What is a movie a miserable little pile of visuals also today would see brawly
Uh, no, and that is a reference to castlevania. Is it?
Symphony of the night. Yeah
Rags a good dog. Stop being such an asshole eric. I'd totally pay to be efap
Okay
What sorry, but what is the red car law oleganty hish? Yeah, that's from the april fool's video
I need some advil. This video is the epitome of it's easy to throw a pebble at someone
It takes conviction to shake their hand. Why is it so standard now for people to come out of the gate swinging?
I I guess it's a commentary almost on the state of
uh discourse
in a way
I don't know if it's a micro is youtube a microcosm of the state of discourse. Thanks to the internet and the
The sheer amount of misinformation and information all at the same time
Maybe that's too deep for how long we've been doing this stream
Uh, if there's two movies without contrivances of equal length, how can we measure quality of both which is better and which is worse
So there's two movies without contrivances of equal length. Um
What exactly do you mean by equal length or what is the length of a contrivance?
Because like, you know the contrivance that uh
Rose and fin end up in a prison with the one guy that can help them
Uh defeat the first order in them in the manner that they want while also getting them out of the prison
Is insane. That's like one of the biggest conveniences you can get or contrivances
There's people who will argue that phasma placed him there
specifically for that reason and it just highlights the level of like
Fandom or or like we're shipped
They'll give the film that they've invented a whole plot line that has no reference and could never even take place
How could phasma know?
That they would be in that particular cell for parking their ship wrong
And if she was aware of all this then why wouldn't they have captured them on the ship?
Beforehand when they got so close to the track all of it's just like oh my god. Stop writing. Stop writing. You're ruining it
Like you're making it even worse
um
A complicated question. I can't really give a stronger answer than that
But it's uh, it's complicated to sort of figure out a contrivance of equal length. I don't know
I leave for an hour more guests appear amazing. See we're getting through it guys
All these guests episode 23 is the infinite war infinity war of efab. Are you sure you can't sue for slander?
I'll help you pay for the lawyer
Uh, the I believe the laws with slander are literally you have to prove they knew they were lying which is like
extremely hard to do and uh
I I don't want to sue somebody because of something they said in a video about my videos
It feels like i'm trying to ruin their life as opposed to prove a point
Yeah, and and could you imagine the backlash of that? It's like it's just over youtube videos and he's going to sue
I think it would be kind of deserved
I think that people should call me out if I sued somebody over something like this as opposed to presenting how they're wrong and moving on
Yeah
How the fuck is your format like cinema sins? I don't know. I don't know why they whatever
This was a choice the tranq bit jake is make a scenario where he thinks you can be proved a hypocrite in his mind
If you criticize tranq gill screwing up and raping a mary sue you're a sexist hypocrite
So what the difference between never failing and then shooting yourself in the foot I've
By deeming both of them stupid. There's no middle ground
Like a character can't be absolutely retarded, but they also can't be a god-like creature
Um, that means maula thinks that there's no possible fucking female character even have it's like, okay
There's no middle ground
Holy shit, I worked a whole shift cleaned the house cooked in and played with my daughter and you guys are still going
Uh, you say the film is good or you get the hose again
Oh now I know that we're getting closer to the actual finish line here
Here's a few bucks for my favorite long boy maula. Why thank you
I mean you could always piece your 15 hour saga in 10 minute shorts. Watch. This is homework to prepare for your response
I'm glad it was so punctual
um
Yeah, I I always wonder how they'd react if I made 10 minute pieces for everything I do
Do you think they'd like go insane or do you think that would be something they would be?
More okay with I don't even know
It might damage the structure a bit if you were oh, I wouldn't do it personally because I think it does damage it
But i'm assuming how they'd react if they if that's the way I did it
I see
So if you split them in a way that means that they're 10 minute stories every time or 10 minute
Assessments that have a start middle finish. I don't know how I would even do that. But
I wonder if they'd still hate it. Of course. Um
I'll take your bloated content full of context and thorough analysis over this vapid mischaracterization and reductionist straw manning always
well, I appreciate that
Because I consider it the superior content to what we've saw today
All I wanted to say is that the long man bad video has broken my mind and that dust bullshit is here
What the fuck man go make an idiot box
I'm sorry, it takes so long and I gotta go back onto an editor after i've just been done editing
all day
Um, I survived both streams, baby. I'll survive more. Thanks for the laughs today guys
Also smud get on efap more love your content and appearance this year
I always feel this feel bad because it's like I wish I could have everybody every episode
Just throw it through while we just have a hundred guests. It's like yeah
Yeah, there's so many people we still need to bring on for their first episode while also bringing people back for
You know additional episodes and then changing up maybe potential combos and having the right content to cover for them
It's all very um trying to get things right sort of thing
Um, but yeah, you know, i'm glad people enjoying the guests. That's good. I think you guys add stuff
So, uh, you know high five
We spent 10 hours 10 plus hours with the uh, oh wait
I did read that one out interstellar commentary when oh that's gonna come but it's not gonna be a commentary
That's gonna be a full on critique. I have so much to say about that movie
So I just had someone tell me that the enlightenment gave us sjw's and communists
Therefore we should go back to medieval feudalism and yet this man was more intelligent than jack here
well
It happened
She is to all who survived this ordeal. I disagree with that god-awful hair
Finally dude, I just saw y'all go live about eight hours ago at lunch and y'all just finished off my ass off
We haven't finished yet
They thought we finished when uh, you reached the stream limit. Oh
Well, not quite, uh, so where do I pick up my I survived metal metal, sorry
Survive the whole eight nine hours beat saber workout
Oh, there you go
The comments are the worst so many of them boil down to it's art
You can't judge it with such vigorous autism taxin makes me sad to be gay. Oh
Holy shit. Can somebody
Can somebody actually do that like go play beat saber with uh, fucking evap and i'm pretty sure yeah
It'll just be any audio source. They can convert it into a beat saber thing
Oh, I I don't doubt that it could work. But can somebody survive?
That's a good point 10 hours playing beat saber. Holy shit. Yeah, I don't know if they could survive
I really want to try that
Uh mola says objectivity is the degree to which a standard is met
How is this not subjective as well as being that art has no rules and different people have different criteria for what is well crafted
so there are certain things that you can't get out of with storytelling because
Storytelling is a craft whether or not someone else says I disagree with that and you'd be like who created this craft
You'd be like you can't um, so how do I put this like you're trying to make I think we said this in the last defab
Like i'm gonna make a curry you get a bowl and then you start pouring in milk and they're like, oh, okay
And then you put in some apples and you're like this is a curry and like yes
This is a curry and you drop some pears in there
And you and you're just like this this seems like a cheerios like are you making a cereal and then they start pouring like liquid
Hot magma in there and you're like, okay now i'm just confused and it's like
My curry and you're like that's not a curry though
And they're like well by your subjective standard sure, but my subjective standard. This is a curry and you'd be like
right
Um, yeah, it's a science as well as an art
yeah, uh
there are standards that have been created and are in line and um
At the very least even if you thought that everything was subjective if you present your standards and remain consistent to them
That is still more useful than saying there's no rules and everything is anything
That's way better than what we've been given at least in the set video
Yeah, and uh, but uh, but again one of the most fundamental
Aspects of telling a story
Progression the reason we see the things at the beginning of a movie is usually because we need them to get to the middle of
The movie and that's usually because we need those to get to the end of the movie
If I showed you the last scene of return of the jedi
And that was it
Or if I said to you guys here's my story luke skywalker defeats darth vader
But he doesn't kill him because he sees the good in him. That is my story. You're like
Who are these people?
I'm like, what do you don't understand? That's the payoff. That's the emotional. That's all I need, right?
Do you think about the themes you're like, I don't know. What the fuck are you talking about?
so yeah, and and I understand the temptation to be like it's all subjective really though and it's like just
You've got to take it really slowly and talk about all these things through because there's loads of loads and loads of
Storytelling is huge as a fucking craft
loads of things to explore and that's that's kind of what
Efap in a way has been trying to explore casually when um
I'm still making my videos to explore it in a more coherent straightforward manner
Even though I know loads of people will be like that's coherent and straightforward. I'm like, oh, you know
I know it's long man bad, but still
um
Is it possible for you to get fat man falling on stream roller both of you make similar content but somehow also vastly disagree on
What is objective?
I don't know what
Really? Wait, you're not aware of this. He really doesn't like me
If both of you have different perspectives on what's objective that's pretty strange
Wait, so the charges that he actually agrees that objective exists, but he has a different take on it. That would be interesting
That that is yeah, i'd be curious. Um, yeah, I mean if isn't even
If he's interested we could set something up
Hey chase face if you caved into peer pressure and licked milk off maula six pack like a bro
Would you prefer chocolate strawberry or whole milk express yourself? I think you'd pick all three personally. Um
He's either eating or asleep now, but definitely all three
to prevent beings like
face face
The guy who was here before he left
Uh to prevent beings like jack and eric is the reason why some animals eat their own young that's an interesting theory
But that's not objective
Just your opinion efap trilogy movie when
Maybe we should do that efab one two and three and we can call them the um
fellowship of the fap the two faps and the return of the fap
I thought das bullshit was dead. No, he's alive. Well right here
Yeah, man typical maula just because your nation has shakespeare with stories retold for centuries means you're better than everyone talk about white power
What I mean, how do you know shakespeare identified as white?
Ah shit, i'm pretty late. I'll have to catch up later. How's everyone doing? Love y'all molly. Your voice is offensively welsh a sleepy englishman
Thank you and uh
Why don't you do you want to do you guys he said how is everybody so I demand you guys answer that question
Ah, we're awake
All right
That's that then I
I was impressed by those answers. I guess I should answer it too. I'm doing well
I'm very tired
And I will be going to sleep after this. Uh, we we get to the end of the
I'm supposed to say the efaps the super chat
This is
Brain running on fumes. Thanks for great street. Fab maula's no spark. Well, you'll know joe did
Got him. Um, but yeah, it sucks because I always talk about how i'm basically spark
And I never use emotions and and yet people say i'm no spark so offensive because like that's the only thing I ever try to be
This is a serious question for smud boy. If maul caught you staring at his supple welsh man
But but card let but card let him know your true feeling and have to play it off. What would you say?
I think you have me confused with someone else
That's a that's a simultaneously meta comment and it would actually work as an answer too
So, um, I think that was a very clever response
Uh, aren't they the proponents for emotional storytelling? How can they how can that guy actually say that cutting away from luke was a benefit?
His argument was that we knew it already
We knew he was sad. This is no point
I don't um, I don't yeah, I don't follow it
Mollio negative comments on the stalls and orderings show that you have no idea what you're talking about unsubscribed
Objectively, yeah, it killed my channel to do that
You madmen 10 hours efap loved every minute though
Oh, i'm glad efaps are like real-time strategy survival game full out 76 eat your heart out
I mean if you can survive
Oh my god, we're getting right next to like the last ones ironic. He could save others from long videos, but not himself
Go a full go for a 24 hour stream and get it under your belt
um
Adam gardner posted a bunch of milk and said because I can
Subbed to jared not quentin tarantino
I think he means quinton. I'm
J is right. I feel asleep and woke up again
Fell asleep woke up again and you are still streaming. Mm-hmm fell asleep halfway had an efap dream. Don't ask
right
Taking a cue cue from molar. I sat down and took notes on my most hated film man of steel
I have 10 pages worth of notes mostly bad and i'm honestly tempted to turn into a video wish me luck go for it
Just fucking do it man. I wish more people would talk about the subjects
They are really passionately invested in I feel like that's when we create our best work
um instead of being like
I don't know. Hey molar. I liked you take on tlj
Can you now do this movie that uh, I would like you to do and then i'm like i've never even heard of it
And they're like, yeah, but you know
Then i'm like if you see it, then you could be passionate about it
I'm not saying it's bad for them to do that
I think it's completely reasonable for them to ask the end of the story was basically going to be that if I have no
Investment in it and I don't even know anything about it
And even if I watched it and it was the same result of no passion
it's just like I could make a video but it's just not going to be anywhere near as good because
I won't care as much if you know what I mean
Yeah, it's like uh someone recommending a book and you're like, well that doesn't interest me at all
I think oh it gets better. It gets better and maybe it will and you'll keep reading it
But in most cases you'll just be like, yeah, the first chapter didn't really attract me i'm gonna stop
so
You have to have some sort of interest and passion to go through the whole thing
It's like my friends recommend to me like game of thrones i'm like, well i'm it's not really for me
It's not my thing. It's like but it gets good at season four and like I tried seasons one through three
And I didn't like it dude. I've tried so hard
If you didn't like seasons one through three then i'd say yeah, you better stop because it's not much worse, but okay
If you had to explain efap to a normal person or someone new that stumbled into the middle of it
How would you describe it?
um a wholesome podcast with
Typically four people uh watch a video and share what they think are the pros and cons of it
And then allow them to experience the memes without any context just because it would be funny
Efap has improved my life. Thanks efap crew
Kind um the streamed had lasted through my night's sleep
It's near its end. The last super chat says
Thanks for giving me something to listen to at work guys. Do you mind starting around the same time tomorrow?
I have another boring shift
There's a good chance there will be an efap now for the rest of this week and until the end of next week, so
um
Be for a while. Um, and then eric's do it with spank me welshman spank me until i'm
beautiful
And there we go folks. It is completed. That is our coverage of
eric taxon and jack saint's
complete annihilation of my uh my video
Um, I think the video speaks for self first quality
Filled with straw man's and taking out of context, which was kind of the point of this stream to show
How we put things back into context and then it damages their arguments and it makes you wonder then
Where were these things when they created it and you'd be like, well, I guess they just didn't
They just ignored it or they accidentally missed it
Whatever interpretation you want
Long man, do you feel annihilated?
Sorry, what was that? Do you feel annihilated? Yes, i'm tired
Thank god
Mola, can I draw you a for soda, please? You're welcome to do whatever you want, but I mean
Don't expect a certain reaction. I don't know what it might turn out to be. Uh
Do whatever you want sylvia silver?
What will your for soda be?
uh
Well, the the only animal we've got is the mollrus right now
Oh, yeah, that's 100 what it is to be
Um, but whatever whatever their imagination would like to use it for
uh
So yes
Thank you for anybody who who watched this far. It's insane of you to do so and obviously thanks to rags wolf j
Uh smud boy chase face and death bullshit for all
um
Arriving to do it. Um, I guess I should say
That
Do you want to do you want to talk about your channels again? Because this is the end of this part now
Why not, you know?
I feel like it makes sense
um, we'll go
Jay first because this is the actual ending now jay. This is the one we've got to really sell the channel
You know, I feel like i've overdone
the joke of
Of saying that it's garbage of it
You're gonna say it's good
It's garbage. Um, I I think that uh, one of my videos is okay. Um
And that needs to be appreciated
Go and find that one guys
Yeah, that's honest of you. That's good. If you're interested in
long not long, uh
I don't know. I i've been up for I know I I don't think you feel right now jay
if you're interested in fucking
uh
essentially shorter form responses to
critics on youtube who are
Uh, either saying some bullshit or saying something that
poke into
Uh, then that's what I do. Uh, i'll let you decide if I do it. Well or not. Uh, spoiler. I don't I'm done
Uh, go ahead
oh, uh
I've sold my cotor plot analysis and i've been taking a cue from mauler and
Do my own smud stream on saturday at 2 p.m. EST
And some people have been calling it. Uh
Uh
S frame of pause or some frames of pause. I don't know why
Sorry, I fucked up the the copy paste that that's his channel i've attached s bullshit's channel to it now as well
the other ones that um
The second post. Yeah, he um, I like I think i've said it the last time you hear about just you know
An intro from if you like my stuff to jump over to uh,
smut boy's channel would be to check out his video on patrick williams
I would imagine because you can get a um another take on that and then from there be like, you know
What i'll try out anything that he's made because it's a it's like a primer from stuff. Maybe if you enjoy for me
um
And then there's the podcast. So
Um, finally despo shit if you want to do
Whatever you'd like to do. Uh, do you want to do what would you like to say potentially pimp or just say?
Hello
Hello, um, my channel isn't really for discussion or anything
I've dabbled in a couple of reviews on games. I was particularly passionate about but the vast majority of my channel is animation based
Like gary's mod animation and I still plan to do that. I don't really think of i'll
Go into source filmmaker for much
Uh, but I haven't uploaded anything in a few years now
So don't sub until i've stopped being a fucking pussy and uploaded something. So, uh
But if you want to check it out if you haven't if you think do you want animations funny to you?
Give it a look, but you're not going to find a whole lot of discussion there. So it's
It's
But it is what it is. I will eventually upload when I stop being a pansy. All right
And I think that's everything I hesitate to say it
like
There are some memes in the chat
But I believe we haven't looked at
Memes yeah, let's go through all the memes right now all the videos. Let's do it. I mean memes in twitter
Oh, there is something on twitter. There is there's long man bad, of course
I put some memes in the discord chat
The discord chat
Oh, right, okay, I can grab some of these all right everyone talk about something random
So it makes it look like i'm not wasting time trying to collect these things
Well, I think there was a gentleman who wanted to ask mauler to
Edit one of his stories. I'd be happy to do that. If anyone has any stories
They're interested in getting published or curious about how to do so on amazon
I'd be happy to help out i'd be happy to edit get you going with that
Get you an editor
Uh, i've been helping some people out in my channel as well with that. So it's going okay for them
So yeah anyone who has any scripts or manuscripts, uh, like me look at i'd be happy to
I have one of those
Oh really well I say have um, I have a plot overview at this point
Oh, well i'd be happy to look at it if you got it
That would be absolutely lovely. Okay, someone just give a a super chat for mauler and ask me about cotor 2
Um, I I do agree cotor 2 is better than one
Um better actual better themes believe it or not
But uh, but cray is actually one of the best characters in video gaming I would say and she's female
So it uh, it works out if you're left leaning or right leaning. I don't really care
But it is really that good. It's made by uh, the creators of um,
Fallout so chris avallon or the original fallout chris avallon was one of the storytellers for there
And he's an excellent job and pretty much
Um, that is the definitive star wars game
In terms of storytelling in terms of lore of star wars. So if you love
Anything in the star wars lore or the star wars movies
You should directly head over to playing the original bi-war game and then the obsidian game
So cotor one and two
Uh, so there's a couple of of these I guess we got first one. Um
Am I missing context for this one? What's with the rhino? Who's like, um, a blob of green? What's what's happened?
It was right at the beginning of the stream when we were talking about how I had my book and then we talked about a boneless rhino
Oh, I remember now
I like that there's an erect hand flaccid version of this
That's funny. That's good. Yeah
and we've got
A drawing that if this was drawn up quickly, I mean I think quickly over 12, however hours
of
JJ bangs decent gonna be very messy me no watching by
I think that says trooper tk on discord. Um
But yeah, I I appreciate your work
You'll join very rough
Then
The adorable artists who's made a few of these before but so
maula
face
Mon mothma
clothing and mothra as a back
Adorable how much video avatar
I was from that's from flawless
Nick, that's that's pretty it really is they make a lot of very cute little uh
There's like one meme per stream from what I can tell so far
As well, I mean all of these all the people making these memes
Uh, but they they feel like memes a lot of them this one
uh
the
Mall mothna one actually seems like something that you would see
Made just for artistic purposes. Yeah. Yeah, they're really high quality. Some of these amazing. Um
some of the some of the efap meme videos like
Surprise us we're just like wow, you must have taken a long time to pick this and it's all for the sake of memes
um
Which is wonderful. But yeah
The uh, the log man bad. It's this critique baller. It's just this tentacle monster
It's it's I think it's jack sleeping. It's like having nightmares about the log man
You see this is a physical notebook. It's in so I really like the idea that
Uh, this notebook is gonna get like just put away somewhere and it's gonna stay there for 10 20 years
Later someone's gonna find it and look at this and go
What the fuck archaeologists will dig it up one day
This will be the only surviving artifact of of our culture after the apocalypse
What does it mean study study this to
Will become god
Um, and yeah, i'm happy to say that is the complete
Double efap is we we nearly reached on the second part a length that would be considered a full efap
It's just 20 minutes away. So
uh
And that puts us
We're half an hour away from the full 12 hours or at least we didn't start exactly today
So it's not necessarily but I think we reached 11 hours. I think that's probably safe to say
Longest efap in history you out you did beat the eight hour one from rags and wolf jay
So me and you are the longest efappers. How about that?
I survived
Um, but yeah, I didn't I literally had to stop twice to have a lie down one of which was on the floor
He's the one who made the uh
It's I think he said his video is star of the last jedi like is the
One of the biggest cinematic failures in history or something like that
I've seen that it's a very amusing video. It's like 20 minutes of just rapid fire arguments about how awful the film is
It's the kind of thing i'd recommend if you wanted the quick version of like my five hours
Basically, it's like go for it because it's like delivered quite funny. But hello vita. Um, we've been
The whole thing about guests we've just been talking about uh, you're you're definitely in consideration to be coming on here
I don't know if you're interested or not. I but but we're getting around to it. I like your video. It's very amusing
Um, but this is literally the end of the stream. We've been going for uh, just over 11 hours. I believe
Nice to see you. But yes, uh, I suppose it's time to say goodbye folks
Thank you very much for all of the generous donations and the very kind
Comments of support as well as just meeting along with us. It's very entertaining for us as well as um
Creating content for um for the channel and stuff. So, um
again
If anybody would still be listening at this point who really hates the channel, I just be like
The idea for these streams was to try and expose what uh, we were talking about. Let me say we're taking out of context
We did it for wolf free fap in general and for my videos like three different times
I don't know what else I can do at that point. Uh, so the people who are concerned about me responding to criticism through efap
It's like yeah, well, we're not going to do it all the time. But um, it should be down for a while now
I wouldn't be surprised if jack made a follow-up video or something of the kind and if it's the kind of shit where it's like
um
You don't understand anything that I meant and all of these things weren't taken out of context because blah blah blah
It's just be like we'll probably just not respond
As we said at the beginning
11 hours ago
There were a couple of videos that have been made that we've checked out and been like this is too bad to explore
There's nothing to work with here. So again, hopefully that's reassurance. Um
The next efap, I don't know what it's going to be about. I don't know who's guessing and there's more efap gaming on the way. So, um
Fun ahead, I suppose
Fun times
But yeah, let's do the arrival debate literally now we couldn't that could be the next day
Could we do that jay becomes like practically a fucking tertiary member of efap at that point. It's like i'm
But yeah, we do want to do that eventually too you have to set up your podcast before we can do that, right
Sure. Yeah, so we don't rush that we gotta get that going first. Um
But yeah, uh, thank you all for for coming and for all the guests and
I have to say special thanks to jay for being able to make it for this long. It's kind of ridiculous
I shouldn't have done that
And
That's I I can't I don't know how long I should say goodbye before I just end stream
So i'm gonna i'm gonna do it now guys. It's been fun and I will see you around
Goodbye
Goodbye everyone
